Wednesday, January 28, 1987-FHE DAVIDSONIAN

7Just Words

Tim Brown

Overlook the fact that he supports monetarily the
Contras in Nicaragua, and you can't help but to like H.
Ross Perot. He is one of the last of a disappearing breed
of corporate executives. identifiable by their straightfor-
ward speech with which they reveal their heart-felt con-
victions.

Ever since he was old enough to lasso the idea of de-
veloping employee-employer relations, the Texan Perot
has used barbed words to express his strongest convic-
tion: A company will never be successful, no matter
how much technology it has, unless it makes good use of
its most valuable resource — its people. Last month
General Motors and its tipsy-minded executives.booted
Perot, his straightforward speech, and his conviction out
the back door of the GM saloon.

With $1000 cash and the million-dollar_idea that
people need help using computers, Perot built Elec-
tronic Data Systems (EDS). In 1984 Roger Smith, chair-
man of General Motors, purchased EDS and hired Perot
because he thought EDS’s computer expertise, Perot’s
unbridled entrepreneurial energy, and Perot’s unbroken
_| fighting spirit would-help GM win car wars. This time,

_ Smith, a smart shopper but a naive buckaroo, got more
than he bargained for.

Smith would fail to bridle Perot’s entrepreneurial
energy and would fail to break Perot’s fighting: spirit.

Perot galloped at full speed.into his new job at GM.
Immediately he applied his energy and spirit to allow
GM to make better use of its people. He showed workers
at different levels the same respect, listened attentively
to workers’ ideas. involved workers in problem solving.

He set out to shatter the corporate hierarchy — arguing
that titles are useless and that actions are what count —

and set out to evaporate perks, which he believes insu-
late corporate executives from the rest of the work force.
Practicing what he passionately preached, Perot drove
his own car, paid for his own office supplies and office
furniture, answered his own phone, ate lunch and ming-
led with assembly-line workers.

Irritated by Perot’s actions, Smith argued — and
not all that unreasonably — that Perot’s philosophy
concerning the development of employee-employer re-
lations might work at EDS, but:not at a mammoth-sized
corporation such as GM. Smith's argument fell on
Perot's deaf ears, and Smith's growing irritation, which
Perot-expected, did not inhibit but inspired Perot to con-

tinue acting upon his philosophy. Perot explains, “lama

grain of sand that irritates the oyster (the corporation or
corporation director] until it produces a pearl.” Maybe
Smith and Smith’s.physician mistook an irritating grain
of sand for an ulcer.

One of Perot’s notable actions and two of his notable

demands made notable fissures in Smith's steam valves.
Last summer, Perot was being interviewed on TV about
one of the original copies of the Magna Charta he had
purchased recently. Midway through one of the intervie-
wer's many questions, Perot, decided it was time for a
commercial break. He interrupted the interviewer, made
positive comments about the T-type Buick, and encour-
aged the interviewer, the cameraman, and other network
people to “come out and drive it on the test track.”
Perot’s commercial made Smith’s blood pressure rise

quicker than mercury. Why? Perot had not received”

commercial authorization from GM directors. Besides,
as GM’s directors whimpered, “Roger Smith ought to be
the one who test drives the T-type Buick.”

Usually the prisoner about to be executed is allowed

A working man’s executive

one last demand — say, a phone call to Mom or to Pizza
Hut: Well, before his career with GM was terminated by
Smith and the GM directors, Perot managed to make
two demands. He demanded that GM pay EDS stoc-
kholders the profits it promised to pay them to avoid a
real securities-law problem. Also, Perot demanded that
GM's management should not receive annual bonuses in
1986 since GM had just closed 11 plants and laid off
30,000 workers. Perot painted GM's situation in patrio-
tic colors: “When a company that is laying off workers
pays bonuses, it’s as though the generals at Valley Forge
had. bought new uniforms for themselves, when the
troops were fighting in the snow barefooted.”

Smith and the directors of GM voted to pay Perot
$700 million to shut up and get out. Perot has given up
his 11 million shares of GM stock and has crossed his
heart and hoped to die if he should criticize GM in public
ever again. If he does criticize GM in public, he can be
fined $7.5 million.

The son of a very prominent man was a senior cadet
at the Naval Academy-and was caught stealing. The __
Naval Academy's honor committee found him guilty .
and decided he should be expelled. But there was much
political pressure on the academy to sail and let sail.
Senior cadet Perot threatened to resign as chairman of
the honor committee and as president of his class if the
guilty cadet were not expelled. By graduation time the
senior class was less one cadet. And Perot graduated
with his class.

Perot is willing to pay to say what he fecls is right
and what he feels ought to be heard. Seven hundred mil-
lion dollars divided by $7.5 million equals roughly 93

barbed criticisms of GM.

Brown is Opinions Editor of The Davidsonian

WINTER SPRING SUMMER FALL

Scholarships Available for

Superior Students to Study and

in LONDON and
WASHINGTON

Students may earn up to six semester credits (three in
Summer) in Academic internships with added credits
for courses in Politics, Journalism, Economics, Law

Sadler Square-next to Food Lion

STUDENTS: 10% all meals with student ID
Sun-Thurs. only

and International Relations.
Credits are transferred through

Hampden-Sydney College, founded in Virginia by

James Madison in 1776.

—STUDY AT OXFORD

Students may also apply to study for one or
two terms at several colleges of Oxford University.

MON & WED: Pitchers of Beer $3.25

plus $1.00 off pizza FOR MORE INFORMATION, PLEASE WRITE TO:
Come watch your favorite sports Was

hington International Studies Center
on our wide screen TK.

Room 713A, 901 Sixth Street, S.W.
Washington, DC 20024

/ EO/AA

Sandwiches ‘Sb &
Piza * Drinks —
Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 pm.

Fri. and Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sunday 4:30 p.m. - 10:00 p.m.

