Wednesday, April 15, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Just Words

‘Ss
Tim £-

Brown

Consider Congress a kitchen sink. Congressmen
gather round this kitchen sink to drop government ex-
penditures down its drainpipe. As the government ex-
penditures swirl down the drainpipe, they enter a seem-
ingly endless network of tributary pipes, each of which
tributary pipes leads to a specific governmental pro-

gram.
Currently, the drain pipe of this nation’s kitchen sink

that ought to swirl down the tributary pipes of social pro-
grams, such as education, environmental protection,
public housing, and agriculture, swirl down the tribut-
ary pipe of the defense program instead. This problem
requires the skills of political. plumbers, men and
women who have dedicated their waking hours to,
among other political-social matters, figuring how to
unclog the drainpipe of this nation’s kitchen sink. Politi-
cal plumbers — armed with bottles of Liquid Drano,
plungers, and innovative ideas — are in short supply.
However, one may be found in Phoenix, Arizona. His
name is Eugene G. Flagell. And if folks in Arizona have
any wits about them, they’! gather together to buy hima
congressional seat in 1988.

If Arizonians bought Flagell a congressional seat, he
would brandish his bottle of Liquid Drano and his
plunger to decrease military expenditures drastically

Staying Here This Weekend?
Dont Miss ALFRED HITCHOOCKS

Sat. 8:00, Su. 7 Love Auditorium 1.50
Presented by CINEMA CLASSICS

corner of Hwy. 115 & Faith Rd.

(3 Miles North of Davidson College)

Mon., Tues., Wed.- 16

HAIRCUT & STYLE
$5.00

(Mole or Femole)

We

is Clogged in such a way that government expenditures |

Taking Appointments
Thurs., Fri., Sat.- 11-6

~ CHILDREN’ HAIRCUT & STYLE..... $3.00

PERMANENT WAVE |
start at $25.9)

Flaeell the plumber has America’s solutions

and to pipe the excess to social programs. Also, he
would share his innovative ideas with other con-
gressmen in order that; together, they might raise addi-
tional revenue to spend on social programs.

Flagell would be the first to admit that he is more a
plumber than a politician. He supports himself and his
family by fixing and welding pipes for immodest sums
of money. He does not look or sound much like a mod-
ern American politician; he sports a caterpillar mus-
tache, inelegant eyeglasses, and a very thin Tug atop his
pate. Mothers surely would not queue to have Flagell
kiss their babies.,

Politics is the Baskin Robbins of flavorful rhetori-
cians, Flagell, whose speech’ is as flavorful as water,
would never be voted flavor of the week by voters who
scream regularly for the likes of Mario Cuomo and Jesse
Jackson.

If the listener is allergic to innovative ideas, listen-
ing to Flagell speak is as exciting as a completed sneeze.

_ faphic magazines and TV networks that profit from mar-

the use of some government services. Lobbyists could
be charged a gargantuan fee for using Congress. Super-
califragilisticexpialidocious! That innovative idea is
pleasingly atrocious. Politicians who appear with the
president in TV commercials could be charged a fee.
This way, some presidents could earn their keep. And
the media could be charged for using stories about the
federal government. The media, says Flagell, are
businesses that receive: all of their raw resources —
summits, drug busts, political speeches, politicians’
bloopers, military raids, amendments, political scan-
dals — for free.

Provocatively, Flagell suggests that the federal gov-
ernment could charge certain people for the use of cer-
tain constitutional rights in certain circumstances. He
states: “Nazis, white supremacists, and other weird
characters can be charged a fee for using the right of free
speech.” Add to this list of social blemishes pornog-

Flagell has many innovative ideas as to how the govern-
ment could raise revenue to spend on social programs.
Flagell advertises his idea that the federal govern-
ment has an enormous amount of potential advertising
space, a resource on which it should capitalize. Com-
panies, he explains, would pay handsome sums to have
their logos appear on 22-cent stamps. The images of
Washington, Lincoln, and Grant could be replaced by
images of “Iacocca selling cars, Redenbacher selling
popcorn, and Palmer driving for Hertz.” The federal
government’s cars and trucks, which travel down city

streets at the blazing speed of 35 mph, could be painted.

with companies’ patches and emblems like race cars.
The blank top margin of the 1040 form could be filled
with advertisements for tax preparers, attorneys, and
tax-free mutual funds. Flagell imagines inillions of tax-
payers with taxed temperaments flipping to the page of
the 1040 form that contains an ad for H&R Block.

The federal government could charge individuals for

“| GOT A POSTCARD FROM MIAMI’
“| GOT A POSTCARD FROM TEXAS”
“| GOT A POSTCARD FROM HELL!”

“Greetings From Hell’, Series 1, the: best
of the Life in Hell comic strips from the last five
years now in postcard and notecard form.

e Postcards — 16 designs for $40

e Notecards
envelopes included (like a greeting card but
you write the messace inside}
L. Barry / M. Groening ‘87 Calendar
now $4 (includes P & H)! Collector's item!

Send check or money order to:

keting sensualism and overworking euphemisms by
calling their products art. - “~

Offices of the Senate 4nd House of Representatives
could be sold at a public auction to the highest bidders.
which possibility some fear materialized many elec-
tions, many auctions, ago. Flagell says, “The democra-
tic process wastes a great deal of money. Elections havc
become competitions in spénding.” Millions of dollars
received by political parties, political-action commit-
tees, TV and radio networks, production companies,
and public-relations agencies could be snatched by the
federal government.

Whether Flagell will ever be able, financially, to di-
vert his attention from Arizonians’ kitchen sinks to this
nation’s kitchen sink is uncertain. Maybe, Arizonians
will realize that this nation’s sink is most in need of re-
pair and will go digging for money so that their state’s
political plumber might be flushed with victory at the
public auction in 1988.

ive or
ry

a
¢
r

|

iy
'

it
YG I t

fe
vere

iN

get

WA
ee

ne

tilt
i
‘a
TaN
| ie

R

inl

— 16 designs for $18 with

Life In Hell
Attn: Order Dept.

P.O. Box 36E64 '

L.A., CA 90036

