12

- Friday, April 24, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

In defense of the Mets

BY BRUCE SARKISIAN

The New York Mets, by virtue of
their on-the-field heroics and - off-the-
field controversies, are arguably the most
talked about team in ‘baseball. Being a
Mets’ fan at Davidson is not often very
blissful. It’s definitely not easy to be ina
room watching them on television and
having ten other people rooting for the
other team whether it is the St. Louis Car-
dinals or the Russian National téam.
Often it can be very lonely, but having a
World Series champion team on your
side sure makes things a lot easier.

Am I gloating? Yes, but my purpose
in writing this article is not to proclaim
from the rooftops how great the Mets are.
It is just to inform you that the Mets are
not a bunch of obnoxious, hateable show-
boats. On the contrary, they take their
curtain calls to please the fans, not to

boost their own egos. Take Gary Carter
for instance. He is hated by nearly every-
one who is not a Mets fan, and by most
opposing players. They accuse him of

* gloating’ “and waving defeat in other

teams’ faces. But he does that because he
loves the game and because he loves his
fans. For example, in a game against the
Braves at Shea this season, he made an
excellent play and prevented a run from
scoring. He then ran off the field holding
the ball aloft and with a wide grin on his
face. He didn’t do that to gloat, he did it
because he knew he saved the team from
a possible defeat, and because he knew
the fans loved him. for it.
The curtain calls after home runs at

‘Shea are much the same. What is the mat-

ter with taking. a bow before 55,000
standing, cheering fans? If that is done at
the theater or at a concert after a virtuoso

performance it is all right. So why not at a
baseball park? The players are perfor-
mers too. The other team may feel like
they are getting defeat rubbed in their
face, but they have a home field too.
Admittedly, the past year has shown
the Mets off-the-field conduct to be less
than exemplary. Dwight Gooden is case
in point. First, we find out that he has an
illegitimate son, and that he will not be
getting married. Then he doesn’t show up
for the ticker tape parade after the World
Series victory. Finally he tests positive
for drugs. Many people received the
news with joy, but I think it is one of the
saddest news stories of the year. A
pitcher so good and so young seems too
good to be true. But Gooden was spoiled.
He made too much money too fast and
got in with the wrong crowd. The drug
scandal does not tell the world that

Gooden is a bad.person, just that he was
too young and too weak to handle his

’ phenomenal success. J

Before this starts to sound too
preachy, my point is that the Mets are no
different from anyone else. Give any
twenty-year-old with a high school edu-
cation that much money and see what
happens. Dwight GOoden got in trouble '
because he is human, not because-he is a
Met. It is what the Mets do on the field
that makes me a fan. About a month ago,
I tried to get a personalized license from
the state of North Carolina that said “Go
Mets.” I was informed however that all
the choices with Mets on them were al-

- ready taken. So take heart fellow Mets

fans, we are not so few in number, and no
matter what Ted Turner says, we are

' “America’s Team.”

UNITED
CAROLINA

BANK

uch

_ | Downtown Davidson

MON—THURS. 9-5

Fri. 9-6

corner of Hwy. 115 & Faith Rd.

(3 Miles North of Davidson College}

Taking Appointments

Mon., Tues., Wed.- 14

Thurs., Fri.,

CHILDREN’ HAIRCUT & STYLE

HAIRCUT & STYLE
(Mele or be) ae, $5.00

§ Call 892-7952 or 892- 8894

PERMANENT WAVE
Start at $25.00

Sign up for Army ROTC Basic ¢
Camp. You'll get six weeks of y
challenges that can build up your - ¢
leadership skills as well as your
body. You'll also get almost $700.
But hurry. This summer may be
your last chance to graduate from \
college with a degree and an officers 4
commission. Be all you can be. 4
See your Professor of Military \ ,

Science for details.
See Cpt. David Strong in Bak Basement
892-2000 Ext 170 a

“Let us be your connection to great a

12 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25 16 in. with 3 toppings- 977 75

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 pm
Fri. and Sat. 11:00 aan, - 11:00 p.m.

Sunday 4:30 pan. -
892- 9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS

11:00 pm.

