Friday, February 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN = ——— 15

Mad dog Buchanan scares both left and right

Tim Brown

4

On January 21, 1987, Republicans dropped down on
their knees and thanked their Creator. On that joyous
day, Pat Buchanan proclaimed that he would not run for
the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. But
many stoics caught in the midst of the Republicans’ re-
joicing wonder why the Republicans had feared Bucha-
nan so.

One can learn a lot about a gentleman by listening to
the words he speaks and’ the company he keeps. This
rule of thumb applies to Pat Buchanan even as his
gentlemanliness grows evermore questionable. Bucha-
nan slanders liberals, communists and the media, and
pals with Jesse Helms and the specter of Joseph McCar-
thy. What many reasonable Republicans — which
phrase is fast becoming an oxymoron — feared until
January 21 was that Buchanan, 48, suffers from midlife _
restlessness and was going to share his restlessness with
them by running for the Republican presidential nomi-
nation in 1988.

Considering that Buchanan has aspired to make a
living by using words well, it’s surprising that he is not

cwaiting silently in the unemployment lines. He has been
a columnist, a talk-show celebrity, and a speechmaker
for Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan. He runs
Reagan’s speechmaking and media operations.

A man’s style is the man. Buchanan’s style has been
described as that of a beer-guzzler, a brass-knuckles ex-
journalist, a barking bulldog. He displays little knowl-
edge of and little appreciation for subtlety and sensitiv-
ity in language. His intention is not to encourage the
reader or listener to think and to evaluate, but to learn by
rote. He enjoys alliteration and metaphors excessively,

and employs these literary devices provocatively.

-_ In 1969, he brandished an alarming lack of subtlety,
sensitivity, and sensibility, when he called Dr. Martin
Luther King Jr. “a fraud, a demagogie, and the devil in-
camate.” Again, in May 1983, he displayed
shamelessly the year-round vacancies in his heart and
mind when he said, “The poor homosexuals. They have
declared war upon nature, and now nature is exacting an
awful retribution. AIDS.” And during the last twel-
vemonth, he has praised repeatedly McCarthy as a di-
rectly positive influence in American history, and has
stated, “McCarthy was a credit to himself.”

Buchanan can neither use nor enjoy alliteration and
metaphors in moderation. He has referred to the writers
of the Washington Post and Samuel Donaldson as “‘ib-
eral carping critics.” He says of Democrats: They “‘cry
crocodile tears on TV but they don’t fool us. They resent
Reagan because he stole America from them. They want
to kill SDI and leave Nicaragua to the Soviet Empire.”

Buchanan had not displayed a proven ability to raise
money, had no national network of supporters, and had

-no campaign experience. The last time he campaigned

was in 1959, when he ran for an office in a social club at
Georgetown University. Buchanan, it would seem,
could not have meet the traditional criteria for becoming
a viable presidential candidate.

But, then, Buchanan really did not expect to win the
Republican nomination and would have lost no sleep if
he had been defeated. He would have been willing to run
just in order to shake the political landscape in 1988. It
was precisely this willingness of Buchanan that caused
many Republicans to sit worrying by day and to lie tos-
sing by night — until that joyous January day.

Prior to his announcement on January 21, Buchanan
led a pep rally in Lafayette Park in Washington D.C. for
Ronald Reagan, a cheerleader whose fiery spirit has
been squelched by the dampening Iran scam. Using a
microphone in place of a megaphone, Buchanan

Continued from page 14

any member of the opposite sex here at
Davidson?

Point 3. Sex sells. Since we began this
approach to advertising we have sold 400
hotdogs at each sale for a profit of $150
each night. That comes to over $1000. At
least 15-20 percent of our sales are to
females.

Point 4. What points 1-3 add up to is
that I’m not sorry for the signs I made: they
were funny, effective and not aimed to
criticize or demean anyone or anything. I
am sorry for those who found our signs to be
directed at them personally. We never
wrote, and I quote from the article by Sara
Smith, “And so I gave her my Pike Dog be-
tween the buns.” Thé sign read, “A good
dog is made better when placed between a
warn bun.” There was no gender implied.

There was no “her” or “my” in the state-
ment. Still, people take it as a “sexist com-
ment.” How do you know I wasn’t implying
homosexuality? Is it still sexist then? What
if I implied sodomy? Is it then, Say,
animalist? I only wrote it to make people
grin and remember Pike Dogs and make it
mean whatever they want, not make it out
as a personal comment to them. The signs
are in no way intended to make light of
sexism or pornography or rape. I do not be-
lieve that the signs we made in anyway indi-
cated that we make light of these problems.
I find these problems just as disgusting as
anyone.

Point last. What say we just end this
silly little quibble? If you gave any more
complaints, direct them not to the campus
or to Pika. Instead, direct them to me, Cap-
tain Pike Dog.

Josh Budde

MON—THURS. 9-5

cheered on Reagan and booed Reagan's opponents. His
style remaining consistent, Buchanan force-fed the au-
dience of over 300.Reaganites. He stated that liberals,
communists, and the media use the Iran crisis in such a
way as to bring down Reagan, and inadvertently this na-
tion. He beseeched the audience to “rally round Ron”
and to save the nation. As Buchanan descended the
podium and made is way out of the park, he floated in a
sea of unwavering support. The audience yelled, “I hope
you run, Pat, in 1988. God bless you, Pat. I’m with you
in 1988, Pat.” Buchanan exited, yelling “Keep it up, I
love it.” George Bush probably glanced out a window of
the White House and, upon seeing Buchanan, wondered
if Buchanan might be a sideshow or a main distraction in
the Republican presidential nomination in 1988. Since
January 21, Bush wonders no longer, but still has a won-
dering look on his face.

Many Republicans had feared that if Buchanan had
entered the lengthening queue of aspirants for the Re-
publican presidential nomination, he would have
snatched large amounts of coverage from the media and

large amounts of money from conservative campaign
contributors, of which contributors Jesse Helms would —

have been one. Helms and his campaign fundraisers al-
ready had gotten cozy with Buchanan. Says one of Jack
Kemp’s aids, “Buchanan could have split the right and
could have let George Bush or Bob Dole walk away with
it.”

A journalist quips, “Who would have Keen Bucha-
nan’s running mate.” To which Sandy Grady, a syndi-
cated columnist, responds, ““A Doberman pinscher.”
Arf, arf, arf. Enough unruly fun, my ribs hurt. In the
dog-eat-dog world -that is politics, Buchanan would
have had little trouble finding a blindly loyal running
mate who desired nothing more than to bark at and roll
over liberals, communists, and the media.

Brown is another liberal jounalist

Fri. 9-6

tA A IS A ALA AA AAD ALD ADL APAADASALAAD A ALAA A ASAD ADS ofS

WEATE Call for Apt.

; S ATERS Sat 8-1 Mon-Fri 9-5
A new shipment for Spring
just arrived--and in
K time for Spring Break

Nuvalanum Lights
Wy it
>)

I

T & R TANNING SALON

202 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON, N.C. 28036
MILDRED WATTS BUS: (704) 892-3907

collegiate apparel
™ for Men and Women

/\ fil

Lyi

Spring Break 19.95

