Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

21

Tositor not to sit, that is the question

——— Peter Mangone-———_—_——

During the past week the people of Davidson College
and community were given a rare opportunity to see and
hear two of the most famous speakers that have come to this
campus in the past two years, Jeane Kirkpatrick and Ar-
kady Shevchenko. Yet, I was not impressed at all by the
way either’s speech turned out. I am not talking about the
content of each person’s talk or how the members of the au-
dience acted. Instead I was extremely angered with the de-
cision to hold both of the events in the Chamber's Gallery.

For those of you who did not attend either of the events,
let me inform you of the seating arrangements. Those
people who arrived early sat in one of the few hundred seats
on the floor of the Gallery (these, of course, were all filled
by the start of the speech). On the other hand, those who ar-
rived five minutes beforehand or on time had the option to
either sit on the floor or stand during the entire talk (some
people even had to stand in the hallway outside).

I would have no qualms with this situation if the Gallery

’ was the only place either of these events could have been
held, yet I do not understand why Love Auditorium was not
used. If this had been the case then all.those who chose to
attend would have had an equal opportunity to listen to and
learn from the remarks of both speakers.

What are the reasons behind this insane decision to
pack as many people as possible into the gallery and
thereby severly diminish the overall quality and educa-
tional value of these speakers’? In my opinion, there are

Continued from page 20 —

only a few explanations for this, and only one adequately
justifies the shortsighted and ridiculous nature of this deci-
sion.

1. Love Auditorium is .a health hazard and was con-
demned by the authorities. Although I must admit this is an
adequate reason for the decision that was made, I think it is
highly unlikély such a situation exists.

2. Love Auditorium was being used during each of the
events. I am not sure whether it was occupied last Friday,
but I do know that Wednesday night during Shevchenko’s
speech I went up to the auditorium and found it empty and
dark. If somebody was using it, they were doing so in a
very quiet and invisible way. .

3. Those making the decision did not foresee such a
great turnout of people. I can accept this to support the deci-
sion concerning where Jeane Kirkpatrick would speak be-
cause of the many students heading off in the early after-
noon (if not late morning) to soak up some sun and fun at
the beach.-Yet Arkady Shevchenko’s speech was held ona
Wednesday night at 8:00, not exactly the prime time for
partying and definitely not the night before many papers are
due (most are due either this Friday or next week).

This fact along with an advertising campaign that lasted
two weeks (one of the largest I’ve ever seen for a speaker at
Davidson), clearly should have indicated the good possibil-
ity for a large crowd. Fortunately and unfortunately, this is
exactly what happened on Wednesday night. Although it
was nice to see many people come hear Shevchenko speak,
at least 100 had to sit on the floor or stand in the doorway
and hall just to see him (let alone hear him adequately
enough to understand his message).

4. Those making the decision wanted to insure a packed
house for each speaker. I can somewhat understand the

Laundry provides $270.00 ($340.00 in ’87-

take a long look at their efforts and decide if
the attitudes that they are adopting are truly
for the good of those of us who work and
study here. The beauty of Davidson is that it
offers a unique environment in which to
learn. The value given to teaching and ser-
vice here this institution’s greatest strength.
with their decision, the administration has
set a precedent that denies the importance of
those qualities.

°88) worth of service per student per year,
this unfair assessment should be removed or
made optional.

Sincerely,

Ruth M. Tatsapaugh

Reoonsider

Dear Dean Williams:

Michael Jarmon ’88
English Knowles ’90
Frank Lord ’89

Laundry

Dear Editor:

T object strenuously to the exorbitant fee

Last Saturday afternoon I learned of
your decision to deny tenure to Dr. John En-
_gell. I understand that before making this
decision you carefully considered evalua-
tions of Dr. Engell from Davidson students
and faculty members and from many other
individuals who are familiar with his work;
I know that you did not make this decision

that subsidizes the Davidson College Laun-
dry. This levy is an anachronism, reverting
to the days when Davidson students did not
have access to washing machines in their
dorms or laundromats. It adds to the already
high cost of a Davidson education.

’ For nearly three years my daughter has
done her own laundry because of the D.C.
Laundry’s shrinking her clothes. This has
been a problem with other students’ gar-

lightly. Nevertheless, I must protest your

action.

In a recent conversation with me, Dr.
Kuykendall outlined three aspects of a pro-
fessor’s performance which you consider
when making a tenure decision: teaching
ability, community service, and publica-
tions. I have not read any of Dr. Engell’s
creative or critical work, nor am I familiar

ments also. A freshman’s mother had to re-
dlace all his jeans at Christmas time for this
‘eason. Other students have had this prob-
lem. It is not an isolated incident. |

with his role in the davidson community
outside of the College; I know him as a
teacher and role model for students. In these
capacities I find him virtually unsurpassed
among his fellow members of the English

Trem OTT dS

‘

I would be glad to pay the necessary
"quarters to operate a dorm wash machine.
During the past three months my daughter
has used those machines six times. She has
taken nothing to the D.C. Laundry. At my
neighborhood laundry this would cost
$6.00-$9.00, depending on drying time. At
———— even $3.00 per week times a maximum of-
36 weeks in the college year, the cost would
be $108.00, far less than the $270.00 now
charged and the $340.00 to be levied next
school year. . 4
By being forced to pay the D.C. Laun-
dry, we parents are subsidizing an inferior
service which costs far too much, and are
prevented from using more reasonably-
priced and better quality laundries. To add
insult to injury, the cost of this “service” is
increasing. If we must pay for this laundry,
it should replace all clothes that it renders
unfit for the owner's wear.
Unless it can be shown that the D.C.

department and among Davidson profes-
sors in general.

I studied 19th Century American fiction
under Dr. Engell during the fall of my

junior year. This class, along with Dr. Nel-'

son’s English 104, convinced me to declare
my major in English. Dr. Engell showed me
how literature could teach me truths not
only about life but also about myself. He
taught: me how literature intergrates with
life and compelled me to welcome it as an

important guiding force. Each day in class

his excitement about literature and about
living a literary life filled the room. He
treated each person in the class not only as a
student, but also as a resource, as someone
from whom he could learn. He listened
attentively to each student’s comments or
questions and then expanded on his or her
ideas to reach incredible new insights. He

wasn’t merely using students’ comments to _

lead into a discussion of old ideas; his ¢ crea-

reasoning behind Ahis Hing of thought. Most of us do not
want the college to look bad in the eyes of these guests, and
if only 100 students show up for a speaker in Love Au-
ditorium, it would greatly embarass the college as well as
make the speaker feel uncomfortable talking to an empty
auditorium. Yet for speakers such as Jeane Kirkpatrick and
Arkady Shevchenko one can easily forsee at least 500 to
700 people coming if not more. Nevertheless some might
reply, Love Auditorium still would only be half-full. To
those who make this statement, I ask you what is the .
number one purpose behind bringing these speakers to
Davidson College? Is it publicity for the school? I hope not.
Instead the ultimate purpose is for the students, faculty, ad-
ministration, and other members of the community to get
the opportunity to hear these guest speakers so that they can
become more educated about the world around them. This
is the true purpose behind the Dean Rusk Program, and it is
with this goal in mind that Davidson College provides us
with speakers from around the world.

I do not wish to mislead people into thinking that I am
against how the entire speaker program works. I have been
to many other speaker forums, and each one of those ran
smoothly and was enjoyable. Yet I cannot sit back and re-
main mute about the poor decision that was made concern-
ing these last two events. It is unfortunate that these last two
exciting opportunities for learning at Davidson College
were, for no apparent reason, marred by too little seating. 1
can only ask that the next time a famous speaker like Jeane
Kirkpatrick or Arkady Shevchenko accepts an invitation to
speak here, those planning the event remember the people
who attended and were forced to sit on the floor or stand in
the hallway. I hope this memory leads them to a more pru-
dent decision than the ones made in the last week. _

tive mind was combining and comparing
and connecting ideas in new ways right be-
fore our eyes, and the results as well as the
process were astounding to witness.

I am a senior English major, and I also
participated in Senior Colloquium (English
495) with Dr. Engell. once again his
creativity and knowledge in his field daz-
zled me. His caring and perceptive help out-
side of class also led me to expect even
more of myself as a student and critic of lit-
erature and showed me how to begin fulfil-
ling those expectations. His good judge-
ment and organizational skills made the
course much more comprehensive than it
was last year and yet provided the depth
crucial to making the study meaningful.

I sincerely hope that you will reconsider
your decision concerning Dr. Engell.

Respectfully yours,

Frances Frame

Senior English Major

Advice
To the Editor:

Or rather, to the Class of 1987, David-
son College: From one of the centers (one of
the centers?) of the Universe, Jerusalem, I
send semi-anonymous, author-unimportant
congratulations on your imminent, perhaps
ominous, graduation. I have one verb of ad-
vice: Travel. And, as befits such occasion,
an apt quote. It’s from a fine piece of Amer-
ican writing, a story of departure, of the
flight into the unknown, and a return to the
warmth of home. It’s a story which admits
that departing is sad and that afterward
things are never quite the same. But it also
Says that departures aren’t goodbyes, that
things can still be good, even if they can’t
be the same. As the Lion from the story
asks, Ain’t it the truth, Ain’t it the truth?

The quote is a little more fun than all
that, though it desrves some thought. It’s
the just discovered Wizard of Oz, to the
wistful Tinman; “Back where I'come from,
there are great thinkers who think great
thoughts. They haven’t any more brains
than you have, but they do have one thing
you haven’t got . . . a diploma.”

Have a sunny graduation and enjoy the
hugs. To life! ;

_Sara Timmy Twab Ruby

