as
‘Sports Page

Friday, January 16, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sports year 1987 foreshadowed

By EDWIN PAGE

Because my prognosticating powers
seem to be at a high right about now, and
because it is pretty much the beginning of
the new year, I am prepared to make my
fearless predictions for the upcoming
year in sports: Most of my fearlessness
stems from the fact that when most of
these are found to be totally wrong, I will
not be around Davidson to face the
music. So with that in mind, here we go.

Being a big believer in trends, I don’t
think that the Celtics can break the stigma
of being defending champs. The Rockets
have gotten off to a slow start and have
recently been stripped of their top two
guards, so you can write them off now.

Not only. will the Celts not win, they
won’t even reach the finals. Dominique

Wilkins will help the Hawks gun down
Boston en route to a showdown with the
Lakers. This will be one of the fastest
paced finals ever as the Lakers will stop
the still too young Hawks in six.

In baseball, the fates will fortunately
prevent the damn Mets from winning the
series again. They will however win the
NL East basically by default over an im-
proving Philadelphia team. In the West,
the Astros will fall short as Mike Scott re-
turns to the realm of ordinary humans and
Nolan Ryan finally begins to show his

~ age. In their place will be the surprising

San Francisco Giants who will ambush
the cocky Mets in five games in the
NLCS,

‘In the American League, Boston will

fail to beat two jinxs, that of the repeating
in the AL East and the Cy. Young jinx.
Roger Clemens will go down with a re-
currance of his shoulder problems and
take Boston’s hopes with him.

Over the last six years, every team in
the AL East has taken a turn at the top
spot and this year Cleveland will make it
seven. They will: acquire some pitching
in the off season and their hitting will be
enough to clinch the title.

The Royals will rebound in the West,
but without more hitting, they won’t go
far. The Angels are already getting ar-
thritis and Wally Joyner will continue his
second half fade come April. This makes
for a tight three-way race with the Rang-
ers in baseball’s most mediocre division.

With a good trade or two and some re-.

vived young pitchers, the Royals should
clinch it on the last day only to be whal-
loped in four by the 1987 World Champi- -
on Cleveland Indians.

In the NFL, the Browns will make it a
big year for Cleveland as they run off toa
13-3 record and whip Denver in a grudge
match for the AFC title. The)Bears will
be ferocious again as Jim McMahon tre-
turns to the helm. They will nip the 49ers
in the NFC championship, but will fall
prey to a hungrier and less heavily com-
mercialized Browns team in the Super
Bowl of ’88.

Well, there you have it. My advice is.
to mortgage any property of value that
you may own and get your bets down
now’ while the odds are still incredibly
high.

Our three-year and
two-year scholarships won't
_ make college easier.

. M @ : :

Just easier to pay for.
Even if you didn't start college on ascholarship, you
could finish on one. Army ROC Scholarships
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational

ees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALI, YOU CAN BE.

_. See Capt. David Strong
Ext. 170 in the basement of Belk Dorm

ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

PIC’

TURE YOUR WORK

| In The 1988 —
Davidson College Wall Calendar

CASH PRIZES FOR SLIDES OF DAVIDSON SCENES SELECTED
FOR THE 1988 DAVIDSON COLLEGE WALL CALENDAR!!

ELIGIBILITY Any student enrolled this year, faculty or staff member employed
full- or part-time by Davidson may enter.

RULES Entries must be 35 mm Slides that relate in some way to David-
; ~ son College or the Town of Davidson. Slides may have been
taken at any time, including before announcement of the con-

test. All entries should be submitted to Jerry Stockdale, direc-

tor of college relations, before June 1, 1987. Winners will be
announced by August 1.

JUDGES Cotten Alston '67, professional photographer; Errol C., Gibson,
‘ graphic designer; Jerry S. Stockdale, director of college relations.
PRIZES Ail slides selected will be published in the 1988 Davidson Col-

lege wail calendar. Additionally, there will be a First Prize of $100,
Second Prize of $75 and Third Prize of $50.

JANUARY CLEARANCE

__Men’s and Women’s Clothing..

Downtown Mooresville for

John Mack 8 Gor

75 years

PORT CITY MOTOR CO.
U-SAVE AUTO RENTAL

- 664-2703 to reserve cars
also trucks !

4 doors and coupes for rent

$20 to move stuff

403 S. Broad St. Mooresville
Right across from Pantry

Werre selling cars
We’re also renting cars

S. 16.

Fi
night and day service
Insurance optional

“Hig
Inj
“S Feo

St

