—_——————WNews Shorts

Tax law for scholarships and fellowships changes

Recipients of scholarship and fellowship greants may want to take a look at
some recent changes to income tax law which may affect them, according to the
Internal Revenue Service.

“The Tax Reform Act of 1986 changes the rules which determine who may
exclude scholarship and fellowship gerants from their income,” said John E.
Burke, IRS District Director for North Carolina. “The new tax law also rede-
fines what kind of income can be excluded. These changes are effective for tax
years beginning after 1986 and apply to grants received after August 16, 1986.”

In the past, students who were not candidates for a degree could exclude
from their income ap to $300 of scholarship or fellowship income per month.”
Burke said this is no longer allowed. All such income received by non-degree
candidates must be included on their tax returns.

“We define a scholarship as any amount received by an individual as a schol-
arship or fellowship grant to the extent the grant is used for tuition and related ex-
pense. Tuition includes amounts paid for the enrollment or attendance of a stu-
dent at an educational organization. Related expenses are fees, books, “supplies
and equipment,” he said.

“Any other amounts received by the student would be includible in the reci-
pient’s income for that year. This would include any payment received for room,
board, or incidental expenses.”

Some scholarship grants include amounts which represent compensation for
past, present or future services to be provided. In the past, some of this could
have been excluded from income. The new. law states that all payments for ser-
vices are included in come even if the performance of the service is a condition
_of all students receiving the grant and all candidates for that degree.

Recipients of scholarship or fellowship grants may wish to obtain a copy of
the free IRS Publication 520, “Scholarships and Felloiwships,” or Publication
5653, “Highlights of the 1986 Tax Changes,” by calling 1-800-424-3676

Eating disorder support group started this term

A campus support group for women with eating disorders such as anorexia
and bulimia has been organized this term by Georgia Ringle. Ringle, who holds
a masters degree in public health, emphasized that the group is non-threatening
and confidential. Meetings will be held Mondays at 7:15 p.m. in 301 Chambers.
Although the group is currently for women only, Ringle hopes to be able to in-
clude men next fall as well. For further information, contact Georgia Ringle at
892-8748.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Casey dies, Secord testifies in Senate investigations

toad

Student loans available for summer school |
Educational loans for North Carolina students attending schools in or out of
state are available for summer school attendance as well as for the academic
year. These loans are available through College Foundation Inc. in Raleigh for
both undergraduate and graduate/professional students. For more information,
contact College Foundation, Inc., 1307 Glenwood Ave., Raleigh, NC 27605.
(919) 821-4771.

Minority Weekend takes place at Davidson College

On Saturday, May 2, the Admissions Office hosted a program for minority
high school sophomores and juniors who might be prospective Davidson Col-
lege students, their parents and high school guidance counselors from North and
South Carolina. The program was entitled “Davidon: College and Career Per-
spectives at a Highly Selective Liberal Arts College.”

The main events of the day were the talks given by various professors on the
use of a liberal arts education, a talk given by President Kuykendall on “David-
son College: a Place for Academic Diversity,” as well as talks on financing one’s
education given by Acting Dean of Financial Aid Kathleen Stevenson; applying
for college, given by Assistant Dean of Admissions Gary Mason; and oppor-
tunities at Davidson, given by Assistant Dean of Students Paula Miller. Some of
the currently enrolled students gave presentations on Davidson College life from

. the student perspective.

Professor Charles Ratliff of the Economics department spoke on opportu-
nites for economics majors; Professor Bill Mahoney of the Religion department
spoke, not only opportunities for religion majors which include divinity school,
but also on how philosophy and religion can answer the big question in life. Pro-
fessor David Grant of the Biology Department spoke on the place of science in
the liberal arts curriculum and pointed out that while Davidson’s own scientific
facilities are limitéd, there are opportunities to do work with other better en-
dowed facilities. Elizabeth Mills of the English department spoke on the value of
the Humanities, especially English. She pointed out what the English language
gives students; how literature can offer opportunities for experience. She em-
phasized that language is a tool for life.

The major events for the day were held in the 900 Room and the Morrison
Room in the Union. The event was co-sponsored by the Black Student Coali-
tion.

Material contributed by Aaron Levine

Friday, May 8, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By KATHERINE PRICE
Headlining news for May 1-7:

Across the Nation — Former CIA
Director William Casey died on Wed. of
pneumonia and complications stemming
from his brain tumor. The death of the
74-year-Old Casey leaves questions un-
answered about the U.S./Iran arms-for-
hostages deal and diversion of funds to
the contras.

Former Maj. Gen. Richard Secord
testified this week before congressional
investigative committees, asserting that
he believed that top White House offi-
cials were aware of the diversion of funds
from Iranian weapons sales to the Nicara-
guan contras. Secord stated that while he
had never spoken with Pres. Reagan per-
‘sonally, he thought that Reagan had been
aware of his activities through conversa-
; tions with former national security ad-
viser John Poindexter and former Marine
Lt. Col. Oliver North.

Hawaiian Democratic Sen. Daniel
Inouye stated that Pres. Reagan knew

much more about the arms-for-hostages
deal with Iran than he will admit. Inouye,
is leader of the Senate Investigating
Committee on the scandal.

Public relations executive Richard
Miller pleaded guilty to charges of con-
spiring to defraud the government on
Wed. Miller’s admission follows Carl
“Spitz” Channell’s admission of guilt last
week. Both Miller and Channell have im-
plicated former Marine Lt. Col. Oliver
North.

Dr. David Linder, an oregon
pathologist and father of the American
civilian killed by Nicaraguan contra
forces last week, said an autopsy of his

son’s body revealed that the contras

“blew his son’s brains out at point-blank

range.” The contras had cited Linder’s —

death as accidental...

Democratic presidential aspirant

Gary Hart became the focus of a possible
scandal, as The Miami Herald published,
reports.that he spent the night with Donna
Rice, a S.C. native. Polls taken after the
report indicate that Hart has already lost

support in his bid for the presidency. Hart
completely denies that anything immoral
happened between him and Rice.

Former PTL leaders Jim Bakker and
Richard Dortch were dismissed from the
Assemblies of God on Wed. Their dis-
missal was a reponse to “unbecoming
conduct” — Bakker’s sexual encounter
with Jessica Hahn and Dortch’s attempt
to cover the affair up.

Around the World — On Sun., Jor-
dan announced its willingness to partici-
pate in an international Middle East
peace conference. The Israeli leadership
has been split on this issue, with Foreign
Minister Peres in favor of the peace talks,
and Prime Minister Shamir opposed.

Israeli planes attacked Palestinians
near Sidon, Lebanon, killing 10 people
and injuring 28.

In Nicaragua, the United Nicaraguan
Opposition, an umbrella organization for
the contra rebel forcés, announced that it
would elect new directors, in an effort to
make the UNO more representative of the
Nicaraguan people.

Philippine Pres. Corazon Aquino al-
lowed the sale of 113 businesses which
been nationalized by the previous Marcos ~
regime.

South African black activist Winnie
Mandela attracted a gathering of 6000
students on Mon. in Johannesburg. The
group was subsequently dispersed by 100
South African policemen.

South African Pres. P.W. Botha
achieved overwhelming victory in.
Wed.’s election. Blacks protested the
election, in which only whites could
vote.

The World Jewish Congress opened
its meeting in Budapest, Hungary with
praise of the U.S. decision to bar Kurt
Waldheim from entering the U.S. Wal-
dheim is believed to have participated in
persecution of Jews during World War II.

Great Britain holds municipal elec-
tions Thurs. Fhe outcome of the elections

may affect Prime Minister Thatcher’s de- |

cision on whether or not to hold early
general elections on June 11.

