Friday, October 23, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
Keith Finch, Mark Chen, Editors
Sarah Bayne, Managing Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jon Boles, Tom Moore, Associate Editors
John Barrow, News Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors’
Jim Dillon, Inside Art Editor Lucia Kendall, Circulation Manager
Suzanne Craymer, Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
_ Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus

ae

Math illiteracy

_ At'the Open Forum on Admissions Wednesday afternoon, Dr.
Robert Manning of the Physics Department pointed out that the applica-
tion for Davidson places a prémium on the ability to write well, perhaps
at the expense of consideration of mathematical ability.

This observation offers a powerful criticism of Davidson and its fel-
low liberal arts schools; students are graduating who are in effect
mathematical illiterates.

While any such school places primary emphasis upon developing the

capacity for oral and written expression, the ability to think mathemati-
cally, and to a certain extent logically, should not be neglected.

The system of area requirements is designed to help avoid this prob-
lem, but it alone is not enough. Many Davidson seniors arrive at their ad-
visors’ offices in states of panic, suddenly aware that they are missing an
Area III credit, and because they are seniors, their choice of courses is
somewhat restricted.

As’a-result, students who never had Calculus in high school some-
times end up taking Math 25, while others may pick up the second course
in a series they began two or three years ago. Sometimes they fail.

This is disheartening for the student, but not nearly as disheartening
asthe fact that these individuals have failed to develop a capacity for sci-
entific reasoning, an important aspect of a liberal arts education.

Not everyone is:a born mathematician, just as not all write well or
excel in athletics. But every Davidson student has some degree of
mathematical aptitude, at least inasmuch as it is measured by the SAT.

This is not to say that more emphasis should be placed upon the natu-
ral sciences and mathematics at the expense of the humanities. Consid-
eration should be given, however, to changing requirements within Area
III so that Davidson students will have to take‘at least‘one math course,
perhaps treating Math 25 like English 21>

Another possibility which‘should be considered is placing a form for
a recommendation from a math or science teacher into the admissions
packet for consideration by the committee. When attempting to evaluate
whether or not a student will be capable of performing well academically
at Davidson, this aspect of his or her qualifications should definitely
come under consideration.

The. Davidsonian is published-Fridays during the school year by the students of Davidson Col-
lege. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box.219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone
(704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Offices located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union. Opin-
ions expressed in letters to the editor or Opinions articles do not necessarily reflect the views of

__|___the éditorial board of ‘The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for_

first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright held by the Trustees —
of Davidson College.

News Staff: Margeret Carroll, Frank Folger, Tripp Helms, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard,
Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Muadi Mukenge, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall,
Katherine Price, Walt Reynolds, Robert Smalley, Toby Truog.
Features Staff: Ash Ashannudin, Russell Booker, Glenn Fogle, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord,
Muadi Mukenge, Carey Pickard, Bill Scouten. — a
Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Ken Bogert, Caroline Cicero, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, An-
thony McCarron, Kathryn Mitchen, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrelt.
Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Ingrid Love, Rachel Nation,
Holme Oltrogge, Andre Roberts.

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn. _

Production Staff: Helen Bowman, Robert Coggins, David Dillon, Christian Harberts, Helen ,
Hull, Se-Hoon Oh, Bowe Strickland, Susan Majors.
Circulation Staff: Caroline Buxton, Jennings Craig, Laura Dodenhoff, Tim Jacks, Ingrid
Love. _

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger

‘

CN APARTH
We Thust

Ey

11

Letters
Litter PS

As I nibbled away at my breakfast last
Saturday moming (October 17), I was
shocked by what I saw. There, outside the
window of Vail Commons, flag poles lay
prostrate on the ground. Beer cans, bottles,
and cups also lay scattered around. Such
destruction of campus property and such
blatant littering is despicable. A student
triggered a false fire alarm in Belk dormit-

ory as well. Such bactanhalian pranks, to.

be sure, are uncalfed fot. I beseech you,
‘please-respect our campus, many of us still
have four years to go.

Sincerely,
Rachel Nation

Washers

To the Editors, 7
Recently I have been enraged with; the
washer-dryer situation on campus. Al-
‘though I appreciate the laundry,.I have sev-
eral nice garments that I prefer to wash. I
entered Watts with my bundle.of clothes
last week, waited endlessly for a washing
machine, put in my clothes, and left, return-

ing in 25 minutes only to find: my clothes,

soaking wet, lying on the dingy wooden
table amidst miscellaneous dirty and. un-
claimed laundry. As I examined my
clothes, I noticed brown dirty spots all.over
everything. At first I thought that the rude
person who had taken my clothes out of the
washer had accidentally, carelessly
dropped them into the seeping brown pud-
‘dles on the floor. However each person who
washed his/her clothes after me found his/
__her. clothes covered with progressively
larger brown chemical stains. After I bat-

: tled the:stains for an hour with Clorox, Era,

Woolite, and Fresh Start, I was resolved to
accept the fact that one expensive white
blouse, a white turtleneck, and several
other garments were permariently marred.

More washers and dryers are needed on
campus, along with maintenance of the
available ones. Also a system is needed
whereby students must sign up for allotted
time periods to use the machines and will
not tamper with others’ clothes or use more
than one washer or dryer.at.a time.

Sincerely,
- Margaret Carroll

To the Editors,
I have become very frustrated by the .
UPS package system. for Davidson stu-
dents. Several weeks ago, my mother sent a
package from which I was to select one item
and send the other back so that she could re-
turn it to the store. I didn’t receive any type
of notice to let me know that the package
existed, but my mother insisted that it had
arrived, as she had paid extra to have it “de-
livered” in one day. Several days after it ar-
riyed, my name appeared on the Union list.
I headed for the warehouse, which is sev-
eral blocks from campus, only to find that
the worker had decided to take a long lun-
chbreak. Due to a chemistry lab, I was un-
able to make it back to the warehouse dur-
ing its supposed hours.
"Well, for the. next two days no one an-
swered, the phone at the warehouse. A
hallmate and J tried for several hours, only
to find that the sole worker was delivering
packages to the facylty! I once more made
the trek to the warehouse to find it securely
padiocked with other furious students wait-
ing and shaking their heads.

My mother. called to ask me why she
hadn’t received her part of the package and
all that I could reply was that the warehouse
was only open during my classes and that
the worker didn’t answer the phone to indi-
cate that it was open later. After she in-
formed me that waiting another day would
cost about seventy dollars, I picked up the
phone and called the Union. They told me
that.it was open, but I assured them that the
door was locked. After calling an endless
twenty minute cycle of phone numbers, I fi-
nally, contacted a supervisor who told me
that it was indeed closed. I told him that I
was aware of that fact, and could he please
open it for me. Upon arrival at 3:30 p.m.., as
the warehouse phone rang unanswered, my
package was shoved into my arms, and the
door was frantically padlocked again. _

I certainly hope that no one’s grand-
mother was naive enough to send a surprise
batch of homemade cookies, as the unaware
recipient would drift from class to class as
his package rotted in the warehouse. Can’t a
package notification and delivery system be
developed here? _

Sincerely,
Sally Christian
“{
