Wednesday, April 15, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Whos on first — .

As the NBA and NHL wind down
their marathon regular seasons and major
league baseball begins its occupation of
the sports page, I began to wonder if any
of last year’s champions would be able to
repeat. Every sports writer with a few in-
ches of newsprint to work with has
picked the New York Mets to repeat in
baseball and become the next dynasty in
sports.

And therein lies my real question:
Can dynasties occur in the balance-
biased world of 1980s sports?

Back in the fifties and sixties, being a
sports fan was easy; you either loved. or
hated the dynasty in question. Every
sport had a dynasty. The New York Yan-
kees dominated baseball, the Boston Cel-

tics won eight straight NBA crowns,
Green Bay controlled the NFL and the

Montreal Canadiens always won hockey. —
- If you. were not a fan of any of these

teams, your team lost in the end. -

Yet dynasties have been hard to come
by in the last decade. The last baseball
team to repeat as World Series champi-
ons, much less win four or five straight ti-
tles, was the Yankees of 1977-78. No
basketball champion has repeated since
the Celtics in 1968-69. Only in hockey
has a dynasty occurred recently as the
New York Islanders grabbed four Stanley
Cups in 1980-83.

Just a couple of weeks ago the last
sports dynasty came to an end. The Iowa
Hawkeyes saw their nine-year streak of
NCAA wrestling titles fall as arch-rival
Iowa State won this year’s NCAA crown.
Not since UCLA had won seven consecu-
tive NCAA basketball titles had one
school ruled any sport so completely.

Television and simple greed have
made dynasties a sports dinosaur. Televi-
sion has changed sports through the ex-

posure it gives to athletics, both pro and
college, and the money it grants to those
who play. The NCAA basketball tourna-

ment was a 23-team title bout before tele- —

vision swelled it into the 64-team ex-
travaganza that dominates the airwaves
in March. The bigger the tournament, the

smaller the chances of one team winning

every year.

Bigger tournaments haunt the dynas-
tic efforts of teams in all pro sports. Al-
most half the franchises in the NFL make
the playoffs and more than half do in both
the NBA and the NHL. In the case of the
NHL, more teams make the playoffs (16)
than existed in the 1960s (6).

Greed by both players and owners has
made dynasties impossible. Owner greed
created the expanded playoff formats
mentioned above. Player greed has
caused new terms such as “free-agent”
and “hold-out” to appear in the sports lex-
icon. As players jump from team to team
in search of the highest bidder, simple
concepts such as “team loyalty” and
“team stability” have disappeared. How
can a general manager build a dynasty

Dynasties: today are a sports dinosaur —

when his whole team can go to arbitration
or become free agents after winning a
championship?

Player complacency, always the
foiler of dynasties, occurs more rapidly
in the age of big-money endorsements.
Check out the Chicago Bears. Most of the
1986 Super Bow! champs were too busy
lining up endorsements to worry about
repeating. William “The’ Refrigerator”
Perry still dominates the airwaves as a
king of commercials, but his team no
longer reigns as Super Bowl champs.

Can the Mets — or Celtics and Cana-
diens for that matter — repeat their.
heroics of 1986? No. The Mets are al-
ready smashing the self-destruct buttom

as Dwight Gooden has checked into a |

drug rehabilitation center and Darryl
Strawberry has had a run-in with the
manager. In addition, Len Dykstra and
Wally Backman had peak years last sea-
son and will not be as effective this sum-
mer.

For the modern team, one champion-
ship seemis to be the limit.

“Let us be your connection to great Pizza!"

onan

™

Daivaie fo Davison College- FREE! After 9 pn SPECIAL Monday- Thursday
: age 12 in. with 3 toppings— $6.25 16 in. with 3 toppings- $7.75

Mon. - Thurs. 11:00 a.m. - 10:00 pm.

‘ii and Sat.

Sunday 4:30 p.m. -
g892- 9046 25% OFF any order of 3 or more large PIZZAS

11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
11:00 pm.

‘Tf yes, call 333.0907

Sign up for Army ROTC Basic
Camp. You'll get six weeks of (
challenges that can buildup your = %

leadership skills as well as your Y
body. You'll also get almost $700,

Science for details.

892-2000 Ext 170

But hurry. This summer may be
your last chance to graduate from )
. college with a degree and an officer's
commission. Be all you can be.
See your Professor of Military \

See Cpt. David Strong in Bak Basement

for INFORMATION

| ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING CORPS

