ge a a bale a aaeta |
ug 2 pes °
& ‘

‘ Sophomore Maurice Grey moves the ball pe those Irish Nationals...

Rasslin'

Sports Information

Davidson mat men:
ready to move

By HOLME OLTROGGE

Packed with more talent than in previous -

years, Davidson’s 87-88 wrestling team
looks ready for a solid season of intense
competition. For the first time in the three
years of coach Tom Oddo’s career, the team
has the strength and talent it needs to seri-
ously challenge its Southern Conference
rivals. The squad is also inspired by the fact
that it is hosting the Southern Conference
tournament this year. Finally, this will be
the team’s last campaign in the Southern
Conference and Oddo hopes the wrestling
team will leave its mark through strong
performances both by individuals and by
the team as a whole. ;

Leading the squad of returning letterman
and newcomers toward this competitive
season are co-captains Tim “Slew” Heinze
(177 pound weight class) and Sherb “I
swear” Sentell (158).

Heinze, a three year letterman and an ex-
perienced wrestler, is the most dependable
and consistent wrestler on the team. Be-
sides having the skills to lead the team to a
successful season, he will be the dominant
force on the squad.

Sentell represents the spirit of the t team;
his enthusiasm and humour will uphold the
morale of the squad. However, his perform-
ance does not reflect his lightheartedness.
After placing third in the Southern Confer-
ence last year, he should again be a strong,
contender this year. ©

Two additional veterans who will be in
the line up are Doug Batcheller and Bill
Breidenstine. Batcheller (167), a strong
wrestler whose season was cut short by a
shoulder operation last year, is again in the
line up. Breidenstine (142) is a senior two-
sport letterman (cross country is his other
sport) returning from a,year abroad.

In addition to the experience of the letter-

men, the squad is blessed with fresh talent.
The talent comes from eight new, but not
inexperienced, wrestlers. Matt “the Ox”
McConnel (177) will provide strength to
the team in the upper weights. The major
force of the new talentis in the six freshmen
coming on the team. At 134 is big “D”
Dylan Glenn, a Prep National champion
from Episcopal. Joe Binns is a natural
wrestler at 142. His style appears casual,
but his ease should not hide the intensity of
his competition.

Currently at 150 is Holt “Tex” Foster
who, along with Leslie Jordan, will pull
more than his weight on the team. Round-

. ing out the last two weight classes are Steve
' Webb (190) and Aengus Channon (Hwt),

two football players who are ready to take
on new challenges.

Plagued with injuries since the beginning
of the season, the squad is delayed by some
holes in the line-up. Shoulder and knee
injuries are the main causes of the slow
starts; three knees and two shoulders are
currently under TLC treatment. (For those
faithful followers who wonder what hap-

pened tothe 118 lb. class, yours truly cannot

fill that weight right now due to a boo-boo
on the knee. Any lightweights out there?)
Despite the inevitable injuries, which this
year have. been much more severe than
normal, the team should recover from the
delay and prove to be a competitive force.

The fresh talent that just arrived will aid
the squad toward a successful season. The
Davidson team is capable of beating con-
ference rival, Furman, as well as other
strong teams such as sien Tech and
Washington & Lee.

This year’s schedule contains 11 home
matches including the Southern Confer-
ence tournament, The season’s first home
match is this Saturday at 2:00 pm.

--aS does teammate Derek Rucker against Erskine.

Around the horn

Realities of the
Sports Business

By HAP BRYANT

“Money changes everything.” In today’s
sports world, this holds especially true.
Where the Boys of Summer once played in
Flatbush, now an apartment complex
looms. Ebbets Field was razed after Walter
O’Malley decided to. move HIS team,
which was more likely- Brooklyn’ s team,
sunny southern California, °"\" "°°

Not soon after, the Giants vachted the
Polo Grounds for San Francisco. Now Bob

Lurie, owner of the Giants, is threatening to -

move them again if the city does not build
them a stadium toreplace Candlestick Park.

In addition, football teams like the Oilers
and Cardinals are trying to bribe their cities
by threats of displacement. Hence, sports is
no longer a recreational diversion for play-
ers and spectators. Rather, it has become
big business on both professional and colle-
giate levels.

In his book J Never Played the Game,

Howard Cosell criticizes team moves. Not
only is it disheartening to the fans who are
loyal supporters, but Cosell believes it is
also illegal for an owner to pick up a team
and move it elsewhere.
PU ved du iridescent
protect the major sports, owners will essen-
tially be able to move their clubs to greener
pastures when the opportunity arises.
Consequently, Al Davis, having justmoved
the Raiders to Los Angeles from Oakland,
can safely assume that he will face little
difficulty in moving them to Irwindale.

Although locale changes represent a
major “big business” aspect of sports, the
recent rash of player strikes in the NFL and
baseball also mark a high-water mark in the
sports business.

Both this year’s NFL strike and the base-
ball strikes have signified an effort on
behalf of players to get the rights that unions
in other businesses have: collective bar-
gaining, and the right to sell one’s services
to the highest bidder, called free agency.

Does an owner possess lifetime rights to
a player, even if his contract runs out? Can
the player, once his commitment to one
team has ended, negotiate with other
teams? In baseball, the efforts of Curt

. Flood in the 1970’s opened the door for free

agency. Beginning with Andy
Messersmith, players were able to sell their

" services to the highest bidder once their

current obligations expired.
However, a recent federal suit has

* these sports issues.

brought the issue of baseball free agency to
the forefront again. The owners, in an
attempt to keep player salaries down, have
refused in the last several years to negotiate

‘with expensive free agents from other

teams, forcing them to sign less valuable
contracts.

A federal arbitrator ruled that the owners
participated in'collusion through these ef-
forts. Now, the door is apparently open
again to free agency, as is evidenced by this
week’s signings of Brett Butler by the
Giants and Chili Davis by the Angels.

Unfortunately for the football players,
their efforts ended in futility this season. In
an attempt to gain free agency, the player’s
union went on strike. The union demon-
strated little unity, however, as each week
more and more players crossed the picket
lines to play inreplacement games. Finally,
the whole union gave in, but their federal
suit against the owners continues.

Although no strike has occurred in bas-
ketball, the seeds exist for much strife. A
salary cap exists for each team, so that the
15-man roster will stay within a certain
monetary range.

This seems a most flagrant vistitioa of
free enterprise. If Ted Turner can affordto .
pay his fifteen players more than Dr. Jerry
Buss can, then by the tenets of free enter-
prise, he should be allowed to do it.

The salary cap in the NBA could be an
attempt to bring parity to the league. But
who wants parity if it means mediocrity?
It’s far better to have an upper echilon with
quality play than a league of equality with
mediocre play.

The era of high finances has raised all
In addition, multi- -
million dollar sports complexes are being
built to enhance programs nationwide.
Davidson’s new facility ec sate just one
of these efforts.

Alumni across the nation are making
bigger and bigger contributions to their
alma maters, and often they get involved
financially with players. Surely, not only
S.M.U. and Tennessee have paiticipated i in
recruiting of questionable repute.

Unfortunately, money has become the
dominant motivation for many in the sports
world. Showing a quality product to the
public and gaining public loyalty have been.
subjugated to the egos of the owners, play-
ers, and boosters, whose greed at times
knows no bounds.
