Bogert on fraternities, page 14

Wan

Volume LXXVIII, Number 9

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Friday, December 11, 1987

Residents angered by clearing for sports complex

The Baker parking lot—“strip mine.”
By TRIPP HELMS

Only a scattering of trees remains of the
once heavily wooded area near the homes
of many Concord Road and North Th-
ompson Street residents. Shortly before
Thanksgiving, bulldozers razed this area to
makeroom fora617-space parking lot to be
built adjacent to the new Baker sports
complex.

The extent of the land clearing for the
complex came as a suprise to many
Davidson residents. English professor and

Eating disorders

predicted that the action will force the town
to tighten its zoning ordinances.

The Campus Chronicle reported that one
resident told project superintendant Jerry
McClung that “she would have strapped
herself to a tree to try to stop it [the clear-
ing)” if she had known about it beforehand.

Davidson College’s Director of Facilities
Planning, Grover Meetze, admitted that the
residents may not have been informed of
the extent of the clearing, but he said that
the town Planning Board and the Architec-
tural Appearance Committee approved-the
project. (Meetze has issued a statement
addressing recent criticism of the construc-
tion project, and it is reprinted in full on

*- page 10 of this issue of The Davidsonian.)

Robert Nesbit

North Thompson Road resident John
Engell said that the residents “had no con-
ception of the size of the destruction until it
was done.”

Neighbor Moreland Hogan describes the
clearing as a “desecration.” Hogan, like the
other affected residents, was not aware that
the area to be cleared for the lot would be so
close to his property line. He believes that

the college had “a moral obligation to in-.

form the property owners that they were
going to.cut as much as they did,” and he

Davidson Art professor Larry Ligo was
acting chair of the Davidson Town Plan-
ning Board when the proposal for the park-
ing lot was approved this summer. Ligo said
that none of the committee members were
aware of the proximity of the new parking
lot to the property lines of the adjacent
homeowners, and he acknowledges that
they should have requested this informa-
tion specifically. But, Ligo adds, Meetze
did not offer this information. The commit-
tee was shown an architect’s rendering of
the complex and a map illustrating its posi-
tion in relation to Knobloch Tennis Center.
There were no property lines on any of the

Society’s emphasis on ‘thin’ harmful

By MUADI MUKENGE

Why do women in the United States work faithfully to fit
society’s physical norm by stringent dieting? According to
Amelia Dockery, a psychologist in Davidson’s counseling
center, “Women have moved into another form of slavery.
Men still control society by not accepting their (women’s)
figures as they are.”

The emphasis on being thin in our society has proven
detrimental to many females. It is an additional stress
which has built up to the point that women starve them-
selves despite not being overweight, take laxatives in order
to get rid of digested food and exercise until their ribs
protrude. Why? Supposedly, to be accepted in society. .

and 2) eating to fita stereotype. In recent years, more study
has been devoted to the study of two eating disorders--
anorexia nervosa and bulimia--yet overeating is just as
serious.

Anorexia is diagnosed as intentional self-starvation to
lose weight; bulimia is diagnosed as “bingeing and purg-
ing,”-- that is, eating enormous amounts of food and
forcing it out of the system before it is digested. Vomiting
is induced by using one’s finger; another popular method
is to take ipecac, an over the counter drug intended for
poison victims. Bulimics also take laxatives in extreme
doses. While anorexics are usually thin, bulimics are of
regular weight.

In a September 1987 report by the American Medical-= All in society are aware of signals which flash “be thin,

Association, it was stated that as much as 20 percent of
college women have symptoms characteristic of eating
disorders.

be thin.” Simply remembering the cruel taunts which a
rotund elementary school student received from his peers
is evidence enough. The media tells.us that we should drink

According to Harriette Fulton, assistant dean of students — Tab, which has only one calorie, so we can all be “beauti-

at Davidson, modified eating patterns are themselves a
response to stress; food is abused just as drugs and alcohol
are. One female student cited that pressure to make career
decisions and high academic expectations of faculty and
—friends (“peer pressure to study”) are causes of stress. —

Adds Dockery, “the appointment book at Davidson’s_
counseling center is always filled.” In fact, she continues,
there is a waiting list of students wanting to talk about a
range of problems.

The way we perceive and treat our bodies may be studied
in these two approaches: 1) eating as a response to stress;

News:
SGAelectioncampaign speeches.
Read ’em while they're hot!

Fase §

Features:

Colorized Capra:
Capitalist Conspiracy.
Page 8

ful” people. Fashion magazines contain idealized portray-

als of women which many females strive to copy.
Anorexia and bulimia are mainly found among white

women of upper-class families. According to a May ’85

~article in People, these women are competitors and over-

achievers with “high standards and low self-esteem.” They
stand out as examples of perfection and try to maintain a
perfect lifestyle. It is precisely this preoccupation with

See DISORDERS, p. 6

a

Sports:
Page 11

In-depth B-ball stats.

maps presented to the committee. .

Meetze maintains that the information
has not been kept a secret from the faculty
members, who he says have been the most
vocal with their complaints. According to
him, plans for the present parking lot site
were shown to the faculty in the late 1960s.
These plans also were drawn without the
inclusion of property lines.

President John Kuykendall admitted
negligence on the part of the college in not
fully informing the residents and said, “We
owe an apology to theaneighbors of the |
college who were not given complete infor-
mation on the nature of the clearing before
it was done. We intend that the outcome
will be not only attractive but will compen-
sate for any short term inconvenience that
has been caused.”

According to Meetze and Kuykendall,
extensive landscaping and planting are to
be apart of this compensation. The area will
be graded with dirt moved from the nearby
football practice field, and evergreen trees
will be planted toact asa shield between the
parking lot and the houses.

Davidson mayor Russell Knox has re-
ceived some complaints from property
owners, but he does not foresee the town

See COMPLEX, p.6

Hear Ye;

We're outtahere for’87.Seeyaon
January 8, 1988. Haveacool Yule
and a groovy New Year.

