Volume LXXVINI Neasber 2

Students speak out on laundry fee, p. 3
The Davidsonian

Friday, September 25, 1987

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

ad

College increases ieee student laundry fee

After years of deficits,

By FRANK FOLGER and
WALT REYNOLDS

Concern has been raised again
this year over Davidson’s mandat-.-
ory laundry service which has
once again increased its yearly
fee, this time to $310. SGA Presi-
dent Conrad Doenges indicated
that he has received student input
about the current laundry service
provided by the college and in par-
ticular about the cost increase of
the mandatory fee for laundry ser-
vice.

According to Doenges, who
raised the issue during a meeting
with college president Kuykendall
on Monday, it is “a policy of the
school that things like tuition,

the past. (The 1984 self-study re-
ported the laundry deficit to be
$102,473 for the 1983-84 school
year). With this year’s increase,
the laundry service finally plans to
break even, says Davidson.

The Comptrolier’s office

notes that a major expense for the

operation muy finally break even

laundry is the employment of its l-«¢

staff. Frances Beaver, Laundry
Manager, has 22 full-time em-
ployees, three part-time employ-
ces and three work-study students
on. her staff. She says that this
number is the most efficient for
the service.

The full-time staff is employ-

eed year round although during .

the summer, due to lack of neces-

room ‘fee, and laundry fee are
mandatory.” ;

According to Comptroller
Robert Davidson, the price of
laundry service’ has steadily in-
creased each year from $200 for
the 1984-85 school year to $225 in
1985-86 and $270 in ’86-87 to this
year’s fee of $310. These yearly
increases, according to Mr.
Davidson, have been made to help
‘minimize the substantial losses in-
curred: by the laundry service in

sity, all but four or five of the staff —

are farmed out to other areas of the
school such as the library and resi-
dent life office. Beaver also stres-
sed her staff’s dedication to the
laundry service at Davidson. there
are two employees who each
“have been here for over 50
years,” she said, and others have
been here for over 35 years.

_ The laundry’s equipment al-
though old is still
Beaver says the laundry’ s budget

~

Co

Two of the laundry’s 28 employees

allows her to make occasional
equipment, replacements but not
nearly to the extent that she would
like. It has been eight to ten years
since the last major replacement in
the laundry service equipment.
Last spring, Linda Tatsapeugh

of the class of 88 started a petition
to make the laundry service op-
tional. She argued that “forcing
people to pay for inferior ser-
vices” was an unfair practice.

“I think everyone I talked to
said it Shouldn't be mandatory,”

—
ba.

nmmaaatnsst®
Antes Rebare

said Tatsapaugh. She said that she
collected 128 signatures, but be-
cause she was unable to single-
handedly circulate the petition
throughout the school, she never

See LAUNDRY, page 3

New residence hall is projected to house mostly Seniors

But what about the Belk parking lot?
By MUADI MUKENGE Belk dorm. This site is preferred
Does Davidson have a hous- over two-others — the land be-
ing problem? Judge for yourself. hind Irwin and Akers dorms, and

According to Tom Jennings,
Director of Residence Life, hous-
ing spece has always been short
since he joined the staff in 1985.
Ninety to 92 percent of the 1400
Student body requests housing; the
campus only has room for 80 per-
cent. In spite of perimeter housing
and akematives such as Oak Hill
apartments, there are four stu-
dents presently living in lounges,
and twenty-five males who were
on the waiting list ultimately had
to seek housing in the community.

It is in response to the housing
shortage that Davidson will have
_built for the fall of 1968 four new

Lingle Manor, which is across the
street from Richardson dorm.
These other sites might be rejected
mainly because they are not on the’
appropriate zones, said Jennings.
Davidson. is divided into two
zones: Zone A contains adminis-
trative and academic buildings;
Zone B has residential, dining and
recreational facilities.

Lingle manor was the site
most prefered by students accord-
ing to a survey taken last spring,
said Jennings.

The dorms will look very
similar to Phi and Eu halls —

brick with white trim and fake
columns. Two-storied and entered

apartment-style dorms to house
128 students. the dorms will cost 2
million dollars.

According to Jennings, the
dorms probably will be located in
what is now the parking lot next to

News Analysis:
A look at the Davidson

tenure system

by center doors, they will consist
of four four-bedroom apartments
have a common living/dining area
and a kitchen. There will be one
bathroom and shower. The bed-

will therefore only pay single dents who want to lead an inde-

rates. pendent lifestyle. As opposed to to
Who will live in the new freshmen and sophomores, who

dorms? Seniors, more than likely. are more likely to want to get to

According to Jennings, the apart-

ments are tailored for mature stu-— —,— ——_-

rooms will be separated from the
living area by a corridor. Each
bedroom will be 9°6” x 10°0”,
which is smaller than the approxi-
mate 12’0’’ x 9’0 dimensions of .
current double rooms. Students

A tradition for the fiaure
College: Service task force selected

By MARIA DOUGLAS to service,” says Kuykendall,
President John Kuykendall “and we need to take a good hard
has appointed Dean of Students look at ourselves and at what
Will Terry and Dr. Clark Ross © we ‘re doing to maintain that repu- son is doing and to evaluate how
co-chair a task force on service. _ tation.” well it is doing it, (3) to make rec-
The purpose of the task force , The task force is comprised of ommendations about the current
said Kuykendall in alettertocom- four professors, four students, service status, and (4) to make
wee members, is “to study .the_ two trustees, several administra-_ -propositions —concemming— new.
ways in which Davidson fulfills tors, and several members of the things to try and identify resources

its obligation to service both loc- community — 19 in all. They all needed to implement those plans.
ally and in the larger communities have a common interest in service The findings of the task force

in which we are involved.” to the community.

“We've given ourselves over The task force has before it

t

See HALL, page 3

four main objectives: (1) to iden-
tify current service efforts in the
college, (2) to look at what David-

See SERVICE, page 3

Movie Review:

Page 5

2001 is a cinema classic

one in blowout

Page 7

