Wen Shan Xie

Davidson College, as one of the outstanding colleges in
the South, is also known for its international orientation.
The Dean Rusk Program directed by Dr. Perry is created
for this special purpose. As a beneficiary of this program,
and as a Chinese student who came to study at Davidson
just a year ago, I take it as my responsibility to get David-
son students better acquainted with the Chinese society. In
my effort to do so, I will in this article answer-one of the
questions I have been repeatedly asked most recently. The
question is so fundamental that by explaining my answer to
it you will be introduced to the most important event that is
happenintg in China — the economic reform.

Recently I have been asked by several friends as to
whether China is becoming a capitalist country. This ques-
tion is based on the fact that China, in its recent effort to re-
form the economy, has since 1978 adopted a series of
economic policies that are generally regarded as “‘capitalis-
tic.” Before committing myself to this question, I would
first like to clear up one point. We all know that in the pre-
sent world neither pure capitalism nor communism exists.
So in this case we are really talking about “American,

capitalism,” which is most Fete sentative of the world
capitalism, versus “Chinese communism.’

Having cleared up this point, my opinion is that while it
is true that China has adopted some reform measures that.
are generally regarded as “capitalistic,” the nature of the
country is still unchanged. Therefore my answer is that
China is not becoming a capitalist country.

The guiding principle in the Chinese economic reform:
is pronounced by Chinese leader Deng Xiao-Ping in the

Third plenum of the | 1th Central Committee of the Chinese
Communist Party in 1978: “To build socialism in the
Chinese characteristic.” This is a well-forged statement..
What is a Chinese characteristic — socialism? There is no
precedent. This leaves Chinese leaders great flexibility in
maneuvering the. economy. However this also shows the
Chinese leaders’ determination not to model on any other
countries economic system, but to set up its own model. In
the following passage I will explain first why and secondly
how the Chinese leaders attempt to do so, and in the mean-
time, I hope the facts I explain will make it clear why China
is not becoming a capitalist country.

First, why do the Chinese leaders attempt to reform the
economy under the principle of building socialism in the
Chinese characteristic?

The Chinese economic system, in the early years of the
communist regime, was largely modelled on that-of the
Soviet Union. Central planning economic system, public
ownership of means of production. In the countryside even
a family-owned cow was collectivized. The theory behind
is that people work t eX to improve their common wel-

PE

vy Ne

The policy is designed to solve the
problem of “lack of incentive” while
retaining the socialist nature of the
Chinese society

y

fare. Material equality was heavily emphasized. These
mark the basic difference from a capitalist economy which
is based on private — ownership; which emphasizes
equality of opportunity, but not of results. In this respect,
the capitalist system does seem to have its advantages for it
provides incentive for each individual to improve himself,
to fulfill, to a large extent, his or her potentiality, and this in
turn will improve the society in general. While in China, a

economic system based on public ownership and an em- -

phasis on equality provide little incentive for individuals to
‘try his best. This inevitably slows down the economic de-

velopment. Deng Xiao-Ping and his followers have long
realized this serious problem and had tried, on several oc-
casions, to correct it by adopting a more pragmatic ap-
proach. But for his pragmatism, Deng was twice demoted
from his leadership, and was once sent to work in a tractor
factory. Then after the former chairman of China Mao
Zedong died in 1976, Deng gradually regained his leader-
ship and in 1978 he started again to deal with the problem of
the “‘lack of incentive” in. the Chinese economic system.
However, this proved no easy job, for an incentive system
like American capitalism is based on inequality of results
and on private ownership. This would mean, to the prag-
matic leaders, the abandonment of material equality as well
as public ownership. This would be committing political
suicide for whoever chose to do so. Besides a capitalist sys-
tem based on private ownership is not all good, it has its
own drawbacks. Deng and his followers are conscious of
both of these. But something has to be done. It is against
this background that a uniquely Chinese economic policy
emerges. The policy is designed to solve the problem of
“lack of incentive” while retaining the socialist nature of
the chinese society, which is reflected by the general guid-
ing principle of “building socialism in the Chinese charac-
teristic.” It is toward this goal all the present reform poli-
cies are formulated.

Secondly, how do the Chinese leaders attempt to solve
the basic problem of “lack of incentive” while at the same
time retaining the country’s socialist nature?

The radical Chinese economic. reforms, starting in
1978, underwent two major phases. The first phase was the
“rural reform,” -which-was directed to. reform the agricul-
tural system. The second phase was the “urban reform,”
which was directed to reshape the industrial structure.

The first phase of the reform, the “rural reform,” began

. in 1978. Its basic policies were formulated at the Third

Plenum of the 11th Central Committee of the Chinese
Communist Party. Before the reform people worked in col-
lectives. Chinese agricultural system in general was based
on a “three level” ownership: the people’s commune, the
production brigade and the production team, with the last
the basic accounting unit. This system lacked incentive for
the simple reason that people are working for the common

welfare.
To work for the common good is a theoretically sound

idea, for what it really boils down to is that everyone is part
of the Chinese society, and that in the long run if the society

_on the whole develops, so does the welfare of each indi-

vidual. But in practice it is just the opposite, for what the in-
dividual peasant cares about most is his short-term self-in-
terest. If he works harder than others he expects to get more
for himself, but that usually not the case, for the society on
the whole emphasizes material equality, and to use material
incentive as a lure to increase production is deemed con-
trary to the socialist ideal of equality. As a result, most
people chose not to work hard. To solve this problem the
government discarded the three-level ownership agricul-
tural system and introduced a “household contract respon-
sibility” system. Under this system, lands that were previ-
ously owned collectively were divided into small pieces
and contracted out to individual households. The size was
determined by the capable work force of the family. gov-
ernment set moderate quota on -each households and
surplus after having met the quota could be sold on free
‘market at a higher price and the household retained the
profit. This provided great incentive as well as pressure for
the individual households who were now solely responsible
for the piece of land contracted from the government.
These measures greatly increased agricultural production.
From 1978 to 1986 China had improved from being an im-
porter to being an exporter of agricultural goods.

The second phase of the reform, the “urban reform,”
was started on an experimental basis in late 1978. Before
1978, the Chinese urban economy was under a central plan-
ing system under which the central government planning
committee would lay out a blueprint each year on the basis
of previous performance and its plan for future develop-
ment. The committee was also responsible for setting quota
for each production sector, and for playing a balancing role

~ in the whole national economy. As a result of this over-cen-

tralized system, production units were heavily interdepen-
dent. So if one unit failed to meet its quota, it would cause a
chain reaction. The whole system caused great ineffi-
ciency. In-addition, under such a system production units
were required to hand over all its profits to the central gov-

ernment, which would decide where to spend on the basis
of overall need. Over-centralized planning, deprived of the
‘basic production units of any decision-making power, and
the initiatives at the grass-root level were greatly curbed.
To deal with these problems, the government first under-
took to decentralize the economy; making the basic pro-
duction units independent entities, and the directors of
these units responsible for its own management and their
profits and losses. Secondly, instead of the previous prac-
tice of handing over all the profits to the central govern-
ment, basic production units have now been required to pay

Any policy that fails to deal correctly _
with individuals is doomed to failure

taxes to the government and are permitted to keep those
after-tax-profits for the units’ own use. Thirdly, a number
of small production units have been contracted out to indi-
viduals or groups of individuals. Fourthly, individuals
have been allowed to run their own business. Fifthly, unit
directors have been encouraged to a certain extent'to base
their production decisions on market supply and demand.
These series of reforms have greatly changed the urban sec-
tor of the:national economy: as well:as the relationship be-
tween the central government and its basic production
units. It has provided great incentives for the leaders of
these units to play a much more positive role in the
economy. Because of the independent roles they now have
to play, incapable leaders have gradually given their way to
more talented, well-educated ones. However, despite these
changes, the state government still retains direct control of
all the major industries, and, as in the rural reform, still sets
moderate quotas on each production unit. Some market

’. mechanisms have been allowed to come into play only after

these quotas were met.

So far I have concerned myself mainly with the overall
urban economic structural reform, but it is individual work-
ers that form the basic element of this structure, and they
are the decisive factors of the economy. Any policy that
fails to deal correctly with individuals is doomed to failure.
So at the same time the government was taking measures to
reform the overall structure of urban economy, it also took
measure to “reform” individuals. Here again, the lack of in-
centive has been the fundamental problem. Before the re-
form, employees, all working in government-owned fac-
tories, drew fixed monthly wages on the basis of the length
of time. For example, all the people that were hired in 1980
in a particular factory had the fixed monthly pay of, say,
$50. Then two years later the wages of the whole group.
would be increased to $55. Then maybe ten to 15 years later
the wage of this group would be increased again. There
were no variations among the individuals within the group.
This problem was further complicated by the lack of power
of the directors to give serious punishments to those work-
ers that were detrimental to production. This system lacked
incentive because first, the wages were fixed according
how long one has worked, not his performance. Secondly,
the director didn’t have the power to fire employees, be-
cause socialism emphasized equality and did not allow un-
employment. This is the case even when the individual
didn’t not work, or quit work.

To deal with these problems, several measures were
taken. First, as a consequence of the decentralization, di-
rectors were given full power to run the unit, including the
power of firing those detrimental to production. This power |
has. not been used very often, but the mere existence has
served as an effective deterrent. Secondly, workers since
1982 have been put under a “contract worker” system.
Under this system the employer had the power to prolong or
‘Teenter a contract if both parties have been willing to. He
also had the power to end the contract for 00d reasons.

Continued to page 13.
