China: The Archaeology, The Art, The Culture

The Center for International Studies at UNCC will sponsor a program in the
People’s Republic of China this summer. Travelers will visit Hong Kong, Shan-

ghai, Beijing, Guilin, Xian, Luoyang and Suzhou.

The trip will focus on the archaeology and anthropology of China, and will
be accompanied by Dr. Kathleen Reichs of the Department of Sociology-and
Anthropology. Highlights will include a visit to the tomb of the first emperor of
China with its thousands of life-sized terra cotta figurines, a cruise on the River
Li, famed for its spectacular and dramatic scenery, a stop at Suzhou, sometimes

Continued from page !|

Students, in their discussions
of the scenarios, agreed that they
would not move out on their gay
roommate without at least first
discussing the issue with him or
her. While many said that they
would not move out, others admit-

ed that they would feel stig-
Jmatized at a conservative college
such as Davidson. Not only would
they worry about others believing

hat they too were gay, but also
they would worry slightly about
AIDS.

One student brought up the
issue of flamboyance and said that

John replied that it would be just
as unfair for someone to demand
of his gay friends to “act straight”
as it would be for someone to de-
mand of his straight friends to “act
gay” in order to make him feel
more comfortable. Again, the
issue of tolerance and the impor-
tance of a “liberal attitude” had
come up.

Finally, panelists urged the
students to accept gays as people
and to let them be their friends or
even their college roommates. It is
not necessary, they said, to agree
with homosexuals or to embrace
homosexuality. However, like all

it would make him uncomfortable____ people, gays must be accepted —

to be around a flamboyant.

‘omosexual. To this statement.

not alienated, and certainly not
punished by society.

Friday, February 6, 1987 THE DAVIDSONIAN

called China’s most beautiful city, and a tour of the Forbidden City in Beijing.
While the trip is open to all that want a travel experience a bit beyond ‘the ordi-

nary, participants may earn up to 6 hours of graduate or undergraduate credit.
The tour will take place July 1-17, 1987, and will cost $2,930.00. This in-

cludes a round-trip flight from the U.S. to China, all air and bus transportation

within China, accomodations in first class hotels, three meals a day in China,
and guides and entrance fees throughout. For those electing the academic op-
tion, tuition is also included.

For more information and ‘a brochure with details about the schedule, call
547-2464 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. weekdays.

Faculty examines semesters

By NELLE MCCORKLE

The faculty Educational Pol-
icy Committee is currently con-
sidering a semester calendar as
part of a general curriculum re-
view. If approved by the faculty,
the proposed calendar could be in-
stituted for the 1988-89 academic
year.

The draft should be completed
this month, according to Vice
President for Academic Affairs
and Dean of Faculty Robert Wil-
liams. He said the proposal ‘will
ultimately be circulated for facul-
ty, staff, and student discussion
before any faculty vote. “I am
completing a series of discussions
with every single department on

and calendar to get their advice
and ideas. That discussion will be
completed by the end of January,”
Williams said.

Called an early semester sys-
tem, the calendar under consid-
eration consists of ‘two 15-week
terms divided by a three-week
Christmas vacation following

‘exams.

Educational Policy Commit-
tee members include English Pro-
fessor John Engell, German and
Humanities Professor Hansfor
Epes, Chemistry professor Ralph
Gable, Humanities and Physics
Professor Robert Manning, His-
tory Professor Malcolm Partin,
and Political. Science-~Professor

Lesesne and Alex Maultsby serve
as student representatives.

A curriculum and calendar
panel to be held Wednesday, Feb. -
1f will allow students and faculty
to discuss the semester proposal
with EPC members. Williams,
SGA President Mark Sandy, and
Wittenberg University political
science professor George Hudson
will answer questions. Hudson,
chairman of Wittenberg’s Task
Force on the Academic Program,
is currently directing that univer-
sity’s consideration of an early
semester calendar. Like David-

,3on, Wittenberg presently oper-
‘btes on a trimester system. The

panel will be held at 3 p.m. in the

Beyond Davidson

campus conceming curriculum

Harris Proctor.

Seniors

Jeff 900 Room.

os

Waite arrested’ in Beirut, Casey resigns

By DAVID WILLIAMS

Headlining the News for Jan. 28-
Feb. 4:

Around the World — Soviet
Leader Mikhail Gorbachev called for
secret balloting and a choice of candi-
dates in the Communist party’s elections
of officials. He blamed the Communist
party’s “conservative sentiments” and
“inertia” for past Soviet problems.

President Reagan nominated Jack
Matlock, his top adviser on Soviet af-
fairs, to be Ambassador to the Soviet
Union. The Administration said it will
expand its economic and political con-
tacts with Poland.

West Germany arrested the brother of
Lebanese terrorist suspect Mohammed
Hamadei; officials said the brother is sus-
pected of heavy involvement in the
Beirut kidnappings.

An Islamic group said it would kill
one Indian and three American hostages
if Israel does not release 400 prisoners
within a week.

Two Lebanese militia leaders said
they believe Anglican envoy Terry Waite
had been “arrested” in Beirut. The State
Department barred travel to Lebanon on
U.S. passports. Hojatolislam Rafsanjani,
the speaker of the Iranian Parliament,
justified the seizure of American hos-
tages’ in West Beirut, saying the
Lebanese Had no other way to defend

themselves. Iran arrested and detained
American journalist Gerald Seib and ac-
cused him of espionage.

Hundreds of students in the West
Bank demonstrated in favor of Yasir
Arafat’s guerrilla organization, Al Fatah.
Israeli officials said their government is
reassessing its arms and trade relation-
ship with South Africa.

A bomb blew up a military bus in
Northern Spain, killing two and wound-
ing 41 others. The bombing appeared to
be undertaken by the Basque separatist
group E.T.A.

Oliver Tambo, head of the African
National Congress, met with Secretary of
State George Shultz and called on the
U.S. to urge other countries to impose
economic sanctions on South AFrica.
South African President P.W. Botha im-
posed press restrictions which allow the
police commissioner to ban the publica-

headed for an overwhelming victory in a
plebiscite on her proposed constitution.
The U.S. foiled an attempt by Ferdinand
Marcos to return to the Philippines from
Hawaii. Dissident soldiers ended their
two-day occupation of a Philippines
broadcast station.

Across the Nation — President
Reagan in his State of the Union Address
told Congress his “one major regret” was
his failure to gain the releasé of hostages
in Lebanon and to establish contacts with
Iran. The president introduced a proposal
to improve America’s economic com-
petitiveness, an insurance program to
protect people from catastrophic illnes-
ses, and a new “welfare strategy” to per-
mit states and municipal centers more
flexibility in devising solutions. Mem-
bers of Congress sharply criticized

‘Reagan’s proposals for health insurance,

tion of “any matter” he chooses. Botha __saying the measures did not go far

said new elections to the white house of
Parliament will be held May 6 of this
year.

Chinese prime Minister Zhao Ziyang
said the government’s campaign to limit

dissent will be curtailed. The U.S. estab- ---

lished formal diplomatic relations with
Mongolia.

Unofficial returfis showed Philip-
pines President Corazon Aquino was

enough.

President Reagan vetoed the $20 bil:
lion bill aimed at cleaning up the nation’s
water. However, the House overrode the
veto by a vote of 401-26. The Senate
voted 65-33 to allow states to raise the
speed limit to 65 on rural interstdté high-
ways. fy

William Casey resigned as Director
of the Central Intelligence Agency. Pres-
ident Reagan nominated the agency's

deputy director, Robert M. Gates, to suc-

ceed Casey. White House Communica-
tions Director Pat Buchanan also res-
igned his position.

A Federal Appeals court blocked the
publication of the biography of J.D.
Salinger, saying the book unfairly used
Salinger’s unpublished letters.

The Justice Department called for
greater competition in the telephone in-
dustry by allowing regional companies to
manufacture telephone equipment and
sell electronic information services.

In Economic Headlines — The na-
tion’s monthly trade deficit fell 44 per-
cent in December to $10.6 billion. The
total deficit for 1986 was $169.7 billion.
Japan said it will maintain its quota on
auto exports to the United States for a
seventh year. The United States and the
European Community reached a major
agreement that resolved conflict over
American grain exports to Spain.

__ The President of the Federal Reserve
Bank of New York proposed a revamping
of the American financial system that
would eliminate distinctions between
banks, insurance companies, and sec-
urities firms.

Federal Reserve Board Chairman
Paul Volcker warned the dollar’s decline
is approaching worrisome levels that
could threaten a revival of inflation and

‘high interest rates.

2:
