Spinnakers

Overlooking the harbor at
Davidson is not only a romantic
spot for you and your homecom-
ing honey, but also one of the few
fine dining establishments in
North Mecklenburg County,
Spinnakers at Davidson Landing.
If the nautical motif doesn’t hit
you in the face, then you aren’t
paying attention, but you will
Start paying attention when the
food _ starts
coming...and coming. Anyone
who has ever catered a dinner
event will notice that the napkins
are expertly folded, a different
color at every place. The decor is
late sailboat, with lots of trendy
yachting pictures, stripes and
rope. Over our table hung a 1987
America’s Cup Poster. That was
the year we (the U.S.A.) got it

coming...and,

More RESTAURANT REVIEWS

you, both the food and the service
are impeccable.

We really liked our waiter,
John, who was personable and
attentive. He correctly recom-
mended the hot crab dip ($6.95)
as an appetizer. This blend of arti-
choke hearts, lump crab meat and
cheddar cheese was served with
crackers in a seemingly bottom-
less cup. Our curiosity was
sparked by the. flaming cheese
($5.25) on the menu, but we were
saving our appetites for the rest of
the meal (foresight, which was
greatly rewarded).

The specials (about $12.95)
change every day and depend on
the fish in season. We ordered
grilled swordfish and prime rib--
medium rare--(one for the old salt
and one for the landlubber),
which came with a dinner salad,
rice and garnish (pineapple and an

unidentified green substance).
The salad (House Salad $1.25,
without a meal), a mixed green
vegetable salad with bacon, is
great with the hot bacon dressing.
Other salads range in price from
$3.95 for Antipasto to $5.80 for
the Cobb Salad (grilled, mari-
nated chicken chunks, seryed ona
bed of greens). If the specials

don’t appeal to you, other recom- -

mended entrees include | fajitas
($9.95), Seafood Fettucini
($9.50) and Beef Kabob ($11.25).

The swordfish was right off the
boat, trimmed only a few hours
before. The beef was marinated in
a tangy juice--medium rare had a
warm, pink center. Don’t miss the
really fine house wine (Robert
Mondavi, from Napa Valley,
Calif., at $2.25/glass or $8.50/
bottle) or any of the other fine
selections ($9.36-$29.00/bottle)

from their cellar (those underage
can watch). The entree was served
with a yellow, rice pilaf that
seemed superfluous to the meal;
by the time we got to it, we were
too full to eat it.

But, of course, not too full to
order dessert (about $2.50),
which is brought (for your view-
ing pleasure) to the table on a
giant platter. And once you see it
you can’t resist (one or two,
please). Among the selections
were a “fuzzy navel” pie, a lemon
mousse, a chocolate truffle
mousse, a ch €, a peanut
butter-chocolate pie and a hazel-
nut torte. As John, our waiter,
mentioned, the lémon mousse

Friday, October 7, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

placed on the top). Dessert with a
cup of brewed coffee sent us:on
our way, waddling out the door
into the lake, I mean, car.
Practically, a meal for two with
wine, appetizer and dessert comes
in around $50. Reservations are
recommended, though not re-
quired. Expect a wait of about 30-
45 minutes on Friday and Satur-
day if you don’t have them. Dress .
ranges from casual to semi-for-
mal, because some people walkin |
off the boat for a bite to eat and
others (like us) are out on the
“town.” Don’t be surprised if the
manager pops by your table to
make sure you are enjoying your-
self; he makes it his business to

cleared the palate and the choco- turn out satisfied customers. If
late truffle mousse was just sim- your date insists on a drive to
ply orgasmic (you will know this Charlotte for the evening, take in
pleasurable delicacy by the Spinnakers at the next possible
wedge of chocolate strategically (checkbook willing) date.

back. But don’t let the decor fool

Woody’s Restaurant & Tavern

If you want to go out but you don’t want
to spend too much, and you want to dress up
a little without getting too formal,
Woody’s in Norman Landing (past KFC on
the left) might be the place for you.

The bubble Wurlitzer jukebox and the
Stand By Me soundtrack playing in the
background lend the a ‘50’s.touch to the
clean grey interior with red and pink ac-
cents. The look is neat but somewhat sterile
and “yuppified.” A high ceiling and hard-

Pop Films

wood floor give the ground-level dining
room and bar a open feel, but also serve to
amplify the noise. If you wish to enjoy a
romantic dinner, ask for balcony seating.
The menu offers a little something for
everyone, whether you’re in the mood fora
sandwich or burger, or whether you’d pre-
fer a complete dinner. From between $4-6,
choose from a wide selection of salads, deli
and specialty sandwiches, and burgers with
assorted toppings. The dinner specials
range from ribeye to chicken/shrimp/beef

Another baby film?

By LEE BUSHKELL

As with last summer’ s onslaught of Viet-
nam movies, this summer brought the
viewing public an array of movies about
inept parents dealing with babies they are
obviously unfit to care for. The film Three
Men and a Baby falls into this category.

The tale revolves around three bachelors
who rent an apartment together. Jack (Ted
Danson), Peter (Tom Selleck), and Mi-
chael (Steve Guttenburg) are the prototypi-
cal single men, each with a career which
leaves them with plenty of time to gallivant
around the apartment and throw parties.
The three of them are stereotypical charac-
ters, with little initial depth. There is,
however, a problem. One day after the
winsome actor Jack leaves for Turkey to
film a movie, a baby arrives at the apart-
ment. Peter and Michael’s reaction is typi-

cal and entertaining as they poke and argue
over who will carry the baby inside.

As the next thirty minutes proceed, there
is a cute sequence of the two trying to adapt
to the baby’s demands, and when Jack
returns, they make him go through the
same process. This scene is cute, and the
audience playfully tags along and has as
much fun as the actors seem to.

As soon as the audience is comfortable
with the plot, there is a needless twist. On
the day that Peter and Michael found the
baby, a package arrives full of heroin and
the two attempt to discreetly get rid of it.
The rest of the movie is a combination of
cute baby and drug-oriented scenes which
bore the viewer, and the movie drags. The
suspense supposedly created by the subplot
is false, and the viewer wants to return to
the baby scenes with little or no distraction.

kabobs, and include a baked potato or fries,
and the vegetable of the day or a garden
salad (prices run from $7-10).

In keeping with the bar/restaurant clien-
tele, Woody’s offers a great variety of
appetizers: onion rings, nachos (plain or
grandiose), potato skins, cheese sticks,

' fried vegetables, buffalo wings, chicken

fingers, and “peel your own” shrimp..
Cheesecake, carrot cake, or Woody’s

Delight (a chocolate truffle cake which is.

good, but nothing out of the ordinary)

As the drug runners are single-handedly
caught by the three, there is yet another
complication. The baby’s mother arrives to
reclaim her. There is no doubt in. the
viewer’s mind she will return her, so the
part is meaningless as well. There are, in
fact, several excellent places to end the
movie, but it continues to roll on.

The baby scenes are the salvation of the ~

movie because they let the viewer enjoy the
movie, and Leonard Nemoy’s direction
perfectly captures this playful mood. The
actors seem to be given freedom to be
themselves, and Tom Selleck is excellent
as Peter, for he seemis to really believe in

comprise the dessert menu.

As the menu states, “American Express,
Mastercard and Visa accepted. Oh, cash is
also acceptable. Sorry, no checks.”

On the whole, Woody’s offers good se-
lection, good food and service, and a pleas-
ant but somewhat soulless atmosphere. As
a new restaurant/tavern, it seems still to be
groping for identity. The clientele who
become “Woody’s regulars” will probably
determine which will stand out, the bar or
the restaurant.

his role, making it seem genuine. The real
show stopper, however, is the baby, Mary.
Every scene she is involved in is entertain-
ing, and she and Selleck carry the movie.
Danson and Guttenberg are also good, but
they are overshadowed by the other per-
formances. wn

After viewing Three Men and a Baby, 1
was satisfied. I came into the movie expect-
ing to be entertained, and the jovial nature
of the movie fulfilled my expectations.
This movie falls into the class of the “feel”
good” films, and it is recommended within ,
such a pretext.

Welcome Alumni

Serving the Finest:
* Italian Dishes -~
. @ Pizza
- * Sandwiches
oui Burgers
and
° Salads
Now serving mixed beverages
Lunch 11:00 a.m. - 2:00p.m.
Dinner 5:00 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Come Celebrate With us!

Prt ba

dress “in. Tee car door

