4

Football opinions, pages 10-12

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 12

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, December 5, 1988

Trustee committees recommend
sending football to Division II

By THOMAS H. MOORE

The Executive Committee and
the Athletics Policy Committee
of Davidson’s board of trustees
have jointly recommended that
Davidson’s football team drop
from NCAA Division I-AA to Di-
vision III for the 1989 season. The
announcement was made in a
news conference Tuesday night in
Chambers.

“While everybody seems to
think it is going to happen, it is an
assumption and not a fact,” said
faculty NCAA representative J.B.
Stroud. The recommendation will

be taken up by the full board ata.

special meeting to be held De-
cember 15 or 16.

Football players and staff, in-
formed of .the decision an hour
before the press.conference in. an
emotional meeting, were not
> pleased by the committee’s deci-
sion. “There was lot of emotion,
a lot of anger; it was a-tough
scene,” says College Relations
director Jerry Stockdale, who
moderated the subsequent press
conference. “If the anger was di-
rected at anyone, it was at the
trustees or the trustee commit-
tee.”

“Obviously, we would have

liked to see them honor their
commitment to us,” says head
football coach Vic Gatto, who did
notattend the meeting. “The same
committee discussed it a year ago,
and said they would talk about it
in two years, to give the program
five full years. I don’t pretend to
know what they think. You'll just
have to ask them what their mo-
tives are.”

“What the trustees went
through is every bit as difficult as
what the players are going
through,” says Stroud. “They are
certainly people with a long-time
interest in Davidson athletics. It
was an extremely wrenching ex-
perience for them as well. I don’t
envy them.”

While the future of the program
remains somewhat.up in the air,
Gatto’s job is secure for next sea-
son, according to athletic director
Christopher B. “Kit” Morris.

““He’s still our football coach.”
“I don*treally have any plans in

particular,” says Gatto. “I want to
see what transpires. I’ve been
offered a chance to stay on as
coach.”

The major ramification of the
move would be the elimination of
financial aid assistance that foot-

‘level. of. competition. ~ Future

_ other is Methodist, which I think

ball players currently receive
from the Wildcat Club in accor-
dance with Division III regula-
tions.

Financial aid packages are
divided into three parts: a grant
from the college, a work-study
job and a loan. Each football
player with demonstrated finan-
cial need currently receives an
amount equal to the loan’ and
work-study portion of the pack-
age from the Wildcat Club.

“When players. came ’ to
Davidson, they came with the
idea that their financial aid pack-
ages. would be intact, and our
circumstances have changed
that,” says Morris.

The other major difference be-
tween the two divisions is the

schedules would include small
schools in the Southeast. “In
North Carolina, there is only
Guilford [in Division ITT], and the

will have its first football team
next year,” said Stroud.

“There’s no comparison of the
divisions,” says Gatto.

See FOOTBALL, page 2

Jerry Stockdale addresses the press. rt
Photo by Alex Hayden

Griffith tapped for Arkansas College presidency

By STEWART RAWSON

Vice President for Institutional Ad-
vancement John Griffith will be leaving
Davidson to become President of Arkansas
College in Batesville, Arkansas. Griffith
leaves Davidson with a distinguished rec-
ord of service and many administrative ac-
complishments.

Griffith came to Davidson College in
1979 as Dean of Admissions and Financial
“Aid, during the administration of former
Davidson President Sam Spencer. Griffith
served at that post until 1985 when John
Kuykendall took office and promoted him
to the position of Vice President for Institu-
tional Advancement, which he has held for
four years.

Referring to his time as Dean of Admis-
~ sion, Griffith stressed the great pleasure he
received from knowing “every student”
and maintaining a rapport with the students
during their years at the college. He added,

“my job with the Admissions office was

very rewarding. I enjoyed working with
other schools,. parents and secondary
schools.”

During Griffith’s tenure as the Dean of

Admissions the average SAT of entering

students rose from 1180 to 1240, and the
college organized the very successful
Davidson Alumni Admissions Program
(DAAP). Griffith saw the establishment of

‘DAAP as one of his primary goals and

viewed the dedicated network of alumni as

an influential aspect of the admissions’

process. In 1985 Kuykendall pro-
moted Griffith to Vice President for Institu-
tional Advancement. As head of Institu-
tional Advancement, Griffith has been re-
sponsible for overseeing the activities of
WDAYV, the Wildcat Club, the Develop-
ment Office, College Relations and
Alumni Affairs.

Griffith outlined his major responsibility

‘in this position as preparing the college for —
a very ambitious Capital Endowment

Campaign that has already begun and will -

be presented to the Board of Trustees at the
Spring meeting. The goal of the campaign
will be to generate $150 million for the
endowment of the school. .

Regarding Griffith’s efforts, Vice Presi-
dent for Academic Affairs Dean Robert
Williams said that Griffith “is an energetic
and tireless advocate of moving forward.”
Williams also noted that Griffith has a
“good sense of higher education” and that
he has done a “wonderful job in getting
ready for the major campaign this year.”
Thus far, the campaign has generated
pledges and gifts amounting to $36 million
and hopes to have most major gifts by the
end of this year.

Griffith will remain in. his position at
Davidson until the first of June, at which
time the canapsign should be well estab-
lished.

Griffith added that he feels the best about

ine nae Sa OS be letnies tetiog 0.

undertake the massive campaign. In addi-
tion to the able staff, Griffith feels that the
trustees and other volunteer leadership
have already made a strong effort to gain
commitment for the campaign.

Griffith feels confident that the staff is
well prepared to gain the support necessary
to propel the campaign past its goal. Dur-
ing the three years prior to his time as Vice.
President, Davidson raised an average of
$5 million per year, and in the last three
years under his leadership; the college has
raised an average of $10 million per year.

When asked to comment on these fig-
ures, Griffith enthusiastically stated that he
sees no reason why the college could not
achieve a $20 million per year goal.

Griffith feéls that the college has “a
wonderful President, a top administration
team, the strongest faculty ever and a great

See GRIFFITH, page 5

