Commentaries

The Davicsonian
Friday, January 15, 1988

13

Abolishing fraternities will not dissolve factions

Melissa Dilettuso

‘am a junior on leave from Davidson until spring term
and studying inLos Angeles, California. While I have been
away, [have received and read the Davidsonian somewhat
regularly. Not since Anne Lambert’s Pike Dog articles
have I seen the controversy that Mr. Bogert’s articles
evoked. I, unfortunately, did notreceive the issue in which
his first article appeared. However, I did read the letter
written by Mr. Booker, the articles written by Mr. Harris
and Mr. Stewart, and the second letter written by Mr.
Bogert. So basically I got the gist of the first one.

Ican understand why so many found such contempt with
Mr. Bogert’s accusations. Mr. Booker concentrated on
those aimed towards his fraternity, Mr. Harris on the
author’s narrowmindedness and Mr. Stewart on the diver-
sity of fraternity members. I would like to address two
issues: the replacement of fraternities with self-selected
eating houses and the “sheltered lives” which fraternity
members have led.

Iam amember of a women’s eating house which adheres
to the self-selection policy. As a proud member of the
house which is sometimes known as the Husk House, I
would have to say that fraternities have not comered the.
market on social factions. I do not believe anyone would
argue that Warner Hall, Rusk, Spencer and Pax are faction-
free. Allof these houses have been stereotyped by students,

administration and faculty, Mr. Bogert argues that these.

self-selected houses offer students the opportunity to
choose a house at which they will feel most comfortable.

Generally. this means self-selecting a house whose mem-
bers they feel have interests common to their own. By
definition, self-selection divides. Any group or club does.
Does this necessarily instill narrowness? Ifso, 1 suppose we
have the narrowestrelationships with those who are closest
to us.

Ifone were to mention my name at Davidson and ask into
what “factions” (or categories) I could be divided, the
responses would most likely be something like “Yankee,”

“junior,” “Wop,” “English major;” “Husky Rusky” (or:

cow), and all the connotations that follow these adjectives.
People and groups—institutions as well—are labeled.
They always have been and always will be—and this
creates divisions. Now, notall labels are derogatory. I only
find one of the previously mentioned offensive. Labels and
divisions can be found in all aspects of life. This is not to
say these alone create rivalry and animosity. Neither is
synonymous with “prejudice” or “bigotry.” Those are
characteristics instilled in us long before we enter
Davidson’s gates. Abolishing fraternities will not dissolve
the factions simply because they are not the: cause—nor the
catalyst.

In regard to Mr. Bogert’s statement, “The majority of
students joining them [fraternities] are white, they are of
thé upper-middle/lower-upper class, they have always
lived very sheltered lives, most have always associated
with people of similar backgrounds,” I am positively
enraged. Granted, most fraternity members are white and
of the upper-middle class, as are members of self-selected
eating houses and the Davidson student body. If that is Mr.
Bogert’s argument _. suggest he take his complaint to the
admissions office. As for sheltered lives, I believe Mr.
Bogert is sorely mistaken. I would say I know more than
ahandful of members from several fraternities wellenough

to judge the level of “shelteredness” in their lives. First, let
me say I have lived in two foreign countries and eight states,
have. worked in positions ranging from grocery store
cashier to barn hand-to waitress m an exclusive restaurant,
and have been a member of a family which has risén from
living in a one-bedroom apartment in Chicago, Illinois to
a four-bedroom home in New York City’s suburbs. So-you
can see living a sheltered life is not something with which
I am familiar or which I envy. I have met fraternity
members whose parents struggle to provide them with a
private, college education and those whose see the tuition
as pocket change. I have met members whose fathers are
high school coaches, politicians, college professors, min-
isters, colonels, judges, doctors and farmers. Are you
implying, Mr. Bogert, that a poverty-stricken life is syn-
onymous with an unsheltered life? I have met fraternity
members from Alaska, the posh suburbs of Chicago, the
Amish countryside of Pennsylvania, the dairy farm land of
Wisconsin, the mountains of Virginia, the inner city of
Washington, D.C.,and the exclusive suburbs of New York.
Have I made my point? Those who are sheltered are those
who cannot or refuse to see life as it occurs around them.
Yes, the Davidson community is sheltered if that is all one
is able or allowsone to see. But land many of my fraternity
friends have escaped Davidson's “‘confines”—as you see
them—and have witnessed much that we may hope never
to experience.

I hope Mr. Bogert sees the misdirection his accusations
have taken. Fraternities may not be perfect, neither are the

- self-selected eating houses, nor is Davidson College, and

certainly, neither is life.

Melissa B. Dilettuso isa junior Englishmajor from Weston,
Connecticut.

Davidson College needs to hire more professors

Lucia Kendall

Excited about another term of classes at Davidson, you
fill out your course preference sheet and turn it in to your
adviser. A few weeks later, when you pick up your
schedule, you realize that once again you are signed up for
only two classes. You waste three hours waiting in line on
the day of schedule adjustments, only to discover that the
only courses with spaces are Sanskrit 103 and Quantum
Mechanics. You stand in line another twenty minutes so
Mrs. Hogg can type the code number of your latest enter-
prise into the computer. Walking to dinner, you try
desperately to convince yourself that a whole new world of
excitement awaits you since. you will soon be able to
converse fluently with every Sanskrit-speaker you happen
to come across. It doesn’t work.

Every Davidson student has experienced a situation
similar to this one. Many, like me, have gone through it
every term. Although resourceful students can take advan-
tage of drop/add lines as a chance to enjoy Toni Morrison’s
latest novel or to meet a potential homecoming date, the
problem remains: Davidson does not offer enough classes.

This problem is not simply a matter of a ‘students not
getting a class they want. It’s a matter of getting any
classes. During the drop/add period for Winter term, the
entire religion department had only two classes with open-
ings. In the history department, every class but one had
filled up or even burst through the ceiling. These examples
are not worst-case scenarios; they represent the situation in
other departments as well.

_ The restrictions placed on the number of classes
‘Davidson offers maims the quality of education in several
ways.

First, students are missing the chance to take classes that
should be available to them, even at a small school. With
all the windy promotion of a “global perspective,” why is
it that unless a student is willing to invest two years in
Humanities, he cannot take a class in world literature?
Davidson doesn't offer one. Last summer a friend from a
New England college as small as Davidson told me thatshe:
was considering majoring in Women’s Studies. She asked
me how the Women’s Studies Department at Davidson

was. “Well,” I stumbled, “we don’t exactly have a
Women’s Studies Department.” “Oh, what category do
Women’s Studies courses fall under?” “We, uh, don’t
actually have any Women’s Studies courses.”

The second problem that results from not having enough
classes is that there is not enough space in the classes
Davidson does offer. Consequently, students are often
forced to sacrifice getting into the courses they really want
to take so that they can meet area requirements. Ifa student
puts Biology 21 down as her first choice, she risks allowing
that Dr. Lewis’s class on Shakespeare, which she is dying
to take, will be filled by the time the computer gets around
to her second choice.

Third, the problem of not enough space is even more
pronounced for underclassmen. Freshmen and sopho-
mores have to make sure they get area requirements out of
the way at the same time that they explore fields they are
interested in so that they can decide on a major. Also, the
introductory courses, which they need most, fill up the
fastest. As if these difficulties were not enough, the
computer looks at the courses freshmen and sophomores
wantto take only after the other half of the student body has
had first pick of the best classes.

Three possible solutions could deal with to the problem
of not having enough classes. Only one, however, is
realistic.

First, we could enlarge class sizes. This would permit

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
_ adhere to the following guidelines:
« All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.
¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to
them).
+ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Tuesday before
the expected publication date.
« Allcommentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Monday
before the expected publication date, except for those on disk-
. ette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Tuesday.
¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

=

Opinions Policy

more students to get into the courses they wanted, although
it would not solve the difficulty of the limited variety of
classes available. Unfortunately, larger classes decrease
thé quality of education. It’s hard to discuss Paradise Lost
effectively with a group of 75 students. Foreign language
students would have less chance to speak in class. Each
science student in a lab would have less time with her
professor and would have to wait longer for attention. In
teaching, a professor cannot interact effectively with 100
student faces in every lecture. Personal relationships
would be sacrificed because of lack of contact. Larger
classes would take away some of Davidson’s most precious |
virtues.

A second possibility: the professors Davidson already
has could teach more classes. If there were fifty hours in
a day instead of twenty-four, this proposal might work. As
it is, professors already have to juggle preparing lectures,
evaluating student work, helping advisees, attending
committee meetings, keeping current on scholarship in
their fields, researching and writing for publication, and
managing numerous other miscellaneous jobs such as
writing student recommendations. All this, of course, is in’
addition to maintaining their own personal and family lives
and keeping what little sanity they have left. Adding aclass

See PROFESSORS, p. 14

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish theirnames
printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

+ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter. ,

The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

« All submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author's home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of study (or
profession).

