Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN 11

CAL SN SNAKE

PRESENTS OS OY a Fe a THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor

AS A SOCIAL, ANIMAL

. Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Cr How WE Gor mis WAY THIS Fast) John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
—JOMNLENSEL David Host, Opinions Editor
op PY gf Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
a—~~4 a my ge 4! Margaret Carroll, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland,
. AB Section Production Editors
ate Sata
ors
~

oS

2s GB
5) Ban |S
in

F ;

Opinions Policy

The Davidsonian. welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers.. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines: .

* All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community. :

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them).

*All letters must-be submitted by 7 p.m, on the Sunday before:
the expected publication date.

«All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday
before the expected publication date, except for those on disk-
ette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Monday. :

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the
editors with compelling reasons if they do not wish their
names printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style, .
but for the rules of English grammar only. If you write
something that makes you look really, really stupid, we’re not
going to pull your head out of the noose.

¢ The editors will attempt to verify factual information con-
tained in commentaries, but in the final reckoning before God, °
lawyers, administrators, or other. angry readers, fault will lay’
with the writer of the piece.

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

* The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-

rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other

letters printed dealing with the same topic. Mere whim is also |

a right reserved by the editors.

- All submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, graduating plats, and major field of study (or
profession). :

Party, Party ..

This weekend, freshmen hit the court in full force. They: are
about to catch a virulent case of what one administrator calls “The
Davidson Disease”: Party, party, party. —

Although this ailment may not have originated here and the
natives, when compared to other college populations, are not
unusually susceptible to it, the “disease” is a serious problem. It’s
less a problem of the social situation we find ourselves in here
than of the age we are.

The age group that attends college is also the age e group of the
ideal helicopter pilot. The average Army combat helicopter pilot
in Vietnam was nineteen years old. Nineteen years old because
everyone that age thinks he’s invincible, he’s immortal. He’ll
drop his helicopter anywhere under any conditions. A common
misconception among freshmen and others is a similar sense of

- invulnerability; I can handle the social life here and dnywhere,

they say.

Well, perhaps you can, but it’s going to be expensive finding out
if: you can’t, isn’t it? A word of wisdom from an upperclassman
in our. pages two weeks ago was, “Court parties aren’t what
they’re made out to be.” They can be fun, to be sure, and are a
reasonably good way to blow off some steam every once in a
while, but only if attended in moderation.

The message here is?: Take it easy. There’s little need to party
as hard as you work. The so-called “Davidson Disease” is less the
parties themselves and more an honest-to-God disease: alcohol-
ism.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson
College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.
Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student
Union building; to find us, roll up your sleeves and feel around for the least air- |
conditioned room in the entire building: that’s us. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of
The Davidsonian; in fact, in the interest of journalistic objectivity, we disagree with
everything that has ever been written to us. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per

"year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held
by the Trustees of Davidson College; they don’t trust us with it. — ;

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum; Margaret Carroll, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria
Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne
Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman,
Margaret Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert
Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall,

Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’ Shields, Sharon
Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie
Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dasculiets Robert Grubb,

John Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott,
Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway,
Stephen Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.’

Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.

Circulation Staff: Holme, give me the list!

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.

