Monday, November 7, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

George Bush for President

_ David L. Host

In 1980, George Bush challenged Ronald Re-
agan for the Republican Presidential nomination
as the experienced, moderate alternative to Re-
agan’s conservatism. One of his campaign slo-
gans touted him as “a President we won’t have to
train.” This statement referred to Bush’s wide
experience in government, especially in foreign
affairs, as a contrast to the relative inexperience at
the federal level of two former governors, Jimmy
Carter and Ronald Reagan. Bush ran for the
Presidency in 1980 as the choice of a solid major-
ity of Republican Party leaders as a result of
respect for his experience and ability. Bush’s
eight years as Vice President have resulted in the
substitution of generally negative images, how-
ever. In place of the image of competence and
experience that Bush enjoyed in 1980 prevail an
appearance of weakness and opportunism, as well
as questions about his integrity. As a result, even
many potential voters for Bush claim that they are
not necessarily voting for the man himself, but
against Michael Dukakis, or for the policies that
Bush might pursue. An in-depth analysis of
George Bush, devoid of media interpretations,
reveals a picture more in line with that of 1980,
however. The character and competence of
George Bush would result in a Presidency that
would equal, and perhaps exceed the accomplish-
ments of the Reagan Administration, while cor-
recting some of its failings.

Bush’s opponents, as well as the media to a
great‘extent, attempt to compare the George Bush
of 1988 with the George Bush of 1980 unfavora-

bly, so as to discard any information about him-

outside of his performance as Vice President as
irrelevant. They claim that Bush, in a fit of oppor-
tunism, discarded his disagreements with Ronald
Reagan, as well as all sense of principle, in his
intent to be a “loyal” Vice President. They exca-
vate such terms as “voodoo economics,” a term

that Bush used to criticize elements of Reagan’s
economic proposals during the 1980 primaries, to
demonstrate this point. Those opponents who
criticize Bush on the basis of his Vice Presidency
misunderstand the Vice President’s role in an
administration, however. Whereas a Vice Presi-
dent may disagree with the President under whom
he serves privately, his job constrains him from
public disagreement, as such disagreement would
undermine the President’s ability to implement
his programs. Throughout the course of the Re-
agan Administration, Bush has demonstrated his
loyalty in a manner which emphasizes his quali-
ties,-rather than any shortcomings. Unlike Ad-
ministration members such as Donald Regan and
David Stockman, who aired their disagreements
for personal gain, Bush has subjugated his image
to that of the man whom he pledged to serve in
July of 1980. When Bush was confronted with the
crisis surrounding the assassination attempt upon
President Reagan in March, 1981, he refused to
promote himself as the one “in charge” through
personal grandstanding. He instead quietly and
efficiently made certain that the Administration
operated smoothly until Reagan could com-
pletely reassume his role as President. This re-
fusal to

upstage Ronald Reagan has been a continuing
feature of George Bush’s Vice Presidency. While
a media hungry for controversy and conflict has
portrayed this aspect of Bush’s character nega-
tively, such selflessness is essential to effective
government. While a healthy amount of internal

_ debate within an administration also plays a criti-

cal role in policy making, public strife involving
administration members only damages a Presi-
dent’s ability to lead. One only has to look as far
as the Reagan and Carter Administrations for
illustrations of this fact. The American people in
1980 and 1984 elected George Bush to serve
under Ronald Reagan and his policies, not to
pursue his own antagonistic path.

Bush has waited patiently to reassert his own

Candidates deserve respect

S. Christopher Kelly

Last week, I had a golden opportunity. Being a
well-connected and notoriously partisan College
Republican, I decided to go see Senator Dan
Quayle at the Mallard Creek barbeque. I was
looking forward to it, and, of course, arranging
my schedule accordingly. After skipping (what
else?) my political science class, I met Boyd
Miller in the parking lot outside Richardson. We
decided to head straight for UNC-Charlotte,
where Quayle would be joined by Congressman
Alex McMillan and Mayor Sue Myrick. It was to
be a very interesting and edifying day.

Actually, my day started the night before, with
the 11:00 PM news. The UNCC College Demo-
crats were holding a protest in front of the Ken-
nedy building. The “vigil,” as it was termed by a
newscaster, lasted all night long - in freezing cold
weather, not to mention that I’m sure these people
had classes the next day. I don’t think their week-

~ends start on Thursday night like ours-do. “Oh -

Lord,” I thought, “what am I getting myself into
now?”

Boyd and J arrived at around 10: 00 AM, and the
Plaza was packed. It was funny, I thought, that I
had heard that in order to get a good seat, that I
should show up at 10:30 AM. I didn’t even geta

good place to stand. This brings me to my point.

deficit!” and “No more lies.”

Standing beside me was a throng of UNCC Col-
lege Democrats holding Dukakis/Bentsen signs,
Bob Jordan signs, Mark Sholander signs, and so
on. A young lady beside me said that she felt that
no matter who was elected, we’d still be poor. She
told me that she felt that neither of the candidates
addressed the issues, but that both engaged in
mudslinging and would probably raise taxes. She
also said that she was an avid Dukakis supporter.
__A huge contingent of UNCC College Demo-
crats had shown up. Being a Davidson student, it
wasn’t hard to figure out that they were not there

_inashow of support for the Republicans. I had fun

reading some of the signs - the slogans read
something like this: “Dan Quayle is a sissy rich
boy,” “Trouble, Dan? Call daddy at 1-800-WAH-
WAH,” and “What was your golf handicap during
the Vietnam War?” The last slogan made me
think, though. I figure that Quayle’s handicap was
probably about the same as Governor Dukakis’

was during the Korean ‘War. The Democrats -

began to yell “Noriega-Bush,” “billion dollar
I have my own

13

vision for eight years while performing the role of
Vice President as he interpreted it. When he
officially received the Republican nomination for
President in August, he felt that he finally had a
mandate to proceed on his own independent path.
While many of his proposals are a continuation of
Reagan Administration policy, a return to some
of Bush’s more moderate positions which he held
in 1980 is also apparent. His concern for the
environment, his concentration on finding alter-
native means to extend government aid, as well as
his desire for productive but cautious arms reduc-
tions represent such views. His “voodoo econom-
ics” comment of 1980 referred not to a disagree-
ment with the fundamental precepts of the Re-
agan tax Cut proposals, but to the idea of some
supply-side economists that, despite such cuts,
the economy could “grow” out of adeficit. Bush’s
“flexible freeze” budgetary proposal represents a
responsible first step in Presidential leadership
aimed at bringing government spending under
control; an aspect sorely lacking in the Reagan
Administration’s economic policies. A Bush
Administration would concentrate less on ideol-
ogy and panaceas in policy making. It would con-
centrate instead on putting the tools in place for
dealing with some of the problems that the Re-
agan Administration has left behind. The Reagan
Administration’s policies have been very suc-
cessful when compared to the failures that pre-
ceeded them, but George Bush understands that
many problems remain which may require adjust-
ments in some policies for their solution.
Opponents have attempted to portray Bush as a
product of privilege who has by no merit of his
own advanced into governmental positions. They
also have claimed that upon leaving those posi-
tions, he “left no fingerprints.” Even a cursory
examination of Bush’s career refutes such a posi-
tion. Bush served as the American envoy to China

See CANDIDATE , page 14

didates. A few comments came from conserva-
tive supporters, believing themselves provoked,
although most of their comments were directed at
being courteous enough to quiet down so that the
candidates could be heard.

I find it hard to believe that college students,
especially the UNCC College Democrats, believe
that their opinions are so correct that we don’t
need to hear anyone else’s. opinions. By being
present, they do show their concern for our nation
and the issues facing it. By being rude and inter-
rupting the candidates, they show their ignorance,
and certainly do not help their cause. I hope that
in the future, both the Democratic and Republican
candidates conduct themselves much better than
their supporters have. In my opinion, both
Dukakis and Bentsen have conducted. uncivil
campaigns, and indeed must share a large portion
of the responsibility for their own mudslinging as
wellas that of their supporters. Somehow, I guess,
they do not feel confident enough in conducting a
positive’ campaign that they must dogmatically
shout down their opposition. In that regard, Sena-

thoughts on these issues, but that’s not my focus
now. They yelled these, among other unmention-
ables, before, during, and after Congressman
McMillan’s, Governor Martin’s, and Senator
Quayle’s speeches. Their interruptions prompted

responses for order, as well as even a little mud-"

slinging at the College Democrats, from the can-

_ Science major from Lynchburg, VA..°

tor Quayle’s comments are not only expected, but

appropriate: “You see, they don’t have anything
to say. They just babble. They don’t talk about
ideas because they don’t have any.”

S. Chrisopher Kelly is a sophomore political

.“)
