“Awards convocation winners, p. 11

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXIX, Number 6

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

uo Friday, April 22, 1988

Burglars rob student store, steal rings worth $2000

By MUADI MUKENGE

Burglars broke a window to
enter the Davidson College stu-
dent store early last Monday
morning; 10 class rings worth ap-
proximately $2000 were taken.

Store manager Chloe Myers
states that this is the first time that
the store has been broken into dur-
ing the past ten years that she has
been an employee.

The class rings were kept in an
unlocked glass case near the cash
register.

The broken window was dis-
covered by store employees
Glenda Irwin and Pat Wilsona few
minutes after 8:30 a.m., the regu-
lar opening time. A deck of
Davidson playing cards were on
the window sill instead of in their
usual place in the glass case near
the cash register. It was when the
cards were taken to their rightful
place that the class rings were dis-
covered missing. The college se-
curity was called, then the
Davidson police were alerted.

Also taken were a letter opener
and gold-plated as well as silver
blazer buttons. The store was not
ransacked.

“Whoever did it obviously
knew what they came to get,” said
Myers.

The windows are located in the
back of the store, on the far left
side. They are on ground level
from the outside, where the cafe

loading dock is sittnied.
The window panes were bro-
ken, and the latch opened to allow

entry. The burglars exited the.

same way. Door locks were not
tampered with. The broken win-
dows are unbarred, unlike another
pair of windows in the store.

The windows open out approxi-
mately one foot high and 20
inches wide. Therefore, the police
speculate the burglars to have
been small in stature. This hunch
is supported by the fact that the
bookshelf under the window is
very light and unstable—unable
to bear a heavy person. None of
the books on the shelf were dis-
turbed.

According to Myers, the police
regularly walk by the window as
they leave the Union cafe with the
evening’s cash tendings. The cafe
closed at 1 a.m. Police speculate
that the break-in occured early
Monday between that time and
dawn.

Myers and another worker had
worked on Saturday until 5 p.m.,
past the usual 12 noon closing
time. Upon arriving at her desk

Monday morning, she noticed that

her desk, which she had cleared
and dusted, had tree debris scat-
tered on it. Apparently, the bur-
glars had searched her desk. Fin-
gerprints were taken by the police.

The store has no problem with
shoplifters. In fact, says Myers,

Thieves broke this window and turned the latch to eriter the store. Police:

ES tise.
ee

; , he ps
“Robert Nesbit

speculate that they may have been lightweight individuals, as they did not upset
the books arranged on the shelves when making their escape.

“we thought students were happy
with our store.” (It is not specu-
lated that students committed the
crime).

The break-in has caused Myers
and other employees concern for
their own safety.

“T sometimes come in and work

on weekends and I’m not sure I’ll
do that again,” said Myers. “It
gives you a different feeling when
you know you’re vulnerable.”

_ The store has no burglary sys-
tem, but Myers says that plans are
being made to take additional
security measures.

The company which sells the
class rings, Josten’s, was given a
list of the stolen items. Davidson
has been a client of Josten’s for
two years.

As of press time, the college
security had no leads as to the
identity of the burglars.

CCRL approves SGA’s new freshman rush policy

By TRIPP HELMS

Ina meeting Wednesday, the Committee
on Campus and Religious Life approved a
policy concerning freshman rush presented
by the Student Government Association.

The policy aims to lessen the central role
that alcohol plays in Patterson Court func-
tions during the period that freshmen are
choosing a house, according to SGA presi-
dent Harrison Murray.

“We are trying to emulate the Spring
Frolics type atmosphere, where alcohol
was present on the periphery, but was not a
central element. People were playing
hackey sack, listening to the band and
having fun,” says Murray.

The policy proposes campus-wide activi-
ties to take place between the third week of
school and the time that freshman are al-
lowed to go to the Court unrestricted.

These activities will require full support
of the Court, both “financially and organi-
zationally,” Murray says. The policy stipu-
lates a financial contribution from each

inside

house. The CoHege Union and the Dean of
Students Office may also lend financial and
advisory support.

To help organize events and create enthu-
siasm for the program, Murray hopes that a
committee consisting of representatives

from the houses onthe Court, the Unionand —

other constituent organizations will be
formed.

The policy is a result of some weeks of
discussion in the Senate concerning the
present rush system. The administration
suggested that dry rush might be a possible
solution to the alcohol problems associated
with selection.

Under the present system, many feel that
freshmen experience great deal of pressure
to drink in order to feel accepted on the
Court. Another concern is that many fresh-
men meet house members when they are
drunk and form misleading impressions.

According to Murray, there is a “strong
faculty contingent that would like to see
Patterson Court severely altered because of

concerns about the amount of alcohol con-
sumed at parties and the lateness of the
weeknight functions. They don’t want to
see Davidson turn into a party school.”

The administration saw dry rush, aperiod
of. time when no Court parties open to
freshmen would serve alcohol, as a possible
solution to these problems. Proponents of
the system cited Kappa Sigma Fraternity’s
success with a dry rush period. The house /
supplemented normal functions with: band
parties and comedy nights.

SGA discussion of the system brought
immediate negative reaction from the
Court, says Murray. Most were not in favor
of a dry rush mandated by the administra-
tion. Patterson Court Senators Caryn Cop-
pedge and David Cors made several pro-
posals concerning the alternate policy.

Murray feels that the proposed change
will not only affect the freshmen, but the
campus as a whole. “This policy can bring
student-faculty interaction and involve the
whole campus.”

f

The Patterson Court Council will review
the policy at their next meeting. Three-
fourths of the houses must approve the
policy for it to be passed.

The text of the resolution reads, in part,

“... WHEREAS, several maladaptive at-
titiides in regard to alcohol have pervaded
our community and manifested themselves
in increased violence, vandalism, and ani-
‘mosity, and ;
.. WHEREAS, the student body would
negatively react to any overt, administra-
tive policy such as dry rush, which would
limit the right of the individual to free
choice .

“LET IT BE RESOLVED THAT .
events of such a [non-alcohol-oriented]
nature will be designed to promote notonly .
mature alcohol usage but also total campus
interaction and harmony.

, +++ This will allow Patterson Court houses
to come together for a common purpose,
thus reducing present tensions which may

