Ortmayer in Presidential race! p. 3

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXVIII, Number 11

Davidson College, Davidson; North Carolina 28036

Friday, January 15, 1988

New dorm construction
stalled in planning stages

August completion deadline ts called into question

By TRIPP HELMS

Architects are still drawing
plans for the three apartment-style
dormitories to be built between
the soccer field and the Covington
Golf Facility. The deadline for
completion of the project has been
set for August 20, but a late start
has brought this projection into
question.

The dorms were proposed ‘in
September and a set of plans was
drawn for two-story dorms with a
capacity of 128 students. In early
November, the plans were
changed to three-story structures
housing 144 students.

According to Grover Meetze,
Director of Facilities Planning,
the

change. in plans is the reason. for.

the delay in construction.

Little and Associates, a Char-

lotte architecture firm, was hired
to draw the plans. The firm is now
in the process of revising the first
set of plans. Architect Jim Metze
promises that the new plans will
be finished by Monday, January
a.

Once the plans are finished,
contractors at Barger Construc-
tion in Mooresville will begin the
process that leads to construction,
says spokesperson John Johnson.
Clearing and grading, the first step
in the construction, will start three
to four weeks after Barger re-
ceives the plans. Johnson says that
the finish date will be determined
by the specific demands of those
plans, and -he will not commit
himself. to projecting a definite
completion date. When asked
about the August deadline,
Johnson said “I just don’t know...

I can’t say until I see the plans...
they should be completed by early
fall at the latest.”

Johnson says that the timetable
will depend on many factors: the
availability of building materials
like brick, limestone and steel; the
schedules of his subcontractors;
and the weather conditions. The
project “seems to be fairly
simple” and Johnson does not
anticipate any unusual difficulties
with the construction.

President John Kuykendall

and Director of Residence Life
Tom Jennings maintain that the
construction will be completed by
August 20. Kuykendall states
simply, “It [the construction] will
be done.”

See DORMS, p. 3

beer ewinlt =

ern Dean OF

eee talent show.

MCI OES

del ts | F aula — warbles at last night's
: ‘Photo by Robert Nesbit

Cornelson Lecturer Eisner sheds light on federal deficit

By WHIT WILKS and
DOUG POLAK

On Wednesday evening Dr. Robert
Eisner, current president of the American
Economic Association, spoke on “The
Budget Deficit: Myths and Realities.” This
was part of the Cornelson lecture series in
economics. Eisner began his discussion by
stating that many use, but few understand
the correct meaning of the terms deficit and
debt. He explained that one’s deficit is the
excess of expenditures over receipts. To
make up the differencs, one must borrow,
and this act adds to one’s debt.

He compared and contrasted the gov-
ernment deficit to that of major private
corporations such as GM and IBM. Be-
cause of separate capital accounts, Eisner
said, the private corporations are able to
hide their deficit and show a profit.

He cited the examples of GM and IBM,
which are presently running 27.9 and 16.3
million dollar deficits respectively, yet
which are able to mask this deficit in a
capital investment asset. The government
is not able to create such an account; there-
fore its expenditures cannot be distributed
to various productive asset accounts.

Eisner commented that it appears the
federal debt has been growing, but when
one makes adjustments for inflation, the
figure is not as overwhelming.

He noted that few people measure the
debt issue in real terms, and that if this

method were more widely implemented,
one would find in the early 1980s an actual
government surplus. The notion of current
dollars adjusted for inflation is a concept
Eisner would like to see given more impor-
tance.

Eisner went on to add that the deficit has
acertain unwarranted stigma attached to it.
The notion that the Dow drops due to cor-
relation to the deficit is ludicrous, accord-
ing to Eisner. With the use of a graph, he
pointed out a strong historical correlation
between large deficits and a strong Dow
average.

He went on to state that since 1982, the
U.S. has been running a real deficit.
Unemploymentskyrocketed to over 10% in

1982. Since then, we have undergone a

period of recovery, and the figure has
dropped to 5.7% He reinforced the idea
that deficits are an important matter, but
only when considered in relation to issues
such as percentage of GNP. In a table,
Eisner showed that in 1946 the deficit was
119.8 % of total GNP. By 1980, this figure
was reduced to 27.8%. No one was con-
cerned with the Truman deficit instability,
yet today our deficit causes great concern.

Keynesian economics clearly supports a
government deficit as a means to stimulate
a nation’s economy. Eisner also feels that
a productive deficitis perfectly acceptable.
Many of us today worry about our grand-

children and their responsibility to the debt.

Eisner contends that cutbacks in the deficit
now could be more detrimental to our
grandchildren’s future than a continued
increase in spending. Cutting back on
expenditures for education and develop-
ment would be counterproductive td the
country’s goals.

Concentration

Eisner suggests a 6% growth rule in
accord with the growth of real GNP. This:
way there would be no real deficit at all.
Right now, the deficit growth is above this

See EISNER, p. 3

approved In

International Studies

By KATHERINE PRICE

In a December meeting, Davidson fac-
ulty members voted to include a “Concen-
tration in International Studies” among the
changes in the academic curriculum for
1988-89. While the upcoming change from
a quarter system to a semester system has
been publicized widely, few students are
aware of the new Concentration in Interna-
tional Studies and the opportunities it will
bring.

The Concentration in International Stud-

_ies will allow students to “receive transcript

It will enable students interested in an inter-
national career to put a strong foundation
under those plans while stillan undergradu-
ate.” Currently, students may choose a
major course of study to be noted on theaca-
demic transcript, but minor fields of inter-
est receive no recognition.

Students pursuing the Concentration in
International Studies must submit a written
application to the International Education
Committee during the first semester of their
junior year. Requirements include six

acknowledgement” of international study
and exposure. Students can express inter-
national career interest on their official
transcript, in addition to completing major
department requirements. Director Jack
Perry of the Dean Rusk Program explains,
“For the Rugk Program, and promoting
international studies, this is a major move.

Inside

coe anet Gao

| me Crisis: new ‘name,

eee Ss Se
ey RR Sri

courses in international studies, foreign _
language proficiency, and experience
abroad. Dr. C. Earl Edmondson, who was
instrumental in formulating the require-
ments, adds, “We hope that the concentra-
tion will encourage students in general to

See CONCENTRATION, p. 3

