ucsday, December 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

1]

2 LA FABRE T IIA
r . ;

AAA A AAA A

FEPSTY WET VG HORNETS woo

PITRE

DO You SUPPOSE THAT one
ATHLETIC TROUBLES HAVE
WAD ANY IMPACT ON MORALE?

Phonathon & Divestment

Dear Editor:

Asa Davidson alumnus, I received a call “

this week from a student volunteer asking
for a donation to the Annual Fund. ° After
explaining that I regretfully could not make

a contribution until Davidson totally di-

vests its endowment funds from companies
doing business in South Africa, I ee
reply which floored me.

The student said, “‘We were told that if
we received a reply like that we should say
that none of the Annual Fund contributions
would be used for activities in South Af,
rica Bode Rex

One fellow alumnus; Trelated this call to,
shook his head ‘and said, ‘“That’s an insult.

Is Davidson some huckster selling ' vacuum

cleaners?"

The student’s ‘scripted reply not only |

reveals the fee s ‘ignorance about the

ob _ The Real: Reason ~

Dear Editor:

Davidson College. recently announced -
plans to: play football at the Division IT .

level instead of Division IAA. ‘The admini-
stration cites the expense of competing in
the Colonial League and compliance with
Title IX as reasons for this decision. These

issues lie at the surface but are not the real -

reasons, for cutting back the football pro-<

gram.
Four years ago, while I was stilla student

at Davidson College, I overheard a conver-.

sation between Davidson professor and a

group of students one night at the Peregrine -

House-restaurant. The professor; said, in
essence, that Davidson was.no. place for

football players. -He said that they cheated. -

to get by, that the college really, ageded a: -
P.E. major to accommodate:them, and that: «
they don’t ‘integrate socially.’’ later con-
fronted that professor, and he agreed that a
number of players (he:graciously included
me) didnot fit that stereotype... But I left
him with the feeling that maybe he was not .
alone among the faculty in his‘beliefs.-

nature of the call for divestment, but also
fraises questions about whether the college
is fulfilling its key function, which is to
teach ‘student to think analytically for
themselves.

Instead of a scripted distortion of the
issue, the college should be up front about
the Trustee policy, namely that the Trus-
tees do not recognize the relevance of
Davidson divesting despite the call for such
action from faculty, students, aluni, the
wider community, and, most importantly,

black and white church and anti-apartheid _

leaders in South Africa, .
Letus keep the debate on the issue where

support for the white apartheid an oem
in South Africa. on 7”

Sincerely, ;
Monroe T. Gilmour, Jr: *68°

Sine and we dare not threaten the collective

intellectual ego of Davidson’s eacnity and -

administration:
Now let’s see what is at stake i in the vote’
to finalize the drop to Division III: :
- Currently, many football players receive

seced tase Gaksolal Hid Gales ty: tic:

Wildcat Club. This aid enables people who
otherwise could not afford Davidson Col-
Jegé to obtain a.quality education and per-
haps achieve a higher standard of living
that a Davidson diploma can bring. An
entire social class of people may be com-

pletely removed from Davidson College.’

Perhaps: the: elimination of this type of
; person.is a part of the =a to move to
- Division III. '

The players who are there pares now will

‘lose: the most. After years ‘of » work for ©
some, they-will face a decision to leave or:

paly. at an unacceptable level. They may

have to find a work study jobto pay for that ~
honor. The best players will leave.-Among -

them will be some of Davidson’s best stu-"

‘dents. They, must deal with the unfulfilled ©

. promise of a college whose leaders do not

The, real reason” the, college is: cutting. % ee eee et

‘back football is thatthe faculty and admini- -
stration believe that competitive athletics -

theit decision:::  < 4
£7 Sea Capaditicd ‘th Seidc-this tater be

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor

+]. Sharon.Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler:: ~~ ; oe

in general.and: football in:particular will . cause the. college is saying .it no longer >
ited by: ©

compromise the academie standards of the. : wants graduates like me. I was recrui

college and jeopardize its reputation. They: and accepted by three: Ivy League-schools.' |
do not believe: that.the college can have I was.recruitéd by the'military academies:

good football and great-academics, espe: -, as well. Maybe the Board of ‘Trustees can

cially in,a student: body of:1,400. The - ee Se rome rome terk ante tne ze

money would be there, I would think, for hderaecisieuacunsahe
all sports, but then student athletes would- -

comprise a large proportion of the student - Sincerely, os
body, which would be unacceptable to the
faculty. They think their prestige isonthe Kirk T. Gavel "85.

The plan

Since the first rumblings about football several weeks ago, a lot of ground has
been covered. The trustee committees announced their recommendation to send
football to Division III, the players reacted in fervent support of their sport, and,
most recently, the Faculty Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics presented its
report to the faculty, and football players and coaches submitted a plan t to the
Trustee Executive. Board to chop costs.

The first item has been addressed in the news pages of this paper, the second has
been seen in the opinions pages and the third appears in this week’s issue. The last
event is going to be dealt with here.

There is but one good aspect to this proposal. The players’ offer to donate their
Wildcat Club financial assistance should put to rest the argument that they will not
be able to afford a Division III Davidson. Can they really only take out loans and
work at jobs if they play football? —

The plan sent to acting trustee chair Craig Wall is an excellent piece of public
relations, but a lousy piece of economics and policy. The trustees clearly cannot
accept the proposal; the numbers are not realistic.

- $4,000 per year for our assistant coaches? Either they will have to work part-time,
further clouding our chances of winning games; or they will have a very difficult
time feeding their families.

The amount in sunimer wages to be donated by non-financial. aid playets i is

Toughly $500 per week per player. bid them- good luck in finding a job that will

’ pay that after taxes.
it belongs, Davidson’s real and symbolic

- $67,500. of the savings.is to be gouged’ from the financial aid: of next year’s

‘freshendn players. That’s damned generous of you, guys.

The plancatches the trustees inatight bind that is receiving great public attention:

-. dothey goon record as turning down this so-called sincere expressionof how much

these guys want to play football, or do they accept'the proposal and go'on-record °

. » as making Davidson players pay to play? Either way, the trustees and the college
= Jose in the public eye, and either way the players win from the same perspective.

“Who his put the trustees in such an uncomfortable position?’ Who has publicly
embarrassed the college as it hasn’t been in years? Who is biting hard the hand that
feeds him? Head coach Vic Gatto. Whether this budget blitz is his game plan or not,
he signed his name to it, and it is his responsibility.

Why is this important? Because it is grounds for immediate firing. Gatto should.
have as his first priority Davidson College, andif he doesn’t, he should be replaced
posthaste by someone who does. Those familiar with the world outside Davidson
look onin amazement. Anywhere else, they say, such gross insubordination would
be fired immediately. The longer a loose cannon swings around, the more damage
it does. Gatto should be terminated swiftly.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
“Address: correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC: 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the maximum-security Grey Student
Union building: ‘Sorry the issue’s late this week, guys, but the only Union person we can really

- take this fiasco out on publicly is Trey Harrell, the tall, studious-looking emaciated guy who
‘works the Cafe grill. If you spot him, kick dirt (or snow) on his shoes. Opinions expressed in.
letters to the editor or Commentaries do not ever, ever, reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available, on request,

“and get "em while they're low, ‘cause we’ re about to double ’ em. Copyright is held by the

' Trustees of Davidson College. Hey! We’ve got a new prime directive operating this week,

_ straight from the factoty: To comfort the afflicted, and to afflict the comfortable. a
Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll. se amare &
‘Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome. °° : . cso dN Sa
News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaiichan, Maria Douglas; Beth se iia st
Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, i rinsed Ed Powell,

|, Features.Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilaty Basle ise
| Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord,
Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjaoran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary. Faith Mount, | .
_Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’ Shields » Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, |.
_ David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry “‘Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, ee
Maheras, Charles Marshill, Mary Faith Mount, Brace Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett,
'” Chian Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson,-Whit Wilks. ~
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, Stephesi
Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen. '
Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, John ‘‘Erasérhead’’ Engel, Michael D. Schill, J:W. Mullis.
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, neacolne ssaielin Sani Steen.
Spiritual Conemns lobia Afar: John Scranton Harris. 5

