Features

Five days without setting foot on solid land?

Davidson Outdoors encounters alligators while sacrificing equipment to Everglades’ murky depths

By MEREDITH GOODING

An element of the unknown. The nine
students who signed up for the Davidson
Outdoors spring break trip to the Floridan
Everglades lacked this in their lives.

The effects of a grueling winter term
were evident on the faces of those who
gathered at the first organizational meeting
to learn more about this unique opportunity
to spend five days canoeing in the
backcountry of one of America’s most
diverse National Parks.

When the group understood that they
would not stand on solid land for five days,
numerous questions began to emerge. We

all wanted to know the answers to basic |

questions including,” What is a chickee?”,
“How will we go to the bathroom?”, and
“Will we encounter any alligators?”

The group realized that they were in for
an adventure when they met our brave
leaders, Stan Hynds from Davidson Out-
doors, and Donna Obrecht of the Nantahala
Outdoors Center, neither of whom had ever
ventured into the backcountry of the Ever-
glades.

We departed from Davidson on Saturday
morning and drove twenty hours to south
Florida. On Sunday the group listened to the
last set of instructions and received a crash
course on orienteering skills. After careful
scrutiny of the tepid water, the overhanging
mangrove branches and the unpromising
sound of “Hells Bay,” our first destination,
Karminder Gill, Bob Dixon, Christy Cook,
David McPherson, Meredith Gooding,
David McKnight, Amitabh Sonthalia, Leah
Millar and David Dillon entered the canoes
and paddled away from civilization.

Although we adapted quickly to the
aquatic environment, the hazards of living
without solid ground were not fully antici-
pated. Davidson students donated tent
poles, a pair of sunglasses, six spoons, and
one cooking stove to the murky depths. The

spoons were a big problem. On the last day
of our adventure there were five eating
utensils available for eleven ravenous
campers.

A typical day in the Everglades
backcountry began with a delicious break-
fast and careful arrangement of the gear in
preparation for the long day of canoeing on
open bays and tidal rivers.

During the day, the wind was always in
our faces and inconveniently changed di-
rection without progress. Lunch was aritual
performed on open water that involved
careful maneuvering and the ability to sta-

P ilm

bilize a neighboring canoe with one foot or
by securing apiece of rope in one hand, and
eat with the other hand.

We camped on covered docks or “chi-
ckees” and relaxed in the calm of the eve-
ning. Each chickee was equipped with a
structure that served as an outhouse. The
sight of a chickee looming in the distance
after a long afternoon provided us with a
resurgence of energy.

Three dolphins cavorted near the canoers
on different occasions. On our last night,
David Dillon sighted a “serious ripple”
approaching our chickee.

Upon closer scrutiny it became painfully
evident that the “serious ripple” was in fact
a persistent alligator. Our alligator slowly
circled the chickee several times before
vanishing into the shelter of the night. At
this moment we realized that we were only
intruders in the Everglades.

One week later a mosquito-bitten, sun-
burned, yet intrepid group of students
climbed out of the canoes and stood once
again on solid ground.

We returned to Davidson with a strong
new appreciation for the element of the
unknown, .

~

Princess Bride: true love & high adventure

By KATHARINE ARMSTRONG
This is a Once Upon A Time movie, ok? So if you’re
looking for heavy symbolism and complex plot lines,
stay home and read Beckett. But if you find yourself in
the mood for some classic good guy/bad guy happy

ending stuff, this is it.

Grab your firstclueright here: Hernameis Buttercup,
his name is. Westley — even S. Morgenstern couldn’t
- have meant his “classic tale of true love and high adven-
ture” to be taken too seriously. Believe it or not, for once
amovie is actually very similar to its book, at least to the
“good parts” version by William Goldman. Goldman
(who did the screenplay for Butch Cassidy and the Sun-
dance Kid as well as The Princess Bride) simply cut
Morgenstern’s Florinese etiquette and politics to recre-
ate the adventure story of his childhood. So now we’ ve
got fencing, fighting, true love, revenge, schemes,
magic, a giant, terrible torture anda happy ending — but
we’ve skipped how many hats you should pack to go

visiting. Sorry.

There aren’t many big name actors in the movie.
(Yes, we have Billy Crystal as Miracle Max, and yes,

See BRIDE, next page

She gets kidnapped. He gets killed.
But it all ends up okay.

RINCES
BRIDE

Lilly drawings highlight new Design Gane display

By JOHN DAVID RAMSEY

The current collection of paint-
ings and drawings on view at
Design Space, the new gallery on
Main Street, represents a wide
variety of styles and abilities.
Several artists shown are
Davidson students or recent
alumni; most of the other artists
are local and regional. This kind
of concentration is one of the
goals set by Nancy Lathan, the
owner of Design Space, for her
new gallery.

In many respects the highlight
of the show is a collection of six
drawings by Jerry Lilly. Lilly
graduated from Davidson in 1986;
while a student he made a strong
impression on many people with
his work, which uses vivid, almost
fauvist colors and somewhat sur-
realistic images first to attract and
then intrigue the viewer. Those
who remember his earlier work
(especially from his Senior Show
of oil pastels, one of the most
successful one-man shows of
1986) will see in these new pic-
tures familiarly Lilly-esque im-
ages and colors, but used in amore
mature manner, and with greater

psychological depth. Allof these ©

drawings (four oil pastel, one in
mixed media, and one in pencil)
were done between his graduation

in 1986 and Spring of 1987, when -

he left for a teaching position in
Japan,and showa man inarelaxed
state of mind, better able to ponder
his art and his future. “Pagoda
Landscape,” with its. distinctly
Japanese theme, seems to express
both the artist’s excitement and
insecurity about his upcoming
trip, with the full view of the
remarkable sunset blocked by a
rather hulking pagoda. “Song of
Two Relentless Lovers” suggests
both the difficulties and the ten-
derness of a relationship between
a man and a woman, while
“Noon” is both foreboding, with
its strident armed monks, and
exciting. “Easter Island” is.a tour
de force in its medium, exploring
the full range of oil pastels’ possi-
bilities while capturing some of
the mystical qualities of the
strange island whence comes its
name. “Tete de Femme,” the lat-
est work in the show, is reminis-
cent of the “Gibson Girl” of the
1890s, arecurring image in Lilly’s
work, here presented more as
suggestion than representation.
Lilly also has aremarkable ability
to bring the viewer into his pic-
ture, by the way he composes
them, often with some large ob-
ject in the foreground, through or
around which the viewer must

make his way into the picture. His
work becomes more remarkable
as one studies it more carefully —
much is to be found there.

Jo Morgan is perhaps the best-
known artist represented at De-
sign Space. Her woven hangings

_and rugs are admired throughout

the region, and she does a great
deal of commission work. She
also recently opened a studio and
shop on Main Street, called the
Weaver’s Studio (which is itself
beautifully designed, showing a
restraint and simplicity that re-
veals what ‘elegant’ can mean).
Morgan has two pieces at Design
Space, a diptych in black and
white; they are of the same design,
but the tones are reversed in each.
Texture is essential, of course, to
a woven hanging, and the simple
pattern which Morgan has used
allows the texture of the yarn to
play its full part in the work, with-
out becoming the main impact of
the piece. Her colored pieces are
stunning, especially’ in her use of
blues and violets, but in this two-
toned piece her fine grasp of de-
sign is used to full effect.

Rachel Nation, a freshman at
Davidson, has a group of photo-
graphs on display, taken in her
native Houston. Most of them are
of derelict buildings and run-

down stores which are covered
with graffitti. This, however, is
not typical bathroom graffitti of
dirty jokes and obscene pictures,
but rather political — the politics
both of the Unites States and
South America, in English and in
Spanish. Some very strong feel-
ings are expressed, reminding the
viewer that politics are more than
an idealistic university pursuit.
For the people who spray-paint
their messages on the walls, ‘poli-
tics’ are a matter of whether they
live or die. Of course we see this
sort of graffitti all the time, if not
on the walls of Chambers, then on
the news and in the papers. We
seldom even notice. Nation some-
how manages, with these stark
black and white pictures, to re-
mind the viewer that the graffitti is
more than mere defacement.
Most of the pictures have no
people in them, but the personali-
ties and beliefs of many people are
forceful presences in the photo-

graphs — as they are in the city it-

self.

There is a passion involved in
what these people with spray cans
do, and Nation captures that pas-
sion, stripped down in its: barren
environment.

A number of other artists havea
variety of works on view. Donna

Freshwater, a former commercial
artist, has a series of remarkably
delicate drawings in pencil, hav-

_ ing the quality almost of air-brush

work.. Her subjects are rabbits and
fish, among other things, but she
successfully downplays the
Cuteness intrinsic to these sub-
jects. Ted Edwards has a series of
beautifully carved bowls made of
various rare woods; simple in the
extreme, the bowls allow the
unique wood grains to be fore-
most. The bowls must be touched
to be fully appreciated. A variety
of watercolors and acrylics in a
more traditional vein are also on
view.

Design Space is a welcome
presence in Davidson, joining
Natural Resources and The Frame
Gallery in an effort to present

Original art in every style to the

public. Compared even to five
years ago, the visual arts are bur-
geoning in the town of Davidson.
Nancy Lathan is taking a some-
what experimental approach with
Design Space. Hopefully the
gallery will continue a trend to-
wards more contemporary and
experimental work, Perhaps
some day Davidson may even
have its own version of

Charlotte’s popular Gallery
Crawl.
