Y-Student Service Corps
Now is a great time to contact these people if you wish to volunteer and become a part
of the Y-Student Service Corps.
Community Liason--Dave Rochford (-6054)

Campus Liason--Ed Genovese (-6248)

News Shorts

Big Sister/Big Brother--Kirk Orrell (-6190)

CROP--Linda Tatsapaugh (-5695)

Davidson Tutoring--Vincent Knight (-1613)

Florence Crittenton--Becky Benton

North Meck YMCA--Reid Chisholm (-636]1)

By JON BOLES
Forty-two Davidson students have cho-
sen to leave the comforts of our esteemed
institution this year to cast themselves into
the unknown. These students have not
retreated to the wilds of Africa, although

some of our alumni have chosen that path in .

the past -- these brave souls have “gone
JYA.”

Davidson’s Junior Year Abroad pro-
grams in Montpellier and Wuerzburg are
well-known and quite popular, each send-
ing fifteen to twenty students abroad every
year. Beaver College programs attract a
good number of students as well, with six-
teen Davidsonians. currently studying in
Great Britain and two ienna.

These are only a few among a multitude
of possibilities, however. Opportunities
present themselves on every continent, and
each year students manage to find their way
to such exotic places as Kenya, China,
Japan or Costa Rica.

There are also alternatives available for
students who don’t want to spend an entire
year away from Davidson. Every other
year, the College offers programs of study

Davidson JY Aers (1987-’88) meet the Chancellor of University Wirzburg.

in France on art history, in the lands of
classical antiquity on Greco-Roman civili-
zation, and in India on Indian civilization.

Furthermore, the Spanish department
sends small groups of students to Latin
America and Spain in alternating years and

Nuclear Forum--Matt Matthews (-6003)

Friday, January 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Prison Visitation--Justin Broughton (-6153)

Student injured

On Saturday evening, January 16, Davidson junior Reese Boyd III was seriously
injured in an automobile accident. The other occupant of the car, who was killed, was
not a Davidson student. Boyd is currently recovering in Charlotte Memoria! Hospital.
Friends who would like to write to him may address their cards and ‘letters to: Reese
Boyd, Charlotte Memorial Hospital, P.O. Box 32861, Charlotte, NC 28232. The staff
of The Davidsonian offers its sincerest wishes for Reese’s speedy recovery.

Those with wanderlust: JYA deadline draws nigh

dents who choose to design their own study

1 programs.

As Davidson becomes more and more
internationally oriented, the number of
students taking advantage of these opportu-
nities is growing. According to Carolyn
Ortmayer, Acting Coordinator of Study

wage, ——Abroad, approximately one-third of the —

Alex Hayden

the History and English departments spon-
sor a combined program at Wolfson Col-
lege of Cambridge University each year.
Financial aid is also available for all
Davidson-sponsored activities, and the
Dean Rusk program offers grants to stu-

students in each class spend time outside of
the country with Summer, semester or year-
long programs before graduation. Ort-
mayer cites three primary reasons why
students go abroad: to enhance their lan-
guage skills, to become familiar with or live
in another society and to broaden their
perspectives on the world.

“Studying abroad has other benefits as
well, especially in terms of career aspira-
tions,” she said. “It looks good on your vita
or applications for graduate schools -- even
for pre-med or in a field that you normally
wouldn’t associate with foreign experi-
ence.”

The deadline for application to the 1988-
89 programs to Germany and France is
February 1, and the due date for applica-
tions to Cambridge is January 27.

Semesters switch hinges on Educational Policy Committee
Students, faculty, and staff work together to ease transition

- By SUSAN PEARSALL

The Educational Planning
Committee, chaired by Vice
President of Academic Affairs
Robert C. Williams, remains on
schedule in its task of examining
and approving all changes in aca-
demic regulations and depart-
mental curricula.

All such changes must be ap-
proved and implemented before
the switch to semesters takes ef-
fect next year, and both Williams
and the committee’s secretary,
physics professor Robert Man-
ning, feel confident that most of
their work will be completed, as
planned, by March.

Perhaps, said Williams, those
who believe that the approval
process has been stalled are sim-
ply responding to the fact that the
EPC’s task will necessarily take a
long time to complete. The ten-
member committee, which in-

cludes students Pete Mangone and
Mary Olive Smith, now meets for
at least two hours every week, and
has completed its review of all the
changes in a few departments.
The committee has already
completed thé revision of aca-
demic regulations, allowing the
Registrar to send out a note ex-
plaining the new standards of
progress to all enrolled students.

‘The faculty will have to approve
the new curriculum at its March .

meeting; it adopted the set of
regulations and standards of prog-
ress Jan. 12, “a big step” in the
changeover process, according to
Registrar Dr. Sue Ross.

The EPC’s ongoing charge is to
review all new courses submitted
by the various departments as well
as any proposed changes in aca-
demic regulations, and then to
bring them before the faculty fora
vote each year. Thus, when the

decision was made to switch to
semesters, the responsibility of
implementing the curricular con-
version to the new system fell with
Williams and the EPC. The
members must review all courses,
decide how they fit into the new
curriculum, work with the depart-
ments on course-numbering sys-
tems and help the department
heads to decide which courses will
be considered part of the core
curriculum.

Both Ross and Williams find
this process of review “exciting”
because, said Williams, “this is
the first time in twenty years that
the faculty is taking aclose look at
what it teaches.” “We want to
make sure,” he added, “that pres-

ent students don’t getcaughtin the.

transition. We want to treat them
tenderly. Whenever a close call
arises [concerning graduation or
major requirements], it will be

decided in favor of the student.”
In addition, Williams is hopeful
that few professors harbor the at-
titude that more weeks of class
give them the chance to increase
students’ workloads; this would
defeat the purpose of the new
system, meant to lessen daily
classroom and studying time.
Ross is pleased that students
will now have much more flexi-
bility in their academic planning.
Those who have gotten behind a
couple of credits will now have a
chance to graduate on time, be-
cause they will be able to take ten
courses a year, if necessary. “I
think students will find that they
have a lot more control over their
academic paths,” she says. “It’s

Teally an exciting time, because

everyone is thinking about why
we’re here, and what we want our
graduates toknow. We’ re looking
at what we are trying to accom-

plish, in the broadest sense.” To
help students adjust to the new
system, Ross will be sending out
personalized inventories of com-
pleted courses, specifying what
each student will need to graduate
with his desired major.

Manning, however, is less
pleased with the coming change to
semesters. While he is optimistic .
about the work of his committee,
he believes that a calendar change
will not solve one of the real prob-
lems at Davidson: the gap be-
tween teaching and actual learn-
ing. While semesters would sup-
posedly give students more of a
chance to research and ponder the
material covered in class, Man-
ning claims that a new calendar
cannot add hours to a day, and that
teachers and students may con-
tinue to demand too much of each
other to concentrate on learning
rather than work.

starting faculty. “If youcomehere,ithasto _of the college’s budget allocated to faculty _ mate goal of the college should be to“...

—PAY, from p.1

He said that low salaries can affect fac-
ulty morale and performance. “I hope that
we don’t reach a point of crisis before
something is done,” he said.

Yoder commented that there is a “pretty
good chance” that the administration will
respond favorably to the junior faculty
report, especially inorder toraise salaries to
alevel from which Davidson will be able to
compete with other selective institutions.

His sentiments were echoed by one assis-
tant professor who stated that he didn’t

think that Davidson is competitive with
other schools in terms of salaries offered to

be for more reason than that of salary.”

Especially, he continued, for those who
must provide for a family or buy a home.

The price of homes is a primary com-
plaint among faculty. The junior faculty
response document stated, “[{We] find
housing prices in or near Davidson prohibi-
tive. It has been conservatively estimated
that the minimum cost for suitable housing
is over $100,000.”

Shi said that Davidson’s real estate value
is escalating with the increased move of
Charlotteans into the town and the lake
area.

Further findings of the committee in-
clude a reported decrease in the percentage

salaries: “...the percentage of the College
budget allocated to faculty salaries has
steadily dwindled from 23 percent to 21.1
percent over the last four years.” This trend

-has continued despite yearly tuition in-

creases.

Another trend mentioned in the commit-
tee report was the “dramatic increases of
expenditures within other sectors of the
Davidson College budget...” The report
urged the trustees to consider that the ex-
penditure required to restore faculty sala-
ries to “appropriate levels” was small in
relation to expenditures in other areas of the
budget.

The committee proposed that the ulti-

adopt salary and compensation goals re-
flecting our institutional commitments to
recognized excellence.”

It further recommended that Davidson
should be competitive with the top five
schools “of the appropriate category in any
given year.”

A meeting to discuss the committee find-
ings and junior faculty response will be held
Monday, January 25th.

In attendance will be President Kuyken-
dall, Dean of Academic Affairs and Faculty

- Robert Williams, members of the Profes-

sional Affairs committee, and Robert Sut-
ton, Vice-President of Business and Fi-
nance.
