Monday, April 4, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

3

Justice Dept. officials quit; Iraqi citizens suffer poison attack

By MUADI MUKENGE
Headlining the news March 25-30:

Across the Nation: Republican Robeft
Dole withdrew from the presidential race
Tuesday after suffering a major upset in the
Connecticut primary. Dole received 20
percent of the vote, while Vice President
George Bush won 70 percent. Super Tues-
day had also fared disastrously for the
Senate Minority Leader--he lost in all 17
states. As of Tuesday, Dole held a mere 202
delegate totals to Bush’s 818; 1,139 are
needed to win the party nomination. His
withdrawal leaves evangelist Pat
Robertson as Bush’s only contender.

In an astounding showing, the Reverend
Jesse Jackson had a sweeping victory over

Massachusetts governor Michael Dukakis
in the March 26 Michigan caucus. Jackson
won 54 percent of the vote while Dukakis
received a disappointing 29 percent.
Gephardt received 13 percent and both
Simon and Gore received 2 percent. The
victory has forced the Democratic party to
seriously consider Jackson as a possible
presidential nominee.

Dukakis responded on last Tuesday with
a trounce over Jackson in Connecticut. His
victory of 58 percent of the vote topped
Jackson’s 28 percent showing. The Demo-
cratic delegate count as of Tuesday, March
30 is 623.65 for Jackson, 613.55 for
Dukakis, 359.55 for Albert Gore and 165.5
for Paul Simon.

In protest over Attorney General Edwin

Meese’s refusal to resign in wake of federal
criminal investigation, six Justice Depart-
ment officials quit their jobs Tuesday,
March 29. The six included Deputy General
Arnold Burns and William Weld, the top
official of the criminal division. Investiga-
tion of Meese’s wrongdoings has continued
for almost a year. President Ronald Reagan
continues to support Meese in spite of ob-
jections from the vice president, the First
Lady and chief of staff Howard Baker.

Around the World: U.S. military interven-

‘tion in Panama is imminent if Panamanian

leader Gen. Manuel Antonio Noreiga does
not resign his post, according to President
Reagan. Reagan recéntly met with Secre-
tary of State George Bush and national

security advisor Colin Powell to discuss
that possibility. Possible actions include
evacuating Americans from that country or

. helping to oust Noriega. American journal-

ists were beaten Monday by the Noreiga
government and tapes of a demonstration
were confiscated.

Twenty-four Kurdish citizens suffered

burns to the face, back and hands after

reported Iraqi poison gas attacks Tuesday.
The victims were flown by an Iran Air
ambulance plane to hospitals in the United
States and four European countries. The
Kurds are Iraqi rebels supported by Iran.
According to Iran, cyanide and mustard gas
were used to attack three Kurdish towns.
Five thousand were killed and 5,000 in-
jured.

Baker complex work proceeds as scheduled

BY STEWART RAWSON
The Baker Sports facility, with

boost to begin the project. The
Cannon Foundation gave a

a central 5700 seat basketball $600,000 cash gift shortly before
court and a state of the art swim- the end of the year for the con-
ming facility, is scheduled to be _ struction of the pool.

sought to name the. surrounding
natatorium (swimming pool)
plant, which will include locker
facilities and spectator viewing
areas. The foundation has raised

the $17 million needed.

Though this seems like a big
difference, Jones is quick to point
out the in-depth process that is
responsible for gaining large gifts

He says the college can raise the
money, “it just takes time.”
Jones added that acquiring the

completed in the fall of 1989. As-
sistant Director of Development
Dean Jones says that all signs
indicate that the gym will open for
the 1989-1990 basketball season
as planned.

_ The cost of the facility is $17
million, 14 million for actual
construction and 3 million for the
endowment of the complex. In-
cluding the amount for the endow-,
ment of the project in the initial
fund drive is new to Davidson and
the Trustees hope it will prove to
be effective.

One of the reasons the project’ s
construction has been delayed
was that the original plan called
for a 13 million dollar facility
inferior to what the Trustees and
other planners desired.

Jones feels as though the project
they have now settled on will
serve the college well.

The naming gift of 3.5 million
from the Baker family in Florida
gave the college the much needed

An additional gift is being

Be a

Artist’s conception of the $17 million Baker Sports Complex, to be completed by the Fall of 1989. a

approximately $11.7 million of

such as the Baker’s.

See COMPLEX, page 4

PCC, from page 1

Patterson Court practices. Most important,
Terry is worried about the role alcohol
plays inrelationships onthe Court. Specifi-
cally, Terry cited the pressure that pledges

are sometimes placed under by brothers to

drink alcohol.

He urged everyone to read the article
posted next to his office door concerning
the problems presently faced by Rutgers
University as aresult of irresponsible drink-
ing practices.

HOUSING, from page 1

construction of new dormitories and the
resulting increase in the number of rooms
on campus, the college will have spaces
available for all students returning from
JYA programs, and none will be forced to
find off campus housing.

He noted that dormitories can accommo-
date only 89 percent of the student body
right now, but that figure will rise to 93
percent next year. Jennings said approxi-
mately eight percent of students typically
request to live off campus each year.

Jennings will speak at an Open Forum
regarding housing issues Tuesday, April 5
at 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room, at which
time any questions regarding policies for
lottery and room selection may be asked.

In addition, Terry related concern about
the amount and length of partying that oc-
curs on the weekdays at Davidson College.
It is his belief that parties called “late
nights” are undermining the academic in-
tegrity of the school.

Terry said that this does not mean there
should be a ban on parties from Monday to
Thursday, but he would prefer that they be
shorter, much less frequent, and that they
avoid serving large quantities of alcohol.

Finally, Terry asked the PCC to consider
adopting some sort of dry rush procedure.

-He understands that it would difficult for ~

the Court to remain completely dry for ten
or twelve weeks. Still, he thinks it could be
done for two or even three weeks and still
accomplish its main purpose.

With Kuykendall’s and Terry’s opinions
in mind, the PCC met again this past
Wednesday to begin its evaluation of the
present Patterson Court alcohol policy.
Although the council did not deal with the
subject of dry rush, it addressed other
important aspects of the policy.

Responding to the liability problems
Patterson Court houses could face under the
current policy on “donated” kegs, the PCC
has proposed that “any alcohol made avail-
able for general consumption at a house-
sponsored event will be subject to the Pat-
terson Court alcohol policy regulations.”

Were this change made, “donated” kegs
and alcoholic beverages would have to be

‘PCC not to include any provi-

placed in the house’s specified serving
area. If this change is approved by three-
fourths of the Court houses later this Spring,
it will become part of the revised policy for
next year. How this change would affect
BYOB functions is uncertain at this time,
and Eileen Keeley, chairman of the PCC,
plans to consult with Davidson College’s
lawyer concerning liability before the PCC
advances on the issue.

are still large amounts of work to be done.
Once the PCC has completed its revision,
the policy must pass a vote in three-fourths
of the Patterson Court houses. Should it
pass, it will then be forwarded to the Presi-

- dent of the College, the Dean of Students,

and the Council on Campus and Religious
Life for evaluation followed by a report to
the Trustees.

_ In addition to discussing and
proposing this change, the PCC
listened to comments from Wil-
liam Brown, director of the Un-
ion. Although he is notan expert,
Brown worked very closely with
the College’s lawyers in helping
to develop the school’s alcohol
policy two years ago... Brown
made several statements in re-
sponse to various questions from
PCC members.
Most important, he advised the

sions in its alcohol policy if they
are intended to be “essentially a
farce.” Should a lawsuit ever
occur, Brown remarked, such
sections of the policy could be
used against a Patterson Court
house to show negligence.
Despite what has been dis-
cussed and accomplished over
the past two PCC meetings, there

To help you understand the new
tax law, the IRS has two new
publications. Publication 920
explains changes affecting
individuals and Publication 921
explains changes affecting
businesses. Both are free. Ask for
one at any IRS office or call the

IRS Tax Forms number in your
phone book.

A Public Service of the IRS

