Cats #1 in Southern Conference, p.7

Volume LXXVIII, Number 7

The Davidsonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Warner Hall sanctioned for
violation of alcohol policy

Enforcement con committee imposes fine, social probation”

By MARIA DOUGLAS

At a Tuesday night meeting, the Patterson Court
Alcohol Policy Enforcement Council subjected
Warner Hall to the stiffest sanctions the Council has
imposed during the course of this academic year. The
women’s eating house was fined $100 and put on
social probation for one week after it was found
guilty of having violated the Patterson Court alcohol
policy last Saturday night.

The violation occurred when an I.D. monitor from
Warner Hall allowed senior David Ethridge to enter
the designated drinking area using
his North Carolina driver’s li-
cense instead of his Davidson I.D.
Both co-sponsors of the party,
Warner Hall and Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, were brought up on
charges. SAE was found “not
guilty” of any violations.

The Alcohol Policy states that
“To enter the designated service
area, the individual must presenta
Davidson College I.D. card to the
designated entrance monitor for
age verification. If the individual .
is not a Davidson student, valid
identification must be shown,
such as a state driver’s license or
passport.”

Ginger Broaddus, president of
the Patterson Court Council and of
Warner Hall, declined to comment on the decision of
the Enforcement Council.

Ethridge said he “understood [he] had to have a
Davidson College ID” but that his license was a
“state accredited verification of age.”: “Technically,
yes, it was wrong. My going downstairs was an
infraction of the rules,” said Ethridge.

Ethridge said the policy is a “ridiculous charade.”

PAC calls for 9%

Senior David Ethridge.

He feels it discriminates against the Davidson stu-

dent because it does not permit him to use an 1.D. card
which is considered valid by the government of the
state of North Carolina.

Ethridge said he did not have his student I.D. card
because he had used it to borrow a vacuum cleaner
from the Residence Life Office, and had forgotten to
retrieve it when he returned the vacuum. He had been
unable to obtain it after the office closed that eve-
ning.

(For further comments from Ethridge regarding al-
cohol policy enforcement proce-
dures, see page 10.)

The sanctions imposed upon
Warner Hall were the stiffest im-
posed by the Enforcement Coun-
cil so far this year. While previous
4 Violators brought to the attention

“* of the Council have only been is-
ke” sued written warnings, Warner
“©. Hall will be required to pay a fine
- of $100 to the Patterson Court
Council. According to the Patter-
Z son Court alcohol policy, this
mag ~=money will be used “at the discre-
#, tion of the Patterson Court Coun-
cil for educational programs,
funding for measures to prevent
driving while intoxicated, or any
other expenses related to the im-
Robert Nesbit plementation of the alcohol pol-
icy.”

Warner Hall has also been placed under social pro-
bation for a period of one week, scheduled to begin
on Friday, January 22.

In addition to Warner Hall and SAE, three other

See POLICY, p.3

Friday, January 22, 1988

More upperclassmen oppose freshman ban

Question: Should freshmen be

kept off the Court at the beginning

of Fall term?
Percentage responding “no”:

Freshmen Sophomores

32.7%

— 24.1% -

Juniors Seniors

Patterson Court survey
Poll indicates students

support status quo

By STEVE MEADOWS and
KEITH FINCH

Three-quarters of Davidson
Students believe that fraternities
should continue to exist here,
according to a survey of 165 stu-
dents conducted by the
Davidsonian staff this week.

Most students surveyed also
indicated their approval of the
Fall term ban on freshman in-
volvement in Patterson Court,
and indicated they would not
like to see sororities on the
Davidson campus.

The survey consisted of ten
questions about Davidson’s so-
cial system, as well as two ques-
tions asking respondents to indi-
cate their graduating class and
sex. The students taking the sur-
vey represented 12% of

Davidson’s 1,367 currently en-

faculty salary increase

Report shows Davidson assistant professor salaries among lowest in North Carolina

rolled students.

When asked, “Do you believe
that fraternities should continue
to exist at Davidson College?”,
76% of the students surveyed re-
sponded “yes.” Only 16% re-
sponded “no,” the other 8% in-
dicating that they were unde-
cided or did not wish to answer
the question.

The survey also asked stu-
dents, “Do you think freshmen
should be kept off the Court for
a period of time at the beginning
of Fall term, as they were this
year?” Seventy-eight percent of
the respondents answered
“yes,” while 21% answered |
“no.” Those who opposed the
current system were mostly

See SURVEY, p.3

By MUADI MUKENGE

The Professional Affairs Committee has
released its Faculty Salary and Compensa-
tion Report, in which it calls for an average
9% salary increase for the coming year. The
report called particular attention to “the
plight of our assistant professors,” whose
average salaries rank very low in compari-

Committee would not achieve parity with
assistant professors’ salaries at competing
institutions.”

The annual Faculty Salary Report, com-
piled by PAC committee members David
Shi, Cole Barton, Gail Gibson, Lauren
Yoder, and David Kaylor, went on to say
that the salary received today by assistant

and the actual increase (5%). As a conse-
quence, little progress was made toward our
traditional goal of restoring faculty buying
power to that of the 1966-67 year.” The
report emphasizes that Davidson is a year
behind its target date of 1987 for reaching
that goal.

While full professors : receive 94.6 per-

assistant faculty members in the form of the
junior faculty response, document, pre-
sented January 12 at a faculty meeting by
Assistant Professor Julio Ramirez.

The most pressing matter, in the eyes of
the junior faculty, is the question of the
degree of priority which will be afforded
this issue by the trustees of Davidson Col-

_son_to-those-of_junior-faculty.members-at__professors (approximately 25 percentof the —cent of the-1966 figures, associate profes-—lege——_-—_____-__-—-

other highly selective institutions, as well
as those at other colleges in North Carolina.

The junior faculty expressed their sup-
port for the report in aresponse signed by all
Davidson’s regular-appointment assistant
professors. Although they argued that
‘even the 9% raise recommended by the

News:

meet.
Page 3

Inside

Wrestlers lose wallets at home

faculty) is 82.9 percent of the salary re-
ceived in the 1966-67 academic year (based
on constant ‘66-‘67 dollars).

The report begins: “Last year there was a
substantial discrepancy between the Pro-
fessional Affairs Committee’s recommen-
dation for average salary increases (9.4%)

Features:
« Pizza: platonic form of food.

* No spoof this week. Oh, well.

Page 4

sors receive 95.5 percent. On the whole
these salaries are comparable and even rank
high in comparison to those institutions
with which Davidson compares itself (i.e.,
Pomona, Oberlin, Carleton, Mt. Holyoke,
Swarthmore, and Amherst).

The findings prompted a response from

Cartoons:

¢ Murf returns!

¢ Bob fights Darth Williams.
Pages 5 & 6

Shi said that “it is important that faculty
salaries receive greater attention from trus-
tees as they prepare the budget, and that
they target assistant professors.”

See PAY, p. 2

Opinions:
David Ethridge on alcohol \
enforcement policies.
Page 10

