The Davidsonian
Friday, April 29, 1988

Women’s tennis team places third in conference tournament

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis team made an outstand-
ing effort in last week’s Southern Conference tournament
in Asheville. The team finished a -
strong third behind UTC and Fur- F
man,

The team’s performnace was tre- | ..
mendous considering recent inju- 4
ries. Before the contest, the Cats
knew they would be without their
number one player, Amy McNelis,
due to knee surgery, as well as their
number four singles player, Marion
Stone, due to tendonitis.

Further disaster struck the day liac}) ’ Z
prior to the tournament. In amatch Jane Price
with Guilford, Angela Rudert broke her wrist and was

removed from the tournament line-up.

Although weak teams such as Marshall were licking their
chops at the chance of beating Davidson, the Lady Cats
refused the back down. The team brought on the “super
subs mystery women.”

The mysterious ones were Alice Stubbs at number one,
Laura Ross in the four slot, and Debby DeCou at number
six. These players helped Davidson win every match the
first day, leading to a tie for first place with UTC and
Furman.

The second day marked the start of Cat Magic. Freshman
Mary Beth Ruth (#2 singles) upset the number one seed,
Sam Fletcher of UTC, in straight sets, 6-4, 6-3.

The magic continued when DeCou upset the number two
seed from Furman. Then, the doubles team of Stone-Stubbs
upset Furman’s number two team, leaving the Cats just ten
points behind UTC and only five ve points behind Furman.

However, on the final day there was only a little Cat
Magic left. Ruth used it all up to win her finals match over
her ETSU opponent.

' The team’s performance under such adverse conditions
drew praise from other conference teams,

Mary Beth Ruth said, “The friendliness of the opposing
team’s coaches and players was what made the Southern
Conference.”

Coach Caroline Brown got more out of her players than
anyone expected.

The team’s depth was responsible for the upsets. Coach
Brown said that the tournament was a “tribute to the team
and players one through thirteen and one manager.”

With Jane Price, Angela Rudert, Alice Stubbs, Marion
Stone, Virginia Hall, Debby DeCou, and Mary Beth Ruth
all returning next year, Davidson will be ready to venture

_ Out next year as an independent.

Cats track team returns from conference championships

By BILL SMITH

The Davidson track team par-
ticipated in the Southern Confer-
ence Optdooor Track and. Field
Championships last weekend, the
22nd and 23rd of April. The meet
was held on the VMI’s action
track surface in Lexington, Vir-
ginia. For the two-day event, the
weather was cool and overcast.

In the women’s competition,
Appalachian State dominated the
field of seven teams as they rolled
up 263 points to easily outdis-
tance second place Marshall’s
107 points. The order following
those top two teams was Western
Carolina (61), East Tennessee
State (59), Tennessee-Chat-
tanooga (33), Furman (20), and
Davidson (7).

Missy Willis again led the way
as she set two new outdoor réc-
ords. She ran a 2:21.1 in the
preliminaries of the 800 meterrun
and a 4:54 in the 1500 meter run.
Willis went on to finish seventh in
the 800 meter with a 2:26, and she
placed fifth in the 1500 meter with
her school record time.

Laurie Reams ran a 5:08 in the
1500 meter to finish ninth. She
also ran an 11:49 in the 3000
meter to place sixth.

Lisa Culbertson took fifth place
in the 10,000 meter with a 41:54

time, and she finished ninth in the
5,000 meter running a 20:20. The
4 by 400 meter relay team ran a
4:30.3 to pick up points from fifth
place. Willis opened with a 67.1;
Chelley Alexander ran a 66.8;
Cathy Quinn ran third in a 70.7;
and Katie Reynolds ran anchor in
a 65.7.

Other participants were Kathy
MacDonald in the high jump,
Susan Swift in the shot put and
hurdles, Ginny White in the jave-
lin, Missy Meegan in the hurdles,
and Karen Kemerait and Vanessa
Barton in the distance runs.

Home team VMI captured the
men’s title as they pulled in 194.5
points to top Appalachian State’s
128 points for second place. The
seven-other competing teams fin-
ished as follows: Marshall
(105.6), East Tennessee (66),
Western Carolina (56), the Cita-
del (40), Furman (24), Tennessee-
Chattanooga (2), and Davidson
(1).

Davidson’s lone point winner
was Jeff Williamson in the ham-
mer throw where he threw for 139
feet, 1 inch to take sixth place. He
also participated in the discus.

Andy Tysz and Doug Saintsing -

each threw javelin with Tysz
throwing for 148 feet, 8 inches for
seventh and Saintsing throwing

Senior Dave Maynard passes the baton

only two feet less for ninth.

Jay Clugston finished ninth in
the 10,000 meter run with a time
of 32:40; he also ran the 5000
meter.

The 4 by 400 relay team wound
up seventh with a time of 3:33.8.
The four runners were John Lantis
with a 53.5, David Maynard with

a 53.0, Larry Ray with 53.7, and
David Petranick with a 53.5.

Lantis and Ray also ran in the
800 meter finishing with times
under two minutes.

Maynard ran the 1500 meter in
4:08; Petranick ran the 200 meter
in 24.0 and the 400 meter in 55.06
seconds.

: ell!

Robert Nesbit

Other runners were Steve
Childs and Chris Fisher in the
5000 meter with Fisher also run-
ning the 10,000 meter.

Several runners will continue
their outdoor season this year by
running this weekend, May 6th
and 7th, in a track meet at
Marshall.

DIGITAL, from previous page

nine symphonies on 5 discs for.$15.88 to
Wagner’s Ring Cycle on 15 discs for
$189.95. Plus if you have a WDAV Clas-
siCard, you can get 10% off all classical
music. In short when shopping for CDs, do
what I do, shop around. It’s a buyer’s
market.

Another neat way to build a collection is
throughCD clubs. Thisis a pretty goodidea
if you don’t mind their mail order tactics.
The mathematics of it is that you can get 11
discs for a total of $80, a little more than $7
per (this is Columbia House I’m talking
about and this includes shipping). Selec-
tion is not fabulous, but when you're start-
ing out they always have something you
want. I’ve joined Columbia a total of
eleven times. The last three were in their
CD club. RCA also has aclub. It involves
fewer discs to complete an agreement and
costsa little less, but their selection is much
smaller,

I'd. like to say something about tWo other
exciting developments in digital audio.
First, the 3-inch CD or the CD single is on
the verge of breaking into the market place.
Several major labels plan to ship these

within the next month. They hold about
twenty minutes of music, will cost 3 to 4
dollars, and can be played on any player
(some players need a 99 cent adapter). Far-
ther in the future is Digital Audio Tape
(DAT for short). Right now this technology
has just come to the States and is quite
expensive (most decks retail above $1000).
But it offers.the ability to tape digitally on
cassettes that are half the size of today’s
analogue cassetes. Eventually, as prices

come down, this technology will become

competative.

After over a year of collecting discs, I
have more than 130 CDs and fewer than 50
records. | rarely use the turntable anymore.
For convienience and listening pleasure I
can’t beat discs.

My message is that like it or not, the
music industry is turning digital Its a good
idea to convert before you get too much
invested in or too attached to viny! or tapes.
The cost of an inexpensive disc player is
comparable to a turntable and stylus or a
decent tape deck (about $100) and the
sound quality on all players is almost the
same. Building a CD collection no longer
has to be difficult or expensive. In this
buyer’s market the digital revolution is
bloodless.

sports Shorts

By WHIT WILKS

eMens’ Tennis. The Cats split a pair of
conference matches last week in running
their record to 19-11. On Thursday, Fur-
man handed Coach Frank’s crew a tough
8-1 defeat in Greenville. Davidson re-
bounded the next day to conuger App
State by the same score. The team travels
to Western Carolina for the conference
tournament this weekend.

¢Baseball. Davidson came offasweep
at the hands of Western Carolina last
weekend to take out Pfeiffer 9-4 on
Wednesday. The Cats (25-22) were led
by George Halter’s. grand slam in the
eighth inning. Dave Fitzgerald (4-3)
earned the win.

eSoccer. Coach Slagle’s team de-
feated Stannington College from Shef-
field, England 4-1 last Thursday. Robert
Avinger, Walter Wray, Mike Friedlan-
der and Tracy Hankins all scored for the
Cats.

«Wildcat Athlete of the Week. The
award goes this week to tennis player

Mary Beth Ruth. Appearing in her first
conference .tournament, the freshman
showed poise beyond her years in captur-
ing the number 2 singles title.

eIMAC update. Congratulations must
go out to Hugh Campbell, who after hav-
ing been criticized by this publication
last week, rebounded strongly to lead his
team into the winners bracket final in the
softball tournament. Campbell coupleda
sure glove with timely hitting (5 for 6
with 6 RBIs) in Wally’s Master’s first
tourney matchups.

Trivia. The answer to last week’s
question is 1982, as it has been six long
years since-the Braves have captured the
NL, West title.

This week’s question: Who was the on-
deck hitter when Henry Aaron hit his
715th home run to break Babe Ruth’s
Major League record AND when Sad-
uharu Oh hit his home run to surpass
Aaron for the all-time professional
mark? Hint- he is currently a big-league
manager.

