Friday, March 25, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

U.S. sends troops to Honduras;
four indicted for roles in Iran-contra affair

By KATHERINE PRICE
News headlines March 16-22:

Around the World — The U.S.
sent 3,200 soldiers to Honduras,
on an “emergency employment”
exercise. The U.S. troops were
sent to Palmerola Air Force Base,
the focus of U.S. military opera-
tions in. Honduras. The U.S.
troops were sent as a “measured
response” to allegations that
Nicaraguan Sandinista forces had
crossed over the border into Hon-
duras after clashes with opposi-
tion contra forces. Although the
border conflict now appears to be
subsiding, and Sandinista troops
reportedly withdrew from Hondu-
ras on Monday, controversy con-
tinues over the presence of US.

troops in the region. Also on
Monday, the Sandinistas and the
contra rebels agreed to an infor-
mal truce, in efforts to negotiate a
cease-fire. Inamatterunrelated to
the regional hostilities, a U.S.
helicopter crashed in Honduras on
Monday, away from the fighting,
resulting in the deaths of 10
Americans.

Violence in Northern Ireland
led to the deaths of two British
soldiers on Saturday, at the fu-
neral of a member of the Irish

Republican Army. In a previous.

exchange of violence between the
IRA and British forces, three
people were killed and 68 injured,
as participants at a funeral service
for IRA soldiers rioted last
Wednesday. These recent deaths

raise the total of deaths in North-
ern Ireland to ten since the March
6 shooting of three IRA guerrillas
by British forces.

After weeks of pressure to re-
sign from the Panamanian opposi-
tion and the U.S., Defense Minis-
ter General Manuel Noriega an-
nounced that he would step down
from office if all Panamanian
political parties would agree to
engage in a “national dialogue.”
The U.S. has been urging Noriega
to accept Spain’s offer of asylum,
and denounced Noriega’s new
offer.

Another Palestinian was killed
on Monday by Israeli troops,
bringing the total of Palestinian
deaths in Israeli-occupied territo-
ries to over 100 since early De-

cember. Israeli Prime Minister
Shamir recently denounced U.S.
Secretary of State Shultz’s pro-
posed Middle East peace plan,
although regional violence con-
tinues to escalate.

Iraq reportedly attacked an Ira-
nian tanker on Saturday, resulting
in the deaths of 54 crew members.
Iraq and Iran have been at war
since 1980.

Across the Nation — Fourteen
months of investigation led to the
indictments last week of four men
involved in the Iran-contra affair.
Former White House aide Oliver
North, former national security

‘adviser John Poindexter, retired
~Air Force Major General Richard

Secord, and businessman Albert

Hakim were indicted for a total of
23 counts, stemming from delib-
erately misleading Congress to
accepting government funds ille-
gally. The Iran-contra scandal
involved the sale of weapons to
Iran, and the diversion of profits to
aid the contra rebel forces in their
war against the ruling Nicaraguan
Sandinista government.

Vice President George Bush
continued his string of Republican
primary victories by winning in
Puerto Rico. Bush commands a
considerable lead in the Republi-
can race. In the Democratic con-
test, Jesse Jackson emerged as the
winner in Puerto Rico. Michael
Dukakis holds the lead in dele-
gates won for the Democrats at
this sil

SGA Weekend will offer students a 1-Gliewiee to

show Davidson to seventy-one “prospectives”

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Beginning Thursday afternoon, prospec-
tive members of the class of ’92 will be
' arriving on Davidson’s campus, preparing
“for their first weekend at college. They will
be participants in the annual Student Gov-
ernment Association Weekend, an event
sponsored by the SGA and the Admissions
Office. According to coordinator Sheryl
Aikman (an admissions counselor), the
weekend is an excellent “recruitment tool,”
because the students invited are “highly
qualified applicants [whom] we’d like to
see at Davidson.” Also included in the
guestlist are Early Decision acceptees who
live relatively close to the school and can-
didates for the Martin and NCNB Scholar-
ships.

Seventy-one students are éipicied to
participate this year, staying in freshman

dorms Thursday and Friday nights “in order
to find out whatit’s like ona freshman hall,”
according to sophomore senator and SGA

. Weekend co-chairman Chip Allen. The

other organizers of the event are junior
Susie Grant, senior Anna Erwin and mem-
bers of the twelve-odd committees which

‘ took care of the details. i

“Having to sustain these people for the
weekend is a complicated task,” explains
Allen, who feels that the committees and
co-chairmen have done a fine job this year
finding housing for the students, contacting
prospective participants, planning activi-
ties, and performing the many other impor-
tant tasks necessary to ensure the project’s
success.

Upon arrival at Davidson, the students
will settle into their assigned rooms before
their first scheduled activity, the Freshman

THEFTS, from page 2

two officers who had spotted them breaking
another car window March 13. One of the
boys was carrying one of the portable radios
taken from the cars previously broken into.
After questioning the two admitted that
they were also responsible for the hatch-
back breakins. It was at this time that they
named a

20 year-old as their accomplice.

In separate event, two Davidson college
students were stopped at the Pantry Quick
Stop in Cornelius Saturday March 19 after
police officers saw them driving abnor-
mally. The driver was charged with reck-
less driving and was taken to the Meck-
lenburg County jai). The passenger was
brought back to campus. Both boys are 19
years old. According to Hughes, the driver
was fortunate to be charged with reckless
driving rather than driving under the influ-
ence.

— Acase of license perjury occured March
14 also at the Pantry Quick Stop when a 20
year-old student attempted to use a false
driver’s licence. He had used a 21 year-old
friend’s birth certificate.and vehicle regis-
tration to obtain a false North Carolina
driver’s licence in Mooresville. The stu-
dent was discovered at the Pantry when he
was asked to give his address. He gave his

post office box number instead of the ad-
dress on the license and was unable to cite
the latter.

Hughes stressed-that lending a license to
aminor is amisdemeanor and is punishable
by revoking the license for a year.

“Any use of a fake ID is a misdemeanor
for any age. You lose your license regard-
less of your home state for a year.”

Borrowing licenses is beginning to be
problemsome, said Hughes. In this type of
case, both the minor and the adult are
charged.

Some cases of attempted use of false IDs
are handed over to the Dean of Students
office for punishment. This option is not
mandatory, according to Hughes. “But we
will make it so because students are taking
advantage of it.”

$13,596, from p.1

next year’s fees, the highest occurs in room
charges. Room will be 19.6 percent higher
than the present cost in order to cover the
costs of dorm improvements such as air-
conditioning, and to pay the balance on the
new dorms. The room fee will also include
a new telephone service required of all
‘students.

Orientation version of a “People Hunt,”
designed to help them get to know each
other.. They will view the Thursday eve-
ning Pop Film, and may attend a Patterson
Court party. Friday morning, prospectives
will attend classes. That will be followed by
an alumni presentation, after which they
will eat lunch on the Court. Prospectives
will be “special guests” at an FAC, hear a
folk band--Tuin--in the College Union, and
then attend a banquet in the evening. Fol-
lowing a brunch on Saturday, the prospec-
tives will depart.

SGA Weekend, according to Aikman, is
“a great opportunity for [applicants] to see

what the other students in their class are
like, as well as what we’re looking for in
this year’s freshman class. It’s achance for
us to show off the college.”

- She adds that those who the SGA has
invited “are folks who would bea real asset
to the Davidson community.” The social
evénts are designed, therefore, to give po-
tential freshmen areal feel for the college’s
social life and a chance to meet their pos-
sible classmates.

Allen states, “I think that the weekend
will go well. We’ve made a few good
changes this year, and I think that it will be
a great success.”

GOULD, from p.1

is not enough time for the accumulation of
much in the way of deep genetic differ-
ences.”

Hence the “cryptic” title of his lecture.
Gould defined history as “that enormously
complex attempt to understand individual
events that would never happen exactly the
same way twice.” Human equality was a
historic event contingent on other historic
events. Stressed Gould, “It just happens to
be a fact of history, that’s the way it worked
out.”

To clarify his point, Gould noted several
literary works based on a similar concept:
Kingdom Lost, Gallopogus, Tommyknock-
ers, Back to the Future, and It’s a Wonder-
ful Life.

“The particular paths of history are so
contingent, so dependent upon each of
hundreds of thousands of antecedent events
breaking in the right way, any one of which

had it occurred in a slightly different way
might have caused a streak to veer into
another channel, that what happens is so
massively improbable that it becomes ut-
terly unpredictable,” Gould stated.

The average genetic difference among
the human race turns out to be incredibly

small, according to Gould. He quoted a

colleague of his tosummarize his point. “If,
God forbid, the holocaust does occur, and
the only survivorsare a tribe of people in the
New Guinea highlands, we will have pre-
served 80-85% of all the variations in the
species homo sapiens.” :

Will significant genetic differences de-
velop in man after a much greater span of
time has passed? “It’s most unlikely,” said
Gould.

“The development of differences de-
mands isolation. Now we are so mobile,
people today move all over the world.” He
continued with a laugh, “And people, as
sexual objects, have this terrible tendency
to interbreed wherever they go.”

Harvard professor Stephen Jay Gould inaugurated the Joseph Henry
and John MacDonald Wearn Lecture Series, established by the late
Dr. Joseph T. Wearn ’13 as a memorial to his brother. The series is
intended to bring to Davidson those distinguished in the sciences or
those who are exceptional statesmen. The lectures will be held every
other year, and for 1990 geneticist Clement Markert of North Carolina
State University is scheduled to speak. -

