Monday, November 7, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shorts __

SAEs raise money for Baker Sports Complex

The members of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity helped Davidson College
raise over $30,000 for the new Baker Sports Complex. Over 20 members partici-
pated in a five day phone-a-thon sponsored by the Development Office of Davidson
College.

The SAEs, college administrators, and Charlotte area alumni called alumni all
over the country asking for donations to help Davidson met the Kresge Challenge.
The Kresge Foundation has offered to give the college $800,000 if the college can
raise the remaining $3 4 million.

}

College Republicans and Democrats hold mock electioh

Last Tuesday, November 1, 1988, the College Republicans and College Demo- -
crats held a Presidential mock election in the front hall of Chambers. Members of

both clubs counted the ballots and declared George Bush and Dan Gave the.

‘Tip O'Neill to speak at Queens Callas

The Honorable Tip O'Neill, former speaker of the House of Representatives, will
be on the Queens campus on December 1 as the first speaker for the Learning Society 3
of Queens College. Ra hohe cate aly eeobasabagen i rough the

The purpose of the Society is to provide an opportunity for Queens’ fac

ae bp Omi iegoe hia rai dumbass one gk Ww
aboitt timely and important topics. oS
The address will be held in the Dana Auditorium ‘bk

College at 6: 00pm, Tt a $7.50 an wil on en mi Now mber. F

ae Se Oe a ee ei

Ae ae, Ee
ib eee. ; fe
BCR LESS

‘ Laer
ce ASS

winnets with 149 vokes, Dikalit sind Bentsen Followed esl with 1 14 votes, vil ah
‘other party candidates received 7 votes. we

Rusk program offers

f

Former Communist Party

~

International Studies

By WES HOFFERBERT

Beginning this year, Davidson students
will have the option of pursuing an interna-
tional studies concentration in addition to
their chosen major.

In order to receive the concentration in
international studies distinction, a student
must formally apply to the International
Education Committee by the conclusion of
fall semester junior year and, by gradu-
ation, complete the requirements set forth
by the faculty.

These requirements entail demonstrat-
ing proficiency in a foreign language,
completing three courses of general inter-
national or multi-cultural nature, complet-

-ing three courses related to one particular

geographic area, and spending a summer,
semester, or year in study or work outside
the United States. The committee may
waive this latter requirement in cases of
financial hardship.

“The concentration,” explains Ambas-
sador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean

Rusk Program in International Studies,
“amounts to an inter-disciplinary minor
and gives an impetus to international stud-
ies. It enables students to have on their
transcript the notation that a significant
body of their class work was devoted to
international studies.”

Students presently in their senior year are
ineligible for the concentration. However,
such students are encouraged by Perry to
apply for the Dean Rusk Program Certifi-
cate in Internationa] Studies, which is cur-
rently under evaluation by the Dean Rusk
Program Faculty Advisory Committee.

Professor Clark Ross, Chairman of the
International Education Committee, has
stated that he sees the concentration as a
“rather unique opportunity which has sig-
nificant educational and professional ad-
vantages.”

Application forms can be picked up in
the Office for Study Abroad, the office of
the Registrar, or in the Dean Rusk Program
Office.

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER

STUDY IN

OXFORD, ENGLANL D

Academic

Member to speak

By MARGARET CARROLL

Junius Scales, former Communist
party member and the only American
to serve time in jail for being a Commu-
nist, will speak at the Campus Open
Hour at 11 a.m. on Tuesday, November
8 in Chambers Gallery.

Scales, born in 1920, was born into a
socially and politically prominent
family in Greensboro. On his mother’s
side, the Pellas, his relatives include
college presidents, editors, lawyers,
judges, and settlers of Jamestown in the
1600’s. On his father’s side. were

judges (including the first chief justice:

of the North Carolina Supreme Court),
Confederate generals, and a governor
of the state.

Scales grew up in a 36-room man-
sion, and he led a sheltered life, enter-
ing public school at age 12. Scales
attended the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill, where he was. dis-
gusted by the anti-Semitic, anti-Negro,
anti-working class bigotry of many of
his classmates.

Ultimately, Scales’ political in-

. volvement with the American Student

Union, made of students who were
concerned with social justice, led him
to join the Communist Party. Scales
met Bart Logan, the Party’s Carolina
district organizer, and got involved ina
strike at the Highland Cotton Mills,
where he saw the suffering, exploita-
tion, and poverty among the workers.

the Communist leader of North and
South Carolina.

During the McCarthy years the FBI
and the press questioned Scales’ politi-
cal beliefs, and in Memphis in 1954 he
was arrested for violation of the Smith
Act, which forbade people to be mem-
bers of any group which vowed to over-
throw the U.S. government.

For the next six years, Scales fought
the courts, and in 1957 he resigned from
the Party. Scales, however, was eventu-
ally sent to federal prison, where he
served part of a six year sentence until

he was released by Attorney General

Robert Kennedy. _

Scales claims that he does not regret
the reasons that drove him to the Com-
munist Party, but he regrets misrepre-
senting the Soviet Union as a socialist
country in an age when the Soviet Un-
ion’s attacks on other radical groups
were counter to the Party line.

Scales, attempting to better society
and to do something beneficial for the
United States as a whole, suffered for his
beliefs. Scales realized that the.means
did not justify the glorious ends of the
American Communist Party.

Scales’ recent autobiography, Cause
at Heart: A Former Communist Remem-
bers, explains the attraction of the
American Communist Party and also
recognizes its destructive results.

The lecture is sponsored by the Col-
lege Union Speakers Committee and the
Community Lecture Series. A docu-

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center
(WISC) to pop acecigeree study | Ox cee Phin or for one or two terms. Lower
Junior status is required, and te study is available.
colleges and roosts transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a
‘U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited by the U.S. Dept.of Education to
accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi-national student housing and social
activities are eceat and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is
directed by WIS!

INTERN IN

"WASHINGTON, D.C.

Pre-professional Program
The ‘Washington International Stidlies Center offers summer internships with Corigress, with the
Ridnaadh iene with the media and with think tanks. Covecsneni ans Journalism courses are taught

rs, and by experienced journalists. All

“college ‘melents with 23, 0 GPA or above are eligible.

For further information, Saat write or call:

WESC oe m International Studies Center

usetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
ashington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275
EO / AA

tudents are directly enrolled in their

Scales joined the Party on his nine-
teenth birthday and began working in
mills in order to organize the workers.
After the bombing of Pearl Harbor,
Scales enlisted and returned to Chapel
Hill after the war. Scales was elected
vice-president of the Southern Negro
Youth Congress, the organization’s
first white officer, and later he became

\

mentary film entitled “Charge-Counter-
charge” on.the McCarthy era will be
shown in the Morrison Room in the
Union on Thursday, November 3 at 7:00
p.m, A viewing of the movie followed
by a discussion with Scales will be held
in the Morrison Room on Tuesday,
November 8 at 4:00 p.m.

WATSON, from page 1

Geter. and France to study the
relationship between male domination
and the incidence of rape. Her study

builds on research she did while abroad
in France her junior year. She plans to
interview rape crisis counselors, gyne-
cologists and the general public and
will observe courtroom trials.

