6 Thursday, October 27, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

5
:
i
:
'
a
%

Photo editor Alex Hayden and staff artist Mike D. S. Chill were taking a walk one evening and sighted this ghost in the Old Davidson Graveyard. Using the highest photo-
technology available to them, the two gonzo journalists were able to catch a fleeting glimpse of the “Halloween Ghost of the Old Davidson Graveyard” on film. It is reputed
actually to be just a fast and bulbous squid-eating dough in a polyethylene bog, but you can try to see for yourself.

If you’re looking hard for
PART-TIME |: 230222
it easy on yourself. Con-
tact your local Domino’s
JOB; Pizza store, and cash in
on your driving skills.

~ FULL-TIME Our pizza delivery drivers

make some of the best
money in the business,
e up to $9.00 an hour!

Earn Up To $9 AnHour | Call 664-7300
With Domino’s Pizza®

$a

e

e ®

DOMINO'S
PIZZA
@

-;

Xz

—

Auto insurance, valid driver's license,

access to car, and good record
# required for delivery positions. Must be
18 years old. No

©1988 Domino's Pizza, inc.

Parents, Students can meet with Wruck for
JYA Wurstburg University info

a

How does spending a year in Ger- _ its kind for Davidson.
many as a student at Wurstburg The first group under Wruck began
University sound? This opportunity Davidson’s affiliation with the re-
is available thanks to the efforts of _ nowned German university in 1986, In
German Professor Erich Wruck. the forthcoming years, namely 1989-90
With the backing of Professor Zim- and 1990-91, Wruck will once again be
. .mermann in the German Depart- _ the resident director of the program.
ment, Wruck chose Wurstburg Uni- _ Wruck is very interested in establish-
versity as a suitable replacement to _ing,good rapport with the students who
the previous program which no are interested in the program and their
longer satisfied Davidson’s needs. ‘parents. He will be in his office, Cham-

Wurstburg University’s president bers 303, this Friday and Saturday to
and chancellor came to-Davidson in give parents of freshmen and sopho-
1985 to meet with PresidentKuyken- more students the chance to talk with
‘dall and sign an accord between the him about the exceptional opportunities
two institutions. This agreement offered by a junior year at Wurstburg
with a foreign university was first of University.

Photo by Alex Hayden and M. D. S. Chill

THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER
STUDY IN

OXFORD, ENGLAN D

Academic

cow olan of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center
(WISC) fo recommend qualified students to study Lit eg Maa Reo ple ed aera Lower
Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their
colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college; this is NOT a program conducted by a
U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited by the U.S. Dept.of Education to
accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Miulti-national student housing and social
actviine Ce er ee cen tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session is
directed by WISC

INTERN IN

WASHINGTON, D.C.

Pre-professional
‘The Washington International Studies Center offers summer pexnemion Wie egies, with the
White House, with the media and with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are taught
by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. All
college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible.

For further information, please write or call:

The W International Studies Center
setts Ave., N.E. Suite 230
WASC - Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275

EO/ AA

Student Counseling Center
08 Union Basement Ext. 2451

Amelia Dockery, Ph.D.

Tom Plott, Ph.D. David Staton, Ph.D.

Yin Sykes, M.Ed. DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.
Christine Davidson, Secretary

Campbell Peery, M.A.
