News Shorts

Duke Endowment awards Davidson $675,000 — v2: religion, and public policy.

A new professorship in international studies, automation of the campus library and
a pilot program to help freshmen cope with drug, sex, and stress-related problems are
among the beneficiaries of a $675,000 grant to Davidson College from the Duke
Endowment, college President John W. Kuykendall announced Jan. 8.

The Endowment gave Davidson $150,000as the fifth installment towarda$1 million
endowment for the James B. Duke Professorship in International Studies. A search
committee has been name and the college hopes to announce the first Duke professor
during 1988.

Davidson received $525,000 for two far-reaching programs. “Focuson Technology”
seeks to integrate technology into traditional liberal arts disciplines through library
automation, personal computing and membership in a state-wide educational com-
puter network. “Focuson Students” aims to enrich the student experience by expanding
academic and psychological support programs such as the “Wellness” course created
by a health educator to help freshmen deal with drugs, alcohol, human sexuality and
other stresses.

Since its establishment in 1924 by North Carolina industrialist James Buchanan
Duke, the Duke Endowment has awarded grants totaling more than #30.8 million to
Davidson. TheEndowmentis one of the nation’s largest private foundations with assets
totaling approximately $800 million.

Kresge foundation gives Davidson $800,000 )

for sports complex

The Kresge foundation of Troy, Michigan has awarded an $800,000 challenge grant
to Davidson College to stimulate the completion of fund raising for the $17 million
sports complex.

Davidson has already raised $11.4 million for the complex, and terms of the Kresge
award require the college to raise the remaining $4,843,124 by July 1, 1989 to receive
the $800,000.

The award is one of the largest ever the foundation has ever given to a liberal arts
college, said Alfred H. Taylor Jr., chairman of the Kresge foundation.

The Kresge foundation is an independent, private foundation created by the personal
gifts of Sebastian S. Kresge, founder of the Kresge chain of retail stores. It made
$45,155,000 in grants to 151 charitable organizations in 1986, including the areas o
higher education, health care, arts and humanities, social service, science and conser-

Sesquicentennial year ends
with convocation in gym

By AARON LEVINE
On January 29th, Davidson College

seur ’31 for presentation to the Trustees
as a special gift, the presentation of the

. fulfilling sport at Davidson should attend.

Mellon Foundation awards

Wednesday, February 3, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

$275,000 to Davidson pa

The Andrew W. Mellon foundation of New York has awarded a $275,000 grant to

Davidson College to enhance the teaching and learning of foreign languages and

cultures in the next five years.

According to college president John Kuykendall, the grant will be used to add faculty

positions in Russian, Chinese, and Japanese and to create new programs in Russian and
Soviet studies as well as Asian studies. The grant will also provide funds for increased
opportunities for overseas study, improved language facilities on campus, and courses
in the history, traditions, and culture of areas related to language study programs,

Davidson College has received $1.3 million from the Mellon foundation since 1972,
including a $275,000 grant in 1983 to encourage “fresh combinations” in teaching and
learning.

Come sail!

Sailing at Davidson has always been a popular activity among many students as a
relaxing escape from the drudgery of academic life. The feeling experienced when one,
after the misery of a day in the classroom, goes out to the lake campus, gets out on the
water and becomes drenched by cold spray as a powerful wind drives the boat through
white-capped waves has been compared to the sensation of rebirth and freedom the
Apollo astronauts experienced during their spacewalks. It seems odd that sailing, with
so much to offer the Davidson student, has been neglected as a serious sportin past years.

Yet student support for sailing has brought the program back to life. The sailing team

he

x

has competed in all the regattas in the South Atlantic Inter-Collegiate Sailing Associa- ,

tion this fall.

This spring term, the Sailing Club is working towards convincing the athletic depart-
ment that funds should be allocated to support a varsity sailing program. A strategy to
achieve this goal is being developed by core members of the Sailing Club. The plans
revolve around a more structured approach to involving interested students in sailing,
On Wednesday, February 10, a sailing meeting will be held in the Union to elect new
officers and discuss plans for rebuilding the Sailing Team. Anyone who is interested in
sailing and would like to devote their energies to an effort to make sailing a more

Davidson issues bonds

to finance sports

aoe
oe

held the closing event of the Sesquicen-
tennial year with what may have been the
largest convocation ever held on the
Davidson campus.

As Love Auditorium was too small for
the expected crowd of faculty, staff, stu-
dents, parents, and friends, the gym was
picked as the location. Even though the
use of an athletic area to stage an academic
gathering seemed unusual, the convoca-
tion proceeded well.

The one unusual aspect of the convoca-
tion was the placement, in all the seats, of
flyers stating the college choir’s call fora
review of the college’s faculty evaluation
procedures in response to the recent deci-
sion not to renew the contract of Choir
Director Frank Albinder.

The Convocation included the recogni-
| tion of those members of the Davidson
College community with outstanding rec-
ords of service, the first official appear-
ance of the Davidson College mace
carved by Davidson alumnus Jack Ram-

892-9046

gift by the Sesquicentennial Gift Com-
mittee, and finally the convocation
adress by President John Kuykendall.
Appearing on the mace is arepresenta-
tion of the cupola of “Old Chambers,”
and on the sides are carvings represent-
ing the college: the college seal, the Ses-
quicentennial logo, and representations
of the Eumenuan and Philantrophic Lit-
erary Societies. The mace will be on dis-
play in the Library during February.
The gift presented by the Sesquicen-
tennial Gift Committee is a Sesquicen-
tennial Garden centered around the Old
Well, which is slated for renovation. It is
hoped that the Old Well will once again
become a focal point of the campus, pro-
viding rest and repose to all who come.
The focus of the Convocation was
President Kuykendall’s addresss entitled
“ToEndure and to Excel.” In his speech,
he challenged Davidson to continue its
traditions of excellence into the future by
building on the past.

complex, new dorms

Cost to school will total $43 million

Davidson’s $20 million AA-rated educa-
tional bond issue sold out the first day itwas
offered on December 16. The bonds, tech-
nically issued through the North Carolina
Educational Facilities Finance Agency,
provide Davidson with the capital it needs
for the construction of the Baker Sports
Complex and three new dormitories.

The bonds are attractive to investors
because interest paid ‘to the holder is not
taxed. This advantage also allows the issu-
ing institution to offer them at lower inter-
est rates than taxed bonds.

According to college business manager.
Bob Sutton, the Davidson bonds were is-
sued in $5,000 denominations. Some will
be due as soon as December 1989, while
others will not be due for 25 years.

Sutton said that most bonds were sold to.
individuals, but that some of the longer-
term bonds went to institutional buyers.

Sutton added that the interest rate aver-

age for all the bonds was 7.82% per year.
That means that Davidson will need to
budget an average of $1.9 million for the
next 25 years to retire the debt. The total
cost to the school will come to $43.161
million.

-Although that sounds like a lot of debt,
Sutton said it is a very attractive way for the
college to raise funds for immediate needs.

“If we couldn’t issue bonds, our choices
would be to delay construction until we had
raised all the money necessary or to get the .
capital from our endowment. By leaving
the endowment intact, we’ll earn more
money in interest than we’re paying out to
cover the bonds,” Sutton noted.

The money received through the bond
sale will be invested in several trust funds to
earn additional interest for the college.
Money from these funds will be paid to
contractors on the projects as billscome due
during the next 19 months.

After 9 p.m. SPECIAL Monday - Thursday

12 in. with 3 toppings
16 in. with 3 toppings

- $6.50
- $7.75

- not including extra cheese -

Mon. - Sat. 11:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m.
Sun. 4:30 p.m. - 11:00 p.m.

Delivering to Davidson College Free

re
