Monday, April 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

XIV: “Thou shalt not install lights in Wrigley Field!’

Steven J. Reynolds

Steven Jay Reynolds doesn’t talk much, and even when
he does talk, people. don’t listen. So if you're still reading
this article, thank you. What’s even better is that the really
raunchy parts are still to come.

What I'd like to say is that the world’s going to pot: i.e.,
the Cubs are installing lights in Wrigley Field. They’re only
playing eight night games the first year, but just watch the
hell thatbreaks loose once the sacred tradition of day games
is ‘gone. Next they’ll be installing the plastic ivy on the
center field walls. Then the laminated wood paneling will
replace the bricks. (It may look like real wood, but it just
isn’tthe same.) Before long, two hundred Elvis impersona-
tors will be singing the national anthem in rhinestone-
studded Cubs’ uniforms before each game. The day the
Cubs play at night, the clink clinking of aluminum bats
can’t be far behind.

Hasn’t some commandment been broken here? You
know, one of those lesser-known commandments, in the
eleven through twenty range. Doesn’t the fourteenth
commandment say,’“Thou shalt: not install lights in
Wrigley Field”? (I believe number twelve is “Thou shall
not trade Lee Smith to Boston for Al Nipper and Calvin
Schiraldi.”) That’s already two sins for the Cubs this year,
if you’re keeping count on your “Big Sin Scorecard” at
home, like Iam. That’s one more than Gary Hart totaled for
all of last year. (They’re still a few hundred behind Jimmy
Swaggart, though.) But I can forgive the Cubs, because my
religion teaches me that we are all sinners. (Some of us just

more than others.)

Back to the underlying theme of this article—lights in
Wrigley. If you’ ve seen the movie The Seventh Sign, you'd
know that installing lights in Wrigley Field is the Seventh
Sign. If God had intended for man to play baseball at night,
He wouldn’ thave created light on the first day. It wouldn’t
have been good, either.

If and when I do burn in the fires of hell for all eternity,
I’m sure I'll be sitting there watching the Cubs’ games on

‘cable. By then, ofcourse, they’ Il all be under the lights. The

only other difference will be that Dick Vitale will have

’ replaced Harry Cary in the announcer’s booth. I can hear -

him now: “H.C.- Holy Cow, baby. That ball’s outta here.
We're talking four-bagger, street city. Wave bye-bye to
that one, baby. It’s gotta new address. all the way in
Cleveland. That ball was hit into the stratosphere, we’re
talking orbit, here. Somebody call NASA, and tell ‘em
we’ ve gotta new planet up there. Trot lightly around those
bases, baby, ‘cause you are a P.T.P.--a prime time player.
Tear up those ballots, we’ve got your MVP right here,
baby.”

I keep hoping that putting lights in Wrigley is just a beer
commercial and that somebody is going to walk up to the
bartender and say, “No, no, no, I‘meant a Bud Light.” If
you’re going to come in last place every yéar, and the Cubs
do have a proclivity for the posterior end of the division, at
least do it in style, and play in the day. “Play in the day”-
-that’s my motto. Those are words we should all live by.
“Play in the day when it’s bright; notatnight when you need
a light.” That’s an even better motto--it’s longer, but it’s
stronger. (There I go again, rhyming against my will.) Why
can’t the Cubs act like normal people and sleep at night?

The only reason I liked the Cubs was because they were
different, not like all the piddling, two-bit turf teams that
make up the rest of the league. A baseball never bounces off
the turf and ten feet over a player’s head at a Cubs’ game.:
The outfielders never lose a fly ball in the teflon-coated
dome roof. Playing a ball off a Hefty-bag wall while
thousands of fans wave their hankies in approval isn’t
baseball, it’s some freakish anomaly played by lame
Minnesotans who know no better. The non-repeating
World Champion Minnesotans, that is. (Excuse those last
comments, please. My brother liyes in Minnesota, and I
need to cut him down at least once a week to keep in
practice.)

You’re probably asking yourself, “What can we do, as
Davidson students, to correct this serious social injustice
that threatens the very moral fiber that this country was
built on?” Well, there’s lots we can do. We can hold an
open forum to discuss the issues. We can divest from the
Tribune Co., the people who own the Cubs’ and have
forsaken Paradise for the temptation of higher TV ratings._
We can deny tenure to any professor who doesn’t think. .
putting lights in Wrigley is the work of Satan and/or his
Communist brethren. And last but not least, we can go up
to Wrigley Field and vandalize those lights! “But, Steve,”
you're saying, “isn’t the Davidson student a bit overquali:
fied for.that job?”. Well, yes, he is, but. he’ll probably just
blow it off and go get wasted, anyway. But, please, if you
do go get wasted, don’t ask for just any light. Make sure it’s
a Bud Light.

Steven Reynolds is a junior English major from Knoxville,
™N

CENTRAL AMERICA, from p. 9

his family should they fall into the wrong hands. Therefore,
we did not write his name down. This is the story he asked
us to share:

“T had a difficult childhood. When I was at the age of
four my father died. My mother remarried. When I was
seven, my mother died. After her death I had a very bad
experience with my stepfather. I went to live with an uncle
who was taken to prison. I moved in with a man living
nearby, but he treated me badly. At age twelve I was sent
to do my military service and then I came to live with an
aunt.

When I was twenty I got married. My wife and I had
nothing. We had toraisecropson rented land. I kept helping
the army as amilitary commissionary and as such I rounded
up draft-age youth. My crops had to be carried down to the
coast. That’s about twenty miles up and down mountains.
I did this to make enough money to send my children to
school. [He chuckles] I taught my children two things: how
to use a hoe and how to get an education.

Finally I bought land for a house and all my children got
an education. One now leads classes. All in all I had ten
children. Five survived.

In 1966 or 1967 they began a literacy program. I worked
with the Catholic mission from 1964 onwards.

The 1960s were happy times in our village. We could.

have our fields. We had avocados, peaches, coffee, beans.

Wedidn’tknow of people carrying weapons, people killing —

each other. In. the 1980s we know what that’s like. We

know what it’s like to have people killed, taken out of their .

houses. There is no tranquility, no peace. People can’t go
out to work in the fields. Now the police ask for you papers
and if you don’t have them, they’ ll hit you.

There is a problem with language, too. We can "tdefend ;

ourselves because 95% of us don’t speak Spanish; we speak
the Indian dialect. Therefore, sometimes they are killed
because they can’t defend themselves.

In January the army did a survey and took down. the
names of kids and parents to make a wanted persons list.

They said the list was for free notebooks. [The notebooks -

have never arrived.}] Now they stop people on their way to

the fields and ask for their papers. If your name is ona list °

they take you away. It is a big dilemma. There is a danger
for people to work in the field, and if you don’t go to the
field, you starve. People are afraid of what might happen to
them.

I have never seen the guerrillas that the military say are
here. The military closed the school. Now there are 5,000
to 6,000 children in our community who are not in school.
A missionary was killed in this village. Recently amission-
ary from Minnesota was threatened and had to leave. -

Three weeks ago [this would have been early February)
they took five people from their houses. Three were found
dead; two are still missing. On December 22 two women
were killed. The army claimed they found the bodies
already murdered and brought them here, charging that
someone from the village had killed them.”

He ended here, witha warm smile anda hervous laugh,
and thanked us for listening to him. He had hoped he had

helped us in our education experience and expressed
gratitude for our interest. Finally he asked us to guard
carefully those thoughts he had shared with us, and some-
how I knew at that moment that they would be among the
most precious my notebook would hold.

Caroline Craig is a senior History major from Tallahassee,
FL.

Why are all of Davidson’s
examinations called “reviews”?

Lucia Kendall

Why are all the tests at Davidson called “reviews”? This
isn’tamajorproblem with Davidson life, of course, but it’s
annoying in an Andy Rooney kind of way.

The way I’d always understood it, to “review” meant
going over notes and texts again in order to prepare for a
test (as opposed to “cram” which meant trying to stuff as
much material as possible into one’s brain before it
explodes and splatters knowledge all over the wall).

It seems like the administration is trying to trick us into
believing that 4 review is actually 25 students in a Cham-
bers classroom furiously scribbling down every fact, con-
cept, or piece of B.S that occurs to them. .

Maybe this euphemism i isaplotby the counseling center
to soothe stressed-out students ‘by the use of a word that

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:

¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we're partial to
them).

« All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

« All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

Opinions Policy

doesn’t sound as threatening. Funny how words like “25%
of your grade,” which often follow the word “review” can
restore that threatening quality.

Another problem with using “review” to mean “test” is
that you can’t use it to mean “review” anymore. Do.
students review. for a review?

One solution to these difficulties is to reform the entire
language so that “review” means test and test means
“review”: a movie review would be a movie test, a driver’s
license test would be a driver’s license review, SAT’s
would become SAR’s. In time, the reform might extend to
such words as. “review-tube babies,” “the New Re-
viewament,” and “reviewicles.”

‘Odd as it may seem, “test” sounds to me like a perfectly
good word for a test.

Lucia Kendall is a sophomore English major from Pitts-
burgh, PA.

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish their names
printed with their work.

‘e The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

Letters should be under .300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

«The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

¢ All submissions should include the author’s address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author's home
city and state, graduating class, and major field of Study (or
profession).

