The Meaning of Life, page 7

2%

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 13

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Tuesday, December 13, 1988

Faculty committee recommends
Division III for all sports

Controversy erupts over use of academic data in study

By JENNIFER L. HOFFMAN
and THOMAS H. MOORE

The three faculty members of the Advi-.

sory Council on Intercollegiate Athletics
have released their comprehensive finan-
cial and academic study of Davidson Col-
lege’s athletics program.

The report agrees with Davidson’s trus-
tee committees in their recommendation to
move football to NCAA Division III, but
with an important condition. If the move
‘is a first step toward Division III for all
sports, itis a step in the right direction,’ the
report says. ‘‘But if the trustees do not
intend to move the entire athletics program
to Division Ill, we believe this decision
will have to be reconsidered.”’

It also stresses as its first recommenda-

tion that the faculty ‘‘affirm its strong sup-.

port for’ physical education and competi-
tive athletics as a vital part of a Davidson
liberal arts education and its appreciation

_Of-the positive contribution of student ath-
letes to the life of the college.’’

The report outlines four possible options
for Davidson athletics, and states that keep-
ing football in Division I would require an
additional $1.6 million annually in the
athletics budget in order to reach the equi-

table division of funds between men and

women’s sports that: federally-mandated
Title IX may require. Even if football were
to drop to Division III, an additional
$700,000 would be needed, according to
the:report.

It also said that i incoming football play-
ers score 100 points lower on the SATs than
Davidson’s average, and that over the last

body asked me that,’

-members of the commit-

interpreted broadly, said

11 years, 27% of the Honor Code violations
committed were by football players.

The faculty received the report at its
meeting last week and the report’s recom-
mendations were passed overwhelmingly.
The Davidsonian has obtained a copy, and
it is reprinted on pages 2 and 3.

The three faculty on the council authored
the report: assistant professor of economics
David Martin, assistant professor of reli-

gion Trent Foley and associate professor of .

history Peter Krentz, chairman of the fac-
ulty portion of the council.
Members of the coun-

firmly committed to Division I, we said
that if they are committed to Division I ath-
letics, they need to go ahead and drop
football, but the report itself -is not anti-
football per se,’’ Krentz said.

Committee ‘members stated that the
numbers contained within the report were
checked by Athletic Director Kit Morris
and Vice President for Finance Bob Sut-
ton’s offices. A source within the athletic
department said the numbers were correct.
‘“Depending on how you want to crunch
them, they’re reasonably accurate.”’

Reaction to the six-page report was fa-
vorable, according to faculty members. ‘‘I
thought the committee report was a good
one,” said associate professor of political
science Tom Kazee. ‘‘It was carefully re-
searched. It was as exhaustive a look at the
athletic issue as we’ve seen for some time,
and I think the faculty was pleased that it
had some of the facts that it needed.”’

Associate professor of biology Verna

See REPORT, page 3 -

cil are nominated to
serve by the faculty’s
Professional © Affairs ©
Committee and are then
elected. by the..entire
faculty to three year |
terms, with one member
rotating off each year. ‘‘I
was interested, but no-

said Krentz.

Martin, Foley and
Krentz began meeting
this summer to address
issues raised by a faculty
resolution,

The faculty asked

tee tO assess costs, a
mandate .. which’ they

Krentz. ‘‘Because we
were not unaware that
the trustees are. pretty

ast uid

SCBRP

qaama2 anomie Seats

It’s exam time again! A weary Clint Massengill is seen through the eyes of a computer. Photo by Alex Hayden

Self-selection results returned: natives rejoice

Campus witnesses the usual celebrations, alcohol policy violations

.. By PETER BYNUM
Last: Thursday, freshmen

turned-in their Patterson Court

preference cards, and, as usual,
Friday night was set aside as a
time to celebrate the decisions of
court held true to many Self-se-
lection traditions, as freshmen
and upperclassmen alike were

seen beer sliding, drinking cham-
pagne, and enjoying the normal

ecgienel +o. mittee aaah

Davidson. However, an underly-
ing motivation seemed to dictate
the events of the evening, a desire

- to revive the yearly inter-frater-

nity pledge rivalries.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon set the
ball rolling early as goats pelted
the Kappa Sigma house with
eggs, starting an exchange of
several volleys of food. Sopho-
more Carl van Osdall feels that

“everybody should be in their:

own houses instead of causing

problems at other ones.”” Later in
the night someone stole and
smashed the Kappa Sig letters. ‘‘If
this keeps up,’” said van Osdall,
“‘its gonna be out of control.”
But according to sophomore

Clay Adams the ‘‘biggest coup”
d’etat of the evening was Pika’s .

finagling of Rusk.””

It seems that several Pi Kappa
Alphas (Pikas), in an attempt to
revitalize their party, went over
and invited the entire Rusk house

to join them. With their floor
buckling under the weight of the
largest membership on the court,
the Ruskies took them up on their
offer and migrated en masse to the
Pika house.

In addition to its celebratory
aspects, Self-selection night also
represents the end of the rush

season. The fraternities have |
completed the task of replenish-

ing their numbers, and many stu-

dents feel that a burden has been

lifted.

“It’s a relief of tensions that
tend to arise during the Self-selec-
tion period,’’ said sophomore
Chris Scott. ‘‘People can let their
guards down and get on with the
development of more. genuine

Here are the actual numbers of
new members, excluding sopho-

See SELECT!, page 5

