sports

Baseball team loses to UNCC; Stoeckel cites inexperience

By LARRY
DAGENHART

The Davidson baseball
team’s record fell to 18-11
after a 17-8 loss to the
UNCC 49ers.

UNCC pounded the Wild-
cats for 20 hits and three
home runs while Davidson
amassed 11 hits and two
homers.

Highlights included a
three-run shot in the sixth
inning by Ralph Isernia,
scoring Ron Krarcik and
George Halter, and a solo
homer in the ninth hy-sepfor
Roy Vilardi, his fifth on the
year.

Coach Jim Stoeckel said
that getting behind early and
using some players that
haven’t had as much experi-

ence as others contributed to —

the loss.

“The only way for the
guys (pitchers) to get experi-
ence is just to come out and
throw,” he said.

Coach Stoeckel also com-
mented that UNCC is a lot
better thatn their 11-14 rec-
ord shows and that they hit

‘Furman University.

the ball more consistently
than most of the other teams
they have played.

“I wish we could have
made a better showing, but
that’s baseball—we’ Il havea
game like this and tomorrow
will be a different day.”

A pair of those days oc-
curred over the weekend, as
Davidson .set itself in the
midst of the conference race
with a series victory over

The teams split a double-
header on Saturday, Furman
taking a 9-2 decision and
Davidson rebounded with an
8-5 victory. On Sunday, the ©
Cats took the series with a 6-
2 victory.

Outstanding for the Cats
were Captain Rob Zimmer-
man, who went four for nine
for the series and collected
two home runs, and sopho-
more Greg Wilcox, who
pitched well on Sunday for
the victory.

The win on Sunday put
Davidson at 3-3 on the con-
ference season.

The Cats face league-lead-

ing Western Carolina in a is
game set this weekend, with a dou-
bleheader on Friday and a single
game on Saturday, all at 1:00.

Sophomore Peter Hughes gets a piece of the ball.

NOTES: Davidson continues to have
four hitters above .350 with Mike Hol-
land (.351), Peter Hughes (.371), Roy
Vilardi (.376), and Chris Stuart (.400).

If Davidson wins 26 games this
season, it will break the season record
of wins for any Davidson baseball
team.

, 9 eee os ; i ; ies

Lucy Siler

Women’s tennis beats UNCC, loses to Hope College

The Davidson women’s tennis team went
2-2 last week to bring itsrecord to 11-8. The
team was hurt by the injury to number one
player Amy McNelis who is still out indefi-
nitely. However, in spite of her absence the

team still performed fairly well.

The Lady Cats’ biggest victory came
against UNCC. The team avenged last
year’s 5-4 loss with acommanding 7-2 win.
Virginia Hall moved from her usual num-
ber three spot to the number one slot to
replace McNelis. She started the team with
a straight victory over her opponent, Also
winning their singles matches were Mary
Beth Ruth, Marion Stone, Jane Price, AL-
ice Stubbs, and Angela Rudert. Stone’s

returned and had practiced only a little
since returning. Coach Brown juggled the
doubles line-up and the new number three
team of Rudert-Ruth won their match.
The Lady Cats were not able to keep their
momentum going against Hope College. In
the past the team has had little trouble with
Hope, but this year they lost 7-2. The team

was not at full strength since McNelis was _.

injured, the number four player Price did
not play, and the number six Debbie DeCou
was seeing her first college action. The
winners were Stubbs in singles and the team
of Rudert-Ruth in doubles.

The team bounced back from this loss to
defeat Ohio University in a tight match.
The teams split the singles matches with

Ruth, Stubbs, and Rudert winning their
matches. Coach Brown’ snew doubles line-
up paid off as the Lady Cats won two of the
three matches. The Stone-Stubbs team
joined the undefeated Ruth-Rudert team to
bring the team from a come from behind
victory. This was the team’s first 5-4 win of
the season.

On Tuesday march 29 the Lady Cats
travelled to Furman to battle the defending
conference champion Paladins. Although
the team lost 7-2 the score is deceiving.
Because of conference rules the team could
not move Hall to the number one slot since
she is scheduled to play number three at the
conference tournament.

Thus number seven player Stubbs was

forced to play number one singles where
she almost upset Furman’s number one
player. Davidson also lost two other close
matches. On the winning side, Ruth and
Price upset their opponents. In doubles
though the Paladins proved to be the better
team by sweeping all three matches, the
team’s solid performance in the singles at
less than full strength gives Coach Brown
optimism about the team’s chance to still
win the tournament.

Overall, when McNelis returns, the line-
up should be set for the rest of the season.
Hopefully having a set squad will help the
doubles teams learn to play together and
give the team a decent chance to win the
conference tournament.

victory is most impressive since she just

Women’s track 9th at Emory

By BILL SMITH

The Track team competed in the Emory Small
College Invitational on Saturday March 26th and
returned with pleasing performances. In the men’s
division, Davidson accumulated eleven points to fin-
ish thirteenth in a field of nineteen teams; in the
women’s *division, Davidson amassed twenty-one
points and placed ninth out of sixteen teams. Coach
Andrew was happy with the outcome from such alarge
invitational and a fine Emory track. :

Davidson’s men were strongest in the 10,000-meter
run where three runners finished in the top seven slots.
Jay Clugston was the lead runner placing fourth with
a time of 33:23; Chris Fisher ran behind Clugston to
finish fifth with a 33:38; and Steve Childs picked up

“seventh running a 34:54. Bob Cornish collected
points in the steeplechase event by running 10:32 to
come in fourth place.

Unfortunately, Doug Saintsing returned injured
from a freak accident involving his leg and the dis-
tance markers in the infield.

He still participated.and threw the javelin 137 feet,
5 inches to win seventh, but he could be out for the
season. Also, Jeff Williamson didn’t make the trip
south due to an injury.

The four-by-400 meter men’s relay team ran their
best time this season as they combinedto run a 3:32.5.
John Lantis opened with 52.3, Larry Ray ran the

second leg in 53.7, David Maynard followed with
a 52.6, and David Petranick finished in a 54.1.

For the women’s team, the point-finishers were
Missy Willis, Katie Reynolds, Lisa Culbertson,
Chelley Alexander, and Kathy MacDonald.

Missy Willis finished fourth in the 1500-meter
run by running a time of 5:04--she unfortunately
is hurt slightly now and didn’t run in the 800-
meter. Katie Reynolds worked through a few
cramps and placed third in the 10,000-meter with
a 42:25 time. Following Reynolds was Lisa
Culbertson in a time of 44:49, good for sixth
place.

CoachAndrew was pleased with all three girls

in the 10,000 (Vanessa Barton ran just behind
Culbertson).

Chelley Alexander ran lead for Davidson in the
800-meter and finished fourth with atime of 2:36.
Kathy MacDonald cleared four feet, ten inches in
the high jump to place third--she also is hurt
slightly now with shin splints and could not jump
at her potential.

The Davidson Relays are nexton April first and
second, followed by the North Carolina Colle-
giate State Championships in Chapel Hill the
ninth. Coach Andrew indicated that the team will
rest a little in preparation for the Davidson Re-
lays.

confer Sane Wihdy wees
are seniors Roy Vilardi and Rob Zimmerman of the baseball team.

Trivia question: The 1988 Summ Olympics will be held in
Seoul, South Korea, in September. “When was the last time the

vay Games were held on the Asian continent? [Answer next
wee)

/

