Int’] Festival photos, page 10

The Davi

sonian

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, September 15, 1988

Volume LXXX, Number 4 .

A.worker at the new dormitory site talks to a reporter. His identity has been carefully concealed by Davidsonian artists.

‘On the job:-what do the workers say?

"By DAVID SCOTT

Hauling, shoveling, cursing
and hoping you look busy enough
to keep the boss-man off your
back. ‘These are all parts of a
typical working man’s day. ‘In the
speculation surrounding all the
construction going on at
Davidson, the plight of the actual
workers has been largely ignored.
These are the men who really
know what’s going on from the

inside, and their comments to this
Davidsonian reporter raised some
interesting questions.

Reporter toacarpenter working
on. the new dorms: “So, do you
think these dorms are going to be
ready by the new completion
dates?” :

Carpenter: “I don’t know, when

are they?”

Reporter: “Well, for this one
here, September 29.”

~ Carpenter: “Ain’t no way in
hell.”

That’s pretty definitive, folks. I
hope you seniors are enjoying the
rough life down at the Holiday
Inn. They don’t even get HBO.

Now don’t fret too much, all
you who care. This carpenter was
quite the jovial type and this re-
porter is leaving open the possi-
bility that he was pulling my rip-
chord, so to speak. To him, it all

didn’t seem to matter too much.
‘The hassle, the overtime, the pres-
sure. It’s just another job.

I asked this carpenter if he
thought the rush to meet the clos-
ing deadlines was putting undue
emphasis on speed, resulting in
hurried work and possibly mis-
takes.

“Mess it up, do it again,” he
replied while reaching into the
cab of his pick-up for a quick can

Photo by Alex Hayden

of spam to break up the monotony
of the day. He had_to get back to
his job.

Other workers viewed the situ-
ation a bit differently. An electri-
cal sub-contractor who hadn’t

- been in the business very long

showed more concern over the
rapid pace on the work site. He

See WORKERS, page 4

Phone system update: changes coming

By MARIA DOUGLAS

Students are experiencing ©

some problems adapting to the
‘new SouthernNet/ Southern Bell
“ESSX phone system, adopted os-
fensibly to ae oe idé b tte x more

convenient service to the

Bob Stephenson, Director of
Administrative Services, said
they are doing everything they
can to address student concerns
and iron out wrinkles in the sys-

“We’re investigating a means

panies used a formula to deter--
mine how many lines were neces-
sary to provide standard service.
Southern Net recommended one
T1 circuit, ee 24
lines.

“The assumptions ‘didn’t work

other T1 circuit to handle the
load.

Stephenson said despite the
problems, overall response has
been favorable. Many students
ai : :

“Overall, I think it’s worse,”

last winter to determine if the
college was better off using its
own “switch” or using part of
Southern Bell’s big “switch.” The
study advocated using part of
Southern Bell’s system for sev-
eral reasons.

Davidson College community. of providing collect and credit out,” Stephenson said. Mostprob- comments junior Katherine Stephenson said the main rea-

Major complaints include not card service,” Stephenson said. _ lems occur during peak “traffic Kraemer. “It doesn’t offer as son wasto provide aservice to the
being able to make credit card or Stephenson met with Southern- hours” between 9 p.m. and 9:30 many pluses.” Kraemer said she students. Now students don’t
collect calls because there is no _Nét representatives last week to p.m. and between 10 pat. and thinks the system benefits the have to worry about getting phone
access to an AT&T operator. A discuss the possibility of adding 11: 30 p.m. administration more than the stu- service at the beginning of school
shortage of outgoing long dis- those services to our current sys-. “We definitely will be ordering dents. “If they work out the prob- because it is automatically pro-.
tance lines during peak hours has: tem. He is waiting to hear from more lines,” Stephenson said. lems, that’s fine with me.” vided.
also upset many students. "the representatives on their find- . “Southern Net has assured us they The system does benefit the Students. can dial others stu-

SouthernNet is the long-dis- ings. will expedite an order for us.”” administration in that-callsdonot dents on campus with four digits
tance carrier now used by the Also under investigation isthe Now, it’s just a matter of how have torouted through the switch- and reach administrative and fac-
college. ESSX is the switching addition of long distance lines. many lines to add. Stephenson based eet Gare vce he expe ulty offices without having to go
system operated: by Southern Stephenson said that when the said they will be looking at sion. .
Bell. The two systems are sepa- college was shopping for a long whether it is more expensive to . id diciaiin wiseilialt Vie aye- See PHONES, page 4
rate. distance carrier, the phone com- _ add single lines or installing an- _tem is the result of a study done

oO News: gait AS Features: “i Sports: ‘ Non-Profit Organization

O Epic news from Beyond Epic Bob the Carrot & Murf, with Epic interview by Hap Bryant US. Postage Paid :

wT) Davidson by Beth Drummond nudity that we might as well say with Christopher B. “Kit” Morris. Permit #1

z and Ed Powell. — now was Clipped from the 1961 Page ll . ‘Davidson, N.C. 28036

5 . Page 3 Quips & Cranks. Page 7 <

