Features

Lage

Aloha Summer

By BRUCE PLOURDE

Thursday, February 4 was premiere night
in Charlotte for Aloha Summer. To cele-
brate, three of the movie’s stars, Chris
Makepeace, Lorie Griffin and Sho Kosugi
came to the theater to sign autographs and
hobnob with the hoi polloi. Arriving ten
minutes before the movie was supposed to
start, I snatched up my promotional Hawai-
ian polyurethane lei and my promotional
poster and elbowed my way through the
throng. of prepubescent girls toward Chris
Makepeace. Affecting my toothiest grin, I
shook hands withhim.

“Hey Chris! Bruce  Plourde,
Davidsonian. Mind signing my poster?”

“Mr. Makepeace.”

“Beg pardon?”

“Call me Mr. Makepeace.”

“How about Master Makepeace?”

“Can I have my hand back?”

“What?”

“Stop shaking my hand.”

“Oh. Right. So, what have you been
doing since My Bodyguard?”

“About eight movies.” é

“No kidding! Which ones?”

“Well, I wasin Vamp, The Falconand the

Confidential Health

The lowdown on

Dear Confidential Health:

I’m writing to you because I’m afraid for
someone who I care about very much. He’s
a great guy, a great rugby player, and one of

the sweetest men I’ve ever met. In a word, .

we’rein love. ButI can’t understand why he
smokes pot and does mushrooms. He and a
lot of guys in his fraternity do. I’m afraid to
talk to him about it directly, because I’m
afraid he’ll get angry.

He keeps saying to me (and to himself,
too, I think) that drugs like pot and mush-
rooms aren’t bad for you, because they’re
“natural.” They say they’re not as bad as
chemical drugs. I’m notso sure. I tried them
a few times with him, and I'll admit that I
felt wonderful. I wanted to do itall the time.
I still feel that way, but something keeps
telling me that it might not be such a good
idea to get really involved in doing this. Tell
me: can this stuff really hurt me? Is it really
just a scam you people put on to keep us
from enjoying ourselves? Are these natural
drugs really O.K.?

A freshwoman

Dear Freshwoman:

Experimenting with mood-altering sub-
stances is quite common among college
students and is as old as the history of

CHRIS MAKEPEACE

Snowman...”

“Really? Which part did you play in The
Falcon and the Snowman?”

“IT was Sean Penn’s younger brother.”

“Ah yes, [remember it well. Didn’t you
get an Oscar nomination for that?”

“No.”

“Should have.
Charlotte?”

“T thought this was Atlanta.”

“Nope. Charlotte.”

“Oh.” ;

- “So, tell me about your new movie.”

“Why don’t you just go see it?”

“Will it be worth my while?”

“Oh yes, I’ve seen it twice already. Great
movie. Take all your friends.”

“Okay. I’m kinda sorry they didn’t pay
you more for the effort, though.”

“What?” Ae

“Well, why are you wearing Lawrence
Welk’s hand-me-downs?”

“I have more money in my left pocket
than you’ll ever see in your lifetime.”

“Oh, can I see?”

“No.” .

At this point in the interview the theater
manager gave a general call for everybody

So, how do you like

mankind. You must recognize that there is
significant danger even with so-called
“natural” substances because of great un-
certainty about contaminates and long-
term effects. :

We know that marijuana is often con-
taminated with insecticides, paraquat,
PCP, and several types of fungus. All of
these chemicals have significant toxic ef-
fects involving primarily the lungs and
central nervous system. Aspergillus molds
can cause a chronic lung condition that is
difficult to treat. Finally, long-tern pot
smoking causes premalignant changes in
the lungs similar to cigarette smoking.
Long term outcome of marijuana smoking
with relation to lung and other cancers
remains to be seen. We do know that THC
and its metabolites are stored in the body fat
for prolonged periods of time.

The mushrooms your friends are using
probably contain psilocybin, a hallucino-
gen. All hallucinogens have been reported
to induce psychosis requiring extensive
psychiatric care. Unfortunately, the effects

of these drugs are unpredictable and vary

widely between individuals and the
circumstances surrounding their ingestion.
Again, toxic, fungi may be taken in with
mushrooms, Another possibility to con-
sider is that the wrong type of mushroom

.“If Chris Makepeace says it’s good,
- well, it’s gotta be good.”

to take a seat, as the movie was about to
begin.

“Ah well, gottarun, Chris. Nice chatting
with you. Hey, next time you’re in Char-
lotte have your girl call my girl. We’ll do
lunch. Later. Love ya, babe.”

Before the movie started, a man stood
before the audience and told us what Aloha
Summer was all about and how great it was.
Filmed in Hawaii, it’s the teen story of two
Americans, two Japanese and two Hawai-

_ians who spend the luau-filled summer of .

*59 on the island paradise.

For those who might criticize a simply
hedonistic movie, the man in the theater
said that it dealt with the issue of prejudice.
The Kanaka (native Hawaiians) accept the
money of the Howlies (mainland tourists)
but resent their presence on the island. The
Japanese, with memories of World War II
lingering, hate the Americans. And the
Americans express prejudice toward every-
body. The teenagers, however, are too
young to have been affected by their par-
ents’ narrow-mindedness and get. along
despite their various backgrounds.

But don’t be misled by the man in the
theater. Aloha Summer takes on the issue of
prejudice in the same way that Porky’ s did.
Nobody left that movie thinking about anti-
Semitism.

And nobody will leave this one thinking
about race relations between Americans,
Hawaiians and Japanese. What will im-
press the audience is the beautiful scenery
of Hawaii and the rollicking good times of
the’six friends. _

Aloha Summer represents a return to the

film of yesteryear, when beach movies

were all the fad. I kept expecting Frankie
and Annette to jump out from behind a
coconut tree. Chuck (Don Michael Paul),
the rich-kid, blonde, square-jawed Adonis,
draws together the small band of trouble
seekers with his brazen manner and quick

affection. Mike (Master Makepeace) pro-.

vides the cast with a pair of blue eyes and
some semblance of sincerity.

may be ingested and this can be fatal.
People using these substances do not
become chemically dependent on them, but
long-term changes in behavior have been
seen, particularly in pot users. Some of
"these changes include apathy and slowed
mentation.
Finally, possession of thesé substances is

Together with their Japanese and Hawai-
ian friends Chuck and Mike perform the
solemn rites which comprise a profound,
transcendent, meaningful beach holiday:

1. Chase women.

2. Have campfires on the beach.
3. Surf.

4. Charm the natives.

5. Fight with the Marines. -
6. Crap on the parents and get away with
as much as possible.

7. Dance to the best soundtrack since Pee
Wee's Big Adventure.

8. Drink.

9. Get a lei.
(The above list is provided for born critics).

Chuck and Mike, for all their good looks
and gumption, aren’t memorable or even
really likeable. The two characters who do
shine through the adolescent exploitation

- of this film are Ken-do (Yuji Okumoto) and

his father (Sho Kosugi). A Japanese vet-
eran of the war, Ken’s father is also a very
traditional, proud samurai. He never ceases
to teach his son the ways of the samurai.

Ken wants to be a very good son, dedi-
cated to his father and the family’s tradi-
tions, but in Hawaii he aches to rid himself
of his guilt and have a good time with his
friends. Whereas the decadence of the
other degenerates doesn’t matter much,
Ken’s rebellion against his father leads to a
powerful episode in the story.

Even Ken-do, like his beach buddies, is
on a quest for identity. In order to become

‘a person one must rebel against the author-

ity that prevents a young man’s growth to
adulthood.

Every teenager knows this. Herein lies
their justification and the ground plans for
their own rebellion. As such, I predict that
Aloha Summer will be immensely popular
among those still in their cavity-prone years

_, as well as fraternity members.

If Chris Makepeace says it’s good, well,
it’s gotta be good.

“natural” pharmaceutical recreation

illegal. A misdemeanor conviction can
seriously hamper your ability to become
licensed to practice medicine, nursing, or
law in the future.

Gotta question? Feeling confidential?
Write to: Confidential Health,

Davidson College Infirmary

Davidson, NC 28036

Engel’s view

— LOCKS LIKE You
| AND ME, BvD.

awe

