Wednesday, February 10, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Davidsonian interview: Edwin Yoder

Davidsonian: Tell us a little bit about your background. I
-understand you grew up in Greensboro.

Yoder: Actually, I grew up in Meadow. My father ran a
school there. Do know where Meadow o You blink your
eyes and you may miss it.

Davidsonian: Youattended UNC-CH ina edited the paper
there. Had youintended on going into journalism when you
entered school?

Yoder: Well, I was thinking about it. I was already
interested in it, but I really hadn’t made up mind and really
didn’t ever make up my mind. I just sort of went into it and
Stayed in it. But it was definitely an interest of my mine,
although I wasn’t in the journalism school.
Davidsonian: Are newspapers now looking only for re-
porters who have degrees in journalism?

Yoder: Not to my knowledge. As a matter of fact, I think
probably that most editors I know would be looking for a
good, sound arts and sciences background.

Davidsonian: You have been involved in the newspaper
business for the last 20-25 years. What have been some of
the major changes you’ve seen in the way the media
approaches national politics? For instance, it seems that
the press has become much more aggressive in the manner
in which it reports the news.

Yoder: Well, I don’t know whether it’s a difference in the
degree of aggressiveness or not. The rules of journalism
certainly have changed. My belief is that the main reason
why they changed was the McCarthy period. It was a very
formative period in my life and my attitude towards things
in politics. There is an interesting book called The Fourth
Branch of Government that explains a lot of this very well.

What happened was the old rules of journalism required
what was known as objectivity. There was a slavish effort
to avoid not simply editorializing but anything that might
smack of commentary, interpretation--anything that might
put a news story into any kind of context--was practically
forbidden under the old rules of print journalism. It was
“who, what, when, where, but not why.”

I think that there was a realization that this was a setup
for McCarthy because all he had to do was tell the most
irresponsible lies which the diligent reporter certainly
knew to be lies. But the reporters really had no way of
indicating in the news stories these gross distortions of fact.
As you probably know from your history reading, he
[McCarthy] caused a great deal of difficulty.

I think that was the major event in the evolution--the
single thing that changed the rules of journalism more than
anything else.

Obviously television has also had an impact on print, but
I am not really quite clear on what it has been. I mean I
would be speculating and theorizing about it.

Inthecase of anewspaper like USA Today, it’s quite clear
that some’ attempt has been made to sort of translate
television values into print. But I think it [television] has
deepened the relevance of interpretive journalism, news
analysis, all'these things, because television really deals in
very superficial impressions. What most people think of as
news today is to get from television what is really not news
atall. Its really sort of random impressions of things. Its
not news in the sense in which I would use the term: in the
sense that it conveys a really precise understanding of
what’s going on.

Anyway, I think that it has had an impact and I think
television has made it even more important for print
journalism to be as interpretive as it can be--short of
editorializing news.

Davidsonian: What effect.do you think the loss of com-
petitive papers in major markets has had? Very few major
metropolitan areas now have competing papers. Do you
think that’s had much of an effect on print journalism?
Yoder: Well, it’sreally hard to put your finger onit. Ireally
don’t know. I don’t think it has lowered the quality of
journalism by any means. I think that would be a false
assumption if only because it has concentrated resources in
a monopoly newspaper, where you have ownership with a
sense of responsibility. It probably has generally improved
a lot of journalism.

But I don’t see a lot of papers on a regular basis. I see the
major North Carolina papers when I come down here, and
when I travel elsewhere I see the other papers. I don’t see
any noticeable decline in the quality of the papers.

In theory it is certainly a good thing to have competitive
journalism in every town. As you may know, I was an
editor of The Washington Star, and I did get to see that go

under, And I did get to see The Charlotte News go under.
Two of the three newspapers I’ve worked for are now
extinct, Idon’tknow whether I’ve had that much to do with
it; I’m not blamed for it. Anyway, it would be much bet-
ter in Washington, in my view, if there was strong compe-
tition. I thought it was a healthier situation all the way
around when we had the Star as a strong competitor to the

By JOHN BARROW and TOM MOORE

Post and as a strong institutional presence in Washington.
Davidsonian: You've mentioned McCarthy as having an
effect on the press. Do you think that Watergate had any
similar type effects?

Yoder: Well, Watergate made every ambitious reporter
into a so-called “investigative reporter,” as if investiga-
tions had been suddenly in-
vented. I think Woodward and
Bernstein did some very good
journalism, did some good dig-
ging. They turned out a lot of
stories, but I never thought that
they were primarily responsible
for turning the Nixon admini-
stration out. That really was
done by institutional processes,
by the courts, and by the grand
jury indictments and by the
Ervin Committee Investigation.

I’m not saying it wasn’t a
valuable contribution. It did
tend to have two effects--it
made every young reporter
ambitious to be a new “Wood-
stein,” and it gave everybody
the idea that the press had be-
come such a powerful institu-
tion, that it can sort of at whim
remove Presidents from office
and the like.

People given to conspiracy
theories see the press as con-
stantly plotting to compete with
the President. And I suppose
there are people in journalism who think that they are
almost as important as people in government, but there are
not very many, really.

Davidsonian: What’s your view on the recent Supreme
Court decision which allows for the censoring of school
newspapers by school officials?

Yoder: Well,1’m in sort of a box on that because, while I
haven’t written a piece since that decision, I have to admit
to you that I did write a piece based on the court briefs in
which I predicted and approved of the way the court
decision came out. I think that certainly the distinction has
to be made--and incidentally, I gota lot of disproving mail,
a whole high school journalism class somewhere--I think
a distinction certainly can be made between high school
newspapers and college newspapers. And itreally depends
on the circumstances.

That paper [in the court decision], if I remember cor-
rectly, was in effect a laboratory paper for a journalism
class. At least in educational theory, it really didn’t have
any independent status of the kind that some school papers
have.

Where school papers have an independent status, I think
it would be more problematical. I don’t think it has major
implications for student journalism. It certainly reinforces
the authority of high school administrators, but I think it
needs a little reinforcing. In fact, the fact is that the court,

-by in effect destroying the doctrine of sovereign immunity

in the case of school officials, has now exposed school ad-
ministrators, and teachers to some degree, but mainly ad-
ministrators and trustees and school boards to liability.
There was a time when school officials and school
boards, being theoretically employees of the state--public
schools--would be immune to liability for, let’s say if the
school paper libelled somebody. But that is no longer the
case. The court has removed the protection from school
officials, so it’s no surprise to me that, although I don’t
think that this was the ground for the decision, but it’s

certainly no surprise to me that it would come along and at ,

least give the school officials some authority to protect
themselves from libel suits that can be brought against a
student paper, which in thiscase, might have been a distinct
possibility, as I recall the facts.
Butanyway, I haven’tread the opinion yet, sol can’t give
you a considered opinion of the opinion itself.
Davidsonian: Y mcurious to hear your response to State of
the Union Address made this week. Specifically, Reagan
mentioned several times the revolution he has brought to
Washington. Having been a Washington observer, do you
agree with his claim that he has brought a revolution to
Washington?
Yoder: Well, let me first say something about the State of
the Union Address. I think it is almost completely irrele-
vant, and it’s show. business, and almost no attention was
paid to it beyond just the formal courtesy.of the reading of
it. It’s of no significance politically or governmentally.

Columnist Edwin Yoder lectured Jan. 29.

It’s been several years in fact since any Reagan State of
the Union Address has been of any great relevance to what
people conceive of as the real problems.

The “Reagan Revolution” is a problem. I don’t think
Reagan has had any significant effect in foreign policy. His
rhetoric was sort of standard ramboiler plate right wing
stuff before he went into office, but Reagan is temperamen-
tally very moderate, and his policies really as far'as foreign

policy [is con-

cerned]--with the
single exception
of Central Amer-
ica--have not sig-
nificantly. de-
parted, I think,
from the sort of
mainstream _ for-
eign policy.

Maybe you could
argue that the aid

to Angolais some-

thing that the

Democratic ad-

ministration

would not have
done, and _ there
may be some nu-
ance of the South

African policy

that would have

been different

under a Demo-

cratic administra-

tion, almost cer-

tainly would have
BillGiduz been. Although,
again, I think the Reagan Administration hashad a bum rap
on the South African policy because the man who has done
the South African policy is a really good, entirely informed
person, and knows Southern Africa better than any of his
critics.

When they chose “constructive engagement” as the sort
of label of the policy, it gave them misleading impressions,
I think. But you know, setting aside shadings in some of
those areas and the major exception Central America--and
I think it is a significant exception--he’s been mainstream —
in foreign policy by and large.

So you would have to say if there has been a revolution |
it has to be in domestic policy. Well, what’s happened in
domestic policy?

Reagan’s great selling point, his unique selling proposi-
tion, was a balanced budget. But his policies, and they are
his policies, have,as you well know, unbalanced the budget
to a degree completely without precedent, not only in
American history, but as far as I know, in the history of any
organized society.

I don’t think that the economic situation in this country
is healthy. I think we’re skating on very thin ice, and when
I think of Reagan’s smooth speeches, I think about skating
on thin ice. He does a lot of skating on very thin ice, and the
ice is very thin on the economic plank.

The alternatives, as I see it, are either there will be some
substantial correction of fiscal policy in the next three or
four years, or we'll have a major inflation spiral, probably
coupled with a major recession, both of which would have
very destructive effects.

If we have the two in tandem, the effect will be absolutely
devastating. My economist friends in Washington who
worry about policy, worry about what would happen if the
economy, as it very well might, suddenly begins to lurch
into a very substantial contraction because when you’re
already running deficits of this scale, you really don’t have
any elbow room for counter-cyclical policy.

Whatever Reagan has done to the fiscal structure of the
country, I think, is largely going to be undone and reversed.
It has to be. So you have to eliminate that as a i na
of the “Reagan Revolution.”

That leaves what he has done to the tax structure, and I
think that is significant. But after all, that really is Bill
Bradley’s bill as much as it was Reagan’s. Reagan and
Regan jumped on what was already a moving bandwagon
as far as a revision of the tax structure was concerned last
year.

So what does that leave you with? I really don’t know.
What is the “Reagan Revolution’? He’s had a healthy
effect on the ceremonial presence and influence of the
presidential office. He has restored some dignity and so
forth to the office--as a ceremonial office. :

‘What I always say is that he has been a pretty stylish king
but a lousy prime minister. If there’s been a “Reagan
Revolution” I really don’t know what it is.
