EXTRA Tuesday, October 11, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

POLICY, from page 1

Chapel Hill adopted a gender-blind policy
several years ago, which has led to fresh-
man classes 59 to 60 percent female. “I
don’t think there was any appetite for such
an outcome,” says Batten.

* “Chapel Hill is clearly the exception to

what has gone on,” says Gardner. “What

we did is take the list of the 100 best
colleges and look at the sex ratios and look
at the policies in place. There were only a
few that became predominantly female.
The view that suddenly we’ll be over-
whelmed with women will not pan out.”
“We are moving not toward sex-blind
admissions but toward nondiscrimination
in gender,” Gardner said. He cited athlet-
ics, Scholastic Aptitude Tests and activi-
ties as sources that colleges cannot help but
ay gender i into account. “It’ s dishonest to

meeting. “I didn’t even know that a change
in policy was being considered. I would
have hoped that people who care, who are
concerned about policies would have been
consulted,” he said.

“In that sense I was called up by The
Charlotte Observer 4:30 Friday afternoon
and the reporter said, ‘What do you think
about the policy?’ It’s not something the
faculty was given a chance to comment on.
They were allowed no input as far as I
know.”

Maydole theorized that the faculty
would recommend a sex-blind admissions
policy if asked. “It’s been quite a while
since the issue came up, but my guess is
that it would receive overwhelming sup-
port. I could be wrong. It’s a guess based on
the increasingly chemopaeee maneap of
the faculty.”

“Why not just say, we'll take people not
based on sex or creed, but based on merit.

is look at selective colleges,” he said.
“What do applications look like at places
like Davidson? If you pick out any, with
one or two exceptions, they are predomi-
nantly male.”

“The truth is, this is a very modest
change,” Batten said. “This is not a very
dramatic shift of direction at all. I feel Ney
good about it.

“It is an excellent approach that will
serve Davidson’s interests well. It was a
good solution that was generally very well
. received [by the Trustees], and I think the
college administration is ny comfortable
with it.”

One strident critic of previous quota
plans and of the new strategy is Davidson
philosophy professor Robert Maydole.
“We would be better off with a policy that
doesn’t
mention the
sex of the
appli-
cants,” he
said. “I’ve
heard that
sex is sup-
posed to be -
relevant,
but I have-
n’t seen any
: compelling arguments in favor of it so far.
If we had a sex blind admission, we would

~ - geta distribution close to the distribution in

the general population. I don’t see a point
in engineering it, especially when nature
would take care of itself.”

‘Maydole said he was parveiiedl by a
sudden alteration in policy at the Trustee

“WETS Ce, Le ei ne A eee ee ee "Whar is~it~
sexi -blind that you
when we’re and .I by
not. A lotof virtue of
schools our; male-
aren’t ness do for
being up Davidson
front.” ‘College?

Gardner The bottom
noted that line is, it
total appli-.- just doesn’t
cations in make any
the United sense. It
“States run confuses
roughly 55 . the whole
percent issue.”
female “Why
each year. we need a
“What you convoluted
“have to-do: policy

statement, and make the world wonder
whether we are taking the moral high road,
is beyond me.”

He noted that morality is one of the three

criteria by which faculty members are

judged professionally at Davidson. “That
weare a Presbyterian college ail
score even more being conscious of incor-

porating moral ideals and theories in the

making of policy. That’s not to say that:

they’re not going to be, but we ought'to at
least be deliberating and thinking hard
about the other questions.

“We really need to take a look, a careful
look at what drives our policy decisions,
and the extent to which it is present or
absent in our policy decisions. We ought to
be vigilant about making our decisions in a
moral or ethical context.”

personal
view is that
admissions
is admit-
ting people
_ to provide
an optimal
educa-
tional en-
viron.-
ment,

Cais Saya “We tabs ine) cisausecatatn
ethnicity, economic background of the par-

ents, schooling, sex, geography. They are

all important in bringing in a mix of folks.
- “Tt is important to maintain a healthy
balance between men and women to pro-
vide the best, healthiest campus environ-
ment for both men and women.”

“My-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor John Wightnian, Business Manager
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland, Cristin Williams
Section Production Editors

Quotas

The hold of rigid quotas over the admissions process has been broken. It’s
a step in the right direction, but one that does not go far enough.

The reason for keeping any kind of gender system at all is ostensibly to
keep in check “sharp year-to-year shifts that would be disruptive to the
programs and logistics of the College,” according to the new plan.

It seems odd that Davidson College alone cannot cope with yearly changes
in enrollment. Many other schools seem to have endured through the years
without the benefit of discriminatory quotas. We are a brightenough lot, and
we should be able to come up with some solutions.

Dr. Maydole has a good point, and it’s not solely because key staff.

_members have him for class this term. There is no good reason to heavily

base admissions on anything but merit. This merit may be determined
through a variety of means, but gender should not be one of them.

What is the reason for the reluctance of the Trustees to go completely
gender-blind?

Are we afraid of the Chapel Hill Spectre: 60-40 female-male? Of course,
it is also Chapel Hill: the school busy establishing itself as one of the top
research universities in the nation. We can’t be too afraid of a similar,
Davidison-sized fate.

Is it tradition? The ideal of The Davidson Man at stake? Do these seem too
childish to bring up publicly? Davidson is chock full of tradition, and it is
a valid concern that may be getting swept under the carpet in the hustle.

The financial factors have been thoroughly analyzed, the legal considera-

..tions scrutinized, the logistical problems looked at. Why not examine the

deeply subjective elements of the admission decisions such as tradition?
They’re there: They may prove insufficient reasons to stop the march
toward sex-blind admissions, but they should be looked at nonetheless.

~~ Ben Craig

Those of us in the Davidson College community were shocked and
saddened to ‘learn yesterday of the death of Ben Crag. { Chairman of
Davidson’s Board of Trustees.

Mr. Craig’s list of accomplishments goes for pages, and it would be
superfluous to list them here. What should be said, however, is that Mr.
Craig served his college family well, first as able studeni and gifted athlete,
then in various posts spread throughout the college structure, as a Trustee
and, finally, as Chairman of the Trustees.

Today, Mr. Craig was buried in the college cemetery. He fies forever near
his college and he will lie easy, among friends in his debt.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for
firstclass postal rates. Se eee
of Davidson College.

Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll, in a class by herself. ~
‘News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond,
Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell,
Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott; Gary Wheeler. .

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret
Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat
Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen,
Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Sharinon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali
Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Bums, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John
Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett,
Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, ee ene ny Serke
| Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Malis.

» Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, seen Manian Sesh, Mak Gee,

i cate ahs ae aceasta

