Tuesday, December 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

the inner-city Charlotte area.

R

News Shorts -

"Penn oF: Don Cin Chi Sammi wag wih

Chapel Committee sponsors

Awareness Weekend January 13-15

The Chapel Committee is sponsoring Awareness Weekend January 13-15. Partici-
pating students will spend the weekend in Charlotte doing various service projects in

The group will stay at Christ the King Center, an Episcopal church near a Habitat
for Humanity project. Students will have the option of staying one night or two

Projects for the weekend include working at the Salvation Army, the Uptown Day
Shelter, Habitat for Humanity, Metrolina Food Bank, Seigle Avenue Church, and ~

a We SEAL 1 ~

# ear

‘members of the Chapel Committee to organize the weekend plans.

Anyone interested in pancpating shoul contact Secretary Christine D Davidson

pig se lpe cu ra Cae te

Cock wins Kappa Sig scholarship _ pst Sauk Me
The Endowment Fund of the olla ania Kip Paaselly tiie < eee ie

Ashton Brothers Scholarship to senior religion major JohnP. Cock. Heiscurrently the <

he Honor Come, eck ea, SC en tir Haman wolved with

ees ee roeae

Media board to pick editors
of student publications

Candidates will have to have one year’s
experience on Staffs to be considered

By TRIPP HELMS

The Media Board, composed of repre-
sentatives of the administration, faculty
and the student body, decided in a meeting
last week to choose the heads of all student
sponsored media organizations.

For the last few years, the editors of The
Davidsonian, The Wildcat Handbook, and
Quips and Cranks have been chosen by the
student body in an SGA-sponsored elec-
tion.

The members of the Media Board, given
authority to oversee all student-run media
organizations on campus by the College’s
constitution, felt that a different selection
process would alleviate ‘‘several problems
and questions’’ about the election process,
says Director of College Relations and
committee member Jerry Stockdale.

One of these problems, says Stockdale, is
the recruitment of candidates for the edi-
tors of Quips and Granks and the Wildcat
Handbook. The current editors for both
were appointed because no one signed up
to run for the position.

Junior Media Board member Tim Sparks
was pleased with the change ‘‘because it
gives people with greater sense of what’s
going on with publications a say in how
they are going to be run.”’ He feel this will

NO CREDIT CHECK. Buy any§ Force commission. You may also for a scholarship that
Jewelry, Clothing ,Sport- pa a plus $100 tax free per academ-
-FORMERLY THE PI7Z.A CONNECTION- fing Goods, Mie) At sttith :
ONLY OUR NAME HAS CHANGED! tronics. & MORE! A wit Cc AR
- : -sinstallment payments out ( pase le Na ed
FREE DELIVERY! Boe our "Giant 100+ Pages fi

892-9046

PARTY SPECIAL
1 25% OFF ANY THREE (3) OR MORE PIZZA ORDER I
FOR DAVIDSON STUDENTS ONLY!

3 Two FOR ONE SPECIAL
1 TWO (2) 12° CHEESE PIZZAS...
H ONLY $9.00 + TAX
Hi ($1. 25 EA. ADDITIONAL TOPPING) 3

ONE (1) 12° PIZZA WITH TWO TopPinGs}
AND 2 16 OZ. DRINKS... H

ONLY $8.25 + TAX 1

alleviate the possibility of an editor being
elected solely on the basis of popularity,
even if the candidate has no previous expe-
rience or qualifications.

The board also decided not to consider
any candidates who do nothave at least one
year of experience on the publication they
want to head.

The power to choose editors, along with
the. power to remove them from office, is
listed in the Davidson College Constitution
as part of the media board’s responsiblity.
According to Stockdale, the board dele-
gated this responsiblity to the SGA a few
years ago.

The board also decided to assign an

advisor chosen from the faculty or staff to ‘|.

each student media organization. This
advisor would help ‘‘train editors in leader-
ship and management techniques,’’ says
Stockdale.

Each media organization will decide
what it wants in an advisor and nominate
some possible candidates, according to
Stockdale. The board will then choose the
advisor. ,

“*The administration has a long-standing
record of a hands-off policy with student
publications,’’ says Stockdale. ‘“Thisis just
a way of lending a helping hand.”’

By MARGARET CARROLL

Last Thursday, the Davidson ROTC
Scabbard and Blade honor/service soci-
ety held its bi-annual blood drive. Jun-
ior Cackie Walters was appointed to be
in charge of the drive and said that she
was ‘‘pleased with the turnout.”’

The Greater Carolinas American Red
Cross Blood Services came to
Davidson to aid with the drive. Almost
all of the ROTC cadets participated in
the blood drive, either working with
registration or blood bags, or helping in
the donation room. EMTs from the
Davidson Emergency Rescue Service
helped by measuring blood pressure.

Usually there is a big rush at around
1:30, said Walters, but this time the
._ crowd was fairly consistent throughout

the day. A total of 149 pints of blood
were donated, although other people
tried to give and were unable due to
sickness, medication or low iron levels.
Walters hopes these people will try
again in April at the next blood drive.

Sophomore Jenny McDonald re-
marked that giving blood is necessary
when one considers the fact that some-

ROTC succeeds yet again
in student blood-letting

thing could happen to a family member
or close friend, and one should ‘‘hope
that someone cared enough to give
blood for them.’’ McDonald encour-
aged those who are afraid to give to ‘‘try
it”

Another sophomore, John Nix,
waxed eloquent about the blood drive’s
refreshments he received after donating
his blood.

Sophomore Rob Lim donated blood
early Thursday morning. Lim’s blood,
type B+, was sent directly to Duke for a
two-month old baby who was in need of
surgery and who had to have type B+
blood. Lim said, ‘‘It really made me feel
good to know that I was actually doing
something to help someone. else. It
made me want to donate another pint
immediately.’’

Although she was pleased with 149
donations, Walters feels.that the num-
ber is low. considering. the number of
healthy students at Davidson. For some
reason, many people do not give. They
do not realize the importance of giving
blood, she said. ‘‘One pint can save a

to repay.

Stare making credit pur-
chases IMMEDIATELY! We i

Bwaii send you a Members

Credit Card at once withf

catalog." Take 12 months§f
Your personals
credit card is a
I.D.- valuable for check
cashing, etc.
Aotoents Credit . Group |
A-1 reference will be on: if
file to help you obtain q ||
other credit cards. 1]
gcend in your $5 catalog 1]
deposit now. (refundable
Jvith your first order)
g Denies res ome teeny
100% Satistaction Gueranteed

Not all and univer
rr OALAT fii | sic ee Se
ry INSTANT CREDIT! | ror ad cheat

-second
5

plus yourf

Ask about the
i ee

Thi have bak axed Naor pibamenat alee ae be

WANT TO TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF
AIR FORCE ROTC?

progam. eu maybe

So |

- te | 1]

Jobs in Australia

Immediate Opening for Men and Women.
ie $11,000 to $60,000.
Construction, Manufacturing, Secretarial

 Soxeuphonas clones | work, Nurses, Engineering, Sales.
ir ap eon cps ch Beas om || Hundreds of Jobs Listed.
: ss He » : i‘ ‘CALL NOW! 206-736-7000.
MSNOURS: 4304140 EVERYDAY : MEMBERS _°9.sox4css © I Ext. 616A
P stugents _ nononsi
