The Davidsonian

Friday, March 11, 1988

Around the Horn

The boys of summer and past glories won and fled

By HAP BRYANT

“I see the boys of summer in their ruin
Lay the gold tithings barren,
Setting no store by harvest, freeze the
Soils.”

--Dylan Thomas

Spring has leapt upon the northern hemi-
sphere. Life has returned, as evidenced by
the sights, sounds, and smells. Spring may
not be here to stay, but the trademarks of
that glorious quarter have already been
dropped upon those willing to accept.

To many, spring means baseball and
spring training. But spring brings the reali-
zation thatall glories, much like those of the
season, are only fleeting. In the classic The
Boys of Summer, Roger Kahn explores this
theme by examining the glory boys of his
early career, the Brooklyn Dodgers of the
1950s.

In 1951, Kahn began to cover the Dodg-
ers for the New York Herald Tribune. Kahn
had been a life-long fan, but only after he
had slaved as a copyboy to the newspaper
for three -years would they allow him to
cover the majors.

However, The Boys of Summer is neither
about Kahn nor the glories of winning the
pennant. It is about life--the struggles that
come every day to different people.

While Kahn recounts his travels with the
Dodgers, he exposes many of the problems
of society. In the 1950s, the Dodgers in-
cluded men like Jackie Robinson, Joe
Black, and Roy Campanella.

These men suffered disgrace after dis-
grace as black men in a society based on
white supremacy. Each of them faced ra-
cism in a different way, but the outcome of
their struggles was the same--they helped
open the major leagues to blacks.

Women’s Tennis

Lady Cats

Others had remarkably different back-.

grounds and personalities--Preacher Roe
from Arkansas, Carl Erskine from Ohio,
Billy Cox from Pennsylvania. The great-
ness of the Dodgers was that men black and
white, from the South, North, Midwest,
could come together as a team, both on and
off the field.

Pennants came in 1952 and 1953 and the
coveted World Series victory over the
Yankees in 1955. Surely, fame had arrived.
But the glories of fame, like spring, had to
end.

Ten years later, the Dodgers had moved
to Los Angeles: Ebbets Field was demol-
ished, giving way to apartment complexes
on the corner of Bedford and Flatbush.
Roger Kahn set out to find the old Dodgers,
observe their lives, and rehash old stories.
With this effort, Kahn tells the stories of
dreams attained and lost, and of lives lived
with perseverance.

Between 1968 and 1971, Kahn found
Preacher Roe tending a grocery store in
Missouri, Clem Labine managing a sports
clothing warehouse in Connecticut, Carl
Erskine caring for his mongoloid son in
Ohio; Billy Cox tending bar in Flatbush;
Duke Snider living on aranch in California;
Joe Black holding the vice-presidency of a
large company in Chicago; Roy Campan-
ella, paralyzed, running a Harlem liquor
store. -

So there is life after baseball. But life in
the real world is not like the glorious life of
sports. Although they faced real problems
at home and in the workplace, the boys of
summer profited from their baseball expe-
riences, gaining qualities to use throughout
their lives.

Roy Campanella lost the use of his arms
and legs, but the drive that sent him behind
the plate for 152 games a year helped him

Set

sights on title

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson women’s tennis team
opens the 1988 season with high hopes
—|— of capturing the Southern Conference
title. Last year, in its first year of
conference action, the team captured
second place at the conference
tournmanent.

With defending champion Furman
losing their number one player and
Davidson adding freshman Mary Beth
Ruth, Coach Caroline Brown thinks the
Lady Cats can win the championship at
the end of April. If the women’s tennis
team achieved this lofty goal, it would
be Davidson’s first women’s confer-
ence title in any sport and a fitting
farewell to the Southern Conference.

The keys for the season will be con-
tinued strong singles play from the top
ix players.as-wellas.improved-doubles—probably—the—four—toughest—on—the

play. Captains Amy McNelis and Jane
Price will lead the team from the one
and four spots, respectively.

Joining McNelis and Price will be
Ruth at number two singles and sopho-
more Virginia Hall at number three.
Senior Laura Ross, junior Alice Stubbs,
and sophomore Melissa Carr will fight
for. the final two starting spots.

’ In doubles, Brown feels that contin-

ued improvement is necessary for the
Lady Cats to challenge Furman and
UTC for the title. The doubles line-up
consists of McNelis and Hall at number
one, Price and Ruth at number two, and
junior Angela Rudert and Stubbs in the
third slot.

However, there is a good chance that
this line-up will change when junior
Marion Stone returns from Kenya in
mid-March. Stone played number two
singles last year,'but the emergence of
Ruth and Stone’s lack of practice time
in Kenya could move her down and
strengthen an already tough order.

‘So far this year the Cats have a de-
ceiving 2-4 record. The four losses
have come to perennial tennis powers
Duke, Penn State, Richmond, and
College of Charleston. These teams are

schedule. The.team has victories overs
Ball State (Indiana) and Umasis (Penn-
sylvania).

With home matches Thursday versus
Haverford, Saturday versus Bryn
Mawr, and Sunday versus James Madi-
son, the women’s tennis team should
improve its record and begin its run at
the conference championship.

survive and function in society. Carl Er-
skine hada mongoloid son, but the determi-
nation that sent him to the mound with the
game on the line aided him in his quest to
gain a normal life for his son.

So, in that sense, The Boys of Summer is
optimistic. Although the past and its glories
are gone, the experiences teach characteris-
tics that benefit later life.

However, the work is also pessimistic.
The old Dodgers cannotreattain their fame,
nor their physical powers, after time has

Basketball

cruelly snatched those powers from their
grasp. In the epilogue, Kahn recounts the
deaths of two of the Boys of Summer, Gil
Hodges at 47, Jackie Robinson at 52.
Consequently, The Boys of Summer ends
with the sad notes of greatness lost, of past
glories won and fled, of lives lived and died.
But let’s remember this spring that without
the experience of Hodges, Robinson,
‘Campanella, and Kahn, the world would be
a little less innocent, a little less pure, and
a lot less talented.

Wildcats end season,
S.C. membership in first
round of tournament

By PHILLIP PRESCOTT

An 83-69 loss to UT-Chattanooga in
the first round of the Southern Confer-
ence marked the final game of the season,
last game for seniors Derek Rucker and
Jeff Himes, and the end of Davidson’s
participation in the Southern Confer-
ence.

Rucker and Himes were at less than
full strength, Rucker ailing with a sinus
infection, .and Himes lacking stamina
after recovering from a flu virus.
Davidson dug itself into a big hole early,
behind 19-7 after the first eight minutes.
Victimized by poor shooting Davidson
was on the lower end of a 38-23 score at
halftime.

For a short while it appeared the Wild-
cats might go down without a fight, but
from 13:24 to9:22 in the game Davidson

went on a 17-4 run making the score 56-
54. Alan Hunter sparked the comeback
with three baskets, including two three
pointers. The comeback took a lot out of
the Wildcats, and after Chattanooga
responded with 5 straight to make the
score 61-54, Davidson never mounted a
threat.

Chattanooga had a balanced scoring
attack with Lance Fulse scoring 21
points, Darren Chandler 18, Morris
Lyons 17, and Benny Green 16 points.
Chandler’s 13 rebounds helped the
Moccasins’ effort. For Davidson,
Rucker had 22 points, including 3 three-
pointers, and Hunter chipped in 12
points. Himes, hurt by foul troubles as
well as his illness, played only 28 min-
utes, and was limited to 9 points and 5
rebounds.

Golfers sharpen skills

over spring break

Team plays at Augusta National

By DAVID SCOTT

Sharpen your spikes and whip out those
sticks. The sun is riding higher, the grass is
greener, and the trees are still dead. It’s
spring térm in Davidson, and the drudgery
of winter is swept away in a tidal wave of
enthusiasm. ,

Yes, the golf team is on the move. Forsak-
ing the fleeting satisfaction of the sandy
beaches or powder-covered slopes, these
monsters of the fairway spent the week in
preparation for the challenging season
ahead.

The drama began the Thursday following
exams. In a fortunate swing of fate, the
Davidson golfers were able to pop a few

O'Neill, sophomore Gates Grainger, and
freshman Mike Maggart, performed admi-
rably in a losing effort that served mostly as
a practice session for the bigger matches
later in the season.

The first tournament action of the season
began on Monday, Feb. 29. The team fin-
ished solidly in the middle of the pack of a
strong field of approximately 20 teams.
Captain Gates Grainger was low man on the
team shooting, in the three day competi-
tion, very solid scores of 76, 75 and 78.

The team is performing well considering
limited practice time this winter and is
anticipating'strong finishes at Elon College
in Burlington, NC on the 21st and 22nd of

divots on—the-same—turf-as—some -gelf’s—this month andtateratthe tron DukeClassic—

greatest legends at the world famous Au-
gusta National Golf Club, the home of the
Masters. This was, as junior Craig Carlock

_ Stated, the highlight of the trip, for few are

ever able to play this prestigious course.
The first competition of the year took place
the following Friday against Winthrop

College. The entire team, comprised of .

juniors Carlock, Scott Prince, and Sean

March 25-27.

The team is young and the competition is
tough, but barring any cart accidents or
injuries from low flying drives, this should
be a successful year. Through it all, the
sometimes meager fan support included,
they forge onward, balls in hand and clubs
at ready, determined to make it big.
