Thursday, October 20, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson: National issues

By ED POWELL

Medicine

On Tuesday, two North Carolina medi-
cal researchers were named the recipients.
of this year’s Nobel Prize for Medicine.
Gertrude Elion and George Hitchings were
awarded the prestigious honor for their
work in the field of medical research. Their
work led to the discovery of drugs helpful
in the treatment of leukemia, gout, malaria,
herpes virus infections, and organ trans-
plant rejection. Both are long term employ-
ees of the Burroughs Wellcome Co., a
medical research lab in the Research Tri-
angle Park near Raleigh.

Business é

Earlier this week, the Phillip Morris
Companies made a $11.5 billion bid to take
over Kraft, Inc. The offer, made in cash,

would pay Kraft roughly $90 per share, $30
over its present-value. This offer marks one
of the biggest takeover ventures in history,
second only to Gulf Oil’s purchase of
Chevron four years ago. If they are success-
ful, Phillip Morris will become the world’s
largest consumer producer.

Elections

In the wake of last weeks Presidential
débate, Democratic nominee Michael
Dukakis may be on the last legs of his
attempt to regain the White House from the
Republicans. While both sides are claim-
ing victory in this debate, it appears that
Bush was the big winner as he has widened
his lead even further over Dukakis in the
polls.

Dukakis has been behind Bush ever since
the Republican convention and with the

debates over and election day less than
three weeks away, he will have to make up
a lot of ground fast if he hopes to catch
Bush.

Coming into the debate held at UCLA’s
Pauley Pavilion, Bush had everything to
lose and Dukakis everything to gain. The
Dukakis camp had hoped that Bush might
make some real mistakes in the course of
the debate, allowing Dukakis back into the
race, but this did not happen. °

Neither candidate particularly shined
over the course of the ninety minutes of the
debate, which was again marked by both
candidates’ evasion of the moderator’s
questions. Bush again defended his choice
of Dan Quayle as his running mate and
criticized the media for their treatment of
the Indiana Senator.

It was revealed earlier this week that the

Dukakis campaign is pulling out of the
south and concentrating all of their final
efforts in just 18 states. These states, pri-
marily West Coast and Northeastern, are
big electoral college states and a gain there
might mean more than narrowing the races
in the south.

Locally, it appears that G.O.P. candidate
Jim Gardner may havea shotat winning the °
North Carolina Lieutenant Governorship.
If he were to steal this race away from his
Democratic opponent ‘Tony Rand, he
would be the first Republican lieutenant
governor in 80 years.-A recent Charlotte
Observer Poll had him leading Rand by a
47 to 34 percent margin. Nonetheless, the
eventual winner is certain to preside over a
decidedly Democratic Senate next year in
Raleigh.

Beyond Davidson: International issues

Serbians in 2 Yugoslavian prov-

By BETH DRUMMOND continued U.S. use of two mili- ganizations swept through to that promoted by Soviet Pre-
and CAROL GATEWOOD tary bases in the strategically Czechoslovakia last week. mier Mikhail Gorbachev.

Rome “ important island nation. In ex- Lubomir Strougal, Premier of the Strougal’s proposals, however,

On Monday a Ugandan Airlines change, the U.S. will provide the Czech Socialist Republic, and were significantly diluted by a

Boeing 707 crashed on the run-

way at Leonardo da Vinci airport,

killing 31 of 52 passengers. The
pilot attempted to land the plane
three times in a thick fog. The fog
and misunderstandings between
the pilot and the air control tower
were possible factors in the acci-
dent, according to investigators.
Abyei, Sudan

Civil war between the Suda-
nese government and the South-
ern People’s: Liberation Army
continues to prolong starvation in
Sudan. Since the beginning of this
year 10,000 inhabitants of the city
of Abyei have starved, most of
them Dinka refugees from the
war. Relief has arrived from
UNICEF and the U.S. Agency for
International Development. The
U.N. will call for a $50 million

Philippines with $962 million in
aid in 1990 and 1991. Anincrease
of $258 million beyond previous
levels of involvement, the new

Peter Colka, Premier of Slovakia,
handed in formal resignations
from office and gave up their seats
on the country’s 12 member rul-

treaty commits the U.S. to both — ing Politburo.
economic and military assistance. The resignations follow a scan-
Washington sources say the dal uncovered last year in which

agreement could foreshadow an
extension of U.S. military pres-
-ence in the Philippines beyond
1991, but the terms will have to be
negotiated, probably some time
next year. :
Changes Rock Eastern Europe
- Government _ reorganizations
and widespread social unrest have
erupted in most of the major East-
ern European nations following
Gorbachev’s sweeping party
changes in the Soviet Union.
Political and social tension has
escalated in Poland, Hungary and

both men were named as partici-
pants in a far-reaching govern-
ment corruption scheme. Strou-
gal was considered a strong advo-
cate of economic reform similar

Party leadership that has been
reluctant to follow the Soviet
lead. Communist Party Chief
Milos Jakes refused to comment
un possible sugcessors for the
leadership-ef the two national re-
publics.”
Yugoslavia

Protests in Yugoslavia have
highlighted the many political
changes that have recently oc-

curred in Eastern Bloc countries.

inces are demanding that they be
made part of Serbia.

- Widespread demonstrations
have brought about the resigna-

.tion of several Communist Party

leaders. Analysts suspect that
Slobodan Milosevic, the power-
ful Serbian party leader, will try to
fill the political void caused by
the death of Tito 8 years ago.
Current Yugoslavian leaders have
been unsuccessful in solving the
country’s severe economic prob-
lems which lie at the heart of the
recent political unrest.

donation to aid the refugees. Romania. Czechoslovakia and
The Philippines Yugoslavia have received the
Secretary of State George most press attention.
Shultz and Philippine Foreign Czechoslovakia
Minister Raul Manglapus signed Government shake-ups similar
an agreement on Monday for tothe recent Soviet political reor-
; If you're looking pied for
‘ a good-paying job, m
: PART TUE it easy on yourself. Con-
tact your local Domino's
JOB; J Pizza store, and cash in
on your driving skills.
FULL-TIME op ie
make some of the best
in the business,

PAY.

Earn Up To $9 An Hour
_ With Domino’s Pizza®

up to $9.00 an hour!
Call 664-7300

DOMINO'S
PIZZA

y DAVIDSON

AUTOGRAPH PARTY

Mary Beaty, Assistant Director of
the Davidson College Library, will
sign copies of her new book, A
History of Davidson. College on
Friday Oct. 28, 4-6 pm. |

Reserve Your Copies Now!
892-6841

