Friday, April 29, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

3

Sailors found; Ollie North linked to drug ring; French pres. elections begin

By MUADI MUKENGE
Headlining the news, April 21-27
Across the Nation: Three sailors who had been reported
missing from last Sunday’s explosion aboard the subma-
rine USS Bonefish were found dead Wednesday by Navy
rescue teams. The accident occured 160 miles east of Port
Canaveral, Fla. Twenty-two sailors were injured, 19 of
whom were discharged from a Navy hospital Tuesday. The
exact cause of the explosion is still undetermined, but
officials believe-that the diesel/electric sub had a hydrogen
gas buildup which ignited as batteries in the electric motors
were being recharged. The boarding of the disabled subma-
rine had been delayed to allow for the diffusion of toxic
fumes. The USS Bonefish was conducting a routine train-
ing mission when the explosion occured.

Massachusetts Governor Michael Dukakis now leads the
Democratic presidential candidates in total number of
delegates won --1087.85-- as a result of Tuesday’s Demo-
cratic primary in Pennsylvania. The contest rewarded
Dukakis with 66 percent of the vote while Jackson had 29

In the months’ contests to come, the candidate who re-
ceivesa total of 2081 will be the party’s choice as presiden-
tial nominee. Primaries still to be conducted will take place
in Ohio, the District of Columbia, Califomia, New Jersey
and Indiana. As of now there are 620.65 uncommitted
delegate votes, which added to Gore’s 405.55 delegate
votes will help either Dukakis or Jackson reach a major
lead. Meanwhile Vice-President George Bush has the 1139
delegate votes needed to receive nomination from the
Republican party.

The private diaries of Lt. Col. Oliver North will be
examined as a result of a vote by the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee to subpoena those records. North was
fired from the National Security Council in November
1986 when he became implicated in the Iran-contra affair.
The diaries are believed to have information about an

international drug smuggling operation which transported

drugs on the return flights of the weapon deliveries to the
Nicaraguan rebels. The diary--many sections of which are
blemished--was kept from September 1984 to November

ment Agency as well as to CIA agents.

Around the World: Socialist President Francois Mitter-
and will face Prime Minister Jacques Chirac in a runoff
May 8 of the French national presidential elections. Chirac,
amember of the Rally for Republic Party, needs the support
of other parties on the Right to gain a majority over the 71-
year-old Mitterand. None of the candidates of the Right
received a majority in Sunday’s first round election. Chirac
received 19.5 percent, forraer P.M. Raymond Barre re-
ceived 16.5, Jean-Marie Le Pen had 14.4. Mitterand won
34.1 percent of the popular vote.

Saudi Arabia terminated diplomatic relations with Iran
Tuesday, citing “terrorism and subversion” as reasons for
the move. The Saudi government is charging Iran with the
killing of pilgrims headed for Mecca last year and attacks
on the Saudi Embassy and well as on shipping activities on
the Persian Gulf. The Saudi council of ministers has
ordered Iranian diplomats to leave the country within a

percent. Jackson is in second place with 780.45 delegates.

1986 and include several references to the Drug Enforce-

week. Saudi Arabia is an ally of Iraq, with which Iran has
been at war for eight years.

Charlotte Mayor Myrick speaks at Open Luncheon

By LISA JACKSON

Sue Myrick, who defeated
popular opponent Harvey Gant
last fall to become Charlotte’s
first female mayor, spoke at
Davidson’s Open Luncheon in the
900 Room on Wednesday. She
addressed several key city issues
such as transportation, housing,
and shelter for the homeless be-
fore answering questions from the
audience.

“We are becoming a city
whether we like it or not,” said
Myrick. “Now we just havetodeal
with it.” Butif the issues just have
to be “dealt with” as Myrick puts
it, then all Charlotte’s problems
should be solved by the time she
leaves office. She has a lot of
ideas, but it remains to be seen
whether or not she can and will
carry through.

The luncheon was opened by
Andy Nilsson of the Davidson
College Republicans who com-
mented that the-mayor is a “good
Republican.”

Myrick first addressed an issue

familiar to everyone who has trav-
eled in or around Charlotte- trans-
portation. “We’re planning abond
referendum to assist with highway-
construction,” she explained. The
referendum will basically accel-
erate the construction schedule 10
to 5 years.

Future changes in Charlotte’s
road system will include: widen-
ing and extending many major
arteries, creating more one way
streets, making left hand turning
easier and adding a third lane for
turning. .

Finding a way to deal with the
homeless is another of Myrick’s
major concerns. “Wehave founda
site for the housing shelter,” she
announced. “I have only one
opponent to the site; and fortu-
nately, he’s a republican.”

Myrick visited San Diego re-
cently and was impressed with the
way they run their housing center.
The homeless do not just stay
without responsibility. They go
through a program that suppos-
edly rehabilitates 60% of them

and gets them off the streets.
Myrick hopes to bring the same
type operation to Charlotte. She
emphasizes, “It’s not just going to
be bed and board.”
Then the mayor tured ‘to the

“ audience’s questions. Asked if the

city will give any more support to
the Ramesses exhibit coming to
the Mint Museum in the fall,
Myrick asserted a definite NO.
The museum has already received
the city’s allotment. “If the city
gives any more money, the mu-
seum will have to repay it,” she
said.

The question of whether a rail
system is feasible in our lifetime
brought nods of approval from the
audience. Myrick says the idea
has been proposed and she thinks
the area is ideal.

According to her, a rail system
would be attractive to the white
collar community which chooses
not to ride the present bus system.
Ultimately, this would be a big
boost for the transportation prob-
lem.

Will Davidson be included in.

the rail system? “Yes,” claims
Myrick. “We realize we have a
large number of commuters in
towns like Davidson, Concord
and Huntersville. And we know
the transportation problem will
not disappear if we don’t include
the surrounding areas as well.”

Myrickconcedes that Southeast
Charlotte is not one of those prob-
lems that can just be taken care of.
She says that real estate agents
have been pushing it as “the piace
live” for many years.

Now, however, the area is over-
flowing. Students are packing
schools on this side of town while
the other side has many spaces left
unfilled. “And how can you jus-
tify building another school in
Southeast Charlotte when you
have some sitting nearly empty?”
asks Myrick. It’s just not an easy
problem because as she adds,
“People are going to live where
they want to.”

Myrick wants to push the city to
work more with the neighboring

counties and other metropolitan
areas in North Carolina instead of
just being the “great state of
Mecklenburg” as many have
viewed Charlotte in the past.
“Together we can move things,”
she suggests.

When asked what she did in her
free time, Myrick winced. “What
free time?” She says being mayor
has become somewhat of a prob-
lem because she is technically
working two jobs. She divides her
time between the her job and the
mayor’s.

Charlotte’s mayor should be
commended fOr facing the future
instead of just dealing with the
present problems. The area is
growing at record speed and na-
tional attention will be focused on
how Charlotte handles this
growth.

“We have to work on the prob-
lem before it hits,” says Myrick.
“That’s why we need to build this
rail system so we’ ll be ready for it,
because it’s going to happen.”

Davidson ROTC excels at Ranger Challenge despite setbacks

By MARGARET CARROLL
On Saturday, April 23 Davidson took an
ROTC team to Appalachian State Univer-
sity to participate in the spring ROTC

Wait List Blues

Ranger Challenge weekend. Davidson's
team of eight people and one alternate
finished third in the competition. Events
included physical fitness test, arope bridge

Housing lottery completed

By TOBY TRUOG

According to Tom Jennings, Director of
Residence Life, this year’s housing lottery
went exactly as planned. The new senior
apartments reduced the number of students
who would have to find off-campus hous-
ing. Although some students are on the
waiting list these people will most likely be
housed. There are 15 womenand 12 men on
the waiting list this year. This number is
half the number of students who were wait-
listed last year. There are people who
participated in the lottery, but who are
planning to find rooms off campus.

“These wait-listed people will be accom-
modated. We expected this many people to
be wait-listed,” says Tom Jennings.

Twenty-three women and five men
signed up for rooms available in the spring.
Although more students than this are going

abroad fall semester, not all of them are
opting to be wait listed.

Mr. Jennings said, “We will be working
with those students who sign up to get
rooms in the spring in order to put them with
compatible roommates.” ,

An early lottery was held for the new
apartments.

The new senior apartments absorbed
most of the people who lived in the perime-
ter houses. The distribution of males to
females in the apartments is 60% to 40%
respectively, with 21 men and 15 women.

As was expected, the first dorm to fill
after the apartments was Duke dorm. This
was followed by Watts. Sentelle, Belk,
Cannon and Little dorms then filled and the
rest of the students registered for “Sopho-
more Year Abroad” dorms Akers, Irwin and
Knox.

competition, marksmanship, a grenade
throw, weapons assembly, and a 10kilome-
ter road march.

Team members were: junior and captain
of the team John Black and freshmen Stuart
Baker, Cecily Craighill, Mark Harris, Bob
Hornsby, Rob Lim, Mike Peters, David
Taylor and Derrick Willard. They left at
4:30 am on Saturday and returned on Satur-
day night.

The competition at Appalachian was a
“head to head” competition, meaning that

-Appalachian invited the other schools to
participate. The Ranger Challenge compe-
tition is fairly new and is considered “var-
sity ROTC.” Thus the Davidson team
competed against schools like Wake Forest
who have over 200 cadets in their program

and who pick their eight best to compete.

The Davidson team suffered the most
setbacks in the road march, in which each
person had tocarry a40 pound pack, and the
team had to finish as a group. One person
was injured during the march but kept run-
ning, and the team members divided his
gear and shared the load. Then another
person’s pack broke, and the team had to
redistribute the gear and pull together once
again.

According to Black, the team gained alot
of experience from the Ranger Challenge
competition and is “psyched” to go to the
regional brigade competition next fall.

The team’s time bettered Davidson’s last
effort in the fall by 45 minutes and only
finished nine minutes behind the winner.

Coming up next week in
Inside Art:

Social Realism. Glorify the
working classes! Submit!

