Commentaries

The Davidsonian
Friday, October 7, 1988

Just what did the debate mean?

Alan. Thornburg

What did the Bentsen-Quayle debate mean to the Ameri-
can people? Most media sources say that most folks vote
for the top of the ticket. That’s probably true, but don’t we
care to know about the man who has a real chance of
becoming our Commander in Chief by default? What did
our citizens people learn about J. Danforth Quayle in
Wednesday night’s contest? .

First, Senator Quayle certainly had the most to gain. We
had all been Jed to expect a stumbling, whining young man
that was to remind us of a boy just dragged from the
classroom and asked to run a board meeting. Well, Quayle
didn’t.do that poorly, but he did show us that you can’t
make a nationally credible candidate in a few weeks even
if you are Lee Atwater. The Senator had a few problems,
such as his nervousness showing, making his subjects and
verbs agree, and changing his thought in midsentence. But

none of this came as a surprise; it probably just filled us
with anticipation about the answer we hoped was just
about to emerge. We heard few answers, however. Instead,
we saw an over-scripted puppet. When asked what he
would do if he found himself in the Oval Office, Quayle
said he would pray and then get to know his cabinet. That’s
OK for a first attempt, but you have to wonder what kind
of independent thinking is going on when the fellow can’t

‘put together something a little more creative the next three

times the question is asked. That question is broad enough
to allow an opportunity to say just about anything; a perfect
lead-in to talk about those pleaseant-sounding programs of
which every candidate has a host. “Yea, but I only have one
answer written here for that question.” What about that
combative spirit we’ ve heard about on the Sénate floor? He
really hit hard when he blasted the Carter grain embargo
and called “tax-hike Mike” the biggest liberal since
McGovern. “We must save the country from those weak
left-wingers. We must have tough laws and judges, values

Dan Quayle: The Politics of Profit

Daniel Grau

George Bush had his fingers crossed Wednesday night.
Bush, and many political analysts, thought that if Dan
Quayle could simply avoid making the kind of blunders
which litter his campaign trail, then he would win the
debate and instill confidence in his abilities and in his in-
tellect. And despite dozens of minor mistakes, mispronun-
ciations, errors in logic, and the retarded pace of his
thought, Quayle may have managed to avoid any blunder
dramatic enough to raise questions in the minds of voters.
For some, however, Quayle’s performance was more dis-
turbing than reassuring.

Consider Quayle’s conception of the poor. Tom Brokaw
reminded us of the sixty-five million children belonging to
families who live in poverty, and he asked Quayle “to
describe to the audience the last time you may have visited
with one of these families personally and how you explain
to that family your votes against the school breakfast
program, the school lunch program, and the expansion of
the child immunization program.” That is a loaded ques-
tion, but if it tells us something about the anchorman’s
politics, the answer tells us something about the politi-
cian’s attitudes. Perhaps it was just distasteful meter when

Quayle responded: “I have met with those. .
.people.”

But the fact that Quayle regards the poor as sub-human, or
at least sub-Quayle, can be seen a little further in his
answer. The hungry people at the food bank in Fort Wayne,
Indiana, “didn’t ask me those questions about those votes,”
Quayle said. Why? “Because they were glad that I took

[pause]. .

time out of my schedule to go down and talk about how -

we’re going to get a food bank and making sure that a food
bank goes in Fort Wayne, Indiana.”

Itis doubtful that hungry people skipped over the ques-
tion of their next meal to thank the Senator for pencilling
them into his busy schedule. But itis possible. James Joyce
opens his story, “After the Race,” by describing the effect
of expensive cars racing near Dublin: “. . .sightseers had
gathered in clumps to watch the cars careering homeward
and through this channel of poverty and, inaction the
Continent sped its wealth and industry. Now and again the
clumps of people raised the cheer of the gratefully op-
pressed.” In Quayle’s world, the poor people of Fort
Wayne are also gratefully oppressed. —

_More importantly, the poor people of Fort Wayne lack
Quayle’ s connections: Some think that the press has been
unfairly hard on Quayle about his connections. When it
was revealed that the National Guard admitted Quayle due

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries from its
readers. The editors will ‘attempt to print all opinions that
adhere to the following guidelines:
'e All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.
¢ Submissions must be neatly ‘iia or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5,25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them).
e All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.
e All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.
¢ All submissions must be signed .Writers must present. the

Opinions Policy. _...

‘e All submissions should include the author's address and

33! suisse oe
editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish their names
printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent.a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author’s home
city and state, ne class, and major field of study (or
profession).

The Magic of the Open. Luncheon

Jay Barron

So, what we’re talking about here isa little bit of magic...
Shaw’s magic words, (and his magic flower)...people
magically appearing every Wednesday at 12:30 IN SPITE
OF our publicity, or lack thereof... and a nutty, zany, and

_ sometimes even inspiring feeling of magic when some-
thing really clicks and somehow a roomful of very differ-
entpeople are sucked in by a speaker, and for a half an hour
we're all taking the time to think about someone ELSE’S
experiences for a change, something we almost assuredly
hadn’t thought much about before.

‘So, for example, what I’m talking about is a teacher from
the Soviet Union and a student from the Soviet Union;

Davidson folks who travelled to Central America; students
who worked in southern Africa: international students
talking about being slapped in the face by America and

“how nice everybody here is”; a doctor who worked in.

Korea.

The mayor of Charlotte, a peace marcher, a few Christ:
mas stories, a children’s lawyer, a conservationist. We’re
talking about scrounging up a little more diversity than you
may find in the Davidson day-to-day. We’re talking about
“doing lunch”!

So, this Wednesday you may have aclass at 12:00, and

maybe even another one at one, in which case you’re slam —

out of luck. Maybe you don’t, BUT you DO have a paper

and a review and a paper and a seminar and a paper... so

taking time out would be really inconvenient. Schucks.
But maybe you’ re intrigued, ever so slightly... $1.50 for
asandwich, asalad, aDannon, & a bever-age sounds about

and the flag.” He didn’t stumble on these points, as they
were on his script. We can’t indict the man for having
rehearsed answers. The candidates should be well pre-
pared. But, when Quayle four times sites the only major
piece of legislation he has authored (the Job Training
Partnership Act), one must ask, “Is this the only thing Dan
Quayle wants us to know about his record, and is this one
bill enough to recommend him for the position of second
in command?” If there is more to Mr. Quayle, why isn’t he
sharp enough to stop reciting his prepared statements and
tell-us who he really is?

TheAmerican people were told that they would see the
man as he really is. If that’s what we saw, the man who had
the most to lose lost it. Many of us do care who will be the
next Vice President. If you care, doesn’t the prospect that
Mr. Quayle might fill this seat give you reason for con-
cem? !
Alan Thornburg is a senior History major from
Raleigh,NC

to his father’s intervention, and when it was revealed that
the National Guard assigned him to a desk job, despite his
training as a welder, Republicans dismissed the charges.
Republicans admit that Quayle benefitted from his fam-

ily’s wealth and power, byt these were isolated incidents.
They insist that Quayle does not subscribe to the politics of
privilege.

The debate told another story, however. For instance,
why is Quayle qualified? Because he has connections.
“I’ve met with the Western political leaders. Margaret
Thatcher, Chancellor Kohl. I know them. They know me.”
Perhaps Quayle envisions N.A.T.O. as a kind of country
club--elevated, elite, hostto all the right people. Simiiariy,
why can we counton him should the President be incapaci-
tated? Because he will have had lunch with the Cabinet:
“And I will know them on a first hand basis. Because as
Vice-President I’ll sit on the National Security Council.
AndI’1l know them ona first hand basis because I’m gonna
be coordinating the drug effort. I’ll know ‘em on a first
hand basis because George Bush is going to recreate the
Space Council and I’ll be in charge of that.”

The repetition of “know them on a first hand basis”
betrays the habit of Quayle’s thinking. Privilege does not
merely characterize Quayle’s youth: it deeply informs his

picture of the world and how to behave in it. In his

statement of qualifications, as well as in his conjecture
about Presidential succession, Quayle’s mind repeatedly
returns to the question of contact, of connection, and of

“} power through social circlesrather than through individual —

virtue. Quayle constitutes living proof of that cynical
adage, “its not what you know, but who you know.” And
what Dan Quayle is assuring us is that he either knows now,
or he will know, the right people.

It was quintessential Quayle when, asked what experi-
ence most shapes his political philosophy, the candidate
recalled the “Midwestern advice from a grandmother to a
grandson”: “You can be anything you want if you just set
your mind to it and go to work.” And Quayle will pass this
advice along to his children, although with a slight twist:
“You can be anything you want if you just set your mind to
it and go pull strings.”

Daniel Grau is a senior English major from Spartanburg,
BiG.

fair,(even though we don’t have us one o’ them fancy-
schmantzy electro-gizmos for yer lunch ‘card...). So,
maybe you'll come up to the 900 room for lunch at 12:30,
or even bring your own and listen to the speaker at 1:00,
and take a chance on getting hooked on the Open Lunch-
eon.

This week our own Caroline Craig will talk about
service opportunities here in Davidson. Next week we’ll
move on to Mr. Stan Khan, education in black South
Africa. On November 2, Ortmayer/Haskell/Kazee Bush/
Dukakis/Bentsen/Quayle, and so on. You'll be getting a .

~ schedule under your door.

So, make some time for the Open Funchoose Open”, iy
the way, means OPEN to and for everyone...) and please
feel free to get hooked.

Jay Barron is a senior Spanish major from Tuscaloosa, AL

