Thursday, October 20, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘sebhenaere Gigs € Coes.

Photo sievtely of Sports Information

and Radford College.

Field Hockey

Wildcats beat Salem 4-0

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

_ Davidson’s field hockey team defeated Salem
College 4-0 last Tuesday to up its record to 4-7-1.
Scoring for the Cats were sophomore Gigi Cooke,
senior Suzanne Mauze, sophomore Marjorie
Havighurst and freshman Margaret Carr.

Last weekend, October 8-10, Davidson tray-
elled to Virginia to play three teams: Roanoke
College, Randolph-Macon Women’s College,

The Wildcats downed Randolph-Macon 1-0,
but fell to Roanoke and Radford by identical 2-0
scores. Cooke got the only Davidson goal.

Coach Betsy Pryor commented on the first
game against Roanoke: “We outplayed them
everywhere except in scoring. We outshot them
22-13 but kept shooting wide of the cage.”

Pryor was-pleased, however, with the hustle
shown by the team and better support at midfield.

The second game against Randolph-Macon

10:30 AM.

was completely dominated by the Davidson of-
fense as the Cats outshot the opposition 27-5.
Cooke’s goal came with about four minutes to
play in the contest.

The final game against Radford was the
toughest match of the weekend. Radford is
accustomed to playing teams which give schol-
arships to most of the players on the team--a
step above Davidson’s Deep South opponents.

“Tt was a one-sided game,” said Pryor, “but -
we did all right considering the pressure (that
they put on us).”

Radford had 31 shots on goal to Davidson’s
four and was awarded ten penalty comers to the
Cats’ two. Also, Alison Chapman recorded 13
goalie saves for the afternoon.

NOTE: Davidson’s next home game js this
Saturday against the University of the South at

Volleyball gets twenty-win season for first time

By CHANDLER SHEPPARD

The Davidson College women’s volley-
ball team defeated Columbia College last
saturday to reach the twenty-game win
mark for the first time in the team’s history.

This is a surprise for coach Rebecca
Hawkins, who, at the beginning of the year,
predicted that the Wildcats would win
about ten games.

Hawkins credits the success of the team
to the improved defense and stronger hit-
ting. En route to the twentieth win, the
Wildcats have put together a twelve game
winning streak and a 7-1 record at home.

Last weekend the Cats put together a

strong effort in the UNC-Asheville Tour- ©

nament in order to beat UNC-Asheville, a
team that defeated Davidson earlier in the
year, 15-7, 15-11.

The Cats lost in the semi-final match to
Georgia State, the eventual tournament
champions.

The team then traveled to Hickory to
take on Lenoir-Rhyne. Davidson won
without difficulty to win game number 17.
~ Davidson next put its undefeated home

Winning twenty games in a season is
quite an accomplishment for the young
Davidson program, considering that this is
only the third year of varsity volleyball at
Davidson.

Key factors in the success of the Wild-
cats are Ellen Ott and Molly Graver.
“Molly and Ellen don’t receive a lot of

record on the line against Catawba College ~

only to come up empty-handed. Catawba
won in the third game of a best of three
game match.

Hawkins was disappointed by the loss.
“We could have won, but our mental mis-
takes hurt us.”

Davidson bounced back handily to de-
feat Belmont Abbey in the second match of
the double header by a score of 15-1, 15-9.
This gave the Cats their 18th win of the
season.

Friday night, the team destroyed Au-
gusta College, which moved them to within
one game of reaching the twenty-win mark.
This came the following night as Davidson
ag Columbia College in Columbia,

credit,” says coach Hawkins, “but. they
play tough volleyball from game to game.”
The consistency of Ott and Graver has
helped to lead the team throughout the
year. Graver’s specialty is the big defen-
sive play, while Ott “is a clutch player,”
always there for the crucial points. .
Tonight the Wildcats will take on UNC-

C in Johnston Gym. This could very well
turn out to be the battle of Mecklenburg
County.

The Wildcats are considered underdogs,
but according to Hawkins, “If we have a
good crowd turnout, and if UNC-C comes
into our gym overconfident, there could be
an upset.”

Senlor Maria Douglas and freshmen Mini Plauche and Hott Hathaway celebrate one of many victorious moments.
Photo courtesy of Sports. Iformation

Player profiles: Freshmen Plauche and Hathaway

By MARY FAITH MOUNT __ been playing together for a little decides the smartest play. She
Two exciting freshmen volley- overamonthnow, butarealready gets to every ball.”
ball players, Mimi Plauche and forming a successful “Freshman —_ Both players began volleyball
Holt Hathaway, have already re- Connection.” They complement — early. Plauche began honing her
ceived Player of the Week awards each other on and off the court. _skills in sixth grade with her
in their first semester at Davidson. Hathaway says of ‘Plauche, mother, her mentor for the next

All coaches of fe varsity
sports at Davidson¢vote ‘on the —
award, and the honoree’s picture -

is posted in the bottom floor of .

Johnston Gym.
___ Plauche and_ Hathaway have

“She’sa very versatile player. She
_¢an hit almost anything you put
up.”

Plauche points out that setters
are supposed to be in control of

the court, and Hathaway is: “She

_ three years. She has always beena
“hitter whether playing for her

high school team in Illinois,
USVBA, or Chicago area club
teams.

Hathaway started ata in

ninth grade. Her Myers Park High

School team in Charlotte reached _

the semi-finals of state competi-
tion last year with Hathaway as
setter/hitter. She also participated
in USVBA tournaments and a
Charlotte league. -

Both players are quick to point
out how well the team gets along
and plays together. With team-
mates slapping one another’s
hands on the court, this team unity

is no secret tothe fans. _.

Both players also agree that
their coach, Rebecca Hawkins,
passes along her positive attitude
to each player on the team. The
team has come together as a sup-
portive, close-knit group. Each

player knows where each other is

during a game. They have given
much of their time and energy to
the game, but neither doubts the

~ decision to play in college.
