Still more Inside Art, pages 6-7 —

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXIX, Number 5

Davidson i Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Monday, April 18, 1988

Davidson works to
integrate its “unique”
International students

Committee helps foreign students face challenges

By SUSAN PEARSALL

Davidson’s thirty-eight international
students are “‘a lot more visible” this
year to the remainder of the student
body, says Assistant Dean of Students
Paula Moore. Moore says the develop-
ment is a result of the concerted efforts
of a strong International Committee and

_a supportive administration.

‘Both the College Union and the Dean
Rusk Program in International Studies
have shown increased interestin helping
to integrate internationals into college
social life as well as in advising them on
difficulties concerning finances, culture
shock, and their plans for the future. The
unique situation of these students ‘has
prompted efforts to plan special social
activities and counseling sessions for
them, and to “make people more aware
of them and more sensitive to their
needs,” says Moore.

“We’re proud of our diverse student
body,” states Laurel Buchmiller, Assis-
tant Dean of Admissions. “If we’re
interested in working towards world
peace and establishing better interna-
tional relations, it’s good to bring inter-
national students here to show them who
we are—that we’re thinking, caring
human beings. With that kind of diver-
sity,” she adds, “‘we educate ourselves,
and hope to educate them about us, too.

Nine foreign students are graduating
this year after having completed full
four-year programs at Davidson. Three
are from India, one from Ecuador, one
from Pakistan, one from Nepal, and one
each fram Spain and Sri Lanka.

“Coming to America for the first time
is a lot like jumping into cold water,”
explains Moore, who is the adviser to
international students at Davidson. The
problems they seem to experience most
often are homesickness, financial
straits, and cultural differences.

To ease their transition into their new
environment, Moore and the Interna-
tional Committee have inaugurated a

spring term lecture series conceming

Inside &

aspects of American life as seen from
the outside, a workshop session about
financial aid and career concerns, and a
program to interview and advise poten-
tial roommates for foreign students.
According to Ismat Husain, a sopho-
more from Zambia and chairman of the
International Committee, the worst
problem facing intemationals is getting
to know American students. At the
beginning of the year, faced with the
challenges of a new language as well as
academic and financial pressures, “the
last thing on our minds is meeting
people. There’s aig bi

sides, PD shan A hange,’. he.exe....

Class of '92 averages 1280

As aresult, he claims, few become in-
volved in Patterson Court activities, a
problem he is working to solve through
a “big brother/little brother’ program.
Through this program, house members
will “adopt” international students and
try todraw them into the social life of the
Court.

“The people in the houses will lear
something from us, and we’ll have a
place to go,” says Husain. Also benefi-
cial to the integration process should be
a program begun this year which places
the students on a freshman hall for the
first two weeks of school.

Next year,- Davidson will welcome
four-year students from Guatemala,
India, South Africa and Kenya. This
year’s applicants were extremely im-
pressive, says Buchmiller. “They are
very fluent, bright, open, andeager. We
[the Admissions Office] don’t have to
make any compromises when we admit
foreign students. The hard part is turn-
ing away somany qualified applicants.”

With activities such as the Interna-
tional Ball on April 16, a trip to the
beach sponsored by the Dean Rusk
Program, and the Intemational Christ-
mas Party, all started this year, these
new students should find their transition
to American college life much easier

and very rewarding.

SATs; median class rank is 3

- By TOBY TRUOG

Admissions standards for acceptance
into Davidson have been steadily be-
coming more selective for the past few
years due to the caliber of students ap-
plying. The numbers are showing that
next year’s freshman class is the best that
Davidson has ever seen.

Sheryl Aikman, an admissions coun-
selor and a graduate of Davidson, adds,
“A lot of upperclassmen would not be
accepted today, myself included. A lot of
them [upperclassmen] are wondering
why their siblings who:may be on their
same level academically are not being
accepted; our standards are. getting
tougher.”

The number of applications for the
Class of 1992 almost doubled last year’s
1,400. Of the 2300 applications, 28.67
percent were accepted.

“Despite the fact that the numberof ap-
plicants has gone up, the application
process is just as extensive as it always
has been,” states Aikman.

The Davidson application still re-
quires four essays and a number of rec-
ommendations, including a peer recom-

. mendation.

With the increased number of appli-
cants, the admissions office can be
even more selective in its: admissions
process.

The class of 1992’s median class
rank is third. The median SAT score of
the 664 accepted students is 1280, as.
compared to 1230 for the class of 1991.

Thirty percent scored above 700 on the

math portion of the SAT; thirty-two
percent scored above 650 on the verbal
portion.

According to Aikman, even though
SAT scores and class rank are getting
higher, they must still be balanced by
personality, activities and communi-
cation skills.

_ Davidson continues to draw primar-
ily from southem states. However,
students have been accepted from 38
States and at least 9 foreign countries.

As was the case last year, the largest
number of accepted students from a
city, 49, come from the Atlanta area,

See CLASS, page 2_

