sports

The Davidsonian .
Tuesday, December 13, 1988

Football team offers plan to save money
in exchange for another year in Division I-AA

By BRUCE NEWSOME
In a plan outlined in the Char-
lotte Observer \ast week, the foot-
ball team showed how it could
save almost half a million dollars
next year. In exchange for these

of Coach Vic Gatto’s first four
full recruiting classes.

Assistant Coach Lee Sargent
was quoted as saying, ‘“We de-
cided to sacrifice across the board

’ in order that we not be liars. For

$4,000 each.

3. The players would give the
$200,000 that they receive in fi-
nancial aid from the Wildcat Club
to the school, in addition to donat-
ing $60,000 from summer job

$17,500.

7. The coaches would also cut
back on off-campus recruiting to
save $25,000.

8. Four of the assistant coaches
would become part time at a sav-

game films at a savings of
$10,000.

The sum total of all these cuts is
$490,250 out of a budget of about
$800,000.

The entire board of trustees is

savings, the team asks that the many of us, it’s a question of earnings. ‘ings of $81,750. scheduled to meet in mid-Decem-
school allow Davidson’s football honor.”’ 4. The team would play only 10 —_« 9. $67,500 would be saved by __ ber to decide whether or not the
program toremain at the Division The plan points out eleven gamesratherthan1lnextyearfor eliminating 1S ofthe financialaid Davidson football program will
I-AA level for at least next year. places that the team can save a savings of $10,000. grants to next year’s freshmen stay at Division I-AA, drop to
The players and coaches want money. 5. There would be one less road _ class. Division III, or be dropped all
to have next year to prove that =‘ 1. Gatto would donate $7,000 game, which would save $7,000. 10. The team would go without _ together.
they belong at the Division I-AA _ of his salary to the Wildcat Club. 6. The coaches would reduce newuniforms next year in order to Gatto was out of town this week
level. 2. The six assistant coaches the number of paid recruiting vis- save $15,000. and could not be reached for com-
Next year’s team would consist would work next season for its to 50. This would save 11. The final cut would be in _ ment on the proposal.
E )
UNCC loss d Wildcats to 2-5
By LARRY DAGENHART Belt Player of the Year Byron Dinkins in an 11-0'run that put the Niners up by 20. _— break baskets from Magic Gaines and
It was one of those games in which check in the first half, but he lit up the The Cats never fell more than 24 points Alan Hunter, who got 17 points, nine
you just couldn’t buy a basket. Satur- Wildcats in the second half, finishing with behind and clawed their way back with from three-pointers.
day night atthe Charlotte Coliseum the a game-high 21 points. some good play from freshmen. Davidson The Cats got balanced scoring and

Forty-Niners of UNCC (3-0) beat
Davidson (2-5), 79-64, to capture the
Hornet’s Nest trophy for the. third
straight year. -
It wasasloppy game for both sides as
| Davidson and UNCC committed 18
os ‘and 19 turnovers, respectively.
; Both squads shot Saeed Davidson

35% from the floor. Maurice Gray was
"the only Wildcat in double figures with
11 points.

Davidson’s defense held 1988 Sus

\

The’. Forty-Niners (a reference to
UNCC’s location on Highway 49) shot
48% from the floor, but they were a miser-
able 14 of 24 from the free-throw line.

The young Wildcats played tenacious
defense throughout and never allowed
UNCC the blowout it had been expecting
all week. Davidson also held its own on the
boards, garnering 40 rebounds to UNCC’s
44.

The game almost turned into a blowout
early in the second half. Trailing only 37-
28 at half time, Davidson opened the sec-
ond stanza tentatively and allowed UNCC

got 20 points from the combination of Ster-
ling Freeman, Paul Denmond, and Paul

Last Monday, Davidson got a confi-
dence-builder with a 90-80 win over Eck-
erd College, its first win since the Puerto
Rico trip. ;

The game gave the Wildcats a chance to
open-things-up’a bit. Davidson had: been
averaging only 48 points a game and was
coming off a miserable 24-point loss to
Wofford, who hadn’t beaten Davidson
since 1958.

Davidson was able to get some fast-

some solid play from reserves, some-
thing coach Bobby Hussey said that
he’s been looking for.

He believes that giving reserves
some experience ‘‘is a lot more im-
portant than putting a lot of points on
the board.’’ Against Eckerd,
Davidson got both, but against
UNCC, it wasn’t so lucky.

The Wildcats faced Erskine Col-
lege in a late game last night in
Johnston Gym. They will take on
Marathon Oil in an exhibition next
Sunday.

A picture is

worth a
thousand
words

(and it really helps
break up gray pages!)

If you feel like
shooting somebody
(or something) wm
The Davidsonian,

contact Alex —
“Amold”’ Hayden at
_-2148 or 6414 for |

Cw SNAKE
Bs
nie: Be

Conce L ART: ANDY NILSSON

Second, Could we have about

Dear Santa,
This has been a very
try year for all of
S. Phave a very long

list on behalf of the College.

first, we would like to
be among U.S.New'S top 10
Colleges nex ie while
retaining that reall toon

10 mun more bai mci rt | team , and
Qnd aco Conference
: mat Footbal!
eee a 3 on We ie
ly to y, With Ti: id niyhis Shoulder +
rv rege omens stort] any  ecekinn: I Know

Just who to call...

