Commentaries

~The Davidsonian -
_ Monday, November 7, 1988

George Bush will continue the Republican prosperity

R. Anders Nilsson

In 1980, inflation was 13.5 percent and interest
rates reached 21.5 percent. The “misery index”,
which measures how healthy an economy is by
combining" the rate of inflation with the rate of
unemployment, stood at 19.5 percent. A “mal-
aise” had set over America that brought despair to
consumers on fixed incomes who witnessed a
steady escalation in prices. Soaring interest rates
dashed young couples’ hopes of purchasing their
own homes. The average income of black fami-
lies fell 12.5 percent between 1978 and 1981.
While the weakest in the economy were hurt the
most, middle-income earners and the wealthy
suffered as well. Once again, the Democratic
Party had promised solutions to the economic
worries of Americans, and had failed to deliver.

In desperation, voters turned to Republican
candidate Ronald Reagan, in the hope that the
economy’s steady decline could be reversed by
the former California governor’s belief that under
Jimmy Carter, the Federal government had hin-
dered the economy more than helped it, and that
a program of spending and tax cuts would ener-
gize the economy, lifting it out of the stagnation
of the Carter years.

Following a recession in 1981- ’82 (the last
gasp of the Carter administration’s economic
program), the domestic economy entered into the
longest peacetime expansion in the nation’s his-
tory, creating more than 17 million new jobs
between 1982 and 1987. By the end of the Reagan
Administration’s most recent calendar year in
office, the misery index had dropped to alow 10.5
percent, the prime interest rate had fallen to 8.22
percent, and the rate of inflation had plummeted
to 3.7 percent. Housing had become more afford-
able, and building starts had increased. Real in-
come for black families had risen 14 percent

between 1982 and 1987, and, from 1983 to 1986,
almost 900,000 black families escaped poverty.
The Reagan-Bush Administration cut the top
marginal tax rate from 70 percent to 28 percent,
spurring investment in an economy ravaged by
the tax and spend policies of the Democrats.
How are these facts relevant to the 1988 elec-
tion? In the words of Vice President George Bush,
speaking before the 1988 Republican National
Convention, “When you have to change horses in
midstream, doesn’t it make sense to switch to the
one who’s going the

percent above the national average, and whose
state’s income taxes are 65 percent higher than the
national average. More than 100,000 manufactur-
ing jobs have been lost in Massachusetts over the
last four years as a result of Dukakis-imposed tax
increases on Bay State corporations and small
businesses. With just 3.1 percent of the nation’s
industrial employment, Massachusetts lost over
40 percent of all manufacturing jobs lost in the
country, and, among the eleven industrial states,
Massachusetts’ employment growth rate has

dropped from sec-

same way?” ond to tenth.

The Democratic The facts speak for
candidate for Presi- . ei themselves. The
dent, Massachusetts U.S. economy has
Governor Michael S. ud witnessed an un-
Dukakis, is clearly paralled period of
swimming in the economic growth

wrong direction with The
respect to the na-
tional economy. He

has referred to the do-,

1988
Presidential Race

and prosperity.
Men. and women,
blacks and whites,
as well as manage-

mestic economy as a

ment and_ labor

“swiss cheese economy,” full of holes. The holes
of which the Governor speaks, however, are ei-
ther minute or nonexistent, as a majority of the 17
million new jobs created since 1982 pay an aver-
age of more than $22,000 a year.

Why, then, would the American people elect as
president a governor who: A) in his first term
imposed the largest tax increase in Massachusetts
history ($540 million), B) in his third term sought
a $222 million tax increase (which the Massachu-
setts legislature rgfused to pass), and C) engi-
neered a state government spending increase of
72 percent from 1983 through 1987 (an increase
that outpaced the cost of living by four times)? To
elect Dukakis would return the nation’s economy
to the days of Carter malaise and place the well
being of working Americans in the hands of a
governor whose state’s property taxes are 81

would be jeopardizing their economic futures by
electing a governor whose economic program so
resembles the failed policies of the Carter Ad-
ministration. The American people have an his-
toric opportunity to choose a president whose
policies will continue the present economic ex-
pansion while addressing serious fiscal concerns,
the greatest of which is the federal budget deficit.
The answer to this and other economic questions
cannot be found in the failed tax and spend
policies of the Democrats. George Bush and the
Republican Party offer the American people hope
for the future, built on the accomplishments of the |
past.

R. Anders Nilsson is a senior political science
major from Winston-Salem, NC.

Bush Presidency a must for an effective foreign policy

Warren Cooksey

The most clear-cut constitutional responsibili-
ties of the President of the United States -- other
than his primary duty of executing the law, of
course -- are concerned with defense and foreign
policy. Thus, when this year’s candidates are con-
sidered, two questions arise : first, who would
make a better commander-in-chief? Secondly,
who would form a foreign policy which would be
of greatest benefit to the United States? The an-
swer to both of these questions is George Bush.

To begin with, George Bush would make a
more effective commander-in-chief. Having wit-

nessed the success of American:actions in Gre- -

nada, Libya, and the Persian Gulf, he understands
the need for limited demonstrations of force in
some cases. Michael Dukakis, on the other hand,
is on the advisory board of the Jobs With Peace
Campaign, which considers such actions
“threaten[ing].” Dukakis opposed U.S. involve-
ment in the Persian Gulf; however, American
actions there destroyed most of the Iranian fleet,
which led to the cessation of conflict. The citizens
of Grenada are much happier now, and it has been

a long time since we heard anything threatening
out of Libya.

In addition, George Bush would run a far more
effective program of arms control negotiations.
The INF Treaty is proof positive that the principle
of negotiating from strength is sound. Further-

‘more, it is highly likely that Michael Dukakis ©

would act too hastily to cut weapons, a supposi-
tion based on his support for the nuclear freeze in
the early 1980s. In’order to preserve fairness,

slow, deliberate negotiations are best. Finally, a
Bush team would be more experienced in arms
control, since Republicans have been working on
it for the past seven years.

The Middle East presents another problem in
foreign policy; one that Michael Dukakis would
only exacerbate. While I doubt that anyone has a
solution to the Middle East dilemma acceptable to

. See BUSH, page 14

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and commentaries.from its
readers. The editors will attempt to print all opinions that:
adhere to the following guidelines:

¢ All submissions should deal with subjects of i interest to the
campus community.

« Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them).

¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present. the

Opinions Policy _

>

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish theirnames
printed with their work.
¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

+ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.
¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which |
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate- _
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other ,
¢ All submissions should include the author's address and
phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author's home
city and state, graduating class, eget ae pecan

