2 ————— Friday, September 30, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News Shofts

Safe Drive needs volunteers

Safe Drive is a volunteer organization which provides rides home for inebriated
teenage drivers or for teenage passengers of inebriated drivers. Students who want
to volunteer should contact Professor R. Bruce Jackson for more information at
Jackson Court #2 or by phone at 892-2316 or 892-8197.

Davidson professor receives

$20,000 grant for solar energy research

The American Chemical Society has given a $20,000 grant to Dr. Ruth Beeston,
assistant professor of chemistry at Davidson, for research in solar energy.

Beeston’s research will be directed at increasing the rates and efficiencies of
reactions in which sunlight converts an inexpensive, abundant material, such as
water, into a fuel, such as hydrogen.

The process involves the absorption of light by a molecule known as photosyn-
thesizer, followed by the transfer of an electron from this molecule to a
“quencher” molecule. In the presence of a suitable catalyst, the quencher
molecule can then use the “extra” electron to reduce water to hydrogen. The
conversion is not yet efficient enough to be used commercially, Beeston says.

Beeston was chosen for this grant because of her approach, which involves
“building” molecules consisting of a photosynthesizer, a quencher, and in some
cases,’a catalyst linked together. She will be researching this project through
August 31, 1990.

National Science Foundation

graduate research fellowships

Applications are now being accepted for three-year graduate fellowships in
science and engineering fields. One category of fellowships are designated for U.S.
citizens or nationals, the other for U.S. minorities of the following ethnic minority
group: American Indian, Black, Hispanic, Native Alaskan (Eskimo or Aleut), or
Native Pacific Islander (Polynesian or Micronesian). , ,

The stipend is $12,300 for a twelve month tenure, with other allowances also
available. November 14 is the application deadline for both fellowships. Informa-
tion and applications are available by writing The Fellowship Office, National
Research Council, 2101 Constitution Avenue, Washington, D.C. 20418 or b . . . .
calling (202) 334-2872. ® ” Bicentennial Celebration of the Presbyterian Church

Regional Presbyterian churches will celebrate the 200th anniversary of their
faith Sunday, Oct. 2, at Davidson College. Concord Presbytery, home to more
than 100 Presbyterian churches, will act as host to members from the Presbyteries
of Mecklenburg, Yadkin, Catawba, Orange, and Asheville.

The afternoon festival, which highlights 200-year-old churches in the area, lasts
from 3:30 to 6 p.m. on the lawn of the Chambers Building. It will include a hot air
balloon, booths, a puppet show and an historical drama by the Unity Woodleaf
Church. At 4:30, supper will be served in Vail Commons, or participants may
bring a picnic dinner. Dimer in the Commons is $4.50. The celebration and
worship service are free.

After dinner at 6 p.m., the Rev. Ben Johnson, professor at Columbia Theologi-
cal Seminary in Decatur, Ga., will preach the worship service on “The Bicenten-
nial: A Vision for Presbyterians’ in Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Davidson College Visitors Center celebrates opening

The Davidson College Visitors Center celebrates its opening with a public
reception on October 5 from 3:30 to 5:30 p.m.

The Visitors Center is located in the Copeland House at 305 Main Street in
Davidson, an historic building with a long tradition of community hospitality. Built
in the 1850’s, the house has served as a hotel, a boarding house, and most recently
the Sesquicentennial Visitors Center. It is now home to both the Visitors Center and
the Office of College Relations.

Hostess Amy Burkesmith welcomes visitors Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 4
p.m. with complete campus and community information.

The center is open to civic groups and individuals as a meeting facility. Center
coordinator Burkesmith will assist with program planning, scheduling and catering
arrangements.

Prominent Chapel Hill historian lectures on Roosevelt

By HEATH HARDAGE such as Irish, Jews, women and blacks, crats through the allegiance of lower in- was asked if the Democrats of 1988 could
He was perceived as a “leader of the according t#Leuchtenburg. come voters, blacks, ethnic groups in big recreate FDR’s coalition.
forces of freedom and hope,” an “all pow- He was “the first president to make con- cities, and a “Solid South.” He replied, “There is a larger percentage
erful Zeus.” He was “supremely confident scious use of the me- ° than usual of voters who don’t feel
in his own powers” and “could imbue oth- dia,” said Leu- committed to any candidate. Con-
ers with a similar confidence.” chtenburg. For in- siderable shifts could occur before
No, William E. Leuchtenburg’s lecture _ stance, in Roosevelt’s election day.” However, the profes-
in the 900 Room last week was not about famous “Fireside sor predicted a narrow win for
Hercules, Superman or even Mighty Chats,” Leuchtenburg Dukakis, “if at all.”
Mouse. The topic was “Franklin Delano _ said, “He appeared to Leuchtenburg has pub-
Roosevelt: His Presidency and His Leg- _ be talking and toasting lished eighteen books, among them
acy.” marshmallows at the the acclaimed Franklin Delano
Leuchtenburg is Kenan Professor of same time.” 8Roosevelt and the New Deal, which
History at the University of North Carolina FDR’s “Good received the Bancroft Prize and has
at Chapel Hill. His area of expertise is Neighbor Policy,” become a standard historical text.
twentieth century American history. success in World War The Ken Kelley Honors
Leuchtenburg’s hour speech was witty, [land hisdevelopment Program in History sponsored Leu-
articulate and peppered with anecdotesand of the United States chtenburg’s h. The fund was
quotes concerning the larger-than-life fig- into the greatest mili- set up in memory of history student
ure of FDR. tary power of the era Kendrick W. Kelley, ’63, who was
Roosevelt came to power in 1933, the contributed toward his A killed in Viemam. Kelley’s parents
fourth year of the Depression. Fifteen mil- ranking as our second were present at: Leuchtenburg’s
lion people were unemployed at this time. greatest president, Senlor san ee ee eer by Alex Hayden speech, which begins a eee
The President faced this and other seem- Leuchtenburg said. 5 lectures to. be given by prominent
ingly insurmountable problems with a Leuchtenburg wenton todiscusstheleg-* This coalition “endures beyond his historians who will visit Davidson in the
“serene,” “anxiety-free,” and “venture- acy of FDR, which he sees reflectedinthe death,” according to Leuchtenburg. “The coming months. ,
some” nature, said Leuchtenburg. Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon, Carter and Dukakis vote still rests on 0538 prin- § Davidson history professor Ralph Lever-

A Democrat who was known as “a friend

of the people,” FDR displayed openness to
groups who were discriminated against,

talked about the “FDR Coalition,” or the
gaining of votes for FDR and the Demo-

ciples.”
After the speech, in a pag minute
question and answer period, Leuchtenburg

ing, who is in charge of the Kelley Pro-
gram, and Dave Rochford, a senior Kelley
Scholar, introduced the speaker.

PRITCHARD, from page 1

seems to speed up the lines in the
Commons and the Cafe.”
Freshman Lauren Follmer
thinks the system is “okay, but it
gives you more. canis't keep up
Carl Teague has been em-

ployed by the College to manage

* the new Campus Network. He

advises students to keep the cards _

away from “microwaves™and

eelskin wallets,” as both are ca-

pable of erasing the magnetic

coding on the back of the card.

The cards may be recoded in ©
the Commons using an encoding
machine if for some reason they
become erased. According to
Teague, the process takes about
two minutes.

Teague asks that students re-
port the loss of a card immedi-
ately. He can then mark the ac-

“Count on the computer and if

anyone tries to use it, the com-
puter will reject the card and no-

_tify the terminal operator so that

eo ee

the card can be collected.

“Our goal is, as always, to offer

the students more services,” says
Pritchard, and he is glad that the
new system is finally in place.
The old manually marked meal
card system “dated ‘back to the

forties and fifties” and he feels —

that with the new system
Davidson is up to date technologi-
cally,

Complete implementation of

the card is scheduled for next

spring.

_ THE FUTURE IS IN

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS |

A representative will be on campus
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1988
to discuss

GRADUATE STUDY

ont AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL
f INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT

Interviews may be scheduled at —
THE CAREERS OFFICE ~

>) THUNDERBIRD ©

