THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, Central Committee
Keith Finch, Editorialist Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor

Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors

Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor Robert Nesbit, Photography Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager John Wightman, Business Manager
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland,
Section Production Editors

A sense of history

As another year draws to a close and another group of seniors prepares to leave
Davidson, we are reminded once again of the student body’s lack of collective memory.
We attend Davidson for just four years, and though our interest in campus controversy (or
what passes for it) may be intense and emotional, it is almost always terribly brief. All too
soon the leaders of any campus movement have left Davidson and entered the real world,
and their causes live on only as the dim memories of those who sat on the sidelines.

There has been little controversy at Davidson in the past nine months. This year has
nonetheless seen the final resolution of several old conflicts, whose outcomes would have
astounded the students who first “fought” these battles just a few short years ago.

For example: who would have believed that semesters could have come to
Davidson so easily? Just five years ago the semester debate was raging across this peaceful
campus, and a vocal majority of students were solidly opposed to any calendar change
whatsoever. Though the faculty decided to retain the trimester system primarily because
they couldn’t agree on acredit-hour system, student opinion was a major factor in shaping
the campus debate. Wouldn’t these activists of yesteryear have been surprised to see
semesters instituted so easily in 1988, without a whisper of protest from today’s students?

Last Fall the college administration finally killed “Flipsides,” the alternative rock
program which for years had stood as the last reminder of the days when WDAV was
entirely student-run. By 1978 students had finally saved enough money to purchase an
18,000-watt FM stereo transmitter for their alternative music station, and at that very
moment the trustees took the station from them, hired a professional staff, and enforced
a classical format.

The move provoked campus-wide protest and a feeling of emnity which is all but
forgotten today. WDAV had been one of the largest extracurricular activities at Davidson,
but soon students were working at the station only as work-study employees and on
“Flipsides.” And now “Flipsides” is gone. Davidson could have had one of the nation’s
greatest student-run radio stations, and instead it spends $50,000 a year to supporta plain-
vanilla public relations tool. Today’s students don’t know what they’re missing, so they
don’t care. Like students at all colleges, they lack any sense of history.

These are just a few examples of recent controversies which have faded into
oblivion. What will happen to the issues which face us today? Will students forget that
there ever was a time without dry rush? Will Professors Frank Albinder and John Engell
be forgotten as Davidson turns into a publish-or-perish diploma factory? Will the memory
of co-ed dining fade from students’ minds as single-sex groups wipe out the last co-ed
houses, so immensely popular throughout the 1970s? Is it forever the destiny of students
to forget the past and meet the future without any knowledge of what others have done
before them?

More than any other Davidson publication, The Davidsonian serves as a feeble
attempt to preserve some of the college’s day-to-day history, some sort of student
collective memory. If you want to learn more about the issues which faced your
predecessors, try reading the bound volumes of old Davidsonians stored in the Davidsoni-
ana room on the second floor of the library. Read about the days when the college was
deciding whether or not to admit women. Read about the year Sam Spencer wiped out most
of Patterson Court. Read about the protests over Cambodia and Kent State in 70. It may
all seem petty or insignificant, but it’s your heritage. You may find that it makes life at
today’s Davidson a lot easier to understand.

With this issue The Davidsonian ends its regular publication schedule for Spring term.
This does not mean, however, that you won’t be hearing anything more from us. . .

The Davidsonian is published during the school year at the whim of the editors or whomever
else happens to be in charge. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson,
NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Don’t send things to us through campus mail;
they'll get lost. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries donot necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, but you should know that by now. Subscriptions cost
$15 per year, or $25 per year for first class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request.
Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. So if they don’t like what we print they
can take us over. Just like they did with WDAV. Argh.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Jim Dillon, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard,
Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Stewart Rawson,
David Scott, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Katherine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lisa “College Relations
Goddess” Gerrard, Chip Houck, John “Just Wanted to be in the Box™™‘Stud Muffin” Hutchin-
son, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Scot “Yes, the Scot Myers that graduated” Myers, Carey Pickard,
Bruce Plourde, John David Ramsey, Bill “Slack” Scouten, Shannon O’ Shields, Florrie Snively.
Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Bruce
Newsome, Philip Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell}.

Photography Staff: Lisa LeNard, Rachel Nation, Lucy Siler.

Staff Artist: Kevin “Never invited to anything” Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

Cultural Consultant: Lee “Finally wrote an article” Eichelberger.

—= Friday, April 29, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Anp Jose Where Were
Vou Doaing THe. Recent Lipraey
AND StupEeNnt Store Breax-Ins 2

Wen, We Was
Crackin’ Down oV
Some. MEAN anp Nasty
Paaning Viccators 7

Letters

A Better Davidson

Dear Editors:

Reading recent issues of Update and The
Davidsonian has moved me to submit the
following curmudgeonly comments:

1) The “divestment” flap continues to
dominate letters sections of both publica-
tions. The editors appear to be attempting
(properly in my opinion) to print contribu-
tions from both points of view on the issue.
I really thought that this celebrated aca-
demic cause had run its course, but perhaps
Davidson has just been a bit slow in grap-
pling with it.

Anyway, the thing that struck me about
recent letters that I read was that the closer
the writer’s personal experience and con-
tact with South Africa (the country, not the
U.S. mediarepresentation) the more under-
standing and tolerant he or she was of the
efforts being made in that country to deal
with a complex, delicate, and potentially
explosive social time bomb.

Certainly the long term strategic interests
of the U.S. are poorly served by the selec-
tive indignation of so many moral purists
embarked on this noisy guilt trip, all
finacial considerations aside.

2) The eloquent paean to high and con-
stantly rising tuition rates expressed in the
March 23, 1988 Davidsonian editorial
should not pass unremarked. As a father of
students in two other private institutions, I
was already acquainted with the Robin
Hood approach to tuition rate setting.

I would merely like to offer this prophecy
for the editor’s consideration: if the editor
ever achieves the blissful state of tuition-

paying parenthood, then he will likely
become far less rapturous over this particu-
lar form of involuntary philanthropy.

Yours for a better Davidson,
Stuart H. Shippey, Jr., M.D.

Central America

Dear Editors:
Iwantto apologize if I madeany mistakes

_ in correcting the facts in Mr. Sculley’s

article. I am not, indeed, an expert in
“poverty” as Mr. Scully claims tobe. Ihave
been very busy working my way through
college washing dishes, cooking, waiting
tables, collecting trash, teaching, occasion-
ally working with the poor in a soup
kitchen, and just being a “minority” in
America; so I haven’t had the time to be-
come an expert on “poverty.” Neither
could I claim a special expertise in Central
America.

You see, I am just a “Salvadoran” born
and raised on a farm near San Salvador, and
I haven’t had the opportunity to travel for
several weeks in Central America in order
to become an expert in the aréa. So, after
this year, when Mr. Scully goes back to his
home in a well-to-do suburb in Massachu-
setts, I hope he remembers me as “‘just an
ignorant citizen of the third world.” How-
ever, facts are facts and I can’t apologize for
Mr. Scully’s misinterpretation of reality.

Sincerely °
Galo Cabrales
