Friday, November 18, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN-

Research with a difference
‘“Ratlab’’ may change the way

doctors treat brain damage

By ANJALI SHARMA

Students in psychology profes-
sor Julio Ramirez’s neuroscience
class are finding out what it’s like
to be at the cutting edge of scien-
tific research.

As part of the Ramirez ‘‘Ratlab’’
research team they are involved in
a study that may have.a tremen-
dous impact on the relatively new
field of neuroplasticity.
Ramirez’s experiments with rats
may someday help doctors treat
patients with brain damage.

A senior member of the team,
psychology major Ray Harsh-
barger, said, ‘‘I am really excited.
I feel like a pioneer of sorts in this
relatively new field of study. It is

present in the brain, in speeding
recovery of damaged tissue.
Harshbarger explained, ‘‘The
biochemical nature of gangli-
oside is unknown as yet. Its appli-
cation was discovered quite by
accident when it was used on the
control group of an experiment.”’
Ramirez proposes that gangli-
oside accelerates the recovery of
damaged tissues and protects the
neurons from further damage.
To prove this, he and his team
first showed that recovery does
take place. They taught the rats to
run a maze for a reward of food.
After the 10- to 12-day period
that it took the rats to learn. the
maze, students made lesions on

learning.
After students made the le-

sions, they noticed that the rats®

seemed to forget how to run the
maze. The students injected a
synthesized drug form of gangli-
oside into the rats and began
teaching them the. maze again.
After a 10- to 12- day period, the
rats were able to run the maze
once again.

Harshbarger and sophomore bi-
ology major Thava Mahadevan
said they noticed that the re-learn-
ing occurring after a partial lesion
is not hindered even by further
tissue damage. Their recovering
rats could still run the maze after
they made a second lesion on the

only in the last 15-20 years that the entorhinal center of the rats’ animals’ brains.
neuroplasticity has been studied _ brains by burning the tissue with In another type experiment,
and within my life-time there will electrodes. students are trying to teach the

be more learning and clinical

The entorhinal cortex is ideal

rats in what is called a Skinner

practices in hospitals.’” for this type research not only Box to press a bar, wait 10 sec-

Ramirez’s particular area of re- - because scientists already knowa_ nds and press it again for a re-
search is the first of itskind. He is lot about it, but also because it is ward. wa be
studying the potential use of gan- connected to the hippocampus, See RATLAB, page 6 Senior Chuong Vu and the rest of Ramirez’s ‘‘Ratlab’’ team are on the

glioside,'a substance naturally

the neural area associated with

by

cutting edge of research.

Photo by Bill Hartman

- os

ge a a .* bs . ‘
bel. aon i / rp ae

my bike to keep in shape for repelling--
my bicycle, I mean.’’ Sometime he
hopes to complete his goal of visiting all
Beneath shelves stocked with opaque 50 states; his count is currently at 35.
potions like ‘‘Lucky Tiger Hair Tonic,’’ If the fidgeting youngster hasn’t
signs of along life of service hang fromthe shared in our journey into the past, his
plaster -- Unit Commissioner of Boy haircut has. A grubby hand smoothes
Scouts of America, the Silver Beaver over his scalp, and he grimaces at the
Award for distinguished service to youth, urchin in the greying mirror. Ah, if only
the M.C. King Humanitarian Award ofthe Norman Rockwell were here. Accepting
Mount Zion Baptist Church. a wadded bill, Norton hands down his
Why the decades spent busy by the change and an orange lollipop, but the
chair? ‘‘It’s just interesting serving people boy is not to be placated. With a last
from all walks of life,’’ he says. ‘‘More reproachful gaze at his collegiate neme-
recently, from all over the world.’’ No, he _ sis, he trudges out into outlines softened
has noimmediateplanstoretire. Whenthat by dusk, unaware that he has become a
time comes he will indulge in his hobbies _ part of a history unfolding one day at a
 ofmountainclimbingandrepelling. ‘‘Iride time.

NORTONIZED, from page 4

NATURAL RESOURCES
WILL BE CLOSED FROM
NOVEMBER 24-27.

[ee ss ee ee ee ee en ey

ARIZONA. from left after seeing it several times the humor is BUY ONE
Bibra still fresh and entertaining. The viewer GET ONE

|

I

“angles parallel the movie, for the — Will either love or hate Raising Arizona, |} t (28 @8=€=—s«&FRREEE I
I

|

viewer isnever quitecenteredinthoughtor for there is no middle ground.

MH ae film. . Whether you enjoy or despise the YOGU RT
Inababy scene, the camera focuses from film, the direction still bears attention,

high above or on the ‘ground, but never As a vehicle for H.I.'s and Ed’s mad-

straight on, giving the ideaofsizedifferen- ness, it is perfect. Raising Arizona's

tial. The movie owes much of its style and Pleasant madness makes it an example

humor to such imaginative photography. of the new age in film direction and a
ica movie is highly enjoyable, andeven . Movie worth viewing.

[Trissy Lomax/Owner 128 S. Main Street }
§704-892-7521 Davidson, NC |

| [COUPON GOOD ‘THROUGH DECEMBER 31]

