14

Field Hockey

‘Wildcats tie Wake Forest in
double overtime

By LARRY DAGENHART, JR.

Last Tuesday, the Demon Deacons of
Wake Forest University came to Davidson
to play the Wildcats in field hockey. The
game ended in a 1-1 tie.

Davidson started the game rather nerv-
ously and seemed a bit intimidated by their
second ACC opponent.

Wake scored the first goal six minutes

into the contest as Karen Liberi knocked ~

one in from the left of the circle on acorner
hit.

After the goal, Davidson increased its
intensity and got the ball down on the Wake
Forest side more often. Highlights of the
first half included two one-on-one runaway
stops by sweeper Francesca Fiero.

“We were pretty stiff in the first half,”
said Coach Betsy Pryor, “but in the second
half [we] got our nerves out and outplayed
them through two overtimes.”

Three minutes into the second half, Gigi
Cooke tied the score with a goal from the
right side to precede a fifty-minute defen-
Sive struggle.

The only goal of the two ten-minute
overtimes was a disallowed Wake Forest
goal off a free hit after a Davidson foul in its
own circle. The free hit did not touch a
Wake Forest offensive player -before it
went into the goal, making it illegal.

Davidson, however, outshot the Deacons

eeper Alison Chapman

20-18, and goa i
stoppe ,
saves [-

ake’s 18 shots for goalie

\
“1 was pleased,” said Pryof. “We'could _

have won if we hadn’t been so nervous in
the first half. Our marking was excellent in
the second half and sheir scoring opportuni-
ties were taken away.”

Monday’s 3-1 loss at High Point was a
game Pryor said “never should have been
played.”

The field was covered with mud, and the

Wildcats played like a totally different
team. Both the ‘Cats strength and speed
were neutralized.
added Pryor.
Lauren Follmer got her fifth goal of the
season as Davidson dropped to 2-2-1.

Field Hockey Thought of the Week:
Whatare the field hockey positions? Start-
ing from midfield and going back, there
are three attacks up front, three midfield-
ers, three defensive players, one sweeper,
and one goalie. This is the formation that
Davidson uses but there are, of course,
variations on the setup.

The attacks are responsible for getting
ihe ball down the field and act like for-
wards in soccer. Midfielders tend to mix
their duties as offensive and defensive
players and require momentum to do both.

On offense, the midfielders help move
the ball downfield and work with attacks to
set up-cross passes and through balls. At-
tacks and midfielders are conveniently
interchangeable in their positions.

On defense, each midfielder marks an
opposing midfielder, with the center
midfielder taking the “quick” attack if the
opponent plays with four attacks.

Defensive players mainly play just what
their title indicates, but many times work
at getting the ball downfield. A defender
can easily make a cross pass and immedi-
ately be a recipient of a through ball.

The sweeper hangs back on defense and .

stops runaways, loose balls in the circle,
helps clear the ball out to the offense.
e goalie position is self-explanatory.
One Wifference from ice hockey is that
field hockey goalies do not have the privi-
lege of a fatter stick.

Those are the positions in a nutshell.
Watch for other field hockey miscellany in
future issues.

PICKS, from page 13

in years. Two of the most versatile quarter-
backs in the game, Major Harris of West
Virginia and Darnell Dickerson of Pitts-
burgh, will lead their teams. Game should
come down to the last minute. Prediction...
West Virginia 27-24.

' Oklahoma St. at Texas A&M: Home

field advantage and motivation will defi-
nitely be in Texas A&M favor, after losing
their first 2 games. However Oklahoma
St.’s passing offense with Mike Gundy at
quarterback and Hart Lee Dykes at wide
receiver should give Texas A&M trouble.
Prediction...Oklahoma St. 27-14.

Davidson at Fordham: The only game

for the Davidson faithful. Put your party
hats on. Prediction:...Davidson 35-27.

“We played awful,” .

for

Here's Humphrey Yogurt

k's!

a HERE'S LICKIN’) Z4 =
S AT. T_You, KID, ‘

Norman Crossing Shopping Center
_ +77 & Hwy 73, Exit 28
Lake Norman / Cornelius
892-9873

Lunch Served Monday through Friday
11:00'a.m. to 2:00 p.m.

een

| . Circulation Staff: Holme, I lost the list! «

> Thursday, September 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports. Editors
John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
David Host, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Margaret Carroll, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland,
Section Production Editors

The saga continues

Sorry to be harping on housing again, but it seems unavoidable. The
deadline for Building “C” to be finished is next Thursday. It is unlikely that
the deadline will be reached with an acceptable level of quality. Though
official sources remain tight-lippedly optimistic about it, construction
workers at the site colorfully told reporter David Scott their side in this
week’s lead story.

“‘Ain’t no way in hell” the dorms will be completed on time, said one man.
Another said that even should the dorms be completed in time, “I sure
wouldn’t want to live in them.”

Grrr! Why is this being allowed? As has been mentioned in this space
before, we don’t want another Irwin/Akers/Knox fiasco, but that is what the
situation seems to be heading toward.

Itis unlikely that housing officials can make displaced seniors more angry
than they already are, so why chop a few weeks off what is a reasonable
completion date of these dorms and create problems that will haunt the
college for years? Since these units are more elaborate and sophisticated
forms of housing than all others Davidson has, a ‘poor construction job here
could make them virtually unlivable. ;

When the dorms are finally completed at some date in the future, seniors
will be expected to leave their comfy pads in lounges and basements across
the Davidson metro area. Last we heard, they will be given.a week to get to
the Promised Land. At this point in the semester, it should be no problem,
but as the term drags on, the papers and tests pile up. It is not a remote
possibility that one or more of the buildings Will be completed near finals.

Here’s to hoping that the administration has the sense not to push the
construction work at the expense of quality. Here’s to hoping they imple-
ment a humane “evacuation” strategy should a building open up near exam
time. Sure, they’re batting their way back into the Little Leagues right now,
but is it too much to hope?

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the students of Davidson College, and
it looks to be fairly regularly this year, too! A correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box
219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the tippy-
top floor of the Grey Student Union building, veritably the Union Nosebleed Seats. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first
class postal rates. For $250 per week, we will have a gorgeous semi-clad woman deliver it to
your door. Offer not open to Trey Harrell. Careers rns easement Copyegieis
held by the Trustees of Davidson College. Mini-Editorial: Bush is a weenie.

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Margaret Carroll, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas,
Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete
Mangone, Ed Powell, Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret
Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, John “Bush is my spiritual hero”
Hutchinson, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Man-
_ jooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen, Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon
O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica
Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.

Sports Staff: John Bums, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, “John
Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett,
Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.

Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, ce
Keider, Tonja L » Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen.

Staff Artists: Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
Advertising Czars: John Hutchinson, Scooter.

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris. -

seamen este
