: ———= Thursday, October 20, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

;
H

enact a PT RE Asan

et © ‘Columnist Ellen Goodman speaks Monday 4
ng on “A Matter of Values”. ee ae
- = EllenGoodman, a columnist for the Boston Globe, EL RE
‘at 8:00 p:m. on Monday, October 24. Her address is entitled “A Matter of Values.” ion
“Goodman says’ she is able to “follow, like a scorekeeper, the conflicts and cor
ambivalences of our lives.” eS
-<Goddinda has wtben a book: Cui social chanigo Calica Tae Pane al tnalty ok
her‘columns have been published in collections including Close to Home and At et
Large. She has received ‘several awards including the Pulitzer Prize fc disti
guished commentary, New England Women’s Press Association Woman of the The t
Br asnadaaies tel ivcs tapiesd Nesepiget wats ou ae the An
eee eens aes nes SUS Le
Gunmen rob Lotus vs Jatt
icc seca ioe With ptsiols. sifles, pad “poscibly autoekanic weansiae’ cen fener td aerate l havad- ig a SNE
the Lotus Chinese restaurant in Mooresville at 9:45 p.m. on October 6, 1988. The :
gunmen, described by witnesses as “oriental,” ordered the few customers present
into one room and demanded their money and jewelry.
The men then forced the manager to open the cash register and took the money
inside. Before leaving the restaurant, the men directed the customers into a room
we ae ey ee

ij
=

The Iredell jos abcsits Acjactiicin woke with the StateBureauofInves- 40" may be ot
tigation, has failed to turn up any leads on the crime. is
International Committee donates $400 to Habitat

This year’s Intérnational Festival to benefit Habitat for Humanity was able to
raise $400 by selling t-shirts and services. The services consisted of writing names
in foriegn languages, selling foods, and selling custom dresses. The $400 check was ;
presented Service Coontinator Carolyn Craig by inteshadionss Committee Chair-
man Ismat Husain on behalf of all international students.

Craig said; “Such a gift is periculafly inteningfét because fhe lintinive came
from the students and because they chose to give of themselves by investing their _ a eae
iacharebinc:.-agtegns8 vr asides — am. eo

apiece, a fraction of the cost of the
TREES, from page 1 lampposts. that were similarly -
destroyed last year. “As Morris
intelligence. ‘It takes aperson of _ pointed out, however, ‘the trees
higher intelligence tocometothis represented the college’s effort'to
. School,” he said. “Why do they introduce “unusual and different
lose their intelligence ‘and do cultivars” and were for the enjoy-
something like this when they get ment of everyone. “It is ridicu-
here?” lous to choose for different char-
The two trees that were de- acteristics if people choose to ruin
stroyed cost between $60 and $75 them,” he said.

ELvis SIGHTED IN
Find out how v You can have your medical school tuition, ss books and |
tog ldo sienna one Ns eee ee preg
a e coupon and we'll send you full details on the
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. --eAND HE WAS WRITING
Arun Navy Legh: _ - could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the A PIECE FOR INSIDE ART.
: eigsee eg ‘ll not only beat the high cosh ay sche yeu ‘ ase gain. I ;
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as : aye, ‘
a commissioned officer in the Reserves. 7% Inside Art: Davidson’s bold journey
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service into the artistic unknown.
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected Re

Armed Forces physician. You'll also get ps prs pay, regular hours, great benefits
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical
technology.

if you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—
and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today.

Pa ese eee

Send me full details on how the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship
can help cut my medical school expenses. | meet the age requirements noted

Study Abroad

LONDON <:

1 | am under no obligation. : :
Maitthis coupon to: Armed Forces ‘Scholarships, P.0. Box 2865 tei
Huntington Station, NY 1748-2102 9013 CENT
eel a eT pla |
years years of age! years of age w SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM
Piogep beet eh etereetan clean ont complete mw ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT
: savaaes, = C)Male Cfemale -@ BRITISH FACULTY

Address 3 rf era St
City. State = Aes a A
ree OLD Cor 7} soc. sec. No.1 11 C1 CLIT

a
;
o> aa ee h

_ Field of Study — Graduation Date

The information you seletariy provide wil be uid fo outing purposes The complete it is; the
bear econ eapondts your requestor W USC 503) esahbee tl ps

' Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York 14850 607-274-3306
