News Shorts

McDonald’s sponsors writing contest

McDonald’s Corporation is receiving entries for the 1988 Literary Achievement
Awards for Writing on the Black Experience in America. The contest offers awards
in fiction, poetry and playwriting. Fiction works can be a maximum of 50 pages;
poetry cannot exceed 20 pages; and plays must be at least 20 pages. A $2,000 gift and
a trip to New York to attend a literary reception will be granted to winners in each
category. Entries must be mailed to The Negro Ensemble Company, McDonald's
Literary Achievement Awards, P.O. Box 778, Times Square Station, New York, N.Y.
10108. Deadline for entries is June 1, 1988. For more information, contact The

Davidsonian.

Love of Learning searching for counselors

The Love of Learning program is accepting applications for counselor-mentors.

Monday, April 4, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students will work July 3-30 as paid counselors to 60 high school students from the
Charlotte-Mecklenburg area. Deadline for receipt of applications is April 8. For more
information, contact assistant chaplain Brenda Tapia.

English Department names

Professor of Writing

aq

The Davidson College English Department has named its first McGee Professor
of Writing. Peter Meinke, director of the writing workshop at Eckerd College, will
teach classes in advanced poetry, fiction and composition beginning next spring
semester. Meinke is the author of the short story “The Piano Tuner.” He is a 1955
graduate of Hamilton College and received his doctorate degree from the University

of Minnesota in 1965.

Freshman receives suspension for Honor Code violation

Lavarro admits to charges of plagiarism, suffers standard penalty

By KEITH FINCH

At an open honor council hearing on
Monday ‘night, freshman José Rizalde
Lavarro was penalized with a two-term
suspension after pleading guilty to charges
of plagiarism. In his defense, Lavarro’s ad:
visors sought to prove that he had commit-
ted the acts of plagiarism unknowingly,
having accidentally submitted the rough
draft of a paper instead of the final draft.

The seven-page paper had bcen assigned
as a part of professor Grant Jones’ Anthro-
pology 101 course. Lavarro submitted it to
Jones on February 12.

According to Honor Council Defense
Advisor Mark Piehl, who read a defense
statement, Jones noticed large sections of
Lavarro’s paper which he believed were not
in Lavarro’s own words. Jones then inves-
tigated the works which Lavarro had cited
as his sources for the paper.

Jones finally reported to Dean of Stu-
dents Will Terry his suspicion that Lavarro
was guilty of several documentation errors
in the body of his paper, and that he had
invented two of the sources cited in his
bibliography.

Piehl said that Lavarro was informed of
the charges against him by the Honor
Council’s student solicitors, who contacted
him at 7:30 p.m. on March 10. Lavarro
testified that the solicitors had at that time
shown him a copy of the paper he had
submitted for his anthropology class.

Upon seeing the paper, Lavarro realized
that he had accidentally printed and handed
in his rough draft instead of his final draft,
Piehl said.

Pieh! said that Lavarro had saved both his
roughand final drafts on the same computer
diskette, and that in his haste to complete
the assignment he mistakenly printed a
copy of his rough draft and submitted it to
Jones. Lavarro said he had been in a hurry
to finish the paper so he could attend foot-
ball practice, and that he had not looked at
the paper when he printed it but had merely
stapled the sheets together and turned them
in.

Pieh! circulated a list of the files on
Lavarro’s diskette, and pointed out that the
name of the file containing the rough draft
was similar to that of the file containing the
final. He said it was easy to see how Lavarro
could have mistaken one file for another..

According to Piehl’s statement and
Lavarro’s own testimony, Lavarro regu-
larly composed research papers by tran-
scribing long passages directly from his

sources into the computer. Only later would

consisted of uncited quotations copied di-
rectly from his source material.

“When questioned by Defense Advisor
Mike Cowen, Lavarro said that after realiz-
ing his mistake he began to search for the
diskette containing his anthropology paper
files. He could not find it, so he went to
discuss the matter with his hall counselor
and some other friends.

Eventually, Lavarro said, he found the
diskette and went to the User Services
Building toprintacopy of his final draft. He
said.he only spent ten or fifteen minutes
there. Then he went to a party on Patterson
Court, and finally went to sleep later that
evening. He delivered the final draft, along
with his diskette, to Jones the next after-
noon.

Piehl said that Jones suspected Lavarro of
lying about his computer mix-up, and of
having edited his final draft only after
hearing of the charges against him.

In response to this accusation the Honor
Council heard the testimony of four wit-
nesses who between them established that
Lavarro did not have enough time to write
a new paper. that evening. The witnesses,
residents of Lavarro’s hall, said he had
watched television and talked until 9:30
p-m. or later and had shown them a copy of
his final draft at around 10:15 p.m.

Student Solicitor Peter Wright accepted
this testimony as true and conceded that
there was no reason to believe Lavarro had

written a new paper on the evening of ——___

March 10.

Piehl acknowledged that even Lavarro’s
final draft contained “scattered examples”
of plagiarism, but he argued that this was
due to Lavarro’s lack of skill in paper-
writing techniques and notto any disrespect
for the Honor Code.

Piehl said that Lavarro had made similar
errors of documentation in all his papers for
his English 21. class, where he demon-
strated a poor command of English (his
second language) and received low grades.

Piehl also pointed out that the two
sources Jones believed Lavarro had “in-
vented” did indeed exist, although one title
listed in Lavarro’s bibliography repre-
sented a combination of the titles of two
works.

Lavarro’s offenses were unintentional,
Piehl said, and Lavarro “remains an honor-
bound Davidson student.”

Wright spoke for the solicitors, arguing
that Lavarro’s computer mix-up was imma-
terial since even the plagiarism in the sec-
ond, final draft represented a serious viola-

he return to paraphrase ideas, add quotation * tion of the Honor Code.

marks, and insert proper citations. Hence
large sections of Lavarro’s rough draft

Wright said that Lavarro’s method of
paper-writing contradicted what he had

recommendations.

been taught in his English course and dur-
ing freshman orientation. He further ré-
marked that Lavarro could have at any time
asked his professors for assistance in im-
proving his documentation skills.

Wrightconcluded by recommending that
Lavarro be subjected to the normal Honor
Code sanction, a two-term suspension. He
further recommended that Lavarro receive
a grade of F in his Anthropology 101 course
and be required to repeat English 21.

After meeting in a closed executive ses-
sion, the Honor Council accepted Wright’s
Lavarro’s two-term
suspension will be considered to have be-
gun at the beginning of last term, so he will
lose all credit for his winter term courses
and will be eligible to reenter Davidson at
the beginning of next year.

Honor Council chairperson Holly Sparks
said, “We felt these sanctions were appro-
priate based on the extensive plagiarism
within the papers, particularly within the
second revised version. In addition, the
papers demonstrated the defendant’ s negli-

gence in learning and applying proper
documentation techniques that had been
taught in his English 21 class.”

“A two-term suspension is the standard
sanction for Honor Code violations, and the
Council also hoped that the time away from
Davidson would provide him with time to
reassess his college career, and will hope-
fully give him a fresh start next fall with a
composition class.”

Lavarro’s hearing was the first open
Honor Council hearing this year. Students
charged with violations have the right to
request an open hearing if they so desire;
otherwise all proceedings are carried out in
the strictest confidentiality.

Lavarro has the right to appeal to the
President of the college, who has the au-
thority to lessen the severity of his sentence.

Other Honor Council members present
included seniors Lauren Adams and Clara
Broniec, juniors John Cock and Craig Car-
lock, and sophomore D.J. Snell. The Honor
Council Secretary, junior Molly Cochran,
was also in attendance.

WINTER ¢ SPRING « SUMMER « FALL
STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR LESS AT

OXFORD

invited WIS:

Several Colleges of Oxford University have _—
to recommend qualifie

students

to study under the tutorial system as Visiting
Students or Associaie Students for one year or

for one or two terms.

Upper Sophomore status

is required, and graduate study is available.

Integrated student housing, social activities,

tours offered by WIS

special summer

session is directed by WISC.

Past student evaluations avaitable.

INTERN IN —
WASHINGTON

SUMMER 1988

Pre-professional program: internships in Congress, the
media, the White House, think tanks, etc. Related

courses in Government or Journalism.

The Washington International Studies Center
Room 713A, 901 Six Street SW
Washington, DC 20024
(202) 337-9378/9379
(EO/AA)

