10

"THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jon Dyar Boles, Great Helmsman
Keith Finch, Editorialist Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor
Tripp Helms, Muadi Mukenge, News Editors
Rachel Nation, Inside Art Editor Julius Nyerere, Ujamaa Editor

Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors \

Jeff Loser, Advertising Manager John Wightman, Business Manager
Lucia Kendall, Opinions Editor, Circulation Manager
Brooke Knight, Editor Emeritus Lynda Korfmann, Production Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland,
Section Production Editors

Dry rush: let the houses
decide for themselves

The Patterson Court Council could easily force all of Davidson’s fratemnities and
eating houses to accept dry rush programs. If only six houses voted in favor of such
a measure, they would effectively defeat any opposition from the other five.

Such strict democracy may not be the best way to decide the college’s dry rush
policy. An attempt to force dry rush upon unwilling houses would generate
considerable resentment, especially since much of the Court has adopted the
mindless, paranoid view that dry rush is some sort of Dean’s Office/Squid house/
Davidsonian “plot” to eliminate the use of alcohol as a “rush tool.” As long as such
senseless prejudice divides the Court, debates over rush policy will always lead to
needless friction.

Furthermore, a forced dry mush is useless as a form of education. Indeed, by
banning alcohol the PCC may make surreptitious drinking even more attractive
than it is under current restrictions. Houses which want to make alcohol available
will do so, just as under-age individuals can obtain liquor whenever the desire
strikes them.

Dry rush must gain acceptance as a result ofits virtues, not just because a majority
of PCC members want to force it down the other houses’ throats. The PCC should
let each house decide the dry rush issue for itself. Eventually the “wet” houses will
begin to realize the worthlessness of rushing in an alcoholic haze: their pledge

Classes will shrink, the diversity of their membership will decline, and their ranks
will fill with poor students and alcoholics. Only then will they recognize the virtues
of dry rush, and only then will they voluntarily accept its restrictions.

Patterson Court provides its members with an education, just like the rest of the
college. Is this education best served through strict enforcement of controversial -
rules, or is it best to allow students and their organizations to leam from their own
decisions? If a dry rush policy would indeed be best for Patterson Court, is it not
reasonable to allow each house to accept it voluntarily?

Just a thought

The parking lot for the new sports complex will provide spaces for 617 cars. If
you're upset that so many trees were destroyed to make way for the lot, at least you
can take comfort in the knowledge that the lot is supposed to solve Davidson’s
parking problem.

Unfortunately you’re also forced to wonder at the architects’ arithmetic. The new
basketball arena will contaimr5600 seats, and if the gym ever sells out we can expect
to see cars parked six ranks deep on Chambers lawn. Why is Davidson building
such a large arena but neglecting to provide parking for the crowds which are
supposed to fill it? Are the planners just assuming that the new gym will indeed
never be filled?

Let’s not forget that a big gymnasium can bring a college considerable prestige

(ane status, even if the extra seats are never filled. It’s much harder to boast about
tthe size of a school’s parking lots .. .

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the school year by the students of Davidson
. College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone
(704) 892-2000, ext. 149. Our offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union
building. If you can’t find it, just follow the smell of No-Doz and rubber cement. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for first
class postal rates. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of
Davidson College.

News Staff: Margaret Carroll, Suzanne Craymer, Jim Dillon, George Kurani, Lisa LeNard,
Aaron Levine, Peter Mangone, Rachel Nation, Ed Patte, Susan Pearsall, Stewart Rawson,
David Scott, Toby Truog.

Features Staff: Dave Alyea, Russell Booker, Lisa Gerrard, Tim Jacks, Frank Lord, Scot
Myers, Carey Pickard, Bruce Plourde, Bill Scouten, Shannon O’ Shields, Florrie Snively.
Sports Staff: Stephen Bell, Larry Dagenhart, Chris Hughes, Anthony McCarron, Philip
Prescott, Stewart Rawson, Bill Smith, Matt Terrell.

Photography Staff: Glenn Fogle, Ken Jones, Lisa LeNard, Rachel Nation, Holme Oltrogge,
Andre Roberts, Lucy Siler. =

Staff Artist: Kevin Dunn.

Circulation Staff: Callie Hammond, Beth Parker, Fred Pullen.

Cultural Consultant: Lee Eichelberger.

TDanipsent is

Wednesday, April 13, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fevee B Loom

THE Ge SACS.

STUDENTS.

— THe

Letters

Chlamydia
Dear Editor:

I agreed to the interview with The
Davidsonian about chlamydia because it
is a public health problem and the popula-
tion in general seems to know little about
chlamydia. Though the information in the
article was, for the most part accurate, I
was disappointed in the way in which ch-
lamydia was presented.

The use of the word “venereal disease”
in the title has many negative connota-
tions. That term implies promiscuity and
is totally inappropriate in describing
people who have had chlamydia. The
more favored term these days, because
chlamydia is so common, is “sexually
transmitted disease”.

My greatest concern about the article is
the possible negative effect on students
who may have had chlamydia and the im-
plication that Davidson College is
uniquely involved with this illness. I
stated clearly to the interviewer that
Davidson College is no different from any
other school in its sexually transmitted
diseases and that the rate of these diseases
does not seem to have changed over the
last few years. I want tomakeitclear tothe
readers that nothing is unique about
Davidson and the fact that chlamydia is
present among sexually active student.

I do hope the article served to inform
people about the presence and: symptoms
of chlamydia so that they can seek treat-
ment promptly, for it is curable.

Sincerely,
Audrey W. Shields, M.D.

Thanks

Dear Friends,

I would like to thank all of you for the
tremendous amount of support that I have

received during my bout with cancer.

When I was first informed that I had
atumor and needed'surgery at once, my life
as I had been used to it had to be put on hold.
Throughout the long hours of tests, post-op
recovery, and the six weeks of twice a day

radiation therapy, it was the knowledge of
your genuine and sincere support that
helped make some of the lows much more
bearable.

I realize that this short note can easily
become all too melancholic, but it is essen-
tial that you understand how much you have
all meant to me. ———_—_

After all the weeks of fighting the can-
cer, I have received some good news. The
tumor seems to have stopped growing and
the third and final operation took place on
March 14th. The support and concern from
countless friends has made and continues to
make this fight much easier.

If you find these words a bit haphazardly
intermingled, there is anice and easy expla-
nation for it. I am finding ita bit difficult to
express my eternal gratitude for all the love
and the help that I have received during the
past several months. To sum it all up, I’m
looking forward to returning to campus.
The difficult part will be attempting to
return even a fraction of all the help, the
support, and the love that I have received
from all of you.

Love,
Michael B Makonnen

Honor Council
To the editors:

I wanted to offer two slight corrections to
Keith Finch’s article on the recent open
Honor Council hearing.

First, all hearings are open unless the
student charged requests that a hearing be
Closed. If a hearing is closed, the honor
council members, the student solicitors, the
student defense advisers, any witnesses,
and the defendant sign a pledge stating that
the proceedings and the decisions will
remain strictly confidential.

Second, there is another step for appeal
prior to an appeal to the President. The '
Review Board, composed of three faculty
members and two elected students, reviews
appeals on the grounds of “why the evi-
dence upon which the person was found

ya

See HONOR, next page

ry
