Friday, March 11, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN
\ +

News Shorts

Spring Awareness Weekend

The Chaplain’s Office is sponsoring a weekend work retreat to inner-city Charlotte on
March 25, 26, and 27. Former Chaplain Charlie Summers began the Awareness
Weekend Program to make student aware of the need that exists poor urban areas and
the different service organizations that are meeting these needs. Students will work
with the Uptown Day Shelter for the homeless, Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church,
Habitat for Humanity, and other inner city ministries. Students may sign up in the
Chaplain’s office. For more information, contact acting Chaplain Brenda Tapia or
Tripp Helms.

Trustees Meet

The Board of Trustees met on campus February 25 and 26 for their annual winter
meeting.

They discussed: Davidson's investment policy regarding corporations which do
business in South Africa; possible faculty review of tenure candidates; alliance with
an athletic conference; plans for an upcoming fundraising campaign, and institution
of an AIDS policy.

The discussions did not result in any new policies on these issues, according to
Assistant to the President Nelle McCorkle. The Trustees do plan to “consider further
discussion in the larger community” regarding South African investments, says
McCorkle,

Three new trustees began their terms of office at this meeting: Francis (Buddy) Kemp
°63, Frank Murphy °69, and Elizabeth Randolph.

Students repair homes in Appalachia over spring break

Appalachia Summer Internship Program

The Overseas Development Network is sponsoring an internship program with
service organizations in the Appalachian region. Intems work in health care
programs, food, clothing and furniture distribution shelters, and environmental
organizations. The application deadline is March 15, 1988. For more information
and application material, send a self-addressed stamped (39 cents) envelope to:
ODN, P.O. Box 1430, Cambridge, MA, 02238.

Davidson Awarded Grant for Laser Lab

Davidson College has received a$50,000 grant for the W.M. Keck Foundation inLos
Angeles to help equip a modern laser research and teaching laboratory for physics
and chemistry students, Presidents John W. Kuykendall announced Tuesday, March
8.
The grant will be applied toward the purchase of a $112,000 laser system, the
centerpiece of a $175,000 laser laboratory that will open up new opportunities for
research by students and faculty, Additional funding has com from the National
Science Foundation.

Job Search Program now in Careers Office

The 1987-88 edition of JOBSOURCE, a computerized job search program, is now
available for students in the Careers Office. The program lists paid internships and
professional employment opportunities available nationwide and internationally.
The jobs are listed by field and by geographic location. Students are encouraged to
visit the Careers Office and try the program.

By LUCIA KENDALL
Seven Davidson students participated in
the Appalachia Service Project in

Jonesville, Virginia during spring break.

Volunteers in the United Methodist
Church sponsored program build and repair
‘homes in the rural Appalachian region.
Participants are divided into work crews of
four to six people ahd work with a supervis-

ing Carpenter on various projects.

One work crew tore down and rebuilt a
porch. Another crew rebuilt two walls in a
home by putting in studs, reframing two
windows, insulating and putting up sheet-
rock.

The goal of the program isto make shelter
“Warmer, Safer, and Dryer” for the people
of Appalachia, an area plagued with pov-
erty and illiteracy.

Participants were disturbed by the living
conditions in the region. Freshman Ellen
Ott says the experience made her more
aware and made her feel “concern, hope,
and sorrow.”

The group became friends with Gary, a
local resident. Molly Graver, a freshman,
said about Gary, “He shared his back-
ground with us. The differences in his life
and mine angered me.... Ithit me once again
that our world is so unfair to its people. I

think this anger will drive me change
something.”

Davis said, “ASP really contributes to a
sense of social responsibility and aware-
ness. It shakes you out of your compla-
cency. You have to reevaluate your priori-
ties. It’s encouraging to do something--to
build a wall--and see that there’s something
I can do that will make a difference.”

ASP has been trying to “do something”
for the people of Appalachia since its
founding in 1969. The program is primarily
oriented toward high school youth groups,

but senior citizens as well as middle-aged
business people and college students have
volunteered.

The project operates twelve centers in
four states and a total of almost 5,000
volunteers from across the country have
repaired 360 homes.

The participants viewed the program as a
worthwhile alternative to normal spring
break activities. Sophomore Ward Bradley
summed up his experience: “I feel like I’ve
grown a lot more than I would have if I’d
gone to the beach.”

OSTE*? ~-
The New Ones
| have arrived.

Good Colors
Come select
yours today.

See the new
Peninsula sportswear
separates.

open 9 a.m. til 5:30 p.m
Apparel for Men and Women =
128 N. Main St.

Downtown Mooresville
664-4711 or 663-3701.

Stop submitting to others and start submitting to
Inside Art!
Davidson's really, really bold journey into the artistic
unknown.

Sy
~~

‘TUX RENTALS } 2
| | Sh} 4
| __, Formals By
Miami Vice ¢ After Six
Raffinati ¢ Bill Blass
Yves Saint Laurent
Lord West

Wide Selection ¢ Low Prices
Hometown Service

Order Early

AL Occasion Shep
Town Square, Cornelius
ba * §92-9129
pe 7 Group discounts available

for fraternities
ki

