Commentaries -

Student comments upon weekday drinking

Trey Harrell

You don’t get something for nothing.
You can’t have freedom for free.
You won't get wise with the sleep still in your eyes,
No matter what your dream might be.
-- from the Rush song
“Something for Nothing”

Sit outside Chambers on a Thursday or Friday morning
sometime and you will see an interesting facet of the
Davidson Experience. It involves partying to all hours the
night before, waking up 15 minutes before classes start,
putting on a baseball cap, shelling out two quarters for a
Mello Yello, and making it to class just in time to initial the
all-important attendance roll. In fact, some Davidson
students have nearly made this type of lifestyle an art-
form. “But hey, who is to criticize them? They made it to
class, and that’s all that matters. They are doing a lot better
than their roommates who are still sleeping off last night’s
buzz and are missing class entirely.

Or are they doing any better? Chances are they aren’t
going to be operating at 100%, or even 70% for that matter.
Instead of having their mind on Calvin and Luther during
the Humes lecture, they may be trying to figure out what
they did between the hours of 12:00 and 3:00 last night.
More and more Davidson students are becoming addicted
to the idea of the weeknight party, and no matter how good
their class attendance, it is having adverse effects on their
full enjoyment of the experiences and. opportunities
Davidson has to offer. Davidson students are cheating
themselves of a $13,000 a year education.

In response to this ever more visible problem on cam-
pus, the school administration is beginning to discuss
possible steps they can take in order to curb these disturb-

ing trends of poor attendance and unsatisfactory perform-
ance. Everyone seems to agree that school restrictions
might be able to improve the situation by reducing the
number of large, house parties during the week, but such
restrictions go against the school’s traditional ideology of
assuming students are responsible enough to successfully
manage their own lives to a significant degree. The school
refuses to baby-sit its students. It doesn’t dictate certain
hours you can’t go into certain dorms. It maintains the
Honor Code and self-scheduled exams, believing that its
high-caliber students will abide by the commandment
“Thou shalt not cheat.” Understandably, the school is
therefore reluctant to hand down a formal mandate limit-
ing the number of weekday parties.

And it shouldn’t ever have to in the first place. We as
Davidson students should indeed have the maturity to
prevent our social activities from being detrimental to our
intellectual.and moral growth. This isn’t to say Patterson
Court should be razed or that Davidson should become a
dry campus. Alcohol on campus isn’t the problem, and
neither are the fraternities; the problem is the party-hard,
four-nights-a-week attitude of all too many students,
whether they do their drinking on the Court or in the
comfort of their own rooms. It’s the changing of these
attitudes that is the only solution to Davidson’s party
problem.

If these attitudes were to change, perhaps all students
could enjoy the complete spectrum of opportunities avail-
able to them which are so important to the full realization
of the Davidson Experience. Perhaps then more people
would begin attending lectures, plays, recitals, 900 Room
events, etc. Perhaps then fraternities would begin to self-
regulate their social calendars to reduce the number of
their weeknight parties. There is a significant portion of
the Davidson community which already realizes the im-
pressive variety of opportunities right here on campus, and
they take full advantage of these opportunities. But there
is another group which is stuck in the sleep, study, and

drink rut, and they do very little else, and especially
emphasize the latter.

You shouldn’t cheat yourself out of the full education
that is available to you, and that someone (by the way) is
dearly paying for. Don’t overlook Patterson Court and
other party-related events because certainly they, too, are
an integral part of what goes on at Davidson. Many of my
best memories here at school are directly associated with
fraternity events. But don’t get yourself so addicted to
partying and drinking that it begins to dictate your life.
Too many people at Davidson sacrifice their studies, their
interests and hobbies, and sometimes even some of their
closest relationships, for drinking. Maybe your grades
won’t drop, and maybe you do still make it to almost all of
your classes, but you are still abandoning the opportunities
available to you. You can make it through the week
without having to get smashed or even having to drink a
few beers for a relaxing buzz. Maybe it'll make the
weekend that much sweeter, and maybe you’ll geta chance
to go hear a speaker, or go see a movie, or just talk to a
friend who you haven’t rapped with (sober) in a while.
Maybe you could even start that history paper that counts
99.9% of your final grade. x

We as Davidson students are faced with the problem
that we have become addicted to weekday partying, and
none of us are any better because of it. Perhaps it won’t
lead to alcoholism, perhaps it won’t hurt your grades, and
perhaps you’ll feel you got your $13,000 worth anyway,
but you’ ll never really know how much you missed. Give
sobriety a chance in the next few weeks, and get involved
in Davidson in some way that you have never tried before.
Go to some Union events. Go see a speaker or performer
in Love Auditorium. Go work on houses with Habitat for
Humanity. You may find out that there’s a los more going
on here than you realized.

Trey Harrell is a junior chemistry major from Ocala, FL

Just whose negative campaign is it anyway?

David L. Host

The prevailing feeling about the 1988 Presidential
campaign, especially in the media, seems to be one of
dissatisfaction with both George Bush and Michael
Dukakis as candidates, as well as one of revulsion at the
negative tone of both campaigns. The same opinions have
surfaced in past campaigns, however, especially in the
cases of 1980 and 1984. Voters supposedly have not voted
“for” a particular candidate, instead voting “against” the
candidate giving the most negative impression. With this
attitude in the electorate, it is no wonder that the main
focus of the 1988 race has centered around exposing the
“negatives” of the oppoSition.

In the past week, the Dukakis campaign has attempted
to turn public antipathy towards negative campaigning to
its advantage through assailing the “fear and smear” as-
pects of the Bush campaign. It feels that it has identified
“racist” elements of the Bush attack on Dukakis’ support

of the Massachusetts prison. furlough program. The
Dukakis campaign implies that the emphasis on the case of
Willie Horton has resulted from) the fact that Horton is
black, rather than from the extent of Horton’s crimes while
on furlough from a Massachusetts prison. Insiead of prov-
ing Dukakis’ point that the Bush campaign holds respon-
sibility for the negative tone of the campaign, while
securing the “high road” for himself, this approach illus-
trates the true source of such a negative tone, while
demonstrating the differences between the negative ap-
proaches of Bush and Dukakis to the campaign.
Scolding another campaign for “smear” tactics while
simultaneously labeling it “racist” points to a level of
hypocrisy in the Dukakis approach.
Dukakis supporters seem to conveniently forget the in-
tense personal attacks that George Bush received at the
Democratic National Convention in Atlanta.
Speakers alternately referred to Bush as a “toothache of a
man,” as a person who “was born on third base and thinks
he hit a triple,” a man “who reminds every woman of her

first husband,” and as “poor George.” Such attacks have
no factual basis. Whom of the authors of these attacks
actually knows George Bush and the values for which he
stands well enough to make such claims about his charac-
ter? As entertaining as they may be, what place do such
attacks have in a:campaign that claims to take the “high
road?” The Dukakis campaign has attempted to label Bush
as a man insensitive to the needs of the average American
because of his privileged birth. What they have ignored is
the extent to which Bush left the advantages of privilege to
pursue his own path to success. They have attempted to
present a caricature of the character of George Bush
according to the populist themes with which the Demo- ©
crats have bludgeoned Republicans over many elections.
When Dukakis claimed in his acceptance speech that the
election is “not about ideology but competence,” he
pledged himself to a campaign centered around personal
issues rather than ideas and issues relevant to the future

See CAMPAIGN, p. 15

Does Davidson really have a problem with its partying?

William T. Scouten

Does Davidson really have a problem with its partying?
And, if so, can this problem be termed a “Davidson
Disease”? »

In the past few weexs much has been said about partying
at Davidson. But, is this all necessary? Partying holds a
distinct place in the social development of any normal
person. In this respect, I think that word “disease” must be
reevaluated. Partying is a natural and important facet of
the maturation process.

Banaras high school to college life is a hard
seachiee ivir Gir aiatket & Seni of ride’ and lation.
Thus, many enter as immature adolescents, having a vague. \

idea of why they are here. Many are rebellious under _

authority; yet, none are ready to be freed from it just yet.
Intellectual interests are meager in many students. Some

lack purpose, so activities have strong appeal. Others are’

as much strangers to themselves as to their environment.
Thus, their senses make most urgent demands for present
gratification; their curiosity impels them to see and to

know the world.

Frances C. Lockwood in his study of The Freshman and
His College writes: The freshman believes that “in order
to know the world, he must wallow in it.” Not only is this
true of freshmen, but it is true for any person in the same
state of development. Thus, the student is invariably
attracted to what is perhaps one of the most popular
activities on campus, drinking.

Henry Weitz writes in his book Behavior Change
Through Guidance that learning is not just rote memoriza-
tion but is acquired through experience. In other words, an
individual must formulate his own lifestyle from his own
——- (successes and nies ak: ths sicoced i in

“ally, and socially. Heath Hardage i in her ticks “A fresh-
man’s perspective of Davidson” sums it up perfectly:

_ ers himself in his own world with his own limitations. If
the student does not confront a situation in which he must
motivate himself, the self is unable to balance the psycho-

_ logical forces of both physical and social environments. In

other words, the student is unable to free himself from his
own illusion of himself and of his environment. He is
unable to truly see his limitations. The student feels, as
Tom Moore writes, that “he’s invincible, he’s immortal.”

To act in a disciplined manner, one must understand the
factors influencing his actions and how he can alter those
factors to procure a desirable change. The stident must
know himself and understand his controlling variables.

The prone ed pergnally met ds ie ierernn bia
nist be doce bi gicet will ena through the facility of

“Achieving the right balance between the social and the

academic aspects of college life may well be a more

challenging task than writing that 30 page typed paper on

astro-physics [sic].” PEE Ten neg Ole
experiences to be dealt with. A

Forced compliance or “straightjacket” ieguistiond about
partying will only postpone the day that the student discov-

morals and values learned from family. are oe
and pushing of social forces is that through ‘which
student really grows.

«The first and second years may be the worst years of
college in terms of partying, for there is a noted decline in

See DRINKING, p. 15
