Thursday, September 22, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN .

News Shorts

N.C. Legislative Intern Programs

Applications for the 14th internship program with the North Carolina General As-
sembly are now available from Dr. Abraham Holtzman in the Department of Political
Science and Public Administration at North Carolina State University.

Juniors and seniors at all North Carolina four-year colleges and universities are
eligible. Fourteen interns will be chosen for the program, which is sponsored by NCSU
and the N.C. General Assembly.

Deadline for the completed application , an official transcript and three letters of
reference is the end of the business day Monday, Oct. 24, 1988.

These materials should be sent or delivered to Holtzman, director of the Legislative
Internship Program, 224 Caldwell Hall, Box 8102, NCSU, Raleigh, NC 27695-8102.

The interns will serve as staff assistants to chairpersons and official
leaders of the N.C. Senate and House of Representatives that meet in 1989.and will
pursue a parallel course of study at NCSU during the spring semester, beginning
January 6, 1989. The General Assembly will convene on January 11.

Each intern will gain 12 semester hours of credit for transfer to his or her college or”
university. Interns will work a minimum of 25 hours each week at the General
Assembly for the approximately 22 weeks of the session. They will be paid $200 week.

Students of history, economic, political science and sociology are invited to apply.

Davidson selected for 14-school

collaborative program in Humanities

Davidson College is one of 14 leading liberal arts colleges in the Southeast
participating in an innovative partnership with Emory University called the Interdis-
- ciplinary Collaborative Program in the Humanities. Supported by a $475,000 grant
from the New York-based Charles A. Dana Foundation, Inc., the program is aifhed at
revitalizing teaching and scholarship in the humanities.

The four-year Collaborative Program in the Humanities will allow faculty from the
14 campuses to complete year-long residential sabbatical fellowships in Emory’s
Graduate Institute of the Liberal Arts. During their residencies, Fellows will participate
in a program of study, research, and new course development which will benefit their
home institutions while also enriching the mix of interdisciplinary perspectives within
the Emory community. c

Robert C. Williams, Vice President for Academic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty
at Davidson, said “This partnership provides exciting opportunities for interaction of
hymanities faculty from liberal art colleges and universities. It particularly provides for
ongoing revitalization of senior faculty members.”
a» the first Fellows, nominated by their institutions, will begin. their residencies at
Emory in fall 1989. During the residencies, the products of the Fellows’ efforts will be
shared through seminars, team-teaching, faculty meetings and student mentorship.
Post-residency information-sharing will be accomplished through annual conferences,
professional societies, and publications.

First Charter Bank endows music series

at Davidson College
The First Charter Bank of Concord, N.C., has committed $50,000 to create a music

endowment honoring the Coltrane family of Concord and its ties to Davidson College.

“In the 100th year of business for First Charter Bank, we were looking for a way in
which to honor the Coltrane family, which has been an integral part of the bank sirice
its founding,” says President and Chief Executive Officer Lawrence Kimbrough ’63.
“Four member of the Coltrane family are Davidson alumni, and we decided that an
ongoing endowment to Davidson College would be a fitting memorial to them.”

The endowment will help support an annul six-concert series slated to begin in the
winter of 1988.

The inaugural c concert is scheduled for December 9i in Love Auditorium. The concert -
will feature pianist Alexander Peskanov, who made his debut with the National Sym-
phony in Washington. Peskanov has recently completed a tour of the United States with
the Polish Philharmonic Chamber Orchestra. He has performed with the Baltimore
Symphony, the St. Louis Symphony and the English Chamber Orchestra in London,
England.

Doctoral Fellowships in biological sciences

The Howard Hughes Medical Institute is awarding 60 fellowships for full-time study
toward a Ph.D. or Sc.D. degree in biological sciences. Awards are for three years, with
an option to extend the fellowship for two additional years. Stipends are $12;300
annually and a $10,700 annual cost-of-education allowance is provided to the fellow-
ship institution on behalf of each fellow.

There are no citizenship requirements, but foreign nationals must study in the United
States.

The application deadline is November 14, 1988. For information and applications,
write Hughes Doctoral Fellowships, The Fellowship Office, National Research Coun-
cil, 2101 Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20418.

Free 11:00 hour offers variety of speakers, programs

Semester scheduling made it possible to leave the hour from 11:00 a.m.to 12:00 p.m.
free for all students. There are no classes scheduled during this time. __

The College sponsors a variety of programs for the hour. Tuesday is primarily
devoted to some sort of worship service. Participants in this service include eat and

staff members and students.

Thursday has been reserved for speakers, panel discussions, open Fenian and other
activities.

The schedule and locations for the events of the next four weeks are as follows.

Thursday, September 22: Campus forum on parties at Davidson. The Gallery.

Tuesday, September 27: Worship led by Tripp Helms and members of ihe, Stapel
Committee. The Gallery.

Thursday, September 29:- - Reception for new faculty sponsored by the Women’ s
Concerns committee. Front of Chambers; in case of rain, Baxter Davidson Room,
Chambers.

Tuesday, October 4: Worship led by Dr. Jack Perry. Topic: The Christian
Encounters World Affairs. The Gallery.

Thursday, October 6: Panel: 1988 Election- Domestic Issues. Panelists: Professors ‘
Clark Ross, Peter Hess, Tom Kazee, John Haskell. The Gallery.

Tuesday, October 11: Worship - Holy Communion. The Gallery.

Freshman current events test results back

them to read or be concerned
about the news. But he added that

the freshmen coulef not identify
the country ruled by the Sandinis-

the data has been compiled. The
result: this year’s freshman ¢lass
is justa little more knowledgeable
in the area of current events than
the class of ’89.

This year, like the seven years
before, the freshmen took a cur-
rent events test during orienta-

tion.* The test was administered-

by Dr. Hansford Epes, a member
of the International Education
Committee.

The test is divided into two
parts: the current events section

and the map section. Each student -

received two grades on a scale of
0 to. 100. One grade is for the total
of the two parts and the other
includes just the map section.
Out of a sample of 343 people,
the average freshman score is 54
for the combined parts and 58 for
the map part. This can be com-
pared to scores of 51 and 57.5,
respectively, for the class of ’89.
Thus, the testis either getting
easier or the freshman are getting

o
v By DAVID BEARCE smarter.
There is some reason to sug-
The tests have been graded and gest, however, that the test is get-

ting easier. Dr. Epes stated that he

- changed five questions, “about 15
to 20 percent of the test,” but he -

“deliberately used the same
map.” As a result, a comparison
between the scores of different
classes is not very useful or accu-
rate.

This year’ s scores ranged from
10 to 98 for the combined parts
and from 0 to 100 for the map.

The lowest score ever at Davidson.

College isa6. Only one student in
the seven years that the test has
been given at Davidson has ever
achieved a perfect 100 on both
parts.

Males have a tendency to do
much better than females on the
current events test. The average
male score is 59 compared to 47
for the females. Dr. Epes stated
that this “range has been consis-
tent” throughout the years. .

Epes hypothesized that there is
perhaps a “cultural conditioning
of women” that down not push

“source of the best students in
International Studies [at
Davidson] are women.”

Epes remarked that the “knowl-
edge of the map is getting better.”
Even though the scores may not
indicate a big improvement, he
cited that there were less “off-the-
wall answers.” “Schools are
pushing more geography and we

are beginning to see the results,”

Epes concluded.
However, many “off-the-wall”

responses were reported. A

“whole lot of people” thought

China and the USSR are part of

NATO, stated Dr. Epes. . Pearl

Harbor was identified as being in .

California. Bolivia showed up in
Africa. South Africa was placed
in South America. One student
even wrote that Hiroshima was
bombed in 1847.

But Epes noticed some even

more disturbing trends. Only -

30% of the freshmen were able to
identify George Schultz as the
Secretary of State. One third of

tas. The population of the United
States was listed anywhere be-
tween one million and several
billion. .

This demonstrates a reason for

‘concem, according to Dr. Epes.

“Faculty members take for
granted”? that students “can read,
write, and cipher, but that. as--
sumption may be invalid” for our
generation.

But Epes wanted to ‘seanficce
the position aspect of the test re-
sults. It was “not an easy test,”

and included “open-ended ques-

tions” with “no multiple-choice
responses.” “Given the con-
Straints,” Epes was surprised that

, the results were not worse, but

disappointed that they were not

‘better.

Freshmen will get back their
tests in late October. “There-will-
be a team coming to each fresh-
man hall to discuss the results and
suggest ways to improve interna-
tional awareness at Davidson
College.

