S eo eC A rT . The Davidsonian |

Monday, April 18, 1988

) Resurrection of the Oyster Queen

She who is not of your world, .
But of the grooved shell and ocean mist,
Came unbidden, borne by the sea-breeZe brine.

Salted She was with blue;
\ Oystered pools were her eyes.
y Emergent then,
From froth and blood and water,
Ancient upon ancient,
Leagues upon leagues.
While violet faced fishes—
y Purple squibbed acolytes,
ler Bent their gilted reverant mouths,
. } And strained their silvered voices in song.
AY
™ But at this moment and at this your time,
All is overflowing and again becoming.
As.when Abraxas did break forth unadomed,
Thin yellow tapestry were his wings,
wen ‘ Stunning alive and braded feathered beak,
. ’
ns l- “Lucy Siler ‘91 And stained silver fangs.
An age rolls forth anew
Us Within the palms of the resurrected Oyster queen.
She commands the names of night—
“Moriel, Tempast, Pazuzu
In one fleeting moment everything was fine The Cthonic one will once again bend in supplication,
But the time soon returns all the pain Against the gelid blasts.
As if once closed wounds are open again
Blood fills the rivers of the mind How they hunch now in the auburn dusk,
And silver quivers the depths of the heart At ocean side singing to the risen She.
While the nerves overflow withe signals
enone oe
Ralph died. Narrow, tunnel-visianed dreams abound -John Morton Gillikin 89
latives still All but tumed into nightmares
As if cursed by American Prayer
I by ‘0 pay Words are the stitches of an emotional physician
alph's d eath. - But also the blade'of a bleeding heart's knife
he terrible A twin.to the knife that cuts directly through my spine
nd when he At first, leading on by the bridal of the horse life explained for my
ise oftento It's all alright and sounds just fine mother :
their new ~~ The mind bording on the edges of ecstacy and insanity |
sof Info an Time reveals the lies and the falsehoods
My heart striken down by trickery
» every Is there some sick amusement derived through my suffering?
rth Carolina
. Neither she I was willing to open the holding cells of my soul
You just slam them all back shut without care
And not even a second thought about the pain you're. causing
Life is drifting away like a blood-filled cloud
Travelling towards the edges of shadows in the dark
9] A silhouette in the night; dust in the wind

Life Explained For My Mother

t
Pt. \
