Features

BoDeans fill Johnston gym wit

‘spirited, heartfelt music”

After two albums and rave reviews in the national media, a Wisconsin band finally makes sod

By MATT TERRELL
The BoDeans have a sound
which many have found hard to
describe. The group can excite
audiences with their energy and
then amaze them with outstanding

acoustic guitar work and a great -

vocal blend. Following therelease
of the BoDeans’ debut album,
Love, Hope, Sex & Dreams, Jay
Cocks of Time took a chance and
wrote in the June 9, 1986 issue:
“The BoDeans don’t have to
worry about their threads. They
already have so much spirit that
with a couple of years, another
album and a few more tours,
BoDean rock ‘n’ roll may become
a.generic term.”

There is now a second album,,

Outside Looking In, and another
tour and BoDean rock ‘n’ roll is
gaining fans all over North Amer-
ica.

This three member band out of
Waukesha, Wisconsin has pro-
duced some of the most heartfelt
music made today. With Sammy
Llanas on acoustic guitar and
vocals, Kurt Neumann on electric
guitar and vocals, and Bob Griffin
playing bass guitar and adding
vocals, the BoDeans present an
exciting brand of music which can
only be described as their own.

Neumann, when asked by Re-
prise Records, the band’s record-

BoDeans sound a success, an-

swered, “We’re aband about good.

songs and good singing. Our
voices together is one of the big-
gest parts of the band. What we

The BoDeans play at Johnston Gym on weanesaay.

or 12 songs, and have them all
sound good and work well to-
gether.”

The BoDeans have made it
clear that their music will not be

what the Union promises to be a
great Spring Frolics weekend, the
BoDeans bring their innovative
rock ‘n’ roll to Davidson’s own
Johnston Gym for an 8 PM con-

mNMT ii

Mike Russ

Tickets are available for $3 in
advance. Prices go up to $5 at the
door for students and $8 for every-
one else. Don’t miss the show that
made the concert schedule in

ing » agent; «what makes. the

Confidential Health

“shoot for on a record is to have 10

denied.:As ‘an’ early kick-off to

cert, Wednesday, April 13th.

Rolling Stone!

College concerns about mononucleosis, “the kissing disease”

Dear Confidential Health:

I have a girlfriend who is a freshman at
UNCC. We see a lot of each other and have
become quite close. Over Spring Break her
doctor told her she has mono. Now what
should I do?

—Kissed by a Freshman

Dear Fresh-ly Kissed:

Move over, and make room for all your
fellow concerneds! We spoke with our
friends at The Davidson Clinic and learned
that, as the peak season for your girlfriend’s
illness winds down, yours has not been the
only concern.

Infectious mononucleosis, or mono, is a
disease caused by the Epstein-Barr virus
(EBV). It occurs primarily in adolescents
and young adults (alas, college students!)
The virus is not very contagious. Itis spread
by droplet contact from the mouth and
throat of an infected person, like kissing--
thus its popular nickname, “the kissing
disease!”

The period between the time of exposure
and the development of symptoms (the
incubation period) varies widely, with 40
days as average. The period of communica-
bility is uncertain, since the source and time
of contact are usually unknown, but is
probably only during the actual acute ill-
ness, Ninety percent of all people over age
30 have developed antibodies to the EBV.

The illness is generally not severe. It
begins gradually with mild symptoms of
headache and fatigue. Fever rises and may
persist for 1-3 weeks. Sore throat with
large, red tonsils and “white spots” occurs
by the end of the first week. Swollen glands
in theneck and alarge, sore spleen are com-
mon. About 10% will develop a spotty red
rash on their trunk, arms, and legs. Most
people recover in 2-4 weeks, although

weakness and fatigue may hang on for'
several weeks. Isolating the ill person is not
necessary.

Students with symptoms or a known
exposure, like yourself, should be evalu-
ated for mono. A throat culture can be done
to test for Strep throat. A simple finger prick
for a rapid slide blood test, calléd a Mono-
spot, will usually be positive if you have
mono. You may have your blood drawn to
look for white blood cell change and liver
problems or EBV antibodies which are
present with the onset of symptoms and

usually persist ein,

The “cure” for mono isa tincture of time.
The treatment is purely symptomatic. Fe-
ver is controlled with Tylenol. Gargling
with warm salt water will soothe a sore
throat. Plenty of liquids—water, tea, juices,
soda pop, Gatorade, soup broth—are rec-
ommended. Bed rest, according to the
degree of illness, is advised. Activity is
limited to prevent exhaustion. Heavy lift-
ing, contact sports, and strenuous activity

should be avoided for 6 weeks for the

spleen’s sake! Social contact may resume

after the acute symptoms have passed.

Theoretically, you can only have one
case of true mono. Once. mono has been
diagnosed with a positive blood test, you
cannot “catch it” again. Once the diagnosis
has been made, your doctor will probably
want to check on you every week until you
have fully recovered.

Before you spend any time or energy on
needless worry, jog over to the College

See HEALTH, page 5

Film Frolix

By TIMOTHY JACKS
and SCOT MYERS

If you’re one of the many adults who
casually dismiss Disney films as animated
romps for children, guess again. True to
Disney fashion, Lady and the Tramp is as
entrancing to adults as it is to children,
| perhaps more so.

It doesn’t take as much work to create a
fantasy world for children as it does for
adults, yet Disney spares no detail in cre-
ating just such a world for a viewer of any
age. Every scene is finished to excruciat-
ing perfection. Every character is fleshed
out in amazing detail. Every motion is
animated with such precision that the film
comes to life, oftentimes even better.

Set in Victorian-era America, the time
period allows for long, flowing skirts,
horse-drawn carriages, gas-lit street
lamps; all flawlessly animated to become
“realer than real”. That is, the drapes
flutter, not necessarily as drapes actually
do, but the way we feel they should.

Disney’s Lady and the Tramp is no dog!

Into this incredible mise-en-scéne comes
a retinue of equally incredible characters.
When “Jim-dear” gives “Darling” a puppy
cocker spaniel for Christmas, we are in fact
given a gift. We are invited, no, drawn into
their lives for the span of two years. During
that time, we see “Lady” mature from her
disgustingly cute puppy phase into, quite
literally, her namesake. Her idyllic domes-
tic life is abruptly changed when J im-dear
and Darling have a baby.

Through a series of events, Lady finds
herself rudely cast out into the streets when
Jim-dear and Darling leave’town for the
weekend and “Aunt Sarah” arrives with her
Creepy, Atrocious, Terrorizing, Siameses.
But when she meets the “Tramp,” she sees
that there’s a whole other side to a dog’s

- life. So do we.

Lady’s night in the pound is one of the
most stirring scenes of the film, while at the
same time it highlight what makes this film
so special. In a very short time, we are in-
troduced to a dozen jailed canines, every

one of which has a perfectly defined char-
acter, even the ones seen for only a few
seconds. (See how much you can infer
about poor “Klutsy” just by looking at his
shadow!).

Like almost every other Disney ani-
mated film, Lady and the Tramp is a
landmark. Most modern cartoon movies
feature inane, candy-coated, blue. gro-
tesqueries; or overstuffed, namby-pamby
teddy bears; or transforming ghetto-blas-
ters that become aircraft carriers while
brainwashing kids with mind-numbing
commercialism. As with all his films,
Disney has offered us a fine animated
feature whose chief aim is to educate (and
not just children) even while entertaining.

When we see Lady and the Tramp we
gain a whole new perspective, oddly
enough not into a dog’s world, but our
own. Showing in the 900 Room on Friday,
April 15 at9p.m., Walt Disney’sLadyand
the Tramp is another small bit of magic
performed by the master of them all.

