Features

Charlotte Flix

Hope and Glory: A gem amidst the shrapnel of WWIL

By BRUCE PLOURDE

London, 1939. It was a mild
Sunday afternoon. Men mowed
their gardens, children played,
women sat indoors and listened to
the radio. The only event that
could have marred such a beauti-
ful day would have been a war.
When the announcement came
over the wireless, the mowers, as
if by orchestration, all stopped at
once, and all the families on Rose-
hill Avenue huddled together: in
their parlors to hear the prime
minister recount his ultimatum.
Britain had declared war against
Nazi Germany, then stood back in
anxious anticipation to watch the
enemy’s reaction. The children
ran outside expecting to see Ger-
man bombers at any minute, but
ngne came that day. Eventually a
few mowers started up again, and
the day passed, beautiful as ever,
yet ruined beyond repair by the
threat of a second world war.

What a horribly dismal pros-

pect for a movie. Hope and Glory
does have characteristics which
would seem to come directly out
of Eliot’s The Wasteland. Yet,
despite its depiction of the de-
struction, strife and turbulence
wrought by war, Hope and Glory
nonetheless reaffirms that old
values, like love and friendship,
trust and faith, hope and glory, do
not perish with the city or its in-
habitants.

In fact, the film does not dwell
on the pains of war at all, but
concentrates on the unique sort of
happiness which came of living in
that time, as if A.A. Milne
dropped Winnie the Pooh for a

Students help with “wonderful Wednesdays”

brief interlude to relate the inci-
dents of Christopher Robin in
1939. Perhaps it is narrowminded
tosee WW Il asachanceto collect
shrapnel, or camp out in a bomb
shelter, or even date Canadian
soldiers. Yet for the people of
England life during their second
big war meant only less of the
same. Life went on as British as
ever. The rationing and the bomb-
ing changed the daily schedule, to
be sure, but everybody managed
their inconveniences and still
found time to enjoy themselves.
Otherwise the ominous face of
the war might have scared them
out of all sense. Getting around the
new problems was sort of like
throwing agoogley. A googley, as
every good cricket player knows,
is a throw which twists in such a
way as to put the batter off his
guard, and sneaks by to knock the
pinsoffhis stakes. Once mastered,
victory was assured to the pitcher.

The people of London had their _

own googleys to master, not just to
survive but to live.

Billy (Sebastian Rice Ed-
wards), has mastered both, as have
all his mates. War for them means
new playgrounds found in
bombed houses, collections of
weapon paraphernalia, and the
chance to frolic and beleaguer
their teachers during air raids

while wearing flatulent-sounding |

gas masks. But Billy’s buddies
would have done pretty much the
same had the war never arrived in
their boyish boroughs. The war
serves merely to heighten the
pleasure of their fun and tighten
the bonds of comradery.

For the rest of the family, too,
the joy of living has only changed
shape. For father Clyve (David
Hayman) it is a freshly captured
can of German jelly. Mother
Grace (Sarah Miles) finds great
mirth in watching the decrepit
bobbies of London, with high
trepidation, take a fallen German
pilotas a prisoner of war. Younger
sister Sue lets it all fly over her
innocent darling head, while older
sister Dawn takes pleasure in a
captain named Bruce. One gets
the impression that this entire,
quaint family of Rosehill Avenue
would follow similar pursuits as
well, as became their character.

Inall Hope andGlory shows the

domestic side of war. While pilots
dogfight overhead and soldiers
dig trenches on the continent, the
women and children maintain as
much tranquility on the home
front as possible. At the near end
of the film, then, when Billy’s
crazy grandfather boasts, “The
law of life cruel, isn’t it?” his
comment evokes genial laughter
in the audience and his father, who
has just got caught looking at the
sorry end of Billy’s googley.
Perhaps the best way to illus-
trate the traumatic times of the
war is just as John Boorman has
done, .to pick out. the brighter
moments and follow them
through, while hints of dark hor-

rors sneak in at the sides. Concen-
trating on one boy’s observances
of his family and friends, Boor-
man gives a genuine and intimate
feel for the era. Unlike that mega-
lomaniac Speilberg, who
produced Empire of the Sun,
Boorman does not fill his effort
with unnecessarily burdensome
and profound symbolism, nor
does he dwell on the sentimental
and sappy. Rather, he tells an
honest tale, rife with reality,
which nonetheless affects the
sensibilities. A precious little gem
if ever there was one, Hope and
Glory proves without reservation
or regret that not everything that
comes of war is bad.

Hope and Glory stars (from left) Sammi Davis, David Hayman, Sebastian Rice-Edwards (front), and

Geraldine Muir.

at Seigle Ave.

By MARGARET CARROLL

Every Wednesday night Davidson stu-
dents volunteer to help with the Wonderful
Wednesday program at Seigle Avenue
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Charlie
Summer, minister at Seigle Avenue (and
Davidson’s former chaplain) organizes the
program.

“Wonderful Wednesdays,” as the pro-
gram is affectionately called, consist of
children’s Bible study hour while the adults
have choir, a dinner for everyone, and then
children’s choir while the adults have Bible
study. The Davidson students help with the
children’s activities and also help in the
kitchen when needed.

Sophomore Jay Clugston claims, “The
interaction between us [the volunteers and
the kids] is the most worthwhile result.”

Students who have participated in the
program are Tindal Davis, Molly Graver,
Vera Misra, David Scott, Ford Shippey, Jay
Clugston, Alice Shuffield, and Lisa Ger-
rard. When asked how they got involved
with the program, several students replied
that after working at Seigle Avenue during
Awareness Weekend they wanted to con-
tinue to volunteer there. Others heard about
the program through friends who were
working at the church.

Freshman Tindal Davis says, “They’re
accomplishing a lot there,” referring to the
various programs at Seigle Avenue.

Along with the Wonderful Wednesday
program, the church has after school tutor-
ing programs for elementary and youth
groups (junior high and high school age).
The elementary group includes tutoring,
Bible study, and recreation, while the older
youth session is divided into tutoring, per-
sonal counseling, and field trips. Both
groups meet after school four days a week,
and volunteers come from Seigle Avenue
Church and other churches in Charlotte to
help.

The girls’ club was also started two years
ago and meets every Tuesday night to dis-
cuss human sexuality and self-esteem. One |
area of concern which the club has been
successfully dealing with is the prevention
of teenage pregnancies, a growing problem

- inlow income areas according to statistics.

aed

The boys’ club also meets on Tuesday }
nights and consists of recreation and field
trips related to vocational interests. For

example, the group recently visited several |

successful black businessmen in the area.

One of the newest and probably most
needed programs at Seigle Avenue is the
Mothers’ Cooperative Preschool program.

It consists of 34 five-year-olds and is de- |

signed to help mothers in low income
families learn about parenting while at the

same time help the preschoolers get the.

background they need before entering kin-
dergarten.

This Saturday more Davidson students
(some Kappa Sigmas) are helping at Seigle
Avenue. Opportunities exist to assist with
any of the massive scope of programs.
Although the Wonderful Wednesday pro-
gram just finished for this school year,

Seigle Avenue always welcomes volun-
teers.

All of the Davidson volunteers agree that
helping out at Seigle Avenue is rewarding
not only because it is fun, but also because
they are bringing happiness to the kids.

Get motivated & shape up this Spring

Dear Confidential: Health,

With spring here, I feel so out of shape.
| Do you have any advice for an exercise plan
that I can carry out over the summer?

Fitness does not happen quickly, but the
day you begin to exercise you will feel

better. No matter what type of exercise cise:

"which can be achieved Meiners ad

There are three key components which
should be incorporated into any s 10
exercise program. The firstis flexibility,

| program you choosé, the most i important
factor is that it be something you enjoy. —

Every type of exercise should be hard
work.for you physically, but if jogging is
boring to you, explore other activities such ‘3

as swimming or aerobics. If it is an activity

you enjoy, then hopefully you will develop

a regular routine. :

Now that you are motivated to start an
exercise program, you may establisha good
routine so it will be easy to maintain in the
fall. High stress times are really when you
need exercise the most, so make it a life
long habit and chances are you'll live
longer.

includes all three components,

To get the maximum benefit, you
should exercise at least four times a week
or every other day. The amount of time

See SHAPE, page 8

