Thursday, September 8, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Women’s volleyball
defeats Winthrop
from 14-3 deficit

By MARY FAITH MOUNT
and CHANDLER SHEPPARD

It is 11:30 on a Monday night, and she
just got-hhome from a long trip. After five
games, she is too tired to do all that reading
and studying for tomorrow’s classes, She
made time. for that before leaving at 4:00
for her away volleyball game. ‘Yes, this is
the, hectic schedule of a dedicated
‘Davidson volleyball player. .

ber 5, as the volleyball team defeated
Winthrop College in a best-of-five-games
match. After being down 14-2 in the third
game, the team came back to win the game
16-14. The final match score was 15-3, 8-
15, 16-14, 12-15, 15-12.

Leading the Wildcats were sophomores
Molly Graver and Ellen:Ott, senior Maria
Douglas, junior Tami Beckham, and fresh-
man Holt Hathaway.

The team’s optimism is sparked largely
by the zeal of the freshman players. Senior
Maria Douglas, team captain, comments,
“The freshmen give us intensity that we

lacked last year. They’re young. They’re
hungry. They want to win and it’s kind of
contagious.”

,A four-year player, Douglas has seen the
sport go from a club sport to facing tough
Southern Conference opponents the last
two years. The team has won only ten
games in the last two years, but without the
Sothern Conference schedule this year

, with the energy of the freshmen, the vay is
This devotion paid off Monday, Septem-

looking to a bright future.

This weekend the Wildcats will face
teams from East Carolina, UNC-Chapel
Hill, and UNC-Wilmington at a tourna-
mentin Chapel Hill. Then on Tuesday they
will travel to’ Greensboro to take on
Guilford College. The home opener will
consists of a three-game round-robin with
Augusta College (GA) and Winthrop, be-
ginning at 4:30.

Rebecca Hawkins, in her second year as
the Davidson coach, encourages everyone
to come out and support the Wildcats.
According to Hawkins, “Winthrop will be
looking for revenge.”

34. {

Soccer: Davidson 1, Richmond _1;

3, Winthrop 0.

Field Hockey : Davidson I, Pfeiffer 0
Trivia:

When did the Davidson Wildcats last
win a football season opener?

From what city did the Phoenix Cardi-
nals move?

\

E S Sh :
By ROBERT GRUBB -The move to Phoenix is the second in
and CHARLES i iuaenaieren the Cardinals history. Where did the
Scoreboard Cardinals originally play?
Football: Davidson 16, Pieshjiecien Volleyball roster:

Davidson” 4; ‘Western’ Kentucky © 2;’

Davidson 3, Memphis State 5; Davidson’ ’- Virginia Edington, Fr., Mobile, AL
- Holt Hathaway, Fr., Charlotte; NC

'* Christy Knight, Fr., Charlotte, NC

Tami Beckham, Jr., Fayetteville, NC
Lavetta Dawkins, Sr., Charlotte, NC
Maria Douglas, Sr., N. Charleston, SC .

Molly Graver, So., Overland Park, KS
Ellen Ott, So., Evansville, IN |

Michelle Plauche, Fr., Evanston, IL
Catherine Robb, Fr., Raleigh, NC

“college players and coaches. The
‘clubs did, however, make for some

ce0"” thal thé team iw tot fester thian fast

y year’s, ha more depth, and pro- _-

vides “a spark that hasn’ theenthere _

- before... She promised “no mir-

acles,” but she hopes to have
A owiiodh to win — ih te this.

°

BRYANT, from page 8

Peggy Tietgen, Jr., Haneoye Falls, NY (

Additionally, Kuykendall looks with
optimism on the completion of the sports
facility. He indicated that new sports may
have an opportunity to begin (e.g. swim-
ming), as well as pointing out the potential
for better intramural om intercollegiate fa-
cilities.

__ Nevertheless, he anticipates “some fairly
serious and extended conversation within
the campus” about athletic policy.
Kuykendall’s charge to the Davidson
community is “to take seriously the tradi-

EMERGENCY!

call

ER

Davidson
Emergency

Rescue
Service

tion of the college and to weigh things in
the balance in ‘making a successful judg-
ment.”

It is the task of these “Around the Horn”

interviews to facilitate these judgments by
airing as many views as possible on the
subject.
[NOTE: The exchision of the faculty in
last week’s column was an oversight, not
intended to offend any members of that
particular aspect of the campus. Hope-
fully, faculty interests will be addressed in
future columns. The-author/editor regrets
any discomfort caused faculty members by
their omission.]

“The Davidson Emergency Rescue Service is a student organization
‘operating 24 hours per day, every day during the school year. We
are staffed and operated by state-certified Emergency Medical.

Technicians. No emergency is too big or small

ee hea

sy PReiey

