, ~ nes — ‘2,
'--Anonymous

On First Seeing
Leonardo’s Virgin

I stand outside the moment’s

Hushed mighty wonder--

Ether blue beauty bend your head but
A half breath

Brush stalled somewhere, stilled and wombed
In morning’s Grotto hole, crag staggard.
Look not upon my mortal eyes with
‘Those mist pooled pearl shutters laced

In Shadow--

Pine or purse those amber lips--

Speak not! .

But keep in vice - steel my lungs and
Furnace blaze my nerves,

Sweep my sights in vortex rapture round;
Wring me like a wetted rag

All limp to bathe the angel’s face.

Freeze me in the final still

__Of perfection’s picture-show.

--John M. Gillikin, °89

Graffiti Bc

Andif| Hy
show you my dark side
Will you stillhold me,
tonight?

Andif|
open my heart to you
show you my weak side,

What would you do?

» ensue. When my pencil emerges, it is a gnawed-on bone,

Experiencing Te
Please

Unlike some people, I cannot claim that my most signifi-
cant achievement was overcoming dyslexia, making the
winning last-second free throw in a championship basket-
ball game, or being stranded on a desert island: with no
aspirin that two-out of three doctors prefer. Rather, my
greatest achievement is maintaining my sanity despite the
torments of various machines. Now I'll admit there are
some machines I couldn’t live without contact lens boilers

—— Pe a= SS ee =— =f,

“ana ‘curling ifdris, for example. ‘An “alarming number Ot
machines however, seem to delight in tormenting me ina
variety of ways. They irritate, frustrate, and embarrass me,
destroying not only my sanity and'self-confidence; but my
pencils and tapes as well. Fighting arising tide of paranoia,
I will describe their vicious, insidious onslaught upon my
mental health.

Take the pencil sharpener. Harmless; you say? From
bitter experience I’ve learned many an innocent-looking
machine is actually a diabolically clever device. Although
simple, the sharpener is not altogether stupid. It cannily
times its most damaging performance to occur at crucial .
moments, like right before a test. Once my pencil trem-
blingly enters that gaping, black hole, it’s as good as gone.
Ravenously, the sharpener seizes its prey with its mighty
metal jaws, spewing sawdust like flecks of,foam from a
salivating beast. Agonizing sounds of rending and tearing

and any attempts to write with it are (pardon the pun)
pointless. The only thing lacking from this performance is
that I’ve not yet heard a pencil sharpener belch in content-
ment but I’m still waiting.

Aside from pencil sharpeners, a multitude of other
machines plague me as well. I especially loathe turnstiles.
Although I am nota particularly large person, I am usually
assaulted by a revolving rain of blows from their steel
tentacles. On the rare occasions that I escape this metal c
octopus unscathed, I am literally jerked back to reality uj
~when the turnstile hooks my purse strap. Feeling like ak
clod, I furtively glance around to see if anyone saw my it]

: Cc

