Thursday, September 22, 1988 THE BAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

National News

- By ED POWELL

_ Politics ,
Looking at the number two slot of
the national campaigns, G.O.P. Vice-
' Presidential nominee Dan Quayle has
visited 27 states over the course of the
last month in an attempt to make him-
self and his positions more familiar to
the voters. Senator Quayle said, ““They

(the american people) do not know

Dan Quayle, they know the name;

they’re trying to fill in the blanks.”

Over the course of his month-long
campaigning, Senator Quayle has
been warmly received by crowds of
/ supporters in most states, but has occa-
sionally had to confront small groups
of protestors at a few of his public ap-
pearances. Foremost among these
have been small bands of Vietnam
veterans who are angered. over
Quayle’s enlistment in ‘the Indiana
National Guard during the Vietnam
war.

. Democratic nominee, Senator
Lloyd Bentsen, has also been on the
trail: and visited Greenville, North
Carolina just last week. In an effort to
cover ground that is foreign to: Presi-
dential nominee Michael Dukakis,
namely the more conservative South,
Bentsen claimed that he spoke three
languages; English, Spanish, “and
Southern.”

The choice of Bentsen for the Vice
Presidential slot was aimed at drawing
some of the more moderate Demo-
crats, the so called “Reagan Demo-
crats,” back to the party mainstream.

Thus, Bentsen has been campaigning
in the South, drumming up support for

might otherwise be unable to secure.
In order to win the Presidential elec-
~ tion, a candidate must win 270 of the
possible 538 Electoral College votes.
Each state has as many electoral votes
as it has House representatives, with
states such as California (47), New
York (36), and Texas (29) carrying the
most influential electoral weight.

the Democratic ticket that Dukakis.

Geographically, it appears that the
G.O.P, has an edge on the Democrats as
their strong base in the South and in the
West has-put them ahead in 27 of the 50
states, but in some of the big Electoral
College states, such as Pennsylvania, Ohio,
and the three mentioned above, the G.O.P.
is either even or behind. The Republican
ticket could realistically win 35 of the
states and still lose the election unless it
wins a few of these bigger Electoral Col-
lege states.

In North Carolina, it appears that incum-
bent Republican Governor Jim Martin has
a slight lead in the race for Governor. A
recent Charlotte Observer poll indicated.
that Martin led Democratic candidate, Lt.
Governor Bob Jordan by a 51% to 43%
margin.

The poll, conducted by phone between
September 1 1-14 found Jordan ahead in the
typically Democratic eastern half of the
state, but trailing in the more populous
Piedmont area. Also, Bush supporters
seemed more loyal to Martin than did
Dukakis supporters to Jordan. :

Gun Control

The National Rifle Association (NRA),
won a major lobbying battle last week as
the House failed to ratify an amendment
that would have required a seven day wait-
ing period for potential gun buyers to pur-
chase guns. The NRA spent an estimated
1.7 million dollars and made about 10
million mailings to combat the amendment
which was soundly remy by a 228-182
margin.

Of the 228 nip iiplahdgsileithamneind:
ment, the NRA poured over 1.1 million
dollars into their campaigns over the
course of the last three election years, for—
an average of $5,122 per member. Con-
versely, the 182 who voted for the amend-
ment received only $831 per member.

In other handgun control developments,
syndicated columnist Carl Rowan’s bid.to
have the charges of unlawful possession of
a gun against him dropped was rejected by
a D.C. Superior Court Judge. Earlier this
summer, Rowan shot an 19 year-old subur-

i

ban Maryland boy in the hand when he
caught the boy trespassing his pool.
Rowan claimed that he had triéd to prop-
erly register his handgun, but was told by
D.C. officials that he did not need to regis-
ter it since the gun belonged to his son, a
former F.B.I. agent. Judge Arthur Burnett,
Sr. said that “these are questions of credi-
bility more appropriately resolved by ajury

at trial then by this court,” so Rowan’s case |

goes to court Thursday.

Space Shuttle
"*N.A.S.A, announced last week that the
space shuttle Discovery is set to launch on
September 29. The target launch date was
finalized after much deliberation and re-
view of the redesigned shuttle. Liftoff has
been set for 9:59 A.M. and the countdown
will begin on September 26.

Since the Challenger disaster over 32

International News

By BETH DRUMMOND
¢ Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev an-
nounced that the Soviet Union would give
up a key naval base in Vietnam if the
United States would withdraw from. its
military bases in the Philippines. The U.S.
has six bases in the Philippines, two of
which are the largest military installations
outside the U.S. Gorbachev’s proposals
follow recent overtures made toward Asia
involving freezes in nuclear weapons .de-
ployment and joint Sino-Russian security

¢ Lt. Gen. Prosper Avril, a career military |

officer, declared himself President of Hati

in a bloody palace coup which ousted mili- _

tary leader Henri Namphy. Saturday’s
coup ended the 31 month Namphy regime,
aperiod characterized by repeated political
killings. Avril has pledged his government
will respect human-rights and encourage

national unity. Avril is the fifth president.

in the past two years to lead the troubled

months ago, over 200 changes have
been made in the shuttle’s design.
The most critical of these adjustments
involved the solid rocket booster,
where improperly sealed O-rings led
to the leak of hot gase$ and subsequent
explosion of the ill-fated Challenger.

Weather

Brownsville, Texas was well pre-
pared for the fury of Hurricane Gilbert
this past weekend, but the hurricane
never struck. The hurricane contin-
ued on its westward journey crippling
Mexico and never travelling far
enough north into Texas to hit it with
its full force. Nevertheless, the Texas
coast towns suffered enough damage
from the 41 offshoot tornadoes to cost
them at least 35 million dollars in
losses.

Hatian state.
¢ Speaking of revolutions, the mili-
tary seized control of Burma in a
coup which resulted in the death of
at least 150 people so far. Soldiers
reportedly open fired on civilian
mobs gathered in Rangoon - the
~ capital and several surronding prov-
inces. The U.S. has urged Burmese
military authorities to end their pol-
icy of violence towards anti-martial
law demonstators; however the un-
Test is expected to continue.
¢ Elsewhere in the world, the leftist
Nicaraguan Government met with
U.S. backed contra-rebels for the
first time in three months. The
meeting was initiated as a step to-
wards resuming the high level peace
talks which collapsed June 3. De-
spite negatiation efforts, both sides
remain sharply divided on ways to
end the country’s 7 year civil war.

hecbs and Ridinching Wear

We'll Pick Up Your Repair Work. Call:

Bookbags

663-8812

Located only six miles away: 170 N. Main St. Mooresville

