13

Thursday, October 27, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Tripp Helms, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor . John Wightman, Business Manager
. Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Cristin Williams, Production Editor
a

Football

The trustees covered a lot of ground in their last meeting, but in one area
they decided to put off discussion or judgement until their next meeting at
least. The issue is the future of Davidson’s football team. That it is on their
agenda at all is significant; years of virtually standing in place while racking
up losses may come to an end soon.

Davidson’s football team has not been good by any measure in recent
history, but it seems to have dropped to an all-time low. We couldn’t beat
Southern Conference opponents, so we sacrificed the interests of all our
other sports to send football over to the Colonial League, where we can’t
win, either. Even Division III opponents such as Fordham are beating us
decisively. We may have to wait for a win until we can spoil Wofford’s
Homecoming again. It seems that Division I is out of our league for good.

Collegiate football has, sadly enough, become a very professional venture

up and down the ranks, and a school with limited manpower such a as Ours
cannot hope to keep up.

Something has to be done, but what? What it boils down to is a decision
about where this college is going. Are we going to chase the brass ring of
national recognition? Or are we going to go after the more elusive goal of
athletic success in football?

The number of players needed and the time in practice that a quality team
would require makes both football success and academic success impos-

sible. They cannot coexist in a school this size under the present condition . >

of collegiate sports. The admissions office has been able to assemble good
groups of athletes with minimal stress on admissions guidelines, but that is
likely to change should we decide to admit in large quantities the semi-pro
player needed for success in today’s collegiate game.

What are the options for change, then? It seems that shuffling around
within Division] isn’t working. Perhapsa lookat Division. II? Perhaps what
is in order is a look at what the team brings to us Davidson College
community and whether it is necessary.

There is a physical and psychological toll to being so completely
outmuscled each week, and our fellow Davidsonians don’t deserve it. It’s
heartbreaking to go out and watch the Wildcats get demolished each week,
and just as hard to report it (there are only so many synonyms for “lose”).
One of two things ought to be done, and soon. Either leave Division I, or
drop the football program entirely. Is there anything inherent about a
football team that a successful so¢cer, basketball or volleyball team cannot
offer us?

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by:the students of Davidson College.
Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704)
892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of the Grey Student Union building.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $25 per year for first class postal
rates. Advertising tates available on request. ss at is held by the Trustees of Davidson
‘College.

Assistant News Editor: Merete Carroll. : :

News Staff: David Bearce, Peter Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Maria Douglas, Beth Drummond,

Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Heath Hardage, Joanne Maheras, Pete Mangone, Ed Powell,

Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary Wheeler.

Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, Hilary Coman, Margaret

Carroll, Bethany Deptuch, Lisa Gerrard, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat:
_ Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia Mischen,

Letters

Vandalism

Dear Editor:

I read Miss Julie Mayfield’s article con-
cerning Davidson’s. business dealings in
South Africa and found that indeed, there
are some very conscientious students here.
Unfortunately, I am beginning to think

such people .her are a distinct minority. .

What! speak of concerns Davidson but doe
not have such an international scope.

In the last issue of The. Davidsonian, I
was shocked to read about the destruction
of the two trees in front of the Vail Com-
mons. I have also noticed vandalism of the
IMAC ‘charts, both the. College a
cans and College Democrats boards -
Chambers.

When I was in high school, I remember
our Associate Headmaster and I were walk-«
ing down a hallway in Jeff (our main build-
ing) and passing some graffiti. Itturned out
to be a beady-eyed polka-dotted puffer fish
smoking a cigarette. At the time, I thought:
it was funny, and rather well drawn. -But
the Associate Headmaster said to me that
that drawing represented a student - it was

a product of his thoughts and values.

We are now adults, not adolescents. As
Davidson College students, we set our-
selves apart. “Well, you got into Davidson
- you must have done something right” is a
common phrase. I find it difficult to be-
lieve that we are so elite we are above
common courtesy. This vandalism was

'’ probably done by a few select individuals -

maybe they were intoxicated. At any rate,
it reflects on our entire community.
Davidson students have proved that they
are capable of expressing themselves by
means other than destruction of property
and writing obscenities on the walls. If we
are above anything, it is vandalism. Per-
haps our next campus forum should be on
our problems with vandalism. In my opin-
ion, it is a much greater concern than the
dating situation here -- and to a greater
number of students, many of whom have
experienced vandalism themselves.

Concerned,

S. Christopher Kelly

Awareness

Dear Editor:

Davidson has attempted to broaden its
horizons in opening up to the International

- Arena, We started the Dean Rusk program

to increase international awareness in our
small haven through bringing’‘in speakers,
organizing events, offering courses, etc.
The Dean Rusk program even offers schol-
arships to international pudents, and must

Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali
Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann.
Sports Staff: John Burns, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robert Grubb, John
Maheras, Charles Marshall, Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Phil Prescott, Mark Puckett,
Chan Sheppard, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
| Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Heihawsy; Stephen
Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler; Mark Steen.
’ Staff Artists: Kevin Dunn, Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis.
‘Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, Moreland Smith, Mark Steen.

Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John Scranton Harris.

this last-year we-began “tl e-i ond
concentration in International Studies.”
All of these efforts have helped open the
students’ eyes toward the outside world in
a general fashion, but how many of us have

- actually taken the time to get to know one

of the many representatives of different
nationalities on our campus? I don’t mean
just talking about the weather, but a work-
‘ing relationship. During my two years at

wee Rw Oe WS ee ie eR eS ON CR mee

Davidson I played the small talk game, but
Inever felt like stepping out of my comfort-

_ able routine enough to really get to know an

international. student. We tend to think,
“They'll meet other people,” “I don’t
understand their culture,” “they prefer to
hang around together anyway,” or “T’ll
wait for them to talk to me first.”

Have you ever imagined what’s going.
radi sbetr mind? Phat . until I

into the midst ofa site culture where:
everyone speaks a foreign tongue (or some
way very strange). You can’t understand.
what they are saying to you, and they can’t:
understand what you are saying to them. In
France when I hear people near me talking

See LETTER, page 15

7) ee oe ee wwe Fe

tto bethrown
