Monday, December 5, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

{—

By BRUCE NEWSOME

The Davidson football players re-
acted strongly to Tuesday’s announce-
ment that the football team could be
dropped to Division III.

Every player contacted remarked that
a school that prides itself on honor and
integrity has broken its Word of honor.
When head coach Vic Gatto came to
Davidson, he was given five years to
turn the football program around, and
last spring the trustees reaffirmed this
decision to give the team through the
1989 season. The players believe that
the board has gone against its word.

A large number of players will trans-
fer at the semester or at the end of the
year. Captain-elect Kenny Nazemetz
said that as many as 80% of the team will
transfer. Many of the players are trans-
ferring in order to play football, al-

Ne

though some will leave just out of anger
and will not play football at another school.

Nazemetz says that the Colonial League
schools, Ivy League schools, and some
Division I schools are looking at the play-

ers that might leave. Davidson has agreed -

to sign waivers for all the players so that
they will not have to sit out a year if they do
transfer.

Because of the transfers, many players
will be losing contact with their friends.
This is going to be especially hard on those
players who have been at Davidson awhile
and have fought through the hard times in
order to become a competetive team.

Nazemetz also believes that Davidson is
going to havea problem with the number of
minority students. The football team has a
large number of minority students who are
going to transfer, he says. Without these
students Davidson is going to lose a large

Players react to Division III news

part of the diversity in the student body.

Many players do not agree that the deci-
sion was based on financial reasons. They
think that if they had won three games this
year, this situation would not have oc-
curred.

A final complaint is about the timing of
the decision. The press conference was
only two weeks from the end of the semes-
ter and the start of final exams. It may be
hard for the players to concentrate on their
studies with all turmoil that they are facing.

It has been suggested that the players be
allowed to take their exams over Christmas
break because of all the distractions, but
there has been no official word on this.

“For the people who would not want to
hear the news, there’s no good timing,”
said athletic director Christopher B. “Kit”
Morris. “A decision needed to be reached
as soon as possible. There are two or three

~

things that go intothat. Today [Thurs-
day] is the first day that Division I
recruiters can go into homes of prospec-
tive athletes. The second is that in terms
of trying to put together a schedule for
next year, every extra day is to your
advantage. Also, if you’re affecting
these guys’ future, you need to let them
know as soon as pousitie that a ag
is coming.”

Although his fraternity contains a
large number of football players, Phi
Delta Theta Vice-President Tom Crys-
tal says that the fraternity will have
enough people to stay open. He predicts
that about 30 of the 62 brothers will
leave but that about 15 freshman will
pledge Phi Delt. He says that the frater-
nity may have to work harder next year
in rushing, but that Phi Delt is on solid
ground.

SS

FOOTBALL, from page 1

Many players have threatened to transfer
from Davidson if the change goes through.
“T don’t think there’s much doubt about
that,” says Gatto. It is not mostly freshmen
or sophomores who are seriously contem-
plating a change, he says. “It’s mostly eve-
rybody. Certainly everybody is exploring
their options.”

The opportunities for players to transfer
to other schools is good, he says. “We are

ball budget, the drop to Division III may
keep Davidson in compliance with Title
IX, a federal regulation aimed at financial
equality in institutions’ support for male
and female athletics.

Morris is currently involved in a inquiry
into whether or not Davidson is in compli-
ance with the act. “The Title IX debate will
be a little more timely after we finish our
study,” he says.

Savings could come from the reduced
travel budgets that a Southeastern schedule
would need. The drop to Division III would

being besieged by col- force the
lege coaches. One of ie oe te ene aes football
the kids has been of- We ° iY team to
fered a full ride at Division II: leave the
Duke.” Every Ivy Colonial
League and Colonial not an opt tion - | League,
League school has got- “It’s a division that for the most part which
ten in touch with play- |. involves state colleges and universities | required
ers, Gatto says. across the country. Ithas modified scholar- | frequent
“There is not a clear ships, but is still based on for the most part | airplane
perception of how tight a regional approach and amore modest | trips to
the market for student financial commitment than Sn en Pro | away
athletes is,” he says. ri games in
“Among the Ivy League Northern
and the Colonial | locales.
League,wehavealmost | ag “I pre-
the best young talent sume,

that can get into any of those schools.”

Morris is optimistic about the current re-
cruiting season. “We’re going to have tore-
structure it according to what the standards
are in Division III football from a coaching
staff perspective, and from an admissions
staff perspective,” he said.

Gatto was not a3 cheery. “There is no
recruiting for next season. The coaches
were on the road recruiting when this hap-
pened; we don’t know who we’re recruit-
ing now.”

The major reason cited for the change at
the press conference was financial. “We
have talked with 12 or 13 Division III
schools in the Southeast, and have looked
at their budgets and talked with them about
the structure of their programs. We sense
that there will be considerable savings and
this is the group of institutions in which we
should seek to be competitive,” says Mor-
ris.

The resulting savings would be reallo-
cated throughout the athletic department,
he said. The overall size of the depart-
ment’s budget would remain unchanged.
Specific savings and the amount saved
were left unclear. “Right now I think that
anything we talk about in advance of the

trustees’ ultimate action is premature,” .

said Morris.
In addition to reducing the overall foot-

and it may be hasty, that our affiliation with
the Colonial League will end,” said Stroud.

- “This will leave us with no team in the

Colonial League.”

However, Morris said that the reception
of Colonial League schools to Davidson’s
plight has been warm. He said that they
have communicated that even if founding
member Davidson does not play football or
compete in any other sport, they want
Davidson as a member. “We are no longer
as significant, but are remembered, and
appreciated,” he said.

Davidson has two other scheduling op-
tions, the Old Dominion. Conférence and
the College Athletic Conference. “We
have friends in both,” says Morris. “We
would presume that within a year or two,
we’ ll have members on our schedule.”

Possible kinks in the plan to make: a
permanent move to Division III involve
several current and proposed NCAA rules.

“We would never be eligible for the
championship in Division III,” says Mor-
ris. However, “there seems to be a move in
Division III away from national champion-
ships and more toward regional champion-
ships. So there’s at least the possibility that
down the road you would see us in regional

See MORE FOOTBALL, page 3

©

mG MERE Chakras of ha Visor SIDER TORT Coramice erpionea tt Bey
commun iipe’s Pivisos il recommendation at Tuesday’s press conference.

Photo by ‘Alex Hayden
