Monday, August 29, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Soccer team prepares
for new campaign

By WHIT WILKS

This year the Cats venture into the inde-
pendent realm in their first season out of the
Southern Conference. Coach Carlie Slagle
carries high hopes for a squad which suf-
fered heavy graduation losses but has
enough returning players that a very suc-

cessful campaign may be expected.
The team will be built around the duo

of Tracy Hankins and Rob Vest in the.

midfield, along with Mike Friedlander at
one of the striker positions. Other players
who will be- called on to play key roles are

Walter Wray, and Spider Wormuth all will
contribute in the offensive and midfield
positions. Lance Long and David Foote
will see time in the back,

In analyzing his schedule, Slagle notes

that ‘‘there are few games we cannot win
and few games we cannot lose.’’ He be- .

lieves the range of possible victories to be

from a low of five to a high of seventeen.

Slagle stated that hard work and the right
breaks will make all the difference.

Top teams such as American, N.C.
State, USC, UNCG, and UNCC all appear

Peter Cobb at either forward or outside..ton the 1988 schedule. Slagle feels that he

midfield, Scott Poisson and Bruce Nofsin-
ger at outside backs, Ross Saldorini at
stopper, and Curtis Ott at sweeper.

The goalie position will be filled by
Scott Zucker and freshman Doug Long.
These two must attempt to take over for
All-American Jim Kelly, who is now a
member of the’ Davidson coaching staff.
Although neither has much experience,
Slagle has been pleased with their presea-
son practice. Obviously, the performance

of his keepers will go a long way in deter-.

mining the outcome of the season.’

A long list of players will also be ex-
pected to play certain_roles on this year’s
club. Neco Dasilva, Rob Ukrop, Jim
_ Walker, Frank Bricio, Robert Avinger,

‘has assembled a consistently strong lineup

of matches. He notes that almost every
game should be tough.

Fans used to the typical 1-0 Davidson
game will be glad to know that Slagle
expects more 3-2 contests this year. His
plan to open things up more accounts for
this prediction. With inexperienced goal-

“jes, itis unrealistic to expect opposing sides

to be held to only one score per match.

In addition to Kellly, Slagle also wel-
comes Harry ‘“Pete’’ Petersen to his staff of
assistants. Petersen was All-American at
Presbyterian in 1985, and will concentrate
on tactical and technical training of strik-
ers. Additionally, he will focus on offen-
sive set pieces.

FIELD HOCKEY, from page 6

arrived in the last year.

The 1988 top freshmen are Francis
Fierro and midfielder Mary Russ. Fi-
erro, from Richmond, Va., is likely to
Start at the attack position, replacing
junior Christy Sloan who is abroad this
year. Pryor calls Fiero a “‘steady, com
posed player on the field with mood
sense.””

Virginia Beach’s Mary Russ is reu-
nited with former teammate Gigi
Cooke. ‘‘Mary’s fast, has quick stick-
work and is very dynamic,’’ says Pryor.
Russ wil most likely play midfield.

On the schedule, Davidson has more
games this year than last. The Wildcats
travel to Virginia October 8 to face new
opponents Roanoke College, Ran-
dolph-Macon, and Radford, one of five

Division I schools they will face in
1988.

The season might bring some success
for the Wildcats. The teams will have
many players who have played under
Pryor for three years.

““We have the same system, the same
basics, and the same techniques. We’re
finally learning to play with each
other,’’ she said.

With preseason play much improved,
the program is‘ progressing. With the
field in beautiful condition and even a
new scoreboard, the filed hockey team
should be ready to attack the new sea-
son. ;

Saturday, September 3, the Wildcats
will face area club teams in scrimmages
beginning at 10:30 a.m.. The season =
opener is September 6 at Pfeiffer, and
the home opener is September 8 against
Atlantic Coast Conference foe Duke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Tripp Helms, News Editor Jennifer Hoffman, Features Editor
Hap Bryant, Whit Wilks, Sports Editors
John Gillikin, Inside Art Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Archie Bunker, Opinions Editor
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
Margaret Carroll, Maria Douglas, Jackie Glynn, Bowe Strickland,
Section Production Editors ; .

ins?
Planning?

Davidson College begins its school year with more than the usual moanin g
and groaning from students. Annual gripes about schedules and whatnot are
present, but heard over all else is the scattered roars of-seniors living miles
from campus or stuffed four to a lounge when only-months ago they were
assured of luxurious new housing on time.

One can only say that given the past track record of Davidson construc-
tion, we should not be surprised that the dorms are not ready. We should be
a bit dismayed, however, by the unrealistically optimistic attitude the
housing office has had toward revising dates for the completion of the
dorms. It seems that had August 20 not already actually passed, the office
would still be touting it as the date.

* Even now, its projections of three or so weeks for the completion of the

first building seem a bit unreachable. The dorms have quite a bit more work
to be done on them; it is only fair to those seniors sprinkled throughout the
campus and town that realistic estimates be given.

In his epic song, ‘‘I Hate Banks,’’ singer Mojo Nixon notes, ‘‘I’m not too
fond of the phone company, either!’’ Just as Davidson students had thought
they were free of Southern Bell’s grip, a wrinkle in the ESSX system has
shown up:which disturbs the new-found freedom.

While students are afforded the marvelous blessing of not having to dial
the 892- prefix most of us had thoroughly internalized anyway, it now
comes to light that neither collect calls nor credit-cards calls. can be made
from dormitory room phones. If they are possible, it’s damned difficult.
This is a feature not discussed when the system was announced last year.

What’s the deal? Can the system be modified to allow charged calls? Even
though we are lucky enough to be situated in the heart of the colossal

| Charlotte metropolitan area, one would expect that some parents would be

out of the local calling zone (Mooresville, perhaps?). This shows a lack of
planning. What Shortcoming of this bastardized system will show up next?

By golly, it’s good to be back!The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the
students of Davidson College. Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian, Box 219,
Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Offices are located on the top floor of
the Grey Student Union building, which is one of the buildings on campus that is finished.

~ Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views
of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $15 per year, or $25 per year for
first class postal rates; go for first class ’cause you're a first-class person. Advertising rates
available on request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Our News Staff, Features Staff, Sports Staff; Photography Staff, and Circulation Staff are
in the process of being assembled. Our Cultural Consultant, as always, is Lee Eichelberger.
If you'd like to be amember of our happy little family, come to the meeting at 8:30 p.m. tonight
in the Big Screen Room.

Opinions Policy

_ Entertainment

"Wednesday Mights; T- 9 p.m.

out | eee Canowyn & Lanny Dea

‘ames, | doi & Anaeua Warrs
2B Eee
5. “Kine Koo”

1288, MANN. DAVIDSON, NC

|| phen

The Davidsonian welcomes letters and com-
mentaries from its readers. The editors will
‘attempt to print all opinions that adhere to

“|_- the following guidelines:

- All submissions should deal with subjects
of interest to the campus community.
- Submissions must be neatly typed or legi-
bly hand-written. The editors will also ac-
~ cept work submitted on 5.25" or 3.5°* IBM-
formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we" re

, _ partial to them).
ae + All letters matt bo subntitod by 7‘p.in: on

Sie Seeitay befins the Gpecest plications

[| date.

<All colameheeried sant ba subsaitied by 7
‘p.m. on the Saturday before the expected
date, except for those on disk-
h are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

must be signed.Writers

“Alls

i] must present the editors with compelling

reasons if they do not wish their names
printed with their-work. :

+ The staff will not edit commentaries for
content or for style, but for the rules of:
English grammar only. *;
“Lauecs should te tnider 300 wardein fengths:
The editors reserve the right to edit and/or

sett ne

condense any letter. .

- The editors reserve the right not to print

submissions which contain factual errors,
‘advertisements, or ‘objectionable 1 material,

or which represent a viewpoint very similar

‘fi tosh lets printed dealing wih he ame
< » topic. eowle

Abi pabindacioia tiguld incllide thé siticn’s
address and phone number. Submissions to
the ‘‘Commentaries’’ section should in-
clude the following information: the - au-
thor's home city and state, graduating class,

Se a Re Se eee

