6

Thursday, September 15, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEW DAVIDSON FACULTY,CONTINUED

Bonnie Marshall, Russian

Another new arrival at Davidson
this year is Russian professor
Bonnie ,
Marshall,
who comes
to us from
the Univer-
sity of South
Alabama
(most
recently), as
well as
numerous
other places
such as
Boston
University,
Wake forest,
and Duke, to
name a few.
Marshall has received her Ph.D. in
Russian Literature from Chapel
Hill.

Within her first month at

Davidson, Marshall has become
quite optimistic concerning her
future here. “The Russian program
certainly has room to be developed
here,” remarks Marshall. “There is
widespread interest in the language
and the students are eager to learn.”
This fact is evident since Marshall
has had to open another section for
beginning Russian this term due to
the demand.

When asked “Why Russian?,”
Marshall was at a loss for a clear-
cut reason: “It’s totally illogical,”
she remarks, “I fell in love with it,
especially the culture.”

Jennifer Bean

Russell Snapp, history

Want to be.immersed in the intricacies of the English expansion in the

community.”
Hilary Coman

Sally McMillen, history

Which new professor specializes
in southern history, has a’son who
is a budding pianist at Oberlin
Conservatory, and hopes to teach a
course in American medical history
here some day?

If you guessed Sally McMillen,
you are correct.
McMillen comes to Davidson from
Middle Tennessee State University.
Although a California native, she is

- No stranger to

North Carolina.

U.S., various colonial wars, and other
things not normally thought of in
everyday life? Dr. Russell Snapp is the
man to do it.
This year is Snapp’s first as part of the
Davidson College community. After
getting his B.A. from Sewanee and his
M.A. and Ph.D. from Harvard, Snapp
finally makes his home here. “I like the )
people and how friendly they are.” ,
When not busily teaching class, he
relaxes by swimming, reading, or
travelling. He admits, however, “T like
to read novels, but there isn’t very
much time for that now.”
Although Snapp finds Davidson a nice
place, he does have a few suggestions
for its improvement. “I guess I would

like for people to become more confident with diversity. I would like to see
people become more open to having different types of people in the academic

Mary Nell Saunders, music

Mary Nell Saunders is a native North Carolinian and has
been in Charlotte since 1977. She received her PhD in music at
Indiana University in Bloomington. In Charlotte she is director of
the Oratorio Singers, the Youth Oratorio, the Chamber Chorus, as
well as Choir Master at Trinity Presbyterian Church and Artistic
Director for the Charlottetown Players.

Here 'at Davidson she teaches the Opera Workshop,
Composers and Styles, Conducting, and"#ill take the Choir on their
spring tour. She has been married for one year to Marc Cedell, the
assistant conductor of the Charleston Symphony. Her favorite
composer is Bach and her favorite pastime is yardwork.

In her next life she would like to do landscape engineering.
And last but not least, she has a 6-year old Keeshond named °
“Winston.”

Tim Jacks

Alex Pink§ton, theatre and speech

Alex Pinkston from Lakeland, Florida, loves Davidson because of “the friendly administrators and highly
motivated and talented students.” “Where else would I have a fireplace in. my office,” he adds.

She has also
taught at Duke
University and
the University
of North
Carolina at
Charlotte.

With a BA and MA in theatre from the University of

Florida, and a PhD at UCLA, Pinkston is well qualified. His

specialties involve acting and directing, especially one act

productions. He has worked at Marquette University and the

Florida School of Art.

Pinkston has also performed himself with various theatre

companies, acted in a few low-budget films, and even appeared
on the soap opera The Young and the Restless. —

Definitely a man who likes to stay busy, Pinkston dances,

does aerobics, plays golf and tennis, and swims. He claims it’s

Davidson has
impressed

_ McMillen in the to “beat the cholesterol.” Other interests of his include the
short time she ballet, symphony, and his “little kitty for company.”
has been here. Anjali Sharma °
“Davidson
students are
spirited. They
always come to class with a great
deal of energy and talk a lot,” she °
raves. Grace Mitchell, education _ Mitchell, a 16-year resident of
This year, McMillen is teaching Just in case you weren't aware of Charlotte, is especially interested in
history of the Old South and the it, Davidson does have an education cal history, and she has recently
New South, as well as American department, published a book
women’s history and a survey of andGrace - on the queen
American history. Mitchell is city.
Virginia Mischen it’s latest Interested to
addition. meet the students
She is of Davidson,
Magdalena Maiz-Pena, Spanish certainly _ Mitchell invites
A Mexican, Magdalena Maiz-Pena has str family values, which is one reason she likes qualified, abe ba ‘ oP.
Davidson. She has good friends and neighbors, good colleagues, and great students. “They make you having y the education
feel at home,” she says, which is saying a lot since she loves Mexico and misses it. ; taught “the - ie aes open
Maiz-Pena comes to Davidson after having procured a whole use on Sep-
degree at Mexico and a Ph.D. at a University in Arizona. gamut,” nett Come
She has also spent a year each in Dublin, Ireland and in, from Piiea —
France. She-applied to teach at Davidson because of the elementary find
“quality of people” that the school attracts. . tocollege. out about an
. Two loves of Maiz-Pena are reading and learning, Mitchell has re hae ae.
_ both of which she feels is a never-ending process. Her _ spent many - javidson.
articles have been published in newspapers, and they deal years ennifer H offman
primarily with Mexican or Latin-American culture. Maiz- teaching in
. Pena’s special area of interest are women’s issues within’ public
various cultures, her views on which she publishes under schools, has
titles such as “Disguise” and “Intimacy and Women.” worked as a
Maiz-Pena loves America, and she is very sure that ~ _ history “aaa
the Anglo-Saxon culture is more complex than we a aera professor at UNCC, and has
5 Anjali Sharma . coordinated an adult masters

sel
