% ee Oe ee em ee
5

Slipping In—
_ Slipping Out

You approached, stealthily

Settling so casually.

Into the cushions called
My life. oe

You shifted, imperceptibly

Implementing ridges

Amongst silk slips slid over
My plumped up pillows.

You left, quickly
Quietly finding your path
To the door.

I remain, solely |
_ Surveying my silk cushions
~ Now indelibly
Creased.

—

a

~ -Anonymous

nee a "Rachel } Nation ‘91

Lenore

Lenore and all of her brothers and sisters were at the funeral home on the day that Ralph died.
‘There were hardly any other people in the musty, dark place. Ralph did not have any relatives still
living, and he never married. Finally at the age of 85 he died in his sleep.
| Lenore clutched her wrinkled Kleenex and visited with the few people who Stopped bg to pay
their lastregards to Ralph. She pretended to be strong, but she was totally crushed by Ralph's death.
Although she was in her late 70s and her memory often failed, she would never forget the terrible
‘mistake that she and Ralphhad made. _-
She had only been in love. with one person in hes life, and that person was Ralph, and when he
to her, she was elated. He lived across the river from her and came to her house often to
~‘court her. ‘He bought some land in.the country and to: build what was soon to be their new
home. * “No one but Ralph and Lenore knew ‘exactly what happened, but somehow they got into an
argument about a “Boosh.” They could not decide where to plant this "boosh" (bush).
They broke off the engagement, and the house.was never occupied at all. However, every

Sunday and Wednesday nights, Ralph left his small cottage in downtown Davidson, North Carolina _

to visit "his gal." And as she stood with Kleenex in hand, Lenore's eyes filled with tears. Neither she
_nor Ralph had ever married. Now he was gone forever.

%

a
.

-Margaret Carroll ‘91

In one fleeting moment everything was fine.
But the time soon returns all the:pain

_ As if once closed wounds are open again .

Blood fills the rivers:of the mind ~
And silver quivers the depths of the heart
While the nerves overflow withe signals

Narrow; tunnel-visianed dreams. abound
All but turned into nightmares =: |
As if pita by American Prayer

Words are the mritclies of an emotional eile

But also the blade‘ofa bleeding heart's knife

A twimto the knife that cuts directly through my spine

At first, leading on by the bridal of the horse
It's all alright and sounds just fine
The mind bording on the edges of ecstacy and insanity

Time reveals the lies ‘and the falsehoods
My heart striken down by trickery
Is cere some sick amusement derived through my suffering?

I was willing to open the holding cells of my soul
‘You just slam them all back shut without care
And not even a second thought about the pain you're causing

Life is drifting away like a blood-filled cloud
Travelling towards the edges of shadows in the dark
A silhouette in the night; dust in the wind

ay

