8

Cheap Seat Comments

Spring has arrived: Batter up!

By KEN BOGERT

Okay, now that winter has gone and
spring has finally arrived, I can stop com-
plaining about all that silly fraternity gar-
bage and get down to what’s really impor-
tant. It’s time to play ball--baseball--and
it’s about time some reporter started cover-
ing the action! That’s what the “Cheap Seat
Comments” are all about. It’s about getting
you, the fan, all those tidbits of information
that will help you to root (bet) wisely.

All the players have come back from the
off-season. Some were training and getting
in shape. Others were. duck hunting and
drinking beer. Still others were writing
autobiographies, A few even played base-
ball in the winter leagues. But itis now time

to come back and challenge each other for -

the pennant. And before the season starts,
everyone has high hopes (that’s the greatest
thing about baseball).

It is now my job to separate fact from
fiction and tell you which teams have a real
chance, and which teams have no chance.
Today I will analyze the National League
West. This Division proves difficult to pick
since the two best teams are somewhat
evenly matched. But here it goes.

Without a doubt, the Atlanta Braves will
be in the thick of it come September. The
roster is packed with super-stars, regular
house-hold name types--Jeff Dedmon,
Charlie Puleo, Dion James, Ed Olwine,
Zane Smith, Bruce Benedict, etc.

Of course, I have neglected to mention
the real stars that Atlanta does possess--
Dale Murphy; uh, and did I mention Dale
Murphy? Did anyone say Dale Murphy?
Seriously, no matter how you add it up,
Braves fans, the Atlanta club is Dale
Murphy and then a bunch of other guys.
Ken Griffey and Ozzie Virgil are old. Even

Dale is getting up there in age.

If America’s team doesn’t do something
they are going to find themselves unable to
beat anyone. The pitching stinks. The field-
ing stinks, despite the new combo up the
middle of Andres Thomas and Damaso
Garcia. Besides Murph, the hitting stinks.
Almost all of them are slow base-runners.

Chuck Tanner is a nice guy for a man-
ager, but when is the last time he won,
1979? The one bright spot for the Braves is
Gerald Perry, their hot-hitting first base-
man. But overall, this club is no better than
they were last year. Last year they were bad.

The other clubs in the division are much
better and do not deserve such harsh treat-
ment, so I will look at them with a little
more respect, but the Braves don’t deserve
any.

The Astros are convinced that their dis-
appointing performance in ‘87 was a fluke,
but I am convinced that it was not. The
Astros have had it. Their strong-point in
past years has come from their supreme
pitching staff, but it is an aging staff. Bob
Knepper, Nolan Ryan, Mike Scott, and
Dave Smith are not kids anymore, yet these
men will be the heart of the staff. Thirty-six
year old Joaquin Andujar, the major addi-
tion to the staff in the off-season, will not
help much.

At the bats, Houston is almost adequate,
but not quite. Last year, they batted only
.252 as ateam (2nd to last in the NL). Glenn
Davis, Kevin Bass, Billy Hatcher, and Billy
Doran are all good hitters, but they are
vulnerable to prolonged slumps.

In the past and this year too, the slump
factor will have adverse effects on the team,
especially considering the lack of produc-
tion out of the rest of the line-up. The final
analysis is that the Astros will lose a lot of

Own the sky

To fly is one thing. To fly with the Marine Corps is something
else. They'll show you the meaning of wings. From the wings of

the F-18 Hornet to the wings you wear as a Marine aviator,
this is flying at its best. And your ticket to fly is ia
your college diploma. If you'd like to be up

there, contact your local Marine Officer Selec- ¢

tion Officer. 1-800-423-2600. .

Were looking for a few good men.

Visit Capt Tom Williams at Student Center Mar. 18 or call 1-800-722-6715.

3 to 1 ball games. The pitching will be okay,
while the offense will sputter.

Kirk Gibson is a good player, but he is not
going to save the Dodgers in ’88. The best
the Dodgers can hope for is fourth place,
maybe third. Basically, they have the same
problems that have been plaguing the As-
tros, good pitching but no hitting. They
were the worst hitting club in the NL last
year. :

The batting order improves significantly
with Kirk Gibson. Opposing teams will
give Pedro Guerrero and Mike Marshall
better pitches to hit with Gibson in the line-
up. This may be enough to put LA over the
Astros, but certainly not nearly enough to
win the pennant. Desc

Another problem with the Dodgers is

their fans. In.Los Angeles, they “watch” _

baseball, but they don’t “root.” They are not
really avid “fans,” but rather “spectators,”
not really interested in who wins and who
loses. It’s not “sport,” but only “entertain-
ment.” It creates a bad atmosphere for
winning. Even with a good atmosphere, the
Dodgers would still have trouble winning.

The surprise waiting to happen in the NL
Westis the San Diego Padres. This may not
be the year they put it together, but a lot of
baseball people will be shocked by these
young, farm-bred, gutsy players.

Last year, the Padres started by losing 42
of their first 54 games--the 1962 Mets were
practically that bad. After that, however,

. they-played almost. 500 ball.

The core of the team is a bunch of hard-
nosed players; Tony Gwynn, Benito San-
tiago, John Kruk as well as pitchers Eric
Show and Andy Hawkins. They are man-
aged by a hard-nosed guy too, Larry Bowa.
Remember that last year was only Bowa’s
first year of managing in the majors. By the
second half of the season, he had the team
playing well.

In a year or two, they will have a legiti-
mate. shot at the NL West title.

The Reds and Giants are the teams to beat
in the National League West, but I like the
Giants and I will tell you why. The Reds are
a bunch of “ifs.” Jf Tom Browning can
rebound and pitch like he did in 1985, and
if Jose Rijo and Danny Jackson can ever
realize their alleged potential, and if Barry
Larkin, Nick Esasky, and Eric Davis can

Friday, March 11, 1988 THE DAVIDSONIAN

play as well as they played last year, and if
someone can fill Dave Parker’s shoes as an
RBI man, Cincinnati will be tough.

The Reds have a few proven players, but
the majority of the roster is composed of
youngsters. This is the year they prove
themselves future stars, or it will be the year
they prove themselves to be flashes in the
pan. Look for them to crumble under
Cincinnati’s demanding fans and the press.

But the Giants are a good club--the most
legitimate contender in the NL West. This
is a club where Mike Aldrete, a line drive
hitter who hit .32 t season, could not
find a way into the starting line-up despite
a sizzling bat. Why not? Because the rest of
the clubis solid and they play well together;
they all know their roles too. CSS

Candy Maldonado, Jeff Leonard, Kevin
Mitchell, and Will Clark will power the
Giants to victory.. Dave Dravecky, Mike
Krukow, Rick Reuschel, and Atlee Ham-
maker are not great, but manager Roger
Craig taught them the split-fingered fast-
ball and turned them all into consistent
pitchers. Scott Garrelts was the surprise last
year by becoming the main closer for San
Fran. They could use more bullpen help.

Players like Robby Thompson, Jose
Uribe, and Chris Speier will push their
teammates to scrap for everything they can
get and the aggressive coaching style of
Roger Craig will fit their personalities per-
fectly. Moreover, playoff experience has
taught the Giants a lot--they wantto win the
NL Championship this year, not just get to
the Championship Series. With a good mix
of young players and veterans, unlike Cin-
cinnati, the Giants are the best club in the
NL West. They are going to dominate justas
the: Mets did in the 1986.campaign.._.

There you have it. The perfect picks. 1)
Giants, 2) Reds, 3) Padres, 4) Astros, 5)
Dodgers, 6) Braves. Perhaps the Astros
could finish ahead of the Padres. Sorry
Braves fans, but it should not be news to you
that they are terrible.

It’s about time the winter ended and
spring began. And it’s about time baseball
started. And remember all you football fans
that there are at least a hundred reasons why
baseball is better, one of them being that the
ball is round. Next week I’ll look at the AL
West, the worst division in baseball.

sat’ is: fac’tion (sat’ 15°14 S101): contenntnens,
a source 0. enjoyment. ‘

teach (téch) vb: to instruct by precept, example, ox experience.

...they do go together.

education.

Teaching is a career that gives lifetime satisfaction: Teaching in a
private independent school provides you with flexible curricula,
small classes, motivated students and a supportive community.
Over 750 independent schools, non-profit and non-discriminatory,
are looking for people with a firm grounding in the traditional
academic subjects taught in elementary and high school. Critical
ueeds exist in math, science, Spanish, French and elementary -

Certification is not required.

IES counsels and refers beginning and experienced teachers to
independent schools nationwide.

We charge no fees to the applicant.
For an Application call or write:

INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL SERVICES —
20 Nassau Street ¢ Princeton, NJ 08542
1-800-257-5102 or (609) 921-6195

Independent Educational Services is a non-profit corporation directed by member schools.

Information Session:

March 16, 1988, 7:00 pm

Morrison Room in the College Union
