td: from: the studio art room

The game of life is quicker than
the wink of an eye.

The game of love is just
hello & goodbye until

could love we meet again.

Love you as well
and strong as
fully human lovee

What is essential is still held in common.

Puddle ashamed by a birdbatn

And thou art not unlike

You people are Sooooo Deep!!!

ical Difficulties
nd By

on.
-with my. jambox was another challenge. Al-
e radio was fine, the cassette player regularly
e to utter despair. Its favorite trick was what I
hing lyrics.” For example, if a tape of the
bnthem was played in my box, it would sound like
OH, SAY CAN YOU _ SEEEEeceer-
nstRRRLY LIGHT...” Bearing my box like the
arry their sick to Lourdes, I made countless treks
¢, hoping for a miraculous healing. Cleaning the
placing the motor; it was all in vain. One day, the
er finally stopped working altogether. Wearily, I
Pdged my defeat and bought a new box (which,
ly, seems fine so far).
lh-enemy, however, is the computer the king of hi-
nent. Like the way Lucy always talks Charlie
ito trying just once more to kick that football, the
first lulls me into a false sense of security.
is all-to-brief honeymoon period, everything
and I chide myself for being so paranoid and
sive. Then, like Lucy jerking away the football,
puter zaps me. Erased term papers, printer
‘disappearing cursors it doesn’t matter. Ulti-
1¢ computer’ s frightening power to destroy minds
documented in other cases as well. I once read.a
pr article entitled, “ ‘Computer Syndrome’ Is a
hosis for Our Hi-Tech Times.” The victim, an
year-old Danish boy, spent so much time on the
that he became unable to distinguish real life
puter programs. This poor kid would wake up in
e of the night thinking “Line 10: go to bathroom;
ext!” Clearly, then, preventing a computer from
e mad is indeed a formidable challenge.
hout my lifetime, I have been mercilessly perse-
machines. The secret to surviving these attacks
sanity is maintaining a sense of humor and

when to give in. Come to think of it, maybe I’ve
all this. I think I’ll go type this up on the
. After all, I’m probably just being paranoid.....

--J anet Sanford, ‘92.

Freshmen Writing Contest

Blue Ribbon Winner |

No:

For a Moment’s Peace

I thought I knew just where I was going
But my thought was false, untrue

And led me onward to a new place
Down a path I’d never traveled.

It was funny to experience
Yet I got scared with each step I took.
I was going deeper and deeper into the soul of the wind.

The path behind me just faded in the distance.

I walked alone with nothing to guide me
Except the panic in my heart of being trapped forever.
I wondered if I’d ever see the sunlight again ©
Or would shadows now haunt my life.
i}
But then I came to a clearing. —
The sunlight poured down onto a grassy knoll.
I sat and rested, absorbing it all,
For who knew how long it would last.

--Betsy Boyd, ’92

Maria Rey,

99,

