Features

CROP Walk:

CROP offers students a chance to actively fight world hunger

By PREM MANJOORAN

College students, faculty, staff, towns-
people, and the community churches will
meet at 2 p.m. on Sunday, October 23, for
the annual CROP Walk in an effort to raise
money to help fight the world hunger prob-
lem.

The 10k (6.2 mile) walk through the
town will be manned_with volunteers to
distribute drinks at the five or six rest stops
along the way. McDonald’s will sponsor
refreshments.

Hall counselors, RA’s, eating houses and
fraternities are distributing sponsor sheets
in competition for the largest participation
in this event. Individuals obtain pledges
from sponsors which will go to the Church
World Service (CWS) relief funds.

“Tomorrow begins today,” states the
CROP Walk flyer.

CWS has been devoted for 40 years to the
task of converting today’s promises into a
happier, “fuller” tomorrow. Affiliated with
the CWS, the Davidson Chapter of CROP
is still in its developing stages. Not only is
it relatively unknown and unpublicized on
campus, but its activities are fairly limited.

Pop Flick

As joint coordinator Arindam Bhat-
tacharjee states, “We are self-suffi-
cient--we have to be! Our limited
resources must necessarily
mean that our projects be
low key.”

Although — small,
CROP is a group
which meets regu-
larly every Thurs-
day at 1 p.m. to
host a lunch con- ‘
sisting of a simple,
yet wholesome
meal of cornbread,
rice, and beans for
a $1 donation. This
lunch serves the
dual purpose of
CROP Lunch by re-
minding participants of
the plight of many around
the world.

Today, one billion people are
chronically hungry. In fact, twenty-
four people die each minute of starvation or

Blue Velvet’s complexity
warrants two viewings

By LEE BUSHKELL

To try and describe the film Blue Velvet
in a paragraph or two would change the
viewer’s perceptions when he or she saw it.
To review Blue Velvet presents the re-
viewer with a problem, for it is unusual to
see a film this deep in meaning and symbol-
ism. On the surface,
Blue Velvet is a
movie about a male
college student
who gets sucked
into web of murder,
sadism and pain,
but more than that,
it is a dark, sensual
film.

Young Jeffery
(Kyle McLachan)
plays a college stu-
dent -who_ naively
believes he could
solve_a mystery on his own. The movie
starts off peacefully, with shots of flowers
in front of white picket fences, waving
firemen, and old men watering lawns. The
perversity of the movie:is soon revealed,
however, as the old man suffers a stroke
and is taken to the hospital. Scenes like
these indicate that picturesque little Lum-
bertown (where the radio station is
WOOD), is not all it seems.

The sickness in this film runs rampant,
and the main characters, Jeffery and
Dorothy Valens (Isabella Rosselinni) en-
gage in a sadist/masochistic relationship
after she catches him hiding in her closet.
The relationship twists with the addition of
Frank (Dennis Hopper), who rapes and
beats Dorothy~ while calling her
“Mommy.”

After visiting several times, Jeffery falls
in love with Dorothy and becomes deter-

Blue Velvet’s |

mined to find her husband and son,-whom -

Frank has kidnapped. Following him, Jef-
fery discovers about Frank’s life, but he
gets caught. Frank takes him on @ “joy
ride,” during which ena is kissed an

beaten by him. After this incident, Jeffery
takes his story to the police and Frank’s
gang is captured. Inatension-filled climax,
Jeffery kills Frank from the same closet in
which the whole story.

Blue Velvet is full of symbolism. A
powerful symbol is the continued up and
down images in the
movie. Almost the
entire film is shot
from a. slightly
raised or lowered
view, giving the
viewer a good and
bad look; watch for
it. The allusions to
climbing are also
strong, and there isa
powerful scene of a
hooker climbing
atop acar to listen to
music and escape
the hopror of Jeffery being beaten by Frank.

Music also acts as a strong symbol.
Dorothy, aclub singer, sings “Blue Velvet”
to Frank, bringing him to tears. In the film,
music is full of both anger and release,
especially to Frank. The song “Blue Vel-
vet” soothes Frank, yet others move him to
violence, and the old songs are always,
almost falsely, played in the background.
The background music seems more a char-
acter than a mode of expressing mood
because of its large role in the movie. The
music acts as a release in the scenes of the
hooker on top of the car and Frank in the
club. -

I highly recommend this film because it
isa feast for the mind. I was dissecting parts
of the movie long after viewing it. There
are films which should be seen, if only for
the experience. Blue Velvet is one of these,
and multiple viewings will only heighten
the awareness and enjoyment.

Blue Velvet will be shown Friday at 9: 45
following A Clockwork Orange which will
begin at 7:30. Don’t miss this psychologi-
cal, psychedelic double feature in the 900
ROOM,

Lange nee me meme ore

people who are hungry. Unfortunately
mostof us are not

Davidson CROP
is trying to make a difference. But as joint
hunger-related diseases. “There arealotof coordinator Nusrat Ali Khan notes, “There

seems to be a general lack of concern
among the students. We’ ve emphasized the
issue too much, or people just don’t care or
have the time.” On the brighter side, how-
ever, freshman are getting involved.

Professor of religion David Kaylor is
entirely unabashed in his support of the
walk. “It represents not just the concern of
a few committed individuals who strive to
raise money for the starving; it helps focus
the attention of the rest of the community
on a nebulous, grey area that often tends to
be overlooked,” he said.

CROP provides students with an oppor-
tunity to actively involve themselves in a
humanitarian cause and provide tangible
evidence of their concern. As sophomore
Meredith Gooding puts it, “CROP Walk
and CROP Lunch will unify the students
with local, national, and global efforts to
augment relief measures while creating an
understanding of .the devastating : ‘word
hunger situation.”

For more information on how to get
involved, contact coordinators Arindam
Bhattacharjee at -6022 or Nusrat Ali Khan
at -6236.

Straight Jacket Special both films for $2.00.

Just when you thought there wasn’t enough sex and violence in your life, Cinema Classics and
Stanley Kubrick come to the rescue with this week's feature presentation A Clockwork Orange.
If you go to this one and manage to stay through the second half of the double feature - Blue Velvet
- then you'll probably want to spend the rest of your life out in a field picking daisies just to avoid
doing any sort of violence to your fellow man which is, of course, the point to both films. Enjoy.
A Clockwork Orange starts at 7:30PM. Admission is $1.50. Blue Velvet begins at 9:45PM.
Admission is $1.00. If you're feeling pressed for cash or you just want to see both films try our

A little more than eight ways
to be happy with the roomie

By BETHANY M. DEPTUCH
Now that you’ve been’ [back] at
Davidson for half a semester, you may have

found that your living arrangement has lost ©

some of its excitement. The roommate who

was so lovingly chosen (by either thie hous-—

ing office, the Meyer’s-Briggs test or your-

self), is‘now a different person. All the

qualities you had in common are gone and

in their place, you are left with someone
“who plots to.lock you out of the room

haere you take a shower.

Things about your roommate that were
hardly noticeable in the first few weeks
now grate on your nerves. Your room-
mate’s ugly blue slippers are no longer
funny, but rather repulsive. Around 2 a.m.,
your roommate always mumbles about her
love life in her sleep. You used to strain to

See ROOMIE, page 5

