4

Black History Month

The black experience at Davidson

By TRENT STEVENS

Throughout most of Davidson College’s
history, the typical student has been a
white, male Protestant. Anyone of a differ-
ent background who could be found on
campus was usually a cook, a custodian or
a housekeeper.

It was not until the 1960’s that things
began to change. For as late as 1959, col-
lege President Grier Martin was quoted as
saying, “It is not in the best interests of the
college to admit Negro students at this
time.”

The pressure to integrate did not come
from within the college, but from’an out-
side source: the Board of World Missions
of the Presbyterian Church. According to
the May 8, 1981 issue of The Davidsonian,
“The Board wanted to train young Congo-
lese in church-supported colleges in the
South. They recommended specific stu-
dents to Davidson and guaranteed financial
support until their graduation.”

On February 15, 1961, the Board of
Trustees approved the Board of Missions’
request. However, they would only accept
students who had been chosen by the Board

of Missions, were well qualified and Con-
golese. No black Americans or black stu-
dents of nations other than what is now
Zaire could be accepted.

On May 17, 1962, a large majority of the’

Trustees of Davidson College voted in
favor of admitting students regardless of
race or nationality. This announcement
came at a time when only 53 percent of
Davidson College students wanted integra-
tion. The change in policy was also disap-
proved of by many of Davidson’s busi-
nesses, five of which publicly refused to

-, Serve-black students with remarks*such as

“T’ll close that door and go home,” “THI ask
them to leave” and “anybody that fools
with them is a damn fool.”

So the first black students to be accepted
were not welcomed with everyone’s open
arms. Religion Professor Dan Rhodes was
assigned to head a committee to help the
college and the community to adjust to the
new students. According to Rhodes, “It is
very difficult to make the blacks feel com-
fortable. It’s one thing to accept blacks into
the school and another thing entirely to
make them feel comfortable.”

with think tanks. Government and

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center
to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior
status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges
and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. Col-
lege in Oxford. A sperial sum:ner session is directed by WISC.

_ INTERN IN
WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress. with the White House, with the media and
and Journalism

Officials, who are also scholars. and

The

by experienced j " Similar
policy internships are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall. Spring and Summer)

International Studies Center
Woshangon, DE. 20982 (202) 547-3275. -

4we.. N.E. Suite 238

EQ / AA

The first African student to enter
Davidson was Benoit Nzengu. He was soon
followed by Georges Nzongola. They were
slowly accepted at first, but the college
community put pressure upon the town to
give them fair treatment. Martin managed
to convince the owners of several Charlotte
movie theaters to admit Nzengu, but he was
required to give prior notice and bring two
white students, one to sit on each side of
him in the theater. Their acceptance by the
white community was facilitated by the
fact that they were foreigners, and they
were served in restaurants, barber shops

‘and other establishments that would not

serve local blacks. The students seemed to
handle the new policy well, but many ta-
boos, such as interracial dating, took a
while for the students to swallow.

The first American blacks to be accepted
were Leslie Brown and Wayne Crumwell,
who graduated from Davidson in 1968.
Brown was his high school’s valedictorian,
National Honor Society president, Student
Council president, yearbook editor and he
was a member of his school’s debate team.
Crumwell wasalsoa top student, ranking in
the top 5% of his high school class. He was
later to note that “Y ou.can’t integrate fully
here or anywhere else. “What good is inte-
grating if the feeling behind it is not.real?”

But discrimination in Davidson had not
taken its last breath. Many feel that a local
restailirant, the Coffee Cup, sent star bas-
ketball player Charlie Scott to the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, when it
refused to serve him and his parents unless
they sat in the segregated section. The
incident may have cost the Wildcat’s bas-
ketball team a national championship.

A boycott and picketing of Ralph
Johnson’s barbershop in 1968 was consid-
ered by many the summit of Davidson’s
radical sentiment in the flower child era.
Local barbershops had refused to serve
local blacks because’ they felt that their
white customers would become disloyal if
they did serve them. Johnson later blamed
the strike for his business’ subsequent fail-
ure. Ken Norton of Norton’s Barbershop
was once quoted as saying “You can’t
teach a dog new tricks and you can’t expect
these men to change overnight,” but he

$ $

Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

feels the change was inevitable.

In the 1970’s, the process began to slow
down. Black students began ‘to realize that
the hardest part of Davidson wasn’t getting
in; it was finding a reason to stay. Even in
the 1980’s, black students at Davidson
must contend with a relative lack of social
life and identity crises, not to mention
white . students’ preconceived notions -
about blacks and their culture.

One group that is attempting to make the
Situation more palatable is the Black Stu-
dent Coalition (BSC), which schedules
activities to bring blacks together. BSC
president Marino Bruce feels that there are
still barriers to. be broken down. For ex-
ample, he feels that white students often
accept him as an athlete before he is ac-
cepted as a student. “They refuse to give
blacks credit on their own merit,” he states.
“The students are unsympathetic to the
minority situation. They don’t know and
they don’t care to know.”

With minorities making up only a small
fraction of the college body, there are few
who share the same experiences. And with
only five black faculty members, there are
even fewer role models for minority stu-
dents to follow.

But despite all of this, many minority
students feel that there are some positive
aspects of going to Davidson. Bruce says
that “the best thing (about Davidson) is the
attempt by some administrators, such as the
president, to improve the minority situ-

- ation on campus.”

Senior Peter Mangone, a member of a
student/faculty committee studying the
diversity of Davidson’s students, says,
“The faculty and the administration’ are
committed to identifying and solving any
problems that exist on campus involving
minority students.”

On May 18, 1962, Bill Hagen, associate
editor of The Davidsonian, had this to say
about Davidson’s integration: “It reflects
the ancient liberalism of a forgotten past,

_ that of the oldest Old South, the South that

prior to 1840 sponsored the first abolition-
ist societies in the country.”

While that past is certainly a dim mem-
ory, perhaps the 1990's will bring that
elusive freedom that eludes many today.

$

Earn money, fame and another
item to add to your resume

JOIN The Davidsonian’ s

ADVERTISING
STAFF

Contact Hutch “John” Hutchinson (-6110) or Scooter
“Bill” “P.O.” Scouten (-6078) for more information! —

