_ The Davidsonian
"Monday, January 23, 1989

il

TarnerGimore moyes ithe ball against the gh as of Marylee ( County.

‘Aroiind the: Horn

Photo by Ben Yarbrough

Coaching inconsistencies
cost Wildcats on court

By HAP BRYANT
- Major college basketball coaches can
manipulate game situations to their teams’
advantage. Take Villanova’s Rollie Mas-
samino, He works, the clock, substitution
patterns and: timeouts to put his team ina
position to win almost every game.

Asaresult, Massamino’s 1986 Villandva’ »
squad marched over better teams to win the ©

NCAA Championship, and the 1989 Wild-

‘cats have senstaid ‘beaten third-ranked
Syracuse.

Many other coaches take active parts in
their teams’ games, usually with favorable
results--Bobby Knight at Indiana, Lou
‘Carnasecca at St. John’s, Dean Smith at
UNC, ;

Unfortunately, Davidson does not have
the luxury of one of these masters. But we
still expect. our coach to act in similar
fashion, all be it on a more limited scale.

Thus far this season, and indeed in the
last few seasons, Davidson basketball fans
and players have been sorely disappointed
by the Reafoneiancs of Coach Bobby
Hussey, i.

Performance is the correct word, for
Hussey is an active participant in the events
that transpire on the court.

However, he has acted inconsistently
during this campaign and has actually put
his team at a disadvantage.

In particular, Hussey seems oblivious to
the realities of the game. He has consis-

tently failed to use timeouts to stop.the ©

other team’s momentum, and when he has
used them, it has normally been six or eight
points too late.

For example, against Wofford College,
perhaps the worst performance by a
Davidson basketball team in recent history,
Hussey allowed Wofford to dictate every

“aspect of the game. A ten-point Wofford

lead at the half grew to eighteen before

} Hussey even attempted to stop the momen-

tum. Of course, by then it was too late.
Another glaring fault, even more griev-

“ous because the Wildcats are young, has
_ been Hussey's substitution pattern, or lack
_ thereof. How can anyone expect the fresh-

men on the team to gain any confidence and
experience when they always fear being
removed from the game?

For instance, in last weekend’s game
against Florida International, Paul
Denmond entered the game. After a short
time, he made a “freshman mistake,” turn-
ing the ball over. Soon after, he was back on
the bench, wondering when he would get
another chance.

_The freshmen are not the only victims...
; Juniors Maurice Gray and Dick Seidel have

also lost confidence.
Gray, who has possessed more potential
than just about any other recent Wildcat,

sat out the first eight minutes of the second — |

_ half against Florida International.
Seidel played fifteen minutes against’

Duke, the top-ranked team in the country.

Then he did not play against Campbell.
You figure it out.

No one can expect any of the players to
mature until they are allowed to make

See BRYANT, page 12

Basketball

Cats 1-3 since winter break

By LARRY DAGENHART

Davidson briefly enjoyed the sweet taste
of victory Saturday night as the young Cats

racked up 20 points from Alan Hunter and
18 from Bruce Elder to beat Florida Inyet-
national 85-75.

Although Davidson was ahead by ten at
the half, 42-32, the win did not come easy
down the stretch. After being up by 19

and cut Davidson’s lead to only five.
Davidson’s margin briefly crept up to six
as Sterling Freeman made the front end of
two fowl shots to make it 78-72. But the
shot that put Florida in | position to win the
game was Dwight Stewart's 3- -pointer with

-29 seconds left. The Panthers, then down

by three, were forced to foul, as time was
running out.

score 77-70. - :
Things got a kind of scary for the Cats
during the last minute of play. With. 51
‘seconds remaining, Hunter missed a one-
and-one opportunity and on the ensuing
possession, fouled F.I.U.’s Brett Lewis at
the other end, who made both free throws

when Bill : Sellers That’s
followed a Paul where Magic
Drobnitch miss, the Cats defeat Gaines _ar-
Wildcats came up rived. Gaines
empty on their next | | d: k converted
five possessions, al- arVv ar 9 ta ec both ends ofa
lowing the Golden ° one-and-one,
Panthers to cut the h d ] intercepted
lead to 11. At the t It Pp ace the inbounds
two minute mark, . bomb and
Florida cut Jay Schmitt chosen for was inten-
Davidson'sieadtoa | all-tournament team opally
Siowant parent a By DAN COTTON Diego Gar.
three-point play af- The Davidson basketball team travelled Cia. Gaines
ter ‘a Sellers foul to north to Hartford, Conn., during Christmas again made
make it 75-70. break to participate in the Connecticut both free
Sellers who Mutual Classic. The Wildcats came away throws to put
scciSaahhecdt high with a third place finish, beating Harvard Davidson up
“14 points along with 70-62 in the consolation game after falling 82-7 5 with
nine rebounds. took—-|__!© Ait Force 48-45 in the first round. 16 seconds
oui ‘hig fdstrations Host UConn won the tournament, de- remaining
on the next posses- feating Air Force 68-55 in the final after After an
sion: with Rig’ third routing Harvard 84-43 in the preliminaries. FLU. tum-
dunk, which got a over, Jay
standing _ ovation See TOURNAMENT, page 12+ Schmitt fed
from the. Wildcat — Hunter for a
fans. That made the stuff to seal

Florida’s fate. Gaines intercepted another
pass and with two seconds left, Hunter was
fouled by Garcia and made one more foul
shot to end the game.

See HOOPS, page 12

