$e&-& THE DAVIDSONIAN’S 75m ANNIVERSARY ISSUE A April 1989

; Pid

Seventy-five years of collegiate journalism

Beating out “Red and Black,” “Elec-
tron,” and ““Haka-Raka,”among others,
W.H. Neal's entry won the March 1914
contest to name Davidson College’s new
student newspaper. On April 1 the first
issue of The Davidsonian appeared.

Seventy-five years have passed since an
enthusiastic student body voted to estab-
lish the publication. The paper has duti-
fully recorded the events of this college
during this period encompassing both
World Wars and Vietnam, Woodrow
Wilson through George Bush and nearly
half of the college’s 152-year history. While
the historical record it provides is by no
means complete, The Davidsonian is proba-
bly the best single source of college goings-
on.

Founding editor EW. Price’s paper
devoted much time and attention to sports,
particularly the 1914 Davidson foot ball
team. The team went 8-1 that season, in-
cluding a spectacular 86-6 win over peren-
nial whipping boy Wofford, and its sole
loss was at the hands of arch-rival North
Carolina. ‘

The massive Eienots that swepto over
Davidson during World War II were not as
évident in The Davidsonian; the most strik-
ing difference in the paper was the occa-
sional notice of an alumnus’ being killed in
action. The freshmen continued to paint
over the sophomore class’ number with
their own on the water tower each year and
battles between The Davidsonian and Scripts
and Pranks erupted periodically.

In fall 1953, the newspaper's raging
debate centered around a proposal to
return to traditional diplomas; blocked.
Latin letters had been used since 1930 in
place of the traditional ornate script. The
class of 1954 became the first to use the
“classic” diplomas after-a student body
vote passed the measure 431-63.

The 1960s were the heyday of Shaw
Smith’s Union, and two or three times a
year, the newspaper would be led with
headlines such as “Cupid, St. Valentine’s,
Mid Winters Triumph Over Villainous Flu
Bug” when Joni James and Louis Arm-
strong came to play in Febrtiary 1960.

A January 1961 issue demonstrated the

WDAV-FM from students did not go
over quietly: “Entire Staff of WDAV Re-
-Ssigns” screamed a headline after the

changing nature of Davidson. As the front
page contained a standard story: “Librarian
Warns against Defacing,” the back page
had an ad from the Fox Drive-In for The
Garden of Eden: “Nothing about the human
body is vulgar or immoral—evil is in the
mind.”

Although a poll as recent as 1966
showed 75 percent of students supporting
the government’s policy in Vietnam, the
newspaper and students successfully
brought considerable pressure on the
Trustees during the 1968-69 school year to
make ROTC voluntary. The 55th anniver-
sary issue of The Davidsonian in 1969 dis-
cussed the editorials of the paper’s first
year: “They were editorializing on the war
then, too. But it was a different war and
produced a different attitude.”

A December 1971 gag issue was head-
lined “Trustee Approval Final Hurdle Left
for Spencer-Bevan Coeducation Plan,” yet a
scant six months later the Trustees actually
did it: “Trustees Give Unanimous Ap-
proval for Immediate Acceptance of
Coeds.”

An October 1972 issue was led by a
story questioning Davidson’s “Christian
Commitment” stipulation i in awarding
tenure to faculty, a practice that hit the
front pages of The New York Times and The
Washington Post a mere five years later
when President Sam Spencer retracted a
job offer to Jewish professor Ron Linden.

-The resulting outcry from the newspaper

and students led to a Trustee change in
policy by the end of the year.

The Davidsonian could not be faulted for
not covering student trends during this era.
Tom Ainsworth, Senior News Editor, wrote
in 1974, “Though not very strong in num-
bers, and lacking in continuity, this campus
can be proud of the fact that it has the most
polite streakers in the state, possibly the
country.” Students published a route
before the fact so those who would be of-
fended could be forewarned.

The 1978 adminstration takeover of

Trustees decided to give control of the
station to the college. Months of protests
and editorials failed this time and the
administration refused to give in.

A Guide to Courses at Davidson appeared
in the April 6, 1979, issue. Its biting, at
times libelous, satire describing the faculty
had the rare effect of rousing the students
into action against the newspaper rather
than with it. The outcry cost editor Charles
Erwin his job within a week.

The Reagan era was reasonably quiet at
Davidson. Perhaps the biggest controversy
in this decade was at the beginning of my
own term as editor last fall, as Davidson
struggled to decide -what its football policy
would be. Football players and parents
levelled allegations of broken promises and
dishonor against the college not only in the
pages of The Davidsonian but also The Char-
lotte Observer.

We were leaked a faculty report detail-
ing the academic and budgetary woes of
the program. (Basketball coach Bobby
Hussey provided us with a great quote
when he characterized the authors of the
report as “frustrated jocks.”) I was some-
what flattered to find myself accused in a

aletter to. the Observer of being part of an
elaborate conspiracy to kill football at
Davidson; other parties in my scheme were
the editors of the Observer, the administra-

. tion and the faculty.

It is an honor to be at the helm when
The Davidsonian turns 75; it has given me
the opportunity to research and reflect
upon the experiences of editors over the
past three-quarters century. Many of the
problems we face are different: today we
moan about computer systems going down
late in the night, but the 1921-22 editor had
to deal with his office going up in smoke
with Chambers. But we encounter many of
the same problems, too: how to meet dead-
lines and keep up with schoolwork, how to
motivate the staff, how to stress concepts
like objectivity. It has always boiled down
to a weekly battle against mediocrity,
ignorance and typos in headlines.

& Best Wishes!

[We are completing our Ist querter-
century of service from Main St. and
understand a bit of the sense of dedication
and committment required to keep your

great tradition going. }

"A. World of Gifts for Mother's Day”

_ upon beginning 3 4th quarter -
century of community service!

# THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Village aA
110 8. Main &t. Davidson, N.C.

e

128 S. Main St. © P.O. Box 893 ©

Open Faces orca ag 10-4.
.. Davidson's Most Comprehensive Selection

a,

Pst

of

Fine Imported Beers |
Have over 30 different Imports!

Special!

' Buy one yogurt, get one free. :
offer good through the month of April

