14

Wednesday, October 25, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Here’s how a black fraternity could be a bad idea

A friend of mine said, “You're writing about what?
You'll be crucified!” And perhaps she’s right, but here
goes anyway.

Two wecks ago in this newspaper, the issue of a
black fraternity at Davidson was raised in an inter-
view and an opinion piece written by the Kappa
Alpha Psi interest group. Alan Hunter said in
the interview, “How could that be a bad
idea?”

Here’s how.

Simply put, a black fraternity
would segregate the campus. A large
part of racial tension comes from a
lack of communication, aS was
pointed outat the racism seminar last
week. The best way to improve the
lines of communicationis to encourage
fully integrated activities. The best way
to inflame racial tensions is to create organi-
zations drawn on racial lines. One of the best
ways to make black students feel more comfortable is
to get them involved in campus social activities. One
of the best ways to alienate black students is to create
an organization that would perpetuate the “us vs.
them” mindset.

The argument for black fraternities sounds like the
rationale for the “separate but equal” doctrine of
public accommodations that the Supreme Court out+
lawed years ago. It is the antithesis of what the Rev.
Martin Luther King worked toward. It’s hard to be-
lieve that it’s a black group proposing a black frater-
nity here; it sounds more like an idea that would ooze
from the head of a white bigot: “Well, they’re really
not comfortable in our fraternity and we’re not com-
fortable having them here, either, so Iet’s toss ‘em into
one house together.”

Shift the terms of the debate fora minute. Would this
be a better campus if we had a “Yankcet fraternity”?
The cultural background of students from the North is
quite different from that of students from the South.
Yet instead of being an argument for a Yankee frater-

nity, the preceding sentence is a powerful statement
of why weshouldn’thaveone. My experience
here has been greatly enhanced because
of my contact with Southern students.
I feel I better understand the South,
although I’m in no danger of losing
my own Yankee roots.
’ Bringing a “black fraternity”
here is offensive because it strongly
implies that the fraternities already
here are “white fraternities” and that
blacks are not welcome within them.
That the fraternities existing here al-
ready are “white fraternities” is not the
case, any more than Davidson is a “white
school” in a “white higher-education system” in a
“white country.”
_ I deeply resent the implication in the interest
group’s commentary that only fraternity alumni and

_ graduate brothers who had joined a black fraternity

would aid black students. Do the members of the
Kappa: Alpha Psi ‘interest group mean to say that
members of other fraternities would not help black
members of their group, or in other words, that
members of other fraternities are racists? That is a:.
wild, insupportable and false generalization.

~ Like it or not, Davidson College is fairly representa-
tive of the society that Davidson students, white and
black, will enter after graduation. Upon leaving here,
you will probably not work for a company owned by
a black person, anda black person will probably notbe ,

your boss. Your professors in graduate school will
probably not be black. Here at Davidson, your closest
friends are probably not black, unless you are black.
That's the current situation; the only way to change it
is to.deal with it, not hide from it. Segregating the
campus with a black fraternity is hiding from reality.
It cuts off the opportunity for greater racial harmony.
I challenge the assertion that the brothers of a black
fraternity would encourage those black students who
want tojoin one of the other fraternities to do'so. Some
members of the Black Student Coalition already ac-
tively discourage black students from joining fraterni-
ties; would this get better if a black fraternity arrived?
Black fraternities were founded at black colleges
and universities ina segregated era when blacks were
not permitted to attend other schools or join other
fraternities. Those fraternities did not serve “black
interests” per se; they served the needs of the students
at those colleges and universities, all of whom were
black. The era of segregation in our higher-education
system is over, and so should it be for our social
groups. eae

eoe
A note on last week’s column: : :

° * While Professor Ratliff was fifth inthe top five in

_ $alaries,from the college in-fiscal year 1987, he’s paid
onanine-month schedule (asare all professors), while
_theotherson the list work twelve months a year. If his

nine-months’ salary ($59,600).were stretched to 12, it
would come to $79,466: Figure in that all professors
are entitled to one-year sabbaticals every seven years,
and the salary. to compare with the others wag be
$90,819 per yeas! Zounds. |. a

Leff Tey CODON pie

Pre- Doctoral, Fosition.

{ WHGA sonic aere

WOKS

roliw ae

MLE. 2 ae DIBWE | Eoin

Molecular, Chemical, & Genetic -c Analysis
of the Chemical-Biologic
Interactions Related to Cancer &

| Genetic Disease

Whitaker College of Health Sciences and Technology
Graduate Program in Toxicology

Faculty Area of Interest

John M. Essigmann DNA Repair and mutagenesis

. Gastrointestinal microflora
& endogenous carcinogens

James G. Fox

Steven R. Tannenbaum Chemistry of macromolecular

adducts; nitric oxide

Mutational spectra; mechanisms é&
genetic epidemiology

William G. Thilly

DNA adducts & genetic change in
carcinogenesis

Gerald N. Wogan

Helmut Zarbl Transformation effector &
suppressor genes, oncogenes;

gene expression

Full support (stipend and tuition) is offered to all accepted candidates. For | program

information and an application, CONTACT: Debra A. Luchanin, Academic .
Admistrator, Division of Toxicology, Room 16-330, M.1.T.,. Cambridge, MA .

MIT is an Equal Opportunity Employer,

Excellent
Hawaii, daha
CALL NO

: Cruise Ship Tabs \Jo
HIRING Men - Women. Summer/

Year Round. PHOTOGRAPHERS,

GUIDES, RECREATION PERSONNEL,

pay plus FREE travel. Caribbean,

as, eee Pacific, Mexico.

! Call refundable.

: Nan oe en 1-206-736-0775, ean

