~ Condom Controversy Continues!

The Davidsonian

Volume LXXX, Number 20

Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina 28036

Thursday, March 9, 1989

A diplomat’s thoughts on The Satanic Verses and the world

Jack Perry, director of Dean Rusk Program, meets the press

By JAY CHAUDHURI

If ever a book stirred the world,
itis Salman Rushdie’s The Satanic
Verses. The Ayatollah Khomeini,
Iran’s. religious leader who has
charged the novel as blasphemous
and an insult to Islam, has offered
a bounty of as much as $5.2 mil-
lion to Rushdie’s assassin. In reac-
tion, the Western world, including
the 12 members of the European
Community, have withdrawn their
top diplomats from Teheran.
There have been also been anti-
Rushdie protests in India and Paki-
stan. In the meantime, The Satanic
Verses has become a sudden best-
seller. _

To shed some light on that

which has created so much heat,
The Davidsonian talked to former
ambassador Jack Perry, director of
Davidson’s Dean Rusk program.

Davidsonian: As we all know,
Rushdie’s book has caused a great
deal of Islamic outrage; it has af-
fected both Iran and the rest of the
world. Considering first the inter-
nal turmoil of Iran, is the Ayatol-
lah’s declaration of Rushdie’s

_ death a reaction toward the “liber-

als” of the country, those who have
been trying to strengthen diplo-
matic and economic ties with the
West in order to resurrect Iran’s
disastrous economy?

Ambassador Perry: There is no

doubt that the Iranian Revolution
needs some fresh fuel. Any revolu-
tion tends to run down after a
while, and opponents rise up and
there is struggle for power. As the
Ayatollah gets older, it’s obvious
that he has to struggle to maintain
the purity of what he considers his
revolution. And so I do think that a
very important element in this
whole scene is this is ammunition
for him to use against his enemies
to show that he is the Defender of.
the Faith.

At the same time you have to
compare it a little bit with the tak-
ing of the hostages, when they
seized the embassy, because that
was an internal matter, too. And

yet, it does have international
implications. Both are rather simi-
lar in that Khomeini both times
went against the usual norms of
international diplomacy: most of
us don’t seize embassies, and most
of us don’t condemn authors we
don’t like to death. The interna-
*tional part is shocking; the domes-
tic partis the way revolutions work
out, I guess.

Davidsonian: Touching upon the
so-called “norms of international
diplomacy” you mentioned, Brit-
ish Foreign Secretary Geoffrey
Howe has said, “Nobody has the
right to incite people to violence.
We want serious and stable rela-

tions with Iran. But [that] will not
be possible while Iran fails to re-
spect international standards of
behavior.” Is there actually an in-
ternational standard or norm of
behavior, or does the Western re-
action toward the Ayatollah still
represent the fact that there is a
cultural gap between the East and
West?

Ambassador Perry: My own
opinion is that there are still some

_ Standards of international behav-

ior. For example, I don’t think that
you would have seen Saddam

See PERRY, page 2

Former Daddeon trustee
-head Warner Hall dies

Charlotte minister was fighter for civil rights

By MARGARET CARROLL

Warner Hall, a Davidson College trus-
tee for twenty-eight years—the last ten
years as chairman—died. on Monday
after a prolonged illness. Throughout his
life, Hall fervently fought against segre-
gation from his pulpit at Covenant Pres-
byterian Church and in meetings with
community leaders.

Hall came to Charlotte in 1946 as min-
ister of Covenant Presbyterian Church,
where he served as pastor until 1971
when he became executive director of
the Presbyterian Foundation.

From 1965-77 Hall served as chair-
man of Charlotte’s Community Rela-
tions Committee, through which he took
an active role in bettering race relations
in Charlotte. Hall was chairman of the
committee when it was debating the
subject of scattered-site public housing.

On Tuesday The Charlotte Observer
reports one incident in which a public of-
ficial questioned Hall about people of
different races and financial back-
grounds living together in the same
neighborhood. Hall responded, “I’ve

lived on Queens Road for many years,

and there is a black community only a
few blocks away, and we have never had
the slightest problem. These things can

be done if we make up our minds it’s
what we need to do.” 3
After the assassination of Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., Hall was instrumental
in Charlotte’s avoiding outbursts of vio-
lence that were occurring in other major
cities across the nation. By establishing
communication between black leaders
and city officials, Hall helped Charlotte

“to escape the rage.

Hall was born in Tennessee and re-
ceived his Ph.D. from Edinburgh, his
D.D. from Southwestern in Memphis
and his L.H.D. from St. Andrews Col-
lege and Davidson College. Hall was in
1961 the founding father of St. Andrews
College in Laurinburg, North Carolina,
which he helped create from a merger of
old Flora MacDonald College in Red
Springs and Presbyterian Junior Col-
lege in Maxton.

Hall served as a St. Andrews trustee
until 1966 and was along time trustee of
Union Theological Seminary in Vir-
ginia. As The Charlotte Observer
notes: “But it was his work in the field
of race relations—his determination to
apply the Christian faith as he under-
stood it to the most troubling moral
issue of his time—that won him the
most admirers and a few bitter critics.”

Former trustee president Warner Hall.

