Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Bush Adminiatantion Takes OFF /

9, °

Por
eo /

Letters
The truth of WDAV

Dear Editor:

I read with some amusement the article
on the January 1989 Update concerning the
“Tenth Anniversary” of the WDAV-FM.
According to my calculations, the station
should’ be celebrating its twentieth anniver-
sary. ‘Sitice Station"N John Clark
was nowhere to be seen in the “dungeon” of
the Student Unions when this station was
built, please allow’ mé to correct his state-
ments regarding the history of WDAV-FM
Iwas there,

That radio station vas Bini oputnnedisii
(to a large extent) paid for by the student”
body of Davidson College over a period of ©
ten years prior to October 1978, when the
Trustées voted to remove the station from
the student body and incorporate it as an

arm of the College’s fundraising efforts.
For the first ten years of its existence, an
all-student volunteer staff manned the
board, assembled the record library, kept
the FCC logs. maintained the equipment,
programmed the jazz, rock, folk, blues,
church, and (yes) classical music, and pro-
vided the management. The station was

entirely funded by the SGA, The College ©

provided the license, the transmitter, and
an “advisor” who, by Jongstanding tradi-
tion, visited the station only once a year.
WDAVY-FM did indeed begin as a “‘car-
rier-current” station operating in the base-
ment of Belk dorm in 1969. The signal was _
“actually carried through the electrical sys-

tems of the dorms. However, in 1973, it
began broadcasting through a 10-watt FM
transmitter to the town of Davidson’ and

surrounding community. . With the wind at’

our back, we could reach Statesville on a
good day. We began broadcasting in stereo

“at the end of the 1975-76 school year.
Sicha airing this Gexiced dias dhebtoads

cast studio was moved to the basement of
the Student Union, Youmay tell Mr. Clark

‘that the “three cramped: rooms” of that

“dungeon” hold wonderful memories for a

ey lot of Davidson students. Iam reminded of

the time, during the height of the contro-
versy over who would control the station,
that Tim Robinson ’79 played “Springtime
for Hitler” with a dedication to then-Presi-
dent Sam Spencer.

There was always the occasional fresh-
man who forgot which Frank Zappa cuts
were “not for air-play”.. The search for
extra long-playing track for the midnight-
to-two shift when you expected company,
long hours “behind the board”, running
upstairs to grab a hoagie before the song

ended, picking just the right cut to send a

message to someone special, discovering

new worlds of music -- these are experi-_

ences shared by the student staffs of those

years.

Of course, , with student control there
came student politics: One election for

Station manager was'so bitter that the loser —

See WDAV, page 16

Guns

The recent. shooting spree which o oc-
curred at elementary school in California

has prompted me to protest the availability =

of rapid-fire, automatic, military style
_weapons, I can think of no reason why such’

highly destrcutive weapons should be so
‘readily available to ordinary citizens. The ~

number of crimes which has occurredin the
past year concerning the slaughter of inno-
cent people by deranged individuals attests
‘to the fact that the availability ‘of automatic ‘
‘or semi-automatic weapons is both unnec-
Mie al a Coa

~ While it is true that we can neither pre- _

vent these crimes nor can we realistically

ban the sale Of all firearms, it is also true —
‘that many lives could have have been

spared had murderers, such as the ones in

Illinois, South Carolina; and California, —
‘only had access to an ordinary handgun.

For the safety of our society, the ownership
of automatic, rapid-fire weapons should be
confined to those for whom they were de-

signed - the military.

Sincerely,

11

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Muadi Mukenge, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager ;
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers
Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Manager — _Cristin Williams, Production Editor

No “F’s?

The following was kindly sent in to us by senior Romy Cawood
and we thought we’d pass it along to you. The clipping she sent
appeared in the Dec. 4 Dayton Daily News from the Washington
Post wire. Enjoy.

STANFORD, Calif.--During the last two decades, as a flood of applications to
Stanford University set records and news magazines began to call it the best college
in America, this sunny, adobe-brick campus kept a secret.

Perhaps university officials felt that strangers would not understand why
Stanford, with a faculty full of Nobel laureates and a student body accustomed to
academic challenges, never gives anybody an F.

Fill your final English examination with erotic doodles, sleep through every
chemistry lab, and no one, particularly not future weer or graduate schools,
will ever hear about it.

The failing aocie receives no credit, but even that fact 3 is not entered on the
transcript. ;

Unfortunately, this has led to some abuses, andin tum to an unexpected outbreak
of faculty discontent with the whole idea.

, Stanford junior Alicia Kerit said that students in real dander of getting even a €

or D write a note in their blue books asking the professor to fail them, so that no

grade will appear on their record.

Back in 1969 the Faculty Senate banned both F’s and D’s to lessen the pressures
of the difficult courses; The D was revived in 1975.

- Unexpected controversy over the “no-F” rule followed release of a report by the
‘University Committee on Academic Appraisal and Achievement.

Inasurveyitasked faculty members whether they still like the ban onF’s. In catty
November the committee reported the results: two-thirds of 404 professors

responding said‘the F would be part of their ideal grading system.

The committee, in reporting this to the Faculty Senate, despaired over this
surprising reversal. Reviving the F “would unfortunately, and perhaps danger-
ously, ‘moralize’ the practice of grading; it would create a ‘scarlet letter’ within the
grading system,” the committee report said.

- The Faculty Senate i is pened to consider the no-F i issue next year.

