Features

The Davidsonian
Thursday, March 2, 1989

Women’s history month
calendar

Women’s History Month at Davidson
College celebrates the success and pride of
campus women in a series of lectures by
distinguished faculty, students and friends
of the college. A talk by Jean O’Barr,
director of women’s studies at Duke Uni-
versity, headlines a calendar packed with
workshops, discussions and films about
women. Some upcoming events are:

Tuesday, March 7

¢ Students of “Visionary Women Writers”
present a lecture on “Mystical Women” at
11 a.m. in Chambers Gallery.

¢ Bridget Hill, British specialist in
women’s history, speaks on “Doing
Women’s History” at 7:30 pm. in the 900
Room of the College Union.

Thursday, March 9
¢ Music professor Yvonne Kendall gives a
presentation on “Hildegarde von Bingen:

Mystic and Musician” at 11 a.m. in Cham-
bers Gallery.

¢ Irwin Carmichael, defensive tactics in-
structor for the Charlotte Police Depart-
ment, teaches “Self Defense for Women”
at 5 p.m. and 7 p.m. in the Big Screen Room
of the.College Union.

Monday, March 13

¢ Aurie Hall, a Davidson graduate and
lawyer with the American Civil Liberties
Union, speaks on “The Status of Reproduc-
tive Rights For Women” at 4 p.m. in the
900 Room of the College Union.

Tuesday, March 14

¢ Jean O’Barr presents the keynote speech
for Women’s History Month at 7:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room of the College Union. The
title of the lecture is “The Necessity of
Women’s Studies in Liberal Arts Educa-
tion.”

Pr:

* Davidson’s Dance *tehape will hold
its annual performance on Saturday,
March 4 at 7:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

variety of dance--j ger ballet and mod-
The  Tecsine was ; fonded by
former student Paulette Kurani in 1984.

~ Its membership has grown and now

' walbe, a senior. The troupe serves those
students who have. always loved to
BP. jeden gmeadeny Bolas

forthe first time,

BitsofAr

Admission is free, The show features ee
chamber music. But it’ 8 difficult to find 4
_. people who have the commitment ae :

‘stances under which it was written. 2

involves ‘about 20 active members -
working under director Elisabeth Sch-

“This. piece is so powerful: ee
wanted to do it for 14 years now,” he —
said. “I’ve never heard anything like it.
It’s one of the giants of 20th century

technique to handl¢ it. © Be
-“You must remember sis eden

ie K patie of Chiou municidos th - Ch
seperti! Gace aay "ers wi

Women’s Month a time to
address student concerns

By LIZ YAREMA

The month of March is upon us and with
it comes Davidson’s celebration of 15
years of women as official members of the
student body. For you see, besides being
the time earmarked as “spring break,”
March is also Women’s History Month.

In a gala campus-wide celebration the
college will host speakers at numerous
films, open lunches, exhibits and other
events in hopes of sparking discussion and
debate on women’s issues.

Organizers call the project “Women at
Davidson: A Tradition of Excellence.”
Sponsors include the Women’s Concerns
Committee, Cinema Classics, Campus
Forum and the Alumni Lecture Series.
They have worked together to draw energy
and enthusiasm for the month from as
many parts of the campus as possible.

Even professors are getting into the
spirit of things. By focusing on feminine
elements in classroom lectures and discus-
sions, professors hope to raise students’
awareness of women’s issues and con-
cems. -

Classes will address a variety of inter-
ests: something for students with passions
for music as well as art, science as well as
philosophy, sports, literature, international
studies--and just about anything else. You
get the picture.

Why bother? Why does women’s history
merit an entire month of events? Might a
separate month dedicated specifically for

‘-women further delineate differences be-

tween women-as-a-minority?

Although statistically females may not
be a minority, some students and faculty
say that as far as society’s treatment and
perception of women goes, they are unfor-
tunately still very much a minority.

Patricia’s Peeves:

History professor Sallie McMillan, who
currently teaches Davidson’s pioneer
women’s studies class, believes that al-
though society has made many advances
towards equality between the sexes, much
more is left to do.

She cites some examples: help for two-
career families, equal pay for equal worth,
a woman’s personal liberty over her own
body, and corporate “glass ceilings” that
deny women the opportunity for advance-
ment past certain levels in the business.

“Women still have to fight discrimina-
tion in too many aspects of their lives,” she
says. A student in her class comments,
“Especially here at Davidson. When you
say ‘Women’s Concerns’ or start talking
about stuff dealing with women today,
others look at you like you’re from outer
space or like they expect to see you on T.V.
at some bra-burning rally.

“It’s sad how many closed minded
people there are among the students and the
faculty,” the student says.

Another person asks, “Can’t they see that
women aren’t the issue at all, that what
we’re really talking about is basic human-
ity and equality for everyone?” Equality is
the ultimate goal of Women’s History
Month according to several ‘organizers of
“A Tradition of Excellence.”

They hope that someday a month set
aside especially for women will be unnec-
essary, that issues and perceptions con-
cerning women will be | so well integrated .
into Davidson life that-a special’ month
would seem redundant. For now they are
marking their calendars and counting on
the belief that education is one of the best
ways to dispel myths and prejudices that
could harm society.

Just don’t even say it...

Pondering the possibilities for this
week’s column, I turned to my roommate
studying at her desk and said, “Hey, what
about an article concerning people who
clean under their fingernails
while they’re standing over
your bed? I really hate that.
Think anyone would read
it?”

After a long silence, the
Queen of Concentration
mumbled, “In a minute, I’m
almost done.” That’s’all she
has to say, I found my topic.
You see, “In a minute,” and “I’m almost
done,” are two of my most. despised
phrases.

There are a lot of obnoxious phrases in
the world, we all remember, “You’re grow-
ing like a weed!” and “Have a nice day.”
Yet, there are some precious quotes that
simply make my skin crawl. I’ll share some
of them with you.

If I ask a friend when they are going to

_repay the five dollars I loaned them, they.

would do well not to respond, “Whien I get
around to it.” Not only does this response
dredge up memories of tacky wooden
circles with “This is aRound Tuit” painted
on them, it also makes me want to charge
interest.

When I get two A’s, a B+ and aB for the

semester--and I’m ecstatic--I don’t want

the girl down the hall to look at me and say,
“I’m so happy for you.” It’s not like I can
respond, “Yeah, me too.” It leaves me with
nothing to do but feel dumb.

Then there are pick-up
lines. Guys, refrain from
ever starting aconversation
with, Has anyone ever told
you...” °This only works
with Queenies.

I hate people who mak
me aside and whisper,
“We've got to talk some-
time.” If you really want to
talk to me, find me when I’m alone and
start talking. Nothing annoys me more than
trying to pay attention in class and devote
myself to work when I’m expecting to find
out something awful in the near future.

- T’ve also been accosted with, “You'll
understand when you get to be my age.”
Now, this phrase was'bad enough when my
grandmother used it-But there are students, _
sometimes no more than a class ahead of
me, who will look me straight in the eye _
and explain that as soon as’I live a little
longer, God will enlighten m me. and Twill see
things their way.

Now maybe I just don’t like people who
have trouble with white lies, but when Tbuy_

See PEEVES, page 5

aia i A lb lia ak th AA AA DAMA NE BU RDM EO 8 ARMOR ORO OPE LL ET TILES ESTEE 58)
