“Integrity” drove Trump to
respect Title LX statutes!

By BOURGOI Z

In compliance with Title IX
requirements, the college has announced
the addition of two women’s sports to the
current varsity program. Mud wrestling
and roller derby teams will be established
in time for Division III competition i in the

Spring semester.

Title IX requires that colleges receiving federal
funds allocate an equal amount of money to both
women’s and men’s sports. According to Director
of Athletics Christopher B. “Nine Lives” Morris,
“the former corrupt Davidson administration did
not fully comply with this rule, especially in light of
the fact that enrollment ratios favored men but funds
for the two'sexes would have to be the same.”

New college owner Donald Trump said
that it was ime to invest in quality sports and
to respect the college’s commitment to
integrity. He added that mud wrestling and
roller derby allow students to exert
themselves as well as to get in touch with
their deepest emotions.

Twins Rebecca and Betsey, secret roller derby queens, shocked the campus when they announced their
decision, at the same time, in unison, to quit their present coaching positions and join Trump’s team!

The college anticipates providing
scholarships for incoming women wrestlers
and skaters, the only athletes to be extended
that privilege. Recruitment plans have been
made to target Texas and California high
school girls. Trump has allocated $1 million
to ensure that these girls are courted and

wooed.

Facilities for the new sports will costan
approximate $3 million. Two mud wrestling
arenas will be installed in the middle of
Patterson Court. According to Morris this
central location will promote student
attendance at sports events. A roller derby

skating rink will be built in Johnston Gym.
Morris anticipates proceeds from both
sports to be quite high.
“Rich people like dirty sports which
build character,” he said.

HUSSEY TO
RETURN AS
WOMEN’S
BASKETBALL

COACH! —

“Philosophical differences”

reconciled
By NOH WEI :
Bobby Hussey isreturning to Davidson to.
coach the newly created “Trumpettes”
women’s basketball team. .
“T look at this as a new challenge. “Maybe I can

figure out when to call a time out if I don’ thave all of
those bigtall g ay standingi in front of me,” said Hussey. :

Trump said he will also
fill the swimming pool with
mud, fly in the best mud
wrestlers in the world on the
Trump Shuttle and have the
first ever team mud wrestling
tournament. “It’s anideal’ve
been flirting with for quite a
while now, and I’ve finally
got the perfect place todoit,”

' Trump said.”

Trump added that overweight

amateurs are also invited to

$$$Doing it up big
Trump Keeps the
natives happy!

By MARY FARLING

ISS

Donald Trump announced his plans for the opening ceremonies of the
Trump Sports Complex (formerly Baker Sports Complex) in a recent
press conference. Trump said, “This is my first real venture in the South,
and I want to entertain Southerners with an event that makes them feel at
home. So, I’ve scheduled a tractor pull.”

participate in the mud wrestling. “I
like thinking big. If you’re going to
be thinking anyway, you might as
well think big.”

The tractor pull will feature
Thunder Trump and The Trump
Trooper. “These vehicles are on
the cutting edge of technology. I
assure you that they will be the
loudest you’ve ever heard and
they’ll kick up more mud than
anything on the circuit,” Trump
pledged.

Speaking of circuits, Trump
plans to make the Trump Sports

Salvador.

Devastating
explosion!

Going out with a bang!
In a minor development yesterday, the old but not

forgotten Johnston Gym exploded. Onlookers muttered
something about a proves over. political prisoners in El

In an unrelated incident, angry members of nae Intemational,
tired of having sparsely populated meetings, charged the stage at the
Rights of Spring concert. Heebie Jeebies lead singer Mike Pearce’s voice
box wasinjured. “That’s okay nobody will tell, he actually sounds alittle
better,” quipped guitarist Julian Cochran.

Complex a regular: stop on the
tractor pull circuit. ““Youcan never
get too much of a good thing,” he
said.

Asked whether or not he will
attempt to make team mud
wrestling a genuine sport, Trump
said, “I doubt it. really don’t want
to pursue anything that will not
have the potential of being an
Olympic event. Right now there is

-just too much competition from

synchronized swimming. Olympic
Officials have told me mud
wrestling and synchronized
swimming would just divide
spectator interest. People just
wouldn’ tbe able to decide between
them.”

After the opening ceremonies
Trump plans to expand the sports
complex. “We'll tear down’ a
couple of walls the day after the
opening. The current structure is
just too small. We have to look to
the future. With theregionalappeal —
of tractor pulling we could sell out
Trump Sports Complex until who
knows when,” Trump said.
