12

Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The tap Stary taday

__ Due * ater whaling studevt + support * the —hasrnan fesources committee has determined trata. condom
machine does nat provide enough options ta <tudents. Complete ‘Gas Stationazation" of Davidson will
include a greater choice. —Vy-tt _

coo

“for when gu | Hf Sandwiches | Bud?
= fuel se"! Chocolcte goood ight | Prejrancg | STALLS
bla | Cigarettes... rg are | Condoms oO0OQ0c}| tig Tests HIS
a %. otter viacds” ras on Morgan ems, 4 ond 4 O ae “re see | of “Oo “he Bellen ar Fain
aa ODDAOUTOT that ‘ "S|" for Feeling in. love“ omy 2 Cl Cc ral ‘oO relief)
, im} @ 2 ean oe tee %
ISG ,| New easyyto-open pouches eon wes may rot use
nave Oo Ip

alsa...

station's

WALT promoters of Fi ‘cial (y

re leased “the last noume of our radio

Yes

mascot -- Godot

Mier

[EAVIFEAN AEM Tab awareness weelerd seemed to be

a huge Success. Ns

Dont -you know thet Styrofoam

is terrible for our

Px vironment?
‘eae v4 en
° Sy c m meet
RI .

( Sturefoom
Urton Poth)

\_\)

eel

BN \

aTher

into alternative plans.

news today
The trustees, uncertain as to whether |
to keep the lamp or abolish i are looking

Come.

Yo, Cal, I dot han

with lamps ! What
he Stotts krttingo

our Women

One suggestect idea is to drop him out of Freddie to a class TT
Here are the candidotes: ,

How con be swe yor
weren't sent to
irradiofe me?

a a a
Kinda lonely —

QUEENERS, from page 6

Other students point to better food and
more relaxed rules as benefits of coeduca-
tion.

Sophomore Sarah Taylor said, “The food
has gotten better, the facilities are better and
we’ re getting more sports to get more boys
and girls to the college.

“We’re having more fun; there are more
parties on campus. We don’t have to drive
out to Davidson for entertainment any-
more.”

The first-semester freshman curfew re-
quiring students to return to the dorms by 1
a.m. on weeknights and 2 a.m. on weekends
has been abolished. Visitation rules have
been extended to midnight on weeknights
and, according to several students, are not
enforced at all in the male dorms.

Several students lamented the passing of
the concept of the all-female school. How-

ard said, “I’m glad I had the experience of
going to an all-girls’ school. It was just a
neat thing. A lot of girls in high school
would hang out with only guys. When I got
to Queens it was the first time I had girl
friends. It gives you more confidence in
yourself-- you can be you.”

Another student agreed. “No one goes to
classes in pajamas anymore,” she said.

Wood said, “The decision to go coed was
a hard one, it was met by tears, especially
from alumni and some seniors, but it has
gone extremely smoothly.”

Woody O’Cain, assistant director of
admissions, said that Wireman’s plan is to
get the college to. a 50-50 level over the next
eight years and to increase the size of each
freshman class to 220 overall, a 37 percent
increase. A recent press release regarding a
gift to the college characterized Queens as
“fully coed.”

O’Cain said it was “doubtful,” although
possible, that Queens would dip under 50

percent female.

Taylor said she was comfortable with the
pace by which Queens is integrating. “If it
took longer, there would be more com-
plaints. I never wanted to go to an all-girls’
school, anyway,” she added.

Wood said that recruiting males to attend
Queens was “not as much of a problem as I
thought it would be. The mission of the
college was always appropriate to both
sexes.” She remarked that the male students
seem to enjoy the odds, the almost 15-1 ratio
they find on campus.

O’Cain’s sole duty last year was to recruit
male students to Queens. He said it was a
matter of selling Charlotte, the academics
and the reputation of the school to male
applicants. Adams said, “I feel comfortable
at a primarily girls’ school.” Adams said
that Queens small size produced some dis-
comfort, though.

With the advent of males at Queens, the

college has decided to go heavily into

sports: itnow has a tennis team, and basket-
ball, club soccer and possibly golf are
planned for next year, according to O’Cain.

Thenew emphasis on sports has produced
avery visible manifestation of the change in
the selection of a mascot. Administrators
decided in February to make an apparently
male lion Queen’s firstmascot, achoice that
irritated many female students.

Jenkins said, “I don’t think the name is
female. I’m sorry, but I don’t know many
girls named Rex. Ithas no mane, which says
to me it’s female, but it’s a very male-
looking lion.”

While several students were unsure
whether or not the mane was merely an
oversight, they seemed willing to give the
college the benefit of the doubt on the mas-
cot. But as sophomore Ann Taylor said,
“We wouldn’t have one at all if the guys
weren’t here.”

IMACtion, from page 10

They certainly have the potential to win
again, despite an earlier regular season loss
to the Old Men.

Picking a winner from this field would be
a challenge. Based on the regular season
only, the two perennial powerhouses over
the past three years have been the Master-
Batters and Coach’s Last Stand. Both have

-only one regular season loss over that time

span. However, both have also had diffi-
culty at tournament time. IMAC softball is
very mucha game of streaks, and more than
likely this year’s champ will be one of
better-than-average teams who peak at tour-
namenttime,

As the season closes with the final sport,
watch for the underdog, the Box Seekers, to
take home the title.

LAX, from page 9

with their sidewalk driving and beer can-
throwing tactics.

Playing with only one extra line of mid-
dies is like riding into battle with only the
baggage train in reserve. Everybody plays
more than they wantto. Seth Force hada big
game anchoring the defense. The recent
initiate into manhood, Phil Degnan, had a

good game, while the melonball shooter,
Huber, was firing away with the night be-
fore determinedly forgotten. Brian Keller
stepped into the defense for the first time
and did a great job. Ned Carroll turned his
masseuse-like hands to good use handling
the stick.. In the end it was Tennessee 8,

‘Davidson 5, with goals from Crystal and

Tregoe. On Saturday the team plays Greens-
boro, away, and then on Sunday we take on
Duke here at 2 p.m.

1

GIFT, from page 11

due to lack of funds or low priority on
Davidson’s list.

‘The first vote on the gift iantiwied the
possibilities to a faculty research grant and
service scholarship. The faculty research
grant was a good idea. As pointed out by
some faculty, however, they can get the
money they need for research. If other gifts
were important to you, did you vote? If you
did vote, did you encourage your friends to
vote?

The service scholarship will enable

people to become involved in their commu-
nities and to learn from their experiences in
helping others. We should feel proud to
leave such a legacy. This gift shows that we
care about the world around us and want to
make a difference. The experiences people
gain from this scholarship will have a more
profound effect and last longer than a statue
ever could.

Barbara Matheny
CHILLY, from page 11

Aids, condoms and other health items; dis-
tribution at the beginning of the year; and

condom machines.

The committee, after investigating these
and other options and consulting students,
will make a recommendation to the Presi-
dent of the college. He will make the deci-
sion, and I think he will be receptive to
student viewpoint on the issue.

I encourage all of you to contact your .

SGA senators or myself and let us know
how you feel about this. We want to recom-
mend the option that best serves student
needs, and we can only determine that

_ “through your input and discussion.

- Tripp Helms, SGA President

MASCOT, from page 11.

fondly dubbed the “Gnome Dome”; spirited
fans from all over the area throng into the
stands in their ted pointed hats. Down the
court gaily skips the DAVIDSONGnome
in a bright blue suit, leading them in the
swelling cheer, “Pointed hats is where it’s _
at!” Gentlemen, this is unity. -

Sincerely,

Sarah Robinson -
John Sillars
