Xi

“weight gain, ernst igen, sig abrengebar ste fet ng 4
McCrary the first Wednesday afternoon of each month. Cutest 2000510 :
sche. yegmmpmer The teat Bese at ee ee a

: é ay

-C. Shaw Smith Award nominations se :
Faculty, staff and students are requested to nominate individuals forthe C. Shaw

phat SPO ge Pagans

Spam

aS ent Ae

Thursday, February 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN
af

‘Beyond Davidson

Tower nomination stalls; North’s trial begins, S&L platy hit

By HOLLY HAYES
Washington: Allegations of per-
sonal misconduct during the Ge-
neva arms control negotiations
have continued to hold up the
nomination of John Tower as
Secretary of Defense. Sam Nunn
(D. Ga.), head of the Armed Serv-
ices Committee, has stated that
barring the revelation of incrimi-
nating evidence, Tower’s nomi-
nation will be voted on by the end
of this week. The most extensive
FBI investigation ever of a cabi-
net appointee failed to turn up any
illegal business or political deal-
ings. However, questions remain
concerning Tower’s 1981 profits
from a lucrative oil investment
that he gained with help from a

Texas lawyer whose son he later
nominated to the federal bench.

After weeks of legal debate that
centered on jury selection and the
treatment of classified docu-
ments, the trial of Oliver North
began on Tuesday. Over the
prosecution’s objections, Attor-
ney General Dick Thornburgh
retains the power to censor evi-
dence that may be deemed detri-
mental to national security as well
as the power to dismiss at any
time any or all 12 felony charges
against North on national security
grounds. Government officials
fear that North may reveal sensi-
tive or embarrassing state infor-
mation during the course of the
trial proceedings.

President Bush, a_ lifetime
member of the National Rifle
Association, stated this week that
he would oppose any legislation
to ban the import of Soviet-made
semiautomatic AK47s to the U.S.
Bush called on states to enforce
tougher penalties against crimi-
nals whom he identified as the
real threat rather than sanctioning
weapons sales. Semiautomatics
have been used with increasing
regularity in gang warfare and
drug dealings and have sparked an
intensification of gun control ac-
tivity all over the country.
Louisiana: David Duke, a former
Ku Klux Klan Grand Wizard run-
ning under the Republican Party
banner was elected by the resi-

dents of Louisiana’s 81st district
to the state legislature ‘on Satur-
day. Duke’s victory :is being chal-
lenged by both the Republican
Party, which in an unprecedented
move vowed to censure his elec-
tion, and by a group of concerned
citizens who claim Duke violated
the state’s residency require-
ments for running for public of-
fice. The former Klansman’s win
has outraged the nation’s civil
rights groups who support efforts
to remove Duke from office.

Banking: Bush’s billion dollar
savings and loan bailout plan has
come under recent attack, Critics
claim the program is seriously
flawed and will require more
money than the proposed $50 bil-

The Candidates Sp

SGA candidates were invited to write a short piece on their candid
Tripp Helms is running unopposed for president, and chose not to ‘share
the four running for vice-president returned the following:

idacy fo

his choice wor

ba. b

chairmen working
alone or witha few

William Brewer

My decision to run for SGA Vice-Presi-
dent stems from my interest in student
concems, my desire fora strong SGA com-
mittee system, and my ability to work well
with others. .

Having served as a Junior Class Senator
during the past year, I recognize that ad-
dressing matters of student concem is one
of the most important keys to a successful
SGA. I have served on ad-hoc committees
investigating the Davidson housing prob-
lem and evaluating the semester system.
The knowledge and experience I have
gained of these and other SGA issues are
invaluable tools that an SGA Vice-Presi-
dent must have in his or her role as a liaison
between the administration and the student
body.

One of the principal duties of the SGA
Vice-President is to coordinate the opera-
tions of the eleven SGA committees. Hav-
ing been an active participant in SGA
committee work since my freshman year, I
believe that I have the experience and in-
sight necessary to effectively guide the
committees in the next year. I plan to ap-
point a group of committee chairpersons
who represent a varied cross-section of the
student body and will stress increased par-
ticipation by all students in SGA. The true
success and strength of a student govem-
ment is marked by broad student participa-
tion.

I believe that I have a strong ability to
cooperate and communicate well with dif-
ferentmembers of the campus community-
-an invaluable asset in any SGA leadership
role. I currently serve as a student member
onthe Admissions Faculty Advisory
Council and the Dean Rusk Advisory
Board. I have also served in leadership
roles in my fraternity and other social
groups on campus, and have been involved
with the YSSC. Through my varied in-
volvement, I have come into contact with

all components of the Davidson College _

community--students, faculty, administra-
tors, and staff--and feel that I have estab-
lished strong working relationships with
each. I know how to be a leader as well as
~ a follower, while always remaining a team
player.

Dan Bruton

I have to admit that when I was first
asked to write about myself and my reasons
for wanting to become vice president of the
SGA I was, to say the least, a bit nervous. I
wasn’t sure what I needed to say to make
the student body understand who I am and
wiiat I stand for. Aftermuch contemplation
I decided that what’s most important is that
I simply be myself. For you are voting for a
fellow student whom you think can get the
job done, not someone who hides’ behind
the facade of lofty speech and false ideas of
grandeur.

I view the SGA as a vehicle by which
everyone in the student body can get more
involved in campus-wide activities and
help to make changes for the betterment of
the college. Every student is not only al-
lowed to be a working part of the SGA, but
is highly encouraged to do so. The purpose
of the Senate and its committees is to con-
tribute to the welfare of the student body,
and I can see no better way to promote the
good of the school and its students than
having widespread student involvement,
For the important part of the SGA is not in
the meetings, but what actions get done as
a result. In short, I see the SGA not as a
small number of executives and senators
doing every little thing, but as a window to
the student body in which everyone can
and should contribute.

Unfortunately, visions and reality don’t
always agree, and it appears that such is the
case for my idea of proper student govem-
ment. It seems to me that the same names
are always on the SGA ballots and that the
same people always get elected. If these are
the people that the student body wants
elected, then so be it. I, however, feel that
this is not the case and that the reason the
same people always get elected is because
of a lack of ccnp eeer sts student in-
volvement.

vice president. I feel the time is right for me

to begin to do more in the community ,

around me. I feel, however, that it is not
enough for just one person to make a
change, but that it-is the job of the entire
student body. If you are interested-in what
Thave to say and wish to see a new face in
the SGA vote for me, Dan Bruton; if not,

continue to vote for one of my opponents.

Caroline Buxton

I am Caroline Buxton, a junior from
Sumter, South Carolina. Having served as
Senator for Wamer Hall fortwo years gives
me a great deal of experience necessary to
effectively serve as Vice President of the
SGA. This experience has allowed me to
see many of the innerworkings not only of
the Senate but of Davidson College as a
whole, and it has also given me a clear
understanding of the needs of students both
on and off Patterson Court. As an instructor
and as the co-director of the Community
Youth Arts Program, Ivalso have experi-
ence dealing with the community sur-
rounding the College by teaching art and
drama to children in the community.

Besides assisting the SGA President, the
role of the Vice President includes select-
ing chairpersons for the various SGA
committees. These committees are crucial
to the success of SGA policies, recommen-
dations, and functions. Therefore it is vital
that the Vice President chooses devoted,
responsible peopleto chairthé Committees.
As a Senator, and more imj y, asa
member of the student body of Davidson

College,.1 have the experience and the ~

dedication required to serve as Vice. Presi-
dent of the SGA.

Tim Sparks -

The Vice President of the SGA is a job
with great responsibility. All committee -
posts of the SGA are appointed by the Vice
President. The essential part of the SGA’s
work is done on the committee level, there-
fore the committees need to reflect the will
of the students.

The preamble to the SGA bylaws states
that it is the responsibility of the SGA “To
provide a mechanism for recognizing the

‘ . collective voice of the students,” and, “To
This is why Iam running forthe office of -

implement student directives.” I feel the
best way to accomplish those tasks is
through the SGA committees, The Senate

consists of those students who are elected’

to represent the student body. Committees
should then be used to expand the Senate
and reach out to the entire school. Active
SGA committees composed of many

people are what we need, not just dedicated

people.

There
are some committees with high visibility
and can show impressive results, while
others are inherently less visible. Many
committee chairmen have mentioned that
it is hard to obtain student participation. If
I were Vice President I would increase the
visibility of all SGA committees, so that
they could do the most good for the great-
est number of people. The Vice President

lion from bond sales and-$40 bil-
lion cost of. .rescuing ‘insolvent
S&Ls. Economists predict that by
1991, the S&L crisis could return.
Until then, interest rates are ex-
pected to fall, deposits in savings
institutions will increase and gov-
ernment revenue from these de-
posits will increase as well.

In Brief: A coalition of groups
backed by the American Medical
Association has proposed an ex-
tensive Medicaid overhaul that
would expand benefits to 11 mil-
lion:more Americans. This move
was undertaken to eliminate dis-
parities among current recipients
of aid and to correct inefficien-
cies.

must keep a vigilant watch over the com-
mittees and. keep them working towards
their goals. As VicePresident, I would hold
the SGA committees to abide by their duty
of recognizing the voice of the students and

_ implementing their will.

As chairman of the SGA Ad Hoc Phone
Committee, I know how committee work
canachieve positive results. Having served
on the Senate, I know how it works and
what it can accomplish. I ask then that you
vote for Tim Sparks as Vice President of the
SGA. |

ho are also scholars, and

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Center

, | to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior]

status is required, and graduate study ts available, Students are directly enrolled in their colleges’

* and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S, Col-
Tege'in Oxford. A’special sum:ner session is directed by WISC.

ve INTERN IN
~ WASHINGTON, LONDON |

WISC ers suminer internships with Congres with the White House. with the media and
be ie ar aabrnsi ot ok venga eae var beary vind arg, ae Baal Eaeg hin. 8.
wi

journalists. Similar
Policy imernehipg are offered (with academic credit) in London (Pall. Spring and

WSC Wie
EO/ AA

Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275

apie te in pores
Summer)

International Studies Center
214 usette Ave.. N.E. Suite 230

