(— _
Congratulations!

Fall convocation awards presented

The Goodwin-Exxon Elizabeth Carey Bryan
A d Bennett Stover Cardwell
‘wards: James Raymond Clugston
Established by Henry S. Goodwin Allan Hugh Cole

of the Class of 1930 and Claire

James Reece Combs
Goodwin and funded in part by the

Marion Boyd Gillespie

Exxon Education Foundation, these Therese Marie Gyauch
awards go annually to a sopho- Leigh Baird Hall
more, a junior and asenior ad- Warren Tracy Hankins
judged to exemplify the highest William Franklin Helms, III
standards of character, good Douglas Alan Hicks
sportsmanship, and consideration Lisa Ann Howe
__ of others. Ismat Syed Husain
Joy Danielle Gray 92 . Vanessa Lynn James
Molly Lynne Graver ’91 Katherine Janice Janiec .
Andrew Justin Morgan ’90 Lucia Livingston Kendall
Krista Lee Kirk
Department of the Army Katherine Carpenter Kraemer
° Andrew Justin Morgan
Superior Cadet Awards: ree Makence
MS4 - Catherine Chandler Walters Kenneth David Nazemetz
‘90 : Frank Kenneth Noojin
MS3 - Robert Bentley Lim’91 - ‘Todd Steven Oldenburg
MS2 - John Esselstyn Howell ’92 -. RamonaOliver __
See Uae tae fh aly gubeno on kbolmeN. Oltrogge:...-
.The Alumni Association... ... . ., Jennifer Lanier Payne.
- Freshman Award: William Steward Rawson
Be cada ha John Michael Roach
David Christopher Campbell Harry Grant Schiavi
Alice Catherine Hicks BP Sa
2 illiam Turner Scouten
ASE ee any - Alice Elizabeth Shuffield
See meee tenun Donald Joel Snell, Jr.
Susan Michelle Peppers Thaddeus Jon Stidham
Gz sc: . Matthew Ashley Terrell -
Omicron Delta Kappa Thomas Koodathumannil Thomas -
Recognition: - Margaret Louise Tietgen .
Peter Alexander Bynum Charles Andrew Tysinger
Margaret McQueen Carroll _ Robert Alexander Vest -

' ., James Reece Combs . Seu nit

4. gnoWilliam Byrd WarlickJricisciasb. i

Plans for Davidson’s
“quiet resolve”

By ANDY TYSINGER and
MARY BEAL

As homecoming weekend quickly
approaches, so does the dedication of
Davidson’s new athletic facility, the
Baker Sports Complex. We have
watched it grow into a magnificent
building and patiently put up with
closed roads and other inconveniences
over the past year in anticipation of its
opening. Now we will beable to partake
of the fruits of all this work in one of the
South’s finest athletic complexes.

What many students don’t realize
is that the dedication of the sports
complex is the kickoff of The Campaign
for Davidson, the College’s ambitious
drive to raise $150 million. As it moves
into the 1990s, Davidson faces major
challenges. It must become even more
globaland multicultural initsapproach
to undergraduate education. The Col-
lege has to immerse its students in new

. technologies that will have a great
“impact on life and, learning in the next
century: Davidson must find the deter-
‘mination to confront these challenges
while remaining true to the values and

traditions that have made the College
what it is today.

The Campaign for Davidson seeks
$150 million to support teaching, to
enrich student life, to strengthen aca-
demic resources, to improve facilities
and to strengthen the Annual Fund. Of
the $150 million, $15 million is ear-

marked for annual operating expenses,

$90 million will go toward the endow-
ment and $45 million is designated for
capital projects (please note the figures
below). NN,

This money is crucial to Davidson’s
move into the 1990s. Students should
be aware that the Campaign is not only
animportant part of this year, butit will
bea top priority for the College over the
next several years.

The major event of the kickoff will
be a black tie dinner and dance for
donors, faculty and trusteesin the Baker
Complex on Friday, November 10.
Other activities will also be'taking place
Saturday, including a torch run from
Charlotte to Davidson that will begin
the dedication ceremonies of the Baker
Complex.

The Student Campaign'Committce
is not only trying to inform the student
body about the Campaign, but it is also
enlisting the help of asmany studentsas
possible. The committee needs volun-
teers throughout the evening Friday
and for other activities on Saturday.
Student involvement is essential for the
success of the kickoff and voluntcers
can certainly work at times that would
not interfere with previous homecom-
ing plans. ,

Those interested should contact Liz
Moodie at -2411, Katherine Kraemer at
-6646, or Thurston Cooke at -6400. We
need to support the Campaign, since as

‘ Davidson students we will be the ones

ultimately benefiting the most.

Wg | ‘Marion Boyd Gillespie »»'O Sarah Elizabeth Whitesell
Molly Lynne Graver Mar Adair Woodall:
. Joshua McKinnon Hickman
pc pee Homphries.«-: Professor of the Year
aigteas it sae Awards by the Council
Kent Williams Kercher — - forthe Advancement
Kristi Elaine Kessler |
KristaLee Kirk  -» , a Support of f
Mary Katherine Myatt - ae te ducation: ai
.. Harry Grant Schiavi Julio Jesus Ramirez
Thomas Koodathumannil Thomas
~ Thomas J efferson
if ‘Who’ §WhoAmong | Award: ;
Students in American’) 7 apna by the RobertEarli "} °°
~ Universities and “McConnell Foundation, presented
eri phate annually to a faculty member who
Colleges: by personal influence, teaching,
‘Robert Milam Austell — writing, and scholarship promotes
Brian Henry Asbill the high ideals of Jefferson and —
Tinsley Porter Bates who has given generously and
Mary Gretchen Beal well beyond the call of duty.
James Edward Bradley Louis ja Ortmayer

ing with the faculty in reaching two
goals. “The short term goal,” says
Helms, “is to go back toseven day exam
periods, and the long range goal is to
shorten the length of the semester.”
Nelson admits that it will be diffi-

CALENDAR, from page 1

‘dar reduces the exam period. to six, in-
stead of sevens Gays...

According to Helms, the SGA
unanimously recommended | that ex-
ams be kept at seven days because “itis
asking too much of Davidson students.
They are hard workers, but five exams
in six days is unreasonable.”

~ The SGA hopes to continue work-

faculty because everyone has their own
idea of what best suits their calendar:
“It’s just like being in Congress. Every-
body has their own little bit to defend.”

cult, ifnot impossible, tocreateacalen- =f
dar that pleases all the students: and

Hot news ips messages, complaints?

We're waiting to hear from you. Call us (704) 892-2148 or
write be Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036.

Rath vis AptsUh ai aita?

ety eves!

The Campaign for Davidson

Faculty Endowment

$40,000,000
Professorships, compensation
professional opportunities
~ Student Endowment 25,000,000
Scholarships and student programs
Academic Resources Endowment 25,000,000
_ _ International education, computers,
. library improvements, academic programs
-” Capital Improvements. : 45,000,000
' Academic buildings and renovation,
Baker Sports Complex, College Union,
residence halls, campus facilities
Annual Fund 15,000,000
$150,000,000

