Monday, January 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Football

Final decision: Trustees vote for Division III by 1992

By BRUCE NEWSOME

In a special meeting on December 17,
1988, Davidson’s Board of Trustees fol-
lowed its Athletics Policy Committee’s
recommendation to drop football to Divi-
sion III.

After consulting with the NCAA, how-
ever, the board decided on a three-year
phase-in period. This period will enable
those players who currently receive finan-
cial aid packages enhanced with Wildcat
Club funds to retain the money while still
playing football.

Players who were recruited to play Divi-
sion I and who choose not to play under the
new Division III schedule will also con-
tinue to receive Wildcat Club funds.

Under Division Il rules, athletes cannot
receive preferential financial aid. If
Davidson went straight into Division III
next year, players would have to decide
whether or not it was worth giving up their
extra money in order to play football. This
transition period allows players not to have
to choose between money and football.

By the 1992 season, Davidson should not
have any players left who have this special
financial aid package. The 1992° season
would be Davidson’s first as a true member

in Division II. For the 1989-1991 seasons,

CORRECTION:

A news story last year contained a
serious typographical error. Where
the article read, “‘And yet, the music
and lyrics are never destructive,” it
should have read, “Urk! Barble
Snapf! Ye Gods! Stingee thingee
wingee dingee! Power Tools!” We
Tegret the error.

Davidson will be classified as a “restricted
member” by the NCAA, playing a Divi-
sion III schedule.

All future football recruits will only be ©

eligible for the financial aid packages that
all other students receive. Those players on
financial aid will have to accept work-
study jobs and loans instead of having this

amount paid by the Wildcat Club.

During the transition period, Davidson
wants to play some Division I-AA schools
and some Division III schools.

hy

~~ =
AL |

a

Phe Patterson Court Puddle: How long do we have to live with this?

Photographic news analysis and comment by Alex Hayden

SURVEY, from page 2

decline from. several years ago, 26.6
percent stated that they had used drugs
at Davidson. 14.1 percent-had only ex-
perimented with drugs.

Twenty-four percent have used mari-
juana. Other drugs and their reported
rates: cocaine, 3.5 percent; crack, 0.7
percent; mushrooms, 6.8 percent; LSD,
4.4 percent; heroin, 0.4 percent arid
other drugs, 4.7 percent.

Kazee said that responses to the sec-
tion on sports showed “some dissatis-
faction with the status quo. However,

_there is no strong consensus.”

Of former varsity athletes (14 percent
of those polled), 38.2 percent cited bad
coaching as their first reason for stop-
ping sports participation.

In a question concerning Davidson’s
football program, 25.7 percent chose to

drop football, and leave the other sports
in Division I, and 6 percent favored
dropping football and taking the other
sports to Division III.

26.7 percent ranked staying in Divi-
sion I with more scholarships as their
first choice, and only 5.5 percent chose
to stay the same with only basketball
scholarships.

29.2 percent would prefer to move
football to Division III, while leaving
the other sports in Division I, and 14.3
percent preferred moving all sports to
Division III.

In the poll’s mock election, George
Bush defeated Michael Dukakis 52.2
percent to 44.6 percent, among those
with a preference, and 3.2 percent fa-
vored a third party candidate.

14.5 percent either agree or strongly
agree that the Davidson College Honor
Code is often broken by students. 86.5
percent disagreed.

APRIL 1, 1989
marks the 75th anniversary —
of The Davidsonian’s founding

To celebrate this event, the newspaper staff is busy assembling a truly
stupendous anniversary issue. We look forward to providing the
college community with a fascinating look at.the past, present and

future of Davidson. ;
This issue will also provide our many loyal advertisers with an outlet
for those advertising dollars they’ve been saving for a rainy day. Do
"reserve your place in Davidson College’s historical record!
Call Advertising Managers Scooter “Bill” Scouten at 896-6078.
or Hutch “John” Hutchinson at 896-6110.
-Ad deadline is March 15.
Deadlines become guidelines when the price is right.

v
