Wednesday, October 25, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

___ Letters
Poor lighting invites crime

Dear Editor:

I would like to take this opportunity
to express my concern for an issue that
directly hinders the basic security of
Davidson's beautiful campus: POOR
LIGHTING.

If you have ever ventured out of your
dorm after the sun has retreated
over the horizon you are bound toknow
what I’m talking about. There are spots
about campus where you can literally
not see ten feet in front of you.

Examples of these “black holes” in-
clude the courtyard between Cannon
and Watts and the lawn between Belk
and the Commons. A rape could easily
occur 15 yards from the Police Hut and

*no one would see. The walk home
fromthe computer center at 1 a.m. is not
a safe one for an unescorted coed. Who
knows what lurks in the bushes along
this substandardly lit path? All of these
areas are sparsely traveled at night in
the first place, but the fact that youcan’t
see where you are going or who is
coming toward you isa ery ih
tohappen.

Myth: “Davidson's s. buch a beautiful
place that we don’t have to worry about
being attacked.” It’s true that I can’t
think ofa Davidson student who would

consider such a thing, but we do have °

lawbreakers in our immediate commu-
nity and they have just as easy access to

Davidson property as the rest of us.
Think about it. Last Friday night a
woman was brutally murdered only
two blocks from campus. Last year I
know of at least one Davidson girl who
was attacked while jogging on city
streets. You can rarely pick up The
Davidsonian without reading of stolen

' bicyclesand car break-ins. Wearenotas

safe as we think.

The parking lots have been handled
very well and are probably the best
lit areas on campus. Belk and satellite
parking are extremely well lit with —
bright mercury lamps on tall poles, but
this is not where students routinely
pass. Where are our priorities? You
walk around campusand see hundreds
of aesthetically pleasing but function-
ally worthless lamp posts burning little
200-watt bulbs. Sure they look good,
but who cares if they don’t create a safe
place for us to go about our normal
routines after dark? We need to place
more of these powerful mercury lamps
at least along all of the vital thorough-
fares around campus. If I were a pro-

- spective Davidson parent, I would
have serious reservations about send-

ing my 18-year-old daughter to
Davidson for this reason alone.

Sincerely,
Bennett S. Cardwell

- Misleading titles

Dear Editors, | :
I would like to’ clarify a point about

blaming the problem only on men, or
think that I_am a jman-hating, hairy-

the opinions article I wrote last week.
An editor wrote the headline “Let’s be -

careful to say what we mean -guys—
Davidson women are not girls.* The
editor got the gist of the article, but

readers, not just guys. I am aware that
female college students say rome. “k
oftenasmalesdo.

I dont want readers to think that I am

lesbian, scowling,’ crew-cutted

feminist armed with a submachine gun
to blast holes through any man who.

innocently opensa door for me. I’mjust

_ afeminist. And fortherecord, [like men
article was aimed at all Davidsonian

just fine (some men more than others, of
course). —

“Sincerely, —

Lucia Kendall

Men and women in sports

Dear Sports Editor, eee

In your coverage of soccer, there isan
_ archaic usage on the women’s side:
“Lady Wildcats” goes with “Gentlemen
Wildcats” as an equivalent term. Such
commentary on one’s breeding or de- ;
portmentis notemployed in thecontext.
of athletics, with the aus! excep Bon
of jousting. :

~ “Men's Soccer” and “Women’s Soc-
cer” are equivalenttermsand thenames
“Wildcats” or “Davidson Soccer” suf-
fice for each.

Wildcats is a great term for any
Davidson athlete. Why ‘Gentlemen
is de dg a ey Wildcats?

Diane R. aoe
_ Head Soccer Coach

Fans Heed: to cheer, not insult.

To the Editors: ; eateal
This letter is in to the letter
delivered to | cues from Bob McKil-

lop, our new head basketball coach. His .
letter was | written to gain student sup- —

port for out rmen’s basketball program,
and to inform us of when and how to
attend the games. First of all, I com-

mendhimon his enthusiasm and desire.
to recruit henna fans! I agree, we.

- supportall sont athletic programs. In
fact, the athletes deserve that respect.

__ However, I disagree strongly with ©

McKillop’s suggestion that we try to

ae the fans at Duke University. I.

wish no such fate for yale or other

Davidson students and ‘fans. While
Duke has very supportive and enthusi-
astic fans, they have been repeatedly re-
ferred to as “animals” and collectively,
“a zoo.” With great fervor, they insult

opposing teamsand individual players,.
‘as well as their fans. They applaud
-raucously when opposing players foul.

out or miss shots. Surely we can do
better. McKillop states that he feels
“very fortunate to be part of an institu-

tion where a commitment to excellence |’
\ 1" permeatesevery aspectof campuslife: a

_ Let’s show him that excellence by sup-

porting our team with our attendance
and enthusiasm for our team, not

scans our itis

Sinperely:
oni te Woodard

15

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Jennifer Lynn Hoffman, Muadi Mukenge, Editors

Suzanne Craymer, Gary Wheeler, News Editors 4

Heath Hardage, Features Editor John Burns, Sports Editor

Chris Kelly, Business Manager
Timothy Jacks, Opinions Editor Doug Gibson, Inside Art Editor

Lucia Kendall, Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Managers

Ed Matthews, Photography Editor Bill Scouten, Advertising Manager

Laura Sizemore, Copy Editor

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor Emeritus

Who?

all convocation is a time for recognizing achievements.

Davidson has traditionally understated individual student

~ accomplishments during convocations and the graduation

ceremony, choosing instead to emphasize the achievement

of every senior. Such an approach supports a belief that every

Davidson education should incorporate aspects of leadership, serv-

ice and extracurricular activities. Some individual awards, however,
are presented to a few students of unusual achievement.

One of the five student awards that has been included in this
ceremony is the Who’s Who Among Students in American Univer-
sities and Colleges. This award was designed to recognize the talents
and accomplishments of students who are involved and who are
leaders. While academics are one component of the criteria for
selection, the award is designed to also identify students who fall
short of the top 35 percent of the class and are therefore not eligible
for Omicron Delta Kappa.

‘But who were the people chosen for this award this year?

Although the names of the 47 winners were printed in the program

and Dean Terry asked the recipients to stand en masse, he chose not
to read the names.

Such a process of recognition raises the question of the
award’ ssignificance.The selection process of sending outa list of the
senior class to 60 or'more students and faculty with the instructions
to choose 25 names also smacks of a contest based’ on popularity
rather than merit. Under this process, the elected senior class presi-

_dent-was not selected for this leadership award.

Who’s Who may be an important award. But if Davidson
decides that it is, it must be committed to that decision and treat the
award as more than a semi-important honor. If Who’s Who is worth
including and mentioning in the convocation ceremony, it should
also be worth developing a stronger selection process and criteria.

| And above all, it should merit reading all 47 names during the

program to give the winners their moment of recognition.-jlh

