-aint-

profs pan

The three faculty
College Issues have released a comprehensive
their decision to sell the college, but with an important
“But if the trustees intend to abandon Davidson’s traditional
severely undermine the ideals for which it was founded. Trump’s stress

T, a
rump in
members of the

study of Davidson College’ssaleto Donald Trump.
condition. If Trump “promises to support the values of
values, we believe this decision will have to be reconsidered.”
on financial goals at the cost of academic excellence contradicts

By BIT CHINMONE | |
report:
Advisory Council on
The report agrees with Davidson’s trustee committees in
Davidson, it is a step in the right direction,” the report says.
The documentalsoclaims that Trump’s present plans for the college
Davidson’s purpose in a big way. “I like thinking big,” said Trump, “If

you’re going to think, you might as well think big.”
The three faculty on the council authored the report: assistant

professor of economics David
Martin, ‘assistant professor of
religion Trent Foley and associate
professor of history Peter Krentz,
who chaired the council. “\__.~
Reaction to the six-page report
was favorable, according to faculty
members. “Ithoughtthe committee
report" was a good one,” said
associate professor of political
science Tom Kazee. “It was
carefully researched. It was as
exhaustive a look at the issue as
we've seen,”
. Assistant. professor of
economics Chris Bell found the

numbers in the report to be “eye-°

opening.”

“I. had never realized how
much money Trump actually had
on hand,” he said, referring to
Trump’s $150 million cash
purchase of the college. “But if he
refuses to spend money on

a

benefiting the college
academically, then we should fight
him. He can’t just waltz into this
Mecklenburg County pig path and
do what he wants.”’

Reaction to the report was not
entirely favorable.

Trump characterized. the
committee members, particularly
Martin, as “frustrated tycoons” and
questioned the faculty’s authority
to pass judgment on financial
affairs. ““Whatright does the faculty
have to recommend anything
concerning the college? They’re
not qualified.”

Trump. said through his
lawyers that the faculty’s intrusion
was “unfair, and I’m noteven sure
it’s legal. Nobody pushes me
around, you understand? I don’t
wantto have to litigate, but nobody
is going to push me around.”

David, the Fr iendly Ghost: Religion professor David
Kaylor proudly displays a copy of Donald Trump’s newest book, which he
“edited.” Kaylor’s fee from the book is estimated at a cool $3 mil.

The mild-mannered pedagogue is taking early retirement from Trump University to

build achurch in Central America. “I plan to pattern it after the Calvary Church in Charlotte,”

he said.

“That’s a big place, isn’t it,” said Trump. “I like thinking big,” he said. “If you’re going to be thinking
anyway, you might as well think big. Just be sure to put in some waterfalls.”

The Kaylors have been swift in preparing for this new vocation. Kaylor has been taking crying lessons
downtown, and Mrs. Kaylor has been spotted shopping for air-conditioned doghouses.

