~~

Friday March 31, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

International International News

»m

U.S. recommits aid to contras; Soviets elect new congress_

By BETH ORUMMOND
and CAROL GATEWOOD
NICARAGUAN AID: Congress passed a
bi-partisan accord last week establishing a
$4.5 million dollar a month aid package for
the Nicaraguan contras. The agreement
_ provides for shipments of food, clothing and
medical supplies -- generally termed hu-
manitarian aid -- to be sent to the Nicaraguan
rebels in support of their struggle against the
country’s. leftist Sandinista government.
The accord was negotiated by Secretary of
State James Baker and represents the high-
est priority achievement in his first eight
weeks in office. However, challenges by
White House Counsel C. Borden Gray have

clouded this successful climate. Because the .

agreement calls for monetary aid beyond
November 1989 to be subject to congres-
sional review and veto, Borden argues that it

permits a legislative encroachment on the
constitutional powers of the President.

USSR: District elections were held March
26 in the Soviet Union to select a new
national Congress of People’s Deputies.
The elections symbolized one more success
for General Secretary Mikhail Gorbachev’s
“democratization” plans. In two months the
new Congress will select a “standing legis-
lature” as well as a president with “enhanced
powers.” The new president will probably
be Gorbachev.

While this may illustrate an effort by the
General Secretary to solidify his power as
leader of the Soviet Union, there is potential
for these open elections to act to his disad-
vantage. Although one fourth of the districts
had unopposed candidates belonging to the
Communist Party, popular fronts in the

Baltic states posted great victories, often
defeating senior party officials. These na-
tionalist groups may support perestroika,
but their presence in parliament may call for
policy changes that are too radical for Gor-
bachev.

The Soviet elections also marked a huge
comeback for Boris Yeltsin, the former

. leader of the Moscow Communist Party

who was ousted from the Politiburo just
over a year ago. Deposed for “radical”
ideas, Y eltsin’s campaign drew large public
support as people marched in the streets on
his behalf. Yeltsin swept the districtencom-
passing Moscow with 89 percent of the
vote.

INTERNATIONAL TRADE: A recent
article in The New York Times reported
that American companies are using a new

SGA elections 1989

Davidson’s Student Government Association will hold its elections for class senators this Tues-
day, April 4, from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.Three senators each from the sophomore, junior and senior
classes for next year will be elected, and the senator with the most votes will be class president.
The Davidsonian has invited candidates to submit short pieces explaining their candidacies.

Will Montgomery

My name is Will Montgomery and I am
running for senator for the class of 1992. I
would like to briefly describe my past expe-
rience and hopefully give you some idea of
who I am and what I can accomplish as
senator.

that a¢ of ‘my high school experi-
ice fed tape We 2
Junior ‘class, and Shs Davidson stu-
dents were President or some other high
office in high school and you may notbe i im-
pressed, I will tell you what I did with that

job. I organized two benefit concerts for a

night shelter ata downtown Atlanta church
involving bands from our school. I co-
founded “Open Mind,” a discussion group
“that met bi-weekly to discuss current politi-
cal and social events. Asa senior I was the
co-head of the organization which coordi-
nated service projects at our school includ-
ing blood drives, tutoring, and canned food

‘drives. lalsoworkedall year witharetarded

teen, meeting once a week to help him learn
to handle money and other social skills. —

At Davidson I have been interested in.

several areas. I was “Brother” in the Fall
drama production of “1918.” (Actors, ev-
eryone knows, make the best politicians.) I

enjoy rock climbing, water skiing,intramu- _

ral sports, and being in the outdoors. I have
akeen interest in environmental awareness

and am currently organizing an Adopt-A-

Highway march next week for therecycling —
committee. In January, my concern for —

awareness of race relations led me to marci

~ for Martin Luther King Jr.’s birthday with a

group of Davidson students. I have also

written letters for Amnesty International
this

_ willmakean effective and responsible sena-

_ tor because of experience as a leader. By

combining. perceptive analysis, energetic

idealism, willingness to communicate, and —

persistence, I will define this role as a vital
ee

Tom Moore

Hi there, My name is Tom Moore. Thave.—

~ been the Editor of The Davidsonian for the
. past year and am now putting myself on the

was president of my —

year.
Gackt iaiaatandenn eal en Teme
- people. I-hope this is evident in my experi-
- ence with creative and dynamic projects. I.

. os
block as a senior candidate for the SGA
Senate. I have had a challenging year as
Editor, and have had unusual opportunities
to involve the newspaper in the lives of
Davidson students.

If any one thing could be said to mark my
term as Editor of this newspaper, I would
hope that it would be that I have not been
timid in taking strong stands on issues.

_ 01. do not want my involvement in campus
issues to end when I hand the newspaper
over to the new editors atthe end of this year.

“I can make a valuable. contribution in stu-
dent government as one who has spent his
career here keeping an eye on authority
figures, not kissing up to them. I’ve had my
finger on the hotissues all year long, andcan
use my contacts throughout the school for
the benefit of students. .

I believe that my qualities and strengths
are what Davidson needs in the SGA. Vote
early and vote often and vote for Tom
Moore for senior Lug Senator.

Carey Pickard

Davidson is now facing a wide range of »

important issues which will affect the cam-

pus for many years to come. It is important 1

for the college community to know how the
student body feels about these issues and

chow we want them handled. I believe that

the best way to ensure that this happens is to
maintain a strong, active and open-minded
SGA,

The SGA isa vital part of campus life here

,at Davidson. It, has.a: strong tradition of ©

serving asi aliaison between the students and
the administration. I hope we can continue
this tradition during the upcoming school
year. If am elected to the SGA, I willdomy
best to serve as a channel for student opin-
ion. I’ll try.and be open to ideas different
from my own. And when the time comes to
vote—especially on controversial issues—
I will try to vote as a representative of the
Senior Class as a whole.

I realize that I don’t have the experience
of some of the other candidates. However, I
am committed to making Davidson a better
place. I am enthusiastic and excited about

‘the possibility of serving you as a Senior -

Class Senator. Therefore, I hope that you-
will elect me to voice your opinions on the
issues that matter to you. ae

method to compete more effectively with
foreign corporations. Rather than trying to
win the battle in exporting, American com-
panies are now manufacturing abroad. This
move is not only more efficient than export-
ing, it is more profitable. Producing abroad
signals that more companies see a need to be
globally competitive and as a result may
place less value en U.S. national interests.
At the same time, it may be in the United
States’ interests in regards to Europe to
encourage production abroad. In 1992 the
12-member European Community will
complete its plans to eliminate all internal
trade barriers and introduce a single Euro-
pean currency. Both politicians and econo-
mists fear this move will cut off most im-
ports from outside Europe. U.S. production
abroad may lead to better relations with our
trading partners in the business community
and diplomatic arena, arid may ultimately
prevent an increase in trade barriers.

MIDDLE EAST PEACE PLANS: In a
summit meeting last week, leaders of Egypt,
Jordan and the Palestinian Liberation Or-
ganization (PLO) agreed that a Middle East
peace plan would require an international
conference. Such a move appears to be a
repudiation of recent statements by the PLO
that they would consider bilateral talks with
Israel under the auspices of the U.S. and the
USSR. Although a move for an interna-
tional conference is not supported by the
Bush administration, Foreign Ministry offi-
cials in Cairo asserted that the summit’s
main goal was to reach a unified stance ona
Middle Eastern peace program before
Egyptian President Honsi Mubarak meets
with President Bush.

The Arab leaders’ decision is especially
significant-as-it comes close to the 10th

\ anniversary of. the. historic Camp: David
‘Accord. Mediated by President Jimmy
Carter, it was signed in March 1979 by

Egyptian President Anwar el-Sadat and Is-
raeli Prime Minister Menachem Begin. The
accord provides for the return of the Israeli-
occupied Sinai Peninsula to Egypt. In ex-
change, Egypt agreed to the demilitarization
of its relations with Isracl. In an interview
with The New York Times, Carter pointed
to the Camp David Accord as a shining
example of the successful record of U.S.-
sponsored bilateral Arab/Isracli peace talks.
The former President’s comments echo the
Bush Administration’s lack of Confidence
in an international conference to solve the
problems of the Middle East.

