Talk to Bis:

Wednesday afternoon of each month.

campus) if you have any s asemaie ig

Ne

‘Sign’ up for a Union committee. ee eee
‘Sign-ups for Union ¢ ec hpe ny nl ens, Ma ‘

nS
weight gain, special dicts, or sports nutrition, call extension -2: aes
mec te Mak an appoint © met wih Happy Mery he %

Volunteer for Davidson hot lunch program —
Volunteer to help serve meals in the Davidson hot lunch mr
Community Center any Monday through. Friday Uda.m: tolp

easy, and they need your help. Sign ign up at your eati
where directions to the Center will beposed:

SS annaenaanan

Thursday, March 2, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

President

1989 - 99 UNION BOARD MEMBERS

Ward Bradley
Kelly Crews
Tinsley Bates
Sharon L. Schwartz
Stan Humphries

Co-Curricular VP
Social VP
Campus Forum

Chamber Music Tom Haddock
Cinema Classics Jennifer Longest
Concert Matt Terrell
Cultural Events Kellett Letson
Melissa Carr
Davidson Outdoors Ford Shippey
Gallery Jennifer Payne
*] Games , Christopher Hardin
4 Int'l Committee - - Arindam Bhattacharjee
IPC | Bryan Kirlley

John Kang

NS ‘

Jennifer Bean

Litetary Arts
900 Room Mary Freed
Stacy Smith
Pop Films Jennifer McGrady
Publicity Christy Knight
Kristi Mitchem
Publicity Artist Kim Cartron
Secretary/Treas. Catherine Chang
Speakers Susan Ott
Mollie Harrington
Video Lisa LeNard
Women’s Concerns Leigh Hall
Jennifer Bangley

Members-At-Large
Dru Carr
Minnie Iwamoto
Mark Puckett
Ned Carroll

CAMPAIGN, from page 1

Smith enrolls 3,000 undergraduates and
has 40,000 living alumna. Davidson cur-
rently enrolls approximately 1,400 stu-
dents, and Nancy Blackwell, associate di-
rector of -atumni relations, estimated that

_ Davidson, has’15,300 living alumni.

ARN | ‘nity, that our.alumni body is
smaller” than most of the schdols attempt-
ing such large campaigns, Griffith admit-
ted, but he called the success of a campaign
“a tribute to the success of our alumni and
a tribute to their loyalty to Davidson.”

George. A. Brakeley III, president of
Brakeley,- John Price Jones, Inc. of

Stamford, Conn., and a friend of Griffith’ s,

was consulted on an informal basis in the
planning of the. project. Brakeley’s firm
monitors campaigns across the country. He
said that a correct description of the project
would be “ambitious.”

“Very. Very,” he said. “But you oa
arrive at a goal Tike va castially It
result’ of a ‘verytare Watuation bt aE ne
constituency, the willingness and capacity
of the board of trustees to lead the way, and
early indications from your nearest and

Hall counselors announced

Women Men
Cheryl Bauerle Clay Adams
Ashley Bryant Thurston Cooke
Margaret Carroll Jon Giles
Christi Cook Barry Grow
Ellen Crawford Josh Hickman
Susanne Davis Bruce Koch
Marjorie Havinghurst Doug Jobe
Marya Howell Tom Larson
Kristi Kessler Robert Marshall
Susan Ott ‘Tommy Marshall -
Lori Rockett Randall Mountcastle
LaClaire Williams Mark Puckett
Z John Raines
r iY Ryan Roberson
Dan Robison
Bill Smith
Y Mark Wainwright

YYy Dave Williams

dearest friends.”

Brakeley said that two o othe? schools are
considering $100 million and $150 million
campaigns, but that Davidson is the first to
go public with its plans. He also said that if
the school stays on track, it will be the first
to complete such a goal.

“As a group, the trustees have estab-
lished an ambitious goal of $25 million for
themselves,” Brakeley said. “I believe this
is a great indicator of the vision and convic-
tions of Davidson’s supporters.”

R. Stuart Dickson II, Ruddick Corp.
chairman and chairman of the trustee insti-
tutional advancement committee, said in
the release, “Early fund-raising efforts
have yielded gifts and pledges of over $50
million, and trustee and college leadership
are currently recruiting the campaign lead-
ers.”

Griffith rated highly the project’s pros-
pects for success. “The fact that we have a

_ third committed, that the trustees: have

committed to raising $25 million, puts us in
a very favorable position.”

Griffith said that current trustees have
already committed over $10 million, and
that the remainder of: the $25 million will
come from current trustees and trustees to
be recruited over the next five years.

Brakeley praised the early returns. “One-
third of the goal... the point of that, of
saying you have $50 million in hand is to
say, ‘Hey guys, this is not a dream, it’s
real. 999

The campaign has 3 components: the
largest, approximately $100 million, is to
go to the endowment. $15 million will goto
the annual operating budget, and $3 mil-
lion is pegged for the annual fund. The rest
will go for capital construction, such as the
sports complex, new dorms, a new arts

center and a new life sciences building.
Davidson’s current endowment is just past
the $70 million mark.

A question mark in the campaign at this
point is how the departures of three key
institutional advancement people will af-
fect the project. Griffith leaves in July to
assume the presidency of Arkansas Col-
lege. Beth Craddock, director of the cam-
paign, is leaving and Marilyn Gilmore,
director of corporation and foundation re-
lations, said goodbye on Tuesday.

Griffith dismissed personnel concerns.
“I feel that our departure comes at a time
when an important chapter in the prepara-
tion for this campaign is concluded. It’s an
appropriate time for someone to take the
institutional advancement reins of the col-
lege and bring the campaign to asuccessful

_ conclusion.”

Organizers have made the somewhat
unusual move of publicly announcing the
campaign before the volunteer leadership
has been named. “Those individuals will be
recruited this spring,” Griffith said, and"
will be in place for “gala festivities”
launching the campaign this coming fall."

The October death of trustee chairman
Ben Craig has also complicated efforts to
get the campaign off the ground, but Grif-
fith says there has been a good transition.
“Ben was central in leadership on the stra-
tegic plan, in the preliminary phases of the
campaign. Mr. Craig was front and center
in helping to pull together the leadership
gifts. Mr. Wall was also front and center
during this process. The transfer to Mr,
Wall has been a smooth and effective one
such that we have been able to keep our mo-

_ mentum,” Griffith said. “Mr. Craig de-

serves remarkable credit 1 in getting us to
this point.”

CONDOMS, from page 1

Life at Davidson, feels that the proposition
is definitely worth considering. He be-
lieves that the idea would only succeed,
though, if done discreetly. He suggests that
each dormitory contain one condom ma-
chine, located in the basement of the build-
ing where it would not be as noticeable a as
a hall bathroom: ~
According to Jennings, a recent Board of
Trustees meeting with the Residence Life
Office produced adamant opposition to the
proposal, although not all of the members
present expressed an opinion.
Student response is divided. Many stu-
__dents interviewed said that they would sign
the petition without any reservation. Rea-
sons given were: “We have done enough
talking about AIDS, now lets take some
action!”; “Davidson will look more aware
by getting condom machines, and it will
show we take the problem seriously
enough to take bold action”; and “Making
condoms readily available will protect stu-

dents against three serious problems--
AIDS, other sexually transmitted diseases
and pregnancy.”

Some supporters, however, signed the
petition for different reasons. Among these
are thoughts that “I have no problem with
it, but I don’t really see the need for AIDS
prevention on the Davidson campus,” or
“people will decide for themselves anyway
[whether or not to have sex], so it is our
duty to offer protection to them.”

One student who supports the proposal
holds an opinion many share: “It doesn’t
say a lot about the school, but we are better
safe than sorry.”

Such a “realistic” approach is opposed

by negative responses to the petitions, re-

sponses of two kinds. On the one hand, the
majority of interviewees neglecting to sign
say they find the measure unsuitable for
Davidson. Several freshmen girls said that
having condom machines on campus
would make it harder to say “no” to sex.
Another opinion is that Davidson is con-
sidering the idea “just to make a state-
ment.” Others argued that the primary fo-

_ one day come back to haunt ‘them. Al-’

cus ought to be placed upon education.

One junior suggested that the school
encourage all: students to go to Commwell
Drugs to buy several condoms--"just in
case”’--even if not sexually active.

Another suggestion--similar to Kuyken-
dall’s idea--is to place three condoms in the
“Good Stuff” boxes students receive at the
beginning of the year. Condoms would thus
be readily available.

The ideaof first aid boxes is popular with —
both sides of the condom issue, and one

- Student suggested making it part of the

Honor Code to leave 25 cents-in the box
upon the taking of a condom in order to cut
down.on the expense of this endeavor.
Many students, however, did not sign the
petition because they did not want their
names on such a list. A freshman said that
she would be “mortified” if her parents saw
her name on the list. Others cited political
ambitions and said that their signature may -

though they would like to see condom

‘machines on campus, they were not going ~

to make any personal effort to accomplish

this goal.

According to many students inter-
viewed, AIDS: is not their “problem,”
therefore there is no reason to sign the list.

There was a large concern among’ the
students that no one would take the ma-
chines seriously. Visions of condom water
balloons sprung to: their minds, and-all
agreed that the idea would take : some get-
ting used to.

‘The AIDS Action Committee, which is
composed of students and faculty, reminds
students that the petition is not specifically
lobbying for machines on campus. The
petition is to gauge student support of _
whether or not protective measures against
AIDS are felt to be needed on campus, says
junior Cackie Walters, The committee will
consider any other “creative” solutions to
the problem, including first aid boxes and
the “Good Stuff” idea.

According to Terry, “We arendt going to

-see condom machines up’ this ‘year.”“He

added, however, that if the proposition is
still active next year, the school may con-
cede to student opinion.
