Commentaries

The Davidsonian
' Wednesday, October 25, 1989

Summer in inner-city is a challenge to grow

This past summer I taught reading skills, math,
arts & crafts and a little Bible studies to fourth-grade
kids at Seigle Avenue Presbyterian Church’s Summer
Program. Thekids were from Piedmont Courts, a low-
income housing project in Charlotte. I was one of four
Stapleton/Davidson interns working with people
from inner-city Charlotte. It was the first year of the
internship, which was established through the gener-
osity of George Davidson Jr., ‘39, and his wife Anne
Stapleton Davidson, and was supervised by a com-
mittee fromm First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte.

Teaching was new to me. Working with bad-
mouthed, undisciplined and unmotivated children
was even newer. Doing all of this without air-condi-
tioning topped it off nicely. The first two days I ques-
tioned how I could have possibly thought this was
what I should do with my summer! At times, the
energy, enthusiasm and love required to teach these
children seemed more than I could handle. [am proud
to say I not only survived, but actually came to enjoy
the job and especially the kids! These same children
were amazingly clever at times. They taught me their
priorities and the importance of flexibility and com-
promise. They showed me that even children which at
first glance seemcompletely hopeless as pupils can be
intelligent, helpful and even motivated if placed in the
right circumstances with support from others.

Starting my first day of teaching, I-was openly
challenged. With few exceptions, the kidsnever asked
me to help them or to see things they’d accomplished-
they told me to. Regardless of what we did or who had
suggested doing it, everything was “boring.” And one
boy repeated the éver-so-encouraging phrase “I hate
it” several tities everyday.

Discipline and respect came only after I exploded
in rage and frustration one day with the line “Who's
the teacher in this room?!” When I planned special

field trips or did special things for the kids, they.
not exp patel 5 gratitude but instead complained of

them something--an attitude Istill cannotunderstand
since I was taught the exact opposite. At first I feared
I was simply.inadequate asa teacher. I took the treat-
ment personally’and wondered how I could improve.
However, I soon realized that I was simply being

was serious. At the end of the week, one of my troub-
lemakers made a point of telling me he’d see me
Monday, and I almost cried-not out of sadness, butout
of happiness and relief. I knew then that he knew he
could count on me to show upon Monday and wanted
me to know that he would show up too! That one
statement let me know that what I was doing mat-
tered. The kids did care; they were not hopeless. I
could be of some use to them. .”

It horrified me-at first that such young children
were so aware of violence and drugs inour society, but
considering the neighborhoods where they live, it did
notamaze me. Their awareness may be the only factor
which saves them from drug addiction, teenage par-
enthood and lives of crime later on. It comforted me to

Jearn that their favorite music groups and songs were
frequently those which openly opposed the crime--

ridden, drug-filled world which they have accepted as
the normin their neighborhoods. It thrilled me to hear
some of them discuss the importance of education and
a belief in God as factors helping them improve them-
selves and their socio-economic status in society.
From my observations, and discussions with the
kids in Seigle’s Summer Program and with Charlie
Summers, its pastor, I am convinced that much of
these children’s problems in school with concentra-
tion, discipline and performance can be traced back to

‘ no bedtimes, little supervision and little or no break-

tested, and that persistence and. determination would -

be needed to pass. Brel oe
Ilearned that these kids weren’t used to being able

tocountonanyoneand were reluctant to trustme. The.
second day of the program, oneof my better-behaved ~

kids asked meifI would be returning thenextday.She

as

un lead cor tthe Of important than mine. °
I had not done, They seemed tothink the world owed

fast before school. Although this may sound simplis-
tic, it makes sense if you think about it. | know I am
irritable and unproductive when I try to function
without adequate sleep and nutrition, not to mention
the effect of scary and disturbing TV programs and
movies! However, Ilearned that though these particu-
lar differences between the home situation of the kids
from Piedmont Courts and my own are unfortunate,
many of the cultural differences between us are sim-
at--differences--and their culture is no lessinter-
~ [believe we as the “middle and upper classes” of
society frequently assume that if we could only teach
the “lower classes” our priorities, our values and what
makes sense to us, then they would be able to pull
themselves into an improved socio-economic situ-
ation. WhatI think we find all tooeasy tobelieve is that
our culture is somehow better than theirs. I would like
to propose that Ino longer believe that. Firstof all, any
culture’s food, music, religion and way of life is in-
nately of vital importance to those belonging to that
culture simply because it is their-culture! If someone
tries to rob a people of those things which seem

natural and right to them in the name of their own
interest, it is like telling then that not only are they
disadvantaged economically and educationally, but
that they are disadvantaged emotionally and spiritu-
ally as well. We certainly cannot expect a group of
people to gain the confidence, self-esteem and motiva-
tion needed to help themselves by telling them they
are worthless! |

I think we would find a much lessened drug
problem in our poorer communities if we had more of
these kids growing up in an environment where they
felt they were important contributors and where they
knew that their initiative would be rewarded. People
use drugs to escape a world with which they feel they
cannot cope--people sell drugs to have a lifestyle they
feel they cannot obtain otherwise. It struck me many
times that-the poverty-stricken people of Piedmont
Courts could manage fine without our sympathy and
handouts, but would benefit greatly from our time
and talents in teaching them skills, acknowledging
their donations to society and encouraging and help-
ing. to facilitate their advancement educationally. I
hope more civic groups, churches and government
agencies will soon take on the attitude of “helping
people help themselves” rather than trying to help
with aid which wins immediate battles. but totally
avoids the war. :

Last summer was probably the best summer of
my life. 1 learned so much about a culture within our
society with which I was formerly only peripherally
acquainted. I even came to, insome small way, under-
stand that culture and its problems. My internship
helped me develop as a person. I know myself better
now.I know my personal limitations better now. Most.
of all, I regard myself in a different way now. I feel
more confident about my ability to assist others who
find themselves in distressing situations. I contem-
plate issues of poverty in a more open-minded and
informed fashion. Finally, 1 am more aware of the
established agencies and programs which assist those
from lower socio-economic backgrounds and how to
work with them. I recommend the Stapleton/
Davidson summer internship and similar opportuni-
ties to all Davidson students. The ways to learn and
help are numerous and the rewards are beyond ex-
pression.

Jerrilyn Woodard is a senior psychology major from
Wilson, N.C. ,

Cultural diversity: Davidson needs and can
change to benefit all, not just minorities

Several weeks ago I attended the first open SGA
Senate meeting. One topic of discussion was the
minority issue at Davidson. Last year this wasa preva-
lent issue that stimulated opinions from both sides:
of theaisle. At the core of this problem is the antipa-
thy to attract and retain minority students, faculty
and administrators; and the lack of ethnic-related
courses. With this in mind, I address several ques-
tions. Does Davidson need tochange? Does Davidson
want to change? And, how can we change?

I believe that Davidson critically needs to change.
We need to diversify the student body, faculty, ad-
ministration and our curriculum. Davidson is a lib-
eral-arts college and, as such, one of its primary goals
is to liberate one’s mind from ignorance. One way to

Davidson's population and curriculum is not reflec-
tive of our society. This homogeneity is entirely con-
tradictory to our liberal-arts philosophy. The college
does its students a great.and irreparable injustice by
maintaining this homogeneity. In keeping with the
best interest of our students, it is judicious to attract
and retain minority students, faculty and adminis-
trators and to incorporate into our curriculum a
variety of courses relating to minorities. Let us not
forget what. our Statement of Purpose expresses:

’ Davidson wishes to engage in those activites that

accomplish this is by exposing students to a consor- -
tium of ideas, thoughts, situations and, most impor- -

‘tantly, people. While we do expose students to a
healthy assortment of ideas and thoughts, we are
certainly not exposed to a variety of people. In terms
of composition, we are very homogeneous.

“liberate mankind physically, mentally and spritu-
ally.” If-we want to be faithful to our liberating phi-
losophy, we need tochange. aa

I have spoken to many, students, professors and
administrators about Davidson's commitment to
change. In the past, our administrators have echoed
this need. I ask: is their commitment sincere? I do not
know the answer. However, I do know that there are
students, faculty and administrators, not all of them
being minorities, who havea sincere commitmentand

are presently carrying out this pledge. President
Kuykendall maintains the Faculty Advisory Commit-
tee for Minorities to assess minority issues. With the
minority issue incumbent on us, this committee, of
which I ama student representative, does not havea
chairperson and has not convened in the two months
since school started. If we are to change, we must have
a sincere and concerted effort. We must have an hon-
est commitment from our-students, faculty and ad-
ministrators. We need the faculty and administration
to lead us.

I believe that, witha commitment from our students,
faculty and administration, Davidson can change. I
call upon the Dean of Admissions and his staff to

attractand recruit minority students. There isa pool of

minority students, albeit relatively small, from where

_to draw. Recently, our administration decided to in- °

crease the student population by 200. It is prudent to

See MINORITY, page 16

