Features

The Davidsonian

South Asians stage Bengali drama The Procession

By LISA GERRARD

The audience sits on the floor
while Indian actors in flowing
white robes move freely through-
out the theater. Dance, panto-
mime and stirring monologues
tell the story of The Procession, a
unique artistic production coming
to Davidson later this month.

The play’s April 24 debut will
be a new theatrical experience for

tance between audience and ac-
tors to place everyone on the same
level. Even the characters are
equal. There is no hero and no one
has a name, only a 7-member
chorus and an “everyman” per-
sona. ;

The basic story is that of a man
coming to terms with hypocrisy in
the modern world. The man rec-
ognizes inconsistencies around

most Davidson him and
students and oth- questions
ers in ? the “T think that India has a lot them in a
audience. The to teach America and this is dramatic in-
necenen com- q great way of doing it.” ner struggle.

ines ndian, . Educational
American and —Katherine Mallory methods,
British influences political cor-
to convey South “Jt haslong beenadreamof ruption and
Asian values with ours to bring a South Asian . religious ex-
fat tee ey play with an all-South Asian Plottation

. . »? re

from a_ giddy cast to Davidson. conte of
Hammerstein —Dr. Job Thomas yaiues
musical or Neil within his
Simon comedy, awakened
but student director Dipankar conscious-

Mukherjee says The Procession
has a message for everyone.

“Tt emphasizes the equality of
all people and addresses issues
that cross boundaries of national-
ity in their universal appeal,” he
said. Mukherjee adapted the play
from a Bengali work by Badal
~ Sarcar. An all-South Asian cast
maintains the work’s regional
flavor,.with. Indian. chants ,and
songs.

The Procession draws from the
Indian indigenous village theatri-
cal tradition of “jatra.” With no
stage and plenty of audience par-
ticipation, “‘jatra” eliminates dis-

Capalad

ness.

Senior Katherine Mallory saw
Mukherjee perform The Proces-
sion while on the semi-annual
“Davidson in India” program last
fall. “The play is not like a history
book,” she said. “It’s better be-
cause it makes you sensitive to an
Indian nationality or pathos. You
get more emotion than facts. I
think that,India has.a lot to teach

‘America and this is a great way of

doing it.”

Professor Job Thomas, direc-
tor of South Asian studies, met
Mukherjee in India last year.
Mukherjee had recently com-

pleted a master’s degree in Eng-
lish at Madras College and was
performing in his own theatrical
company. Thomas was impressed
with the talent of the dynamic
young man and took steps to bring
him to Davidson. Mukherjee en-

. has long been a dream of

thusiastically accepted the offer.
He is now considering a commu-
nications career here in the States.

Mukherjee’s production is a
great step for Davidson’s South
Asian program, says Thomas. “It
ours to

bring a South Asian play with an
all-South Asian cast to
Davidson,” he said.

Davidson currently enrolls 23
South Asian students, and several
more are Americans of South

(-r) Prem Manjooran, Bhaskar Chowdnuzj, Arindam Bhatacharya and Ameesha Pandya will perform in

The Procession April 24 & 25 in the 900 Room at 7 p.m.

Photo by Jay Wylie, courtesy of Coi:zge Reiations

South Asian students give
Davidson experience

Is it hard to make American friends? and

egy

Sophomores Tharagunan Mahcevan from India and Tania Tambiah from Sri Lanka wore
clothes from their native countries during the International Festival last fall.

.. Photo courtesy of College Relations

other reflections
By MUADI MUKENGE

If you ask Anjali Sharma, a freshman
at Davidson from India, what her con-
cept of friendship is, she answers, “If a
friend came to me with a problem, they
would be my number one priority. Here
for many students it is their test tomor-
row.”

This observation in culture variations
is only one of several expressed by South
Asian students studying for one- or four-
year: periods at Davidson. The college
has enrolled an all-time high of 59 inter-
national students ear, with the ma-
jority made up of Sou’ ians. Twenty-
four are from India while a few come
from Nepal, Pakistan, Bangladesh and
Sri Lanka.

Each international student adjusts dif-
ferently tc an American way of life, but
some of the challenges are common to
them all. Making friends is one, and
some Asian students have had more
success than others.

Vashist Worah of India found that the
presence of several friends from his high
school made it easier for him to meet
Americans. He has a very comfortable
relationship with his hallmates and says
he’s “very happy.”

Sharma had to accustom herself to

greeting strangers, a habit not practiced
in India. Instead, an introduction is re-
quired before one initiates conversa-
tions. Sharma was pleasantly surprised
that everyone at Davidson says “hello.”

jee. reveals that despite the warm aiti-
tudes of the college’s students, it is more
difficult to develop close friendships.
This difficulty is aggravated by the fact
that everyone is on their own demanding
schedule. “America, relax!” he says,
adding, “I want to meet more Americans.
I have not come all the way here to meet
my Own countrymen.”

the problem. Mukherjee adds that inter-.
national students want to make friends
but are shy and afraid to initiate conver-
sations. Therefore the majority of them
naturally stick together, at the Commons
and in their social circles.

the best way to form friendships is
through extra-curricular activities.
Sharma is heavily involved in campus-
organized community activities and
Mukherjee is acting in the school musi-

On the other hand, Dipankar Mukher-

Americans alone are not to blame for

Some Asian students have found that

See SOUTH ASIAN, page 6

