“AAHHHH!”

forever to clean up!”’

Terrified UNCC students fall to their deaths in a testing accident on the new Trump
Thriller Ride. The students were paid a subminimum training wage to try the new ride
out.“That’s a big mess,” said don Trump. “I like thinking big,but this is ridiculous!”’ he
said. “If you’re going to be thinking anyway, you might as well think big, but this will take

TRUMP
MOVES

By PRINCESS TAMMY

Thelake campus facilities have been drastically expanded over the past
few days under the new ownership.

The caretaker’s house has been destroyed and replaced by Lac de Norman, a new luxury
hotel featuring scenic views, fabulous decor and fantastic dining facilities. Guests will fork
over the modest sum of $1,000 per night for this exquisite experience.

While the guests may stay at the hotel at night, the fun of the newly relocated Heritage USA theme park
awaits them during the day. Water slides, made famous by Jerry Falwell in his fundraising drives, are

accompanied by gorgeous tree-
lined park settings and Tammy
Faye’s Beauty Shop, otherwise
knownas The Pancake House. New
attractions include The Jessica Ride
and The Church Lady Meets the
Bakkers. Donald: Trump bought
the park from Stephen Mernick,
who sold it in order to buy a bagel
bakery in Toronto.

The “Trump Princess,” one of
the world’s most luxurious private
yachts, was recently brought by
tractor trailer caravan to Lake
Norman, The $29 million boat will
serve as Trump’s personal office
during his visits to Trump
University. The entire energy of
the McGuire nuclear power plant
is used to operate this boat, which
is 282 feet long. ©

The present staff of the lak
campus has been promoted to
higher positions. According to John
Freeman, current caretaker of the
lake campus, “Trump has
personally assigned me to the task
of anchoring the Princess whenever
it comes in to dock.”

As for the amusement park -
and hotel, former DavidsonCollege ~

faculty members have been enlisted
in upper-level positions. “I get to
stamp the hands of visitors who
plan on returning later in the day,”
former Dean of Students Will Terry
said.

Former librarian Kelly Wood
beamed, “I make reservations and
check out guests.”

“T operate the lever thatmakes
the merry-go-round go ‘round,”
said former physics professor
Wolfgang Christian.

Other former Davidson
College staff members sold cotton
candy, made beds, left mints on
nightstands and ‘cleaned toilets.
Some performed all of these tasks
at the same time.

Thenewcomplex isan integral
part of Trump’s master plan for
Trump University. When asked
why, heresponded, “Tlike thinking
big. If you’re going to be thinking
anyway, you might as well think
-big.”

‘Faculty
and

THE DAVID’S ONION
May 3, 1989

11
