Commentaries

wt araok

= Peay

The Davidsonian
Monday, January 23, 1989

A Rhodes alumnus gives views on football decision

Tom White

Asa student at Rhodes College in the 60s, I participated
in both varsity and intramural sports while receiving a
quality education. I appreciated both at that fine school.
Despite moderate ability in many games, I was not good
enough to make either varsity football or basketball teams,
but enthusiastically supported its Division III teams all my
life. The time and effort expended by those fellows in both
sports and classes was a constant source of inspiration to
me and other classmates.

Rhodes’ football success has varied through the years,
probably winning and losing equally, but always produc-
ing vivid college memories for both players and fans. It
had produced several “little” all-Americans, and one NFL
pro in my 40 years of observation. This year it became the
second southern team in history invited to the Division III
playoff. In the past, Rhodes (then Southwestern) com-
peted with the football powers of the region, even winning
some of those confrontations. There was little controversy
in the rational adjustment away from big-time sports as
other schools grew and subsidized athletic programs. It
simply was not reasonable for Rhodes to pursue large

On Worshipping

Doug Hicks

During the first semester’ s last week of classes, students
marched through Chambers on their way to classes, appar-
ently not noticing, or caring to notice, the others in the
halls. No one smiled. After all, everyone had all-impor-
tant papers to write and projects to complete. In their
tunnel vision, no one had time to acknowledge or to enjoy
anyone else. What a pity that we students can become
slaves to our work, losing perspective and joy in our lives.

At Davidson we play a constant game with one another
and with ourselves. The attention received from complaint
about our “incredible” workload serves as a reward to
procrastinate until just before our deadlines. Further, there
is ample incentive to match our peers by exaggerating our
own assignments: “By tomorrow, I must finish 3 papers
(actually, one is a rough draft and another is a short essay],
a problem set [which I’ve been working on for two weeks],

institutions\in sports, but to outdo them in educational
excellence.

The use of most Division I schools as training grounds
for pro teams has recently come under well-deserved
scrutiny in the news media. Small colleges should learn
from their experience and attempt to avoid this fact or
perception as completely as possible. Most educators
agree that professional sport is an unrealistic aspiration for
a young person. Development of other abilities pays
bigger dividends in todays’s society. I was frankly sur-
prised at the paradox of Davidson’s commitment to acade-
mia and Division I sports. The great reputation of
Davidson and other small liberal arts colleges depends not
on excellence in sports, but on excellence in education.

Sports at Rhodes has provided me with all the benefit
that Division I programs have provided their students and
alumni. Good student-athletes achieve on the field and in
class. Recognition of ability in sports is part of an individ-
ual’s reputation as is great achievement in academics.
Some manage both. Great school rivalries have existed
through several generations. The same can be achieved at
Davidson, given a period of adjustment.

Players and spectators enjoy sport at any level. Personal
interaction with the players makes the games exciting and
significant. I doubt that any game at any level of sport is
more significant than the one played by college friends and

classmates for the alma mater. I recall Grantland Rice’s
verse, “It matters not that you won or lost, but how you
played the game.” Proper competition depends on playing
in the proper league. Compete with schools with similar
motives and.ability.

Students will be found who have been prevented from
playing varsity because of the level of competition. Excel-
lent coaches are also available who will commit to a more
secure position based less on won-loss records than leader-
ship of youth and building character in their players.
Alumni will continue their support of the decisions of the
enlightened administration and faculty of Davidson.

I have confidence that Davidson is capable of handling
the transition with sensitivity to the needs of those most
affected - primarily coaches and players, Adjustments of
ambition, location, and emphasis will be made. I wish
good things to those making such changes. Bother the
individuals and the institution can profit.

Rhodes students and alumni welcome Davidson to the
world of small college athletics. We would enjoy any
exchange between these great schools, heretofore realistic
only in journals or lecture facilities, but now possible on
the fields of plays. And may the better school win. _

Tom White is an alumnus from Rhodes College, class of
1962.

the God of the GPA

and 2 reviews [actually they are twenty-minute quizzes].
The result of this exaggeration can be a loss of perspective
and 1400 students marching through hall apparently with-
out time to acknowledge anyone else.

A fellow student, atthe point of tears, told me last month,
“By today at five o’clock I must do this and this and that.
This is, without any doubt, as bad as it gets.” Certainly this
Student was having a rough day in terms of life as a
Davidson College student. But clearly an abundance of
things were good in her life; worries such as food, shelter,
and health were not hers. She had much for which to be
thankful, yet she wallowed in self-pity. This is just one
example of the lost perspective to which we all. can fall
prey. ;

Tunnel vision for school work goes hand-in-hand with
self-centeredness. Which is the cause and which is the
effect? Does self-centeredness cause tunnel vision, or is it
the reverse? It seems to be a vicious cycle.

Instead of complaint, resentment, and martyrdom, why
not adopt an outlook of gratitude? It would not require a

doctoral dissertation to establish that’ we have much for
which to be grateful, and that almost EVER YONE else has
a life a whole lot harder than we do. It only take the death
of a friend’s parent to remind us that “suffering” over
schoolwork represents a total loss of perspective.

Term papers and exams offer a chance to feel overbur-
dened and martyred. Term papers and exams call us
seriously to address our work without further-procfastina-
tion. To have tunnel vision, to lose perspective, and to
entrench ourselves in self-pity are not expressions of

. gratitude. Perhaps it is too easy to say in January and too

easy to forget in May: Davidson need not be an inStitution
of self-centered students worshipping: the. god of the
G.P.A. Living a complete life, while not overlooking the
responsibilities that-come with the Davidson opportunity,
should be held much more sacred.

Doug Hicks is a junior economics major from Indianapo-
lis, IN; he is spending the semester in the Davidson
program in Madrid, Spain.

How much do we want to be blessed?

I was interested in the thought provoking question raised
in the December issue of The Davidsonian concerning
“How much is enough?” with respect to what do we do for
the poor, hungry and homeless.

The author raised the issue of where to find the happy
medium between pure selfishness on the one hand and pure
altruism on the other. He admitted that, while he was not
a Christian, he espoused many Christian doctrines such as

the Golden Rule. He then asked for responses to the
question which he raised.

First, as a parent of a Davidson student, I am glad to see
this concern for the suffering. One of the things which we
were looking for in a college for our student was to find a
school which taught asense of responsibility towards those
less fortunate. We believe that this is part of what an
education at Davidson is all about. Jesus Christalso taught

commentaries from its
print all opinions that

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
readers. The editors will attemp
adhere to the following guidelines:
e All submissions should deal with subjects of interest to the
campus community.

¢ Submissions must be neatly typed or legibly hand-written.
The editors will also accept work submitted on 5.25” or 3.5”
IBM-formatted diskettes (and, truth be told, we’re partial to
them).

¢ All letters must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the Sunday before
the expected publication date.

¢ All commentaries. must be submitted by 7 p.m. on the
Saturday before the expected publication date, except for those .
on diskette, which are due at 7:07 p.m. Sunday.

¢ All submissions must be signed.Writers must present the

Opinions Policy

«All submissions should include the author’s address and

editors with compelling reasons if they donot wish theirnames-
printed with their work.

¢ The staff will not edit commentaries for content or for style,
but for the rules of English grammar only.

¢ Letters should be under 300 words in length. The editors ©
reserve the right to edit and/or condense any letter.

¢ The editors reserve the right not to print submissions which
contain factual errors, advertisements, or objectionable mate-
rial, or which represent a viewpoint very similar to other
letters printed dealing with the same topic.

phone number. Submissions to the “Commentaries” section
should include the following information: the author's home
city and state, ene class, and major field of study (or
profession).

that to whom much is given, much will be expected
(Parable of the Talents).

Next, while each individual will have to seek his and her
own “balance,” I believe another spiritual law which goes
into effect when we give of ourselves is the law of sowing
and reaping. Whatever we give out to others will return to
us, not necessarily immediately at all, but when we need it.
“Give and it shall be given unto you. Good’ measure
pressed down, shaken together and running over shall men
give unto your bosom” (Luke 6:38). To give is to Teceive,
When we give, we receive more back in ‘order to give more
out. May I then suggest the question to ask should be,
“How much do we want to be blessed?” The more we give,
the more we will be blessed. While I am a Christian, I
believe this law, paradoxical as it is, applies to anyone : who
taps into its truth.

One famous individual, Dag Hammarskjold, once Sec-
retary General of the United Nations, tells in his book,
Markings, that as he totally surrendered himself to service
in his position, he sensed a great white light to which he
was drawn closer and closer. Through his service and

_ surrender of his own life to others, he became a Christian,

and through this experience, he found happiness and
perfect peace. I suspect that anyone who totally surren- .
dered fis: or: ber life in-servion t-ntheams: wenid have's
similar experience.

Zoe M. Hicks is a lawyer from Atlanta, GA.
