Wednesday, December 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN 5
Man on the street interviews

How much do you have left to do before exams?

Photos and interviews by roving features editor HEATH HARDAGE i.

i |
wh a8
vost ae

i

Win ow

, 2

Senior Chip Allen: “Actually, I’m not too bad off. I only have two papers left. One is ten Freshman Deidre Montague (right): “I have a
to fifteen pages and the other is five pages. I’m pretty psyched.” chemistry review Monday, a calculus take-

home quiz and I have to study for exams. I’m
just tired of working period.”

Freshman Rachel Hall: “I have aHumes paper
due tomorrow, the same calculus take-home
test, and a French two-day test plus a French
oral examination.”

Junior Brad Wanzenberg (left): “I
won't see light for three weeks be-
cause my head isso far buried in the
books.” «.

(Sophomore Marlette Gibson, cen-

Junior George Shead: “I have a
ter, lends her support.)

lot.”

Sophomore Martin Bricio: “I have a oa guaan
Humes paper I haven't started.” Junior Tom Grant: “I have two term papers due
Monday and Tuesday respectively plus a phi-
losophy ‘essay arid one Classics Abroad term
paper. HO HO HO! Merry Christmas!”

- ston

Sophomore Scott Townshend: “I have enough to keep

‘ me busy from now until January!”
Sophomore Paul Pritchett: “I have two tests and

a term paper.” Sophomore Arjun Srinivasan: “I have too much!”

Sophomore Craig DeRan: “Ihave two tests and a
term paper.”

Nas

een Junior Chris Fiore: “I don’t have that much, I just ee j ‘

Sophomore LeAnn Simmons: “Ihave two tests, completed my last paper, and I have one review | _ hl. aiid ss

problem sets and a ten-page paper left.” left in class, but it’s a final.” Sophomre Carla Naegle: “I don’t have a lot to do. Ihave
one more review left before exams.”

Sophomore Jenny Usherwood: “I have a lab , ; 4

practical and a test tomorrow. I have two small ; Sophomre Liz Howe: “I have a paper due tomorrow, a

history books to read plus a Spanish book and _ problem set for Macro due on Monday, and a test in

another book to finish.” Macro on Monday.”
