Thursday, February 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

tans

ia

CS

11

=

KAMIKAZE MASCOT

THE DAVIDSONIAN -

Thomas Hampson Moore, Editor
Jennifer Hoffman, Associate Editor Muadi Mukenge, News Editor
Hap Bryant, Sports Editor
Lisa Gerrard, Features Editor John Wightman, Business Manager
Jackie Glynn, David Host, Opinions Editors Y
Stan Armistead, Inside Art Editor Alex Hayden, Photography Editor
John Hutchinson, Bill Scouten, Advertising Managers

Holme Oltrogge, Circulation Menager Cristin Williams, Production Editor

i

Letters

All Sports Dinner

Dear Editor,

It is late Sunday evening, February 19, .

following the “All Sports Dinner” at Vail
Commons. I ought to be typing a review
that Iam distributing tomorrow morning,
but events at the first ever “All Sports
Dinner” have moved me to write my first
ever letter to The Davidsonian.

Why did I go to the dinner? I went to
honor our student-athletes. They are not
another community within Davidson, buta
valuable and integral part of the entire
Davidson community. I see them in class.
In the short 7+ years I’ve taught at
Davidson, I’ve had the pleasure of number-

ing among my students members of the

football, soccer, women’s club soccer, men
and women’s basketball, volleyball, field
hockey, wrestling, men and women’s track
and cross country, men and women’s ten-
nis, and baseball teams. Some. student-
athletes, like some non-athletes, excel in
the classroom. The great majority of stu-

dent-athletes in my classes, unlike many
non-athletes, are academically disciplined. _

‘I’m also a fan. I attend home events as

frequently as I can. I cheer calls in favor of

' our team, and boo calls against us. I yell

_ encouragement when things aren’t going

_ so well, and whoop it up when they are. I

_ try tocome on time, and stay until the event

isover. I go homehappy when we win, and

: disappointed when we lose. (My kinder-

- garten-age son always goes home happy;
" late in the game his allegiance switches to

team that’s ahead.) These are all as-

j pects of the job description of.a fan. I'ma.

n because Davidson athletic teams are

- part of “us”; as m h part of “us” as such
oth facets of Ouf cominunity asc oirs in |
performance, rators in press. re~.

~ leases, or faculty at conferences, when they
represent “us” to the outsideworld. Weare
all members of a larger Davidson family,
and a family st its own.‘
“These are some of the reasons I chose to
express my appreciation for our -student-

athletes by attending the “All Sports Din--

‘ner” this evening, It was a great idea, ae

as best I.can make out, credit for this idea
goes to Carleton: Pritchard and Bobby
Hussey. Thank you to Carleton Pritchard.
and his staff for another fine meal. And.
thanks to responsible parties, the Dean of
Students office among them, for footing
the bill...

What could have marred such a well-in-
tentioned celebration? It was something
which was said, and not in private conver-,
sation, but in a “few remarks” addressed to
the gathering by our own Dean Will Terry.
This was a time for reunion; for dispensing
with the recrimination which accompanied
the Trustee’s decision relative to Division I
athletics; for solidifying common ground,
Instead, Dean Terry managed to pour salt
on wounds that had just begun to heal.

What did we hear from the Dean? We

heard a talk whose assumed audience must.

have been male, despite the occasional “he
or she”/"his orher.” We heard a reminisce

that what this college needs is afew more .

“good ol’ country boys.” How about some
“good ol’ country girls?” Besides, once
Davidson takes the “country” out of them,
they’re just good ol’ boys. We heard
comments equating Division I athletics
with some sort of. ‘macho measure of man-
liness. We heard that Division | athletics is
a bastion against northeastern elitism.
Frankly, I never thought I'd hear Dean

Terry sound so much like Jesse Helms, By -

the way, did our women tennis players
think they were striking a blow against

to “wimpism” and;“preppiness” when they -

‘moved from Division-III to Division I?
This was an evening to celebrate all

Davidson student-athletes, men and
_ women, past, present, and future. It started’ *
as a show of common fellowship, but it _
ended with the Dean of Students stoking é

the coals of disharmony. ‘Thank you, Dean,

for the meal, but no thanks for the indiges-. |:

tion that ten,

Se aad ur eye, gehs
. ‘ 4 a

Sincerely. : ies ese oe LU org mm ‘

‘Stephen L. Davis ae
Associate Professor of Mathematics

Weather

It only takes a quick look out the window to see that Spring 1989
has yet to arrive in Davidson with any consistency.:The Washington
Post ina situation like this usually turns and blames the Weather Ad-
ministration for poor planning; this seems appropriate for the mess in
which we find ourselves. We can put a man on the moon yet we can’t
keep the sun out long enough for anyone to get a decent tan! It’s very
discouraging for us liberals sometimes.

There seems to be a fundamental lack of skill on the part of the
state Weather Administrations in the South. An editor’s brother is in
school ai St. John’s University in Minnesota; there they’ ve got winter
and in no small way! On a day that Charlotte and the entire East Coast
were experiencing temperatures in the 70’s and 80’s, St. John’s kept its
cool at 20 below zero. Now that, my friends, is an efficient weather
bureaucracy!

If state weather planners in Raleigh could pick upsome pointers
on how to select a season and stay the course, the quality of life for
millions of Carolinians would be improved vastly. No more psychic
dilemmas each morning: “Do I wear shorts or a parka today?” Few
studies have been done on the damaging effects of such a daily
dichotomy, but it should not be underestimated. Why, we’ ve heard that
in isolated cases such a severe decision-making structure dropped on
unsuspecting Southern heads has caused some to actually like grits.
This is no laughing matter, my friends. If the stories we’ve heard are
true, incompetence on the state and federal level has induced at least
one revoiting character trait in otherwise charming people. If the crack
team of Duke researchers in Durham succeeds at establishing a link
between the weather fluctuations and an affinity for professional
wrestling, then we know we've got a full-scale medical emergency on
our hands.

The Davidsonian is published during the school year by the studénts of Davidson College. No,
it’s not. Yes, it is. No, it’s not. No, really, it is! Address correspondence to: The Davidsonian,
Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036, or tie it to a brick and toss it through the window of Belk 126;
they’ll make sure it gets to us. Phone (704) 892-2148 and -2149. Offices are located on the top
floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or
Commentaries do. not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian,
“and in fact rarely represent the author's views, strangely enough. Subscriptions cost $25. per
year..Copyright available on request. Advertising rates are held by the Trustees of Davidson
‘College, and you know what a secretive bunch they are. General information section: While
“Legal” Larry ‘Sledge is no longer the head of IMAC, ‘he'd be more than happy to hear
- constructive criticism of the program. So, give him a cull any pane, day or night, at 896-6671. |
| Special Projects Editor: Maria Douglas.
| “Assistant News Editor: Margaret Carroll. RRR TE ears .
Assistant Features Editor: Bethany Deptuch. pees apap
_ Assistant Sports Editor: Bruce Newsome. - = =
~ News Staff: David Bearce, John Burns, Peter I Bynum, Jay Chaudhuri, Suzanne Craymer, Maria
Douglas, Beth Drummond, Rami El-Amine, Carol Gatewood, Gates Grainger, Heath Hardage,
Stan Humphries, Delia Johnson, Joanne Maheras,-Pete Mangone, Ed vowels ‘Mary nee,
Sharon Lee Schwartz, David Scott, Gary, Wheeler,:Molly Young... >
.. Features Staff: Katharine Armstrong, Jennifer Bean, Lee Bushkell, deat Caroll, Hilary
_ Coman, Suzanne Craymer, Bethany Deptuch, Heath Hardage, Tim Jacks, Robert Jones, Nusrat
‘Khan, Frank Lord, Joanne Maheras, Prem Manjooran, Charles Marshall, Virginia: Mischen,
"(Mary Faith Mount, Kim Munsterman, Shannon’ O’Shields, Sharon Lee Schwartz, Anjali | ;
; Sharma, Trent Stevens, David Thompson, Jessica Thurbee, Julie Zimmermann. © «| | |
Sports Staff: John Bums, Lee Canipe, Dan Cotton, Larry Dagenhart, Robért Gnibb, John
Maheras, Charles. Marshall; Mary Faith Mount, Bruce Newsome, Holme OltroggePhil
Prescott, Mark Puckett, Chan Sheppard, “Legal” Larry Sledge, Bill Smith, Todd Stephenson.
Photography Staff: Brett Berry, Jonathan Bouwman, Matt Goad, Holt Hathaway, ia
. Keider, Tonja Lecklither, Robert Marshall, Lucy Siler, Mark Steen. - ~
Staff Artists:-Kevin Dunn, ‘Michael D. Schill, J.W. Mullis, > «- se j
Circulation Staff: Beth Mitchell, Robbie McKay, John Mullis, ipecani Smith, sae. :
. Spiritual Consultant From Afar: John a Santon, Harris, i

