Monday, January 23, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

International Journal

Returning JYA’ers unpack adventures from abroad

Each year begins with several familiar faces missing from the Davidson
campus, as juniors take leave of the North Carolina countryside to experi-
ence firsthand the romance of travel, to explore the faces, words and places
of foreign lands, and to attend universities whose ivy is older than the Dec-
laration of Independence. This week and next week students returning from
fall term programs abroad have the opportunity to share their adventures in
The Davidsonian. Look for more entries in the International Journal in the

next issue.

I wouldn’ t have traded the

experience for anything else.
—MUADI MUKENGE
Ambassador to France

“How does it feel to be back?”

Since returning to Davidson after a se-
mester in France I have answered this
question several times a day. It’s nice to be
greeted by people who are glad to see me
again. And I’m glad to see them after along

Meeting people was a joyous adventure.
I had classes with students from various
countries--Colombia, Italy, Zimbabwe,
Belgium, England, Mexico, Finland, and
Japan--to name a few. The majority were
graduate students or recent high school
graduates: It was stimulating to talk with
them about their thoughts on certain issues,
life in their countries, and their career
goals. Young people as a whole were very

absence. But easy to talk
de ‘eal abies: “In my opinion, all students, regard- lena
tion? less of major, should try to go some- The
Actually, I’m | where during the college years. Expand | French and
thankfultohave | your horizons a little, meet new people | other for-
mi etd and see places you’ve only read about.” eee de
.». SOL e -

to be with fam- ~Muadi Mukenge otypes of
ily and friends American

once again. Some of those who went
abroad didn’t return. I also love the warmer
weather here, the people who smile a little,
and living in a ing stable environ-
ment.

The terrible thing i is that I’ve forgotten
some people’s names (now you know why

I simply didn’t say your name, when we -
chatted). But I do remember faces and the

fact that one is a eae or a former
classmate, etc.

On the other hand, Davidson seems even
slower than ever, after, returning from the
hubbub of Paris and Tours, France. No

shops and old streets to explore. No crazy ©

traffic and musicians in the street or metro.
I must admit that the aura of slow motion in
Davidson is slowly fading as I become
reinvolved in extra-curricular activities.

Going to France was the best experience
Icould have had. First of all, it was achance
to improve my speaking ability and to
immerse myself in French culture. Sec-
ondly, it was a time to have a change of
pace,.and a change of scene.

In my opinion, all students, regardless of

major, should try to go somewhere during

the college years. Expand your horizons a‘

little, meet hew people and see places
you’ve only read about.

France has so much history and beauty in
it. I visited 700 year-old chateaus and de-
scended into the dark dungeons, I went to
the gold-, velvet-, and glass-filled Ver-
sailles, the Louvre museum, and the
beaches of Normandy where the Allied
forces landed in 1944. I also love the ethnic
diversity of Paris. It is refreshing and
makes life interesting. The radio regularly
plays music from the Caribbean, England,
Africa, Spain and the United States. [loved
it!

Contrary to many students who have
gone abroad, my academic experience was

not easy, but it all depends on the program .

one choses. I found the French professors
very strict--they expected one interpreta-
tion or expression and didn’t accept any-
thing which varied from that standard.

In a way that was good because I worked
harder, but some students (including the
French) became frustrated. The work in the
advanced writing classes was very rigorous
and there were several students who left
school before finals.

life than I thought. I found myself explain-
ing over and over again that no, everyone is
not rich, very few people drive Cadillacs,
everyone doesn’t live and act as the people
in Dallas do and we eat other things besides
hamburgers.

When I asked my hostess what she
thought of former President Reagan, she
responded’ that the French don’t trust any
former actors in political office. Well,
well, well! Many people held the belief that
the U.S. was a capitalist monster. Younger
people are more enthusiastic and want to
visit.

Many blacks, on the other hand, have no
desire to come here. The U.S. has a terrible
reputation as far as racism is concerned.
Even though the perception of racism is
more of the past and not of the present, the
splatter of recent racist events is what is
portrayed in the French media and thus
taken as the norm. Having enjoyed for the

most part non-discriminatory treatment in
Europe, the American image evokes no
desire to emigrate.

The problem of racial harassment in
France is more acute for Arabs, millions of
which have made France their home since
the 1960’s.. Unemployment is blamed on
the fact that Arabs take jobs away from the
French--never mind that Arabs often ac-
cept jobs the French don’t want. Arabs are
relentlessly harassed.

The recent growth of Skinheads--a neo-
Nazist group--is in reaction to the presence
of Arabs, communists and blacks. On two
occasions there were Skinheads a few
yards from me. I was a little apprehensive
but nothing happened.

My stay was made a little less enjoyable
due to strikes by several sectors of the work
force, including the postal service. Certain
postal personnel refused to work for, ap-
proximately six weeks. It took mail took
three weeks to be sent between the United
States and France--which is agonizing for
visiting students!

Most of the demonstrations were being
carried out in Paris and fortunately my
group had moved to Tours when they be-
gan. With the exception of postal incon-
veniences, our lives were not greatly af-
fected.

Nurses were the first to go on strike. The
instability was compounded by the trans-
port strike--several train and metro serv-
ices were suspended. Kids stayed home as
some teachers went on strike.

The entire country was forced into a situ-
ation of uncertainty and instability--a situ-
ation which could not be easily remedied
because the French budget has inadequate
funds to increase the salaries of even one
group of workers.

When I left in December, the problems
had not been com-

ever since I left Zaire. There are multitudes
of Zaireans who have moved to Belgium. I
was astounded to see so much of my culture
at one time. In Atlanta, where I make my
home, I would guess that there are less than
50 Zaireans; in the entire United States
there are not many, thus the culture is not
apparent.

On the contrary, in Brussels I saw
Zairean clothing and record stores, jewelry
and art shops--an entire mall! There were
Zairean restaurants and clubs. I didn’t have
time to see everything so I definitely have
to go back. Of course my friends thought I
was an alien and we talked and talked--
exchanging stories of life in the States and
life in Zaire. I watched videos of Zairean
performers and taped a lot of music.

On another occasion I flew to London to
visit my pen pal. We’ve been writing for
eight years! I had a wonderful time talking
with her and her family. That Saturday we
did a power tour of London--Big Ben,
Buckingham Palace, the Tower of London,
Madame Tussaud’s Wax Museum, Gar-
funkel’s Restaurant, and Leceister Square.
I saw the beautiful countryside as well.

Otherwise, I enjoyed the marvelous
French cuisine and its quaint cafes. I spent
alot of money, but hey, you only live once
and I don’t know when I’ll go back. I
became rather close to our hostess and her
cat, Camel. My French definitely im-
proved and I believe I have a wider per-
spective of things than before I embarked
on my trip. I have an address book full of
the names of friends which I may see again-
-one day.

In Search of Scotland
—-SUZANNE CRAYMER
Ambassador to Scotland
Riding Scot-rail from London to the Uni-

; versity of
pletely resolved. It “Pubs acted as the great melting pot | a per-
was arelieftoreturn | of University life; after or before | deen, 1
to the stable environ-
ment of the United | Classes, students would always be at | peered
Sais the closest pub, the tiny St. Machar.” vou a -

I luckily had the —Suzanne Craymer out the
chance to visit other ‘window.

countries. I went to Brussels, Belgium for
four days and had a ball, I have some family
friends there I haven’t seen in 13 years,

Wearing a French beret, Muadi Mukenge poses in front of Mt. St. Michel’s on the
northern coast of France.

The North Sea flashed by, spotted with oil
rigs, but as of yet no sign of anything stero-
typically Scottish, no lochs, kilts, or even
castle ruins.

When the train arrived in Aberdeen, the
northern-most Scottish city at Siberian lati-
tudes, only severe gray granite buildings
greeted us. Cold wind whistled in back
streets as I, clad only in a light jacket,
hurried to my dorm.

AsI soon learned, the city’s hard exterior
provided shelter for perhaps the most
friendly, open people in all of Europe. The
Scots proved easy to meet and fun to know.
A ceildh (pronounced keelie) could arise
spontaneously in the midst of any social
gathering, from private parties to trendy
discos. Ceildhs required only two things:
whiskey and music.

When the music started, people set their
glasses down, grabbed partners and has-
tened to the dance floor. Everyone partici-
pated as the band began the first reels.

‘With racous whoops and hollers, dancers
whirled around the floor, often stepping on,
stomping or.elbowing other participants in
the wild confusion. Inevitably, it all ended
with the immortal Highland Fling.

Apart from the dancing, ceildhs often
provoked long conversations, Scots
greeted me with the glad recognition “Oh,
an American!” before offering their sad
condolences on the state of the U.S.

See JYA JOURNALS, page 6

