Monday, February 6, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a

Will (On the Left) Montgomery and Mike (Bandana-Head) Malloy search for the puck in
IMAC street hockey action as the Ist Belk Gladiator Pucks took on the 3rd East Ragin’
Horses, It was such an exciting game that we forgot to get the score.

In Good Health...

Photo by Robert Marshall

Take a prophylactic siesta

“By MARK PUCKETT
Classes end. After eating lunch and frit-

tering away thirty minutes on trifling er-

rands, you scurry to. your room and dump
your books on your desk. You'set the alarm
to wake you in an hour, and upon seeing
your bed you dive into it and hug your
pillow. In the:arms of Morpheus you doze
heartily. :

Yes, you have squandered an hour in
stagnation, but when you awaken in your
pool of drool, you are a polished entity.
You have a substantial self-existence with
evergreen vigor. And you are at one with
the Cosmos.

The Beneficence of Napping: In this
Sunday’s Parade magazine the article
“What .a Difference a Nap Makes” by
Morton Hunt tells us that a forty-minute
doze after lunch can 1) quicken reaction
times, 2) improve afternoon test-taking
skills and 3) promote better mental and
physical health.

In the same article, psychiatrist Martin
Orne says that this “prophylactic [preven-
tive], napping” restores alertness. And
sleep researcher David Dinges adds the
following: “55 percent of college students

nap regularly... because their schedules
permit it and because they don’t sleep
enough at night.”

6 Meee i Kg
inv Maier

e
Co biys sai hay +0 ye

Furthermore, Orne Says it is best to nap
“not when you feel the need most strongly-
-anap before you're very tired will prevent
fatigue.”
Ona final note, if you pied more than an
hour, chances are you will have trouble
falling asleep later'that night. Researchers

_ also add that “sleep inertia” may cause a

feeling of grogginess upon waking and that

it-is best to. wait-fifteen minutes before’

taking control of a complex situation.

If you feel lethargic, take a power-
snooze. And remain in good health because
of it.
eNext issue: Phobias!

HERE’S JOE’S QUOTE, from page 8

In high school, I had an old wrestling coach
who didn’t know.much about wrestling. He
was a football coach. This is what he would
yell whenever I’m on the mat: “Don’t do
nothing dumb; do something smart.” It was
obvious, but it made sense.

NOTE: Player profiles are for getting an
insight into and hearing the voices of
Davidson's athletes. Profiles are not in-
tended to interview only the “best” ath-
letes.

IMACtion

Basketball wraps up season;
teams prepare for tournament

By LARRY SLEDGE

Wednesday marked the end of the 1988-
89 IMAC basketball season, and emotions
ran high as teams tuned up for this year’s
tournament. Highlighting this week’s ac-
tion was a match-up between the Swishing
Gerbil Pack and Simple Columnar Hoops.

The first half was a see-saw battle. Ben
Hooker of the Hoops scored 10 points in the
half, keeping his team within striking dis-
tance, with the score 19-14 at the intermis-
sion.

The song remained the same for much of
the second half, until Hoops found them-
selves forced to foul. Gerbil’s Chris Scott
hit five free throws late in the game, as his
team pulled away toa47-35 victory, finish-
ing the season at 5-1.

In other B-league action, Shoney’s
Breakfast Bar got 10 points from Ken
Jones, Clint Massengill and David “I can’t
go to Florida” Ray as they topped the
Erectors 37-33. Kevin Burns contributed
17 points as Carolina’s Dream beat Cellar
Dwellers #2 43-36.

A full round of games took place for A-
league this week, with most teams getting
in two games. Second Little’s N.U.B.Z.
improved their record to 7-0 this week,
beating the Inebriates 49-32 and the Old

RING

Men 55-45. Tim Kerns was the high scorer
in both games, getting 21 and 19 respec-
tively. Greg Jones’ 17 points paced the
Wolfpack to a 54-47 victory over the Re-
ally Nice Guys. The Teabaggers hoped to
make it two in a row for thé Nice Guys
when the two teams. squared off Sunday
night. But unable to overcome the Nice
Guys’ full court pressure, they ended up
getting spanked 69-47. Robby Moore led
all scorers with 29, Bob Dixon scored 23
points to help Delta Force land the
Teabaggers their second straight loss,
obliterating them 78-43. Delta Force took
on the Wolfpack, 1989 pre-season champs,
in a battle for #1 late Wednesday. The
Greek Wanna-be’s topped Goo 51-43 be-
hind 16 points from John Reel.

In the final game this week, Gat Caper-
ton and Dave Lilly each scored 15 as Phi
Delt’s Connie got its first win, edging
Kappa Sig’s Hoss 49-45.

In women’s action this week, Marion
Stone poured in 12 points as the Roaches
whipped Brant’s Beauties 27-15. In the
only other game, the Insatiables destroyed
the Old Women 45-23, securing the tourna-
ment’s #1 seed and making themselves a
strong favorite to repeat as the women’s
champion.

DAY

eon Sale!

Order your college ring NOW.

~JOSTE 5

AMERICA:

C2 Oe cE Goce

R IN G™
i)

Date: FEB. 6-7 Place: BOOKSTORE

“Time: 10A.M.-3 P.M. Deposit Required: —

Meet withyour Jostens representative for full details.
See our complete ring selection on display in your college bookstore.
