Monday, April 24, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

YSSC News

allowed on campus.

Kappa Sigma, Cashion’s and First Charter
sponsor M.A.D.D. run

Kappa Sigma sponsored a run with Cashion’s and First Charter this past Saturday,
April 22, to raise money for Mothers Against Drunk Driving (M.A.D.D.) Charlotte
chapter. Sixty runners collected sponsors and ran one mile each in a 46-mile relay. The
fraternity estimates $1,000 raised. First Charter provided t-shirts for the participants.

A 24-hour service hotline has been installed to enable students interested in service
opportunities to receive information on weekly activities. The number is 892-2032. A
video describing service projects is also available in the Union.

Here’s a list of what’s going now:

- Adult Literacy: Beth Duttera, -6294. Students tutor adults in the community.
- Big Brother: Tad Little, -6564. Students are paired with area boys. The whole group
wenttothecircus, and they are working on Campus Cards for Little Brothers to be legally -

- co Sister: Debbie deSola, -6472; Mary Faith Mount, -6300. Students are paired with

walk.

<

Cornelius Elementary girls. ;
- CROP: Angali Sharma, -6461; Molly Graver, -6079. CROP lunch is held every
Sonny in the 900 room from 1-2 p.m. Plans are now being made for next fall’s CROP

- Davidson Day Care: Meredith Gabel, -6030. Volunteers are needed to visit the Day
Care Center in the afternoon and play with the kids.
- Davidson Elementary Tutoring: Susan Wilson, -6338; Stephanie Wyatt, 6 -6356. Vol-
unteers tutor Mon.-Thurs. 3:15-5 p.m. Sign up for any day.

- Florence Crittenden: Louisa Weinrich, -8122. Volunteers visit the home for unwed

mothers every Wednesday.

- Habitat for Humanity: Tindal Davis, -6597; Robbie McKay, -6629; Julia Boyd, -6589.
The first house was finished last week and work is being done on the second house.

Volunteers are needed Sat. 8-5 and Sun. 2-5.

- North Meck YMCA: Brian Gatchel, -6514; John Patton, -6207. oar if
you are interested in coaching or refereeing some kids’ games.
- Oxfam/Hunger Issues: Sandra Smith, -7104; March 6-10: Canned goods and atotal of
$150 were collected to restock the Metrolina Food Bank. Volunteers are mended Sr
community hot lunch program - Convince your eating house to participate. ~ ae
- Prison Visitation: Matt Terrell, -6507. Only guys can visit the Huntersville m minimum —
security prison on Fridays.
- Seigle Ave: Kathy Beach, -6302; Katy Reynolds, -6338. Students ‘rave! to Charlotte
Wednesday evening to help with elementary school kids in Come sseupent s vain
- Senior Citizen nee —— Julie Earle, 6219. 2

Computer virus destroys
636 psychology programs

By MUADI MUKENGE

Acomputer virus by the name of
nVirA eradicated over 636 psy-
chology programs and also ap-
peared on computers at the Com-
puter Services Center and the
Center for Special Studies before
being destroyed Wednesday. The
virus attacked only Apple comput-
ers.

Associate Professor of Biology
John Brockway said that the virus
first manifested itself on the 11th
of April in computers located in
the sensory and perception labora-
tories in basement Chambers. He
suspects that an infected 3 1/2"
disk was inserted into a computer,
where it lodged itself and infected
all disks inserted thereafter. Those
disks in turn infected other com-
puters on campus. All programs,
including those on hard disk, are
infected.

nVirA lies dormant for 11 days,
said Brockway, and during that
period systems operate as normal.
Once it attacks however, nothing
can be done as systems “crash” or
commands receive slow response.

According to Lee Norris, coor- |

dinator of academic PC services at
the Computer Services Center, the
virus attacks a particular statement
in a program, and disables its exe-
cution.

Because he had no backup files

fd

on the hard disk, Brockway was
forced to reinstall each program
from their original disks
(cleaned)--a process which took
18 hours. ©

“During those 18 hours I was
unable to grade papers nor to pre-
pare lectures,” he lamented. “I had
no access to my calendar, ad-
dresses and phone and FAX num-
bers.” Three students lost their
projects because they had not
saved their works elsewhere.

The virus was finally destroyed
using a program entitled Disinfec-
tant which iseffective only against
that particular virus. There are
several types of viruses, each of
which has its own anti-viral pro-
gram.

Brockway contacted the
MacUser’s Group in Berkeley, Ca.
and was instructed to use the Dis-
infectant program against nVirA.

Norris “downloaded” Disinfec-
tant from Compu Serve, a com-
puter information facility in Char-
lotte. Psychology computers are
now Clean. All computers at the
Computer Services Center were
disinfected before the virus mani-
fested itself. Norris is in the proc-
ess of inspecting professors’
Apple computers and said that

’ student Apple owners may request

the same service.
According to Norris, many pro-

HOLD UP, from page 1

money and jewelry.

The robbers pulled the manager out for

restaurant at that time, and the four suspects
were also seated at a table and had ordered

food.

The Charlotte Observer quoted the
Dragon Inn manager as saying the four
suspects “were in their 20s, neatly dressed,
with short haircuts” and “looked like regular
customers.” The owner was confident that

the suspects were Vietnamese.

According to Miller, one of the men
walked up behind him and grabbed his
shoulder, pointing! a gun to his head and
ordering him and Bell into the kitchen.
There the other customers and employees _
were forced into a walk-in cooler. It was
then that stiesnliners oomtieceted all oftheir

and called the police.

house on Club Road.

several minutes and then put her back in and
locked the cooler door. A few minutes later |”
some of the employees forced the dooropen. | ~~

While the police were on the scene at the
Dragon Inn, anotherrobbery occurreddown
the street at the House of Hunan.

Charlotte police are now trying to locate

_the three suspects from a robbery that oc- |
curred-at a Chinese restaurant in October. | _
The three became suspects following the |
shooting cni.ot a Veneer Paes *

The police are still i inyplipang Friday’s —
robberies and trying to form possible links
" between these robberies and the string of
others which have occurred.

fessors’ computers were de-
stroyed last week from a virus at
Western Carolina University.
Brockway says that he is now
forced to check each student’s disk
before saving programs onto psy-
chology computers. He does not
however, suspect students of hav-

ing created the virus.

“Creating a virusis very compli-

cated and creating an antivirus is:

even more complicated,” he
Stated.

Norris suspects that a student
innocently acquired a virus-con-
taining game in a public computer
center and played it on pschology
lab computers, which became in-
fected. He recommends that the
best way to avoid viruses is to not
copy system software, a process
which is against the law.

“It’s best to buy software or to -

use public software,” he said.
However, public computers are
not always protected and it is a
good idea to run a virus check on
them. :

Norris maintained that students
and faculty should not panic, al-
though the virus is “very frustrat-
ing -- it’s like an invasion of pri-
vacy.”

Because the college now has
virus detection programs, “It’s not

anything to panic about...it can be ~

fixed,” he assured.

By SUZANNE CRAYMER

Assistant Dean of Students
Harriet Fulton, Director of
Residence Life Tom Jennings
and his wife, Financial Aid
Assistant Roni Jennings, plan
to leave Davidson in June.

Fulton leaves to pursue
studies at the University of
Baltimore which will enable
her to become a family | thera-
pist. She will take courses for
one year, then complete the re-
quirements with an internship
in clinical services.

Fulton decided to com-
plete her education last year
after she took a class i in family

' therapy.

“I took a course to test it
out and really enjoyed i it, “ she
said. ; :

Davidson first employed
Fulton in the Development
Office nine years ago. She later

she could interact with stu-
dents. Her present position was
obtained several years after.
As Assistant Dean of Stu-
dents, Fulton has trained hall
counselors, worked with trans-
fer students and helped form
support groups. She alsopro-
moted student awareness of
such issues as alcohol and sexu-

students to be the best part of
her job, but could not counsel

"“Kaatinisteatees id)
farewell at year’s end

‘to visit.”

the University of Virginia.

moved to the Careers Office so ~

~ ingin’ the financial aid office in
ality. Fulton found talking with

ee, ag)

administrator. Obtaining her
certificate will allow Fulton to
become a full-time counselor.
She will, however, miss work- =}>
ing with Davidson students. _ “45

“T have enjoyed being < 1
hereand knowing! will seemy ~ oa,
friends when they return forre- ».
unions,” said Fulton: “I’ll just ~-}-
haye to consider myself a Part
of the class of 1989 and return

Tom Jennings also pins
to further his education. He
will work toward his doctorate
degree in higher education at

After three years, Jennings
hopes to find a job in business
or administration. He received
his bachelor’s degree in 1983
from James Madison Univer-
sity and began his job in
Davidson’s Residence . Life
office in 198
Jennings “mixed”
feelings about leaving ©
oath edt) poet es he has
miahy good friends here,

hea exes mpeg
abol Charlot-
isle are 3:

nings will ac-

ooljan ndtoChar--

lottesville. She started work-

1986. She hopes to continue
working in admissions and
financial aid at the ne

ey

