8

Monday, April 24, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Students imitate Elizabethan ensemble in Shakespeare work

By LISA JACKSON
In a classroom search for authenticity,
Davidson students produced their own ren-
dition of Shakespeare’s All’s Well That
Ends Well and also handled all aspects of its
production.

The production was presented -on
Shakespeare’s birthday weekend—April
21-23—in Lingle Chapel of the Davidson
College Presbyterian Church.

These students in English professor Cyn-
thia Lewis’ Performing Shakespeare class

/ AUNT MIDGE
IE KIDS ARE

:“SENIORS--SENIORS:

COCHHSHHOHOHOHOHSOHOHOHSHOSCECHOOLOCLCOTOCHCLCHOLCEOHOOEOECEE

PLEASE COMPLETE AND RETURN
THE SURVEY YOU RECEIVED
RECENTLY.

Your participation will help us
evaluate and improve programs
and services.

If you have questions or need a survey,

contact the Office of Institutional Research.
8 Jackson Court

Telephone 892-2219

THANKS FOR YOUR COOPERATION!

remained true-to Elizabethan-and-Shake-
spearean traditions. They consider them-
selves to be an ensemble instead of just a
cast, and that means building the set, sewing
costumes and evencomposing the music for
their production. They did everything from
researching the banners that would have ap-
peared in ancient Florence to sewing cur-
tains for the stage. As in Shakespeare’s day,
this play has no single director. Lewis and
all students contribute their own ideas and
opinions on how scenes should be done.

“Tt’s unbelievable what these students are
doing at the last minute to bring this to-
gether,” said Lewis, “but even this is Shake-
spearean, because his theater was very spon-
taneous and probably patched together in
some ways at the last minute.”

All’s Well That Ends Well is one of
Shakespeare’s mostrarely performed plays.
Helena, a beautiful but poor physician’s
daughter, is in love with a nobleman, Ber-
tram, who neither desires nor deserves her.
Bertram tries to make Helena’s task of
winning him impossible by telling her that
he will not reciprocate her love until she is
pregnant with his child, though he refuses to
sleep with her. But through an ingenious
trick, Helena substitutes herself in bed for
another woman whom Bertram desires, and
fulfills his outlandish conditions by bécom-
ing pregnant.

Helena finally convinces Bertram that she
has satisfied his every demand of her, and
yet Bertram almost seems capable of reject-

«1, DON'T WORRY
MATAM, WELL HAVE
YOUR PIZZAS THERE
IN_3O MINUTES OR
LESS. YOU HAVE

OUR GUARANTEES

JUST ONE
OF THE SECRETS
THAT MAKES
DOMINO'S PIZZA ,
S000000 GooD;

ANOTHER SAFE
|) AND ON-TIME
DELIVERY /

_. Phone: 896-8007

Across I-77 in Shops on the Green
Cornelius

We will be open through exams!

n
‘2
C4
z
°
a

PIZZA

*Guaranteed 30-minute delivery. Call store for details.
Limited delivery areas. Drivers carry less than $20.

©1988 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

ing her again. The final, lingering tension
between Helena and Bertram reminds us of
how little we understand the love we feel.

Students found that the production expe-
rience gave them exciting insights into
Shakespeare’s writing. Jim Dillon, a senior
English major who plays the part of Ber-
tram, said, “You can get the basic meaning
of what Shakespeare was trying to do by
reading the plays, but often you gloss over
what could be a very important line. It’s not
until you’re standing there saying those
lines that you begin to understand what he
meant.”

Lewis began the class in January by hav-
ing students study the text of All’ s Well That
Ends Well and scholarly criticism of the
play’s meaning. They also studied the his-
tory of the Shakespearean theatre, actors
and performances. The last two-thirds of the
semester has been spent on putting together
the performance.

There are 15 students in the class. Some
have only theatrical experience and some
have only English backgrounds. “What
happens,” says Lewis, “is a cross-fertiliza-
tion between these two kinds of students.
They teach each other.”

Alison Chapman, a senior English major
who plays the part of Rynaldo, has no acting
experience but does know a lot about
Shakespeare from summer research in
Elizabethan drama and an internship at the
Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington.
“Tlove Shakespeare, but I’ vealways studied
it as a text,” she says. “Now I’m seeing it as
a script, as something meant to be per-
formed.”

Lewis sees the class as more than just a
study of Shakespeare. She describes it as an
“indoors” Outward Bound.program. “You
can’t put on a whole play by yourself,” she
says. “The students have to learn to rely on
each other to get things done. It’s a lessonin
community because for anyone to be suc-
cessful, everyone has to be Seige

Do you think Shakespeare built sets for
his plays? He may not have gone that far, but
Shakespearean actors had a much more
active role in their productions than do their
modern counterparts.

