Friday, April 14, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

> tone six yar

“ class members to recall the US.

3 memory can be improved

oink ‘coaiies ‘yourself for forgetting the capi-

s that ¢ I unique, so different associations though most students protested,
rou h our senses is not auto- tals of East Asian countries,

-are effective for different people. many found their numbers in

- Brockway has his seminar stu-

_ dents put their memories to the ‘to, the actual statistics.
test. For their first paper, Students

line with, or at least proportional

Brockway claims that mem-

verified their earli-. ory is not a passive receptacle
‘est memories. Responses were — _ but rather a generative process.
ee ting ome: Rather than absorbing informa-
eee eae | ag thought

3

bs

Sophomores Ellen Ott (second from left) and Molly Graver (4th from left) walked a sixty-mile trek from Statesville to Greensboro in order to raise money for and awareness of

Central America.

A pilgrimage for peace has begun |
Graver and Ott walk for awareness and funds

for Central America

By LISA GERRARD

Molly Graver taped a favorite quote to
her library carrel early this year. “Let us
take the risks of peace upon our lives,” it
says, “not impose the risks of war upon the
world.” Graver and her.roommate Ellen Ott
recently acted on these words, taking steps
toward peace in Central America.

The two ‘sophomores walked from:

Statesville to. Greensboro during Spring
Break as part of an organized “Pilgrimage
for Peace in Central America.” Goals for
the 60-mile trek were to raise awareness
about the plight of the Central American
people ‘and to collect funds for specific
relief efforts. At Davidson alone they were
able to raise $1100 of the group’s total
$5000--a substantial achievement given
the dollar’s value in Central America.
The money will go for hurricane victims
in Nicaragua, civil war damage in El Salva-
dor and regional agriculture reform. Five
thousand dollars buys a great deal more in
Central America than it would here, says
political science professor Brian Shaw,
who has visited region on several occa-
sions. “If you have people who have no.
money, any amount iti a long, mae
way.”
Geaver and Ott feel: that-U.S. aaeeen

hinder rather than help Central: America.
“Instead of sending contra aid and $1.5
million a day to support the government in
El Salvador, we could use the money to
better the plight of the poor. The more I
learn, the madder I get,” Graver said.

Graver and Ott learned about the role of
the United States in Central American af-
fairs as they listened to other walkers’ ex-
periences. Witness for Peace, Carolina
Interfaith Task Force (CITCA) and several
churches sponsored the walk. Several of
the Pilgrimage participants had been to
Central America and spoke of the villag-
ers’ suffering and courage:

Witness for Peace, an inter-denomina-
tional Christian organization, sends
American delegations to the area three

.. times a month. They talk ‘to people from
‘many different groups--government, the

U.S. embassy, workers’ movements, guer-
rillas, contras, families. Beth Craddock,
director of Davidson’s capital campaign;
recently spent two weeks in Nicaragua with
a group led by Witness for Peace.
Craddock met villagers with horrifying
stories of contra attacks in which babies
had been murdered and schools had been
burned. She also visited a government-
constructed barrio for people who had lost

their homes during the war. The temporary
houses were made primarily of scrap lum-
ber and had dirt floors. They had no win-
dows, electricity nor bathroom facilities.

‘Craddock said that Nicaragua spends
most of its budget on defense in response to
continuing attacks by the contras. Witness
for Peace maintains that the recent con-
gressional decision to.send $45. million in
humanitarian aid to the counter-revolu-
tionaries contradicts: the will of Central
American presidents.

“The Central American presidents want
the contras to be completely disbanned,”
said Graver, “but U.S. aid will enable them
to remain standing as an army.” It angers
Graver and Ott that the U.S. government
has portrayed a positive response to the aid.

They feel that organizations like Witness
for Peace and CITCA are important be-
cause they secure direct reports rather than
rely on hearsay. After volunteers visit the

countries, they return and report to legisla-

tors. “These people realize that they’re just
putting bandaids on the problem if they
stay there,” Ott remarked.

The journey’s long miles were-good for
“thinking out loud” with other walkers,
said Ott. Pilgrimage conversations inspired
her to a hope that policies can be changed

Photo courtesy of The Salisbury Post

and peace is possible in Central America.
The people working for change have “an
inner faith in what they're doing,”-she said;
they may become frustrated but they are
not discouraged.

“Americans go down to Central Amer-
ica expecting to find a land without hope,”
Graver said. “They find the opposite is
true.” In El Salvador, where entire villages
have been burned out, persevering hope
and valuable organization skills have
brought the peasants back to their land to
rebuild.

Graver says a sense of community helps
them survive. “Central Americans perhaps
understand the true meaning of the Chris-
tian’ faith. They base it on the community
and are concerned with worldly as well as
spiritual plight.” Graver shared with family
and friends in a recent letter, “I know that
spirituality cannot be complete when injus-
tice exists.”

As long as they have the capacity to work
for change, Graver and Ott say they will
feel responsible for people who suffer.
Echoing the words of Martin Luther King,
each believes that “injustice anywhere is a
threat to justice everywhere.” They have
begun a “pilgrimage for peace” to last a
lifetime. :

