12

Thursday, March 9, 1989 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beware of “Christians”’
but do not shut the door on faith

Joe Thomas

So why don’t we believe anymore? In regard to having a
faith in God through Jesus Christ, I would say the large
majority of Davidson students have struggled with this issue
on many fronts and are ina state of “uncommitedness.” This
is both understandable and in certain cases laudable, consid-
ering that the only exposure some people get to the message
of the gospel is a tract under the door with Satan holding a
visa card and an axe.

Yet many people here at Davidson have decided against
faith in Christ for other reasons. And I often wonder,
“Why?” In our own expcrience here at Davidson, the same
central inhibitions plague most people in their quest for
faith. I would like to verbalize them and offer to those who
struggling a viewpoint from within Christianity, which may
not clear up all of their doubts, but may assure them that it
is not a sin to doubt.

“Christianity is an intellectual farce. It is an emotional
crutch, which requires abandonment of all reasoning, and
it is historically unreliable.”

Sometimes we get the impression that students at
Davidson have been brainwashed with statistics that evi-
dence their intellectual superiority over the average popula-
tion. The very fact that we are intellectually blessed makes
us more able to examine Christianity on a fair basis. It is not
acrutch of a religion, but acomplex idea that offers a simple
solution. To those who require intellectual satisfaction, I
first warn you of this: it requires a commitment of time, and
if you cannot put this time in, you will not come away with
anything.

Second, once departed on this voyage, do not be surprised
or resentful of those who arrived at the destination without
the intellectual grappling you were forced to endure. Faith
is a mystery, sometimes it comes apart form knowledge,
sometimes only in its presence. Remember, you are search-
ing for the truth, there will be many roads which contain
partial truths, enticing but hollow. Start with one simple,
(yet controversial, I’m sure) prayer. “God, you who are the
one Creator of all, lead me to worship you in spirit and in
truth.”

Having said this, be ready, because if you meant it, He
will. Clean the slate of what you have preconceived in your
mind. But always keep your mind clear, and listen for the
unmistakable voice you will hear. It sounds weird, but it’s
true. Spend time at a church where you realize people

POINT—COUNTERPOINT, from page 11

student who never engages in sex, but just one time decides
to venture it might not be equipped with acondom. Another
student who lets alcohol cloud thinking and heads back toa
room for sex, might not have a condom. Someone who just
ran out of condoms and has not gotten to the drug store yet
might unexpectedly have a sexual encounter. Yet, all ittakes
is one mistake, one slip. of responsibility, one bit of ill
preparation to risk AIDS. The college can provide assis-
tance for these people as well as those that decide responsi-
bility to engage in safer sex. No one should have to pay for
a single case of bad judgement with his or her life.

The final argument Renner and Miller pose focuses on the
Christian grounding of this institution. They call for “moral
courage” in the administration to stick by its high ideals.
But, the sanctity of life is another Christian ideal. Condoms
can save lives. Teaching and helping, not judging and
condemning are also Christian ideals. As mentioned earlier,
S.H.O.C. will follow condom education with peer sexuality
education. These programs will promote discussion of and
dealing with the greater moral, ethical and emotional impli-
cations of sexuality. In denying someone that last minute
run to the bathroom for condoms, we might be sentencing
them to disease or death. True moral courage cannot be
found in denying a real problem. Rather, the institution’s

moral courage will come only in facing the reality of sex on _

campus and bipact with it, promoting responsibility and
maturity.

' ue

Kathryn E. Barnett is a senior philosophy major from
Bradenton, FL.

haven’t come due to social demand. Read widely. Begin
with the Gospel of John. Read Mere Christianity by C.S.
Lewis, and Evidence that Demands a Verdict by Josh
McDowell: Then read an opposing ideology, like The First
Coming by Thomas Sheehan and listen to the voice. You
will know. Remember also that you should be very wary of
those who tcll you that they are assured in their analysis of
Jesus Christ and the Gospels.

To every analysis of Christ which discredits His claims
about Deity and the establishment of a religion about Him,
there is an equally scholarly argument which could con-
vince you of the opposite viewpoint. The religion depart-
menthereat Davidson has been remiss in this aspect. Rarely
do they present the conservative viewpoint of Christ, indi-
rectly labeling it as unscholarly. Do not be deceived. Ask
such noted scholars as W.F. Albright of Johns Hopkins
University, or F.F. Bruce of the University of Manchester,
who have pioneered the fields of biblical exegesis as to the
authenticity of the Gospelsand the message of Christ’s deity
and claims on every man’s life, and you’ll be shocked. Get
another opinion.

“Christianity is only useless, archaic rules, a list of do’s
and don'ts, without any significance.”

Perhaps the most comic situation in all of humanity is this
extreme tendency for every man to feel as if somehow he
knows exactly what is best for him. We’ve all seen it in
action. In fact, it starts from the earliest childhood. Think of
the young child who insists that a diet Chef-Boy-Ardee and
Coca-Cola will, if followed rigorously, lead to a perfectly
healthy body. If you were to ask that child if he were sure of
this, he would undoubtedly give solid evidence for his
reasoning abilities. But he’s wrong, simply because there
are some things he couldn’t know about how his body
functions and he needs someone older and wiser to guide his
development.

Most of the seeming do’s and don’ts of Christianity can
be viewed ina similar light. Can we ever really know all the
ramifications of our actions, on the internal man and on how
he is being shaped? Perhaps, for an example, the reason God
asks us to reserve sex for marriage is because we are unable
as human beings to understand fully the myriad aspects of
such a simple, natural act. We couldn’t know, because as
thatchild, weare limited. So ina sense, we must “take God’s
word” for what we don’t understand. If we don’t, we will not
so often be punished as we will simply reap the conse-
quences of what we have chosen.

Imagine if the parents of this young child loved him so
little as to allow him his choice os diet, without instructing
him? One last point, after the child realizes the effects of a
“junky” diet through the direction of his parents, or perhaps
expcricnce, he will most likely choose the healthier route on
his own. Similarly, God will change our desires and appar-
ent needs so that obeying His guidelines does not seem like
a restraining chore but an obvious way of life. And in the
end, what is best for us, is what we desire in and of itself.
This in essence leads us to a larger idea, simply: God
Himself wishes our ultimate happiness (see John 10:10).
Perhaps we have all believed that it is God who wishes to
destroy our individuality and happiness. Nothing could be
further form the truth. Indeed, He is the only one who knows
each individual fully enough to know what will make him or
her happy.

“Is Christ the only way to God? What about,other
religions? What about those who haven’ t heard of Christ?
Could a loving God condemn to Hell?”

And for those who ultimately are dissuaded from belief in

‘Christ by this plaguing question of whether Christ be the

only. way, and could God really have a hell prepared for
those who don’t know Him, I offer you first, companion-
ship. These questions are very real and painful, and I feel
their weight, too. It is at this point that we must notrun from
them, but stand firm and face them.

I might offer you this thought: God spoke of Hell in
virtually every instance it’s mentioned in scripture as a state
of being where those who do not know Him will exist,
separated from Him. Imagine for a minute if you will,
existence apart from God. Remember, this same God is the
God who claims to be the ultimate source of all order,
goodness, light and love. An existence without order, good-

mess, light and love could be logically imagined to be

‘disorder, evil, darkness and hatred. In other words, Hell.
So is Christ the only way to be saved for this Hell? I
personally think that Christ is the God who said, “You must
know Me.” So doesn’t this make the question mute? Why go
through any other intermediary, when the source is avail-
able? For those who question because of the many who
haven’t even heard of Christ, or the widespread occurrence
of other religions, I point to this message in Paul’s book to
the Romans (2:13-16):
- “For it is not those who hear the law who are righteous in -
God’s sight, but it is those who obey the law who will be
declared righteous. (Indeed, when Gentiles do by nature
things required of the law for themselves, even though they
do not have the law, since they show that the requirements
of the law are written on their hearts, their consciences also
bearing witness, and their thoughts now accusing now de-
fending them.)”

So what is the requirement of the Law?

“Therefore no one will be declared righteous in His sight

by observing the law; rather, through the law; rather,
through the law we become conscious of sin” (Romans
3:20).
So perhaps, those who are conscious that they have sinned
before God and need redemption, will be able to be saved by
the atoning work that Christ did, despite the fact that they
weren’t aware of who their Saviour would be. (This sounds
far-fetched, but read the journals of missionaries like Hans
Olson, who found this to be true in remote African tribes.)
Remember, it is not unwise to admit what we cannot know.
We cannot know how God deals with all men, we must
examine how it is likely He will deal with us.

In physics, one of the most basic understandings one must
take into account before making any application is the
concept of reference frame. It would be foolish to make a
complicated analysis of the behavior of time in another
reference frame while standing in our own. One thing is for
sure, we should remain in our historical and cultural refer-
ence frame in our personal quest for faith, and most impor-
tantly, to place your faith in Christ does not require that you
believe everyone else in the world is going to Hell.

What is the issue here? Do we realize we have been
separated from God by sin, and do we realize something
must be done about it? For those of us who do know about
a salvation as simple and powerful and restoring as Christi-
anity, and then reject it, will we have an excuse before God?
Do not be duped a day longer into ignoring this issue in your
life, perhaps you think there is something more important?

Finally, I have a subtle warning to give you. Beware of
Christians. Oh, not of the kind who really act like Christ,
because they will be the kind you can count on to love you,

See FAITH, page 14

