cg eotay. November 8,.1989 THE DAVIDSON

Memorial service for John: Oo
| Reynolds, Me

The faimity. of John O. ‘Reynolds, ill, 99,
invite his friends to a brief memorial
| Baden sae raga an suovenier! 11 ih

Interested in spending the summer in
Washington, D.C.?

The political science department is offering two credits (an in-
ternship and a seminar) through the Davidson-in-Washington
Program Professor Tom Kazee will teach this year’s seminar deal-
ing with American politics. The eight week program will run from
early June to late July and will be open to 16 students.

A meeting forall interested students will be held Thursday, Nov.
16, at 7 p.m. in the Morrison Room of the Union. Pick up applica-
tions in Dr. Kazee’s office, Chambers 327.

a

Jw

Love of Learning
receives $15,000

Money will support math and science classes

By RAFAEL SANCHEZ-ABALLI
Davidson’s Love of Learning Pro-
gram, an innovative minority educa-
tion endeavor working in conjunc-
tion with the Charlotte-Meck-

~ lenburg school system, has received

a $15,000 award from the Merck
Company Foundation.

The award will be officially pre-
sented to the College on Friday, No-
vember 17 at 12:30 p.m. at the Afro-
American Cultural Center in Char-
lotte.

Davidson is one of ten private in-
stitutions receiving an award from
Merck for its “innovative programs
in undergraduate science educa-
tion.”

Love of Learning selects 30 “prom-
ising” eighth-grade students each
year whoare performing below their
potential and prepares them “for ad-
mission. to selective colleges.” The

x

primary goal of the program is to
inspire students to pursue Ph.D de-
grees in mathematics, humanities
and the sciences.

In addition to attending a month-
long summer session at Davidson,
studentsalso participate in academic
and social activities during the aca-
demic year.

The program has established a sys-
tem of support consisting of family,
friends and, most importantly,
Davidson students.

According to Brenda Tapia, Direc-
tor of Love of Learning, the award
“will be used to support the math
and science components of the pro-
gram.”

Stressing that there is a lack of mi-
norities with Ph.Ds participating in
these fields, Tapia wants to encour-
age students in the program to seek
the highest education possible.

S

Campus Reps
Needed

Earn big commissions and
free trips by selling
Nassau/ Paradise Island,
Cancun; Mexico, Jamaica: fi ef 2
Ski trips to Vermont &
Colorado.

For more information call

toll free 1-800-344-8360. _

20601 Torrence Chapel Road
South Lake Shopping Center

896-7611

Draft Beer « Michelob + Bud
Checks Accepted
Steaks and Hoagies

Open Daily
Monday-Saturday 11am - 9pm
Sunday 11am-9pm

» WE BAKE OUR OWN BREAD DAILY ON THE PREMISES

et raat
j AMERICAN SPECIAL; ITALIAN SPECIAL |
| Cheese, Roast Bool, Turkey, Ham. Letuce, | Pepperoni, Ham, Saiami, Cheese Genoa |

| Tomato, Onions, Olive Oil & Vinogar | pcan) yi aga |
Roll From Our Own Bakery ve
baba = On a9" Hoagie Ro!i From Our Own Bakery

xt scan only $4 99) {wt oc only $1 99)
[_Lmit 6 per coupon - | Limit 6 per coupon eI

— ee ee ee ee ee ee

INEW JERSEY SPECIAL| PHILLY SPECIAL :

‘| Choose StoakwithGriiedOnions,Lemce, Steak Cheese. Gr'ied Onions & Pizza Souce
! Tomato, Onions, Ove Oil & Vinogay | Ona" Hoage Roi! From Our Own Bakery \
Onu 9" Hoagie Rod From Our Own Bakery

|

| :
~nmacomonly $2.49 | va eceor ONLY $2.39 |
si Seah

— ee ee ee eee — eee ee

EVERYONE TALKS

cance CHANGING THE WORLD.

_ THIS YEAR
3750 PEOPLE WILL
ACTUALLY DO IT.

Not everyone is cut out to change the world. After all, it takes education, skills

_ and a spare two years.
Also a willingness to work. Hard.
This year 3,750 Americans will join the Peace Corps to do just that. They'll do
things like build roads, plant forests and crops, teach English, develop small businesses,
train community health workers, or even coach basketball. However, what they'll be
doing isn't half as important as the fact that they'll be changing a little piece of the
world. ..for the better.
And when they return, these 3,750 Americans will find that experience doing
hard work will have another benefit. It's exactly what their next employers are
looking for..
So, give the Peace Corps your next two years. And while you’ re out changing
the world, you'll also be making a place in it for yourself.

PEACE CORPS

You can't make the world a better place from behind a

desk! .
Sign up for an interview at the careers Office in the

College Union.

See the movie! Talk to a Peace Vet! Come to the Wilson
Room of the College Union on Tuesday, Nov. 14 from 11
am until noon.

