THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 , 1990

Sports

13

Football

»

\

SREP RE

A Wildcat o on ihe pi for awin

Le AS 25h :
Photo Courtesy DAVIDSONIAN Sports Staff

Cats Persecute Methodist

By BRUCE BALESTIER

- This one wasneverin doubt. The'red hot
Wildcats manhandled an inchoate Method-
ist squad in every facet of the game, and
recorded a 49-7 triumph before 2,048 de-
lighted Homecoming fans at Richardson
Field Saturday.

Davidson raced to a35-0 halftime cush-
ion, overpowering the Monarchs with 288
= of total offense, and spreading rad
—W in scoring. ar, bin-
we Ralph Isernia, Brett Boretti and Tey
Hines each scord one first half touchdown.
Meanwhile, Methodist could manage just
23 yards of offense against the punishing
Wildcatdefense. =
For the game, the ‘Cats average field

position was the Methodist 45, and they had
little trouble punching it into the end zone.
They mounted 258 yards rushing, led by
tailback Terry Hines. Hines collected 149
yards on 11 carries, and found the end zone
with scoring runs-of 61, 28 and 4 yards.
Through the air, Richard Howell and Mark
Wainwright threw for 117 yards anda touch-
down.

On defense, the ‘Cats thoroughly
pounded the Monarchs into submission, re-

covering afumbleand intercepting 5 passes.

Freshman linebacker Clay Hall led the way
with two of those interceptions; sophomore
Sohn Sims came up with a blocked punt.
The ‘Cats enjoy a well-deserved week
off and return to action Parent’s Weekend
(October 27) against Guilford.

‘Cats - Fall to ‘Dickinson.

By MATT JOHNES

Last Saturday in Dickinson, Pa., the °

Wildcats couldn’t get anything going on the
ground. Dickinson’s J.P. Bernatavitz had no
such problem. He gained 243 yards on 26

carries and scored two touchdowns to lead
his team to a 38-16 win. Davidson rushers _
- could only gain 34 yards on 27 attempts ~

against a tough Dickinson run defense.

~ The bright spot for Davidson was the-

play of freshman quarterback Richard

Howell, who threw for 250 yards and 2 ~

touchdowns. But by the time those touch-
downs camé, it was too late. Before the third
quarter was half over, Dickinson had a 35-0
lead.

The ‘Cats first got on ‘the board at the
2:36 mark of the 3rd quarter, when Howell

spearheaded a drive which ended in a 21
yard touchdown pass to Ralph Isernia. Iser-
niaran in the 2-point conversion to make the
game 35-8.

Dickinson added a 36 yard field goal in
the fourth quarter for their final points of the
day.

With less than 1 minute leftin the game,
Dickinson had a first and goal at the ‘Cats 2

yard line, but they fumbled.

_ Alden Smithpicked up the loose ball for

- a touchback, and Davidson set up at their

own 20 for one last drive. _
Long passes to Terry Hines and Jebo

Barnes brought the ‘Cats downfield to the -
Dickinson6, where Howell found DanLamar’

for a touchdown with just a few seconds left
to play. Howell ran in the. conversion to
make 7 Final score 38-16.

Men's Tennis

Off to Strong Fall Start

By ROBERT GRUBB

The men’s tennis team has carried last
spring’s success into their fall season. The
Wildcats have opened with three consecu-
tive dual match victories and a strong per-
formance at the Washington and Lee Invita-
tional over fall break.

Led by returning singles players Albie
Varosky and David Jespersen, the “Cats per-
formed well against a tough field that in-
cluded James Madison, one of the best teams
in the South. Both won their first round
matches before boeing out to James Madi-
son’s top two senior players, Stephen Sec-
ord and Marc Brix.

Coach Jeff Frank, while pleased with the
team’s performance in singles, was con-
cerned with its lackluster doubles play.
Davidson’s number one tandem of Kurtis
Zabell and John Beyer lost in the first round
of the first flight doubles to James Madi-
son’s Dave Swartzand Sean White. Varosky
and Dale Voeks, competing at third doubles,
managed to win their first round match
before stumbling to defeat at the hands of a
James Madison team. ;

The Wildcats opened their season Sep-
tember 28 with a home match against an
overmatched Wingate squad. Erank started
a lineup comprised solely of freshmen, and
the youths responded to the challenge with
an 11-1 triumph. Frank was especially
pleased with the play of Russell Briggs and
Ryan Harper, who played at numbers one
and three, respectively. “Eythan Sontag also
played a good match in both singles and

doubles,” commented Frank.

The entire team followed the lead of the
freshmen in their October 4 match at Radford.
Led by a veteran lineup in the first six
singles positions, the Wildcats defeated
Radford 15-1.Zabell recovered from ashaky
second set to pull out a 6-2, 2-6, 6-0 victory.

The team’s performance over fall break
endowed Frank with optimism. “Radford
finished third in the Big South last ycar, so
this is an indicator of how we might fare in
the conference,” said Frank.

Frank is using the fall scason to find solid
doubles pairings, and improved doubles play
is clearly a goal. “With all the freshmen, we
have more good doubles players than ever,
which is*good, but it makes it harder to find
the right combinations,” Frank remarked.

This fall has also marked the beginning
of anew workout regimen, which includes
weight training and running. “Coach is
working us harder than in the past, but it paid
off in the Washimgton and Lee Tourna-
ment,” said Beyer. “We didn’t lose any
matches duc to fatigue.”

The stronger, tougher Wildcats will hit
the road this weekend to challenge UNC-
Asheville and Western Carolina in dual
matches.

They will also battle the elements this
weekend; a lack of funds will force them to
camp out at Camp Carolina in order to save
funds. Explained Frank, “The home and
away conference series and the conference
tournamentare addcd expenscs to our budget,
which we don’thave the moncy to cover this
year.”

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Shows
Improvement, Resiliency

By WALTER WRAY

In heavy rain last Wednesday, the Wild-
cats suffered the most painful defeat of a
difficult season when they fell 3-0 to Pres-
byterian. It was a stunning defeat in light of

the fact that Davidson thumped Presbyte-_

rian 9-0 just last year. The team’s uninspired
play left coach Diane Boettcher angry.
But it was a study in contrast Sunday

when the ‘Cats rebounded to defeat Coker

College 2-1. The Wildcats dominated the
first 60 minutes of play, with Anne Wam-
pler and Liz McLaughlin consistently mov-

ing the ball into the Coker penalty area.

Liz Clarke and Sarah Taylor directed the
transitional offensives that resulted in goals
by Sarah Way and Ann Todd. Also provid-
ing power up front were Maria Tucker and
Lindsey Forsythe. The ‘Cats tired during
the final. 15 minutes. of the contest, but
managed to maintain their edge and posted
their second victory of the season.

The team returms to action Saturday at

10. am when they host the Commodores of
Vanderbilt as part of the Davidson Invita-
tional.

Bruce Balestier |On the Sports front

Five professional tennis players, Jay
Berger, Richey Reneberg, Darren Cahill,
Amos Mansdorf and Kevin Curren, were
recently banned from playing in the Stock-
holm Open tournament in Sweden because
they played competitively in South Africa
during the past year. In addition, the players

list of athletes who have competed there
since September 1, 1989, a blacklist en-
dorsed by the International Olympic Com-
mittee. In my opinion, this is yet another
instance of the improper intrusion of politics
into sports.

Tennis players are athletes, entertain-
ers, working men who make their living
playing tennis tournaments. If atournament
is to be staged, it ought to be.their right to
play in it, free from retribution, no matter
where it is. There ought not be a political

statement involved,
Why is it that when athletes and other

entertainers cnitcrtain people in the Soviet

Union, it is considered a humanitarian en-
deavor, but nota political endorsement? But
when tennis players compete in South Af-

_ Tica, exercising their given right to earn a
have been placed ona United Nations black-

living and entertain, they somehow wit-
tingly given support to the system of apart-
heid.

The point, it seems to me; is that the
system of government in the country where
asporting eventis being held ought not be an
issue. Politics is the domain of politicians.
Let tennis players play. where they want,
without the interference of the U.N. and the
1.0.C. Their interference here is a wrong
and ridiculous as the Olympic boycotts of
1980 and 1984. The Stockholm Open should
stick to putting on tennis tournaments.

