mei

umoring James

in the family room wouldn’t hear. He just smiled.

“Well, I thought I wanted to bleach my hair, but I reallydidn’t
know what I was doing. I just filled a sink up with water, poured
ina bunch of bleach, and stuck my head in. When I pulled my
head back out all my hair was still in the sink—-it fell out!”

“You wanted to bleach your hair?” I paused for a second.
“Jesus, man, I can’t believe you’re laughing about it. Now I
know why you stayed home from school today.” He explained
that he missed school not because of his lick of hair, but because
they didn’t get back until late that afternoon. “Oh, well,” I said,
“‘you’d better come on in and show my parents.” We turned and
walked past the stairs and through the swinging double doors
into the family room where my parents were watching “Jeop-
ardy!”. “Look what James has gone and done,” I announced.

My mom was able to hide her astonishment pretty well, but not

dad. He’d been lying all the way back in the Lay-Z-Boy recliner.
When James walked into theroom, he pulled the lever on the side
of the chair and sat up with a “doingggg!” Once upright, he just
kind of stared until mom said, “Pray, James, what possessed
you?”

“Well, I felt was in need ofachange. Baldness wasn’ treally
What I had in mind—I was trying to bleach it—but under the
circumstances, I think it’ll do nicely.”

“And how do you plan to wear it?”” My mother asked. Like
you could “wear a bald head the same way you wore a hairstyle.
“What I mean is, will you get a hat or anything?” She was just
making conversation to ease the tension my dad generated by
iS sitting there, staring. |

“Yeah, suppose I could get some hats. . . hey, come to think
of it, I could get some wigs, too! Y'know, this could bea lot of
fun; actually.”

: Then my father got up and went upstairs. Kind of anawkward

oment. My mom did her best to'smooth things out . “Well,”

e said as she stood up, “I guess we’ Il let you guys watch some
T.V. now. ‘Goodnight, James.” Then she followed my dad
“stairs.

*Y Ididn’t hang out with James at school as much a after that. I
ean, I really hated being seen with him—I’m sure you can
understand that. Especially when he wore one of his wigs. He
really did buy some wigs, you know. They were pretty funny,
I/must admit—most of them were made in the seventies and
some were obviously for women—butI justcouldn’treally hang
cat. with him when he was wearing them.
| Anyway, James’ hair had all grown back now. In fact it had
gone from being nonexistent to being pretty long. He had a
handful of really long strands n the front done up ina thin braid

that nearly reached the pages of my “Winged Words” magazine .

as he glanced through it.

Justthen my mom camedown from upstairs. She was wearing
one of her sweat sui i ine
pants. She wore nothing but sweat suits around the house since
my dad died. She had three or four different ones now. James
greeted her with, “Hey, excellent sweat suit!”

+“Oh, thank you, James. And I like your vest. You know, not
everyone can wear a vest like that.”

“Damn right,” I thought and chuckled to myself. His vest was
pretty loud. The from was made from a fuzzy sort of paisley
fabric that had a lot of pink and purple in it, among other colors.
He wore this over a finely woven black button down shirt with

¢ top button fastened, according to trendy European standards.

ther than that his outfit was pretty tame for James: tattered
jeans and a pair of those black work boots that the skinheads
always wear in magazine pictures.

“Oh, I’m glad you like it,” he said in response to mom’s
compliment. “I madeit just the other nightoutof this Te stuff
I found somewhere.”

“Well, it looks nice.”

that was mom’s problem. She really tried a little too hard to
benice to James, toaccepthim. Sometimes I think maybe that’s
why James it the way hi is. He know that people feel a litle
uncomfortable around him and then go out of their way to ac-
commodate him.. And maybe it’s because we’re next door
neighbors that she feels obligated to keep paying attention to
him, Idon’t know. ‘Butanyway, she was always doing stuff like
iting him over for dinner tonight.

Case in point: it was mom’s idea for me and James to double
date to the Senior prom. ‘She went with us to the mall when we
rented our tuxedos, too. She said she had some stuff to do out at

the mall, but I think she just wanted to be there when we picked
out our tuxes.

Of course James had to opt for something unusual. We walked
into the formal wear shop and—well, I think it was the first time
he’d-ever been to rent a tux, because when the lady asked him if
he was looking for anything in particular , he said, “Do you have
anything form the Victoria period?” Me and my mom caught
each others’ eye and smiled to ourselves. The lady said he’d have
to go to acostume shop for something like that, so he was forced
to settle for a regular tux. But he fixed that as soon as we got:
home. He took this big, velvet picture of Elvis’ head that he got
at some garage sale and sewed it on the back of his coat. Mom
thought that was pretty funny. In fact, she even made some joke
about us both going in matching “Elvis the Pelvis” tuxedos. I
should have take her up on it -- that would have surprised the hell
out of her. She positively couldn’t stand to see me go to the prom
wearing something like that.

The prom itself went pretty well—we had a great time. James’
girlfriend was surprisingly normal. Oratleast she acted that way.

“Hey James, are you still going out with that girl you took to
the prom?”

“Stace? No, we’re notreally happening anymore.” He glanced
down at the magazine in his hands, “I used her for a character in
my story, though, soit’s kind of a good thing we’re not still going
out. You should never write stories about people you have to talk
toevery day.”

“Oh James—your story.” My mom broke in, “I read it this
afternoon. It’s wonderful! And congratulations on winning the
contest. You should really be proud of that.”

“Well, I didn’t really win, I got second place.”

“Sure; you won second place...And I think that’s quite an ac-
complishment,”

There she went'again.. Somefimes I wondered if he know she
wasn’t being completely sincere with him. I doubt it. And it
could be sort of amusing to watch the two of them talk. “While
you tow are on the subject of great creative works, you should
take James up to see the painting.”

“Oh, of course. Would you like to see it, James?” They were
walking out of the room as she explained how she’d always
wanted to buy a painting. “But Carl was never very big on the
idea,” she said as they were climbing the stairs. “But then, after
he died, I thought maybe I should go ahead and get one. Soa few
weeks ago Marshall and I went . . .”

At that point they went into her bedroom and I couldn’t hear
them anymore, but she was telling him how we went to Charlotte

to buy the paining. There’sa painter near Charlottenamed Arthur .

Curtis who my mom had always liked. He’s pretty famous now
and a few galleries in Charlotte have a lot of his stuff. It's really
a bummer that she didn’t get one of his paintings a long time ago

till alive, because he wasn’t very well known then

Recess

A two beer lunch at a greasy spoon
and I amslightly drunk
Surprised as she climbs up
to perch on the barstool beside me
I smell the yellow playground dust
still hanging onherskin,she
Singing, clutching dollar bills, and I wondering
if the two loud’
Bastards at the end of the bar
always start drinking at noon
And where she got the money.

“\'ll be dead.” she said, and confused I look
not at her eyes

But hard at the red and blue barrettes

that hold her hair

As she says “I'll be dead and gone

before they bring

Gone before they bring my grilled cheese
samwich.”

and I notice

The barmaid looking close to see if I’m that kind
and what this little .

Black girl is doing in a bar.

“I’m already is dead, in second grade
dead is gone and dead.
They gon’ bring that samwich to my grave.”
and when it arrives
Iam drunk enough to be surprised
_as she looks up to me
slides off her seat
And wanders back to school
cheese already making
Little stains between the napkins
skipping “Dead and gone, dead and gone
Before they bring my samwich.”

—Peter Tavernise, ‘90

and we wouldn’t have had to pay near as much. But anyway, we
wentto Charlotte a few weeks ago and she picked one out and got
6 (ieee

I guess you would call it abstract. Imagine about five torn-
edged strips of construction paper, eacha different color of beige,
stacked on top of each other so that each one overlapped the one
is covered by about two inches. That’s whatitlooked like. Itwas
pretty big : about a foot and a half by two feet. Mom had it
hanging over he bed. Before we bought it 1 made the lady in the
gallery explain to me what it was all about. She told me when it
was pointed and by who and them described it using a lot of big
art terms—lI still remember a few of them.

Isaton thecouch fora few minutes till guess I got curious about
what they were talking about up there. I yelled, “Hey, exactly
what’s going onup there!?” but I wasn’tsure if they heard me. So
I got up, walked to the foot of the stairs, and started climbing the
carpeted steps. But when I got about halfway up, I heard their
voices from mom’s open room and stopped to listen.

“Yeah, I can see that, “James was saying. “Alsoin some ways
it reminds me of cloudbanks stretching out into a horizon. But if
it’s that, I wonder what the significance is of him using such
unhealthy looking colors?” The lady in-the gallery hadn’t
mentioned anything remotely close to that interpretation, sol was

a little surprised to hear mom’s excited response. “Oh, that’s
neat! I hadn’t thought about it that way. Perhaps with those
colors he wanted to emphasize just what a...

[laughed to myself and started up the second half of the stairs.
Mom was humoring James again.

—Randy Lewis, ‘91 }

