'10

THE DAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 , 1990

Rob Kelley | Inside Charlotte

Where Do They Come From?
A Look at Queens College

The looks on their faces said it all.

“You're going where?”

I knew the image well. The
Queenie: a large-haired socialite,
usually found stumbling around
outside court houses late on the
weekends, with eight or ten
Davidson guys drooling after her
because Davidson women are, as
one Davidsonian editor said,
“smart but homely.”

“It’s a quest,” I said. “The
Quest for Queens College. Think
about it. We always see these girls
around here. Where do they come
from? What hole in the ground do
they all call home? Well, I’m gonna
find it--and give directions.”

Located deep within Charlotte’s
affluent Myers Park district,
Queens College sits within a vir-
tual forest of oak trees. Clean brick
buildings with broad white trim sit
quictly beneath the foliage, and
thin strips of grass and sand snake
between foundations.

Walking around, I saw none of
the type of woman typically known
as a Queenie. What I saw were
men, surprising amounts of them,
each striding casually acrossa tiny
green courtyard to different desti-
nauions, wearing rough gray sweat-
shirts and carrying well-worn text-
books. Strangely, even of the
women walking around, | saw none
who fit the Queenie mold.

Qucens College went co-ed in
the fall of 1988. That year, they
had three transfers. Now, of 874
students in the School of Arts and
Sciences, 18 percent of them are
men. Morcover, this year’s incom-
ing class was 36 percentmale. The
old image of the Queens student--
the Qucenie--is no longer appli-
cable.

The presence of men_ has
changed the former girls’ school
drastically. Speaking of the change,
Senior Sharon Taylor, 21, said, “It
was hard at first. We’ve lostalotof
tradition. It’s hurt a lot of upper-
classmen who’ve seen _ the
changes.”

Another speaker said of the
new men, “They’re just regular
guys. They’ ve started a soccer team
this year [3-3 in their first season],
and they have their own fraternity
[Pi Kappa Psi].”

“You really don’t want to use
the word Queenie around them,”
she added.

With the new men arriving at
Queens, whatis Davidson’srole in
the Queens Students lives? “It’s
[Davidson’s role] achanging one,”
Taylor said. ““The underclassmen
don’t go up to Davidson as much
as the upperclassmen. The upper-
classmen still have friends up
there.”

Not female friends, however.
The attitude Davidson women have
toward Queens is well known. One
Queens student, requesting ano-
nymity, said, “They weren’t too
receptive.”

These changes have certainly
made Queens a different school.
But would Davidson students want
to visit there as much as a few of
them visit us? I’d have to say no.

Queens college has many
drawbacks. First, while the college
boasts over 874 students, approxi-
mately half of these commute. At
nights and weekends, the school
would be a much emptier place.
Secondly, Queens’ alcohol policy,
while not very different from
Davidson’s own, is actually en-
forced. People under 21 do not
drink. Not in the houses, not in the

dorms, notin theirrooms, nowhere.
Taylor described the situation: “My
friends had a birthday party for me
in my dorm when I turned 21, and
we got in trouble because some
people were drinking underage.”

While I don’t think this obstacle’

stops the men and women of
Queens from having a good time,
I’ve noticed that Davidson’s stu-
dents have a strong predisposition
toward alcohol. I doubt most of
them could have a good time with-
Out it.

Stull, Queens College is not
such a bad place (though a few of
their students do have a propensity
to come up, and a few of them
seem to enjoy “blowing chunks”
in our bushes). If you could get a
big group together, comprised of
both guys and girls, all equipped
with open minds and a good sense
of the ludicrous--well, then,
Davidson’s First Annual Roadtrip
Reggae Party at Queens? Pfeiffer?
Yale?

To get to Queens, travel I-77
south to Brookshire South. Take
the Highway 16 exit. Make a U-
turn a the bottom of the exit, bear
left at the next right, and continue
straight for about'two miles. The
road will change names from 3rd
street to Providence. You pass an
intersection with a huge granite
church on the far left, a small li-
brary on the right, and a forest
behind. Go. straight; you’re on
Queens Rd. The road will fork at
another church. Bear right, and the
entrance will be about three blocks
ahead on your right, between Rad-
cliffe Ave. and Wellesley. To get
out, retrace your steps carefully.
Some people may tell you just to
follow the road around. DO NOT
LISTEN. That way lies madness.

Get Evrae Involved!

Live, Learn And Intern

In Washington, D.C. This Summer

The Institute On Comparative Political And Economic Systems
The Institute On Political Journalism
The Bryce Harlow Institute On Business And Government Affairs

Georgetown University June 7-July 20, 1991

if are an undergaate student wit a rong interest in poll scence,
is ite international relations, journalism or business, you will want to apply to
one of these unique six-week Numerous scholarships are available,

While living on the campus of Georgetown University, you will:

* Attend two classes at Georgetown University. Taught by Georgetown
University faculty, students earn six credit hours for coursework

* Intern on Capitol Hill, government offices, private sector organizations,
news bureaus or press offices

* Attend weekly lectures with foreign policy experts, noted journalists, or
government affairs professionals

. * Meet and question national leaders at on-site brings atacames
Washington, D.C. locations

121/91 ee y/9h Regular Decision cae

For more information, contact The Fund for American Studies, 10
NW, Suite 401, Washington, D.C. 20036; (202)

How To Economically
Maximize A Study Break.

1. Take a friend and this ad. Go to
Norman Crossing Shopping Center at
Exit 28 off I-77. Very close by.

2. Order ard SUBWAY sandwich. You'll
get a free 16 oz. drink. Satisfy hunger. _
3. Take your receipt and your free play . -
coupon below next door to HOT SHOT... |
Relax and play a few games.

Offer good thru sages 31,1990

i Good for 1 free 16 oz.
Lidleo for 2 free plays 4 rink with purchase of

value 50¢ 4 any sandwich

Bee “ 892-7628 |
a oe ee eo oe ans

Filled bike racks, orange re-

foam. What does it all mean?
Davidson is finally moving from

‘active. Allaround us we see envi-

cycling bins, less and less styro-

envirorifental awareness to en-

aware, but also environmentally ©

By Sara Sadowski and Marey White

just Jock: at come tesa

-you. Everyone om neeeisrne :

the Adopt-A-Highway clean-up is
a hero. Fraternities have held par-
ties where aluminum cans were

vironmental action! The used instead of kegs to reduce the
| Davidson community. is -begin-_,usage_of. plastic_and- styrofoam —

ning to respond to an urgent call cups. The laundry servicehasalso _ the to
to be not only environmentally been active in recycling their coat _ ments,

“In the days ahead, Davidson 1
Environmental Action will be —
providing more opportunities for
the demas student to bea hero.

