THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 20 , 1990

SPORTS

11

Photo by Chris Lee

_ Fans hoot, dance, yell, and wave banners as the football team wins their second.

‘Men's Cross Country!Peter Hurtado
Runners Running Swift

The men’s cross country team posted
perhaps its best team effort in recent years
this Saturday when the squad placed second
out of six teams at the Carson-Newman In-
vitational in Jefferson City, TN.

Facing their first intercollegiate com-
petition, the Wildcats placed nine runners
in the top 17 places, including four within
the top ten. Second to Berea College, the
team buried Big South rival UNC-Asheville.
The Wildcats’ vast improvement from last
season was apparentas Davidson had its top
seven runners, including | hmen,
finishing faster than its top two runners fin-
ished last year.

This year’s young ice was paced by
junior Chris Otrok, who placed third over-
all and covered the 5 mile course ina
blazing 27:19. Sophomore Ian Stewart was
close behind at 27:39, placing sixth. Strong
performances by freshman Shelton Bellew,
junior Ted Richardson, and sophomore Dave

Kerns gave Davidson a strong top five,
which willbe necessary to compete success-
fully in the Big South. Freshmen Cam
Dauler and Richard Wharton rounded out
the top seven runners, finishing ahead of
Senior John Moss and sophomore Pete
Hurtado. Freshman Greg Fisher also ran
well for Davidson. Eight of ten Wildcat
harriers ran career personal-best times on
the day.

Coach Gary Andrew’s improved train-
ing methods have reaped huge rewards.
Freshmen Shelton Bellew, Cam Dauler, and
Richard Wharton came prepared to com-
pete, and have bolstered the top seven. Up-
perclassmen Otrok, Stewart, Richardson,
and Kerns have seen their hard summer
training pay dividends thus far. The return
of Hurtado from early injury and the contin-
ued improvement of Senior John Moss,
should make Davidson a contender in the
Big South Conference Meet in October.

Women's Cross-Country
Women Wildcats Score Big
In Impressive Victory

By PETER HURTADO

The Davidson Wontien’s Cross-country

team took a large step toward a Big South

Conference Championship Saturday when -

they ran away from the field to take first

place at the Carson-Newman Invitationalin -

Jefferson City, TN, their first intercollegiate
competition of the scason. While depth has

been lacking in past years, the 1990 squad

includes three freshmen, and had its top
seven runners finish faster than last year’s
top five. Davidson placed five runners in the
top eight, and all seven in the top fifteen
finishers. The ‘Cats finished 32 points ahead
of Big South member UNC-Asheville.
Junior Kathy Beach paced the field,

winning with a course record time of 19:53

for 5K. Not far behind was freshman upstart ”
Karen Marshall, finishingin second placeat —

20:18. This provides the “1-2 punch”
Davidson will need to win large meets.

But the real story is the depth of the
squad, Sophomore Heather Tank Siu :

man Jean DeMoss, and Senior Katie Rey-
nolds ran hard to place in the top ten, and

will be quite valucable against Big South
squads. Senior Laurie Reams and freshman"

Lisa Sitek rounded out a strong top seven
which will surely improve as the. season.
goes on.

The addition of strong freshmen and
the improved training techniques of Coach
Gary Andrew have provided Davidson with
the depth it’s been waiting for. Freshmen
Marshall, DeMoss, and Sitck have come in
with a good distance base, and returning
runners. Beach, Tarpley, Reynolds, and
Reams have shown improvement and lead-
ership. Frontrunner Kathy Beach and fresh-

man sensation Karen Marshall, withconsis- ©

tenttraining, should lead theirteam toahigh
place in the Big South standings. —

~ Next Weckend, the Lady Wildcatstravel -

to the Baptist College Invitational in Sum-
merville, SC, to take on conference rivals on
the course which will be the site of the

- conference peonsp meet.

oF

_JWRITE FOR SPORTS. The Gavieeanidh needs waters.
of every sex. Call BRUCE BALESTIER at x6217 or TOM):

KOONCEat x6213. Benjamin Franklin once said, ‘To

tite for Davidsonian Sports does a body good."

Women's Soccer

Women's Soccer Struggles

The women’s soccer team, still in its in-
fancy, is cutting its competitive teeth against
the best teams the South has to offer.

The Wildcats fell to 0-3-1 with their 6-
0 loss to Erskine last week, but coach Diane
Boettcher recognizes this period as one of
growth.

“T was proud of the way we continucd to
play aggressively on the offensive side of
the field," says Bocttcher, "rather than pack-

ing it in on the defensive end after their
initial scores. It would have been easy to
bring everyone back on defensc to keep the
score down."

She adds, "If we want to be able to
compete with the Erskincs of the world
we’re going to have to take our.lumps for a
while as we improve to thcir Icvel.”

The Wildcats journey to Virginia Tech
Saturday.

oN,

he

a

Photo by Beth Pharr

Lisa Lenard and Maria Rey look on with chagrin. The women Wildcats are
0-3-1. They play at Virginia Tech this weekend.

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-ABALLI

Plans for a club racquetball team have
been underway fora whilenow, spearheaded
by women’s tennis coach Caroline Brown-
Price. Saturday’s tournament at the Baker

Racquetball Saat Results

Sports Complex was another step in that di-
rection. The ficld of 15 was pared down to
semi-finalists Bob Price (Assistant Athletic
Director), Matt Dormer, Caroline Brown-
Price and Armando Sanchez. Sanchez de-
feated Mr. Price in the final..

- Hockey

Continued from Previous Page

The Cats’ domination came through in
the statistic department. Davidson pounded
Wake Forest for 39 shots on goal, while al-
lowing the Deacons only 12. Mistakes in the
penalty area were also detrimental to Wake

Forest; it allowed Davidson 14 corners hits

while taking only four.

Saturday’s game against Roanoke saw
total domination by Davidson over a less
experienced team which was playing its first
game.

The Wildcats‘amassed a 5-0 halftime

lead on goals by Jennifer Roos, Lauren

Follmer, Jacquelin Ukrop and two by Si-
mone Plaisance. Before 10 minutes were
gone inthe second half, Davidson had scored
twice more, this time on goals by Mary Russ
and Monique Dockter.- -

“We got almost everybody in the game,”
said coach Betsy Pryor.

Twenty-two out of 23 players saw action
in Saturday’s game, a very remarkable feat
since only eight in-game substitutions are
allowed. —

“We totally dominated,” Pryor added.
“We worked together well asa team and our
movementin the circle was great.” Roanoke
had zero-shots on goal, an overall credit to
the Wildcats.

After losing Wednesday’s game to Duke
3-0, Davidson Field Hockey will travel to
Boone Friday to meet Appalachian State.
Then to Radford, Virginia on Sunday to
play Radford University.

The Cats are at home next against Salem
on September 26.
