&

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 , 1990 Ca mM @ US Livi Nn g . 9

Davidson students check class schedules for drop-add.

Photo By Chris Lee

Joe Binns | Music Review
The Pixies: Bossonova

I was pushing 90 miles per hour the RosalCome on Pilgrim is as rough as they
entire way back from Charlotte. My fingers come, and on it the Pixies are in their ele-
were sticky, but my palms were sliding on ment. Bossanova was recorded in Dolby R
the wheel asI piloted along 77. I was sweat- (Roughness Reduction) and some of the
ing profusely, and my nervousness must _ things that gave them their identity are fil-
have been obvious to other motorists. [had _ teredout. Black Francis’s trademark scream-

managed; somehow; to keep the car on the-—ing-fits-are filtered_out-except_on “Rock ___

road, and I blew into Davidson consumed Music.” Kim Deal’s Primitivesque voice is
and disoriented by my curiosity. Although woefully under-used and the unique and
we had done this more times than there are mind-boggling guitar licks/style of Joey
love songs, it was always different, always Santiago-- the stuff which made Doolittle--
new. I tried to envision the scene that wasto _aren’t emphasized.
soon take place. What new twists would The first single released, “Velouria”, is
there be? I was ldsing it, soI did my best to the high point of the album and fits nicely
suppress the fantasizing and succeeded in against “Rock Music” for good second and
calming myself by remembering how “The third tracks. They follow an. instrumental
Pixies’” lastalbum sizzledlasttimeandhow opener called “Cecilia Ann” which really
it would surely sizzle today. gets them off on the wrong foot. Mike Grant
It didn’t. tells me it is a cover of some surf tune but it
When I had finished listening to the — sounds like a detective show theme (maybe
album, I sat back unsatisfied, letdown. Ihad “Hawaii 5-0” revisited). “Dig For Fire” is
let my roommates listen to it,andnow Iwas __ very sweetand much needed after tracks six,
the laughingstock of the apartment. James ‘“‘Ana” and seven, “All Over the World”.
managed to escape the hilarity just long The lyrics are characteristically simple and
enough to utter six words that sent me stag- _ structured and sung in a voice that sounds
gering to the bathroom pretending therewas. like David Byrne’s (only to me though).
something in my eye. “You paid 15 bucks. Admittedly, Doolittle is a hard act for any
for that!” I locked the door, sat down on the _ band to follow, but even the best tracks off
toilet and cried. Bossanova can’t stand up to “Debaser”,
WhowouldhavethoughtthatafterSurfer “Monkey Goneto Heaven” and “Hey”. Bos.
RosalCome on Pilgrim, and the brilliant | sanova would bean excellentalbum fora lot

Doolittle, that the Pixies would put out a__ of other bands, of other bands, but not this -

loser. Well, they did, and itis called Bossa- one. I hope we haven’t seen “The Pixies”
nova. It seems that the success of Doolittle
brought with it the cash needed to inadver-
tently over-produce this album. It’ is pol-

ished, but polished is not the Pixies. Surfer

- Continued on Page 12

_ Rob Kelley | A Guide To Charlotte

Is There Anything to do

Around Here?

The feelings won’t abate as you sit
with your friends on the Union Patio. It’s a
quiet night at Davidson, and the leaves
rustle darkly above your head, Maybe it’s
because you’re freshmen, and the Court is
still off-limits to you. Or maybe you’re up-
perclassmen, in search of anew type of fun.
Either way, you’ve come to realize that
Davidson College suddenly seems very,

| very small.

You look across at your friends, and
they look back at you. In each of your
minds, you wish for some little troll to pop
out of the ether, grunt two or three times in
your general direction, then gesture you and
your friends into a world of better things.

Uh, hi. My name’s Rob, andI’matroll.

Twenty miles south of our quiet little
campus lies the city of Charlotte. Charlotte
has recently come into its own as a major
center of commerce. Charlotte houses the

regional centers of several national banks;

as well as an IBM plant, American Ex-
press’s southeast headquarters, and recently,
a mildly professional basketball team.
With all these yuppy-ish changes came
a number of definitely unyuppy “counter-
perks”. For example, Charlotte now has its

own Shakespeare Company, and soon we
may host the state’s Dance Troupe. While
many Charlotteans take this news with a
shrug, a few of us frolic at the thought.

Charlotte has also developed a bona
fide nightlife. Dance clubs abound, as well
as annual Festivals in the Park (where a
number of nifty trinkets can be acquired),
and Springfest, a block party throughout all
of uptown.

Unfortunately however, Charlotte’s
city planners apparently did not expect such
rapid growth. Consequently, a map of the
Queen City much like a bowl of spaghetti
drenched in corn syrup.

That’s why I’m here. For the last ten
years, I’ve wallowed in this dark place,
trying desperately to figure out the spaghetti
soup that I live in. As the Charlotte Troll, -
I’ve had more than enough experience get-
ting lost in the city to keep you from doing
the same. From week to week I'll bring you
up to date on what’s going on down in the
big city, how it rates, and most importantly,
how to get there.

Next week: a glance into Charlotte’s
nightlife with a look at one of its best dance
clubs, the Pterodactyl..

Elvis Meets Warped
Wizard in Wild at Heart

By JOE MARIS

David Lynch’s “Wild at Heart” is not
a film for everyone. If you had to flip acoin
between seeing “Ghost Dad” or “Dark
Man”, “Wild at Heart” is not for you. If you
believe everyone in America watches “The
Wonder Years” and goes to church every
Sunday, “Wild at Heart” is not for you. If
you want to take a date toa movie, “Wild at
Heart” is definitely not for you.

“Wizard of Oz” and buffalo hunting can be
weaved into a plot of murder and over-
protective mothers, “Wild at Heart” is for
you.
Nicholas Cage portrays Sailor Ripley,
a quick-tempered, but likeable ‘“man-
slaughterer” in love with Lula Fortune.
Lula, played by Laura Dern of “Blue Vel-
vet” fame, is the life-source of the world’s
cliches. Lines such as “you’ve got me hot-
ter than Georgia asphalt” and “you mark
me the deepest” help accent Lula’s exis-
tence as acomplete bubblehead. Together,
Sailor and Lula travel down the yellow-
brick road towards what they hope will be
the Emerald City.
Marietta Fortune, played by Dern’s
real-life mother, Diane Ladd, plays the part
of an alcoholic mother bent on preventing

If-you-want-to-see-how-—Elvis, the —

her daughter from dating the likes of Sailor
Ripley. When a mild-mannered detective
fails to prevent the couple from staying
together, Marietta hires a hit man to elimi-
nate Sailor. From this beginning the plot
spirals into the dark recesses of Lynch’s
distorted America.

Sailor and Lula seem the odd couple
in the firstten minutes of the film, but as the
story progresses, they appear increasingly
normal relative to the supporting charac-
ters. In one of the funniest scenes of the
movie, Lula tells Sailor about her cousin, —
“Jingle” Dell, who believes that rainfall is
powered by aliens wearing black gloves.
Another character promises Lula that his .s
“dog barks some.” Almost every character
in “Wild at Heart” could be found on the
front page of a supermarket tabloid. While
some viewers may question the appearance
of some of these tabloid characters in the
film, this motley crew of supporting rolesis
necessary toestablish the underlying theme
of absurdity and deformity prevalent
throughout the film.

This film is not for everyone. If you
attempt to discover a deep underlying truth
in “Wild at Heart”, you will earn a well-
deserved headache. “Wild at Heart” simply
displays the film-making genius of one of
the rising international directors, David
Lynch.

