12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUS LIVING | THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25 , 1990

Ethical Issues in AIDS

By TOM MEW

On October 18, a discussion
was presented on the topic of Ethi-
cal Issues in AIDS Education.

The guest lecturer was Profes-
sor Bell, amember of the faculty at
the University of South Carolina
who has served on several state
and national panels on the subject
of AIDS education.

Noting that the current moral
climate is one of “distrust and in-
tolerance,” Professor Bell stressed
the importance of “democratic
education” over more compulsory
methods such as mandatory test-
ing and incarceration.

She also said that AIDS is a
particularly difficult discase todcal
with, because the issue of AIDS
education is also crowded with
moral questions and dilemmas.

Describing public response to
the disease as “haphazard,” Pro-
fessor Bell also noted that the na-
ture of the disease is changing.
AIDS has now evolved into a
“chronic disease.”

Also, new. studies show that
there is an increasing rate of infec-
tion among heterosexuals, particu-
larly women and the urban poor.

Bell stated that AIDS treat-
ment is particularly problematic
because people must make life-
time reforms, and the modes of
contraction include the addictive
habits of IV drug users.

Bell stated that “success is
achieved only if persons can.be
responsible for their own Icarm-
ing.”

She also said that AIDS educa-
tion was “an inappropriate plat-

Education

form for moralizing.”

She noted that education has
been effective in changing the
behavior of such high-risk groups
as IV drug users.

However, she added that there
has been relatively little change in
the attitudes of adolescents and
young adults.

In order to address this age
group, she called for more explicit
education.

Bell-concluded by stating that
the bottom line in AIDS education
is “the elimination of the disease.”

Summing up her idea of a
democratic approach to education,
she stated that the principle of
democratic education shouldn’t be
to force any particular social value,
but to prevent the spread of the
disease.

Id never have believed that one little computer could make

such an incredible difference in my academic and working life.

Miriam Stoll
B.A. History, Dartmouth College

M.B.A. Stanford Graduate School of Business

“IT became a Macintosh convert in business school.
: “At our computer lab I'd always find lines of people
ey. Wailing to use the Macintosh computers, while other com
puters just sat there. So I had a choice: wait for a Macintosh,
or come back at 6 A.M. to grab one before they'd all be taken.
“After business school, | took a job at a large bank and
used my Macintosh for producing everything from spreadsheets
to. a company newsletter.
“Today I use Macintosh to help me run my own
management consulting firm. When I give a pres-
entation, I can see in people's faces that
they're really impressed. And that makes
me feel great.
“Sometimes I take Friday off, put
my Macintosh and skis in the-car, and
head for the mountains. I ski days
~and work nights. It’s perfect.

“You know, I can't say where I'll

STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN

OXFORD

Several colleges of Oxford University have invited the Wash-
ington International Studies Council to recommend qualified
students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower
Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Stu-
dents-are directly enrolled.in their colleges and receive transcripts
from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a
U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required.

An alternative program which is sponsored by a U.S. Univer-
sity is available for students with minimum indexes of 2.7. Stu-
dents will have social and athletic rights in an Oxford college, and
the fees are substantially less.

Written evaluations are available from Oxford students who
have previously studied most subjects at most leading U.S. col-
leges. Telephone talks with students from your college (or in your
field) can usually be arranged by WISC. “

INTERN IN
WASHINGTON, LONDON

WISC offers summer internships with Congress, with the
White House, with the media and with think tanks. Govern-
ment and Journalism courses are taught by senior-level gov-
ernment officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced
journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy internships
are offered (with academic credit) in London (Fall, Spring and
Summer).

The Washington International Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E., Suite 450
Washington, D.C.-20002 (202) 547-3275

200 U.

EO/AA

by Mark Weitzman

be in five, ten, or fifteen years, but I
can say that my Macintosh will be
there with me”

For further information, visit the
Computer Services Center or
call Lydia Lorenzin at 892-2432

@

Why do people love Macintosh’?
Ask them.

gore you
Ussett... |
For more information about humane alternatives
to animal dissection in classrooms, 000 N CO)

«CALL TOLL-FREE
DISSECTION HOTLINE
1-800-922-FROG
A student outreach project of the Animal Legal Defense Fund

£ 1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo,
5 are ot Apple Ce

inc.
