THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 29, 1990

Sports

10

Basketball

Photo By Tim Dancy

J.D. Heuer crashes boards for a rebound in the annual Red-

Black game.

Fountain

Optical

Largest collection of
Classics and Traditionals
in the Charlotte area

Fountain Plaza, Hwy 73 W., Cornelius

HOURS: M,W,Th,I
Tues. 9-8; Sat. 9-Noon
Affiliated with Lake N

orman Eye Clinic

892-9117

COMPLETE ON-PREMISE

LABORATORY

‘r1 9-5:30 Edward R. Stukbauer,F.N.A.O.

Licensed Option
-Dr. Steven D. Friedman, O.D.

By BRUCE BALESTIER

The Wildcats came up with
another solid performance in Tues-
day night’s home opener against
William and Mary, but simply
turned the ball over too many times
(23) to expect to win the game.

On a couple of occasions,
Davidson threatened to put the
game away, but lackadaisical play
each time allowed the Tribe to stay
in the game. A late basket gave
William and Mary a 59-58 win.

The ‘Cats once again stormed
out of the gate quickly, led by
freshman forward James Marsh,
who exerted his dominance inside.
Juco transfer Jeff Chapin’s jumper
gave them a commanding 20-10
lead with 9:59 remaining in the
first half.

Buta 13-2 run, aided by some

sloppy play by the ‘Cats, brought °

the Tribe back, and Davidson

séttled for a 28-27 halftime edge.

Davidson’s fine offensive play
resumed at the commencement of
the second stanza. Two three-point
goals by Paul Denmond and four
straight points by Jason Zimmer-
man spurred the ‘Cats to a 46-40
lead, and it seemed they might put
the game out of reach. But the
Tribe crept back into the game, and
held a 57-S6.edge with 41 seconds
left.

When James Marsh made two
shots from the free throw line with
32 seconds left, though, it seemed
Davidson might capture the vic-
tory anyway. But William and
Mary’s Thomas Burroughs, who
finished with 28 points, had other
ideas. His running shot in the lane
with 17 seconds left gave W+M a
59-58 lead.

Coach McKillop elected notto
call timeout, and the ‘Cats ran the
offense. Detlef Musch got the ball

William and Mary Scalps Cats

in the low post, but was triple-
teamed; he found Jason Zimmer-
man for an open three-pointer.

Unfortunately, Zimmerman’s
shot glanced off the rim, and Darry
Strickland’s follow attemptscooted
long, and the Wildcats fell short.

The painful final result ob-
scured a fine defensive effort by
the ‘Cats, who hawked the ball
incéssantly, and helped out well.
The Tribe shot just 43.8 % for the
game.

Offensively, the team re-
sponded toevery William and Mary
challenge, and proved it can score
from the perimeter and off pene-
tration. Marsh, a starter at the for-
ward spot in McKillop’s three
guard alignment, led the way with
15 points, and pulled down 9
boards. The ‘Cats return to action
in search of their first win Saturday

. nightat7:30in Belk Arena against

Erskine. .

Cats Denied By Monmouth

By BRUCE BALESTIER

Saturday night’s consolation
matchup with Monmouth College
provided a startling contrast for
the Wildcats.

In polar opposition to the reck-
less playground style which CCSU
used, the Hawks played a disci-

_ plined, methodical game, taking

the “air out of the ball,” as Davidson
coach Bob McKillop put it. Mon-
mouth simply outlasted the tired
“Cats, scoring the final eight points
of the game toemerge with a 64-55
victory.

The contest was a close one .

throughout. Monmouth possessed:

small leads during most of the
opening half, moving to a 23-13
cushion with 6:14 left.

But Davidson responded to the”
challenge, receiving key baskets
from freshmen Jason Zimmerman
and James Marsh, and trailed just
31-25 at the half.

The second half was much the
same story. Paul Denmond was
not the force he was against Cen-
tral Connecticut, but freshmen
Scott Alford, James Marsh and
Jason, Zimmerman provided the

_scoring punch needed to keep the

game close.
Alford’s 19° foot jumper

brought the Wildcats within 1 at

56-55 with 2:21 remaining. Unfor-
tunately, that basket closed out the
Davidson scoring. Two Monmouth
possessions converted for baskets
and a pair of missed opportunities
on the Wildcats’ offensive end
decided the game’s outcome.
James Marsh and Jason Zim-
merman led the scoring with 11
points each, and. Scott Alford
pitched in with 10, but the ‘Cats
sorely missed the offensive pres-
ence of Denmond, who finished
with just 7 points. Nonetheless, it
was an encouraging effort by
Davidson against. a’ Monmouth
team that nearly made it to the
NCAA Tournament a year ago.

Marrow

Continued from Page 3

so incredible that I was unable to
eat for about a month-and-a-half.
These sores “leaked” and all the
excess phlegm would often gag
me. They installed a suction tube
by my bed so I could constantly
suck this leakage out.

For pain managemént, I was
taught self-hypnosis and began
receiving a constant flow of mor-
phine, which] became addicted to,
after getting twenty cc’s an hour,
24 hours a day. I also began to
experience minor infections, ac-
companied by high fevers, vomit-
ing, and diarrhea. I felt weak and
frustrated a lot of the time. Fortu-
nately, I was surrounded by the
support of my family and friends

tough times. Then after a couple of
weeks, my “counts” reappeared,
signifying the first sign of a suc-
cessful transplant.

As my body underwent an

inner tug-of-war trying naturally
to fight the “foreign” marrow of
Lee’s, I was in constant threat of
rejection or of a serious infection
such as graft vs. host disease in
which the body literally consumes
the new marrow. I often received
redcellsand platelets through trans-
fusions to maintain good blood
levels. One terrifying night, I had

However, I never once
abad reaction tosome blood prod- thrill from being allowed to walk son hotel where my family was doubted that I would pull through
uct, and basically “freaked” outas laps around the nurse’s station stayinguntillregainedmystrength. and I thank God for giving me the
my body signaled the adverse rec- while lugging my I.V. pole and — At one point, I had to re-enter the _ sheer will and attitude that guided
ognition through violentchillsand monitors behind me...talk about hospital due toa virus, which was mealong the way. Mysister Leeis
shaking. simple pleasures... My doctor another disheartening experience. truly, “the wind beneath my

Another time, I had a “drug explained that a transplant was When the glorious day arrived in wings.” Please consider the in-
trip” duetothe combination oftoo _equivalenttoanatomicbombbeing mid-April that I was finally al- credible giftthat I have been given
many drugs. I don’t recall this _ set off in my body, so he warned lowed to go home, I don’t think and hopefully you might be will-
episode,butmy motherassuresme that over the next few months my _ I've ever felt so aware of the ing to give that gift to someone
that fora fifteen-hour period was - body would be in constant limbo. magnificenceofmy giftofrestored _ else. I sure hope so... :
literally out of my mind. I made Being let out of isolation also _ life. " re
overtly “cheesy” remarks to the allowed me to become aware of The doctors tested my mar- * *
nurses and female doctors and those around me on the transplant +rowand found ittobehealthyand _ Editors’ Note: A fund has been
__basically had:a complete reversal __unit._I realized, by comparison, _ one-hundred percent Lee’s. The _ established. If youwishtosponsor—
of personality. In this drunken how fortunate I was. Some ofthe year-and-a-halfofmedicine upon a student or make a donation,
stupor, I even phoned my mom" patients werenotstrongenoughto medicine, doctot visit after doctor contact Beth Duttera, Service
threatening to, “callacabtogetthe _ live through the transplantexperi- visit were finally coming to the Coordinator, Davidson College:
hell out of here.” Finally, the next ence, others developed serious end.Iwasallowedtotryandbegin P.O.Box1719 (892-2460) in care

day, I snapped out of this weird

experience. Other unpleasantries
were in the high blood pressure I
developed and the insomnia that I
experienced.

Though, for awhile, my life
seemed to hang in the balance, I
gradually saw improvements. My
blood counts slowly climbed to
tolerable levels and I was “freed”
from isolation. I got the biggest

infections (one little boy, Tyler,

had to have a hole cut in his throat
tohelp him breathe) and still other’s
bodies never fully accepted the
transplant.
Fortunately, more people have
successful transplants than those
who don’t. It just is so heartbreak-
ing to see so many people in a
fierce struggle for their life. Fi-
nally, I was released to the Radis-

my life where I had left off the

previous year.

Obviously, words thrown on
paper cannot fully convey the
magnitude of a transplant, but I
hope I’ve given a basic impres-
sion. Throughout this whole time,
I had periods of fear and depres-
sion--I wondered why I was hav-
ing to endure this “living hell.”

of “Project:Life”
