4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 , 1990

Class of 1994

Continued from Page I

happening is the pool is shrinking. Applica-
tions are bouncing around, and people are
offering a lot more merit money; so it’s
much more difficult to predict what’s going
to happen.”

The overload may not be as bad as it
sounds in terms of admissions, since, ac-
cording to Gardner, Davidson is one of the
only colleges in the country that is oversub-
scribed without ever going into its wait list.

However, the effects of the big class are
felt in other areas of campus life. Many
freshman males are cramped in triples, and
many sophomores have been forced off
campus because of housing shortages.

According to Vice-President of Aca-
demic Affairs and Dean of the Faculty Robert
Williams, the problems of class overload
have not been as bad as was feared.

“We were aware of the problem last

spring,” said williams. “We watched pre-
registration and tried to estimate where extras
would be needed. Then we hired several
part-time people, and added several sec-
tions, especially in required courses.”

According to Gardner, Davidson has
plans to bring on-campus enrollment up to
1600 over the next few years. Considering
the current decline in applications, this may
be a bad time to try to expand, but admis-
sions is planning to put out a video and
increase its visitation areas in hope of in-
creasing applications.

“If we don’t expand our applicant pool
this year,” said Gardner, “then we aren’t
going to be able to expand enrollment, un-
less we want to give up selectivity. I don’t
know anybody here who'd say that going to
1600 is more important than the quality of
the kids.”

Housing

Continued from Page 1

all the transfers ended up off campus. Also,
every year we force some sophomores off
campus,” Terry said.

Terry says that the plan to increase en-
rollment to 1600 during this decade was not
the reason for the large freshman class.

“The overcrowding this fall was not part
of the planned increase. The admissions
office based predictions on previous years.
The number of men was much higher than
expected. There were 200 men last year, and
this year we were told to expect a max of
225. At one point, we got as high as 260.
There are 167 men in Belk, and 84 in Little,”
Terry said.

Terry believes that there will be prob-
lems with sophomore housing next year.

“With the size of the freshman class
what it is, and with no new buildings next
fall, it is very likely there will be sopho-
mores that will be forced off campus. Our
normal capacity is just over 1300 students.
There is no question we are going to have to
build,” Terry said.

Freshman Tom Mew believes that those
in triples should be given a better choice of
housing for next year.

“They ought to give us (those living in

triples) a higher number for all the trouble
we have gone through,” Mew said.

“We are somehow going to compensate
those in triples,” Terry said. “Right now, I
don’t think we are going to let them draw
junior numbers.

We have yet to decide.”

Josh Larned, another freshman inatriple,
believes that those living in triples should be
provided with space-saving provisions.

“T think they ought to provide us witha
working bunk bed. Also, material to build a
loft should be provided for those whochoose
to build,” Larned said.

Freshman. Morgan Farrell, who lives in
a converted lounge, says there are benefits
and problems with living in a makeshift
room.

“Tt is nice because it has carpet, but bad
because of the limited space. I really wish I
had a sink,” Farrell said.

Despite the unfortunate circumstances,
students have been very flexible.

Terry commented, “Students that have
been involved have been very understand-
ing, and we appreciate it. We still want to do
what we can to provide a good standard of
living.”

Write for the News
Staff.
Weekly Meetings held
_on Tuesdays at.
8:00 pm.
“Call Bailey at 6434

Stop and go traffic lights guzzle
gasoline. So, the Energy Division is
working with the N.C. Department
of Transportation to synchronize
traffic lights throughout the state. In
fact, since we joined forces in traffic
signal retiming; we've already saved
17 million gallons of gasoline. And

If youd like to learn more about
energy programs we offer, write or
call the Energy Division, 430 North
Salisbury Street, Raleigh, NC 27611,
919/733-2230. Because when it
comes to traffic lights, like so many
things in life, timing is everything,

that's just one of the dozens of ways Pe, ee ors 2
we're working today to help prepare 7 es Set a
for the energy needs of the future. re ahd Commun Ceasteonme

Thought for the
____ Week:

Wherever you
80,

under your
clothes
you're naked.

o

