Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SGA presidential and VP candidates
make their appeals to voters

Candidates for SGA President

Clay Adams

There comesa timeinevery student's
life when he or she looks around, thinks
of their interests, abilities, and past
experiences, and decides tocashin their
chips. I’m a junior, have been on the
CCRL fortwo years, servedas fraternity
tush co-chairman and worked at the
library and the Commons.

This year, I have concentrated on
being a hall-counselor and an English
major, but in past years I have dipped
my fingers into everything from The
Davidsonian to the Center for Special
Studies. Consequently, I know people

allover the college and community who
can serve as valuable resources.

Endeavoring to become president of
the Student Government Association is
one of the mostexciting goals that have
ever set.

The issues of student solidarity and
quality of student life are the most
important areas that student govern-
ment deals with. No matter how many
committees the SGA creates, though,
these concerns must also be the vital
interests of the student body.

Make yourself heard. Do what you
want to do. Make Davidson a place
where you learn what matters to you.
The election is Tuesday, Feb. 20. —

Cecily Craighill

As a candidate for SGA President, I
would like to ask you to take the time to
consider what you are looking for from
your Student Government Association
in the year to come. One of the things
that frustrates me most, yet excites me
most about this campus is the latent
power of the student voice. In an SGA-
sponsored Semester Forum a few
weeks ago, Dr. Holland talked about
the persuasive power of students, par-
ticularly here on the Davidson campus.
Not only ‘did he reinforce a though |
have held for several years now, but he
alsomade more aware of the potentially
tremendous resource I could call on
during my year in office.

The power of students has always
been a force to contend with, especially
recently as we have seen with the mas-
sive uprisings and changes in China
and Eastern Europe. They achieved
wonders in a repressive, totalitarian
situation—think of what we can do
with the freedom we control. My pur-
pose in running for president is not to
pad my resume or impress my friends,
but to become an active believe I can

represent every student equally and.

fairly, and I hope that you will trust me
to do that.

My parents and both sets of grand-
parents were missionaries and teachers
in China and Taiwan. I lived in Taiwan
ona semhy campus for six years. Serv-
ice, duty and hard work have always
been stressed in my family, and I have
also been given the opportunity to see

how the internal political working of a
school administration operate. I have
been on the Senate for a year and a half
as the Rusk House senator. I ama Resi-
dent Advisor, and have devoted much
time to the Student Health Options and
Concerns Committee as its SGA liaison.

Issues are a must in any campaign,
and I am no different in feeling that
there are certain situations on this cam-
pus that need immediate attention.
Foremost is the need for increased and
improved security and safety meas-
ures. Living down the hill two years in
a row, I know what it’s like to walk
home from. the library in the dark. The
unavailability of the police officers dis-
turbs me, andthe fact that no one has
been hurt yet is no excuse for compla-
cency.

The semester system is also some-
thing that has priority on my list, and I
look forward to student input on that
subject. Athletics is a perennial issue,
and once the Baker Sports Complex is
fully operating, one of great impor-
tance. As always, student needs and
concerns are primary, particularly in
the case of minority and international
students. .

Davidson is growing and changing at
a breath-taking rate. The sports com-
plex, the new art building, and the
Campaign for Davidson will all help

push Davidson College into the fore- |

front of American education. We need
to consider not only our immediate
needs, but those of the future. I feel that
I have the energy, experience and en-
thusiasm to help guide Davidson to that
future.

Brian Healy

As a candidate for SGA President
there are two issues I want to get across
and make progress on while in office.
Davidson College has no policy on date
rape and there has been a lot of racism

lately. I want to bring about more unity
between blacks, whites and interna-
tionals.

In the past three years I have been
involved in fraternity activities, and I
am presently a member of the Date

Rape Committee and the Women’s

Concerns Committee.

va

; Doug Jobe

As a candidate for SGA President, I,
Doug Jobe, would like to express my
feelings on what SGA and I can do for
you. This past year, I have served as a
SGA house representative and also
served as the SGA representative to the
faculty committee on Education Policy.

From this experience, I fully under-

stand the high demandsof this position -
and its large role for our school. Al-.
though the student body is divided by

houses, classes and majors, the one
place that we can all come together is in
the SGA. Thus, if the students were to
unite behind the SGA then we can be a
force to be reckoned with.

What I would like to dois tomake the

SGA a respected force on campus
meaning that it is taken seriously by
students, faculty,and administration so
that all its views and suggestions can be
exercised.

To incorporate the student body’s
best interests, I want to fully utilize the
resources that the SGA and students
possess. In doing such, I wish toinspire
and initiate the power in each and ev-
eryone of you toserve our purposes ina

positive way.

These are key issues I would like to
address: add to and update present
lighting, create viable escort service,
reevaluate semester system--13 1/2 to
14 weeks or more holidays, opposing
present proposal of minus grades,
implement unified grading scale, exam
schedule--keep length or increase read-
ing days, more emphasis on commu-
nity involvement of students and SGA.

Cordell Jones

I do not have as much experience as
many of my fellow candidates, but it is
with a great deal of excitement and
determination that I offer you my candi-
dacy for President of SGA. I do not plan
to propose any radical changes with the
SGA, but my goal is to see more acces-
sible SGA meetings and members. This

will create a more unified student body
and enable the concerns of each student
to be considered.

As the only class of ’92 candidate, I
will not be bogged down with the im-
portant decisions facing all graduates.
Thus, I will have more time and energy
to devote towards SGA. Come support
a candidate who will be here for two
more years to see the changes we as a
student body will make. Vote Feb. 20th!

-Kim Short

I want to take this opportunity to tell
you about myself and some of my ideas
for the SGA. I have been involved in
many activities on the Davidson cam-
pus and in the community. I give cam-
pus tours, am a member of the Rusk
Service Committee and the Library fac-
ulty committee, and have helped organ-
ize Parents Weekend and. SGA Week-
end. This year! was selected tobe on the
Student Campaign Committee, which
was formed to help organize events for
donors visiting the campus. This posi-
tion has enabled me to work with
members of all areas of the Davidson
administration and to keep abreast of
future plans for Davidson, such as the
new Union and the Visual Arts Build-
ing. In the community, I adopted a
grandmother through the YSSC and
thisismy second yearasaninstructorin

the Community Youth Arts Program.

One of my main concerns about
Davidson is the lack of communication
between the faculty, administration,
athletic department, campus organiza-
tions and the student body. By address-
ing this problem, students could be
more informed and have more influ-
ence in campus decisions. I would to
like to develop a system to allow stu-
dents to voice their concerns, which
would include a form for students to
notify the SGA of their suggestions and
regular Senate forums for students to
respond to the SGA’s actions on issues.
A means of alerting the different facets
of the campus of SGA decisions and
events must ‘also be implemented.
Other issues I see facing Davidson are
security, African-American concerns
and women’s concerns.

Thanks for taking the time toread this
article and I hope that you will also take
the time to vote on next Tuesday.

Candidates for Vice President

Jason Brannon

George Bush did nothing; lil’ Danny
Quayle does nothing (Thank God!!!);
come to think of it, most vice presidents
do just that--nothing (with the excep-
tion of the almighty and oh-so-honor-
able Tim “Sparky” Sparks, that is). Has
it become an accepted rule that a vice
president's duties consist solely of kiss-
ing babies, throwing out the opening
pitch at Orioles games, carrying around
the President's luggage, and weaseling
your way out of reporters questions
while the Supreme Executive is having
some deformity removed from his
body? If these are the requirements,
then hell—I, Jason Brannon, am your
man! I kiss each of my thirteen children

nightly, throwa befuddling 100-milean

hour change-up that would fool even
Oriole’s catcher Mickey Tettleton, pull
around and steer those suitcases with
the little wheels on the bottom like no
one ever has, and can b.s. with the best
of them. As you can see, I can also lie
like a politician. As the Vice President
of the Davidson College Student Gov-

ernment Association I surely would not ..

have to accept such incredible responsi-
bilities as my counterpart in the Federal
Government does; I do promise, how-
ever, that I would attack the duties
which do come with the job with the
vigor and commitment which so cru-
cial, yetsooften neglected in this impor-
tant position.

As a second-generation Davidson
student, I have heard the praises com-
monly sung by dedicated alumni. On
the most part, I wholeheartedly agree
with them. Davidson is a wonderful
place with the potential to be even
greater, and it is the tapping of this
potential which I feel should be the
focus of any on-campus organization,
particularly the student government. A
unified, involved student body is a
necessity. The Davidson student body
isa highly intelligent, creative, diverse,
and outgoing bunch of young adults,
who, if joined together, can accomplish
anything they desire. Together, we can
make Davidson and even more ideal
place to work, play, and live our lives.
And unlike the Sports Complex or the

See MORE VP HOPEFULS, page 4

