2

- Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

It’s not too late to divest, outside pressure
must continue, says activist Niko Smith

By JAY CHAUDHURI

The following interview was conducted
with South African anti-apartheid activist
Niko Smith. Smithaddressed the campus on
several occasions this week. Here is what he
has tosay about thechanges in South Africa.

The Davidsonian: Can you tell usa little
bit about your experience living in a
black township. What was the reaction
by fellow Afrikaaners?

Smith: Well, if you know the South
African city, the different population
groups are completely separated. So,
when we decided to go, (break in the
tape...) it’s the people, I can answer seri-
ously. It’s their deliberance to learn and

to know their way of life, their own

circumstances and how they experience

South Africa. So from the sight of my

own...feeling strongly the resistance

there. Rejection. My family was saying I

was irresponsibleand that I should take

my family into consideration. My life

could be in danger. But on the other

side, when we got into the black town-

ship we were just welcomed by the

inhabitants of the township and they

showed a really big warm friendship.
The hospitality ... to us...in the commu-
nity. So I tried to communicate to my
own people and say the deliberance of
black people is just like living in any
other place. It’s just that they have a
much more closer relationship. And the
people are getting much more inter-
ested in one another than the white
community. But it is certainly difficult
for them to think that it is possible be-
cause of the cultural differences. Espe-
cially the old folks in South Africa.

The Davidsonian: 1 guess with. the
winds of change in South Africa now,
many western governments are re-
evaluating their sanctions policies. For
example, Margaret Thatcher has now
decided to stop sanctions against South
Africa. Should the U.S. government
discontinue sanctions toward South
Africa in light of current reforms, or
should they continue these policies?

Smith: No, Icannotsay thatthey should
discontinue, no. Because if the western
countries are now going to slacken
down their policies on sanctions, the
South African government will use that
to delay the negotiations as long as
possible. Because they know what it
meansif they start to negotiate. Eventu-
ally, they will get to the point where
they will be forced to allow a general
election in the country in which blacks
will also participate. Or they will work
out their own long scheme and try to
delay as long as possible. So, the sanc-
tion play must now be kept on, until the
South African government has been
willing to go to the administration table
and they have worked out what will be
the future... And only then we would
say, and they can start saying that, they
can take away sanctions. If you begin to
doitnow, thatis just going toencourage
the white government in South African
to delay the whole process of negotia-
tions.

The Davidsonian: The reforms that
have been taken by the Hungarian and
the _ African’National Congress ...and
the release of Nelson Mandela, are in-
deed, historical in South Africa’s his-

tory. With these new changes is there
now a Climate conducive to negotia-
tions between the white minority gov-
ernment and the Black...

Smith: Well, atleast thereis... butasI’ve
said, those are in the... They never pre-
pared the white population to tell them
look, we are a minority group, and
eventually we will have to allow the
black people power. So when all of a
sudden, they unbanned black political
politics and released the political pris-
oners, it was a severe shock to the
whites. And that is why you now have
a very strong _ black..(.national side
against the white conservatives) Which
is what I believe will continue, and will
keep growing because the whites are
not going to accept it. That negotiations
will take place, and that the government
will eventually be taken over by the
blacks. They will resist it as long as they
can. So, as I understand the situation at
the moment, the possibility fora bloody
eruption is greater than before. Because
now you have the high expectations on
one side, from the black population,
and you have the fear .. And that can
really cause an enormous eruption.

The Davidsonian: Dr. Willie Ester-
huyse, a professor of political philoso-
phy at the University of Stellenbosch,
and an advisor to the government of
South Africa, stated in an Africa report,
that “The release of Nelson Mandela is
really not the issue. The real issue is the
role of Nelson Mandela.” Could you
comment on what you envision or per-
ceive Nelson Mandela’s role to be now
that he’s released?

Smith: It strikes meas not trying toplay
dumb. To release Mandela is of course,
of great historical significance. Itisa sig-
nificant thing. The fact that the govern-
ment was willing to release him after
being in jail for 27 years. Now the ques-
tion is what line will he take. I don’t
think he’s going to another line other
than the “line he has taken when he was
sentenced 27 years ago. He will con-
tinue to struggle for equal political
rights for the black population. He has
already said that in that struggle there
might even be violence. (He wants vio-
lence . Africa’s violent. There might
even be violence.)... (But in spite of that,
equal rights are more important.) I
think they have done something great
to release him. I think they are soon
going to discover that what he is going
say will mean much more than words.

The Davidsonian: In your class, you
referred to the momentous reforms of
De Klerk as being the beginning of the
Black liberation struggle. How long do
you foresee the struggle continuing and
what will De Klerk’s strategy be?

Smith: De Klerk is speaking of the five
years plan... I believe this year is really
going to be of great importance in the
development of the political process.
What! see De Klerk doing, is that he will
try to build up an alliance with the
addition of black leadersin that country
the so called (Omrac) leaders...He will
also try and mobilize some other black
leadersin local councilsand build upan
alliance with theminorder toneutralize
the overwhelming influence of the
A.N.C. atthe moment. So! think that he

will play forasmuch timeas possible, to

see if he can really get that alliance
going.

The Davidsonian: You hinted at the fact
that perhaps there will be violence, or
an outbreak in South Africa. Do you
foresee bloodshed and violence during
the transfer of power?

still continue to do that. As I have ex-
plained, the release of Mr. Mandela, the
unbanning of the political parties, all
those things were not the liberation of
South Africa. It’s only the beginning of
the struggle for liberation. And if the
pressures from outside are not going to
be continued, then the white govern-

Niko Smith, one of the founders of Koinonia, an anti-apartheid organization, ad-

dressed several audiences this past week. Freeing Mandela is not indicative of future

accommodations by the A frikaaner government, he said.

Smith: During a period of 40 years, the
government has implemented this pol-
icy of apartheid, withso much violence.
They have used so much violence to
implement this policy, that the South
African society is really filled with vio-
lence. There are so many tensions be-
tween groups of people. I can just see
that we are now in a situation where
there will be an interplay of violence.
That is what politics is all about. It isan
interplay of violence. Thatinterplay ina
climate where there is so much violence
can easily provoke the outbreak of vio-
lence. So can’t see how they are going
to be able to prevent that. If they are
going to use the army again to try and
control the people, it can really be a
bloodshed.

The Davidsonian: Davidson College
has not yet divested its funds from
companies dealing business in South
Africa. An editorial appeared in our
paper last week by analumnae from the
class of ‘68 who established Davidson
Alumnae Against Apartheid. In part of
his article he wrote “Davidson College
as an institution cannot claim to have
been partof the pressure today in South
Africa. Itis not toolate for the trustees to
act.” Is it too late for Davidson College
to divest its funds?

Smith: No, I would say not. They can

Photo by Ed Matthews

ment will not be in the least, in a hurry
to try and gototheadministration table.
SoI would say, as far as the Trustees are
concerned, that they must continue the
commitment, in order to let the South
African government know that they
want the government to make a state-
ment on their intention. When are they

going to negotiate, and what will be the
. Process of negotiation, and how are

they going to arrange it.

Smith: What is the position at the
moment with Davidson’s Trustees?
How does it work?

The Davidsonian: Currently, they ad-
here to the Sullivan Principle. They do
not support the apartheid system in
South Africa, but a lot of companies
they are dealing with are. They see it as
wrong, but yet, they do not wish to

divest.

