Wednesday, February 28, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

1990-91 SGA Prez stresses security, unity

Jobe provides his preview for next year’s Senate

By JENNIFER SIECK

Doug Jobe, newly elected president of
the SGA, is ready to work for and with
Davidson—the college and the commu-
nity. In an interview with The
Davidsonian, he shared some of his
plans for his year in office.

“One of the things I want todois build
more unity on campus to increase our
outlook and make ourselves feel better,
Our school is more unified than most,
but it can be even stronger. And

through our being more unified I think
we can increase our general morale on
campus,” said Jobe. “I feel that we study
in a great environment with this com-
munity [the town of Davidson] and I
feel that we should try to give some-
thing back. I think we need to give
something back and show our appre-
ciation for the environment we have.”
Jobe includes more group social
events with Patterson Court housesand
establishing a spirit contest at basket-

ball games among organizations in his
plans for campus interaction. Speaking
about the relationship of the college to
the town, Jobe said, “I want more inter-
action between the SGA and the com-
munity. Another thing I’m looking into
along with the Union, is establishing a
student-run carnival for the children of
the community in which students, fac-
ulty, administration, SGA, the Union
and Patterson Court could all come
together and show our appreciation
and all have fun in the process.”

What experiences motivated Jobe to
seek the SGA presidency? “I’m the type
of person who likes doing things for
other people,” said Jobe. “Because Ilove
this school so much, I wanted to give
something back toit. When I came in, it
was fantastic. I want to make it even
better so others can cherishitas muchas
I do in future years.”

This. past year Jobe has served as a
SGA house representative and asaSGA
representative to the faculty committee

). on Education Policy. He is also a hall

houses, classes, na ors, we can Lau eam things for ourselves, allina positive

Photo oy Bonita Paysour

counselor.

“After watching Tripp Helms this
year inSGA, I realized whata phenome-
nal job he had done. I felt like I knew
what needed to be done to do a job as
well as Tripp, if his could even be
matched. From that experience I feel
well-endowed to be able to give the
student body a president thatis capable
of representing them really well and
helping to bring out their best inter-

ests.”

Jobe believes that students can and
need to play a significantrole in student
vernment. “Students need to realize
that SGA can be a force for them. If we

can all come together through SGA,
" since we are all broken up in eating
_ houses, classes, majors, we can accom-
plish things for ourselves, all in a posi-

tive manner,” Jobe stressed.

“I would like to encourage all the
students to getinvolved and feel like the
SGA is a form of expression for them
and touseit to the best of their ability by
contacting me, their own representa-

_ tives, or Kristi [Kessler] about points

they feel need to be discussed. More
importantly, SGA meetings are open

and I more than encourage people to
come to just sitin and hear what's going
ononcampusortoexpressa viewpoint.
I want as much open communication
and student involvement as possible.
That’s how we accomplish better
things.”

Jobe hopes he and the SGA can “ac-
complish better things” in the next year
by tackling campus issues such as di-
vestment from South Africa, the revi-
sionofthesemester system and campus
security. On divestment and security,
Jobe stated, “I would feel that most of
the campus is for Davidson College to
divest, and personally I would feel that
it is a tragedy that we haven't divested
yet. Basically, from what I understand
from the Trustee’s meeting, the Trus-
tees are discussing some action and
they fully understand the disgruntled
nature of mostof the students about our
investments as a college into South
Africa. I see it developing into a large

issue On campus. The SGA will seri-

ously consider the issue, and although
it’s a big issue, I’m confident that action
will be taken.”

Jobe also stressed the need toincrease
and improve campus security: “I’m
confident that the lighting will be up-
dated and security will be greatly im-
proved over the next year. Great strides
have already been made this year. My
main focus is to instate a viable escort
service on campus such that the availa-
bility is there at any time and such that
students don’t have to worry about
their own security late at night when
they cross campus. The escort service
must be viable such that everyone on
campus knows that it works and that
it’s for their own good. By increasing
security, we can make ourselves feel
more secure, make ourselves feel better
and feel better about the school, thus,
increasing our general outlook on stu-
dent life.”

In conclusion, Jobe wished to add his
appreciation to the student body for
“giving me this opportunity by this
show of confidence in me. I’m very
honored and hope to give everything
possible to serve the best interests of the

student body.”

