THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6,

1990

Sports

13

"New" Cats Start New Season

Coach Breathes
Life Into 'Cats

By BRUCE BALESTIER

“Davidson is my school,” said Dave
Fagg, and if anyone is entitled to make that
claim it is Dave Fagg. He was a football
player and wrestler as a student, an assistant
football coach under Homer Smith and, from
1970 to 1974, the head football coach at
Davidson. Since then he’s had a coaching
career with stops at South Carolina, Hawaii
and Arizona. Now he is back at Davidson as
head football coach and associate director of
the Wildcat Club. Here he: saw the
opportunity “to do something more than just
figure out how to win football games, maybe
to help a football program that’s...
discouraged and down.”

Fagg’s first challenge was to attempt to
add depth to the Wildcats’ player rankd, still
thin from the sudden move to Division III
two years ago. He wasequal to that challenge,
bringing in.35 freshmen, several of whom
will have immediate impact. Tackle Jack
Berry, QB Richard Howell, K-P Drew
Fassett, LB. Chad Blackwelder, LB Bill
Evans and FS Thad Smith all will vie for
starting jobs.

As for returning players, the vital cog is
senior tri-captain Ralph Isernia, who may
see action at FB, TB, slotback, punt and
kickoff returner and in the defensive
secondary. Safety Milt Watson and guard
Chris Woods are the other captains.
Freshman Richard Howell and senior Mark
Wainwright have split time at quarterback.
Terry Hines and Bryn Robinson have shared

Continued on Page 15

+

: gh ae Fe ka Ye Vii 2 Pinan
Photo courtesy of Davidsonian Photography Staff

Intent on the game, Bryn Robinson carries the Wildcat Spirit _

Cats Fall in Fagg
Debut

By BRUCE BALESTIER

A new era in Davidson football began
last Saturday when the Wildcats met the
University of the South, and that new era got
offto an inauspicious start. Sewanee, though
notaclearly better football team, played like
one en route to a 17-9 victory.

South struck first midway through the
first quarter with an 81 yard touchdown
drive. Meanwhile, the Wildcat offense had
great difficulty getting untracked, failing to
gain a first down until the first quarter was
nearly over. A golden opportunity came in
the second quarter, though, with a Ist and
goal situation from the Sewanee 3 yard line.
But four tries couldn’t produce a score, and
the Wildcats emerged’ with nothing.
Fortunately, the defense came to the rescue.
With Sewanee backed against their own
goal line, pressure from Steve Veitch forced
the quarterback to intentionally ground the
ball in the end zone for a safety, and brought
the ‘Cats within 7-2. Terry Hines returned
the ensuing free kick 39 yards.to the South
30, and nine plays later, freshman Richard
Howell finished the drive with a 5 yard
touchdown pass to Kearns Davis. Davidson’ s
9-7 lead stood until halftime:

Unfortunately, the Wildcats would not
score again. The opportunity was present,
but Davidson failed to capitalize on a 2nd
and goal situation from the South 1 yard
line. On the other side of the ball, the
Davidson run defense was ineffective. RB
Carl Cravens of Sewanee ran roughshod

Continued on Page 15

Field Hockey:

By LARRY DAGENHART |

The Best Ever

knee surgury last year. Fiero made the All-

Woman's Cross-Country

Wes
Davidson field hockey coach Betsy Pryor —

could be experiencing what could be called
the coaches dream. Out of the all the players

on the team, 14 of them could potentially

start the 11 positions. The 1990 version of
the hockey team is stocked with 23 players,
which includes ten freshmen and is one of
the deepest the Wildcats have seen ina long
while. 5
Coach Pryor definitely likes what she
sees. “They’re better athletes and they’re
taking itmore seriously,” she said comparing
the new winning attitude to past years.
The co-captains, seniors Marjorie

Havighurst and Gigi Cooke, both starters ©

for three consecutive years, should lead the
Cats to an improvement over last years 11-
6-2 record. Cooke, the leading scorer, has
been ,selected to the All-Deep South
Tournament team three years in a row and

made the first team the last two years.

Havighurst, the only other senior on the
team, is also a two-time All Deep South
selection and made the first team last year.

_ The junior class temains chock full of
talent. Mary Russ, Beth Pharr, both two-
time All-Deep South recipients, are joined
by Franceseca Fierro who has apparently
recovered 100 percent from her injury and

Deep South first team her freshman year.

Top returning sophomores include
Simone Plaisance, Jennifer Plowright and
Jennifer Roos, another first team All-Deep
South selection.

As faras freshmen go, the topnewcomers
include Erin Lang from Kennent Square,
PA, Suzanne Hardesty from Louisville, KY
‘and Emily Coleman, a goalkeeper from
Durham who should battle sophomore
Courtney Townes for the starting job.
The season ata glance is very tough and

' is possibly the most difficult in the Deep

South Association according tocoach Pryor.
This year as in past ones, Davidson plays
Wake Forest, Duke, a team composed of
many. scholarship athletes, an Excellent
Catawba team and Appalachian State. New
contests this year include Radford and
Division I Louisville. _.

Despite a tougher schedule, the hockey
team has continued to improve. Coach
Pryoradded that Davidson has the “potential

~ to be in the finals of the Deep -
- South Tournament” come November. .

The Wildcats open their season this
Thursday away at Catawba and open: at
home Friday, September 14 against the
ACC’s Wake Forest.

Preview

By Davidsonian Sports Staff

Junior co-captain Kathy Beach began
last year with a flourish, winning the Panther
Creek Cross-Country Invitational, and

finished it in similar fashion, setting school -

records on the track in the 1,500 m, 3,000 m
and 5,000 m. This year, she should have
company at the front. Women’s cross-
country’s first grant landed abona fide blue-
chip recruit, Karen Marshall of Houston,
Texas. Marshall finished third in the Texas
5A State Championship a year ago, and
coach Gary. Andrew “expect[s] her to be
right up there with Kathy.”

A front-running 1-2 punch should be a
team trademark,. along with consistent
running from seniors Laurie Reams and co-
captain Katie Reynolds. But the success of
the team, especially in the Big South
Conference pend upon the
ee Ce me

performance of freshmen Jean DeMoss and
Lisa Sitek.

As was the case with the men’s team, the
Open/Alumni Invitational proved to be a
valuable indicator of the strength of the
squad. As expected, Kathy Beach won the
race, with Karen Marshall second. More
importantly, though, six runners finished
this year’s race in the time that just three
runner’s finished a year ago. Andrew feels
that the women are “much deeper” and
“vastly improved over last year.”

Coastal Carolina will provide the most
competition for the young Wildcats and are
favored to win the conference crown. But —
clearly, if things go well, Davidson will bea
threat to take the title. .

In addition, both Beach and Marshall
could forseeably challenge for the individual
conference title. The season kicks off Sept.
15 at the Carson-Newman Invitational.

