walk her to her room ‘call the chaplain - :
“who understands such things. She talks to me_

Lines s Comma While Sitting. in My .
Office, After Having Read Many Poen
by My Fellow North Carolinians -

They know the damp rcs smell of earthin old
abandoned houses, the darkness of closed rooms,
flash of fish tail in frozen mountain streams,

lit of blacktooth smiles in Appalachia.

They know the sudden lift of heron, crook-legged
before dusk and the way boys skip smooth stones
in still ponds. They know the lidless eyes

of snakes seen face to face across thin streams.

They know how dogs, tunneling for hermit crabs, ee enc
throw storms of sand into the startled air. ; j
They know the skin of grandmothers, brittle.

like ancient maps hidden in attic trunks.

| know only the faces of the young and the dark -

stare in their lowered eyes when they have ceased —

to hope. | remember now how once in composition class

| sat easily on the desk, walking my words © ie i

like the afternoon dog: Now kicaeo eer

and legs of a gir’s voice tangledinto the feet Mee ea
of mine. Telling the garbled beads of her desperate Paes Se he
faith, she spoke to me in tongues. Glossolalia, ay Mane

the word sipping from the lips lke the sound
itself, her strangled cry for help from: her unknown ara ON.
God. Black girl, one of ten-amongfourhundred,
tumbled into this spider world, begging forhelp. ms

pressed into faith by a.crippled man cruising

the freshman halls for converts, ben Sibel
round the pimpled and main ed. the different”
and the ugly. promising etemal life in worlds

to come as recompense: for scars in this one.

My class sits stunned and silent. The gin’s |
words slow. God, she says in English, has given.
her permission to speak “In all your Classes?”

lask. *No,” she says, “Justin this one.” aan
| had Mv hse ee Soho a
Now |.am face to face. | dismiss the class

of her faith with bits of tongue dispersed
between the lines. She wiligo home tomorow
ioaabalalle chia co Dosis ce ee

Pronunciation

Green shell encasing pink flesh, wet
massaging my dry throat to ripeness

Oh how we miss when we call you plainly
“watermelon” - as if you were common, —
as if water could compete

with honey-dew or musk.

No, squishing you between cheek

and fellow-pink gums

spitting your seeds across porches

into hair, blouses, shorts

I want to call you more,

to say your name as only in the South:
“whatamelon” - like a portable pool,

a dessert, a blessing.

Robert McKay, ‘90

