Wednesday February 7, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Beyond Davidson

al

Mandela may be freed, says South Africa's
de Klerk; 100,000 demonstrate in U.S.S.R.

_ By CAROL GATEWOOD
and
CAROLINE WILSON

BULGARIA: In hopes of strengthening
its position before free electionsin May,
the ruling Communist Party of Bulgaria
met last weekend and chose a new
leader. In an unanimous vote Andrei
Lukanov was elected to serve until the
May elections. Lukanov is a former
minister of trade, and his election along
with a “new program of change” sig-
nals an attempt by the Communists to
maintain a gradual program of reform
that willallow criticism and adjustment
without violence and revolution.

USSR: On Sunday 100,000 demonstra-
tors marched through the streets in
front on the Kremlin carrying banners
and demanded that the Communist
government “surrender its monopoly
of power.” In what was the largest
unofficial demonstration in 60 years,

the ralliers continued the cries for
democratic institutional reforms that
have sweptacross Warsaw Pact nations
in recent months. The rally came on the
day before a critical meeting of the
Central Committee where Gorbachev
proposed that the party relinquish its
total control over the electoral system
and recognize private property. As
events have unraveled rapidly in East-
ern Europe, Gorbachev now has to ac-
commodate the sense of revolution and
frustration in his own people. Accord-
ing to The New York Times, if Gorbachev
succeeds with his proposals, he “will
then be ready to begin his ultimate es-
cape: jumping free of his place atop the
Communist Party before that institu-
tion falls of its own dying weight.” At
the same time he wants to maintain le-
gitimate role as. the president of the
Soviet Union and increase “an elected
legislature as a stable power center.’ In
essence Gorbachev is having to

f—

a

strengthen governmental institutions
that will withstand decreased Commu-
nist party power.

If Gorbachev does not succeed in
doing this, the increased instability that
would occur could drive hard-liners to
assert themselves and clamp down on
the reforms that have already occurred.

SOUTH AFRICA: President F.W. de
Klerk last week continued to loosen
some of South Africa’s strict apartheid -
policies. These included legalizing the
African National Congress, placing a
moratorium on executions and easing
restrictions on individuals and groups
involved in the anti-apartheid move-
ment. In the midst of these concessions,
expectations have grown that Nelson
Mandela, the imprisoned leader of the
ANC, will finally be released. The poli-
cies changesare important because they
fulfill some of the ANC’s major political
demands for a significant role in the

»1IONG ago
away, Ame

delive

South African government. Mandela
insists that he will not leave jail until the
country’s state of emergency is lifted.
He has other demands.

EASTERN EUROPE: On Sunday the
leaders of East Germany, Czechoslova-
kia, Bulgaria, Hungary and Poland met
in Switzerland to debate about the fu-
ture of Europe. The debate was organ-
ized by the World Economic Forum and
centered on the democratic reforms
taking place, the presence of Soviet
troops, and “the problem of ethnic
minorities.”

Also discussed were issues revolving
around the German reunification ques-
tion including that all countries in Eu-
rope should have an inputinto the steps
toward German reunification, and that
a single Germany will upset the balance
of power in Europe. German reunifica-
tion will continue to be an issue in Eu-

rope.

ina galaxy not
srica’s Number
ry company

ents an offer

Honor Code and orl Shee
Code of Responsibility Violations _ ee
January — December 1989 ee oo

iS SOWe sy to play. Call your
arest ‘Bomings Pizza store
for ae tails

our gre
rFaAaS than «
i} win

»Up olgel—ia— more
Ompeting groups
a free pizza party'

Honor Code Violations — Total cases: 9
6 cases handled by Honor Council
— one case received censure, restitution and letter of apology
-four cases received two-term suspensions and censure
—one case received one-term suspension and censure

Domino's
Pizza
_Delive

FSaaca

3 cases handled by-Dean.of Students.. eee
~two cases received by two-term suspensions
—one case received indefinite suspension

Code of Responsibility ores

2 cases handled by Honor Council-verdicts were not guilt

—one case, Sections III, IV, V, IX— the sanction was two-term
_suspension, restitution, counseling, censure *

—two cases, sanctions were censure, social probation, letter of

apology
: ) " The The Fast, Free
Dean of Students — Total cases: 12 Contest: Rules: Delivery”
-Six cases involving Section IV — sanctions were community Obs Hida wil award. wee:
service and restitution and in one case an additional ria 30 Heat pions and 896-8007
sanction of alcohol probation* 0.00 pean Our drivers carry less
-Three cases involved Section VII - sanction was a fing Sotenesiiy tee oat ahaa ba ey
—One case involving Section V involved censure, apology, and __ Starting Jan. 15 and
alcohol counseling =~ fey Ral. Alam
—One case, Section VI, involved censure, restitution, fine,
community service Some dorms may be-

ivided or combined at th
-One case involving Section V involved drug counseling, decreten of Dominos :

restitution, and community service Pizza to make the contest

4 : ; as equal as possible. Call
896-8007 for details.

*These cases were handled by the Dean of Students in conjunction with
the student advisory committee which meets each week to advise the

Dean of the sanction to be imposed. This practice was — in August,
1989.

&

