10
Lucia lets loose

Wednesday, January 31, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

When is it all right to be wronged?

Lucia Kendall

eLet’s say you know a guy who occasionally will
buy dinner for some of his close friends, or even give
them cash if they’re broke. You know him fairly well,
and one day you decide to ask him if he'll give you
twenty bucks. He refuses. Is stealing the twenty dol-
lars from him wrong?

Let’s say you're a beggar on the streets of Char-
lotte. When a businessman sees you there he pulls a
ten-dollar bill out of his pocket and starts to hand it to
you, then reconsiders, puts the money back in his
pocket and walks away. Isit wrong for you torun after
him and grab the money out of his pocket?

*Let’s say you’re at a party standing next to a guy
who has had a few too many beers. You see his wallet
in his back pocket and figure he’s too drunk to keep
you from stealingjt. Would stealing it be wrong?

I am suggesting these scenarios to illustrate that
forcibly taking something from a person who doesn’t
want to give it to you is wrong.

Recently, the topic of rape has cropped up in many
conversations around campus. In listening to the
opinions of various students (maleand female), I have
found that everyone is strongly against the kind of
rapein whicha stranger leaps out of a darkalley, beats
up his victim, and rapes her at gunpoint. Many stu-
dents, however, are unwilling to consider as rape any
instance in which someone is forced to submit to
sexual intercourse without her consent. Often they

attribute the problem to the woman rationalizing
some morning-after guilt, or they blame her for bring-
ing it on herself.

I brought up the three theft scenarios to show how
similar they are to the following arguments that rape
is excusable under certain circumstances:

If, for example, the woman has “a reputation,”
many people argue that if she’s a slut, then having sex
one more time isn’t going to make any difference. (I
have heard this argument applied to students from
Queens College).

If the woman is dressed provocatively or flirting,
many people argue that “she was advertising for sex”
or that “she was asking for it.”

If the womgn has had too much to drink many
people argue thatit’s her own fault for not being more
careful.

But these theft comparisons demonstrate that in

situations in which the crime is stealing instead of
Tape, anyone with even a speck of moral judgment
will blame the criminal, not the victim.

It horrifies me to realize what double standards our
society has: we will not tolerate a person who takes
someone’s money against his will, and yet we make
excuses for someone who takes something that is tre-
mendously personal and important. Sex isn’t like
money: it has incredibly deep connections with the
way a person feels about herself or himself. When a
woman’s body is violated, her soul is violated too.

Although you can quickly earn enough money to
replace cash that was stolen from you, a rape victim
must cope for the rest of her life with extremely
powerful feelings of guilt, fear, shame, anger, power-
lessness, chronic depression, low self-worth and innu-

merable other problems. All these problemsare inten-
sified when people she knows are not giving her
emotional support, but instead telling her that the
man who wronged her doesn’t have to accept full
responsibility for his actions.

I do not mean to suggest that all rapes, or even all
acquaintance rapes, are committed under the circum-
stances I have described. Many instances can be much
more easily identified as rape. Because of space con-
straints, this article has not dealt atall with many of the
most important aspects of rape. For example, I have
not even discussed how essential it is to realize that
rape has to do not only with sexuality but with vio-
lence and power. I do not include these ideas not
because I think that they are less crucial, but because
this aspect of the issue happened to catch my atten-
tion. (Incidentally, I have chosen all my past topics

‘based on what caught my attention, not on what I

perceived tobe humanity’s top ten most earth-shatter-
ing crises).

I would encourage anyone who is interested in
dealing more extensively with rape awareness, with
methods of dealing with rapists and rape victims, and
with examining the attitudes that can lead to rape, to
do so. The Davidson Rape Awareness Committee
includes both men and women, and welcomes stu-
dents, faculty, staff, community members and anyone
else who would like to do something about this con-
cern. Contact Peter Tavernise for more information.
In addition, the Women’s Concerns Committee
organizes campus programs on this issue and many
others that relate to women. For more information,
contact Ruth Pittard, the program coordinator for the
Union.

A nnouneing |

ie Agpplications
gon “Due

Wie February 21%,

= Make
2) “y Creat

eo Friends a

Z

Interviews
Fe ee" 2 Mar. am

ot

8 — tesidenr Advi gor Apprieations
Applications Are Available NbwW For PResicenr
Advi sar “Fasi 2ions. Apply

cP vu Develop “Real
s World

Ts Be An PRA:

— And Get
Paid
ey For Lt os

Any Oyesdions c
(all “Ria ha td Tecry |

