CheD

soisontan

SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXII

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1990

NUMBER9

PiKA "Poisoning"
Due To Stomach Virus

By JENNY SCARBOROUGH

After dining on shrimp creole
on Monday, November 5, 17
members of PiKA were admitted

_tothe infirmary that Tuesday night
because of nausea, cramping, and
diarrhea. The Mecklenburg County
Health Department’s analysis of
the food determined that cause of
to be a stomach virus, which was
apparently spread by a person with
the virus handling the meal.

According to Derrick Willard,
PiKA president, some students who
are not members of PiKA have
visited the infirmary with similar
symptoms. “It was strange that so
many guys gotitatthe same time,”
said Willard, “That made us sus-
pect food poisoning, iid it
wasn’t,”

About 24 hours after the meal,
the effects of the virus were felt.
People began filling the infirmary.
One freshman who dined at PiKA

was also affected. Dot Fleming, .

who is the infirmary supervisor,

administered nausea shots and
ginger ale to prevent dehydration.
The symptoms lasted for about 24
hours, but most felt weak for sev-
eral days afterward. Said Fleming,
“They were uncomfortable, but
they all got along fine. It wasn’t a
life-threatening situation.” In all,
about thirty people were checked
asa precaution. Two members who
were unable to stop vomiting drove
themselves to the hospital in Char-
lotte.

On Wednesday PiK A decided
to close their kitchen and eat at the
Commons until the cause of the
illness was determined. Each fra-
ternity and eating house operates
its own kitchen; they are entirely

- separate from the college’s dining

service. Willard expressed PiKA’s

- thanks to the Commons for their

cooperation.

“Everyone’ seating atthe house
now and everything’s back to nor-
mal,” said Willard.

Casolo’s Speech
Stirred By Debate

By SARAH SADOWSK

El Salvador is a small Central
American country currently being
torn apart by civil war.On Sunday
night, Davidson got a small but
significant taste of the Salvadoran
conflict amidst a room full of ten-
sion, animosity, love and solidar-
ity.

Jennifer Casolo,an American-
raised, Brandeis-educated woman
who worked in El Salvador for
four-and-a-half years shared some

guerrillas, the FMLN, in the back
yard of her home in El Salvador,
was arrested by the Salvadoran
government.

She has since been ordered by
the Salvadoran government to
leave the country, although she
still claims innocence of all
charges. Casolo came to Davidson
to speak about her experiences,
including those of her work with
the Salvadoran people, her arrest
and her imprisonment. She was

of her perspectives and experiences
last Sunday at 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room. Casolo, who was accused
of allegedly hiding arms for the

met by both admiration-and-ani-—

mosity.

Continued on Page 2

Thieves on Davidson,
"It's Easy Pickin's”

~ GARY WHEELER

-The Davidson College Police
Department’s high visibility this
year has resulted in greater recov-
ery rates of stolen property. Crime
on campus, however, is not de-
creasing.

Ray Thrower, Chief of Police,
says that Davidson students’ hab-
its of leaving dorm rooms and

bicycles unlocked has given the

collegeareputation for being “easy
Pickin’s.” Of the 128 cases of

there was only one case where the

. victim had locked his or her door.
“Crime in Mecklenburg is
increasing,” Thrower said, “and

Davidson is not isolated from this
crime.” Thrower encourages

Davidson students, faculty, and

November 29.

Onset

Student Government Association Phonathon Begins

Junior Jeff Fraley pleads with an affluent alumni to give our school a few measly
bucks. The SGA Phonathon began this Monday and continues until pemara

Photo By Chris Lee

Bone Marrow Transplant
Aids Student In Fight For Life

By DAVID LINDSAY

[Editors’ Note: This is the first

" of two articles on the transplont of

bone marrow]

Why me? This question is
‘often asked in the face of life’s
adversity. Life can seem unfair in
-SO Many ways--innocent people

are killed by drunk drivers, an—

unlucky bystander gets shot bya
stray bullet, a woman is brutally
raped, young children suffer from
deadly diseases, and the list goes

n...I have discovered that when
life issues forth a difficult chal-
lenge, the best course to take is to
meetthat challenge head-on and at

fullspeed. As Theodore Roosevelt .
-_once said,“‘Don’tfoyl,don’tflinch- _

-hit the line hard.”

This spring, a group of stu-
dents (myself included) will be
having a campus-wide “Bone
Marrow Registry Drive.” During
the weeks up until that point, this
committee will educate the cam-
pus community (through articles
in the Davidsonian and speeches
around campus) and try to encour-
age enthusiastic participation
among the students, whom we feel
confident will recognize the im-
portance of this worthwhile cause.

can become the “model” for other
academic institutions to follow. In

_ this article, as well as in a future

article, I will be telling my story
with the hope that it will encourage
many of you that read it to want to
be registered as potential donors.

Part One: Why?

My senior year of high school
was rolling along quite smoothly
at good ‘ol West Charlotte that
winter of 1988. I had somehow
finally finished my “early deci-
sion” application to Davidson. I
was already mired in the dreaded
“senior slump.” I was enjoying my
last year of school with the typical
zest and excitement that anyone

-would have.

I was anxiously looking for-
ward to my senior season of bas-

-ketball hoping that my summer of

running and practicing would earn
me something better than just
another year of having that great
front row seat onthe bench. All the
pieces of my life seemed to be
falling neatly into place.Then, as
they say, “the doo-doo hit the

fan.” And, boy, “wiken that doo-doo
hit, it sure hit hard.
I had begun to gradually no-

- tice that the level of my play at

basketball practice had dropped. I
couldn’t get my outside shots to
fall, [had difficulty getting up and
dqwn the court every time and my
rim-shattering dunks weren’t quite
as rim-shattering. (Okay, so I’ve
never had arim-shattering dunk in
my life, except in my dreams.)
Anyway, I blamed my de-
creased intensity on my nagging
leg pains. My mother guessed that
I had an iron-deficiency, so the
afternoon before our first game at
East Mecklenburg, I stopped by
the doctor’s office for what I

thought would be a “routine five-

minute visit.” That visit wouldturn _
into a year-long saga.

Thereal nervous anxiety set in
when my doctor repeated the blood
tests for a third time. The look on
his face when he entered the exam-
ining room was definitely one of
“falseconfidence.” Hesentme over

INSIDE

staff to practice good crime pre- J am personally very committed to News Campus Living 5
vention techniques: locking dom _ this effort because it was the life- Davidson gets new Editors' review Back-
rooms, registering and locking up saving bone marrow donation by Stes
bicycles, registering expensive my eight-year old sister, Lee, that |COMPtroller. Page 2. street Cafe
equipment, and using the college helped save my own life. ey ates,
escort service. The donation of bone marrow | Blue Paper Shoes to be Sports 7
Although the college police’ to those who so desperately need performed. Page 2 - Fall season team
encourage students to register their it, offers the high potential and % : wrap-u
bicycles, few have done so. In hope for a cure, in an otherwise Opinions Pp:
October, fourteen bicycles were _ bleak scenario. Our national bone :
stolen, seven of those were recov- marrow registry can only currently R.O.T.C. cadet doesn to: § .
oneoftherecovered provide “donor matches” for a | want war. Page4 — : "First Class Mail
bicycles had been registered. small proportion of those whoneed U.S. Postage Paid |
Thrower reminds studentsthat one, With the assistance oftheRed- |D.A, Thompson urges - Permit #1
~ Cross and various sponsors, it is students to write. Page 4 Davidson, North Carolina 28036
Continued on Page 2 our wish that Davidson College eae 3 vas

