2

Beyond Davidson

Wednesday, February 14, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Mandela freed; German exchange student
discusses pros and cons of reunification

By CAROL GATEWOOD and
CAROLINE WILLIAMSON
USSR: Ina three day meeting last week,
the Central Committee approved
Mikhail Gorbachev’s proposal for
change in the Soviet system of govern-
ment. These proposals included 1) for
the Communist Party to relinquish its
monopoly on political power so as to

allow for the eventual emergence of a _

multi-party system and 2) for a new
elected post of president to be formed.
The idea behind these proposals is to
make the USSR into a more pluralist
society. According to Alexander
Yakovlev, Gorbachev's liberal aid, the
changes are “a major step away from
the [old] administrative model of so-
cialism toward a new society with more
democratic choice.” Even though the
proposed plan includes the emergence
of new political parties, the Communist
party will probably remain a strong
faction in the USSR.

According to an article in The Wall
Street Journal, if Gorbachev becomes the
new president of the USSR, along with
his other roles he will have more power
than the President of the US. The pro-
posals must go before the full Commu-
nist Party Congress in late June or early
July. Because the plan deals with a
change in the Soviet Constitution, it
must next be presented to the parlia-
ment as a policy platform. This pro-
posed change in the Soviet political
arena is surprising given Gorbachev's
disapproval late last year of a multi-
party system.

Just as the Central Committee con-
cluded its meetings, Secretary of State
James Baker arrived in the Soviet Union
to meet with top leaders and attend a
parliamentary committee meeting.
During his visit Baker introduced anew
proposal by President Bush that calls
for a limit of troop levels in Europe to
175,000 for each superpower. This
would involve cuts of 60,000 by the U.S.
and 370,000 by the USSR from present
levels. As stated by the New York Times
Baker introduced the proposal in an
effort to avoid any upstaging by Gor-
bachev (which occurred during Baker’s

last visit when Gorbachev introduced a
plan to cut 500 missiles in Europe). The
Administration’s may also be trying to
strengthen its foreign policy position in
anticipation of Congressional elections
in November that may give the Demo-
cratic-controlled Congress more license
to cut defense budget proposals for fis-
cal year 1990.

CHINA: Chinese officials warned that
changes in its government similar to
those in Eastern Europe would lead to
civil war in China. Earlier the Chinese
government declared that it would not
change its communist form of govern-
ment.

SOUTH AFRICA: Nelson Mandela, the
leader of the ANC, was released from
prison on February 11 at 3 a.m. For the
first time since 1964, Mandela ad-
dressed a group at Cape Town’s City
Hall a few hours after his release. In the
midst of celebration over his release,
fear exists that violence will increase,

. not only between the government and

the anti-apartheid movement but also
between black factions to the left and
right of the ANC. De Klerk met with
Mandela on Friday night and felt that
Mandela was “committed to peaceful
solution.” Mandela hasagreed to medi-
ate between the government and the
recently legalized ANC. President Bush
praised De Klerk for Mandela’s release
and proposed that some US sanctions
towards South Africa be released. This
received mixed opinions in Congress
with some congressmen feeling that
South Africa should be rewarded for its
efforts and others saying that South
Africa has not done enough to alleviate
its racial problems.

GERMAN REUNIFICATION: Fol -
lowing international events by iust
reading newspapers and periodicals
does notalwayslet Americans maintain
an accurate perspective of what's really
going on in the world. Fortunately last
week Thomas Fischer, an exchange
student from Wurzburg, West Ger-
many, provided us with details on the
problems that the two Germanies must

deal with in their steps towards reunifi-
cation.

Thomas first explained that the West
German constitution implemented in
1945 set reunification as its highest goal
and that when it occurs a new
constitution must be formed. Undoubt-
edly Germansare excited at finally real-
izing this goal, but reunification will
force both countries through many dif-
ficult changes and-it will require inter-
national cooperation and support. Tho-
mas pointed out that Article IV of the
Deutschland Vertrag (the German
treaty that formally ended WWII) re-
quires that the four occupying powers
(US, France, Great Britain, and the
USSR) support the reunification. Last
week Helmut Kohl met with Mikhail
Gorbachev todiscuss the German ques-
tion. Gorbachev agreed with Kohl that
reunification is inevitable, thus ‘sig-
nalling a victory for the West German
Prime Minister. On February 24/25,
Kohl will travel to the US in hopes of
receiving the same recognition and
support from President Bush. Great
Britain, however, continues to hold out
against the uniting of the two.Germa-
nies.

The two Germanies also are forced to
deal with their respective membership
in NATO and the Warsaw Pact; natu-
rally this will involve all other members
of these alliances that have dominated
East- West relations for the past forty
years. Thomas explained that Prime

Minister Modrow of the GDR supports

the ten point plan outlined by Prime
Minister Kohl of the FRG that sees neu-
tralization of the Germanies as a com-
ponent of reunification: Modrow has
suggested that this can only be accom-
plished if each Germany revokes its
membership in NATO and the Warsaw
Pact. Presently Kohl as well as other
member nations are against pulling out
of NATO. |
Thomas also emphasized how weak
East Germany’s political and economic
conditions are today. Presently the
government is in a trap where it cannot
make policy forits own people. Instead,
pressure groups are making policy as
the most popular leaders of the SED

continue toleave their party and pursue
new political careers in other groups.
Elections scheduled for March 18 may
help give the government popular
mandate but as Thomas said this will
not necessarily solve East Germany’s
economic problems. The economy is
one that has for 40 years been centrally
planned by the communist govern-
ment. Asa result, no substantial upper-
level management exists in the country
and 60 to 70 percent of the economy is
self-reliant. The consequences of these
two factors have grown due to thelarge
exodus of skilled workers to the West.
Thomas illustrated the implications by
pointing out thatif oneindustry in West
Germany fails because it lacks-skilled
workers, it can have a domino effect
upon other industries. Combined with
East Germany’s present inability to
convert its currency, the potential for
collapse is eminent. This explains
Kohl’s immediate move last week to
form a committee that will try to unite
the currencies of the two Germanies.
West Germany does not need the extra
burden of dealing witha collapsed East
German economy; Thomas pointed out
that even if reunification succeeds on
paper, West Germany as a individual
body will be weaker.

In the midst of all of these changes,
Thomas fears that Americans don’t
realize the how monumental they are
and that the United States can make
great contributions to Eastern Europe
and the Soviet Union that are not neces-

‘sarily monetary. The US ‘has ‘a great

opportunity through its knowledge in
Western management and consulting
to help support the economic changes
that are surpassing political change
through a better transition.

‘ The urgency of this can be seen when
one envisions Thomas’ “worst-case
scenario” for Western Europe if condi-
tions in the USSR become so unstable in
one day from political overthrow. or
economic collapse. If its citizens decide
to leave, Western Europe would be
forced to deal with the arrival of up to
five million emigrants in one day. How
would even the US react to such a situ-
ation?

SOGGY, from page 1

morning and worked with a profes-
sional cleaning service, Servicemaster,
to remove the water and treat the car-
pets the carpets to prevent mildew from
growing. The owner of the service re-
ported that none of the carpets sus-
tained any permanent damage.

In addition to carpets, items such as
sweaters, notebooks, luggage, text
books and a computer that were on the
floor at the time were also soaked. Al-
though Terry said the College was not
legally responsible for damages, he told
students on the hall to turn in a com-
plete list of ruined items so that the
College could try to work out some
compensation.

The chief complaint from Akers’ resi-

dents was the musty smell that re-
mained in the dorm for almost a week
after the flood. “It smelled like a musty
gym bag,” complained Louis Gueday of
Akers 111.

Gueday said cementbricks have now
been place around the water heater as a
type of dam to hold the water in the
event of a future leak, although he was
skeptical of this measure’s effective-
ness.

Terry said the incident was a result of
the seal on the casket being worn down
and suggested that for such an incident
to occur again would be extremely rare.

But Gene Jones, Akers 109, was not
convinced that the incident was just a
fluke.

He summed up the sentiment shared |

by many of his hallmates: “I just hope
they fix it right this time.”

IVANA TRUMPSEEKS
DAVIDSON COLLEGE IN DIVORCE SUIT!
DETAILS IN YOUR NEXT DAVID’ S ONION!

ggg

~ DORM DELIVERY

NOW AVAILABLE
Call in your order by 8:45 PM

896-7611
Delivery 9:30 PM

Sunday thru Thursday nights

i
i

‘i
ri
H

seafood, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil/vinegar.
THE AMERICAN vite
Toast beef, turkey, ham, cheese, lettuce,
tomato, onion, oil and Rares ck 33.00
@ THE ITALIAN
salami, Piveeretl; Mord salem, ham, cheese,
, tomato, 1, and Se,
‘ee onion vinegar $3.00
- cappicola, hard salami, ham, salami, cheese
lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar .
@ THE HAM $3.00
ham, “lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar. |
@ THE TURKEY Sad
turkey, lettuce, tomato, onion oil vinegar . 33
@ THE ROAST BEEF nigel
Toast beef, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil
© THE vinegar. . $3.00

Hi, at Steak ‘= Hoagie are happy to initiate dorm deliveries on @ trial

dele and ngs >
‘flert. Gowpon effete wil not be eppliceie 80 theve datiocrna vested bated om the oucceee pie

