THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS THURSDAY, APRIL 12, 1990

Photo ' Courtesy of College Kelations
The Renaissance Ensemble performed at Lingle Chapel this past Sunday, April 8.

Environmental Action Group to
Sponsor Earth Week

Group Has Shed "Granola Bar Image"

By ARMANDO SANCHEZ-
ABALLI

An assortment of students, moti-
vated by a genuine concern for the
decaying condition of the environment,
have revived an action-oriented or-
ganization and consolidated their en-
ergies into the Environmental Action
Group.

In addition to sponsoring Earth
Week '90, the group has adopted a
stream in Huntersville and a four mile
stretch of highway I-77 which they
maintain free from pollution, as well
as working with Patterson Court and
the Dining Services on the use of recy-
clable materials.

The group’s genesis can be traced
back to the Spring semester of *89
whenconcemed students rallied around
Environmental Action Week and pre-
sented exhibits and speakers. Once
the week had reached a conclusion,

however, the-group-seemed-to-have-

lost impetus and floundered.
Although the group intimates a
global concern for the environment,
their efforts are centered around the
immediate area. This pragmatic ap-
proach accompanies a set of well-de-
fined goals and an experienced envi-

ronmentalist to insure the success of
the enterprise.

Gerald Hutchinson of the Davidson
Outdoors Program serves as advisor
for the self-funded group, and believes
that “narrowing the scope of the group”
and keeping the goals as “specific as
possible” will prevent the group from
dissolving again. Hutchinson’s expe-
rience and insight with environmental
issues steers the group’s enthusiasm
in the right direction. To better au-
thenticate their efforts, the group has
aligned itself with the Greenpeace or-
ganization and with the North Caro-
lina Coastal Federation in a spirit of
cooperation.

The tum of worldly events has
swung global attention to the condi-
tion of the environment and has planted
the seeds of awareness in the minds of
individuals. The Environmental Ac-
tion Group, therefore, views their
mission as not promoting awareness
-asmuch as “promoting environmental
action” said Hutchinson.

Group member Derrick Willard
*91 stresses “the importance of indi-
vidual action” and believes that the
group can help people recognize that
“they can make a difference”.

The exuberance of its members

coupled with the informal demeanor
of the group has attracted a significant
number of concerned individuals. One
such member, junior Tina Laidlaw,
contributes herexperiences to the group
from environmental issues she ob-

served while studying in France. She °
‘ hopes’ Davidson ‘students will adopt

new habits that are compatible with
the environment and “foster those
habits” long after they depart. Al-
though Jenny McDonald ’91 realizes
that she cannot “make people care”,
she hopes to help Davidson become
“an envifonmentally sound commu-
nity”.

Hutchinson and Willard both share
an optimism regarding the support the
community will lend the group. “By
maintaining a non-threatening ap-
proach to environmental issues” said
Hutchinson, “we hope to solicit the
cooperation of the whole Davidson
community”. Willard also believes an
“activist approach is not needed”, and-
believes environmental groups in
general have shed their “granola bar
image”.

This year’s week long events will
commence on the 16th of April and
will consist of movies, speakers, and
panel discussions.

The Davidsonian reminds you to recycle.

Southern Women
Myths Answered

Panel Discussion Led by McMillan

By RAMI EL-AMINE

If you did not already know: that
classic movie, Gone with the Wind,
epotimizes, oddly enough, the myths
still associated with women today. In
a panel discussion led by history pro-
fessor Sally McMillen, who has just
published Motherhood in the Old
South, seniors Kelly Cruise and Sarah
Johnson, assistant Chaplain and Di-
rector of Love and Learning Brenda
Tapia, and sophomore Michelle Blake
gave their views on such myths.

McMillen asked “Considering
Southern women are often depicted as
flirtatious, submissive, ornamental,
dependent and even manipulative and
Southern black women are often'seen
as assertive, hard working, pragmatic,
dependable and even aggressive, how
much truth is there in these myths
today? and Why do they exist?

Tapia said that “there is a bit of
truth in these myths.” She went on to
say that for socioeconomic reasons,
black women have often had to go out
and be the breadwinners and caretak-
ers of the family.

Sarah Johnson, commenting that
she is the grandaughter of a plantation
owner, said the comparison of a south-
em women with a steel magnolia has
often been talked about in her family.
Johnson says southern women “havea
persuasive character which they use to

’ make a statement. They are noncon-

frontational, religious, and worried
about outward presentation.”

Along the same lines of outward
presentation, Cruise said “ Southern
women have political opinions but they
will tell you that they are not political.”
One woman she (and Johnson) inter-
viewed to get a better idea of what
southern women are like said that she
writes to her congressman but she is
not political. Cruise added that south-
em women have a tendency to ask
questions about family, and discuss
family related subjects while.

In response to one author’s quote,

“Everybody knows the South is a

matriarchy and the womer-are in con-
trol. The idea that men are in control is
just a myth everybody agrees to pre-
tend to.” McMillen asked “How ac-
curately does this portray southem
black and white women? Does this
concept of matriarchy-whether accu-
rateornot-which cancentrates somuch
on private and domestic natures-inter-
fere with women’s equality in the
public sphere.” :

Johnson responded “My mother
says she has the best of both worlds;

she can stand on the pedestal and have
control at the same time. Southern
women who feel this way are wrong
because they tend to defer major deci-
sions to the men. Sheis fooling herself
by thinking this.”

Tapiasaid, withrespectto the black
family, “It is both male and female
dominated. This is a result of the
institution of slavery where, because
of the different relationship the slave
owner had with the male slaves then
with the female slave, women were
able to be more assertive in protection
of their male brothers: and children.
Later on, the economy forced black
men to become the providers for the
family.” Tapia’s own experience is
patriarchical, however, there was no
real separation of roles between the
men and women in her family.

Blake added that “the dominance
stays within the home.” She wenton to
say that the southern black woman
seems to be more vocal.

McMillen’s third question asked
the panelists whether they felt it was

hard for black and white women in the

South to really understand one an-
other, and if it was, can you explain
why?

Tapia feltthere were barriers which
“stem. from the -southern white
women’s notion of superiority. How-
ever, they are’not conscious they are
functioning inthat manner.” She said
thatsouthern white women tend to talk
to down to her because of this notion of
superiority.

Blake felt there were no gender
barriers, but there were barriers when
it came down to ethnicity. Her first
concem is her black heritage then
comes gender.

McMillen’s final question was
whether the panelists felt that sothern
women on a whole were changing? If
yes, then how?

Johnson agreed, “Things are
changing but not as much as other
parts of the country. They have more

~ options but they still see their primary

role is being in the home." Tapia
added that “the ERA contributed, to
this change by waking southern women
up to be more assertive. The current
economic situation has forced them to
enter the workforce. Things in society
are forcing us to change.”

McMillen ended the panel discus-
sion with a word.to the wise on the
status of womeneverywhere, she said
to “think of women as individuals
because that is what we all are.”

By JAY CLUGSTON

We produce too much trash!
Americans view newer, more con-
venient, more sanitary, and more dis-
posable products as better and more
necessary ones. These beliefs have
created America’s disposable soci-
ety, where “more than half the cities
in America will exhaust their current
landfills by 1990” (Earth Works
Group. 50 SimpleThings YouCan Do
to Save the Earth, p.16). Space for
new landfills is available outside of

Environmental Tip of the Week

many of these cities, but the people
populating these areas do not want to
live with some one else’s garbage,
regardless of therevenue itmight bring
theirregion. Meanwhile, we produce
trash atan increasing rate. Since 1960,
garbage from product packaging has
increased 200% (p.16). “Other indus-
trial countries produce half as much
trash per person as we do, and recycle
a major portion of it.... The cheapest
and safest ways to deal with trash are

Here are ten trash saving ideas:

1. Choose the Commons over
the Cafe. Almost everything bought
in the Cafe requires you to throw
something away (plates, plastic silver-
ware, packaging, bottle tops, etc.).

2. Take only what you need
when eating at your House or in the
Commons (especially when grabbing
napkins, syrup packs, butter, etc.).

3. Limit (better yet, obliterate)

those that make common sense: Pro- | your use of disposable cups. This

ducing less waste and recycling more”

(p.16).

means styrofoam cups in the Cafe and
Commons, and plastic and paper cups

at the Court. Don’t take out (steal?)
cereal from the Commons if it requires
you to putitin a styrofoam cup. If you
fear ice cream meltage, wait until
you're ready to eat it, and then goupto
the line and get it in a glass. Don’t get
a styrofoam cup for water in the Cafe.
Instead use the Union's water foun-
tains or bring your own cup.

4. Take class notes on both sides
of the paper.

5. Xerox only what is necessary.

6, Return clothes hangers to the
Laundry.

7. Decrease fast food consump-

tion (this will save packaging, as
well as the gas it took to get there). °

8. Try to buy fewer disposable
products such as razors, pens, and
cameras.

9. Recycle all you can, even if
this requires carrying recyclables over
to the Union or your dorm.

10. BE AWARE of the trash you
produce. Is it all necessary? Are
there ways you could decrease it?

Remember don't throw it all
away, a friendly reminder from the
D.C. Reycycling Committee

