14

THE DAVIDSONIAN -

SPORTS

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 , 1990

Men's Cross-Country

X-Country Setting the Pace

By PETER HURTADO

In head to head competition with the
best harriers in North Carolina on a mud-
slick, hilly course, the men’s cross-country

team once again displayed its trademark:

depth, placing Sth of 8 teams at the North
Carolina Intercollegiate State Meet this past
Saturday in Brevard.

The men overcame these slow and sloppy
conditions to improve on last year’s 6th
place finish. The Wildcats’ depth was evi-
dentas their top four runners were separated
by only 40 seconds.

Davidson’s top finisher, Chris Otrok
(22nd, 29:02) was followed closely by Ian
Stewart (23rd, 29:04); this frontrunning
typifies the depth of this year’s squad. Only
17 seconds behind was Ted Richardson
(32nd, 29:21), who has demonstrated con-
sistentimprovementthis season. Davidson’s
further success rests on the continued im-
provementof these three leading runners, in
addition to the return of David Kerns from
recent illness.

Following Richardson was “Pete Hur-
tado (38th, 29:42) and Cam Dauler (47th,
30:25), both of whom have improved stead-
ily. Davidson’s top seven was rounded out
by Dave Kerns (53rd) and Shelton Bellew
(54th). Richard Wharton (64th) was-close
behind, and Greg Fisher also ran well for
Davidson.

The men’s squad is optimistic about the
Big South Conference Meet in two weeks.
After finishing next to the top runners in the

‘state and overcoming adverse conditions,

the menare prepared for a determined effort
against the best of the Big South. Their
potential for improvementseems unlimited,
and Coach Gary Andrew has designed this
year’s training so that his runners will peak
at the Conference Mect.

This coming Saturday is your lastchance
to see the Davidson cross-country team in
action. The women race 2 miles at 12:00
noon, and the men’s race (5k) follows at
12:20. Come out to the field-hockey field
and support your harriers in this “tune up”
for the Conference meet.

Women's Cross-Country

Uphill and Far Ahead

By PETER HURTADO

The women’s cross-country team over-
came ahilly and sloppy course to prove that
they can compete with the best runners in
North Carolina. The Wildcats ran hard and
placed 4th in the NC Intercollegiate State
Mcet last Saturday at Brevard College, im-
proving on last year’s 7th place finish and
finishing only 6 points behind 3rd place
Duke.

Despite the absence of senior co-captain
Katie Reynolds, the women placed 2 run-
ners within the top ten, and their next three
runners finished within a space of1:19.

Kathy Beach (7th, 20:22) and Karen
Marshall (10th, 20:42) once again led the
way for Davidson, running with the best
collegiate runners in the North Carolina.
Both women were named Athletes of the
Week for their outstanding performances in

the state meet.

Heather Tarpley had another strong race,
placing 29th in 22:06 on the slow, muddy
course. The deep top five was anchored by
Jean DeMoss (40th, 23:09) and snior Laurie
Reams (44th, 23:25). Lisa Sitek rounded out
Davidson’s squad in 50th place (24:33).

The team received great performances
from eachrunner,and competed well against
much larger schools. The steady improve-
ment of all seven women, as well as: the
expected return of freshman Amy Bertram
from early injury, isasource of optimism for
coach Gary Andrew as the Conference Meet
nears.

Never before has the women’s team
possesed such a depth of impact freshmen.

Davidson hosts the Davidson Invita-
tional this Saturday at 12:00 noon, as they
gear up for the Big South Conference Meet
i eeks

HomeWith Baseball's Cooke

First year baseball Coach Dick Cooke
describes himself as an optimistic man who
is pleased with his job and hopeful for the
future of Davidson baseball.

Coach Cooke has a long history in base-
ball, having played college ball at the Uni-
versity of Richmond and pro ball with the
Boston Red Sox, and most recently, having
been the head coach of a fledgling baseball
program at Belmont Abbey College. Cooke
is happy where he is now, having known
since college that he would eventually be-
come a college baseball coach. He says that
he simply loves to see kids grow from the
experiences of intercollegiate athletics.

Cooke’s feelings sbout Davidson closely
parallel those of the student body and fac-
ulty. He knows that academics here will
always come first, and he is glad of this.
Because of this tradition he doesn’t feel the

pressure to win that he might feel ata major_

state university,.and he is therefore able to
concentrate more fully on his:number-one
objective, developing a quality student ath-
lete.

As for the future success of Davidson
College Baseball, Cooke is optimistic. be-
cause, as he says, his players are optimistic.
He and they are all motivated, looking for-
ward already to the post-season converence
tournament. Even thought DC baseball lost
some highly talented players last year, Coach

Cooke is confident about the team’s ability ~

to pick up where they left off last season and
follow in the footsteps of last year’s winning
team.

When asked what impressed him most
about this year’s baseball team, Cooke re-
sponded “the kids, the intelligence of the.
kids, their maturity, the work ethic.”

Columbia Scholastic Press Association
Has Awarded The Davidsonian
Second Place in It's Annual Critique for
Spring 1990.

Thank You.

Editors Puckett and Chaudhuri

Steve Canyon | Must We Exhibit?

Now that the football team has four wins
under its belt isn’t it about time that the
coaches dropped the Baptist, game from the
schedule? You know the one I’m talking
about. It’s the game at the very bottom of the
schedule that has an asterisk beside it indi-
cating that it is an exhibition game.

Most teams play exhibition games prior
to the season to get a feel for what players
can do, what plays will work and how the
team will perform. Apparently the logic of
this is lost on our coaching staff:

Don’t getme wrong. I think the coaches
have done a fantastic job this season and
they deserve all the credit in the world for
having done it, but where is the logic in
playing a game that doesn’t count in the
standings, that doesn’t count toward any-
body’s statistics and where the best thing
that can possibly come out of the game is
that nobody gets hurt.

Perhaps the coaches are going to use the
game as an exhibition for the 1991 season,
sort of a spring scrimmage five months
early. They can play all the freshmen and
geta feel for what playerscan do, what plays
will work and how the team will perform.
Those players who didn’t get much playing
time this year, but will be expected to con-
tribute heavily next season, will then havea
chance to get some game experience.

This makes some sense, but ifa Richard

Howell, a Brett Boretti or anyone for that
matter, gets carried off the field with a
blown knee, will it be worth it? No.

Maybe the coaches thought that if they
had only one Win at this point in the season
a win over a patsy like Baptist would be a
good morale booster heading into next sea-
son. Well, we’ve got four wins now, so do
we need the game for a morale or record
boost? No. 2

Not only doesn’t an end of the season
exhibition game make sense, but the fact
that its against Baptist makes it downright
dumb to play the game. I’ll explain. Does
anybody remember seeing Baptist in any of
the preseason polls or conference outlooks?
Of course not. No self-respecting major
publication bothers to make predictions
about CLUB FOOTBALL TEAMS. That’s
right, Baptist doesn’t have a real football
team. They have a CLUB team.. Does it
make any sense to play a bunch of keg-
toting football. wannabes in an end of the
year exhibition game? No.

What makes even less sense? We’re
traveling to South Carolinato play them. An
away, end of the season, exhibition game
against a club football team. That just sends
my heart racing. If it does yours too, don’t
worry if you can’t make trip this year. This
rivalry to end all rivalries is contracted to be
played again next year. Oh joy.

Pree E sae NOU. .

