THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 6 ,1990

15

Fagg

Continued from Page 13, Column 1

duty at tailback.

Fagg is “excited” about the imminent
entry of Davidson into the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference for football. Already,
someODAC opponents have been integrated
into the schedule. Membership is expected
by 1992. The ODAC includes Hampden-
Sydney, Washington and Lee and Guilford,
among others.

So the pieces of the puzzle are nearly
complete; a new coach, a solid group of
players and a'new conference within two
years. As coach Fagg says, now all that is
leftis “to workas hard as we can to make this
the most successful Division III program
possible.”

Support
The Wildcats

Loss

Continued from Page 13, Column 4

over the ‘Cats for more than 100 yards and
a second half touchdown. A Sewanee field
goal made the final 17-9.

There were bright spots for the Wildcats,
notably the punting and return games, the
pass rush and the play of quarterbacks
Richard Howell and Mark Wainwright. But
head coach Dave Fagg was not pleased with
his team’s performance. “It’s hard to find
positives,” he said. “We have a list of things
in which we have to be successful for us to
have a chance to win. We didn’t realize any
of those objectives.”

' The ‘Cats will attempt to rebound from
the loss Saturday at Millsaps, which will be
playing its season opener. Davidsondefeated
the Majors, 15-0, last year at Richardson
Field. Coach Fagg has used this week to
evaluate his quarterbacks and will have
decided on a single starter for the game
Saturday.

Collegiate

SM:

Banking

Saves tou =

When you
remember t.

Don't get wrecked. If you're not sober-

or youre not sure—
let someone else do the driving.
A message provided by this newspaper
and Beer Drinkers of America
**

+—' *

Pr: ie
* }
*

we
® *
BEER DRINKERS
OF AMERICA
PARTY*SMART
National Headquarters
150 Paularino Ave., Suite 190
Costa Mesa, CA 92626
714/557-2337
1-800-441-2337

“Beer Drinkers of America is a non-profit Gonsunier membershi
organization open only to persons over the age of 21."

At First Union, we know that

College Credit.

Which is why we make college life and any unexpected expenses. And there’s no
banking with us as economical _ annual fee for the first year!

and convenient as possible with First Union's Collegiate
Banking™ Express package. %

| college students need to make We make it easy for students to get the credit they deserve
the most of their money. with a First Union VISA® card. Use it for all the essentials of

Money Saving Extras.

is Our Collegiate Banking Express package is available with

It’s Your Choice. aE optional money saving extras including our Instant Cash
Other banks may think that students only need one type of» Reserve option to avoid the bounced check blues and instant

checking account. With Collegiate Banking Express, we give access at our 24 Hour Banking Machines.

you a choice between our No Minimum Checking and No other bank in town offers students a package with this

Organized Banking account. No matter which account you much value. To open your Collegiate Banking Express
choose, you'll get a lot of Service, without a lot of service fees, ma program, come by any First Union branch.

- Money From Home.

No more anxious waiting by the mailbox for that all
important check from home with our optional Fast Money™
service. Your parents can have money automatically Call or stop by our branch and
transferred from their First Union checking account.to yours at | Open your account today!
no charge. You'll know exactly when you have access tothose Main Branch —
funds to help you budget your money. -.112 South Main Street

Service. We Guarantee It.®

*, 892-8861

Member FDIC

_ ©1990 First Union Corporation 90371s
