Thursday, February 22, 1990 THE DAVIDSONIAN

PANEL, from previous page

the situation. I think the economic life
will be better improved in East Ger-
many ... We need retrained programs
and also programs which comply with
monetary union in order to ensure that
wecanabolish the high degree of unem-
ploymentin all parts of Germany ... The
currency union also means we have to
go quickly to a market economy, a
market economy that we have in the
Federal Republic.

Dr. Jackson Janes, Deputy Director of the
American Institute for Contemporary Ger-
man Studies, an affiliate of The Johns
Hopkins University:

In retrospect I see an enormous sense
of pride in what has happened in the

last several months among my friends:

in West Germany .. . I think it is very
difficult for Americans to understand
what has happened to them emotion-
ally unless you have spent a lot of time
over there...Germany has moved from
a protege of the United States in the
early 1950s to a junior partner to a full
partner with one that has had
enormous expectation from the United
States as to what it is and what it has
accomplished. And I think this is
something that will involve a certain
adjustment in the United States for our
own purposes. I think that thesituation
thatis emerging in Europe will inevita-
bly put Germany into a important
linchpin leadership role that it has al-
ready got in the European Community
and now it is going to be expanded. I
don’tthink anyonein the West German
government believes that a Germani-
fied Europe is in anyway desirable and
going back to the 1950sa Europeanized
Germany is what they have been call-

ing for. The problem, I think, is going to
be in some ways. .. on our adjustment
because what we're seeing is happen-
ing before our eyes. It couldn’t be
changed even if we wanted to. We’re
lucky that it’s going in the direction that
itis. But we’ve got some adjustments to
make on our own, and I think, that’s

something we need to think about. The "

West Germans are very clear about
what they want to do; that’s been their
strength... But I think it raises ques-
tions where the United States will be in
allof this. For many years, of course, we
have been in a position of leadership
and presuminga position of leadership,
especially through NATO. NATO was
created a time when the world was
fairly clear, a black and white world. It
is no longer black and white. And the
instrumentation of NATO is something
we are trying to grapple with . . . but it
will go hand and hand with a new
American understanding of our role in

5

Europe. And I think that going to have
some problems with some Americans;
for example, like pulling troops out of
Western Europe. What is that going to
do the domestic political debate in our
country? . .. I maintain it’s not going to
be an easy debate in this country.

Secondly, we have got to be aware of
the fact of our role in Europe which will
be different from the last forty years...
We will be involved . . . but I think we
have tounderstand a different role,aco-
operative role. It isn’t the lopsided
world it was in 1952, or for that matter
twenty years later.

As we talk about Germany, I think we
also need to talk about ourselves and
what our contribution is going to be
economically, politically, and militarily

But one thing we can depend on is the
way the West Germans have gone about
this issomething we can rely on, that we
can depend on, and I think build on.

WU

Lgl

STEAK’n HOAGIE

SOUTHLAKE SHOPPING CENTER

DORM DELIVERY

NOW AVAILABLE
Call in your order by 8:45 PM

896—7611

9:30 PM

Delivery

Sunday thru Thursday nights

@® THE CHICKEN BREAST
chicken breast, provolone cheese, lettuce,

tomato, oil and vinegar... ........... $3.50
@ THE SEAFOOD SALAD

seafood, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil/vinegar. . . .$3.50
@ THE AMERICAN

roast beef, turkey, ham, cheese, lettuce,

tomato, onion, oil and vinegar... ......... $3.00
@ THE ITALIAN

‘salami; pepperoni, hard salami, ham, cheese,

lettuce, tomato, onion, oil and vinegar... . . . $3.00
@ THE HOUSE

cappicola, hard salami, ham, salami, cheese,

lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... ..... $3.00
@® THE HAM

ham, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar... . . $3.00
@ THE TURKEY..

turkey, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar . . . .$3.00
@ THE ROAST BEEF .

roast beef, lettuce, tomato, onion, oil vinegar. . $3.00

@ THE CHEESE

provolone and American cheese, lettuce, tomato,

onion, oil and vinegar

4 ENA es ects ls OOO

@ HALF HOAGIES available on Boe

The American, The Italian or ham & cheese . . .

We at Steak ’n Hoagie are happy to initiate dorm deliveries on @ trial basis, with one time evening

deliveries.

effort. Coupon offers will not be applicable to these deliveries.

A more extensive delivery schedule and menu will be considered based on the success of this
