MONDAY, APRIL 15,1991 Campus Living 7

Art Show Offers A Glance At
Davidson Students' Talents

By Bryan Bayles

The Annual Student Art Exhi-
bition opened in Chambers Gal-
lery on Friday, April 12. Consist-
ing of works from courses offered
in the art department during the
1990-91 school year, the exhibi-
tion is an eclectic mix of works in
various media, including etchings,
lithographs, paintings, and mixed-
media assemblages.

The exhibition was judged by

Ms. Christa Faut, owner of Christa .

Faut Gallery on Main Street. First
Award went to Jim Dautremont
for a recent etching entitled Don

Scourge of Madness. Second and

Third Awards wentto Twila Welch
and Rob Lim respectively. Welch
just completed an impressive sen-
ior exhibition in the Union Gal-
lery, and Dautremont and Lim’s
senior shows are currently hang-
ing in Cunningham and Chambers
Lobby. Honorable Mentions were
awarded to John Morris, Bryan
Bayles and Michael Barber.

Although it is impossible for
the show to do justice to the matur-
ing process that students experi-

ence during extended periods of
study in Davidson’ sart department,
the images gathered here offer a
suggestion of the diverse pictorial
and thematic issues that can be
tackled by an ambitious student
body.

If nothing else, certain pieces
will point you towards particular
artists whose work you would like
to follow in the future. ,

Anyone interested in purchas-
ing works from the show should
contact the artists directly.

The show will remain hung .

through the last week of classes.

The Incredible Ease Of Well-Being

Cobb Bids Farewell
With Last Minute Advice

By Marlo Cobb

This is the last (normal) issue
of The Davidsonian so what fol-
lows are pieces of general infor-
mation which need to be printed,
but have never fit into an article.
- Popcorn is a snack which is
American Cancer Society- Ameri-
can Dietetic Association and
American Dental Association
approved. —
- Hot dogs are made from some
meats you would never eat, other-
wise, and 85% of the calories in
hot dogs come from fat. -
- Air travelis dehydrating. Coffee,
tea, soft drinks, and alcohol make
it worse. At ‘cabin beverage serv-
ice”, ask for water or mineral water
to minimize jet lag.

- The phosphoric acid ih carbon-

ated soft drinks interferes with

calcium absorption in women.

- Only 30 percent of American

women get enough calcium daily.
‘ This isnotas much of aproblem in

China, where they eat much less

protein; there is some evidence

that protein taken with calcium _

limits calcium’s absorption.
-“Sugar free” does notmean “lower
in calories”.

- Wearing high heels, especially
heels higher than one inch, can
result in ankle, calf, knee and back
injuries, as well as temporary dis-

comfort.

- Don’t put babies on low-fat diets
(yes, people are actually doing
this). Fat-rich diets under the age
of two are necessary; they won’t
make Baby into an overweight,
unhealthy adult. ‘

- Moderate exercise will help re-
lieve the pain of menstrual cramps.
- It is normal to feel hungrier dur-
ing your period.

- If you want to lose weight, don’t
eat late at night. We tend to get

hungrier at night, but metabolism.

is lower at this time,,and you can’t
burn any calories while you’re
sleeping.

- Eat slowly; after your stomach is

full, it takes about 20 minutes for —

this'‘message to be relayed from
the stomach to the brain.
- Remember that keeping weight
off necessitates permanent
changes in eating and exercise
habits. Statistics say that if you
diettolose weight fast, you’ llsoon
regain it, plus more.
- A safe rate of weight loss is one
half of a pound per week.
- Statistics say you are ten times
more likely to successfully change
yourself (forexample, lose weight)
if you stay away from self-help
groupsand doctor-prescribed diets
and, instead, implement the change
yourself.
- If youare interested in becoming
certified to teach aerobics, you
can look into ESA, AFAA, or the
IDEA Foundation. I am IDEA-
certified; two years ago their cer-
tification process involved study-
ing a 350-page book and taking a
2-3 hour test on physiology, kine-
siology, basic nutrition, and class
methods.

Write to IDEA Foundation,
6190Cornerstone Court East, suite
202, San Diego, CA, 92121.

What my roommates are saying
about me is true, to a certain ex-
tent, but...

I knew an extremely health-
conscious guy in high school; he
used to bring bell peppers to school
and eat them plain. We were 17 and
he. hadn’t had a cookie in three
years. I tried a similar lifestyle,
once: watch sweets, watch sweets,
countcalories, count calories, I’m-
going-to-the-beach-today-so-I’ve-
got-to-get-my-run-in-this-morn-
ing-at-6 am-before-we-go, etc. I
almost drove myself crazy.

My likesand dislikes are pretty
evenly distributed among things
that are “good for you” and things
that are “bad for you.” It’s incon-
venient for me that I like the taste of
beer, but I like spinach. Soft drinks
make me sick, and I don’tlike salty
foods. lactually enjoy running five
miles -- with a Walkman and a
good tape. I know I could improve
my physical health much more
directly if I cut out sweets, but
would my overall happiness in-
crease? I think not.

Really, you can keep a balance

and somehow escape driving your- °

self insane, while being generally
health-conscious and avoiding
whichever vices are easiest for you
to avoid. rm

Some people have an easier
time watching what they eat; Other
people have an easier time keeping
with an exercise program.

I’d rather live than diet, per-
sonally, but whatever works for
you.

Just keep informed; know why
the way you live affects you like it
does, and make achange ifachange
will be beneficial to you in the long

run. Sianara. [How do you spell

“sianara”’?]

Watch for The DAVIDPHONIAN

f—

Sheppard Leads

| Students To Outdoor

Opportunities

By Kristen Stricker

After graduating from -col-
lege, most people find themselves
in acareer far removed from their
major. Greg Sheppard, however,
is one of those people who works
in their chosen field of study. As
Director of Davidson Outdoors,
he daily puts to use his degree
from Appalachian State Univer-
sity in outdoor recreation man-
agement.

Sheppard came to Davidson
last September after working for
three years as director of a wil-
derness camp for delinquent chil-
dren. Excited by the opportunity
to steer this relatively new pro- activities. Having grown up in
gram originally started by Ger- the mountains, he spent much of
aldHutchinson,Sheppardhasnot ° his childhood fishing, camping,
been disappointed.“Everyonein and hunting. Later, as a teenager
connection with the program has _ in the early 70’s, he and friends
been helpful and the students are gotcaught upin the backpacking
bright and energetic.” craze. This interest continued

Davidson Outdoors offers throughouta stint serving in the
camping, backpacking, rafting, Coast Guard, and later in col-
and. other outside trips to stu- _ lege.
dents. Sheppard feels this is a Sheppard feels that there is
good chance to let students get muchstudent interest in the trips
away from the hectic pace on that Davidson Outdoors offers,
campus and enjoy themselves | “butthere could be more partici-
outdoors. Sheppard has plans to _ pation.”’ Anew system of public-
take Davidson Outdoors further, _ ity will be tried next semester, so
however. Sheppard says thathe look for akiosk on campus, or a
“would like to see the program _ newsletter distributed to all stu-
gettothepoint where studenttrip. dents tomake sure no onemisses
leaders lead a majority of the outonsome greatopportunities. }
trips. It teaches rsponibiy, Man students do not realize
leadership, and offers a g it, but they can also take advan-
chance to interact with peers.” tage of renting camping equip-
He is also looking into getting ment at a nominal fee. And for
Davidson Outdoors affiliated all those people out there who
with a national wilderness asso- _ think you have to beanathlete in
ciation. This would allow stu- training in order to participate,
dent trip leaders to receive certi- Sheppard says,“ Acommon mis-
fication upon completion of a conception is that you have to be
specified program, a hard-core outdoors person to

Other activities in the near _ participate. But95 percentof the
futureincludeclinicsthroughout ~ trips are geared towards begin-
the year with topics suchas win- _ ners. So don’t be intimidated.”
ter camping, Kayak rolling, and And make sure you sign up next
fly fishing. He wouldalsoliketo semester for a great trip!

see more trips offered each
semester, atleastonc or twoevery
weekend.

Next semester, Davidson
Outdoors will offer such trips as
hang-gliding, rock climbing,
white water rafting, snorkeling
in the Florida Keys, canoeing in
the Everglades, sailing in the
Bahamas, and a Christmas ski
trip, possibly to Killington, Ver-
mont. Students will also have the
opportunity to receive physical
education credit fora rockclimb-
ing course. —

Sheppard has always been
interested in pursuing outdoor

