THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 3

Four Freshmen Injured in Accident

By Tom Price

While returning from the
Manor Theater in Charlotte last
Monday night, four freshmen
women were involved in a:single
car accident. Jo Burrows, Eliza-
beth Fleming, Rebecca Faulken-
berg, and Anna Grey Anderson all
sustained injuries.

Burrows, the driver of the
vehicle, was the most seriously
hurt of the four. As of press time,
she is stilhin the intensive care unit
at Presbyterian Hospital in Char-

Sex

Continued from page 1

so valuable needs to be protected.
Around fifth grade students learn
of the changes they are to expectin
their bodies and why these See
eccur.

Finally, in junior high, students
are introduced to the word AIDS.
They are told of the physical and
psychological consequences of
being too physically involved.
Bynum. said, “There is a certain
vail of modesty. we are all born
with.”

She said this modesty is why
male and female students are sepa-
rated in the edwgation process at
this point, “‘so as not to break this
vail of modesty.”

Miller added that often it’s not
the children who cannot speak
about sex to their parents, it’s the
parents thatcan’ttalk aboutit with
their kids. Miller said, “This is
where. Planned : Parenthood is

lotte. She suffered alacerated liver
and bruised her gall bladder and a
kidney. She was operated on
Monday night. Due to her injuries,
Burrows has had to withdraw from
school this term. She is hoping to
return to Davidson in the Spring.
Elizabeth Fleming suffered a
concussion, a separated shoulder,
and injured her neck. As aresult of
her concussion, Fleming does not
recall the accident taking place.
Rebecca Faulkenberg suffered
a broken hand and had to undergo

important. Too little or too much
education on sex, whether it’s. at
home or at school, is a dangerous
thing.” According to Miller, what
we need to do is to, “teach them
(students) how to say no, and how
to say yes, and when. Our sex
education classes are not meant to
put fear into students. We want
them to know that sex education
does notlead to sexual intercourse.”

Sara Withers said, “What we
need is to tell students early on that
sex goes hand in hand with love.’
Just saying * no Aue bean isnot
effective.”

Gross added to Wither’ scom-
ment by saying, “Sex is not just
genitals and it’s not only danger-
ous; you can die.” She also rein-
forced the idea of parents working
with their children to gain amutual
understanding about the issue of
sex,

In reality, Miller believes,
parents cannotdo itall and neither

can the school system. “Socially,

we have failed in teaching our

surgery to reset the thumb. She
also sprained her ankle.

AnnaGrey Anderson fared the
best in the accident, as she only
suffered a sprained ankle.

Apparently, the accident oc-
curred as Burrows reached down
to adjust the car’s heater or radio.
Upon looking up, she overcom-
pensated.for being too far over in
the lane and struck a telephone
pole. The four women were re-
turning from viewing a movie fora
film class they are enrolled in this
term.

children about sex,” said Miller.

Speaking from a physician’s
point of view, Gross said, “It’s so
pathetic to see twelve and thirteen
year old girls pregnant or with a
venereal disease because it’s so
preventable.”

Peer pressure and television
were the two leading causes given
for teenagers having sex at such
early ages. “There is a lot of de-

°ceptive teaching on television,” that

makes sex very appealing said
Bynum. She added, “We (the
school system) get a lot of emo-
tionally disabled children who have
no self value. It’s up to society to
doeverything they can to help these
children.”

Ina final comment, Sara With-
ers said, “Early age sex has alot to
do with the belief that sex just
comes naturally. Sex is almost a
secretive subject.” The panel con-
cluded the forum by agreeing that
education is the best preventative
of sexual disease’ and unwanted
pregnancy.

Ss ae Write For News:
Call Tom Koonce at -6582_

positions as Trip
"experts", but some

interest in

DAVIDSON
OUTDOORS

Is NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR
TRIP LEADERS

Do you love the outdoors? Want to go on adventurous
trips to beautiful places? Want to learn outdoor
skills and situational leadership? Are you a
freshman, sophomore or junior and can make a
commitment to lead at least 2. weekend
trips a year?

Then apply for a position with us!

We're looking for Seo women and men to train for
. Candidates need not be
experience in the outdoors could

be helpful. Basicall we need leaders with
"people skills", good judgement, and a sincere
providing quality outdoor
experiences for people.

rip Leader Training will consist of 10 two-hour
sessions on weeknights during the
semester, two weekend Adven
Challenges and successful comp.
Red Cross CPR and Standard First-Aid
classes.

ring
| of

If you are interested, then please plan to attend
an organisational meeting on Monday, December
at 8:00 p.m. inthe Davidson Outdoors Center, Johnston Gyn.
Also, bring a short letter of interest outlining:
1). prerecue. os outdoor experience, 2) leadership experience,
and 3) community service Spar ance,

Greg Sheppard, Director, paeitace Outdoors

Student Government
News

The SGA meeting last week opened with an announcement about
a Minus Grades Forum to address the concerns of students in coordi-
nation with the work of the ad hoc committee’s looking into the issue.’
The panel will consist of 3 students and 3 faculty members. The forum
was scheduled to occur on Wednesday , November 20 but was can-
celed because of a conflict with drop/add that Mig A new date has
yet to be announced. -

Rides Committee reported that there i is nowa bulletin board
in the Union helping coordinate carpools around the country. There
isamap of the United States allowing students to pinpoint where they
would like to go or where they are going. Thiscommittee also arranges
rides to Charlotte, especially trips to the airport before and after
breaks. Call the chairpersons with any. questions or to arrange a ride
(Virginia Edington at -6647 or Marie Huntington at -6559).

_ The majority of last week’s meeting dealt with the vote deciding
whether or not to give F.L.A.G. acharter, This discussion allowed
senators and F.L.A.G. officers to express their concerns about the
establishment of this organization at Davidson. Detailed notes on the
discussion can be found in the SGA minutes Roses around AES,

~Conduct

Continued from page 1

with property rights. In this way personal rights are now emphasized
more than rights of property.

The new section is entitled “Misconduct Which Affects the Rights
of Persons.” It reads:

The students of Davidson College are responsible for
maintaining an environment in which all individuals are treated with
respect. To that end, students will not engage in any form of activity
which intentionally or recklessly results in physical injury to any person
on College premises or at College sponsored activities, or which inter-
feres with the rights of visitors or members of the community. Physical
abuse, threats of violence, or conduct which endangers the health and
safety of others are prohibited.

Davidson College does not condone and will not tolerate sexual_
assault of any kind. Rape is forced sexual intercourse that is perpetrated
against the will of the victim; it occurs if one person uses force to coéyce
another, ‘regardless of the relationship existing between them. In
acquaintance or “date” rape, the assailant may be acasual acquaintance,

._ classmate, date, or significant other, The Code of Responsibility also
applies to sexual harassmentand to other forms of sexual assault, regard-
less of whether penetration occurs, including, but not limited to, abusive
conduct, digital penetration, and the unwanted touching of an intimate
part of another person. Obscene phone calls are another example of
misconduct affecting persons.”

€

© Columbia
““Get em while
its cold!”

dtal Cloth™
™ Parka

With 100% nylon Be
and a zip-out liner, the Bu
isan emectinl uy
at 20% off,
now $119.00

Shops on

McDonald's
and the
ah al

= Bie.

a Lidl

Canipii Equipment & Clothix ng]
