_» THEDAVIDSONIAN CAMPUS LIVING MOoNDAéY, JANUARY 28, 1991 13

.

Kenya

Continued from Page 10

means mosquito, butmbo means
testicle.” Harrington once ate a
termite.

Riding in a Land Rover was

rode standing up (the Rover had
an open back), squashed be-
tween about 10 other students,
all looking for wildlife through
binoculars. The Rover driver
was on the lookout for aardvark
holes in the road, which aard-
varks make at night. “I loved
riding around in the Rover,” said
Harrington.

Hastings rated trips in the
Rovers to game reserves as

He said that the roads were
horrible and full of potholes;
pieces of ceiling from the 20

and sitting was an exercise in
soreness; but, it was worth the
discomfort because all of their
' destinations were beautiful.
“Going on safari and having it
rain every time and nothaving a
rain coat” was a worst experi-
ence for Payne. Harrington,

the insect world, “that mbu -

an experience.in itself, as,one | -

ee

periences in the: States, break

among his worst experiences.

year old Rovers fell on his lap; .

Chamba (building on the ranch used for library
lectures, eating and cooking).

TARE eee
Oa a

Photos Courtesy of the Kenya Group
Market in Machokos, 30 km from ranch.

that their unhappiest experience
collectively and as individuals
was whén one student had to be
sent home.

The best thing Hastings
learned was “how to deal with
21 other people day in and day
out.” He described the experi-
enceas ‘muchmore intense than
college...we were so close.”

wasa high pointin the semester.
Harrington and Hastings found
paradise at Diani Beach, while
Payne journeyed to Tiwi Beach:
Diani Beach was a natural para-
dise, as Harrington describes,
“Wide, white beaches...calm,
turquoise, warm
water...blooming bushes around
our patio...palm trees.” How-
ever, the house came with a
cook, electricity, and hot run-
ning water - a taste of real lux-
ury.
When asked if they would
return to Kenya tomorrow, Har-
rington responded, “Defi-
nitely!,” and Hastings gave an
enthusiastic, “Yes!”. Payne said
she would like to go back even-
tually, but not immediately.

The author was unable to
reach LeAnn Simmons for con-

.,Llike college students’ ex.

Hastings, and Payne all agreed tribution to this article.

Chili | 2 bottles Heiniken beer
1 I Brown sausage slightly. Add
: beef. When browned, add on-
voi ae, emcee cutie Te oh ae

1 tablesponn paprika ~ Add everything.
2 teaspoons red pepper Add first bottle of beer first
2 teaspoons fgthur pepper three hours, slow heat, and then
: add the second bottle of beer.
5 colves pressed garlic -- Take one down, pass it around,
2 teaspoons Fox Hollow herbs ~—_ 97 bottles of beer on the wall.

The Davidsonian Knows Great Chili
Comes from NBA 201.
Call and find out? x6627

Draft

Continued from Page 10

drawing, based on birth, to deter-
mine who goes first. A man is in
the first priority for a possible draft
during the calendar year of his
20th birthday. The next year he
drops into the second priority cate-
gory. The 26th birthday is the age
which is generally over liability
for the draft. Registrants receiving
induction orders will be ordered to
report to a Military Processing
station for examination and pos-
sible immediate induction, 10 days
afterwards. The registrant can file
a claim for postponement, defer-
ment, or exemption from military
service. Once a registrant files a
claim, he is delayed induction until
his claim has been filed. What
postponements, exemptions, and
deferments will delay or inhibit
you from the war?

Under emergency mobilization
procedures, all registrants are
considered to be classified “avail-
able for service.” Because there is
no draft now, Selective Service
does not classify registrants at this
time. That is why pacifists have
not been able to register as consci-
entious objectors. If'a draft is acti-
vated, a registrant is delayed if he
files a claim for postponement,
deferment, or exemption. A regis-
trant is entitled to a postponement
if he is a student or he has an
emergency beyond his control,

Montgomery

Continued from Page 6

_fole of ourcountry in that equation

and our power is awesome and un-
precedented in world history.

The backbone of our country
and our ability to act globally are
our local resources, natural and
human. Our friends, family, and
neighbors fly F-15E’s, launch
Patriots, drive M1-

such as serious illness or a death in
his immediate family.

There are several exemptions
from the draft. Ministers may be
exempted from service. Ministe-
rial students are deferred from
service until they complete their
studies. Surviving sons or brothers
in a family where the parent or
sibling died as a result of U.S.
military service, or is in a captured
or missing in action status, are
exempt from service in peacetime.
Hardship deferments are available
for men. whose induction would
result in hardship to persons who
depend upon them for support.

Now we come to conscientious
objection. In order to qualify for
classification as_a conscientious
objector, a young man must be
conscientiously opposed to par-
ticipation in all wars, not a selec-
tive objection to a particular war.
Beliefs must be religious, moral,
or ethical in nature, as opposed to
beliefs based solely on politics,
expediency, or self-interest. The
claim must include a statement of
his beliefs, how he arrived at them,
and the influence they have on
how he lives his life, setting forth
the depth and sincerity of his con-
victions. He may include letters
from persons who know him well
and can attest to his beliefs. Con-
scientious objection is not as easy
as one may think.

Conscientious objection also
does not relieve you of your obli-
gation to serve. There are twotypes

The high-tech intrigue of the
Gulf war has easily superceded the
desperate fact that there is a war
going on at home. Drugs, crime,
S&L bailout, insurance, education,
illiteracy, AIDS. You name it, we
got it. We might remember the
advice to take the plank out of our
owneyes beforecomplaining about
dust in. someone else’s.

It seems that we are fascinated

of service which may be performed,
depending upon the individual’s
specific beliefs. A person who is
opposed to any form of military
service is required to perform a
period of civilian service. This is
equal to the length of time induc-
tees serve in the military in a job
which contributes to the national
health, safety or interest, as deter-
mined by the Director of Selective
Service. Alternative service work
for conscientious objectors can be
anything from conservation, car-
ing for the very young and the very
old, educational projects, and
health care. The person whose
beliefs allow him to serve in the
Armed Forces in a noncombatant
capacity becomes a member of the
Armed Forces and would be as-
signed to noncombatant duties and
would not receive any training in
the use of weapons.

Now you may be asking, “What
can I do in order to dissolve any
ideas for the reactivation of. a
draft?” In fact, there are several
things each individual can do. First,
write your Congressmen and voice
your opinion on the draft to them.
More importantly, support our
soldiers in the Middle East right
now! Strong support from home
translates into high morale within

_ the ranks of our military. No one

wants a draft, and the average ci-
vilian does not need to be jerked
from the sanity of daily life here in
America to the insane situation of
war.

for mandatory national service.
Perhaps we owe one year between
high school and college to serve
our country. It does not necessar-
ily need to be military.. Envision
working for the U.S. Corps of
Engineers, the Forest Service, a
National Teaching service, or some
new Environment Corps. Write
your congressman. Or the
Davidsonian.

Toend with, last

A1A’s and march

week’ s

through the sand. 1
Our steel, carbon

am a peace-loving, oft Birenstockclad sup-

Davidsonian
bothered me... I

compounds, andporter of this war. My opinion is . . . to continue disagree with ele-

explosives come cs : ments of my close
ei eine think and argue, listen and learn. Fugit Ons

Weare Nn: protest of the war
sible to uphold the and would not

ideals at home which we willingly
kill and die for abroad. Ignoring,
downplaying, or back-burnering
the delicate relationship between
our industry, economy, and nation
with our land is virtually “naked
aggression” against the environ-
ment. The peace and prosperity
afforded by this great nation de-
mands that we live at home as we
demand other nations to live
abroad. Our place in this new

by military hardware and the pre-
cision with which they deal with
problems. For domestic issues
however there are no “definable
objectives”, no line in the sand, no
SCUD’s to nail. It seems there-
fore, that we need to regain our
domestic vision. We must define
targets. Bush has inspired us to

‘ participate in a new world order.

Somehow that world order must
invigorate us on the national, state,

personally march in Washington
as many other Davidson students
have done, yet I entirely respect
and welcome opinions different
from my own.

Our troops are dying for this
right. Iam puzzled by the response
against her effort to stand up for
what she believes in and some-
what insulted by those who insen-
Sitively pigeon-hole things from
“Birkenstocks”, to “Dangerously

"A guy that is not cheesy is like a dog not lifting its leg."
-James Mason "91 as told in the E.H. Little Library

world order is not only as police- and local level. Liberal.” The same goes for“Con-
men, but must be as a leader in _—-_‘It begins withtheindividual. 1 _ servatives” or“‘Yuppies”, however.
domestic issues. have offered environmental sug- Youcan’tescapeappearances. Yet
While I offer the environment. gestions by which you can partici-_ simplemindsrely excessively upon
as a top priority, other domestic _ pate in the new world order. Only ‘labels to deal with complicated
issues call for attention. Wecan- you know yourself well enough to issues.
not let our success at warfare de- take it further. There is an “Envi- Tam a peace-loving, oft Birk-
Jude us. We are “Number One” in ronmental Conference” at  enstock clad supporter of this war.
many ways and I am prouder of Davidson March 3-7. Please par- My opinion about how to best deal
being from this country thanI have. ticipate. with the war is to continue to think
~ been in a while. But with this As an aside, I agree with col- and argue, listen and learn. Then
power comes responsibility. umnist William Buckley whocalls _ act.
Quote of the Week:

