16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Tony Snow, Chief Speech Writer for President Bush

By J. Kyle Kinner
The following is an interview between Kyle Kinner, a
junior working in Washington as an intern at the National
Republican Congressional Committee this semester, and
Tony Snow. Snow is President George Bush’ s chief speech
writer and a 1977 Davidson College graduate.

Davidsonian: So whathas happened to you since Davidson?

Snow: I taught briefly in Kenya with a professor at the
University of Nairobi, and everyone essentially went out to
his village, Bushanglia or some of the nearby schools. Then
I came back and tried to figure out what I wanted to do.

The first thing I did was wait tables while I serves as a
substitute teacher at my old school district in Cincinnati;
then worked for the Advocacy Council for the Mentally II
and Developmentally Disabled for six months in North
Carolina; went off to graduate school at the University of
Chicago... collected no degree at all and came back to
North Carolina and worked for the Z. Smith Reynolds
Foundation for a few months.

I landed my first newspaper job in Greensboro at the
Greensboro Record... two years there, went to Norfolk at
the Virginian Pilot for thirteen months; from there to the
Daily Press in Newport News, Virginia as editorial page
editor for fifteen months, then up to Detroit for three ©

did not originate here. What happened with the Nuclear
Disarmament speech, frankly... the National Security Coun-
cil had come up with a draft, as it often does. We probably
would have gotten a chance to pep it up, or make it a little
more poetic, but news of the speech had leaked to the
Washington Post, and at that point they decided, “We’ve got
to go with this thing and we’ ve got to go with it quickly.”
Otherwise, you would have had a weekend of specula-
tion about the speech. You would have had people who
were opposed to the substance of the speech, within the
Pentagon. It just would have been destructive to wait. On
Friday morning Marlin Fitzwater announced the President
would be giving an address at eight o’clock. Then they
contacted the networks and the networks all agreed to air it.
It really was a speech whose timing was driven by a leak.

Davidsonian: Today in the Post. David Broder has ‘sug-
gested that the President sufficiently contrast the Republi:
can party with the democrats...

Snow: That they are sufficiently partisan? That goes back
to what I was saying before, which is that the President has
no appetite for it now. I suspect what will happen, and this
is purely a guess, is that he will try to identify issues that will
enable people in Congress and the Senate to draw very sharp

Davidsonian: Is the President especially sensitive to the
criticism thathe is “out-to-lunch” on domestic policy? That
is a major concern in the papers.

Snow: Yeah, he is, and wants to talk about it more, which
is why he came up with this scheme for doing domestic
fundraising speeches. I suspect also that they’re some
rabbits in the hat.

Right now, frankly, we do not know how he wants to
handle domestic policy next year. Its pretty clear that on
domestic policy, we’ve got a series of issues and bills that
need to be addressed between now and the end of Congress.
Mostof our focusin November will be consumed by dealing
with the urgency of the moment.

I would guess that the natural point for unveiling any
new kind of domestic agenda would be the State of the
Union address in late January, and use that to go out and
promote the policies. Broder’s right, we have not drawn
sharp, partisan boundaries. But I think you’ll find, if you
look at the speeches, that there’s a lot of implicit contrast
which the candidates will be able to make use of. You see,
the key election is not for the Presidency.

Unless we really step in it, we’re going to win the Presi-
dency. The key election is for the Congress, because if there
isno pickup in House or Senate seats, he’s going to be

andahalf yearsat the Detroit News as deputy editorial
page editor and back to Washington as the editorial
page editor for pninst five years at the Washington
Times.

Davidsonian: So, how did you get here?

Unless we really step in it, we're going to win the
Presidency. The key election is for the Congress,
because if there is no pickup in the House_or
- Senate seats, he [Bush] is going to be a lame duck.

a lame duck. And that’s.a.very high price to pay.
Ronald Reagan learned this in 1984; George Bush
and his people clearly do not want to repeat that
mistake.

. Davidsonian: Are you on board for the next cam-

paign?

Snow: I got a phone call out of the blue in December
from Ed Rogers, who wasat that point the two deputy under
Sununu... had lunch with Ed and Andy Carr, Sununu’s
principal deputy... they offered me the job... we haggled for
a. couple of months... and took it.

Davidsonian: So, you actually had no contact with the
President?

Snow: No, at one point in the interview process I said, .

“Well, maybe I ought to talk to the President ,” and Sununu
began... whenever Sununu begins a sentence "with all due
respect” you learn to duck because he’s about to blow your
brains out... he said, “With all due respect, I don’t think the
President of the United States and Leader of the Free World

ought to be auditioning for you” I said,“Well,Ithinkyou’re_ .

probably right.” So we ended up doing the interview with
the President after I accepted the job.

Davidsonian: Has it been a good experience?

Snow: Its been wonderful. It has exceeded all of my
expectations. I was worried a little bit about the kind of
‘dripping dagger’ intrigue that you had in the Reagan years,
but there’s really been none of that here.

Davidsonian: What’s the difference between journalism,
even conservative journalism, and speech writing, where
there is a particular ideology you attempt to define?

Snow: Well, its not even an ideology, really. Its a set of
policies that you have to promote. You’re not writing for
yourself, you’re writing for the President, so there may be
areas in which you disagree either in approach or substance
and you take the boss’ lead.

The clear example is a number of times we have
thought the speech should be much more sharply partisan
than it turned out to be. The President says, “I don’t want to
do this, Idon’t wanit to go personally after Democrats. ” And
you act accordingly.

Davidsonian: Did the Nuclear Disarmament speech origi-
nate here (in which Bush pledged unilaterally to reduce
stockpiles in certain categories of nuclear weapons)?

“Snow: No, itdidn’t. There have only been twospeeches that

partisan lines, and after the convention next August, he will
be very partisan.

But for now, as Sununu put it to me in the past, its better
for him to be running as leader of:the Free World than as
merely someone seeking the Republican nomination ‘for
President.

Davidsonian: To what degree is the President actively
involved in producing his speeches?

Snow: The President has played a major role in a lot of
speeches, but since I’ve been here, he’s not written any,
although’ he will pay very close attention to them. For
instance, the Yale address was about China.

Wehad come in witha series of proposals about whathe
night want to say, but he said, “No, I want to talk about
China, this is how I wantit said, give me adraft tomorrow.”

Davidsonian: So, you’re very order-driven, as far as what
you write?

Snow: Yeah... but on the other hand, George Bush gives
more speeches than any other President in American his-
tory, and he is not going to give us explicit orders on every
speech.

Davidsonian: And they’re all tailored.to a different audi-
ence?

Snow:They’re alll tailored to the auuience, yeah.

Davidsonian: Does each attempt to highlight a particular
pointofpolicy?

Snow: Yeah, the general strategy we have right now with
campaign fundraisers is, give a quick litany on the high
spots of the domestic agenda. First, look back at past
triumphs: child care, clean air, etc. Then take a look at
present priorities, which would include the crime bill,
transportation, energy and education. The fact is, with the
Democratic Congress, there are plenty of things which
we’ve proposed that have gone absolutely nowhere.

‘The best example is the crime package, which has been
sitting around for more than twoand half years. So you start
with that litany, and then you focus on one issue.

Snow: Oh yeah. I don’t know exactly how they’re going to
structure speech-writing, but it-is one of my assumptions
when I took this job that I would be on the campaign trail.
The Hatch Act, which forbids political lobbying by federal
employees, does not apply to members of the speech-
writing department. 1

So, by law, we are allowed to e that kind of thing. The
irony is that for campaign expenses, the RNC (Republican
National Committee) will have to pick up the tab.

Davidsonian: Has the campaign already started? Critics
argue that the stop at the Grand Canyon was justa photo-op;
is the feel-good, morning in America kind of attitude going
to be indicative of the campaign as a whole?

Snow: No, I don’t think so. It will be issue driven and
focused on drawing very clear and compelling distinctions
between Republicans and Democrats. So, I'do not think it
will be afeel-good, morning-in-America kind of campaign.
If it is, we’re dead -- we ‘re absolutely dead. .

Davidsonian: And the people in the White House falas:
stand that? Because that’s a worry I think some conserva-
tives have, that somehow the Bush administration might
drop the ball.

Snow: Oh yeah. Conservatives tend to underrate George
Bush both as a politician and as a conservative. There’s -
always the assumption that he’s kind of reckless and he ,
doesn’t really understand all the tough challenges that lie
out there.

This is a guy who’s lost as a presidential candidate, as
wellas won. He’s someone who understands absolutely the
dangers of becoming hostage to the Democrat Congress i
his second term. George Bush learns from his ag
from the mistakes of others. I think that you’re going to find
in the next campaign that he will notbe a shrill partisan, but
he will be partisan. ie

His job will be to provide the equivalent of a nuclear:
umbrella for Congressional and Senate candidates. He is
not going torun outand say ‘Go get Senator X.’ Instead, ne
will support Republican candidates and he will provide the;
issues that allow Republican candidates to £0 to bat agaizist

Democrats,
