THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER.23, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON- Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARS WELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMER Y-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB -Associate Sports Editor
HOLTHATHAWAY-Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON -Associate Photography Editor

The Dabidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost C. ollege
Weekly”

SARAH GA YLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
m CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

GRAB FOR

I THINK ITS
TO BLACKS Lg

BRASS RI

E .

Letters

Dean Williams Responds to Smyth

Honor Council Reforms Necessary

The Honor System's effective implementation is the pride of Davidson
College. Students freely take exams without proctors, they leave their
belongings in the halls of Chambers or the Union to find them later undis-
turbed. It’s reminiscent of a brochure. Unfortunately, there are marked
flaws in the enforcement of the code which require attention.

The students of Davidson College deserve a greater knowledge of the
Honor Council and its proceedings. - At best, the council’s activities and
methods of enforcing the Honor Code are low key, at worst they are secretive
and elitist. We do not suggest the opening of every hearing to the public, nor
do we propose breaching the confidentiality of individual cases when the de-
fendant wishes to keep the matter closed. The students do not need first hand
knowledge of each case in order to feel more closely associated with the
council:-rather, they-deserve an opportunity to be informed of the decision
making process itself. As Brian Jennings suggested last spring in his essay
which outlines in greater detail the neccessity of reform (republished on
page 6), a student jury pool is the most effective means of incorporating the
student body into the process of enforcing the Honor Code.

As you can read on the back page of this issue, Honor Council Chairman
John Howell believes that the Honor Council is a “peripheral” aspect of
Davidson’s Honor System which should not be emphasized, as itis invoked
only when infractions occur. This logic suggests, and rightly, that the
essence of the Honor System lies in the conscious commitment of each
student to abide by the Honor Code.

The system denies, however, the legitimate desire of students to partici-
pate in the system. While the class representatives are elected to the council
by the students themselves, there are too few to do the job fairly and
adequately. The council is not supposed to allow precedent to influence their
decisions, yet with so few people hearing all the cases which come before
the council it is nearly impossible to strike previous experience from mind.

With a jury chosen for each case, greater impartiality is nearly guaranteed,
especially as the students would be selected fromthe student body as a whole
and thereby less likely to know the defendant personally.

In his carefully worded refutation of Jennings’ suggestions, Howell
implies that the council has enough members to handle the caseload and that
opening up the system would compromise the quality of analysis. Such
assumptions deny the potential of the students to make difficult decisions,
and dismiss as petty the concerns of those who wish to take an active role in
an institution which can have such an impact on life at the college.

The Honor System belongs to the students of the college, and, ideally, all
of us are responsible for making it work to our communal benefit. The SGA
should set up a student forum on the issue of Honor Council reforms and
propose to the college a written synthesis of the opinions there expressed and
discussed regarding possible Honor Council reforms.

)

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our |
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed. in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editor:

Recent student com-
ments in The Davidsonian
regarding the presence of
visiting faculty at Davidson
reveal a fundamental mis-
understanding of the situ-
ation. Visiting faculty are
hired annually to replace
faculty on leave from the
College. Since the College
provides faculty witha leave
every seven years, approxi-
mately one seventh (18) of
the faculty may be on leave
at any given time.

Visiting faculty are es-
sential in providing a suffi-
cient number of classes for
students and in maintaining
relatively low class enroll-
ments. They also support
the recruitment and reten-
tion of regular faculty who
expect sabbatical leaves as
part of their compensation.

The difference between
regular and visiting faculty
is notalways clear. Some of
Davidson’s best faculty be-
gan their Davidson career
on visiting appointments;
most visiting faculty go on
to“regular” appointments at
other institutions. Regular
faculty from time to time
hold visiting appointments
élsewhere. Some of our best
teaching faculty have held
brief visiting appointments
at the College, noably the
McGee Professors of Writ-
ing. In the long run, we are
all visiting.

The presence of care-
fully selected visiting fac-
ulty at Davidson provides
continuing variety in course
offerings and instruction. It
sustains the instituiton’s
long-term commitment to
support regular faculty with

sabbatical leaves. Visiting
faculty are an important and
essential part of the
Davidson College Commu-
nity. It behooves all stu-
dents to treat them With the
same respect they accord
other faculty ,andnotto make
invidious distinctions re-
garding the nature of their
appoinment, about which
students are normally unin-
formed. The fact that some
faculty are at Davidson for
briefer periods than others
should not diminish our
support for them, as teach-
ers, scholars, and members
of the community. They
enrich us by their presence
and we are grateful for their
contributions to the College.

Sincerely,
Robert C. Williams

Alumna Calls for Restraint

To the Editor:

I am writing about the
representation (or should I
say misrepresentation) of
Davidson students at the
Davidson-UNC | soccer
game. As an alumna, I was
outraged and embarrassed by
the lack of sportsmanship on
the part of a few Davidson
soccer fans who disputed

official calls by throwing
cups and other debris onto
the playing field. Not only
does this behavior show poor
sportsmanship, butitcan also
injure the players. When an
announcement was made
asking fans not to throw
items onto the field , I, tomy
horror, witnessed one stu-
dent turn around in front of

the entire crowd, shout an
expletive and make an ob-
scene hand gesture to the an-
nouncer. Davidson athletcs
need and deserve our sup-
port - support with class.
Come on, guys, if you can’t
represent Davidson better
than that, stay at home.
Sincerely,

Robbie Howell, ‘87

Students Critical of Flyers

To the Editor:

Last week a very offen-
sive flyer was distributed by
two houses on Patterson
Court to advertise a party.
While this flyer was offen-
sive to many, it was particu-
larly slanderous against the
Gay Community. Though
these two houses were, in
this particular instance,
guilty of expressing preju-
dice, they are by no means
the only ones ever culpable
of such insulting press.

It is in light of this per- -
vading sentiment on cam-
pus that we wish to address
the attitude which underlies
this flyer. The purpose of
thisarticleisnottolay blame,

See "Nichols" on page 7.

To the Editor:

This letter is written in
response toa party flyer sent
out by Sigma Alpha Epsilon
on Monday, September 9.
The flyer depicted a picture
of the SAE house with the
words “lesbians,” “geeks,”
etc. underan arrow pointing
away from the house and the
words “cool people” with an
arrow pointing towards the
SAE house. This particular
flyer implied that homosexu-
als (particulary lesbians)
were not welcome in the
house.

We, as human beings,
found the flyer offensive,
even if it was in jest, Homo-
phobia is a very large prob-
lem on this campus and the
relative lack of response to

this flyer substantiates that.
If the flier had said “All
Anglo-Saxon Protestants
this way... to SAE; every
one else the other way,”
students would have reacted
immediately.

- Wewere gratified to see
that many of the flyers were
torn down, however, a large
portion of the student body
agrees with this display of
discrimination. We truly
believe that this silence will
only perpetuate homopho-
bia at Davidson. The prob-
lem probably lies in the fear
of being labeled homosex-
ual; however, one does not
have to be homosexual to
believe in the equality of all

See "Jones" on page 7.
