10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1991

Dangerous

Michael Jackson's latest release fulfills the media-stoked expectations of popular music fans

Continued from page 9

the listener in a wasteland of com-
puter-generated percussion. And
when you flip it back over to side
one, the opener “Jam” doesn’teven
attempt a recovery. The best
moments come when Michael
abandons the drums to reveal nice
melodies and a strong vocal talent.
“Remember the Time” is long on
melody, shorton voice, while “Will
You Be There” shows both. And
this song’s use of choir arrange-

ments shows Michael’s_ willing-
ness to innovate. Unfortunately,
though, he also conforms a lot, as
with the little raps placed through-
out the record. Mediocre rappers
with superfluous words only de-
tract from the effort.

The music may account for the
album’s success, then, but there
are other factors at work as well. In
their effort to ensure mammoth
sales, Jackson’s record company

hired Norm from “Cheers” (George
Wendt), that Home Alone kid, and
Bart Simpson to appear in the video
for “Black or White”, which de-
buted simultaneously on three
networks -- MTV, BET, and Fox.
Of course, the big unveiling had to
occurrightafter Fox’s biggest show
“The Simpsons”,-and MTV could
only participate in the process if it
would present a Michael Jackson
Week leading up to it. That’s a lot

of hype.
According to rumors, though,

the PR people did not stop there. —

The video uses a computer tech-
nique to blend faces that pushed its
cost over four million dollars. Yes,
four million dollars. And MTV
had more instructions -- their
veejays had to refer to Jackson as
the King of Pop whenever they
talked about him on the air. I guess
we videoheads needed a subtle

reminder every now and then of
just how ‘big this guy really is.
That’s almost subliminal advertis-
ing, isn’t it?

Dangerous has sold a lot of
copies so far, and maybe this effort
is the reason. There has been a lot
of good talk aboutit, some of ittrue
and some contrived. Go ahead and
believe the hype, though, because
as a pop album Dangerous deffv-
ers.

How American Express
helps you cover more territory,
For less money —

Become a Student Cardmember today and
gct 3 roundtrips on Continental Airlines,
or only $129 or $189 each.

Only the American Express® Card offers an exciting travel program
exclusively for students—including three roundtrip certificates on
Continental Airlines. And much, much more.

Just look at the map and pick the place youd like to visit. If
it’s on your side of the Mississippi River, you can use a certificate
to fly for only $129* roundtrip. Or you can cross the

leave. And the maximum stay is 7 days/6 nights and must include
a Saturday night.

By becoming a Student Cardmember, you'll also enjoy other’
benefits from the American Express® Student Privileges” Program.
Such as up to 30 minutes** of MCI long-distance calling every month
for an entire year—absolutely free. And that’s just one example of
how the Card can help you save.

For just $55 a year, the Card gives you all these savings. And

it's easy to apply. ee call us (have your bank address and account

number on hand). What's more, with our special student offer, it’s

easier to get the Card now while you’ still in school than it may
ever be again.

Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.

You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—
because there are no blackout dates. But you must
make your reservations within 14 days of the day you

MCI

CALL 1-800-942:AMEX MBS conincsiat gy

If you're already a Cardmember, there’s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon. *

So get the Card. And get ready to cover new terri-
tory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

“Minneapolis/St. Paul, St. Louis and New Orleans are considered cities east of the Mississippi River.,

**A credit of up to $3.70 for calls will appear on each billing statement f 12 mont -
ment. $3.70 is equal to the. ures fora ic SO-cainove night/weekend Nat Cardcompa i-
bility call and appropriate surcharges. You must enroll for this service by December 31, 1991.

Bs <0 SOC SOIC DOSES OIISOISE...

Membership Its Privileges®

‘7

Complete terms and conditions of this travel offer will arrive with your certificates. Continental Airlines alone is responsible for fulfillment of this offer. American Express assumes no liability for Continental Aftlines’ performance, © 1991 American Express Travel Related Services Company, In¢. ~

