8 THE DAVIDSONIAN . MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1991

Inside Art

emoriam Wm. B. Hight, Jr. At the briefing our minds concentrated on the very
: sharpened pencil and the code. The man was a planner.

i *s hai In tie and jacket, starched and sweltering, the lieu
pane a5 frog's hair tenants were at the ready for the General. ot

he refined each tale id . : :
. ling. |
measured assayed The birthday troops rejoiced with the trembling a

appreciated fool’s gaol . R espect’ snot an aspect in easy reach forall.

Life’s a tall tale that vaunts a day of young |
yet cheered and checked by the self-same sky |
holds in perfection but a litte moment. ve

InM

In the beginning was the voice over
matter whose stones sprang golden warriors.

The apprentice magicked stumbling into competent
built toward the master class.

Perfection liked Hight. Hight joined the Bard’s stories and verse
and could expand or be terse.
h ice arise? ?
Where does a voice arise? Out of what clay The sky was his oyster.

He taught not to fly by smoked mirrors.
This dross was magicked to sterner stuff
because if you drop your guard

in our profession as in the cloth’s

He’s in the midst of life in a single room.

A man breaks into laughter pulled down by contraptions.
Pulled down by contraptions breaks a man into laughter.
We gathered life by him and rejoiced with trembling.

the lie flies. The lie flies

flits unlike a moth not in the flame
but checkered on unclipped wings.
We pedagogues of sham and mirror
teach by smoke and error.

In Egypt he and the sphinx swapped riddles, maybe smoked camel’s
dung. He could riddle a yarn. He could keep a secret

and the boy in him for suprises that carried

firecrackers and a snake in the pocket. When he uncovered the turkey
you never knew for sure what was flying.

This man had a nose for the bogus
which came from love of the Logos.
No logos ever came of the bogus.
The world’s gone lilliput.

Thunder is good, thunder is impressive--with Mark,
who no less than our pal fit not neat into metrical feet,
he opined it’s lightning does the work.

He delivered the telling remark.

A voice like every whorl is tuned. Like Sam and like Will, the Twain,

Atan old radio face we listen when the day’s gone asleep. Bill enjoyed laugh
It’s dark aside, lights out on our street. M ooh place

ae u :
Ahush the ballroom dances in big band sound. with the confidence of a Christian with four ace. "
But the strutters can’t hear it nor the fretters, |
The world’s gonc lilliput.
At wendy city where mcndacity’s at the ready
projectors build for a day.

Some things won’t bend to kindness.

Alien as a goat’s the gotch eye stunts the squint kills
the straight facts

the fast and louche elide.

The great bland countenances

as if for the world to worship and the mighty despai Bend geometry and call it Einstein. oo °
chumpdome. P By ESPEN The seats of the scornful fill quickly.
If it’s not worth doing it’s not worth doing well. Who stands in the judgment? Mer ™,

The seats of the scornful are orchestra
In those days he descried the works of the mighty with . \
out despair, made straight the way, and toads swell the music.
prepared a school, kept the traffic moving The house lights are hushed. «9s ; i:
with automatic shift he knew the way to the egress. . The Sky Does Not Fall For A Lie oy
When launched his ships floated. His colosseums still fill. is the show. It’s Our Town. >
Who held the rain? In those days there were His was a rich pasture under ample heavens. ft
no doubts. Under strict generosity the jocund land The ungodly are not so. _ z
prospered cornucopic: Holy Moses goes the limit
Where the leaders rejoice with trembling the people prosper. 1 but knows the limit, .
Our lot was full. Pastures run by the rivers of water
Ceasar lifted the field __ and rejoice with trembling. The wind blows
glasses to the arts of teachers, July experienced, learning loved. Song goes on In other VOICES. . 7
For him the A-team was ready to cross the Alps. Fresh runners will carry the torch to the Promised Land.
He thought tall and like Hannibal preferred it He knew how to roll the stone away
when a plan came together. -L and whose help he needed to do it. _

--Gill Holland

Due to the lack of space, the editors of Hobart Park are presently offering consolation to
some submissions not appearing in the latest issue. Copies of Hobart Park are now available in
the form of a free standing stack on the counter in the Union lobby. The submission deadline for

the Next issue will be right after spring break. ***Submissions to Inside Art may be deposited at Rod
the Union Desk.***
You bumed my name
ee into a wooden heart
painted red
like the sun at
dream often of all things real and divine; that evening. ausk
warmly remember T hung the heart
that which makes you treasure at the head of my bed
turtles lying on logs in the sun. and wondered--
(love) Did I love you enough
to burn my name
and never forget into yours?
that sometimes even old men
skip through dandelions Molly Yarbrough
Chris Pace

Photo By Tim Dancy
