THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991 15

Wrestlers Fall

To Camels,

By Matt Johnes

In this last week’s Mid-South
tournament, Davidson wrestlers
had it going their way until the
semifinals of the wrestle-back.
Then it turned sour, but not before
the ‘Cats had turned in an impres-
sive performance.

The double elimination tour-
nament, held in Johnson City, TN
featured a 10-team field, including
squads from The Citadel, Furman,
and Carson-Newman.

The wrestle-back is essentially
the losers’ bracket of the tourna-
ment, and decides the third and
fourth place finishers. Of the nine
Wildcats who attended the tourna-
ment, seven made it to the semifi-
nals of the wrestle-back.

The round turned out to be a
tough one for the ‘Cats, with only
senior co-captain Joe Binns ad-

Devils

vancing. His victory gave him a
3rd place finish in the 150 pound
class. Said head coach Tom Oddo,
“Putting seven wrestlers into the
semifinals of the wrestle-back was
pretty good in itself: We’ ve never
had that many guys make it that
far. But the semifinal round turned
into a nightmare. We started drop-

» ping like flies.”

The ‘Cats returned home this
week to face Campbell and Duke.
Against the Camels on Tuesday
night, junior Scott Townsend pro-
vided the only cause for celebra-
tion in a 31-15 defeat. Townsend,
wrestling in the 177 pound weight
class, recorded a first period pin of
his Campbell opponent. Unfortu-
nately, against Duke Saturday af-
ternoon, there was no such conso-
lation. The powerful Blue Devils
shut out do) ‘Cats.

Photo By Chris Lee

"Yes, love calculus"

Freshmen SarahBerry affectionately displays the textbook of her favorite subject while colleague
Kathy Ayers diligently studies. Weather at Davidson has been unusually warm. Several students are
now taking their work outside.

‘DAVIDSON OUTDOOR
SPRING BREAK 1991

“EVERGLADES CANOE EXPEDITION
MARCH 23-30

f

The tradition of this great trip pontine! Join Davidson Outdoors for a week of
wilderness canoeing in the Ten Thousand Islands of the Gulf of Mexico. This maze of
_mangrove jungle has tropical vegetation, an abundance of birdlife, and perhaps a
manatee willswim by our boats! A great spring break value at $175.00. This tripis sure

to fill mp fast. There are ly, 10 Space available, so sign up now at the UNION DESK. :

: Ase _NATAHA LA MOUNTAINFEST

le Sees
:

MARCH 23-30

Join Davidson Ourdones for a week of as canoeing and mountain biking j in
the Nantahala National Forest of North Carolina. The week will start out witha 3 day
whitewater canoe clinic taught by. expert guides from the Nantahal Outdoor Center.
You willlearn all the skills needed to navigate your way through exciting river rapids!
After becoming certified river rats: your intrepid group of explorers will depart for a
3 day mountain bike trip on the trails on the Nantahala area. Davidson Outdoors and
Nantahala Outdoor Center will provide all food, equipment, and transportation with
the exception of mountain bikes. You will need to provide your own bike. An

incredible bargain at $175.00. This trip is is sure to fill up fast so drop is the UNION
DESK and signup now!

