12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1991

THE B

ACK PAGE INTERVIEW

4

With Ambassador Jack Perry, Director of the Dean Rusk Program for International Studies

_ By John Patton

Events in the Soviet Union are moving with astonishing
speed. After 75 years of monolithic Communist rule, there
is radical change in the air. What does it mean? No one
knows precisely but Ambassador Jack Perry, director of the
Dean Rusk Program and a specialist in Soviet and East
European affairs for the last forty years offered his insights
on the coup and some of its possible ramifications.

Davidsonian: Whatare your observations about the coup?

Perry: Many people foresaw the coup. I always said that
ifithappens it’s going to be done with great brutality and it’s
going to work, so when this coup happened I didn’t have any
doubt that it would work because that is the way things go
in the Soviet Union. ;

Then I began to hear people like Dimitri Simes say that
it's not going to work and I realized that they (the coup
leaders) weren’t closing off television and the army wasn’t
really occupying anything except parts of Moscow and
finally Yeltsin was making speeches and they didn’t have
the sense to arrest him and I say,
well, this isn’t the kind of coup we
were talking about.

Davidsonian: One major ques-
tion on everyone’s mind is what's
going to happen now. What do
you think the future holds in store
for the USSR?

Perry: Well, the future of the
Union is the biggest single ques-
tion now, and Ihave to believe that
these events have helped the forces
that are trying to pull away from
the center. They have helped the
forces within the loyalist group of
republics, led by Yeltsin, because
he was the great hero. No one.is
going to say no to him when he
says to the center that the republics
must control the money and taxes
and decide how much to give the
center.

However, the six that did not
want tot sign the Union treaty, the

any future in the USSR?

Perry: All the major leaders -- Yeltsin, Yakovlev, Shevard-
nadze, Nazarbaev and now. finally Gorbachev--have quit
the party. The liberals clearly feel that the CPSU has had its
day and there’s also a lot of hatred over what the Party has
done the the people over the last 75 years.

On the other hand, a lot of people don’t feel that way.
Probably a third of the population are sort of proud of the
party and its history. They may not be the most enlightened
people in the Union, but you know they are people too, and
I’m notso.sure they want to see the Party dissolved. In fact;
I know that the Apparachiks and bureaucrats that have there
livelyhood depend on the CPSU don’t want it to dissolve,
and therefore I don’t think it will just fade away.

What the last few days events have done is both dramati-
cally weaken the Party as a powerful force and sharpened
the conflict between society and the Party , so the future of
the party is much more in question than it was.

Davidsonian: The future of the Party and the country as a

Baltic States, Georgia, Moldova
and possibly Armenia, have been
helped by this in their striving for independence. The Baltic
States, especially. I think really mean it when they say
‘look, we want out.’ Even President Bush has finally said
something in support of that, and I believe there will be great
pressure on Gorbachev to let them go and to form a new,
smaller Union.

Davidsonian: That brings up a good point - who now is in
the position to make these kinds of decisions, or maybe a
better question, who’s in charge, Yeltsin or Gorbachev?

Perry: Clearly, Yeltsin got a big-boost not only in Russia
butall over the Soviet Union; in fact he is the popular hero.
Gorbachev, on the other hand is not a hero, and he was
already terribly unpopular. I heard George Kennan last
night and I thought he was very good when he said, ‘Gor-
bachev has done these profoundly important things, but
probably his moment in time is ending because there is not
too much more he can accomplish. Therefore some other
different people are going to have to come on the scene. ‘I
think Kennan is right, but I don’t think that we will see
Gorbachev just resign and fade away.
Over the next several years, if the Union does become
“ alooser federation of sorts, the republics become more im-
portant, and if the Presidency in the USSR moves towards
apopulary elected one, we might well get someone besides
Gorbachev. His day may be ending.

Davidsonian: Recent events have cast what appears to be
some very dark shadows on the future of the Communist
Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). Does Communism have

whole is now more uncertain than ever. What can the U.S.
and the West in general do to help the forces of democracy
in the USSR?

Perry: The proper American role is such a heartbreaking
subject because we are almost in a Presidential year, and
what with the deficits and the American recession, I don’t
think we can expect President Bush to stand-up and say that
we are going to give the Soviet Union a lot of aid. don’t
think he’ll say it and, frankly, I don’t think the American
people would support it.

Let’s admit then that we probably aren’t going to do
much more in the physical sense for the Soviets than we’ve
already done; But it also seems to me that the President
could be more forthcoming about aid to the Soviets and say
we should do everything we can to help these people:
volunteering to help, encouraging corporations to invest, et
cetera. Wecan no longer take the deep-pocket approach and
give a lot of aid - probably none, in fact - but we need to do
more. We need to help morale because with winter coming
on it is going to be very difficult. We need to demonstrate
more our willingness to support the people of the Soviet
Union. .

Davidsonian: Keeping on the topic of international rela-
tions, last week there was a great deal of uncertainty sur-
rounding the Middle East Peace Conference. Will the new
situation in the USSR have any affect on it?

Perry: The thing about the Middle East Peace Conference
is that a lot of people have reasons for being reluctant to go

to it. Mr. Shamir, especially, has agreed to go, but I don’t
think he’s leaping for joy about it. I think there a number of
others who, while they have reasons to go, have reasons for
not going as well. Therefore they were quick to jump on any
excuse, which this coup happened to provide, to put the con-
ference off until next year.

The fact is that the U.S. has been forcing the countries
in the Middle East to come to the table. We have invited the
Soviets to be co-hosts because that’s the tradition in the
Middle East peace process system and for a while the
USSR’s role was in question, but now that things are back
on track the dissenters in the Middle East will have to find
new excuses to put the conference off.

Davidsonian: That brings upanother question that directly
affects the U.S. and that is what is the USSR’s role in inter-
national affairs?

Perry: I think the coup provided some insights on their role
inthe international scene simply by looking at what worried
us the most. We started worrying about who had their hand

/ onthe nuclear trigger and whether
any tension would cause prob-
lems. The second was "what if
these army types take over and
they decide to get truculentagain
- what might they do?”

The key there was Eastern Eu-

rope because the East Europeans
said ‘we’renervous.’ They don’t
havea Warsaw Pactanymore that
ties them to the USSR, but they
also arent part of NATO go who
would protect them if the Soviets
decided to put some troops into
Czechoslovakia. ‘Thirdly, ' the
PLO and Saddam Hussein said
‘hey great, now we’ve got a
better government-in there so
somebody will support us’ - I
think the Soviets, with a bad gov-
ernment, could really create some
havoc in the Middle East and
elsewhere. The question is, re-
ally, as I heard someone say
yesterday, will they be a nice or
mean but weaker?
With Gorbachev, they’ve become
almost de facto partners in inter-
national affairs, and at times even allies, and think theirrole
isstill clearly a large one as illustrated by our fears last week.
They still have a nuclear potential and a sixth of the world’s
land mass, as well as an historical place in the world which
still includes a permanent seat on the UN security council.
Their role isto be one of the powers that helps determine the
course of world events, and if they are governed by people
with good intentions who want something from the West,
then we hope they will play a positive role on the interna-
tional scene.

Davidsonian: There have been some incredible things

happening, as we all know, in the USSR. What are your.”

feelings about the situation today - what makes it so-amaz-
ing? Z

Perry: As an old Soviet watcher, I started studying Russian
in 1951 when Stalin wasstillalive, and I saw him lying next
to Lenin in the Mausoleum in 1959. I justremember the bad’
old days so vividly that Stalinism to me, since I’m 61, isnot
an historical phenomenon - I watched itand grew up with it.
Life was so unbearably bad that it’s hard to talk about it
without weeping. These people that tried to take over
wanted to go back to something like the old days - maybe
I’m being a little hard on them but they clearly wanted to
turn back the clock.
What isabsolutely exhilarating is to see the Russians get
out on the streets and turn these people back, rally around

Yeltsin, and stand-up to the tanks; tosee the Russianlovefor _

freedom which is a Russian love as much as it is anyone's
triumph is just amazing.

\
