10

THE DAVIDSONIAN' CAMPUS LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 8, 1991

The Incredible E

F Well-Bein

Weightlifting

By Marlo Cobb
Workout routines differ in-
credibly among weightlifters. It
may take three months before you
begin to find out what works for

you. Starting out, do pushups,
pull-ups, and crunches. That’s all.
No weights. Give your body time
to get accustomed to the move-
ments and gain some muscle be-
fore hitting it with the heavy stuff.
Remember that any exercise is
going to be harder starting out,
even if you have been serious about
it before and have simply taken
time off. The secondary, or periph-
eral muscles which are not directly
worked will get stronger rather
‘juickly, and begin.to help out the
muscles they’re supposed to.
After the first 6 weeks, you
will seea lot of improvement. This
is when weightlifting becomes

disillusioning, because noticeable
results decrease as you getin better
shape. Keep your exercise routine
changing--enough so that you do
not have time to really get “used
to” an exercise. Warm up prop-
erly. For example, if you’re going
running one day, afterwards go
into the weightroom and only work
on legs; theyll be very warmed up
already.

The average weightlifter
knows most of the basics: to bulk
up, use few repetitions (“reps”)
with heavy weight. To tone up, use
many reps with light weight. The
speed at which weight can be ad-
vanced will vary from person to
person. Sometimes changes in
weight will be days apart, and
sometimes weeks. You will be
weaker before you are stronger;
weightlifting first tears down thin
layers of muscle, allowing other
layers of muscle to be built.

Remember, you need to rest.
There is no need to work out as
many as three times a week, espe-
cially here at Davidson. Anyone
will need one day of rest between
one abs (or “abdomenals”) or leg
workout, and some people need
two days of rest before concentrat-
ing on the same muscle groups
again. Alternate weight room

workouts with other sports like
basketball, racquetball, tennis...

Not only does incorporating
aerobic exercisealleviate boredom,
but it is necessary, along with
proper diet, if you really want to
see results. A serious weightlifter’s
dietconsists of 60% carbohydrates,
30% protein, and only 10% fat.
Stock up on fruits and vegetables.
You will progress much slower
without eating right and attending
to your cardiovascular system. And
“love handles,” usually due to
genetics, are reduced more through
aerobic exercise than through lift-
ing.

During breaks, watch out. Itis
easy to overeat or fall out of your
routine. Always try to maintain
some kind of regularity in sleeping
and eating patterns, and keep up
physical activity on a daily basis,
even if it’s only an after-dinner
walk.

One of my sources said, “The
average weightlifter is really lazy.”
According to him, men lift weights
for one of two reasons: either they
are athletes, in which case they are
building up specific muscles re-
quired for their sport, or they want
tolook good. The athletes, he says,
tend tostick to the basic squats.and
bench press, doing nét much moré
than the essentials for their sport.

Those who just want to look
good usually focus their attention
on the chest, arms and shoulders,

and forget about working their legs.
They need to realize how abnor-
mal this will make them look later
on; they may find themselves with
a huge upper body and spindly
legs, or with large chest and shoul-
der muscles, and hardly any arm
mass at all.

Both of my sources agreed that,
although many more men tend to
lift weights than women, those
women who do are “much more
devoted, know whatthey are doing
and are diligent about it” than the
guys. They also flex less.

While one guy I talked with
feltthat seeing and being impressed
by another’s build can motivate
you to get in there and work, your-
self, and that flexing helps you to
build confidence and get into the
atmosphere of the weight room,
another source points out that guys
in the weight room tend to “spend
a lot more time talking to each
other, staring in the mirror, and
flexing than putting up any kind of
weight.”

“People should definitely
know a lot more about lifting
weights than they do,” says one

There are lots of details about
each exercise that are worth re-
membering.

Forexample, in standing curls
with a barbell, holding it towards
your thumb creates much better
leverage than holding it towards

Learn To Become A (Snort!) Changer Of Tires

By Ken Lane

It’s just you and the highway.
You’re cruising along the wide
open road ata ripe 76 mph, feeling
the monotony of your journey set
in when... Blam! There goes a
tire. After the melodrama of get-
ting the car safely off the road
intact and the help sign right side
up, you sigh a breath of relief. But,
you sigh too soon!

After 20 minutes of learning
that people generally don’t stop to
help anyone who is in trouble on
highways (especially someone who
looks like you) unless they are are-
cently escaped from prison, one-
eyed rhino-man straight out of The
Silence of the Lambs. Y our choices:
(1) live in the car forever, (2) wait
until rhino-man stops and tries to
introduce you to his good friend
the serrated, salt-smeared razor-
blade, (3) take up long distance
hiking, or (4) (God forbid) change
the tire yourself. Anyone who al-
ready knows how to change a tire
can snort-laugh, flex his or her
feminine or masculine muscles and
gorebuild acarburetor blindfolded.

on.

tell you a very important piece of
information. Where to place the
jack so that the your car and the
odd limb that happens to be under
the car won’t be destroyed. If one
or two tons of car falls suddenly
you will be “hatin’ life in a big
way.”

Positioning the jack is VERY
important. Itgenerally goes, as you
would expect, near the flat, but
exactly where varies from car to
car. Also for safety, the car should
be reasonably level (again to
circumventthe “destroyed car/limb
problem”), Make SURE your
emergency brake is ON, very on. If
not you will be screwed, very
screwed.

Now open your trunk and find
those two mystical pieces of equip-
ment: the tire iron and the jack
(angels sing). Jacks come in a
variety of shapes and sizes, and
should be described in your Car
Owner’s Manual. A common one
for smallercars isa nifty, compact,
screw thread jack. Use your com-
mon sense about which end is up

entist/genius mind of yours to fig-
ure out how to fit them together so
they will lift your car.

Huff and puff away at that jack
until the tire just clears the ground
and then LOWER it back down an
inch or so. You are trying to make
sure the tire doesn’t spin and the
car doesn’t fall (“car/limb prob-
lem’’) while you violently yank on
the nuts holding your tire on.

The tire ironis generally abent
rod with a cup on one end that
contains the impression of a hex-
agonal lug nut, OR a huge; heavy
plus sign. Now, if you have a hub
cap, remove it. Generally, they
yank off with a little sweat, but
some come off only with a special
key (PRAY that it is in your trunk
or glove compartment). The ex-
posed lug nuts are the several
hexagonal objects that hold your
tire in place and are your next point
of attack.

Fit the tire iron over one of the
nuts and try to unscrew them,
counter-clockwise. Envision re-
moving a peanut butter jar lid to

the end opposite. my hand on the
plus shaped kind for extra lever-
age. Remembering to use your foot
may mean the difference between
a failed heroic effort and success.
Try it. If---no, when!---you suc-
ceed, ONLY LOOSEN each of the
lug nuts.

Next, crank that jack upenough
so you can imagine getting the tire
to slide off easily. Remove the lug
nuts the rest of the way using tire
iron and/or fingers.

Remove that tire. As you beam
sweatily and triumphantly at the
car, realize that if someone jumps
into or jokingly shakes the car, the
“car/limb-_problem” is much more
likely to occurnow. Check to make
sure that jack is VERTICAL. If it
slips, you again will be “hatin’ life
in a big way.”

Now, put your spare on. Most
new Cars have a smaller spare tire
specially designed to force you to
buy lots of tires and mostly to
annoy you, but they will get you to
the next service station. Don’t drive
very far on one of these! They

your fingers. The mere setting of
the bar in your hand makes a huge
difference in the way this exercise
affects you. ;

_ Even twisting your head a
certain way affects the rest of your
body. On the bench press, holding
your hands close together on the
bar works an entirely different set
of muscles than holding them
shoulder width apart. Also, differ-
ent body types perform the same
exercise with varied difficulty. For
example, it is easier for a stocky

~ person to do deeper squats than a

lanky one due to shorter legs. Lanky
people have better leverage on
other exercises, however.

Most people don’teven needa
weight belt, but they should know
what it’s for if they do wear one.
During heavy squats, a weight belt
forces you to use your legs and not
your back to lift, but watching your
posture will take care of this prob-
lem in other situations.

Don’t arch on the bench --
alwayskeep your lowerbackdown.
When curling, never throw your
hips forward to lift the weights.

p

Ask around:

In the weight room, people
are almost always willing to an-
swer your questions. It gives them
confidence, and helps you out in
the long run.

Lower the jack until the tire
touches the ground again and yank
them all TIGHT. If your lug nuts
are loose or still on the ground
when you drive off, it will be time
to pay for BIG repairs really soon.
Hopefully, you have a drivable car
now. Remember as you drive off
into the sunset that if you have an
evilandannoying micro-spare, you
should drive straight to a service
station (and wait overnight if nec-
essary) unless you don’ tmindrisk-
ing limb and car to drive on.

To review, you must (1) use
the correct jack lifting position, (2)
put on the emergency brake, (3)
not shake the car when itis up, and
(4) watch that jack. Actually, the
most important thing to'\do while
you change your tire is think.
Mindlessly following instructions
can lead to disaster. Look atthe car
and jack often. Is it leaning, shift-

- ing, or bending?

Think ahead. Imagine what will
happen as a result of each action.
(Whoops, I guess I forgot the lug
nuts.)

and what you should turn or push. figure out the correct direction to _ generally self-destruct so that you Also, don’t be daunted. Half of
Anyone whoisstillinterested,read _ to cause lifting. pull (it is very frustrating to yank willhavetobuyanewspare AND what is described here is worst
Sometimes an extra handle or on the lug nuts the wrong way for _ a full-sized tire (insidious-rubber _ case scenario. If you think, think
First, find the flat. That’seasy. lever has to be used to give youthe 20 minutes). Try pulling alittle to company plot?). Anyhow, slide ahead, and just be careful; every-
Now, open your glove compart- leverage toheftyourcar.Lookfor getafeelforthem.Jalwaysputmy your new tire on (normal size or _ thing will work out fine, and you
ment and pull out that all-impor- other parts that come with the jack foot on the part of the tire iron small/annoyingsize)andspinthose _ will be snort-laughing with the rest
tant Car Owner’s Manual. It will and use that Davidson/rocket sci- closestto the cupasapivotORon lug nuts back on by hand. of the fabled Changers of Tires.
which he said was passable. I or- beach. forty dollars. The building is brand
3 q dereda slice of Chocolate Cheese- © The menu has something for newandhasalargeroom forcater-
D ad dy S cake which turned out to be pretty everyone, from hamburgers and _ ing large parties. For information fs) rti P t | ;
good. The service wasfine upuntil steak to a variety of fresh seafood. _ or reservations, call 663-4242. a icipa ein
continued from Page 9 this point when they totally forgot The prices were reasonable for Solid re, rity
to ask if we wanted coffee. Other seafood, ranging from a few dol- On a scale of one to five stars, :
spice. Whatever you choose, be thanthat,everything wasextremely _lars for a sandwich to $24.95 for onebeing McDonald’sand Tavern Week!
sure to bring your appetite. enjoyable. The comfortable, fam- _ the steak and lobster. Our entrees _ on the Green as five, we rate Big
“To finish up, Wilson got a ily atmosphere and ocean fare ‘were in the ten to fifteen dollar Daddy’sRestaurantand Oyster Bar
] reminds one of a vacation at the range and the total bill was about 33/4 stars.

wedge of Mississippi Mud Pie,

