6 . THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
e bd TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
The BDabidsonian PETER FISHER- Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
= JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB.-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY-Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON Associate Photography Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

ANDREW SPAINHOUR-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

Now That’s Funny

Looking for a little high-brow, insightful humor to start your morning?
In the mood for some brilliant social commentary presented by some of the
sharpest wits in the broadcasting industry? Stick with NPR. If you’re feeling
like a boorish fool whose every movement results from some base quiver in
the medulla oblongata or the groin, then Mark McGuffin and Matt Clarke of
WCNT 1480 AM are your kind of news-talk show hosts.

When, on the morning of Monday, October 14, senior Elizabeth Mitchell
represented Reach Out (formerly the YSSC) as a guest on their radio show,
Clarke and McGuffin treated her with such contempt and disrespect that
their irretrievable inanity was revealed for the entire audience (however
minimal). With abusive flippancy the pair insulted the homeless, Mitchell,
Reach Out, Davidson et alia ad nauseam.

Clarke & McGuffin have the right to express their opinions, and they
have the privilege to do so on the radio. Their methods of expression are so
thoughtless and riddled with erroneous assumptions about the homeless,
however, that the pair seem to most thinking people to be fascinating
specimens of talking chimps. Unfortunately, Clarke & McGuffin don’t
want a thinking audience. They are desperately and deliberately attempting
to appeal to the angry, the stupid, and the mean with their brand of
commentary. How sad. Instead of providing insight in their banter, the two
seek only the cheap laugh and the fast buck which accompanies it.

’ We do not assault these bastions of banality for insulting Davidson
students. The idea of a sleep-out on the Chambers lawn was a bit idealistic.
We express our disdain for the hosts’ advocation of violence against the
homeless. See page 4 of this issue for a transcript of the interview.

The Davidsonian joins with Reach Out in asking the Davidson commu-
nity to boycott 1480 AM WCNT and its advertisers. (We’ll be publishing a
list of the major accounts in our next issue.)

Oh, by the way, when we spoke to John Woodstock, the General Manager
of WCNT, he told us that McGuffin & Clarke are not likely to hold their jobs
very long as a result of several complaints in the past. Perhaps if the talk-
show hosts run out of unemployment benefits, their perspectives on poverty
and homelessness will change. Hopefully such drastic measures will prove
unnecessary, and the weasels in question will learn a little something about
sensitivity on their own. P

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright) is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

Letters

Mount Urges Involvement

To the Editor:

Wednesday night wasan
important one in the life of
our campus. Twenty-two
people slept out on Cham-
bers Lawn to raise aware-
ness for and shew acommit-
ment and responsibility to
the plight of homeless people
all over the nation. At the
midnight vigil, almost forty
faculty and staff members
and students joined together
to hear readings and then
talk about their experiences
and their feelings about
homeless people. In the face
of the overwhelming hous-
ing shortage and rising
numbers of poor families in
the United States, this small
gathering became incredibly
important for our campus
and for awareness of home-
lessness everywhere.

Students who passed by
would stop and talk or ask
what we were doing. It
seemed that the students who
passed by didn’t want to

leave. The sense of realness
to what we were doing was
very powerful. Some would
wonder whether they should
just stay and sleep out and
some did decide to stay.
Staying one, two or even
three nights outside with a
little bit of drizzle to con-
tend with is, as a counselor
at the Uptown Homeless
Shelter said, only ateaspoon
while homeless people con-
tend‘ with ‘a whole glass.
While each of us could have
retumed to our dorm room
to a warm bed, homeless
people cannot. Part of the
sleep-out involved recogniz-
ing this. Getting up wet from
the rain with only theclothes
on your back and then strug-
gling to go find a job for
which you do not have the
education and then looking
for your next meal day in
and day outis the way of life
for the homeless. To recog-
nize this must be to take on
your responsibility in it. To

identify with it is to begin
fighting it. Take action po-
litically; protest Bush’s veto
of the jobless bill. Work so
that funding for low-cost
housing is notcut even more
in the nineties after the 80%
cuts housing received in the
80’s under Reagan. Locally,
come to work on Habitat for
Humanity houses for fami-
lies in our own community.
Go help refurbish the Ada
Jenkins school and transform
it into a Family and Career
Services Center so that chil-
dren in this community will
develop ambitions, get edu-
cation, and know how_to
make their ambitions hap-
pen. And, finally, work be-
side each other and together,
just as the twenty-two on
Wednesday night slept be-
side each other and together.
Together our small contri-
butions become larger and
larger.

Sincerely,

Mary Faith Mount

"Into the Streets" a Success

To the Editor:

We would like to pub-
licly thank everyone who
helped make our “Into the
Streets” week so successful.
The purpose of the week, to
raise awareness, was defi-
nitely achieved. We really
appreciate all the publicity
we received in The
Davidsonian and some of the
Charlotte media.

Anyone who has heard
about the WCNT 1480am
radio broadcast of October
14, we encourage to boycott
the station. We have sent

them a letter expressing our
disappointment and anger
over how they handled the
issue of homelessness and
their impressions’ of
Davidson College. Fortu-
nately, we think this radio
broadcast worked to help us
raise consciousness and get
more people involved.

It would be impossible
for us to individually thank
everyone who helped make
the week such asuccess. The
people who helped organize
and those who got involved
should all be applauded.

We hope this is only the
first step to a greater com-
mitment ‘to service at
Davidson. Yet it will not be
a complete success unless
we are willing to go out and
make a difference in our
community. Remember to
go into the streets! Thank
you.

Sincerely,

Kathy Beach
Caroline Nelson
Mary Faith Mount
Carla Badgett
Beth Mitchell
Chris Moeling

Another "Fan Letter" From Ist East

To the Editor:

We are avid fans of the
weekly column “Sexuality
and Health.” While some
mightdenounce Ms. Blaise’s
writings as tasteless trivia,
we take strong offense at
such beliefs, A case in point
is. the recent article “New
Male. Contraceptives. . .”
Has ever an issue of such
immediate relevance been

| addressed as this: possible

forms of male contraception

for the 21st century?

We also enjoy such
subjects as pubic crabs and
genital warts. In fact, we
like nothing better than to
study her weekly wonders
over dinner, Though we are
grateful to her in so many
immeasurable ways, the
parental factor is the source
of our greatest thanks, As
freshmen, we have often
worried about how we might
rid Mom and Dad of the false

belief that we retain tact and
taste as college students.
Oma has solved this prob-
lem beautifully.

Also, would it be pos-
sible that she address bisex-
ual necrophiliacs. with a
penchant for bestiality?

Anxious for More,

Jonathan Peters, Jackson
Smith, Jim Shumadine,
Derek, Slayton, Jim
McElmurray, and Scott Hile
