THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1991 7

Davidson ,

rts

Unique Davidson Theater Course
Culminates "At The Balagan"

By Rick-Figlio
Courtesy of College Relations

Davidson College will be the
site ofa highly provocative experi-
ment in theater next week. “At
The Balagan: Personal Accounts”
promises to be a unique and ex-
traordinary theatrical experience,
introducing the Davidsoncommu-
nity to the world of the “Theater of
Cruelty.”

Presented by visiting profes- .

sorRafael Lopez-Bartantes andhis
“Language, Voice, and Drama”
class, the four performances
Wednesday through Saturday
nights, Nov. 20-23, at 8. p.m. will
be interwoven selections of en-
semble and individual work,

The nine students in the course
have been working with Lopez-
Barrantes during class periods since
the beginning of the semester to
prepare for the performance.
Shows will be in the Workshop
Theatre of Hodson Hall and ad-
mission is $3.

Lopez-Barrantes and his class
want to make it clear that “At the
Balagan” strays greatly from con-

ventional forms of theatre. This ’

performance refutes the standard

Movie Review:

Stanislavski-style character, plot,
and theme production and instead
follows the metaphysical path
proposed by the proponents of the
Theater of Cruelty, Antoine Ar-
taud and Peter Brooks. Davidson
senior Jim Leesch, an actor in the
play, says, “Barrantes forced us to
take everything we felt comfort-
able with (in theatre) and immedi-
ately chuck it out the window.”

The structure of the presenta-
tion includes solo appearances by
all nine students, each a few min-
utes long. Their solos display
unusual training in movement and
vocal techniques.

Thesource ofeach performer’s
‘motion and gesture is a personal
“physical vocabulary,” of which
each “word” is a “‘photogram” -a
body movement based on an emo-
tional response |to a_ particular
memory, key work, picture or piece
of music.

The actual texts are chosen by
the performers themselves to con-
vey a.personal message to the
audience, As such, they represent
a diverse base of thought, includ-
ing the words of Goethe, Jose
Martin, T.S. Eliot, Marvin Gaye,

and theneo-pop band Camper Van
Beethoven. There are also several
choreographed appearances by the
entire ensemble involving both
comic and eerie combinations of
dance, rhthms and vocals.

The diversity of sound the
performersemploy, from whispers
to screams to choral song, is im-
portant to the vitality of the per-
formance. The group explored and
incorporated various regions and
qualities of sound associated with
each performer, an integral facet
of Lopez-Barrantes’ progressive
style. Leesch commented, “The
result is something more than vi-
tal. It has four thousand times the
energy ofanything you’ lleversee.”

Although the acutal dialogue
of the performance willbe in Span-
ish, German, and French as wellas
English, Lopez-Barrantes’ doesnot
think this will present a problem
for an anglocentric audience. He
said, “The presentation is sort of a
didactic activity, butitis addressed
notso much to the intellectas to the
stream’ of conciousness, the emo-
tional intellect.”’ a

See " Balagan" on page 8

Foster Makes A Mediocre
Debut With Little Man Tate

By Will Montgomery
A few weeks ago Time Maga-
zine devoted the cover story to

Jody Foster, highlighting the matu-

ration of Hollywood’s longtime
star child (Taxi Driver), Foster’s
recent performance in Silence of
the Lambs as a tough but sexy FBI
investigator seemed to herald the
arrival ofanew presence in Ameri-
can cinema. Foster’s first step
behind the camera as director of
LittleManTate, unfortunately falls
~ short of these expectations.

The basic problem is a bogus
storyline. Foster acts in the movie
as well, playing the mother of a
child prodigy. The director of a

CD Review:

private institute for the gifted, also
a woman, finds out about her son.

Much of the dramatic energy
of the movie revolves around the
tension between Tate’s natural
mother, the crass, street-smart, and
poor Foster with Tate’s surrogate
‘mother/mentor, the hyper-organ-
ized, anal-retentive, upper-class,
cultured “intellectual”.

There is a wealth of subject
matter in the Landed Gentry Re-
aganite meets Single Mother on
Welfare story, but unfortunately
this potential critique of class

_ conflict falls flat through obvious

overstatement and bad acting on
Foster’s part. Her fake New Jersey

accent is horrendous.

In some areas the movie. is
successful, especially in its treat-
ment of the pressure exerted on
“children to grow up fast and to
perform. In one excellent scene
thedirector of the institute for gifted
children and her nerdy sidekick
review Slides of potential students
in a dark, secretive room. —

The scene subtly parodies the
college application process, oreven
sports recruitment. “Jimmy. Age
8. Speaks five languages, concert
level pianist. Susan. Age 9. Sec-
ond volume of feminist poetry just

"See "Tate” on page 8

The Pixies Trompe Le M onde :
Therapy for Stressed-Students

By Josh Larned:

On saturday afternoon, I was
sitting in my room sadly contem-
plating the immense load of work
that I have before Christmas (as
I’m sure you all do as well). My
worries were instantly alleviated
however, when I popped in the
new Pixies CDandlistened to it for

the first time. Ethereal yet noisy,
Trompe Le Monde demonstrates
that the band still has that knack for
originality which was somewhat
doubtful after their last release.
What makes them so continu-
ally appealing is the fact that they
_are virtually impossible to clas-
sify. On this record, for example,

singer BlackFrancis alternates
between soft vocals and cacopho-
nous shrieks. Likewise, guitarist

‘Joey Santiago plays in a style

melodious at one instant, full of
grinding, feedback-riddled riffs at
another. If not for KimDeals’

See "Pixies" on page 8

day i it would be.

‘go anywhere without people use his stardom to make myself
pointing at you an’: calling out

Matt Bumstead

Oh, To Be Fairious!«

. Wow! Whatmust itbeliketo ‘was standing backstage at the
be Clint Black, to stand on stage _ Opry last year with some friends
and merely smile or turn around ~~ when we saw a strong new artist
toshow yourback(side)andhave named Alan Jackson approach-
thousands of women shrieking _ ing. Having worked for arecord |
with joy and practically ripping company, I had come to learn
their clothes off? Can you imag- — how easy it is to talk with the
ine for just one day being Arnold _ singers. I boasted to my friends
Schwarzenegger, Madonna, or that I could walk right over to
Michael Jordan? What an in- him,callhim byname,and talk to
credible feeling it must be to be him.
loved and cherished by so many, As I started over, I saw mobs
to sit on top of the world. Whata _ of people around him, and many

re Ha _ others, Pointing at him, as if he’
~ But then'what about the next” w ere part of a sideshow. Tsto ypped

day? The mystique ‘of being a a Se thought, “What right do I
celebrity, always getting silver have to call him Alan? I haven’t
spoons, would surely evaporate earned his trust or respect. Is it
amidst the reality that you can’t — fair of me to manipulate him, to

feel good and important? Is he

yourfirstname. No McDonald’ 8. not justanother man?” Needless

Forget going : shopping. And to tosay, I left the guy alone. Sol
them you must snvile as you pre-_ was one, out of thousands.

berunattimefive ‘I once asked Mary-Chapin

ir - Carpenter (who is a friend, so I

ner this) if stardom had

