THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY. NOVEMBER 18. 1991 5

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY -Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLTHATHAWAY-Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON-Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

Attention Alumni:
Save Our Country

Davidson must always seek students of character, of general as well as
academic ability, of loyalty to the ideals of the College, and of promise for
future usefulness... . Davidson’ s primary purpose is to develop persons of
humane instincts, of disciplined and creative minds, and of Christian
character for full lives of leadership, of service, and of self-fulfillment.

Hoping these excerpts from Davidson’s Statement of Purpose still hold
true, the editors of The Davidsonian respectfully ask our alumni to do the
country a favor: run for public office. We believe that the United States is
in desperate, need of men and women.with integrity and a commitment to
service to lead the nation into the next century. How long our country will
last while power is held by the likes of that lecher Kennedy, that plagiarist
Biden, that self-celebrating sophist Bush (et alia ad nauseam), is anybody’s
guess. America can do better. An examination of our current economic
situation suggests that we must do better.

The editors are not asking Davidson’s graduates to run in the hopes that
more conservatives or liberals will hold office across the country. Our
request is non-partisan. We believe that Davidson graduates have been
taught toreason well enough tohold considered political opinions. Davidson’s
alumni, we trust, do not accept the knee-jerk sideshow crap employed by
Republicans and Democrats to swing votes onnon-issues. Instead, their lib-
eralism or conservatism is based in clear and deliberate~analysis of the
problems facing our nation.

We also know that Davidson graduates can be trusted not to fall prey to
the trappings of office that have so terrible ensnared the majority of our
nations political figures. Our faith in our alumni stems from Davidson’s
commitment to service. Political activity, Davidson graduates know, is just
that, another form of public service.

'. Unfortunately, most of those who currently hold office believe that their
main objective is to stay there. Re-election becomes more important than
actual accomplishment, and our elected officials too often take the easy route
of becoming the pawn of wealthy special interest groups who will finance
their incessant campaigning, as long as they are willing to play ball. We
believe that Davidson effectively teaches its students that true power lies in
accomplishment rather than elective appeal. Our alumni, we trust, have the

strength of character to know when to play politics, and when to make the.

unpopular decisions they know to be right.

We hope some of you will consider a temporary leave of absence from
your current careers to serve in your local, state, or national government,
where you might apply those lessons of charagter you learned while at
Davidson. ;

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The-Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per'year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

Pace Responds to F.L.A.G. Critics

To the Editor:

In response to the letters
by Lucy Herriott and Kelly
Perry and “A Davidson Par-
ent,” I must dispute their
notion that Davidson should
not support the increased
awareness of homosexuals
and homosexuality on cam-
pus through the establish-

ment of a F.L.A.G. chapter
because Davidson was
“founded on Christian val-
ues.”

Christ teaches love, not
judgement; He asks that we
accept each other for what-
ever we may be just as He
unconditionally accepts us.

Individuals who would

claim that it is Christian to
condemn and persecute any
one person, not to mention
an entire section of the popu-
lation, are simply using the
Bible to justify their own
fears and narrow-minded
prejudices. ,

Sincerely,

Chris Pace, 93'

Hines Rebukes F.L.A.G.

Opponents

To the Editor:

Iam writing to all of the -

parents who may be opposed
to F.L.A.G. because of a re-
ligious belief.

I understand that your
religion views homosexual-
ity as a sin. That is your
choice to believe in such a
manner. Mine does not.

It seems you would like

to censor (yes, I used that
dreaded word) my opportu-
nities at Davidson because
of yourconservative beliefs.

Before being so quick to
judge the organization, why
don’t you take a look at its
purposes: 1) to protect the
rights of lesbians and gays
2) to further the understand-
ing of family and friends

about homosexuality 3) to
provide a center of support
for the gay community 4) to
educate the public about
A.I.D.S.5) to promote equal
rights for all, and 6) to com-
bat homophobia.

Your children are old
enough to decide if they want

See "F.L.A.G." on page 6

Thanks From Project Life

To the Editor:

The 1991 Bone Marrow
Committee would like to
extend its warmest thanks to
those who have contributed
their time and efforts to our
cause.

Included are Rusk and
Pika with their service auc-

tion, SAE with their Bike-
A-Thon, and Warner ‘Hall
with their study break.

We would also like to
thank all the individuals who
have boughtour T-shirts and/
or sponsored themselves
with the suggested $60.

The Bone Marrow Com-

mittee has worked very hard
this semesterand weare very
excited to see your support
on the day of the drive -
Wednesday, November 20!

Sincerely,
‘TheBoneMarrow Commit-

We Can Help the Homeless

To The Editor:

My mother brought me
a stack of Davidsonians
‘when she came to visit me.
The article on the homeless
angered me as much as it
seemed to have angered the
Davidson campus.

I am spending a semes-
ter abroad in Paris, and I
pass at least 20 homeless
people a day. I have never
given a- homeless person

money, nor had I ever de-
fended them until I read the
comments made by Clarke
and McGuffin. [had always
held the opinion that the
homeless didn’t want jobs.
I almost think the au-
dacity of Clarke and
McGuffin was good in that
it drew attention and angered
people enough to do some-
thing. I know in the future
when I walk down the street

that I am not going to look
down at the homeless as
“losers.”

While I still do not think
giving them money is a so-
lution, I do not believe they

-will get anywhere with “the

classified ads.”

I do not believe all
homeless are like Len
Doucette who seems to have

See "Homeless" on page 6

Just Take Off The Hat.

_To the Editor:

Philip Atchison, in his
article on the “no hats” rule
at Baker’s WeightRoom, did
notconfront the issue of why
he insists on wearing his hat.
Instead he unfairly blasted
Terry Holland by saying that
he is “bitter about the bland-
ness of his new job” and is
“consumed with boredom.”

Atchison did not tell us

why he is opposed toremov-
ing his hat in the weight
room. Does the wearing ofa
hat while lifting weights help
increase muscle mass? Oris
it simply vanity?

If a student visited a
professor’s office and the
professor asked the.student
toremove his hat, in all like-
lihood the student would do
so. Why should it be any

different when Mr. Holland
makes asimilar request. His
requests of Davidson stu-
dents should be taken as
seriously as those made by
Davidson professors. Itis a
simple request Mr. Holland .
is making of the students. It
requires little effort--just
take the hat off.~Certainly

‘See "Hats" on page 6
