THE BAVIDSONIAN. CAMPUS LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 1991 17

Music Professor Declares Faith
In Power Of African Art

By Bryan Bayles

“In any case it is clear that if
arthas importance, itis because it
can. . . enlarge or trivialize the
imagination. Ifitcandosomuch,
it affects the social fabric as well
as individual lives for good and
evil.”

- Jacques Barzun

During the history of critical
theory, two major theses regarding
the potentialities of art have devel-
oped and at times converged.

The first of these, arising from
the philosophic climate of 19th-
centiry Marxism, asserts art’s
power to serve as a commodity in
the monstrous “machine” of capi-
talistic exchange.

The other, more romantic, ap-
proach declaresart’s power to serve
as a Catalyst in spiritual and psy-
chological healing.

This approach has been fur-
ther explored in a psychoanalytic
approach to critical dialogue.

But what unites both these
approaches to art is a belief in the

“power” of the aesthetic experi- .

ence, for good or evil.
avidson’s own music profes-
y and composer-in-residence,
ilmer Hayden Welsh, has re-
cently declared his own faith in the
power of art.
From February 1-28, at the

Afro-American Cultural Center in
Charlotte, Welsh will be display-
ing 30 pieces of African art se-
lected from his own private collec-
tion: one of the most impressive in
the state.

In addition to Welsh’s pieces
on exhibit, works from the Saccoh
Collection of Jersey City, N.J. will
be on sale as well.

Welsh hopes to use his exhibi-
tion, which is being displayed in
conjunction with Black History
Month, to promote racial harmony.
Welsh professes a strong belief in
art’s ability to serve as a medium
of cultural and spiritual exchange.

“T won’t have to mention the.

word ‘race’ at.all," he says. "If
people become interested in art
they'll become interested in the
people and cultures that produced
it, and look at them in the context
of all art. I can’t think of anything
better I can do to ease racial ten-
sions than this.”

Professor Welsh explains that
African artis usually broken down
into two classifications: tribal and
court.

The tribal pieces are those
created by village artists as inte-
gral components of the spiritual
life and ceremonies of the village
community.

These include exquisitely
carvedand beautifully ornamented
fetish figures, used for singular

magical purposes.

The court pieces, on the other
hand, are expressions of the wealth
and power of the tribal chief, in-
tended to impress their onlookers.

His collection of court pieces
includes a Bamum elephant mask
of wood, elaborately decorated
with copper, cowrie shells and Eu-
ropean Colonial coins.

The most significant aspect of
this art for Professor Welsh is its
Captivating spirituality.

“All of the tribal pieces were
done as religious expressions of
the people,” he explains...."These
pieces are similar to medieval
western church art; they have the
same type of compelling spiritual-
ity that comes from inside the piece.
I can spot it from across town.”

Welsh hopes that the univer-
sality of this~spiritual expression
will be recognized by the visitors
to the exhibition.

He is himself a devout Chris-
tian whose music is often spiritu-
ally-inspired.

“This artwork is the way that
this particular group of humans
expresses the concerns that are
common tousall. I want the public
to understand that message in this
exhibit.”

Anditis by this contention that
Professor Welsh posits himself in
the long tradition of art-lovers who
place faith in art’s power as a sug-

‘ Photo Courtesy of College Relations
African art collector and music professor Wilmer Hayden
Welsh holds a helmet mask from the Kuba tribe in Zaire. His
collection will be on display at the Afro-American Cultural
Center in Charlotte in February 1991.

gestive and communicative ve-
hicle.
As Welsh continues to bring

the potential for people to com-
mune through art in whatart-histo-
rian Jacques Barzun has called “a

his fabulous collection to others
throughout the world, he opens up

spiritual event divorced from
creeds."

~ IN OuR LABORATORIES YOU'LL

FIND GIRAFFES, DOLPHINS,
A CoRAL REEF, A RAINFOREST. . .

With SFS you can study critical environmental
issues worldwide including:

e Wildlife Management in Kenya

© Marine Ecology in the Caribbean
e Rainforest Dynamics in Australia
e Marine Mammals in Baja Mexico
e Ethnobotany in Ecuador

Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and

fees paid in full—plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school.
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. _
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the
Army, Navy or Air Force. “ie pe age Tae :
if selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as
a commissioned officer in the Reserves. ; : :
. After graduation, mbes pipe years ‘a np r= can endng of: sores 2n
vel of scholarship assista — 1
es ony Sa You'll also Sat good pay, ater hours, con eaten HOPE TO-SEE YOU THERE!!!
— be ht to work with a variety of patients and the latest medica Be ie eer

if you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice—
and er to cut Sieeananss of medical school—send for more information today. L R UDR
_— ne [tae WORLD 18.YOUR CLAS 8A 00 M

9018: |

Financial
Aid

College
‘Credit

For more information on Semester & Summer field
ie research courses, come to:

THE HMORRISO! RAO, COLLEGE UtION
WENNESDAY. FEBRUARY 2%th AT 3:00 PA

O Air Force | on

CNavy
Check up to three: ) Army (21-36 years of age)

om
\ Wal i coypon Armed Fores Scholarships, PO. Box 2865
(21-34 years of age) (18-34 years of age) - 8 :
| Please print all information clearly and completely, nie sa [| | | ;
| -.—_=- =," F |] Quote of the Week:
di State zipL TTT 11 | | eh :
i prone LL CLT) CELT soc. sec. wo 1 Sede oe } GL ordered'this book of quotations, so hopefully
i ‘College (068) 7 apiiae OS aa i we can use that at some point.
Field of Study Mo Year. ,

ie information tarily provide will be used for recruiting purposes only. The more complete itis,
‘ He we can pipe an Every (Authority: 10 USC 503). ,

RES
_ Associate Editor Walter Price after not

being able to find a quote of the week.
