THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 1991

Letters (cont.)

Abroad Office Working For Student Safety

To the Editor:

I found it discouraging that the
Davidsonian should use the article
from the College Press Service,
“Students Abroad Could Become
Terrorist Targets”, without inves-
tigation the ways in which the
Office for Study Abroad has been
dealing with the responsibility of
student security abroad. Indeed,
the alarmist tone of the headline,
followed by the last sentence,
“Davidson’s study abroad pro-
grams are continuing as sched-
uled”, might lead your readers to
think that the Office of Study
Abroad, the Resident Directors
abroad, and the administration in
general are either unaware of dan-
gers abroad or don’t seem to care
much about student security.

On the contrary, I have been
on the phone a great deal with our
directors in France, Germany,
Spain, and Italy, and have sent
copies of faxes from the directors
in Madrid and Rome to parents, to

allow them to have first-hand re-
ports from abroad. All of our direc-
tors are in contact with the Ameri-
can Embassies in the host country,
and the Office of Study Abroad
receives security reports from the
CIEE and NAFSA concerning the
status of programs abroad, travel
advisories from the State Depart-
ment, and notifications of programs
that have been cancelled. We also
are in touch with some of the major
study abroad programs such as
those of Beaver College and But-
ler University, who have several
hundred American students study-
ing abroad, primarily in the U. K.

To date very few colleges and
universities have cancelled pro-
grams abroad, and those were pri-
marily in Israel and the Middle
East. Both President Kuykendall
and Dean Williams are informed
immediately of developments
abroad. Ambassador Jack Perry of
the Dean Rusk Program has also
been in contact with former col-
leagues in the State Department

and has replied to inquiries from
concerned parents. I can assure
you that the College does not take
lightly the responsibility for the
security of our students in Europe.

Your sensationalist headline
and your failure to examine the
depth of the College’s commit-
ment to student safety abroad were
a disservice to all those here at
Davidson who are extremely con-
cerned for our students abroad, yet
who have made a decision in good
faith to continue our programs as
scheduled, not from an ignorance
of the situation or lack of concern
for participants, but because we
feel, after much deliberation, that
our couse is the most appropriate
at this time.

Sincerely,

Homer B. Sutton
Coordinator, Study Abroad

& Associate Professor, French
February 6, 1991

Wood Responds to "Rude" Notes

Dear Mr. Thompson:

Once again you have deemed
itnecessary to put pen to paper and
inform us of another one of
Davidson’s dilemmas. Contrary to
your assessment, lack of school
spirit is a serious and preeminent
problem at Davidson. As stated in
your article, “Not all of you are
children of alumnae; you should
beable to understand the situation.”
well, Iam not the child of an alum-
nae, but I do not understand just
where you are coming from.
Throughout my sometimes diffi-
cult college career, I have come to
appreciate all aspects of Davidson:
academic, social, and athletic. Also,
as a four-year football player, I
have experienced first-hand this
lack of school spirit or, even worse,
negative school spirit.

Youseem toregard the “whole-
some expression of college pep”
as totally obnoxious. Asa Davidson
athlete, I could not disagree with
this more. Ask any senior, junior,
or sophomore member of the foot-
ball team what one of the biggest
differences between this season and
past seasons was and he will tell
you it was increased fan support. I
have seen both ends of the spec-
trum.

Ican rember playing Wofford
College in front of 200 less-than-
screaming onlookers and wishing
I had gone to Holy Cross College,
a fine school where I could play in

I had only hoped for the con-
tinued resurgence of fan support
for the football team as well as the
other athletic teams at Davison,
but for you to subvert the exem-
plary work done by Terry Holland,
Dave Fagg, Charlie Slagle, Bob
McKillop, Rebecca Hawkins, and
all the other Davidson coaches by
writing such an obnoxious and
undermining piece of so-called
“journalism”’ is totally reprehen-
sible.

To recap, in your article you
extol the virtues of drunkenness
and apathy. Coupled with previ-
ous articles on laziness and un-
healthy behavior, I think you are
shaping up to bea fine role-model
for all college students.

I also object to your using the
football team’s recent success as a
basis for your argument. If you
have trouble enthusing yourself
when the basketball team plays
Duke and Virginia, why don’t you
keep those feelings to yourself
rather than trying to ruin the expe-
rience for those who truly believe
in Davidson athletics? Your con-
demnation of the basketball team
is an example of the same unin-
formed and ignorant attitude that I
have heard during my first three
years on the football field. I would
try to explain to you how much a
negative environment affects the
psyche and performance ofa young
and struggling athletic team, but
I’m afraid the argument would be

terrible, why have so many people
in theathletic department adopted
Coach Fagg’szeal forschool spirit
and competitiveness? The answer
is because his approach works. I
would like to think that our success
was only minimally based on our
reclassification to Division III.
Rather, it was caused by a total
reworking of our outlook on our-
selves and our school.

The final point in your article I
wish to question is yourcontention
that the Baker Sports Camplex
ticket policy is too strict. While I
agree that sometimes the complex
is far too inaccessible, I have never
experienced any difficulty in gain-
ing admittance toa basketball game
this year.

A question thatsprings to mind

is that if you find it so difficult to

get into a Davidson Basketball

game and endure an hour ortwo of
“obnoxious” fan behavior, why do
you bother going at all much less
writing about the experience? If
you feel the need to drown your
hackneyed sarcasms in your be-
loved Bush beer, and as evidenced
by your disdain for athletes and
things athletic, then obviously an
NCAA event is not the place for
you.

So please, Mr. Thompson,
spare us your negative attitude
regarding Davidson athletics. If
you are not going to be part of the
solution, at least refrain from
compounding the problem. Also,

Iraqis
Continued from Page 6

“abortion pill.” We are also on
record (as of January 27) as sup-
porting President Bush’s policies
in the Persian Gulf. Two years ago
a bill to repeal North Carolina’s
anti-sodomy law failed, but an-
other bill with the same intent will
be debated in March. Debate can
get quite heated as so-called “lib-
erals” contend with so-called
“conservatives.” Besides, Kyleand
Seth are members of the Davidson
Delegation, so you can imagine
how the delegation’s votes turn
out at statewide meetings.

The other topic which drove
me finally to write about the war
was the front-page story about Is-
lam. Unfortunately, I may not be
able to articulate properly what I
want to say; the best I can do is
depend on that occasionally an-
noying rhetorical device of unan-
swered questions.

To what extent can we use our
own belief system to judge the
events in the Gulf region? This
question works two ways. On the
one hand, we have acted (orat least
claim toact) according to Western
traditions of the democratic proc-
ess, the rule of law, and the value of
human rights -- traditions which
Hussein’s actions imply mean
nothing to him. On the other hand,
what choice do we have? If, as the
article states, Iraqis view this con-
flictas a battle of the faithful against
the nonbelievers, what should our
roleas“‘nonbelievers” be? Granted,
I respect the opinions of the Iraqi
people, just as I respect, for ex-
ample, the opinions of the pro-life
movement. However, demonstra-
tors at abortion clinics still should
be arrested when they violate the
law, and I see no reason why Iraq
should not be forced out of Ku-
wait.

To whatextent does becoming
“more aware of the religious di-
mensions of this crisis” actually
help, especially if “the problem is
not primarily religious in nature,
but political and economic”? (to
quote-from parts of the article).

How much should a recogni-

tion that “Muslims . . . view the
wealth, power and success of the
United States as deadly tempta-
tions from outside leading them
away from God” affect our current
policy, given that an apparent
majority in the U, S. view the ac-
tions of Iraq towards Kuwait as
deadly threats to international sta-
bility? What evidence is there that
Iraqis in general and Hussein in
particular truly understand our

world view, rather than simply their
perception of us?

How are we supposed to nego-
tiate with Saddam Hussein when
his invasion of Kuwait demon-
strates that he himself preferts the
use of force to peaceful negotia-
tion? Inall the debated I have heard
and read over the rightness of our
use of force to remove the Iraqi
army from Kuwait, only two para-
graphs in Gilbert Shaw’s pre-war
columncameclose to making some
sort of comparison between our
actions (attempt to negotiate, then
attack) and Hussein’s (ditto). Af-
ter all, before the invasion Hussein
was involved in a dialogue with
Kuwait; when talks did not pro-
duce the results he wanted soon
enough, he invaded. It seems that
by his own actions, Hussein dem-
onstrates that he himself values
force over diplomacy. What real
results could we reasonably have
expected, then, by continued at-
tempts to work out the issues over
a conference table?

I realize that a counterargu-
ment to the implied justification in
the last paragraph exists and runs
something along the lines of, “We
shouldn’t stoop to his level.”
Considering that the alternative
requires us somehow to “‘pull him
up” toour level, I see no soundnéss
in that approach to the situation.
Given the Islamic world view pre-

sented in last week’s article,
Hussein is as likely to follow our

lead as he is to convert to Presby-
terianism.

I’ll finish this part with acouple
of questions relating to the histori-
cal references which some have
made wonderin g why; th es S. is
acting now wien it has
aggression in the past. If I-witness
several murders which I could have
prevented but did not, does that
mean I no longer need to feel the
duty to stop any subsequent mur-
ders which may be attempted in
my presence? Does a context of
hypocrisy invalidate the attempt to
liberate Kuwait? And a final shot
for the vocal war supporters: Why
is there notalsoa lotof pro-Ameri-
can-ideals-based demonstrating for
immediate U. S. intervention in
the Baltic states?

llook forward to reading some
answers to these questions. By the
way, the NCSL delegation attempts
to meet every Monday night at
9:05 p.m. somewhere in the Un-
ion; if you’re interested, please
walk around and find us, as adver-
lising can get expensive and waste-
ful.

5 Warren Cooksey is a junior
history major from Raleigh, NC.

e . Ay x
front of 10,000 fans every home — lost on your ears. if you ever find yourself totally Rev 1@W Pires Tee cdr dag
game. Even the head coach of Since arriving at Davidson in devoid of school spirit and colle- Otirererinn “think
Lehigh University, Hank Small, 1987, I have constanly been told _ giate pep, try singing the Davidson Continued on Page 6 Davidson sanaah vi hice.
remarked to me that he could no- (by game attendance figures and College Fight Song. If by some _ tween poetry and history, science. not onl reson ‘ eons
tice the negative atmosphere and general student attitude) that the unbelievable coincidence: you and philosophy, theoretical and bat becs fase body al d
general apathy on the Davidson footballteamwasnogoodandthat don’t know it, feel free to call me _ practical sciences; he knows that alumni a es as . tech
campus whenever he visited to weareabuchofloserjocks.Coach oranymemberofthefootballteam, the same methods cannot be ai Stren, thet ve ri ec
play. Happily, the highlightofmy Dave Fagg came in this year and and we will be more than happy to _plied in all these fields; he ha is ly fi esi eam
Davidson athletic career was beat- changedthat.Heaccomplishedthis assist you. the methods appropriate to each.” There, ‘beet ee
ing Guilford College this past sea-_ by reemphasizing the studentsides Interrelation of subjects (the We'nde'a es ssp 4
son in front of more than 3,000 _ofourstudent-athlete personasand Humanities program is a good bod a ies ool, good studen'
supporters. Not a huge crowd, but by organizing a number of your Sincerely, example) becomes increasingly fori i SPRY cago
the biggest and most vocal inmy “obnoxious” pep-rallies. If, Mr. CHRIS WOODS “91 more difficultas the realm of ve of the ae cieoneen
limited Davidson memory. Thompson, collegiate pep is so February 6, 1991 is expanded without relation eel ie agi sec piaaal :

Remember, Always, Always, Recycle For The Davidsonian

