THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1991

Caveats For the New World Order

By Michael Moriarty

How come I feel Billy Joel
should sing the anthem for this
New World Order? Ready and hit
it) Communism’s dying/ Iraq’s
frying// George Bush in ’92/Capi-
talism through and through (cho-
rus: We didn’t start the fire/ the
fire’s been burnin’ since the world’s
been turnin’). No need to subject
you any longer to my attempt at
musical composition, but you get
the point.

At the risk of bursting the
euphoria over the state of the world
now that the Soviet Union is no
longer the “evil empire” and most

countries seem convinced of the
intrinsic beauty and wonder of
American-style of capitalism, the
world should be reminded that the
U.S. has not gotten all the answers
correct. Now that capitalism is the
supposed victor, we must not for-
get the problems with this eco-
nomic/social system nor the things
that non-capitalist systems have
gotten right.

If America’s experience is any
indication, a world paying homage
to the God of free enterprise and
the Invisible Hand will havea large
and entrenched underclass. So
what, you ask? Well, America can
easily ignore the problem because
the poor and less privileged have

no significant power in today’s
society. What happens in the
Soviet Union, however, when you
have a prosperous, healthy, and
content middle-class/elite and a
massive impoverished underclass
that, although lacking institutional
power, wields power by numbers?
The risk of civil strife in many
developing capitalist countriesruns
very high.

East Germany might now,
understandably, question its move
to the West. Unemployment runs
rampant and the social costs of
conversions are enormous. By no
means am I saying that the whole
world should embrace socialism.
Quite the contrary. What I am

saying is that unabashed capital-
ism’s radical individualism needs
to be tempered with at least some
concern for society at large.
There are other reasons why
capitalism must have a broader
outlook than the self. This eco-
nomic system depends on con-
sumption: on buying, consuming,
discarding, and buying anew.
Keynes labelled the cause of the
Great Depression as insufficient
consumer demand. That is, people
were not buying and consuming
enough. This is fine when the
materials to produce consumer
products are plentiful. What hap-
pens, however, when resources run
scarce, as now seems to be the

case? Oil and natural gas reserves
will be depleted by early in the 21st
century. We, as a world society,
are rapidly levelling forests, moun-
tain sides, tropical regions, etc. in
the name of economic advance-
ment. Atsome point the earth will
simply nothave anymore resources
to give us. Then what?

I am not a pessimist, but I do
feel that many questions and is-
sues still need to be raised and
addressed as the world plunges
head-first into the sea of capital-
ism. Maybe I am wrong. Maybe
the Invisible Hand will rush in and
save the day. I do not want to take
that risk, though. The stakes are
just too high.

Nelson Neale , '92

Sarah Beth Grant, '94

A number of Davidson's current instructors are visiting
assistant professors. The Davidsonian asked students
their opinions on this issue.

Billy Smith, '93

I think it has a positive effect on education. If these
professors bring new, fresh approaches to their respec-
tive fields the student is exposed to a broader range of
ideas.

Davidson is overcoming its reputation as aregional
college, but slowly. Visiting professors- with their
varying backgrounds, educations, and academic sys-
tems through which they’ve worked- are crucial to
broadening the college’s outlook and fostering an open
intellectual community.

As long as the visiting faculty members are well
screened I would think that they would be a benefit to
the College. New ideas are great for an academic
community. I only hope that these visitors can make a
quick adjustment for their short stay.

Laura Cunningham, '93

Visiting professors have a hard time fitting in at
Davidson. They are usually unfamiliar with the aca-
demic stipulations of the honor code, including self-
scheduled exams and take-home tests. Because they
are only temporary members in their departments, the
visiting professors cannot establish the lasting rapport
characteristic of student-faculty relationships.

a games

Robert Coggins, '92
Davidson’s ability to bring in quality visiting pro-
fessors leads toa positive impact on our education, We
are lucky to have various experts- with varying per-
spectives- willing to share their knowledge with us.
The fact that Davidson can attract these individuals is
a positive aspect which also deserves recognition.

‘opir

"Call Peter Fisher

