THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 2, 1991 7

From Fair Weather Friend to Full-Fledged Fan:
The True Confessions of a Justified Bravehead

By Ross Sloop

“When it rains, it pours”. As a
kid I would go to Atlanta Braves
games with my uncle. The tradi-
tion was to stick around after the
game and watch the grounds crew
draw the protective tarp over the
infield. You know; the big tarp
they used to have with the Morton
salt girl that read, “when it rains, it
pours”.

Just as the defeats have been
raining down steadily for the past
eight years, now the victories are
beginning to pour in. Last week
witnessed the long-awaited return
of America’s Team to the top of
baseball’s toughest division. The
Braves carried a two game lead
over the Dodgers into the week-

end. And for the first time since
I’ve been a Braves fan, the boys
from Atlanta begin September
number one,

True, I’ve only been a Braves
fan for about four months now, but
I consider myself to be a pretty
darn good one. Since returning to
Davidson, I’ve wasted hours in

Belk lobby with a handful of loyal.

souls, gluing my eyes to WTBS.

Being a Braves fan is more.

than just a good way to ignore
studying. It is a wave that people
must catch. First place! How long
will it last? How long will it be
before an Atlanta team again en-
joysa view from the top? Halley’s
comet only comes every 72 years,
and I like to see it when it does.

And I don’t want it to be 72 years
before Atlanta can again bask in
the glow ofa divisional champion-
ship.

Okay, you may beasking your-
self why my article sits on this
page, rather than in the sports sec-
tion. One should not reduce what
the Braves are doing this season to
a mere sports story. Consider the
socio-economic aspect of the

‘Braves being in first place.

Never before has a baseball
team gone, in one year, from dead
last place to first. This is a genuine
rags to riches story. Not since Cin-
derella or maybe Ted Turner him-
self has something emerged :from
such humble beginnings.

If Desert Storm was a confi-

dence booster for the American
people, what must they think of the
Braves? In acountry trying to pull
itself out of a recession, Terry
Pendleton, Ron Gant, and David
Justice are an inspiration to us all.
Those guys should be made na-
tional heroes. Well, maybe not in
Los Angeles.

“Go Braves!...and take the Fal-
cons with you”. No longer will
these bumper stickers littering
hundreds of sarcastic Atlantan’s
back fenders be insulting. Go in-
deed. The Atlanta Braves are going
straight to number one, and I
wouldn’t mind abit if they took the
Falcons and the Hawks in the same
direction.

As I said, I’ve only beert a

Braves fan for four or five months.
It must just be a strange coinci-
dence that my interest has picked
up at the same time that my team
begins to win. Fair-weather friend?
Who, me? Okay, maybe.

But Tom Glavine, Sid Bream,
and Otis Nixon have done some-
thing much more important than
turn me into a Braves fan. After
this season I feel that I will be able
to call myself a full-fledged base-
ball fan. So that next year even if
the Braves stink I can root for the
Reds or the Dodgers or whoever
else might happen to be good.

But for the month of Septem-
ber at least, join me down in Belk
lobby, kick back, and root root root
for America’s Team. Go Braves!

the Davidson Experience:

Rob Hughes '93
Yeah; I think it’s at least something worth seriously
looking into. WDAYV doesn’t really offer too much as
far as being student run (to my knowledge), and I think
involvement with an FM station could bea great part of -

ALS
Gregg Sartiano '94

The demandis there, both for listening and produc-

- tion.'.As far as the money situation, benefits have al-
ready been held, and the overall cost is not too steep
anyway. Besides, another outlet in media arts is defi-

nitely something this campus could use.

’ Bryan Bayles "92

It’s difficult to say at this point. Alot will depend on
logistics - where the money will come from, etc. How-
ever, an FM station offers the potential to be not only an

_ outlet for news, updates, campus communication, etc,
but also a means by which music can be put to more
meaningful use than the shallow drivel we’re used toon
larger stations which are dictated by corporate ethics.

In recent months, several students and certain faculty members have
been exploring the possibility of expanding W.A.L.T., the student-
run radio station, to FM broadcast capability. Our reporter asked

students this week for their thoughts on the issue.

Jennifer Reid '94

Idea.

David O'Brien '93

Yes. WALT would be a great way to appeal to the
musical tastes of another group of students (in addition
to WDAV) and could be more student oriented. Great

Well, most students already have AM listening
ability. Unfortunately, no one really listens. Unless the
school has aplan to increase their audience why pay for
something that has gone unused!

-Robert Blake

| "Everyone you meet has two things: an opinion, and a rectum. The trick is to make sure

that the one fits into the other."
Keep yours in a more comfortable place: write for Opinions. Call Peter Fisher at -6587

