16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Sports Illustrated Staff Writer Nicholas Dawidoff

By David Smyth
Sports Illustrated staff writer Nicholas Dawidoff spoke
in the 900 Room last Monday on writing for the magazine
and writing prose in general. Some of these questions have
been taken from the question and answer session following
his speech, and those are marked with asterisks.

Davidsonian: What has been the most enjoyable story for
you to research for the magazine?

Dawidoff: There have been several that have been a lot of
fun. It was really fun to go to Costa Rica. I spent time in the
rainforest there. I did a story about a man who used to be a
graduate student in physics at the University of Texas. He
left Texas and abandoned his life in the United States and
went to Costa Rica, determined to learn as much as he can
about rainforests before there aren’t rainforests anymore,
And he climbs up into trees with pulleys that he’s created
and he sits up in this sort of harness that he has with cans of
tuna and a backpack. He eats tuna and sits up there all day
and watches the ones around him and takes notes. He’s
pretending to write sort of this comprehensive book on the
rainforest and he let me go up om his ropes and try it; it was
pretty fun.

Davidsonian: Has your education at Harvard directly or
indirectly affected the way you write for Sports Illustrated?
How does your history and literature backgtound come to
bear on the research you do and the ideas you get?

Dawidoff: I gather what you’re asking is what is the direct
applicability of a college education to the work I’m doing,
or do you mean specifically where I went to college?

Davidsonian: Answer in terms of direct applicability.

Dawidoff: I would say that at Harvard you have what is
called the core curriculum, which requires that you take
courses in a really eclectic array of disciplines. You learn
about a great many different things, and many of those
specific things you’ re not going to remember. For instance,
there’s acourse on the Black Plague, and unless you want to
become a specialist on the Black Plague, you know this
course is not going to have any direct bearing on what you
do, or it’s unlikely atsome point. But what my perception of
a college education is and what I’m really grateful for and
what I think it does is itteaches you to think. Imean, yes, you
learn many specifics, you learn lots of facts, but more you’ re
really learning how to think analytically. You’re learning
how to approach material and how to consider ideas from as
many perspectives as possible. That’s the hardest thing in
life when you are a citizen is to see things as many ways as
possible, see things the way any number of other people
might see them.

Davidsonian: How much editing do you do on your own
stories before you submit them to the magazine?

Dawidoff: I don’t know. I mean, I edit it until I think it’s
perfectand should not be changed at all. If Isubmitit] think
it’s there, and if J think it’s not there, thenI work onit some
more. Hence, I’m always irritated when something’s
changed.

Davidsonian: Do you try to funnel your stories to certain
editors or do you even have a choice over who reads your
material?

Dawidoff: Well, each editor has certain bailiwicks, and so
we have a college football editor, a pro football editor, a

baseball editor, an environment editor. These people have.

their own jurisdictions. I work a lot with one guy who’s
called the articles editor. He edits the story which we have
in the back of the magazine which is ten to twelve pages
long. I enjoy working with him, But it is a news magazine,
and you have to be prepared to work with anybody, what-
ever your assignment is. e
We also have higher editors who are responsible fo:
what we’re doing. There’s one assistant managing editor
who’sincharge ofall the writers. Ireporttohim,so to speak,
and I report to the managing editor. What we call managing

editor is what most newspapers call editor-in-chief.

Davidsonian*: The nature of your job seems that it would
require a good deal of travel. You’ve spoken some about a
sense of place in your writing. Do youever gettired of all the
travelling you have to do?

Dawidoff: Yeah, we have to travel too much. It gets really
lonely-in these big hotels, when you’re there for so long.

Earlier in the summer, I started in Pittsburgh and spent
a week in this hotel there. And sure enough, the Minnesota
Twins won fifteen games in a row or something and the
Pirates lostevery game that week. Sol called New York and
they said, “Oh, they’ll be fine next week, just go on with
them to California and cover them,” SoI had to go out toLos
Angeles for another ten days, and I’m just following this
baseball team, spending every day talking to Pittsburgh
Pirate baseball players who are very sick of mé and never
want to see me around because they’ve started losing as
soon as I showed up. And baseball players are very super-
stitious.

You know, I am fortunate that the friends that I have

from college are spread out all across the country, so
generally you get the chance to see people. Sure, I mean, it
wears on you after a while but it’s also really nice. I’m not
married yetand I ‘mcurious aboutall these places, so it’s fun
to experience them, There are only so many times you can
go to these places before itreally does become work. For me
it’s really exciting to go to a new place. I always look
forward to it. And, because of my job I’m living in New
York City which I don’t consider my home, so to speak. I’d
prefer to live in a smaller place, In thatrespect, yeah it’s my
house, but it’s not the place I’m most attached to,

Davidsonian*: How does one go about getting a job on a
magazine like Sports Illustrated?

Dawidoff: I was really, really lucky. The way it worked for
me was] was actually admitted to graduate school and I was
going to go study English literature. But 1 woke up one day
in July after I had graduated from college and I was sup-
posed to be doing this, and I just didn’t want to go. I really
wanted to be a writer; I just felt it, And, I didn’t want to be
a teacher; it just wasn’t what I wanted to do. And you have
to know my family, but this was startling news. The first
thing my mother said was, “Well, you're not staying here.”
And, so, I told you I’m from New Haven, so I went down to
Yale to the library and I got the addresses of lots of
publications. I had spent a summer iriterning at Boston
magazine, and I called up the guy who I had worked for

there. I just told him this was something I was thinking about
doing and he asked, “Well, if you could work anywhere,
where would you work?” And I said, “Sports Illustrated.”
He said, “Obviously you can’tdo thatnow, so you should try
to get yourself a job on a newspaper.” So I was going about
doing it, but just for the hell of it, he said, “Call Walter
Bingham.”

Walter Bingham, senior editor, helped me get an inter-
view withthe chief of reporters. She had me write a sample
story which I wrote on the Boston Marathon. She called me
back the next week and said that I had a job.

People ask a lot about how you get jobs in journalism,
and it’s just impossible to expect, especially during a reces-
sion that everybody would have that kind of luck. One
experience that in many ways I regret not having is writing
for one of the many really good newspapers in this country
where you get the opportunity to write like crazy. Actually,
a friend of mine who became a very good journalist Started
out in New Hampshire with a tiny little newspaper, and she
travelled around six towns every day just writing whatever
story there was. And anything’s really a story; anything’s
interesting. Those are all really good places to start. All
anybody cares about at a magazine like Sports Illustrated or
Time or anywhere else is that you like to write and that you
do it well, And the only way to do it well is to do it lots and
lots and lots and lots and lots. So, that’s it. I know that’s not
much ofa revelation, but if you decide to be a writer, you’ re
a writer. You just have to keep making yourself do it over
and over again. I can’t tell you how frustrated I was my first
couple of years at Sports Illustrated, because I was the kid.
I would write and write and no one would pay attention to
me, but I just loved to do it, and I guess I just kept doing it
and it worked out. So I think the same must be true for most
people who do that.

Davidsonian*: What happens if you can’t geta quotation all
the way down or you can’t read what you’ve written?

Dawidoff: Oh, I just make it up. No, if 1 don’t think I have
exactly what they said I wouldn’t putitdown. Do you mean
if 1 getlost? Idon’t write something down unless I have what
my sense tells me is the quotation. There was a Supreme
Court case about this this year which established that you
can change a quotation as long as you don’t change the
meaning of it. I would be dishonest if I told you that every
journalist probably doesn’t change quotations a little bit.
‘The only way that I would change a quotation is if someone
had an obscenity, I might change the obscenity because |

_ can’t use it otherwise. You might change puncwuation,

things like that. If someone says something, that seems to
me fact; that is what they said and it’s my job to put that
down, whether i like it or not. It doesn’t seem to me to be
much of an.argument. What you say is what you say.

Davidsonian*: Do you have much of a problem with
athletes that are hostile to reporters?

Dawidoff: I would say, by and large, baseball players are
the most difficult. Basketball players are a dream to work
with.

But there are great people in baseball, too. Phil Plantier,
the Red Sox young rookie, was eating a huge plate of
Chinese food, and he said, “Let’s go talk outside where no
one will bother us.” That never happens; they all wanttotalk
where they’re around each other and stuff. So we gooutside,
and he offers me some. Never happens. Bo Jackson won’t
talk to Sports Illustrated because one of our writers long ago
wrote something nasty about him. My experience with him
was at spring training and I didn’t know this. So he just sort
of made fun of me;which is very easy todo when he’s sitting
around all of his teammates and anything he says is funny.
So, there’s stuff like that, too. Generally , it’s fine. They’ re
making so much monéy in part because they’re getting so
much press coverage. They’re not fools; they know that. It’s
sort of areciprocal situation. qi

Davidsonian*: Do you like the Braves or the Dodgers?

Dawidoff: Oh, I don’t know. I hope the Braves win, but ]’d
go with the Dodgers. Am I supposed to say that here?
