16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 21, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIE

Lieutenant Colonel Answers Questions About War

LTC John Moncure, Assistant Professor of Military Studies Talks to The Davidsonian About the Initial Air Attack, The Draft, Our Weapons

By Mark Damon Puckett

Q. Would you explain the letter you just received for the
sake of this interview. ;
A. I just received a letter which says that I am allowed to
explain Army doctrine, but I am not allowed to speculate
because as an active duty officer any speculation I would
make might be considered as criticism by an official. On the
other hand, I have no problems with answering your ques-
tion because I can explain the doctrine in a way that makes
it applicable to the current situation.

to have?

A. Well, the evidence of it is the lack of resistance--the lack
of Iraqi resistance. There are two interpretations of it: that
we’ ve paralyzed him, that his commanders don’t know what
to do, and they’re not likely to move without instructions.
The other possible explanation is that he’s holding some
secret weapon in reserve and he’s just waiting for us to
expose ourselves, and then he’ll go after us. Only time will
tell which one it is.

_ Q. What about our equipment and how much it’s breaking

temperatures rarely got above eighty or ninety or so, and it
was in the sand. We took them to the National Training
Center in May and the temperature was over 100 degrees
every day. Sand and heat do not have an effect on the
modem weapons like it did have an effect on older ones.
Now, our tanks have been training in Fort Irwin, California
in the middle of the Mohave Desert for a decade. Our
soldiers are accustomed to the conditions and have learned
to deal with the machinery in the desert. Remember, the
Iraqi machinery is in the desert too.

Q. What about the Draft? How imminent is it?

Q. Through the news, the media, weseea lotof “what

A. Ihave read in the newspaper that there is no plan

if’s”? Do you think the media has distorted the war? The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has said that for adraft. Rather than trying to pretend that I have
Are people more paranoid than they should be be- ¢hjs is a campaign, which has an air component anda some knowledge of what people are thinking in high

cause of it?

A. I think the media are doing fine. They’re exam- 8roUnd component. . . . it has been the plan all along
ining the same kinds of possibilities that military that ata certain point ground troops will be committed.

people and civilians strategists examine. They’re just

government, we can examine this question with of
pure logic.

If we had a draft and we drafted you today, we’d
have to give youa haircut, give you a physical, give

doing it in a public forum, and all these ideas are

important for us as ademocratic people to think about
because it helps us be informed of the situation.

Q. What about graduates from Davidson? What are they
doing there right now?

A. Right now, I suspect they are not engaged in actual
combat, except for maybe Rufus Timberlake. He’s an
Apache pilot, and the Apache is used doctrinally (see I can
work the doctrine in here) to fly beyond the front lines.

I heard reports on the news of Apaches being involved
in air strikesalready. Bob Davidson is in the 101st Airborne.
Sherb Sentelle and John Black are in the 82nd Airborne.
Those are the most recent graduates whoare over there. The
82nd Airborme, doctrinally, is used to insert infantry deep
behind enemy lines--usually at critical spots, such as com-
munication centers, headquarters, fort facilities, air fields.

Q.. What was the purpose of the air campaign really? If this
escalates into a land war--

A. I’dbereluctantto use the words “escalate to a land war.”
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has said that this
is a campaign, which has an air component and a ground
component. Therefore, it has been the plan all along that at
acertain point ground troops will be committed, and that it’s
almost inconceivable that we could win the war without
ground troops; that is so because an air battle is unlikely to
force Hussein to pull troops out of Kuwait. The only thing
that’s going to motivate his soldiers to leave Kuwait is the
threat of personal harm to them.

Q. Well, let me lead into another question. The fact that they
bombed civilian Israeli areas; do we really think
hope to influence anything Hussein will do?

6

down?

A. Ihave some close personal information on that subject,
having come eighteen months ago from a unit which is now
in the desert. Rommel, in World War II, wrote in his
notebooks that he expected something on the order of thirty
percent of his equipment to be broken atany particular time,
just for maintenance reasons.

Of course, his flow of spare parts was inhibited some-
what by the British who controlled the Mediterranean. Our
machinery is infinitely more complex than those days with
computers and all sorts of fancy capabilities. Our tank can
move at forty-five miles and hour--with the limits deliber-
ately placed on the engine. This isa fifty-four ton machine.
It’sa fifty-four ton computer with all its electronic wizardry
in there. And all of it is expensive and very Complicgied,
And it can break.

At the same time, when we were issued our M1-A1’s in
the 3rd Cavalry, we went through all sorts of training with
them, and we took them to the National Training Center,
which is the closest to a combat environment that our
soldiers have faced up until now. In two weeks, with this
new equipment, we never had under ninety percent of our
equipment operational. Ninety percent.

Q. But isn’t that with a civilian corps of engineers and
computer specialists?

A. No. No, that was ordinary Joe soldier mechanic.
Admittedly, we had much better supply lines at the National
Training Center than Rommel did in World WarII. In Saudi
Arabiaright now, we have very good supply lines. We have

you uniforms, spend several months to train you to
operate some of this complex machinery. This isn’t
stuff you pick up and just use, see. Then, we’d have to send
you over there, acclimatize you, and integrate you into a
combat unit. How long’s that all going to take? Right now
basic takes twelve weeks, I believe.

If we had the idea that this war was going to last a long
time, then I think a return to the Draft might start to loom up
as a distinct possibility. The public law that’s in effect now
says that anyone who turns twenty during calendar year
1991 will be the first to go. So it begins at twenty and goes
up, and at some point it comes back to nineteen, then eight-
een. Now you’re talking about millions and millions of

“people, and in situation like that the Army would mobilize

training divisions to train masses of recruits. One of them
is in Charlotte--the 108th Training Division.

Q. What about students at Davidson now who’ve been
selected for active duty?

A. We have four seniors that have been selected for active
duty. And those are Derrick Willard who was selected for
Regular Army Aviation, which means he goes on active
duty effective the day of graduation. Mike Peters and David
Taylor are both Infantry, and Tracy Perez, who will go into
the Air Defense Artillery, then transfer to Military Intelli-
gence. I would be surprised if anything changed their com-.
missioning date. —~

Q. I guess I’m still stuck on the idea of a Draft, since I’m

the age Iam.

A. Well, I tried to answer that question in the vaguest way

I could by saying that, in the case of a protracted war with
large numbers of casualties requiring replace-
ment with no end in sight; the idea of drafting

A. What he’s done is what he promised he was
going todo. Apparently we anticipated that. That’s
a big question we’ve all had, but it turns out now
that apparently the Egyptians and the Saudis and
the United States have come to an agreement that
Israeli retaliation against an attack won’t have any _
influence on the Coalition. Apparently, the Coali-
tion came to an agreement in advance on the subject
and asked the Israelis not attack Iraq; but to let us

If we had a draft and we drafted you today, we'd have
to give you a haircut, give youa physical, give you

people to replace the casualties becomes a
more distinct possibility. And you can draw
your own conclusions about how long you
think the war’s going to last.

~ uniforms, spend several months to train you...

—~Q. What do you make of the peace demonstra-
tions around campus? And the reaction of

. certain people in R. O. T. C.?
A. Dissension is part of the American way of

hit the missiles for them. Even if they attack, it

won’t have a major effect.

But getting back to the question of the air
attack. We had to destroy command and control facilities
because that deprived the enemy lower level commanders
from guidance from above. We had to destroy their air
forces because when we commit ground concentrations of
troops we are exposing them to air attack.

So that’s the purpose for the air war in the beginning: to
paralyze the enemy command and control structure, to hurt
the mobile forces they have behind the front line. The front
lines aren’t going anywhere, and that’s why I believe we
. haven’tattacked them yet. At least for right now we’re not
concerned with the front lines because they’re dug in;
they’re fixed defenses.

 Q. And youdothink itdid have the paralytic effect itneeded

-C-5A’s that cah hold tons and tons of spare parts. And we
have lots of spare parts, so.as these machines break, we can
fix them. It takes a half-an-hour to pull an engine out of the
M-1-A-1 tank. It takes an hour or two, perhaps, to trou-

vbleshoot the tank and figure out what’s ess on it. Then
it takes a few hours to fix it.

So the turnaround time for repairing tanks is relatively
short. That’s why atsany given moment a ground tactical
‘commander can count on having at least eighty-five percent
of his combat power available to him.

Q. What about the sand and the heat?
A. Well, the tanks that I was talking about we learned to use
in the West Texas desert. That was in the spring, so

doing things, so even if somebody doesn’t
agree with me, the fact is simply that dissen-
sion is going to happen.

e) think at this point, regardless of how you feel about
whether we should have attacked or when the attack should
have happened, the decision has been made to conduct the
attack, and the campaign is being prosecuted with the
greatest rapidity possible, with the greatest degree of f preci-
sion and accuracy. This approachwill hopefully yield the
Jowest number of casualties, Not just American casualties,
but Iraqi casualties as well. By paralyzing their command
and control structure, for instance, we. induce a certain
amountof fear in them, which mightmake them throw down
their arms and surrender.

I don’t think anybody has predicted it would go this

well. I don’t think the military planners predicted it would
go this well.
