THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1991 5

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Managing Editor

CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor

The Babidsonian

JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY -Davidson Arts Editor
H BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
“The South's Foremost College ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
Weekly” HOLTHATHAWAY-Photography Editor

Founded in 1914

SARAHGAYLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager

LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor

LEE PENNINGTON-Associate Photography Editor

ARE BEING
RELEASED

[OU MEAN ITS
INAUGURATION _
DAQ ALREADO?

Letters

MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

We Can & Will Be Better

President Kuykendall relayed the following comments to the faculty
before their meeting last week. The editors find his assessment of the
mounting anger and tension among the community to contain a vital
message of hope for the college, and we‘have obtained his permission
to reprint his statements here.

Let me request a moment of personal privilege on the issue of
campus unrest which is the subject of the resolution to be considered.
under New Business. I do so not to attempt to influence any delibera-
tions, but to let you know some of my feelings in brief compass, so that
I can preside over the discussion without need of further comment. »

Most of us have shared.a common concern in recent days over events
which have evidenced what Will Terry has aptly labeled “meanspirit-
edness” within this community. For many of us, the.current mood on
campus is particularly troubling against the backdrop of a Statement of
Purpose anda generally accepted mission forthis College which intends
a far nobler life together than these episodes and sentiments seem to
express. In my judgement we should not waste too much time in
expressing surprise or dismay at the outbreak of such negative senti-
ments at Davidson. Our cultural environment is full of such things, and
any adequate understanding of human nature must take such possibili-
ties into account. Our College’s heritage contains adequate allowance

for the existence of sin, original or otherwise.
~ But it also allows for the existence of virtue -- of grace, of accep-
tance, of understanding, of appreciation of differences, of goodness and

. kindness to others. The point to focus on just now, it seems to me, is that -.

we mean to do better and to be better; and we shall. There are many signs
of positive resolve already evident. The leadership of student govern-
ment, and student leadership in general, has been strong in opposing the
intolerant spirit. The Dean of Students and his staff have undertaken
effective responses, and the Dean’s letter has expressed our intentions
and hopes with his characteristic directness. The faculty -- many of you
-- have already found ways, in class and out, to participate in solution
of the problem; and the proposed resolution ( or any alternative to it )
will surely be of help as well.

‘Within the next days and weeks, there will be further opportunities
to implement the proper spirit within this community. Clearly these
next several days are also fraught with other sorts of stress, but I would
urge you to continue to seek ways to bring the College family together.

Thanks for what you have done and will do to deal with our current
problems.

‘December 3, 1991

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
‘1 P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the viewS of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the

Trustees of Davidson College.

Williams Unfair To Students

Tothe Editor:

. Recently, I visited
Davidson. While there, I
stumbled upon the Novem-
ber 18 issue of The
Davidsonian and its quote
of the week. Although I
could empathize with Dean
Williams about the issue of
“intellectual conformity,” |

+ felt disheartened that he felt

Davidson students to be less
“interesting” and “stimulat-
ing” than students of other
colleges and universities.

I attended Davidson for
2 years then transferred to
another school to pursue

- studies in special education.

I will neverregret the 2 years

I spent at Davidson. While
there, I not only benefitted
from my studies, but from a
few: professors as_ well.
These professors remained
open-minded and allowed
for freedom of thought by
promoting a democratic
classroom full of individu-
ality and intellectual stimu-
lation. Granted, not all stu-
dents remained as open-
minded as these professors
and may ‘have chosen to
“conform” to typical stan-
dards of society, but their
ideas were no less interest-
ing. :

Now, I live in a new

environment with new

people. Sometimes, my
classes do not allow for the
individuality or stimulation
and interest that I experi-
enced my previous 2 years.
Now that I am away from
Davidson, I can fully appre-
ciate my classmates, friends,
and professors with whom I
experienced knowledge and
growth.

Dean Williams, do not
take for granted those people
who surround you. If you
want to find your studentsas
“interesting” and “stimulat-
ing,” encourage individual-
ity.

Sincerely,
-Cameron Kempson

Davidsonian Upsets Readers

To the Editor:

I am writing to express
my concern over the use of
gender neutral language in
the past twoeditorials in The
Davidsonian. Although I
understand the desire to
avoid gender specific vo-
cabulary in referring to
groups of people of mixed
gender, I find the use of the

neuter plural expression et ©
alia in reference to humans’

offensive. This usage was
particularly disturbing in the
passage “homosexual stu-

-| dents, faculty, et alia” in the

“Time for F.L.A.G.” edito-
rial, which purported to take
the stance that the college
would benefit froma height-

ened awareness of homo-
sexuals as individuals. I
would have preferred et alii,
but I readily admit to being
conservative in matters of
language. The abbreviation
et.al, would have avoided

the problem altogether. Iam -

coming to accept that some
conventional. expressions
must be abandoned because
many are offended by gen-
der specific language, but I
am not convinced that The
Davidsonian’ s solution is a
happy one.

Thank you for your consid-
eration.

Sincerely,

E.C. Teviotdale,

Visiting Assisting Professor
Dept of Art

To the Editor:

I am distressed by your
policy ofprintingletterswith .
the names withheld. I can
understand if itis a matter of
safety, butto allow someone
to hide behind a front of
anonymity is poor policy for
a newspaper.

If people have opinions
that they want printed, they
should have the courage to
back their ideas with their
names.

Sincerely,
Muffy Pepper

-JY Aer Concerned

Dear Editors:
What the hell is going
on? [leave to spend the year

on vacation (Oh, I mean -

studying on JYA. Yeah,
that’s it:) and that great train
we call Davidson jumps the
tracks and takes a detour to

the land of the odd and dan-

gerous. (I know some of

these are old, but bear with.

me.)
--Mysterious walnuts
Start destroying Mazdas. (In
the September 30th Crime
Report, for those with their

back issues at the ready for
easy reference.) The perfect
crime, by the way.

--Davidson falls eleven
spots on the U.S. News
Venerability Scale. I feel
dummer already. Or is it
more dumm?

--People start fiddling

with the HonorCode.C’mon
guys, remember New Coke?
--Oma Blaise starts writ-
ing X-rated columns, giving
everybody the willies.
--Air-banders dance
around with socks on their

Red Hot Chili Peppers.

--Racism and general
intolerance appear to be
really heating up. Of course,
they’re old. favorites, so I
don’t know why I was sur-
prised about that.
_ -*Dickens writes the
November4th lead editorial.
First, he’s dead, right? Sec-
ond, he didn’t even go to
Davidson, did he?

--The Braves win the

See “Lind” on page 8
