8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 1991

Inside Art 7

The following poem was submitted to the Davidson Arts editors by Professor J. Gill Holland.
Holland, a professor in the Department of English, currently has in print both a collection of
poems entitled Pocahantas and the Drunken Waiter and a volume of Chinese poems which he
translated into English, Keep an Eye On South Mountain.

a. The Unbearable Lightness of TV Tanks in Moscow:
A Media Lesson for Children

By using the principles of mechanics, hydraulics, and these few desert bones

_| To discover The New Scientist builds a dinosaur to discover its true slow' motion.
In that dim age the rig of the beast could only move hugely in silent flickers.
Change gears like the family Saratoga Chrysler push buttons, lift limbs.

The subtitle “WHO STOLE MY GREENS?” slowly squeaks the TERROR-LIZARD.
Silent film, boys and girls, the original FLIC.

Don’t let the fellow lie down on you, but nothing to fear in the attack dept.

Clarion Quintet Begins
1991 Concert Series

Courtesy of College Relations
The Davidson College Con-
cert Series kicks off its 1991 sea-
son on Monday, September 16,
with aperformance by members of
the Clarion Quintet and pianist
Clifton Matthews. The concert
begins at 8:15 in Hodson Hall of
the Cunningham Fine Arts Build-
ing, and admission is $5.
Matthews will play along with
four of the five N.C. School of the
Arts faculty members who com-
prise the Clarion Quintet. The
Clarion players in Davidson will
be Fred Bergstone, John Ellis,
Robert Listoken, and Mark Popkin,
presenting a concert of chamber
music for piano and winds that
includes Mozart and Beethoven

musician is a soloist in his own
rightand has given concerts world-
wide.

There will be a reception for
guests and musicians following the
concert, along with a free pre-
concert lecture by William Law-
ing, chairman of the Davidson
music department, at 7:15 inRoom
115 of the Cunningham Fine Arts
Building.

The Davidson College Con-
cert Series was created by an en-
dowment established by First
Charter National Bank in honor of
the Coltrane family. Itis funded by
the endowment, the music depart-
ment, and the College Union.
Additional support is provided by
the Friends of the Arts at Davidson.

Speed up the projector. Its modern cousin the crocodile, a racer, piano and wind quintets. Each

Rush

Continued from page 7

gives you a headstart along the riverbank, but only Tarzan makes it off,
that tycoon of the jungle vine, from Taikun, Ta-chun, the root.

very tasteful ‘guitar solo. More guitar can be heard on “Face Up” and
especially on “Where’s My Thing”, an instrumental that is easily the
highlight of the album. The bass playing of Lee along with Peart’s
flawless and lightning-fast drumming drive this tune along forcefully
as Lifeson’s guitar continues to come to life.

“The Big Wheel” exhibits nothing new, while “Heresy” is musically
similar to “Anagram (for Mongo)” from Presto and comments on the
revolutions occurring in the Communist world. The lyrics of Neil Peart
have long been considered far above the rock and roll average, and of the
Eastern European revolution he says, “All around that dull gray world of
ideology/ people storm the marketplace and buy up fantasy./ The
counter-revolution at the counter of a store/ people buy the things they
want and borrow for a little more.” Just as the album starts with some
hopeful glimpses of the old, hard-rocking power that once made Rush
one of the premiere concertattractions, itcloses with three tunes thatare,
quite simply, sleepers (and I don’t mean good ones you’ II never hear of!).
“Ghost of aChance” and “Neurotica” are just plain boring, and “You Bet
Your Life” , although the fastest closing tune in the past four albums, is
deeply scarred by dabs of vocals that are too similar to Billy Joel’s “We
Didn’t Start the Fire”’.

As far as the absence of rumors goes, I hate to say it but it is proba-
bly because noone cares. Being the Rush fan that Iam, it pains me deeply
to speak of them negatively. There are some bright spots on this album,
but if you’re a true Rush fan (or even if you’re not), don’t scar your
memories of the band by buying this record.

“Big Wind” is Ta-feng, our ward phon which could blow you little ones away.
Feng is “Wind,” which brings distemper, rimes with Deng, :

pronounced /dung/ in English. Xiao-Ping, a bottle of little Pop
you eat with a bad egg-rOle and your stomach’s aching empty soon

again. Homophones are as trustworthy as a new broom.
Later in’89

{

Soviets j | Jour yAne to the Middle Kingdom souahe

PLA expertise on crowd control. “Wind in the Bones” is rheumatism,
a epee volunteered. I couldn’t find t in the Cette

Wait a minute, children. That’ s the souk of a tank t in the street.
Hear the wind whistle inside our bones? In unbearable Hepes tanks poise and flicker.

“WHO STOLE MY GREENS?” Slowly squeaks the TERROR-LIZARD.
Run cannot. Too big to run away.

-- Gill Holland
Later in August, 1991,

Awards

Continued from page 7

Album of the Year: Don’ t Rock the Jukebox, Alan Taskioa: No Fences,
Garth Brooks; Pocket Full of Gold, Vince Gill; Put Yourselfin My Shoes,
Clint Black; Rumour Has It, RebaMcEntire. - - -Each of these selections
is worth every penny of its price - very solid projects by strong.artists.
But let’s be serious - Garth deserves this one. No Fences is one of the
best albums (of any kind) that I have ever heard; and aside from personal
opinions, it was also one of the biggest selling (four huge singles
including “Friends in Low Places”) and most attention-getting country
albums incountry music history. The only legitimate choice for an upset
is Rumour Has It, in another year I might lean its way. But not this year; .
chalk up one for Mr. Brooks. Who should: No Fences Who will: No
Fences

American Collegiate Poets Anthology
SS =
International Publications

is sponsoring a

National College Poetry Contest

--Fall Concours 1991--

open to all college and university students desiring to have their
poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZES will go to the top five poems:

$100 | $50 | $25 |$2QFo

First Place Second Place Third Place $20 Fifth

AWARDS of publication for ALL accepted manuscripts in our
popular, handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology,
AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS.

Deadline: October 31
CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS:

1.
2.

3.

Any student is eligible to submit his or her verse.

All entries must be original and unpublished. Poems
previously printed in student publications are acceptable.
All entries must be typed, double-spaced, on one side of the
page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must
bear, in the upper left-hand corner, the NAME and ADDRESS
of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended. Put name
and address on envelope also! (Alumni Welcome!)

There are no restrictions on form ortheme. Length of poems
up to fourteen lines. Each poem must have a separate title.
(Avoid “Untitied”!) Small black and white illustrations welcome.
The judges’ decision will be final. No info by phone!
Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannot be
returned. Prize winners and all authors awarded publication
will receive a gold-seal certificate ten days after the deadline.
1.P. will retain one-time publication rights for accepted poems.
Foreign language poems welcome.

There is an initial $3 registration fee for the first entry and a fee
of one dollar for each additional poem.

All entries must be postmarked not later than the above
deadline and fees be paid, cash, check or money order, to:
INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS
P.O. Box 44044-L
Los Angeles, -CA 90044

So, tune in next week, and we’ll continue our preparation for the big
night!
P.S. An added note to last week’s spot on Garth Brooks : 1) Ropin’ the
Wind, predicted to top the Billboard album charts, shipped out at 1.8
million copies - almost double platinum - on its opening day. 2) Brooks
is now the second biggest record seller overall on Thorn/EMI, the
world’s third largest record company, some of whose artists include
M.C. Hammer, Wilson nea and Vanilla Ice.

(“All art is quite useless."

- -Oscar Wilde
If. ou’

re as happy about the above truism
your: work to Inside Art. Ple

