6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, JANUARY 14, 1991

Time For A Change: Let's Boot President Bush

In a matter of days, our Com-
mander-in-Chief will, with an al-
most pathetic irony, likely cele-
brate the anniversary of Dr. Mar-
tin Luther King’s birth by send-
ing thousands of American troops

D.A.
Thompson

to die and kill for the sake of prov-
ing a point in the Middle East.
Exactly what that pointis... well,
we’re still waiting for a decision
about that from the White House,
and should have it only few short
years after the funerals.

We once heard that the point
had something to do with Amer-
ica's unwillingness to stand idly
by in the face of “naked aggres-
sion”. (Nakedness, in any con-
text, being an enemy of most
Republicans.) Our finest Presi-
dential Propagandists told Mr.

Bush to call Saddam Hussein an-
other Hitler, and he did. He told us
how the United States would de-
fend the sovereignty of Kuwait
against the hostilities of a mad
dictator. He told us that the con-
flict isn’t about oil.

The campaign, having been
over for two whole years, you»
would think the President wouldn’t
shroud his statements in that chest
pounding, bar room rhetoric so
riddled with lies anymore. Any-
one who has had even a fourth
grade education knows that it has
never been a tenet of United States
foreign policy to restore deposed
monarchs to their thrones. (Ac-
cording to Bush, it seems the
Declaration of Independence was
actually just a little joke meant to
describe the overwhelming valid-
ity of the divine right theory.) It
took us over two years and an air

-Yaid before we acted forcefully

against the aggression of the Axis
Powers in World War II, (aggres-
sion so buck naked it makes the
Iraqi action look dressed to the
nines).

Our President has also told us
that we must stop, by whatever
means, Saddam Hussein’s military
and nuclear build up. In a recent
open letter addressed to college
students, the President writes that
there are certain things for which
we must fight, and these include
the destruction of Hussein’s nu-
clear arsenal. The President
claimed that with each passing day,
Iraq becomes a stronger and more

dangerous military power.

Well, quite frankly, how could
Iraq not develop into such a pow-
erfulenemy? After the millions of
dollars worth of United States aid
and weapons he received during
the course of the Iran-Iraq war, of
course Saddam Hussein has an
extraordinarily strong military. No
thinking adult would give matches
toachild with apenchant for flame,
yet our President gave weapons to
a dictator of a violent and hostile
bent. Go figure. Under the ad-

the nation that he and his wife had

trouble finishing the report because

it included such a graphic descrip-
tion of torture. I, for one, find it
strange that AI’s reports document-
ing similar events in, say, Israel or
maybe Bejing, have never pro-
voked such a response. Mr. Bush
is as genuinely concerned about
human rights as he is about men-
struation.

Let’s face it, President Bush is
about to lead the country to war for
the sake of cheap gasoline, and

... how could Iraq not develop into sucha pow-

‘erful enemy? After the millions of dollars of

United States aid and weapons he received...

ministration of former President
Reagan and then Vice-President
Bush, the capabilities of ihe Iraqi
military grew exponentially as a
result of American support. Thus,
our President is trying to convince
college students that they should
support his policy of sending
people into a war which is actually
an attempt to clean up of a foreign
policy debacle.

Also worthy of note is our Presi-
dent’s citation of Amnesty Inter-
national’s report regarding the
human rights atrocities committed
by the Iraqi government. The
President claims that our military
presence is necessary to defend the
inalienable human rights of the
Kuwaiti people. Bush even told

American's Apathy Allows Government's Transgressions

It seems that the American
people have convinced themselves
of the inevitability of war with
Iraq. Military action is now sup-
ported by the majority in this coun-
try on the basis that Saddam
Hussein is an ominous threat to the
emerging world peace, not to
mention to the financial founda-

Bob
Hornsby

approach; something which makes
itself evident in a study of our
history. It has been thé practice of
the people of the United States
always to advance their rights and
liberties at the expense of those
around them. The sordid tale of
the near genocide of the native
American, so easily forgotten by
so many of us, is but one example
of the shameful attitude we as a
nation have taken towards the rights
of those outside our fold. In just
two hundred years we have de-

has long been the war on the ad-
vance of communism. However,
as Jay Wiley has stated, “No one
givesarat’sass if you’reacommu-
nist anymore.” As this so called
threat quickly fades, it becomes
clear that the underlying motiva-
tion for U.S. meddling in Central

American polictis is and has been ~

the advancement of American
economic interests. Even more
disheartening is the fact that our
interests have been advanced at
the great expense of the common

... the people of the United States have over the
years become content to elect to office indi-
viduals who can be relied HP OR to be evil,
selfish, loathsome so-and so's for them.

tion of the industrial world. But
does no one feel a compulsion to
jump off the bandwagon of Ameri-
can self-righteousness inan attempt

to gain a clearer perspective of the ©

stroyed much of the land and wild-
life with which the Indians for
untold centuries had a mutually
beneficial exchange, and we have
all but disposed of the remaining
traces of native American culture.
Even now the reservations which
we have “given” these people are |
in grave danger of being reduced
in size.

people in that region.

Does this mean that the Ameri-
can people are all evil, selfish,
loathsome so-and so’s? I think
not. I believe that it implies some-
thing much more terrifying: that
the people of the United States
have over the years become con-
tent to elect to office individuals
who can be relied upon to be evil,

because he is absolutely unwilling
to compromise in his demands.
According to the President, the
United States does not associate

_with terrorists, (except those in the

Syrian government) and therefore
refuses to negotiate for peace.
Saving face and looking tough, a
top priority of Mr. Bush since time
immemorial, will now demand a
bloody human sacrifice.

Mr. Bush has chosen to bully
the Iraqis into submission. He has
snarled and growled like a school-
yard punk. And, ina display of his

“command of dirt cheap, low rent,

knee jerk epithets, (you know, the
kind which provoke the oft re-
peated cries of “Yeeeeeha!” and
“Hell Yeah!” from the Schlitz
swilling, wife beating, B.J. & The
Bear watching masses) the Presi-
dent of the United States actually
said, on national television, that
our military would “kick his
{Hussein’s] ass” in the event of
war. Such statements just ooze

with the administration’s commit-
ment to peace.

In my denouncement of the
President’s policy of refusing
negotiation I am by no means
supporting Iraqi activity in Ku-
wait. Instead, I am pleading for a
peaceful solution to the crisis. Any
leader who will not exhaust every
single alternative to war is not fitto
be in charge of a military force.

Iam reminded of Henry James,
who once wrote that “one has to be
a lowbrow, a bit of a murderer, to
beapolitician, ready and willing to
see people sacrificed, slaughtered,
for the sake of an idea, whether a
good one or a bad one.”

I am dragging on longer than I
thought with this article, andsoI’ll
try to wrap up. Reagan’s greatest
hypocritical lie was that his cam-
paign platform was based upon the
family, Christian values, and hard
work, whiic he was, in truth, the
only president to have been. di-
vorced, he didn’t attend worship
services, and took more vacation
time than any president in history.
Mr. Bush’s hypocrisy in promis-
ing a continued era of peace and
prosperity while delivering warand
recession is a bit more threatening.
(You know something is awry
when /’m saying that Reagan
wasn’t so bad!)

Please understand that I’m not
writing like this because I am un-
patriotic, nor do I bash the estab-
lishment simply for the sake of
doing so. When I tell people that I
think Bush should be impeached,
it’s because love.this country and
I don’t want to see us engaged ina
war. Wereally should, in the inter-
ests of peace, impeach Mr. Bush.
Then, you see, we'd be leaving the
whole thing up to Quayle, whose
father can have us out of this mess
with a few phone calls.

Feminism Reexamined

By Stephen Hill '94

There’s been a bloody, ongo-
ing battle here in The Davidsonian
over the feminist movement. But
I think there is one aspect that
many of us have overlooked. I, for
one, would like to take a second
look at the feminist movement, not
in terms of its issues, but in terms

of it’s overall direction. To do so

we need to ask two questions: 1)
What are the goals of the feminist
movement and, 2) How does the
current feminist approach plan to
secure these goals?

I think the ultimate goal of
feminism is that of equality. No
more chauvinistic subversion of
women. No more 69 cents to the

‘man’s dollar, right? Few would

scoff at the movement’s noble
ambitions. After all, no one is
really against equality; it’s what
our nation was founded on. Yet,
thereis something decidedly wrong
with the feminist movement. Evi-

feminine qualities. By embracing
more masculine qualities (aggres-
sion, dominancy, etc.) many
women have found themselves
propelled along the corporate lad-
der. But at the same time, they are _
losing a vital part of themselves.
And thatis the kicker-- the current
feminist approach actually hurts
the women it claims to be helping.
No matter how you look at it,
this repression of the self is terri-
bly unhealthy. After all, being
feminine is not inferior to being
masculine. But in rejecting their
femininity, feminists appear to
accept the assertion that men are,
in fact, superior to women. *
Personally, I don’t have the vi-
sionto say exactly whatnew.course
the feministmovementshould take.
But I can see that women won’t
achieve the equality they seek sim-
ply by becoming men. If we are to
accomplish anything, women must
embrace that which makes them -

unfolding events? Is no one com- Morerecently the United States _ selfish, loathsome so-and-so’s for _ dently, the problem lies not in the feminine. Then they must prove to -

pelled in the least to make an ob- has wreaked havoc on the lives of _ them. The Americanpeople would —_movement’s goals, but in the ways _ society the value of these feminine

jective assessment of the United our Central American neighbors. rather enjoy the benefits of unfair, feminists are attacking the Prob- qualities.

States’ position inthis matter? Are - We have supported oppressive egocentric, self-righteous foreign — lem.

we afraidoftheresultsthatsuchan dictatorships and funded guerilla _ policy, all the while blaming pub- _In order to achieve societal and

assessment would obtain? movements against popularly lic officials for their corruption, financial Success, thecurrentfemi-- — § tephen Hillis on sindecidled:
Thereissomething fundamen- elected governments.: The ration- Céncinned dn Page 8 nist ideology urges women to di- major freshman from euavincian

tally wrong with the American

ale for such contemptible policy

vorce themselves from traditional

Virginia. .
