16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With John Howell, Honor Council Chairman

By David Thompson
Davidsonian: What exactly do you do as Chair-
man of the Honor Council? How does your job
differ from, say, the Secretary of the Council?

Howell: The Chairman of the Honor Council is
the senior student in the honor system as a whole.
I’m primarily responsible for the conduct of the
hearings relative either to the Honor Code or the
Code of Responsibility.

The Secretary is more responsible for the ad-
ministrative aspects of the council’s proceedings.
The Secretary is in charge of selecting members of
the panel, based on gender or equivalents; setting
up the hearings; writing up the minutes; and pre-
senting the case to the Review Board if circum-
stances require such action.

Davidsonian: Last term, former Student Solicitor
Brian Jennings wrote a piece for The Davidsonian
in which he called for several reforms to the
Honor Council and its proceedings. The most
significant of these entailed the implementation
of a jury system to incorporate more students in
the judicial process. What do you think of these
suggestions?

Howell: I’ve always perceived the Honor Coun-
cil, and wished to promote that perception, that the
Honor Council is a peripheral aspect of the honor
system as a whole. I think the primary emphases
of the honor system, and anything pe toy}
should be the Honor Code and the
sponsibility themselves, rather than the enfo:
ment side of the system.

I feel that you are a full-fledged participant in
the honor system when you sign the sheet at ori-
entation your freshman year which binds you to
adherence to the codes. Iam no more a participant
in the honor system than any other student. I’ma
full-fledged participant because I attend Davidson
College, and subscribe to those minimum stan-
dards which the college has deemed appropriate
to set for student conduct. «:: .

By enlarging the system with a self-selected
jury or what-not, you are shifting some of the
emphasis to the judicial aspects of the honor
system. I feel that is a serious mistake, and I feel
that it detracts from the principles to which you
aspire.

That’s the reason only three students per year
are selected from each class. We want student
representation, it’s a student-led organization, it’s
critical that each class will choose their represen-
_ tatives, and that each student have a voice in that
choice. % feel that six panel members are appropri-

ce-

table, It would seriously undermine the quality of
analysis in the hearing to enlarge the council.
As chairman, it’s my responsibility to ensure

that everything we dois of the highest caliber, and.

any step that may detract from that caliber is, I
simply feel, isnot one which we have the right to
take. Especially if it’s just to include more people
in the judicial aspects of the system.

Davidsonian: The counter to that argumentis that
you’re not just “including more people,” it is

opening up a system so that people understand it
better. Proponents of the jury-system believe that
it will make for greater impartiality in the deci-
sion-making process itself. Your response?

Howell: I do not feel that any one Davidson stu-
dent is any more honorable or impartial than any
other. By that same token I do not believe that by
opening and extending the Honor Council you
would be increasing the impartiality of the deci-
sion makers. I feel the council members are as
impartial as any other member of our community.

Toexpand the council, you are simply opening
up the system to include more people in a very
specific peripheral aspect of the honor system.
You don’t have to be on the Honor Council or sit

in on any of its hearings to be a full-fledged
participant in the system, or to experience the
benefits of the code. I think there’s a terrible price
to pay for such experience.

Davidsonian; You seem to be suggesting that the
proposed reforms are merely frivolous and de-
signed simply to include more students in the
experience of sitting inon a hearing. Others
would claim that Davidson students feel detached
from the Honor Council, and, while a peripheral
aspect of the system as a whole, the council makes
decisions that seriously affect individuals and the
community as. a whole. Many feel that the results
of these reforms will eventually resemble jury
duty in the American judicial system. More
students will look at the cases individually as
jurors rather than a select group of judges who
handle the entire case.

Howell: A problem with that is that we intention-
ally and deliberately define ourselves as different
and separate from the American judicial system.
Our goal is truth, either way, to serve both the
school and the individuals involved.

would say a “selected” group of jurors, chosen by
their peers.

As you know, a substantive number of stu-
dents, 30 to 40, run each year for three slots, and
I think that’s good. Those who are selected are-the
ones whose peers have chosen them as the most
appropriate to sit on the council, and feel that they
would receive the most fair and impartial trial
from those people if they were ever to come
before the council.

I believe that’s the way to go: we need to take
the people whose classmates deem them most
appropriate. Three is enough, as we simply do not
have enough hearings in the course of a year to use
more people than that to the extent that it becomes
a burden for each member.

Davidsonian: Moving on, the Code of responsi-
bility has been rewritten slightly to make a differ-
ence in evaluating cases which affect the rights of
persons rather than property. Could you expand a
little on how those changes came about?

Howell: The Code of Responsibility is meant
primarily to define the aspects of our community
regulations which govern respect for the person
and property of others. As a Co-educational
institution with an increasing awareness of date-
rape, we have moved to alter the Code of Respo-
sibility to be more specific in its outlining of
offenses.

Date-rape is always a problem at any school,
and the Student Conduct Council re-worded part
of the code in order to be more sensitive to that
issue, and to give the Honor Council more guid-
ance in handling cases of that nature which may
come before it. We are not a civil-court or a court
of law, but we do have jurisdiction in these cases.

Davidsonian: Many pele wonder how the
Honor Council can deal w. cases which are
violations of the law. What 1...ction does the
Honor Council serve that is dift.~. >t from, or
more effective than the police or the .",‘tts?.
Howell: Date-rape is a violation of the .w, but
people, specifically victims, also have thie right to
bring the matter before the Honor Council. We
have no legal authority, but we do have jurisdic-
tion over the Davidson College community:
violations of people’s rights come before us in the
same manner as cases involving compromised
academic integrity. The new wording helps us
deal with these very difficult cases. Date-rape 1 is
a legal issue, but it is also a socjal issue, and that
is where our authority rests.

The Honor Council serves as another option
for the victim, to work through the college rather
than the courts. Date-rape is such a difficult issue
buteveryone needs to know that options to the law
do exist in the form of the Honor Council and the
Dean of Students Office. The interests of the
victim are in the best interests of the community
and the college, always. The council treats these

cases with the utmost confidentiality to protect

both the victim and the accused. I hope thateach
and every student knows that it is an option and
that we are responsive to their needs.
