4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1991

DAVID THOMPSON -Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor
OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor

TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
PETER FISHER-Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor
LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor
JIM CARS WELL-Davidson Arts Editor
WILL MONTGOMERY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY -Photography Editor
LEE PENNINGTON -Associate Photography Editor

The Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
Weekly”

SARAH GAYLE-Production Manager
CHRIS HOVELAND-Production Manager

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RH YNE- Advertising Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus. Manager

The Right To Be Idiots

Once again, several members of the Davidson community are in an uproar
about the actions of a few Patterson Court houses. During the week of October 14,
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity posted fliers advertising their annual “Electric
Jell-O” party. To be euphemistic, the posters were somewhat irksome to most
thinking human beings. In fact, they were downright stupid and offensive.

Next, at Phi Delta Theta’s “Air Band” party on October 19, a few students
employed an inflatable doll to simulate sexual acts in a manner which some
spectators claim resembled a gang rape. Members of the group performing writhed
ecstatically about with their polyethylene pal as the beer-drenched minions below
howled for gyrations lewder still.

As if “Air Band” wasn’t unpleasant enough already.

The question is not whether the Hods put up a bad flyer, or whether some
participants in “Air Band” took a few liberties with a plastic party guest. They
did*. The question presently before the community is how we shall deal with such
promoters of the lascivious. Some have suggested turning the matters over tothe
Patterson Court Council with the possibility of the fraternities in question incurring
punishments in the form of social probation. Others feel that the matter should be
entrusted to the Dean of Students Office. Yet another trio believe that some sort
of “co-ed committee should screen the acts before the damage is done.” (McCar-
thyism, we are pleased to see; still has a place in the hearts of today’s young.)

These people all seem to be forgetting that, although it’s not written this way, .
the First Amendment pretty much guarantees anybody’s right to be anidiot. There
are limits to such protection, but these cases are pretty clear. No branch of the
college administration should take official action against either of these fraterni-
ties. However offensive the content of their expression, the people under fire have
the right to express themselves like baboons, as they have.

The best way to show disdain for the SAEs and the Delts (or the members of
the offending “Air Band” group) is through personal expression. The Rusk house
was so upset with S AE’s flyer that they refused to contribute any funds to the party.
In fact, very few women attended the party at all. Choosing not to attend the social
functions of a group which offends you is more likely to affect change in their
attitudes than getting drunk at their parties as soon as they endure a period of
probation. In turn, the offending participants in the “Air Band” competition should
be persuaded by their friends and acquaintances to express better judgment rather
than be punished by the school.

Annoyingly enough, people do have the right to be offensive. Calling for their
punishment will accomplish nothing. Instead, such action would stifle the freedom
of expression for the entire student body. What sentiment would be next on the list
of “unacceptable notions for public expression” if we allow sexism to be the first?
The responsibility for promoting understanding and respect around the school lies
with individuals: if you’re that bothered by a flyer, skip the party. If someone hurts
or offends you with that which they consider funny, tell them. It’s up to you to act
because the college cannot be expected to police the speec.i of its students.

* Special thanks to Harold Ramis, author of the Animal House screenplay for
that line.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions
cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on eae Copyright is held by the
Trustees of Davidson College.

CLARENCE THOMAS IS ON REMEMBER THIS WEEKEND

THE SUPREME COURT ius

Letters

SET YOUR CLOCKS BACK

Es

UNITED PRRTOLET S/F DAU TOW) DAN NONE mm

Two Houses Offend Students

To the Editor:

The weekend of Octo-
ber 20th greeted us with
SAE’s lovely party flyer - a
drawing of a woman on all
fours with her buttocks in
the air. The flyer had the
following caption, “Carrol
the collie says 'I’d do any-
thing to get some jello.’”

This is degrading, dis-

More disturbing is a few of
the SAE’s flippant attitudes
toward the message they are
sending to women. Let’s
face it, you have already
; angered everyone with the
lesbian/dork flyer. Why do
you continue to promote this
callous fraternity boy beer-
guzzling insensitive image?
The flyers should be repre-

The fact that the flyer
designer included the Rusk
House name on the flyer
upsetsus. WetoldourID’ers
and monitors not to attend
the party, and withdrew our
financial support as well. It
is sad that we must resort to
such extensive measures to
ensurecommondecency; but '

gusting, and malicious. — sentative of your house. See "Herzig " on page 6
In Defense of Oma Blaise
To the Editor: In reference to their couldsavetheir lives. AIDS

After reading First
East’s comments on Ms.
Blaise’s- weekly column,
“Sexuality and Health,” we
cannot help but respond. Its
obvious sarcastic intent leads
us to believe that Mr. Peters
and others would find it quite
humorous to look down one
day and find a special “love
present” growing in their
lower region. This cavalier
attitude could lead to serious
health problems for these
men in the future.

concerns about Mumsey and
Dadda, they are in college
now, and we are sure their
parents would want them to
make informed decisions
about sexuality. Let’s face
it: parents know about sexu-
ality. We are all evidence of
that. There is no-need to
hide the Davidsonian from
them for fear that they might
be disgusted with the topics
addressed by Ms. Blaise.
They wouldrather these men
learn from the facts that

and all other sexual diseases
are no joke. Besides caus-
ing infertility (what a blow
totheir huge maleegos), they
can lead to death.

If they truly would like
to read an article on “bisex-
ual necrophiliacs with a
penchantfor bestiality,” why
don’t they share their vast
knowledge with the rest of
us and write for the
Davidsonian?

See "Reinertsen"on page 6

A "Concerned Parent" Writes

To The Editor:

The regular Sexual Dis-
ease feature by Oma Blaise
sure is comforting to read.
No students need to worry
about continuing to forni-
cate as long as the dreaded
STD’s are detected in time.
And it was good to read that
genital warts are forever, so
little is lasting these days...

Like the flimsy condoms
being distributed free in
dorms. How responsible of

the students to demand a.

better heavy duty brand!
Should last from one girl to
the next. :

Nice to see that the col-
lege is 100% behind facili-
tating responsible behavior
among sexually active stu-

dents. What about the rest,
the sexually comatose?
What does Davidson do for
them ?

“Sexually active” cer-
tainly sounds preferable to
sexually otherwise. But what
group of students is the most
active? Which is taking an
active stand, and which is

Staking our culture’s assault
of sexual pressure lying
down? You better believe
students who are demon-
Strating fidelity to their fu-
ture mates are fighting a
battle everyday toretain their
virginity. One major battle
strategy is to keep plenty
active in physically healthy
ways.

Responsible sexually

active students do not exist.
Premarital sex is selfish sex.
For thatreason no amountof
goop or rubber can make it
“responsible”.

Active sexually respon-
sible students do exist. Let’s
support them. Here’s one
idea how: a regular column
in the Davidsonian on how

‘to Say no to sexual pressure,

how to show love ion other
ways, how to meet other
sexually responsible stu-
dents, how to hang on to
some semblance of common
sense. Anyone gotany other

_ Supportive ideas?

Sincerely,
A Concerned Parent
(A dying breed)

Obscenities Are Inappropriate

To the editor:

I have recently become
aware of the obscene lan-
guage yelled by Davidson
students at spectator sports.
A few weeks ago at the

Davidson vs. UNC Charlotte

mens soccer game, I was
Sitting in the middle of a
group of students. We were
surrounded by faculty
members and their families,
parents of athletes, children
in the community, anda few

elderly people. I was em-
barrassed by the strings of
obscenities students were
hurling at referees and play-
ers on the visiting team.

See "Mullins" on page 6
