THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, AUGUST 19, 1991 5

DAVID THOMPSON-Editor in Chief
WALTER PRICE-Executive Editor
DAVID SMYTH-Associate Editor
CHRIS HASS-Assistant Editor

° ° OMA BLAISE-Assistant Editor
The Dabsidsonian
TOM KOONCE-News Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate News Editor
HEATH HARDAGE- Opinions Editor
PETER FISHER-Associate Opinions Editor
MAY MARTIN-Campus Living Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College

JIM CARSWELL-Davidson Arts Editor
Weekly”

WILL MONTGOMERY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER;Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB.-Associate Sports Editor
HOLT HATHAWAY-Photography Editor

DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE-Advertising Manager

_time.

Welcome Back

The end of August once again marks the return of Davidson
students back to their beloved campus for yet another year. Another
year of classes, athletics, school activities, and, of course, life on
Patterson Court. Cars line the paths in front of the dormitories and
apartments, wood which will someday become lofts crowd the
hallways, recycling containers overflow. Not much is different from
any year in the past.

This year, however, The Davidsonian urges the student body to
help make things a little bit better than they have been before. Any
student at Davidson can contribute to the health of the community,
and the Davidsonian board hopes that the students will rise to the
™ challenge at hand by actively engaging in activities which effect the
college.

Davidson has several organizations, which, with appropriate stu-
dent involvement, can dramatically improve life in the community.
The YSSC, Quips and Cranks, and committees on the Union all add
to the school, but in order for these groups to be effective they need
your input and participation. Let's not limit our campus activity to
showing up for class without a hangover. Instead, let's all take the
extra time and effort necessary to engage in a more positive Davidson
experience.

Leave Them Alone

With the arrival of each freshman class into the ranks of Davidson
College comes the inevitable barrage of eager sophomores checking
out the new meat and offering the incessant tales of the joys of
pledging a fraternity. This sort of rushing usually begins as soon as
~ the first night back parties for upperclassmen are over.

Davidson College, however, restricts freshmen from attending
parties on the Court until several weeks into the school year. The
school bars the freshmen from the court so that they may adapt —
smoothly to college life. The policy encourages freshmen to socialize
with their classmates, and without the alcohol so easily available on —
the Court. After several weeks of getting used to Davidson, freshmen
can participate in Patterson Court activities.

Unfortunately, the spirit of the college's policy is all but ignored by
most fraternity members. The houses skirt the policy by rushing
freshmen at hall parties and off-campus events during the first Tow
weeks of school, fearing that other fraternities will "get the jump" on
them with the freshman class. Such activity is utterly contradictory
to the self-selection system at Davidson.

The Davidsonian hopes the Patterson Court houses will agree
among themselves to leave the freshmen alone until they are allowed
_ onto the Court. The new students have enough to worry about here
z without the added concern of beat or being rushed before their

LEIGH MCKEEVER-Campus Living Editor

seneN

PHOTO oF THREE MISSING DEMOCRATIC CAN IDIDATES,
THE WHITE HOUSE DENIES THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

LEE PENNINGTON Associate Photography Editor

Andrew Spainhour

MORELAND SMITH-Circulation & Bus Manager

The Freshman Experience:
Is it really so different?

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of

Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our

rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student |
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

cost $25 per year. Advertising rates available on request. Copyright is held by the

Trustees of Davidson College.

While this space is usually
reserved for the "Letters to
the Editor” section of The
Davidsonian, the lackofany
letters yet makes their publi-
cation impossible. Andrew
Spainhour is a junior from
Concord, NC and will be
writing a weekly column for
our opinions section.

The Davidson freshman
experience conjures up vivid
memories. Ask any upper-
classman. Some will recall
with unusual fondness ev-
ery detail of their first week
at Davidson. For them, the
year has’been preserved on
an unending mental vide-

“otape, with the rosy spots

highlighted, and the tough
spots edited out. Others will
always remember the sear-
ing heat, the seemingly

| never-ending speeches in

Love, the roommate who
was allergic to you, your

music, and your friends, but
ay

will choose to forget when a
faculty advisor spent hours
cooking dinner for advisees,
giving up the better partof a
weekend afternoon. Be they
good memories or ones bet-
ter left forgotten, we all
remember what being a
freshman was all about, and
the stories are colorful. But
why? What, if anything,
causes such strength of vi-
sion, or actually, revision?
Is Davidson really so differ-
ent that its freshmen’s lives
are actually changed inexo-
rably by the experience? I
think so. It is worth saying
that Davidson, as a commu-
nity, makes the effort to
create and foster a freshman
experience that is uncom-
monly special and occasion-
ally strange. Davidson cher-
ishes cake races, first
Davidson kisses, regattas

featuring boats made with .

less than ten dollars, flicker-
ball games, library tours with

IT ALL STARTED WITH A
SIMPLE LIE To MAKE LIFE
EASIER

THEN | LIED To COVER
FoR THAT LIE

a

a cameo appearance made
by Dr: Davidson , and, yes,
even Dean Terry.

The point is, Davidson
can brag sincerely, without
the vaguest hint of boastful -

college catalogue linguese,

that it treats its freshmen ina
unique manner. Davidson
certainly never promises its
new students perfection
(and, by the way, some
schools do), yet it does as-
sure each freshman some
unforgettable experiences.
At Davidson, you'll never

forget your hall counselors,
or the first person you actu-

ally befriended, or the first
time you set foot in the
Commons and sensed the
smell that would be consis-
tently the same for an entire
year. You always remem-
ber the Honor Council pres-
entation, the first hall'mixer,
and the relief you felt when
classes began and youcould
actually rest. Memories,

AND LIED SoME MORE To
COVER uP THOSE LIES

&

