16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL15, 1991

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

Karen Hester, Davidson Alumna, Speaks Out About Sexuality

By Sara Carlson
Karen Hester, promotion director for Redwood Cultural
Work, a non-profit, multi-cultural. arts organization in
Oakland, CA, will be speaking at Davidson on Friday, April
19 in the Union.

Davidsonian: Could you tell us about your activities
planned for Alumni Weekend?

Hester: Anne Stanback, Naricy Warren, and I are going to
lead a forum on Friday at four o’clock about the lesbian and
gay movement in the nineties. Each one of us is going to
speak for five or ten minutes about our own experiences
being lesbians and about the lesbian and gay movement.
Then we’re going to open for questions and answers and
hopefully have a lively discussion.

Davidsonian: What do you wish to accomplish by coming
back to speak at Davidson?

Hester: We want to have a very visible out presence as
lesbians, and to say that being a lesbian can be a really
powerful and wonderful thing in the world. One of my main

purposes is to try to foster more‘Communication and more*

discussion about gays and lesbians.

There are gays and lesbians on the Davidson campus,
but because it’s so homophobic there people don’t even
have asupport system. There are no speakers or any kind of
gay and lesbian cultural movements. Because of that, the
students, faculty, staff, and whole campus community are
not being enriched by the lives of gays and lesbians free to
be out and talk about who they are.

On a socictal level, that is creating invisibility which
makes it very difficult to be a gay or lesbian student on
campus at Davidson right now. The few students I’ve
spoken to feel very isolated, and I think that is very un-
healthy. In a university setting, people should be able to
have the freedom to explore all parts of themselves, includ-
ing their sexuality. Unfortuately, the atmosphere at Davidson
is very stifling for people.

We hope to start the dialogue going and to encourage
students to organize themselves into. coming out of the
closet. Wealso hope to encouardge faculty and staff to come
out of the closet and be role models for other gays and
lesbians. I understand that that can be a really courageous
act right now at Davidson, but people need to be coming out
and organizing.

The slogans right now that ACT-UP bas used that
“Silence = Death” and “Action = Life” I think are very true
inalotof ways. With the increasing violence against gays
and lesbians nationwide, literally, silence does equal death.
Ina boader context,-action equals life; just by finding out
who youare and acting on that youliveamorerich life. That
has to do with first of all coming out to one’s self and then
to one’s community.

Davidsonian: What was it like to be a lesbian at Davidson
ten years ago?

Hester: I didn’t know I was. a lesbian ‘when I was at
Davidson. Nancy did and she transferred. ‘That’s what life
was like. It was so stifling that she ended up transferring her
junior year. Neither Anne nor I both knew that we were
lesbians when we were at Davidson. ni

I don’t remember any kind of discussion, the words
“gay” or “lesbian” coming up in the four years of classes I
took at Davidson. In Humanities or any kind of historical
surveys it was never that mentioned that as many as ten
million witches were killed during the middle ages, and that
a lot of those women were lesbians.

There wasa lotof invisibility going on. Ilook back now

and realize that, of course, some of the people I knew were |

gay or lesbian. Life for them was totally closeted; they had
no safe space to come out. That doesn’t seem to have
changed at all.

Davidsonian: What suggestions do you have for coping
with living in a closeted community?

Hester: The main thing of course is to organize. That is the
only way change willcome about. People need to be calling
ameetings. Hopefully we’ll help encourage those kinds of
mectings to take place. Forming a gay and lesbian student
union on campus is notenough. Itneeds to have faculty and
staff support. With that support people will have an oppor-
tunity to explore both the joys and the fears of being gay or
lesbian.

Once people get organized and find out who each other
are they can begin education on campus. It’s important to
form panels, go into classrooms. For instance, in any class
on sexuality or psychology, professors should be requesting
panels on what it is like to be gay or lesbian.

Organize a gay and lesbian ‘and bisexual week at
Davidson, bring speakers in both from the community and
nationally. Show films, present the culture. We havea very,
very rich culture, no question about that. Alsoit’s important
for students to form a support “rap” group. I think this has
happened at Davidson before in the Counseling Center.

It’s really important to be able to explore intimately
what it means to be an oppressed minority in this country
and to deal with the whole coming out process. For a lot of
people in college coming out is going to be one of the critical
issues. Coming out to one’s self, to one’s friends, to one’s
family. Those are amazing acts of courage people have to
take every day in their lives. Coming outis never easy, and
it doesn’t necessarily get easier. Those kinds of things are
what students should be doing, could be doing, if they were
even aware of the possibilities.

I would think there is some kind of sensitivity training
both for hall counselors and faculty and staff on lots of issues
including rascism and sexism. I would hope that that would
happen for homophobia, also. We need to start training the
people who are in positions of authority and responsibility
to be sensitive to gay and lesbian issues and to be aware of
them and to be supportive. A lot of that is just combating
ignorance. The only way that can happen is for gay and
lesbian. people to organize. It won’t happen from the
administration on down, it’s got to happen from the bottom
up. ‘

Davidsonian: There has been a lot of controversy lately
about “outing,” publicizing someone’s sexual orientation
against his/her will. If you could offer your opinions on it.

Hester: There has been a lot of misinformation, too. It’s
a very controversial topic in the gay and lesbian comunity.
I don’t think it’s helpful to out somebody when they don’t
want to be outed. People should be allowed to find their own
identity and go through a coming out process.

I do think it’s appropriate to out someone who is doing
major damage to the lives of gays and lesbians, This has
come up more for people who are in positions of power in

politics that are voting against, for instance, domestic part- .

ners legislation, or some kind of legislation that would

benefit gays and lesbians, and yet they are a gay or lesbian ©

themselves. So it’s their own internalized homophobia
that’s letting them contribute to the oppression of their own
kind. And in that instance I personally have no problem with
outing. I think that those are the kinds of places where we
need to expose the hypocrisy.

Davidsonian: Ate there issues you want to address in this
interview before you come out to Davidson and are talking
to the students? :

Hester: I would want to say, don’t die wondering. I don’t
think that lesbianism can be relegated to who you’re sleep-
ing with, what you’re doing in the bedroom. I think that it’s
much more of a pervasive emotion and feeling. If women
have been your major support, when you think about with
whom have you felt most alive, if that’s with women, then

’ J would say you’re probably a‘lesbian, whether you’re

acting on it or not.

I’m going to talk at the forum about the idea of compul-
sory heterosexuality that we all grew up with which starts
very early onin our families and in society. Itsays that when
you grow up, if you’re a good girl, you’re going to fall in
love with and marry some man and live happily ever after.
People need to understand and realize their choices. I know
for me growing up, the idea of being a lesbian was not even
anything I considered, I’m angry about that. I had to doa
lot of struggling and experiencing before I realized that |
was a lesbian. I cut off acertain part of my life, cutoffa part
of my feelings and emotions thatI think are really important
parts of who I am.

What I hope is that we’ll be talking to people as they’ re
searching to find themselves, and that when they see the
three of us, lesbians who are happily lesbians (although
we’re continually struggling against the homophobia that is
in society) that they will say, “yeah, I can see myself there,
Ican explore who Iam and I have the support, in myself and
in friends, to do that.”

Davidsonian: Are there any kinds of literature or other
resources that people can turn to?

Hester: We will be providing a booklist that’s put out by
Giovanni’s Room, a large gay and lesbian bookstore in
Philadelphia. It’s a mail-order list. There are countless
materials that are incredible resources. Also, we’re going to
be providing a women’s music list from Ladyslipper, which,
is based in Durham, NC.

I know that for a lot of lesbians who came out when I
did, and also those who came out earlier in the seventies or
eighties,music was one of the main ways to explore lesbi-
anism and'to find out about the women’s music movement.
Culture has played areally important role in creating the gay
and lesbian community. It’s really important for people to
check out the literature, as a way to reach out to the whole
international gay and lesbian movement that is certainly
hard to know about at Davidson.

Davidsonian: Do youhaveany comments directed towards
the heterosexual students here, in terms of how they can best
be good friends and good support?

Hester: The main thing is education and being open,
understanding that one out of ten friends is gay or lesbian.
They need to be supportive ofthat. Weall have a lotof inter-
nalized homophobia and need to really examine what that’s
about.

. If somebody tells a homphobic joke in your company,
as a straight person, you need to say, “that’s notacceptable,
that’s homophobic.” In the same way that whites can be
supportive of people of color and when a rascist joke is told,

‘just say “that doesn’t work, it’s not funny, it’s hurtful.”

That’s really the way to be supportive, just to be open and
to educate one’s self.

Davidsonian: Is there anything else that you need to say?

Hester: I really appreciate the fact that there are people on
campus who have been supportive of us coming in and
giving atalk. We first started talking about coming back for
our reunion and having some kind of forum and coming out
because we felt like it was important for people to know who
we are and not to come back with any part of ourselves

concealed. Ihad this worst pipeiioare that we were going to

The Davidsonian Staff hones. van all

on aC 0 Kb3 a

shave a great summer.

