20

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9 1991

Thé editors, ever sensitive to the tensions and tribulations on campus, are striking back at all this nastiness witha dose of silliness. We're reprinting this tidbit from last
year's Davidphonian in order to give everyone a much needed laugh before exams. Thanks to Richard Terry for his sense of humour.

T HE BACK END INTERVIE

W

Richard Terry: A Man With a New Hallucination

The Davidphonian learned recently thatRichardTerry,
director of Residence Life here at Davidson, has changed
his vision, the one he described in the now-famous “Back
Page Interview” with The Davidsonian a few months ago.
Dick, as he is called by most students, was gracious enough
to sit down and talk about it with star reporters Joe Mom-
mah and G. Datty last week. Here is a partial transcript of
the interview.

Davidphonian: Tell us about your new vision, Dick.

Dick: Well, a lot of things have changed since I told The
Davidsonian that stuff about people being able to sleep
peacefully and privatcly whenever they wantto. The bottom
line is that we’ve totally scrapped that idea. Will Terry, to
whom, by the way, [am not related, told me that the faculty
didn’t think students should be sleeping anyway. You
probably already know that thcy are all committed to having
students studying twenty-four hours a day. And, frankly, I
have to say I agrcc. I mean, this is a college.

Davidphonian: So, Dick, where did you go from there?

Dick: We started tossing around a few ideas in the office a
\, couple of months ago. I came up with “a campus with a
turkcy in every potand acarinevery driveway.” There were
alot of problems with that one, though. As you know, Bob
Collins wants to tow every car, and the whole thing seemed

Dick: It’s really nothing to be admired. I’m a residence life
officer; that’s what I do. And let me add that I’ve run this
idea past Will, and he’s behind me all the way. We think
we’ve come up with an alternative to my old vision that the
whole campus will-be able to live with. For the students,
there is the security that comes from knowing that someone
is really committed to helping you, to making your life that
much easier. For the faculty, there is the assurance that all
students, no matter where they live, will be able to study in
a well-lit atmosphere. As for me, I’ve found a new passion,
anew driving force in my life of which I can truly say I am
proud.

Davidphonian: Congratulations... On a lighter note, what
can you tell us about other plans for the Residence Life
Office?

Dick: Well, we’re going to continue some practices that we
have gotten really, good at. One of those is keeping the
bathrooms stocked with toilet paper. I might mention that I
almost made that my vision, but we felt that it would be too
open to ridicule from the students. In addition, the janitors
are going to keep on collecting anything and everything that
people leave out in the halls. All that clutter could be a real
hazard in the event ofa fire, and we are completely commit-
ted to the safcty of all the students. Plus, I myself have

We gave some thought to commandeering the west
wing of Chambers to make into dorms, but with all these
advantages, the Motel 6 idea really cannot go wrong. Plans
took longer to finalize than we expected, but work will
definitely begin next week. The contract with the construc-
tion company has a clause that provides for a monetary
punishment for every day that the job goes over schedule. So
all those who live near Patterson Court can expect to hear
construction cranking up about five or so every morning the
next few days before school ends. It should be the same as
it has been for the seniors being woken up by construction
on the new apartments every morning, only a little earlier.
The students don’t have anything to worry about, though.
I’m giving them first priority in my vision, so that they will
have light to study by at that early hour.

Davidphonian: It sounds like you guys over there in the
Residence Life Office are really working hard.

Dick: Well, no not really. It’s a popular misconception
around Davidson hat we doin Residence Life is really
important and préssing. Actually, we have a lot of time to
kill around the office, and I just decided to get off my buns
and get some stuff done this school year. Judge the results
for yourselves. Oh, and let me add that I hope I’m not
shocking too many of your readers by revealing that our
office is not dealing with crises 24 hours a day. It’s just that,

"Did I forget to check the bulbs on 2nd Watts
today?”
sort of extravagant. Plus, one guy in the office was sure he
had heard something like that before. We had to go all the
way back to the drawing board. It was pure hell.

Davidphonian: That goal scems as noble as your last one.
Too bad it didn’t work out.

Dick: Yes, lagree, but I’m really excited about the new idea
we finally settled on. Here itis: I havea vision of acampus
where every light comes on cvery time a person flips the
switch. Too many timesa person on thiscampus will go into
aroom and try to turn on a light, only to be thwarted in the
attempt. That just is not fair, and it is the job of a residence

life director to ensure fairness for all students. So I have -

taken on the mission of making sure that every time a bulb

burns out there is someone there to replace it as aurny as.

possible.

I am a realist, though. I know this goal will not be
reached easily, but, by God, I’m going to try! Through
commitment to my goal and with the cooperation of the
students of Davidson, I truly believe that my vision will
become a reality by the end of the 1991-92 academic year.
Of course, all the pieces will have to fall into place, but I
have faith.

Davidphontae: God, I Iadmire you.

"I'm supposed to be a man-with a vision; this might
make me lose some credibility around here."

picked up a couple of good pairs: of socks and a nice red,
almost-new bicycle, and RLO has really supplemented its
budget through its fencing operation down on Independence
Boulevard. Here’s the really big news, though: we are
working on plans with Motel 6 to construct a new 100-unit
building right in the middle of Patterson Court!

Davidphonian: Wow! Tell me more!

Dick: Well, you are probably familiar with all the problems
we cause for rising sophomore girls. You know, we always
wait until the middle of June to give them final notice that
we are not going to offer them housing for the coming
academic year and they have to find their own place to live.
I got together with Will, and we decided that we were both
pretty darn sick of listening to a bunch of silly girls whine
about the fact that the only places left torent by that time are
in Cornelius. He had some other ideas about what we could
do to them, uh I mean for them, but I finally won him over
to the Motel 6 plan. The list of benefits is endless, I mean,
the girls get to live on campus, the college gets part of the

‘revenue through a special deal with the Motel, and we’ il

finally get all those Queens girls out of Belk. I really hate
seeing them leaving when I come into workeveryday. Now,

if they want todo something immoral witha Davidson guy,

they can do it in the proper place, a motel room.

"Ohhh, my reputation! Will's gonna smoke my
ass!"

well, only so much work goes into keeping a few college
dorms running smoothly.

Davidphonian: \tsounds tome like you are making the most
of your opportunity, though.

Dick: Well, whén Will Terry offered methisjob, he gave me
a few words of wisdom: I’ve never told anyone this before,
but he said, “I only gave you this job because I like your
name, but that doesn’t mean you can rest on your laurels for
the rest of your career. I want you to go out and make a
difference on this campus!” I’ve taken those words to heart,
and, well, I think I’ve done a pretty darn good job.

Davidphonian: On that note, let’send this interview. Please,
Dick, let me express to you the thanks of the whole
Davidphonian staff, heck, the whole campus, for the great
job you do. And, actually, we do understand that you do
work hard.

With that, DickTerryranaway through the halls of Belk
in his quest to find a rebellious light bulb. We, Joe Mommah
andG.Datty, couldonly sitand. think, full ofadmiration and
love for aman who had stolen our hearts and was destined

_ to steal the hearts of everyone else at Davidson. Watch out,
‘you could be next! Ee tah ep ie meni i
