4 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Confusion
Continued from page 1

5th. There is nothing in the Alcohol Policy stating that freshmen can
only attend dry parties in September. First-year students can frequent

all weekend parties on the court, regardless of the beverage served. -

David Wright, president of the Patterson Court Council, ex-
pressed concern over the new policy. “The way it is being enforced
is destroying an environment conducive to responsible drinking,”
said Wright. “The policy itself is a beautiful piece of work, but the
current emphasis on spot-checking punishes those who are respon-
sible drinkers and could drive parties off-campus,” said Wright.

Wright was also worricd that the new policy could create a more
tense, less enjoyable social life, and in the long run hurt Davidson
recruiting.

In a response to such criticism, Dean Terry emphasized that the
new policy needed time to work effectively. Terry said, “Whenever
you change the status quo, a tense situation is created.” But he said
that the College is not considering changing the policy, atleast in the
short term.

Kurt Holmes, recently hired by the Dean of Student’s and
Residence Life Officc to oversce Patterson Court activities, admitted
that the policy is nowhere near where it should be, but that “we’re
getting closer.” He said that the policy is purposcly vague in some
areas to allow for adaptation.

One of Holmes' dutics is to oversee and coordinate the new
alcohol monitor system. The alcohol monitor’s job is not onc a lot
of pcople would want, admitted Holmes, but the gencral student body
docsn’t realize that students working as monitors keeps Davidson
from having to hire “civilians” or off-duty police officers. Holmes
said that he would “like students to be helping and regulating cach
other.”

‘Currently, there are twenty-four students working as alcohol
monitors. Holmes said that there have been problems. finding
students to work some of the partics, especially sincc he will not hire
somconc from a house to work that house’s party. There also must
be two monitors and one policeman at each party. The student
alcohol monitor’s duties are:

-to monitor the front door (especially at BYO partics, to make
sure that orily twenty-one year olds bring in alcohol).

-to assista member of the house at the top of the stairs, checking
IDs and enforcing the one-beer-up-the-stairs rule.

-(depending on the party) to monitor the back door.

-to help in gencral control of the party (assisting the intoxicated
and dealing with those who become destructive or abusive).

Holmes would like to sce this last “party control” function to
become the primary job of the alcohol monitors.

The AEC will should meet this week to decide on the penalties
for the 16 people who received violations last weck. The alcohol
policy docs-not specifically state what these punishments will be.
Holmes said that he believed the AEC would be fairly Icnient when
dealing with a person’s first violation, but would deal with repeat
offenders more severcly.

Wells

Continued from page 2

2000. She plans to work with her staff, student leadership, the faculty
executive committee, and the trustees to implement this plan.

Cable Wells said, “A longstanding, deep admiration for the
institution,” and for President Kuykendall brought her to Davidson
and she feels privileged to be here. She says she is “decply chal-
Ienged” by her new position at Davidson, but based on her past
expericnce and her current work with CASE, Cable Wells is well
equipped to confront this challenge.

The Davidson Garden
Club's Annual Sale

Will Be Held Saturday September 12,.9

-AM- 12 Noon on the Davidson Village

Green. Plants, Food and Attic Treasures
Will Be Offered... Come Early. Rain Date

September 19

Somalia

Continued from page 1
Menkhaus left the conference

“mildly optimistic” about the

U.N.’s direction in solving the
Somali crisis. “We focused on
three areas. First, the problems of
getting humanitarian aid to the
people, secondly the use of peace
keeping forces and finally longterm
conflict resolution,” Menkhaus
said. :

For Somalia, the immediate
concern is getting food aid to the
“two million Somalis at eminentt
risk of famine . . . an unparalled
number,” according to Menkhaus.
Menkhaus compared getting food
to those in need to a “Mad Max”
movie where “swarms of bandits
are stealing to eat or make mone
selling the food. The country is
controlled by small groups of ban-
dits who roam the countryside in
bands of 12 to 14, carrying AK-
47’s, looting and controlling the
distribution of food relief supplies.”

Inorderto get food to those in
need in the Somali countryside,
the U.N. is sending in approxi-
mately 3500 troops to aid food
distribution. “There is a need for
much higher levels. of force and
they are going to have to use it,
they will be engaged,” Menkhaus
said.

According to Menkhaus, the
United States hasa key role to play
in resolving the situation in Soma-
lia. “The U.S. has the financial.
means to get food and the logisti-
cal ability to moveit. Itis going to
take a longterm commitment by
the most powerful to resolve this
crisis,” Menkhaus said.

However, Menkhaus ques-
tions whether sufficient interna-
tional aid will be forthcoming at a
time when the world’s financial
powers are cutting back on their

‘ aid packages. “Compared to the

Situation in Yugoslavia, there has
been little international reaction.

When the U.N. appealed for

money, response was low, mostly
due to donor fatigue.”

“In Yugoslavia, there is im-
mediate political fallout. Com-
paratively, in Somalia, the impact
is on Somalia’s African neighbors
but doesn’t directly affect the U.S.
and Europe. But when Yugoslavia
burns, the potential effects across
Europe are extordinary. It matters
in Europe and worrics the U.S.,”
Menkhaus said.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

Hope You Had A
Great Labor Day in
Class!

we Jy,

Welcome Back

Mudents!!

Davidson Screen Printers,
your local supplier. for
T-shirts, Sweatshirts and
other imprinted sportswear,
is now conveniently located
just down the street from the

Davidson College campus.

= Front j Back
Visit Us and Pick Up Your Davidson "Paw"
T-shirt for just $8.00 including Tax!
(offer extended through September 1Pih)
z Davidson

: fm OCreen —

ae #4 Printers
428 South Main Street

P.O. Box 126

‘Davidson, N.C. 28036
Tel. (704) 892-5973
_ Christine & Ken Hageman

‘We specialize in working with Organizations
and Clubs on special event and identity items.

