THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

Snow

Continued from page 1

vival depends on how youcan work
the media.” With this, he talked
about the very real disconnection
from society that politics involves.

Concern for upcoming primaries -

and the economic situation pretty
much blocks everything else out,
he said.

His third tip, involved the fact
that, “sound bites make the news,
not history.” A sound bite is a
concluding, definitive statement
that concludes an argument. The
famous phrase, “read my lips, no
new taxes”, was a sound bite.
Unfortunately, people read the
sound bite without understanding
the argument. Snow said that,
consequently, sound bites can kill
you if they don’t work out. “You
have to make an argument in a
speech, and you have to be intelli-
gentin your usage of clear, concise
language,” Snow said.

Snow then turned to address-
ing the problems of our nation. He
believes that with the Cold War
overand the old ties with ourneigh-
bors being severed by their in-
creasing independence, weare ina
bit of a period of fumbling along.

He pointed out that, “The lack

of an idea matters as much as the
presence of an idea.” He also
emphasized his belief in the im-
portance of trivia because trivia is
fun and trivial ideas matter.

He concluded his speech by
addressing three key issues that he
is very concerned with. His first
concem evolved around the racial
relations of Americans, and that
serious changes need to evolve.
Snow asserted that David Duke
and Al Sharpton are two villains of
society that hurt the possibility of
change.

Secondly, he said that social
projects and institutions in our
country have experienced difficulty
and have degenerated to a point of
“forced progress.” Snow said it is
time for those responsible to, “just
tell the truth for once.” He cited
the problem with the inadequacy
of our nation’s public schools and
the problem with our social secu-
rity programs as examples. Snow
said that our nation’s, “moral
compass has gone off-center.”
People are more concerned with
how they will look than with what
is going on, he said.

Lastly, Snow said that toler-
ance is a serious problem in our
society. He said, “Political cor-
rectness is...a stale form of eti-
quette.”

Inhis question/answer session,
Snow remarked that the President

is a complicated man, willing to
make compromises for small gains
toward long-term goals instead of
remaining steadfast.

Snow also outlined the proc-
ess by which the State of the Union
Address and other of the Presi-
dent’s speeches were written. This
year, the address revolved around
the economic package President
Bush is proposing, and it was
worked on by a committee piece-
meal with comments from the

President, his advisors and his.

friends.

For any of the President’s
speeches, the process begins with
areview of Bush’scomplete sched-
ule of speaking engagements, and
with the assignment of particular
speeches to various Project Offi-
cers. The officer(s) then research
and write up a preliminary speech
that goes through the President and
any other necessary commentators.
A revised copy is worked out and
speech cards are prepared for Bush.
He pointed out that speech writers
usually have a feel for what will
resonate, and they will sometimes
insist that certain points of aspeech
remain intact no matter what.

Snow then spoke about Pat
Buchanan. “Pat Buchanan,” he
remarked, “is a novelty right now -
a political pet rock.” Snow be-
lieves that Buchanan should drop
out of the race after Super Tuesday

=e

movie passes from the Union.

Midnight Wednesday, February 19 - 7:00 a.m. Thursday, February 20
- Atmidnight of Feb. 19, a student placed an envelope under the door of another student’s dorm room
in Cannon Dorm. Between the above times, that envelope, which contained prizes from the Student

Health Options Committee, was removed from the inside of the dorm room. The envelope contained 10.
- $1 gift certificates from Carolina Cones, 2 - $25 gift certific cates from The Backstreet Cafe and 2 - he:

9:45 p.m, Wednesday, February 19 - 5:00 p.m. Thursday, February 20.
Between the above times, some person(s) entered the unlocked Kappa Sigma fraternity house and
removed a “Busch” light fixture from its hook above the pool table. The fixture is valued at $175.
9:00 p.m, Friday, February 21 - 1:00 p.m. Saturday, February 22
Between the above times, some person broke off the wing of a bird hood ornament on a student’ scar
parked at the Smith House. The damage is estimated at $30.
9:30 a.m. Friday, February 21 - 9:00 a.m. Monday, February 24 .
Between the above times, some person carried/rode away a student’s bike from the bike rack on the
south side of Chambers Building. The bike, which was left unsecured, is valued at $400.

make it on time.

Check ZA/s out!:

Student-Run

AA and Adult Children of Alcchclies Meeting
Every Wednesday at 8:00
Second Floor Davidson College Presbyterian Chach

These meetings are confidential meetings for
anyone who has been, or is being, affected by
alcoholism, addictive behavior; or who has been a
member of a dysfunctional family (one that has
suffered a divorce or any other kind if disruption). If
any of this applies to you, or even if you are just
wondering whether or not you should go, you could ©
probably use the meeting. You are not alone. Please -
think about it. You make no commitment by attending
and you can leave at any time. Come and learn. You
won't regret it. Don't hesitate to come fate if you can't

All are welcome!

at the latest. Otherwise, he said,
the press will “gut him” over prob-
lems in the past. If Buchanan per-
sist, he said, the Bush administra-
tion will seek to portray him as
“the biggest right wing fanatic since
Hitler.”

He talked favorably about Dan
Quale saying he is a smart, tough
and ambitious man that simply has
trouble in front of the camera. He
reported that both Quale and Bush
receive coaching in speaking pos-
tures.

Snow spoke about the cam-
paign, and what we, as viewers,
can expect. He expressed concern
over the fact that politicians tend to
talk down to blacks because there
are so many problems in lower
income black communities. He
maintained that not only were the
“Willie Horton” commercials of
’88 not a racial ploy, but that they
were also not even a tactic used by

President Bush’s campaign staff.
Anindependent group, without the
approval of the President, for-
warded those adds.

Snow does not anticipate a
“Willie Horton” this year, and he
objects to this kind of mud-sling-
ing “lowest common denomina-
tor” politics. “Any Presidential
election is as much a referendum
on character as it is on issues,” he
said.

Snow concluded by giving
some important tips on being a
journalist. He advised those who
want to be journalists not to major
in journalism, but instead to major
in philosophy, psychology, politi-
cal science or anything else that
gets you to think alot (Snow was a
philosophy major). “Ideas matter,
and what you study at Davidson
matters,” he said.

