OPINIONS

MONDAY, APRIL 6 1992 5

David D. Smyth:

Korner Pub Adventures:

‘Don’t mess with merightnow,
kid, I’m a little tired. I’m tired of
moralizing, silent, temperant fac-
ulty members and deans. I’m tired
of Christian Laettner. I’m tired of
guys named Otis at Lakeside Auto-
motive trying to charge me $100
fora$45 muffler. (Otis, I was born
at night, but not /ast night.) I’m
tired of “select” committees say-
ing/alcohol is sending this college
to hell in a handbasket. And for
God’s sake, I am sick to death of
people misunderstanding and hat-
ing each other. Somebody give me
a break. * * *

When I woke in the morning I
went to the window and looked
out. It had cleared and there were
no clouds on the horizon. A good
day for frisbee, I thought, but I’d
have to pound out some witticisms
about Robert Herrick first. This
was the first bright Saturday in a
while; I was eager to get finished
so I could go play.

_ Asluck would have itmy friend
Tonjacalled after composition and
delivery. Could I come outtoromp
inthe spring’s first springlike day?
Absolutely. We gathered up the
kids and played for a while.
Kadima, frisbee, and amateur gui-
tar filled the lower IMAC field.
Chris bounded down the hill, alaw
school acceptance firmly in hand.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Everything was dandy.

Then David came. He enter-
tained designs of a wholly differ-
ent game. Did you ever play Star
Wars when you were a kid? Or
Cowboys and Indians? Or Cops
and Robbers? Well, after a half
hour of being numbingly bored by
the green grass and bright sky ol’
Dave thought it would be a good
idea to play Sun Also Rises.

“You can be Jake,” he gushed.

“Oh, thank you, David, I’ve
always aspired to impotency, alco-
holism, and unending bitterness.
I'll be Harris.”

When we made it out to the
gravelled parking lot of the Pub it
became readily apparent that we
were the only Davidsonians play-
ing on this particular Saturday. But
Mount Mourne seemed to be ably

represented, so we mosied on in to -

drain one of their kegs and shoot
some pool. Just me, David, Gabri-
ela, and Mike, hanging out with
the fellas and scorching the green
felt with our consummate billiard
skill.

I was horrible. Mike carried
me through each game with subtle
exhortations like: “Remember,
Dave, this time aim a little higher.
Don’t just not scratch. Make it.” I
was in the process of doing so

Modest Stillness and Humility

Class of 1992-We
Will Wrestle You For Food.

. It’s- Thursday. I have three
papers due. I’m drinking three
dollar wine. I haven’t done much
“research. I’m going out later to

party like a rock star. I haven’t
done my homework'in about a
month. TonightIgettobe Axl. Hi,
Mom.

Whyam Iacting like this? How
can I let my thoroughbred college
career stumble like a nag in the
home stretch? How can I blow the
final jumper with only thirty five
days on the clock? How can! miss
that 2 foot putt for an $80-some
odd thousand dollar sheepskin
prize? How many tired and silly
sports metaphors can Iemploy ina
single paragraph? Answers: Fear,
; and three (My athletic lexicon is,
I am afraid, tapped out at that).

Sheer panic, I confess, gov-
erms my actions. As you have
likely gathered from the preceding
paragraph, I am a.senior, and, as
such, eviction impends. It’s notas
if I really want to stay; any place
where someone can get away with

advocating in print the senseless -

waste of chicken life on Patterson
Court is certainly not for me. The
trouble is that I haven’t anywhere
to go. Right now, as Van Hagar
might remark, I am unemployed.
The jobsearch just isn’t what it
used to be.. Four short years ago,
you were the odd man out if you
hadn’t been accepted to graduate
school or landed some high paying

job. Today, however, fellow sen-

iors clap each other heartily over
the shoulders for scoring a dish-
washing internship with Pizza Hut,

Inc.

A few weeks ago I presented
myself to forty or so firms via the
ever-popular cover letter. There I
stood, in the white tie and tails of
laser print on high-quality bond
with the jeweled cufflinks of

David
Thompson

Macintosh font. My profession-
ally stlyed envelope served as a

silk top hat, and the practiced writ-

ing on the sheet within compli-
mented my outfit like Fred As-
taire’s cane. My opening sentence,
well honed, takes the hat from atop
my well slicked head, rolls it twice
down my arm, looks my reader
square in the eye and then ends the
world whimpering, “spare
change?” Few things are more
pathetic than an utterly, unquali-

Harris Meets Leather Girl

when a leather-clad thirty-some-
thing woman approached and asked
me where I was from.

Whatever could she want, I
asked myself. Does she recognize
me? Did my long lost twin Obadiah
show up on a milk carton some-
where?

“Uh, I’m from Davidson. I go
to Davidson College,” I stam-
imered, looking forsome hint as to
why she seemed so eager to assign
mé a particular value based on my
original whereabouts.

“But I’m from Charleston, South
Carolina, sort of.”

Out of the corner of my eye I
noticed that my friends had lined
up on a parallel bench and as-
sumed a what-have-we-here posi-
tion while I tried to figure out what
this crazy woman wanted.

She pressed on: “‘Well, that’s
good. I got this petition here. We
got a whole lot of signatures and
what we’ re tryin’ to do, we’ re tryin’
to keep the Confederate flag. All
the niggers are raisin’ hell, sayin’
it’s racist and everything. We’re
just tryin’ keep our flag.”

Well, this was off-putting, to
say the least. My triumvirate of
spectators breathed a subdued,
“Hmmm, how’ she going to get out
of this one?” I was a little taken
aback, so I decided to concentrate

fied English major in Pyrsait of
gainful employment.

’Tis not alone my begging let-
ter, good mother,

Nor customary suits for sol-
emn interviews, ~:

Nor windy suspiration of
forced dumb answers,

... These indeed seem,

For they are actions thata man
might show,

And damn ifIdon’ thave ahell
of a credit card bill.

By the time this article is in

print, (ewww, sounds a little like.

the intro to a poorly composed
suicide note, doesn’t it?) we will
have only thirty five days left in
school. A few years ago Tom
Allen. asked me if I remembered
mid-spring in second grade. Every
day you’d be staring at the calen-
dar not the clock counting down
the agonizing few days left before
summer vacation. He then in-
formed me that as a senior in col-
lege one does the opposite: he
indeed stares at the calendar and
counts down the days, but with the
certain determined intensity usu-
ally reserved for those approach-
ing execution.

It’s definitely time for me to

- go, I know this. I refuse to be one

of those pathetic alums who won’t
get the hell outa dodge after their
four years per customer limit has

expired. Besides, who’d want to’
hang out in a Trappist monestary |
I confess, how- |

anyway?

See "Thompson" next column

onher last pathetically-constructed
utterance and two words in par-
ticular, “keep” and “our.”

“So, by ‘keep,’ you mean fly
over government buildings, court-
houses, things like that?”

At this little hurdle the ganglia
that pass for her brain overloaded.
She fell back to her old faithful:
“Yeah, you know, all the niggers
are Sayin’ it’s racist” in her most
endearing You-know-how-it-is-
Charleston-boy tone.

I didn’t even want to approach
what she meant by “our.” Feeling
maligned enough that she would
think I might by intrigued by a line
as pitiful as hers, I let us both off
the hook: “Look, I’m sorry, but I
don’t want to be signing this.”

To help dampen the flames of
rage that appeared to be welling up
in this junior George Gallup Mike
and David began hurling mock
slurs: “You crazy liberal,” “Car-
petbagger.” I ducked to avoid any
loose beer bottles that might be
sailing from her side of the bar.

She verily hissed at the recre-,

ants: “Y’all must all be Yankees.”
Had we any guts we would have
politely answered, “Yes, and Jew-
ish as well, ma’am.” But oneof us-
-Gabriela, I think--quickly recalled
some old proverb about discretion
being the better part of valor. Si-

lence was probably our best friend.
We continued our game with
the stipulation that we would leave
when David and Gabriela tied up
the score or] was killed for betray-
ing the South. Fortunately we found
little use for such formalities be-
cause David and Gabriela aren’t
nearly as good as Mike and they
might never have caught up. After
realizing we just weren’t going to
make many friends out at the Pub
that day we headed home, nary a
scratch on my sweet red head.

* KK

In the morning it was raining.
A fog hadcome over the hills from
the lake. I thought about the previ-

_ Ous day’s adventure and thought it

would be really funny if it weren’t
so damn discouraging.

I’m tired of people like the
Korner Pub Ieather-girl with noth-
ing better to do but flaunt her dis-
mal petition to unsuspecting South-
erners like me. Her mentality drags
on our society like a gross tumor.
Oh, sad little leather-girl, I charge
thee, hence, and do not haunt me
thus.

Elgin

Continued from page 4

brothers availed themselves of our basement windows in broad daylight
under the very nose of the Dean of Students. A brother told me he
couldn’t understand what we were so upset about. The SAEs were just
doing what they had always done, he said.
Item: ATO folded my senior year, like coed houses before and since.
The SAEs erected a basketball goal over the walk in front of the now
empty ATO house. For all I know it’s still there, although a new
generation of students is unaware of its significance. Itis a final gesture
of contempt, and a lasting one. They shoot hoops over our grave.
Why amI writing thigsnow? Because it mightmakea difference now.

When I was student, all the protesting and letter-writing and hell-raising

we could doelicited nothing but “we’re real sorry--we’ Il see what wecan
do.” from the brothers and the shrugged shoulders from the Dean. now
it seems that someone is finally listening.

Believe it or not, I’m sorry things have come to such a pass for the
gentleman at number 5, Years of protection from the consequences of
their actions have served them ill. Their behavior has been allowed to
reach a point where they can no longer be shielded, and where apologies
and- pledges to reform no longer suffice. The SAEs I knew personally
were and are men of character and principle--but I beliove they would
have been so, and possibly more’ so, had they not belonged to this
fraternity, or had it not existed. And I believe Davidson will be a better

place without it.

Thompson

John A. Eglin ‘84

Continued from page 5

ever, that it’s not just my lack of employment that makes me so sad to go;
this place is my home. As often as I may have hotly expressed my too
multitudinous opinions regarding several college policies (i. e. bitched
and moaned to get attention), I’m gonna miss Davidson.

Aw, shucks, I’m getting all misty. Must be the Cisco. Well, 1’d love
to stick around and ramble, butit’s late, I’m drunk, andI’m interviewing
tomorrow for a position in shredded potato and hot oil supervision with
alocal branch of a leading corporation in the restaurant tana food service

industry. Just call me McWorthless.
