12

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992

No Bush

Continued from page 11

Union, Bush still insisted on snub-
bing Yeltsin, the democratically
elected president of Russia, and
supporting Gorbachev, who was
placed in power by the commu-
nists: The message to would-be
democratic reformers around the
world is clear. Don’t count on

Uncle Sam for any help until after -

you’ ve established yourself politi-
cally, militarily and economically.

Bush didn’t even recognize the.

independence of the Baltics until
after almost every country in Eu-
rope had already done so. Do we
really want our country to come in
last place in defense of freedom? Is
Bush too proud to helpastruggling
neighbor? Despite the non-exis-
tent Soviet threat, Bush continues
to testnuclear weapons on ourown
soil. The environmental conse-
quences of this are unknown.
Yeltsin, who has unilaterally sus-
pended nuclear testing in what was
the Soviet Union, has stated that if
the U.S. continues testing nuclear
weapons, he will be forced to be-
gin nuclear testing again in Russia.
Do you suppose George Bush
misses the cold war?

#6) Bush is C.I.A. No-
tice I don’t say Bush is Ex-C.1.A.
That’s because there is no such
thing. Once you are a member of

this octopus of hypocrisy and de-
ceit youare amember forlife. This
organization has been implicated
in the import of drugs into our
country, funding our ownenemies,
arranging for the prolonged cap-
tivity of American hostages, as-
sassination of democratically
elected foreign leaders, and cover-
ing up evidence of genocide all
over the world. As head of this
organization Bush took orders from
noone, and answered to no one for
the crimes he committed. In this
post he personally recruited
Manuel Noriega, (definitely), and
Saddam Hussein, (probably). Bush
led a program of erasing evidence
ofall pastand presentC.1.A. crimes,
particularly in Angola, where we
were enmeshed in a secret war for
more than a decade. Those under
him say he letthe guilty go free and
the innocent suffer in a policy he
called “Restoring the C.I.A.’s mo-
rale” Bush learned a valuable les-
son from those C.I.A.. days. It
doesn’t matter what you do, only
what you are caughtdoing. Noone
who has been a member of this
organization should be elected to
public office, as this attitude is not
conducive to healthy government.

#5) Bush was Involved
in Iran-Contra. I know, I know.
I might as well bring up Bush’s
role in the battle of Hastings, con-
sidering how the public haschosen
to forget about this episode, but

Kirby
Continued from page 11

as look at you. You don’t understand the cruel reality of living until you
have to worry about doing something that will make you enough money
to buy Wonder Bread and bologna at the store and pay your light bill
before they cut you off. Here at Davidson we complain because they put
the wrong mustard on our turkey sandwich in the Union or because the
keg went dry before we had a chance to “nurse” our eighth beer.

Thus, my plea to the Davidson Community for this year is to
take advantage of the opportunities that we all have here. We can still
disagree with one another and make efforts to improve our life here, but
let’s not waste our time whining while the lightsare on and wecan choose
not to eat our sandwich on that nasty Wonder Bread.

— ©
Birks

Continued from page 6
YOUR MONEY. (In fact, they need your money so badly that they’ve
decided to ask your parents for a contribution to the alumni fund even
though your parents might not even be alumni and you won’t be one for
three more years. Our parents were particularly pleased to discover this
additional component to the Davidson experience. Now everyone can.

feel like they’re a part of the Davidson family.)
Our point is just this. Whether you know it or not, you’re now
a paying customer in that great endeavor, Davidson, Inc. You (not the

faculty or the addled alumni or the board of trustees or the ground °

maintenance people or anybody else) are the reason that this institution
exists. It is your‘responsibility as a Davidsonian to leave it a stronger,
more socially and intellectually credible place than when you found it
four years before (besides, if you screw up after we’re gone, we’ ll look
bad). To quote the great non-Presbyterian Martin Luther, “Here I stand;

I can do no other so help me God.”

If it means challenging something as trivial as dining services’
“Bonus Bucks” scam (which limits meals solely to the Commons), by all
means challenge it. Were we to challenge such an inane system, we’d
point out that “Bonus Bucks” are hardly the “good deal” suggested in the
letter you may have received from the college this summer. You’ ve now
goteighty toa hundred “Bucks” to spend at the Union any time you want,
but you cannot eat a meal-carded lunch there. This is what’s known in
lay-speak as a “Rip-Off.” Freshpersons, until this semester the lunch
between classes at the Union was a bright spot in many a student’s day.
Now that sun has set. With honeyed words and a heart of flint, Carlton
Pritchard (Commons Czar) has denied this great joy to the Davidson
student, hard at toil in the fields of the Lord.

Now granted, the prose is worthless, but our meaning should be
clear. “Bonus Bucks” be damned; we want the Union back on meal plan!
Oh; and any other social or intellectual impediments which you noble
‘freshpersons find blocking your path, by all means challenge them. But
let’s get this Union thing straightened out first.

again, I must explain why this is
important. A: You are not sup-
posed to swap arms for hostages.
This is considered a dumb move
by most strategists. B: You are not
supposed to give weapons to people
who charge through the streets

shouting “Death to American Sa-

tan Pigs,” it’s a faux-pas. C: The
contras were a band of former sup-
porters of the ruthless dictator Sa-
moa, who got what they wanted by
torturing, murdering, dealing
drugs, and somehow conning
RonaldReagan into telling Ameri-
cans that they were.“‘The moral
equivalentof our founding fathers.”
D: Many within the Reagan ad-
ministration, including Oliver
North, and even some within the
Bush administration, have said that
Bush knew all about the covert
deal, which makes sense, if you
refer back to reason #6, And fi-
nally, George Bush has never told
the American people what his role
in the scandal was. Remember
when he was running for office

and he practically got into a knife -

fight with Dan Rather over this
issue? Iknow, this wasalong time
ago, but think hard, can you re-
member? Good, I knew youcould.
All Dan Rather did was ask Bush
what his role in the scandal had
been, but from Bush’s reaction one
mighthave thought Rather accused
him of molesting dead goats. In-
stead of demanding an answer, the
American people cheered and said
“See! Bush isn’t a wimp after all,
just look at him cuss out Dan
Rather.” The public danced like
marionettes on the end of Bush’s
strings. Perhaps Bush used the
Jedi mind trick. “This is not the
conspirator’you are looking for.
You can go about your business.
Move along...”

#4) Bush Caused War’

with Iraq. Though many of these
reasons will no doubt be contro-
versial, I doubt ifany will generate
as much anger as this, but lets look
atthe record. On October 29, 1989
Bush signed a document affirming
U.S. commitment to Iraq, despite
it’s sickening record on human
rights. Later that year, the Bush
administration defended Iraq’s
build-up of chemical weapons,
calling them a deterrent to nuclear
attack by Iraq’s nuclear capable
enemies, (I.E., Israel). We sold
arms to Iraq during it’s war with
Iran. We did nothing when an
Iraqi Jet fired a missile at one of
our ships, kiliing many U.S. ser-
vicemen: In the week before the
invasion of Kuwait, April Glasser,
an employee of the U.S. State De-
partment, personally told Saddam
Hussein that America would not
interfere in Iraq’s “border dispute”
with Kuwait. Hussein assumed
this was a green light from Bush,
and the rest is tragic history. Iam
not accusing Bush of starting the
war deliberately, only of mis-read-
ing Saddam Hussein. Even more
disturbing, however, are the recent
leaks from the White House that
Bush would consider bombing Iraq
before the election in order to re-
vive his sagging popularity.

Newsweek quoted an official in «

the White House as saying that the
U.S. was planning on “Staging an
incident” in Iraq to give the U.S. a
pretext for such military action.
‘The Administration’s response was
chilling. They scolded the press

for “Tipping off” Hussein that the
attack would be coming: Then
Bush denied the charge. Make up
your minds, guys.

#3) Bush Supports To-
talitarian Chinese Government.
In 1950 the Chinese communists
invaded Tibet and began a brutal

policy of religious and political —

persecution which has since varied
in intensity from cultural genocide
to actual genocide. It is estimated
that millions of Tibetans have been
killed or sterilized during the Chi-
nese occupation. When George
Bush was America’s “Special En-
voy” to China, he gave this and
other human rights abuses a little
wink, and went on forging an alli-

ance with this cruel government. |

Bush acknowledged China’s sov-
ereignty over Tibet and called

Tibet’s legitimate ruler, the Dalai_

Lama, (who was later awarded the
Nobel Peace Prize), a “Slave
trader”. If, like most Americans,
you have heard nothing of these
events, then you must be scratch-
ing your head and wondering how
such a thing could happen, but it
gets even worse. In 1989 commu-
nism fellin Europe, for which Bush
is only too happy to take credit, but
that same year Bush stood idly by
while those seeking democratic
reform in China were slaughtered.
In public, Bush condemned the
action, but itis now known that he
almost immediately sent messen-
gers to assure Deng Xiao-P’ing
that he would not revoke China’s
most favored nation status, and to
this day he has not. This means
that vast quantities of Chinese
goods can be imported to America,
despite the fact that we know most
of their export goods are produced
by the millions of political prison-
ers the Chinese continue to hold in
forced labor camps, where they
work and live under virtual sla-
very. The Dalai Lama has, on
several occasions, personally ap-

pealed to George Bush to pressure

the Chinese into allowing him into
Tibet. Bush has decided, however,
that it is more politically advanta-
geous to give China most favored
nation status in return for their
support of our war with Iraq. (China
demanded the incentive, since as a
member of the U.N. security coun-
cil, they could have vetoed the
resolution under which we sent
troops.) The most puzzling thing
about this is that Bush is truly anti-
communist, and his support of
Chinese communism just doesn’t
make sense. Why then does he do
it? Is he afraid a free China would
be to difficult for us to compete
with economically? Or is it some-
thingeven more sinister? Bush did
spend a lot of time in China. Has
anybody seen “The Manchurian
Candidate”?

#2) Bush Will Cripple
America with Debt. Bush wants
you to believe the debt is all the
fault of Congress. I believe him.
—NOT!!! Bush’s hypocrisy on
this one issue perhaps exceeds all
others. Bushrails against congress
for not passing his balanced bud-
get amendment, yet according to
law, the president must submit a
budget tocongresseach year. Bush
has yet to submit a balanced bud-
get to congress. The deficit pro-
duced by Bush’s proposed:budget
for the current year will be around
350 billion dollars, bringing Bush’s

total fiscal debt for his-term in
office to over one trillion dollars,
which is just shy of the total debt
accumulated by America between
the years of 1776 and 1980, the
year Reagan took office and sup-
ply side economics was adopted.
Hello out there economists. Sup-
ply side economics has not only
failed to balance the budget, it has
made the problem infinitely worse,
and Bush knows it. When Bush

Tan for office in 1980 he called

supply side “Vodoo economics”,
and he was right. Yet in a blatant
attempt to buy the election, Bush
has offered to cut taxes again if re-
elected. Firstofall, are we going to
read his lips again, or get real?
Second, the economists and politi-
cians concur, with the exception of
Newt Gengrich, that if taxes are
cut again, the debt will sky-rocket,
which will cause the bond market
to fail, which will cause the stock
market to fail, et cetera, et cetera.
Nowreally George, is thatany way
to stimulate the economy?

#1), (you knew it was
coming), Bush Will Destroy the
Earth. O.K., maybe he won’t ac-
tually finish it off in the next four
years, it has, after all, been around
along time, and it’s known worse.
Right? Wrong. Scientists now tell
us that we are currently living
through the fastest mass extinction

“of species that the world has ever

known, we are losing bio-diversity
far faster than it died at the end of
the mesozoic era. What am I talk-
ing about? I’m talking about the
record of the man who claimed he
would be the “Environmental
President”. Bush had the clean air»

"bill guyjed. He had the wetlands

bill cut down to the point that only
rivers and oceans counted as “Wet-
lands”. He refused to do anything
about the green-house effect. He
refused to stop exporting CFC’s to
third world countries. He has
threatened to re-write the endan-
gered species act to ensure that
loggers in the pacific Northwest
won’t lose their jobs now, but in-
three years, when there are no more
old growth forests anywhere in the
country. George Bush lied. He
had no intention of helping the
environment, because he’s an old
man who’ ll be dead soon, anyway.
His performance in Rio brought
shame upon our nation. By refus-
ing to sign the bio-diversity treaty,
we brought the world one step
closer to ecological catastrophe.
In order to be unbiased, I
have include the top ten reasons to
vote for George Bush as well.
10) He seems like suchanice guy...
9) Oh, andI suppose Clinton would
do better...
8) Don’t you think the president
knows moreabout than
we do?
7) We sure taught that Hussein guy
a lesson!
6) (I can’t write this reason, I’m
too busy saluting the flag.)

_5) He has such a nice family.

4) I’m a Republican. I’ve always
beenaRepublican. My whole fam-
ily is... (etc.)

3) Tax and Spend and Tax and
Spend and Tax and Spend and Tax

’ and Spend and...

2) Liberals and Black Folks and
Gays,—Oh My! __

Id’nt all the rest of
the people in my fraternity votin’
for Bush?
