THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992 11

Inside Art

The Stalker
and Other Tales

By B.J. Rudell

Fa

The stalker tip-toes slyly between blades of grass
that bend and quiver in his presence and

observe in fear and awe at how the sun’s rays

and the prey’s gaze leave him undisturbed;
foreseeing the potential kill, which stands frozen
as a small animal would before the hypnotic cobra,
in a motion more fluid than a diver’s double axle,
he removes the knife from its pouch and punctures

the orange, though delicately, because

that’s how it’s done in this household,

where fine china and bronze sculptures

line the interior for all the many guests to see;

and on nights such as these,

when the fruit must be’ prepared

on a silver platter for the silver-haired company,
tradition is the substance that whets one’s appetite,
while pomposity is the medium that quenches one’s

thirst for danger, hunger for the unknown:

that is what drags him away from his sub-conscious
to the restrictive bars that surround him;

deprived of the freedom of those around him, he
bangs at his jail cell with clenched fists,

screams out shrilly in the name of justice,

gnaws at the bars in innate savagery,

and does not yield until a person on the outside
comes to change his diapers and puts him back to

sleep: it never comes soon enough

for the hard worker and doer of good deeds,

who bides his time providing for humanity,

which lately has been paying a toll on his sanity
and has forced him to reconsider his lifelong dream
of philanthropy, and now it seems

that all those years immersed in books

has left him worse off than any second-rate crook
who makes his living off others’ bread

and the lockets and pockets of the city streets’

dead,

any moment now,

so that all that remains

is the time to pray and say,

“So this becomes my life’s demise,

one that concludes in a rush of pain,

where an end to this suffering is the greatest prize,”
courtesy of

the stalker, satisfied for now,
Slips deftly like the retreating sun

into the shadows of the passing day . . «6 --ecimmn

Angel Wings
By Carla Badgett

Alone, dreaming on my shore,
Iwatch the waters ebb

and the slow fingers of land
reachout to touch once more.

I walk across the damp sand
and slick seaweed, notice a shell

with two perfect sides like angel
wings, and pick it up. I will break

the fragile halves apart and take
one back across the ocean to you.

Tide returns like clouds hiding the blue
mystery of the sky, it cleaves clasped hands

and turns island shells into separate lands
again. I wade back to my solitary coast,

and the shells are hot coals,
buming my skin—

-Can angels fly with just one wing?.

Self-Portrait

By B.J. Rudell

The bristles of the brush are brittle and stale,
uncomfortably scratching the surface of a picture

that will never be seen, never be interpreted,

because of the emotion the artist lacks the tools to express,
the longing she lacks the experience to understand.

The brackish paint drips like solitude, one drop at a time,
while the artist re-dips her brush on the palette

and returns it to the tamished painting,

whose amorphous nature shifts with every trickling tear—
salt-filled grief that, unlike the paint, will never dry out.

The hand that holds the brush shivers,

as a pair of virgin lips quiver uncontrollably,

poised to scream out for a grain of care,

submitting to silence, guaranteeing a despair

that grows and festers with every portrait completed.

There was once a time long ago. . . but no,

it was only a dream, only a fantasy

whose lies assured her a victor’s spoils

but forgot to warn her about the toils

she would have to endure to hold on vainly to false hope.

The artist drags her brush clumsily across a canvas

that possessed the promise of a masterpiece in a store window,

but is now doomed to spend an etemity in a dusty cellar
with all the other portraits the artist created
while a part of her was being destroyed.

Trials

By Carla Badgett

“T love you,” I say, “I will
give you my life.” Bravely
setting off through gnarled

paths, stumbling over roots 8
planted in my childhood
as brambles cut into skin,

I meet gossiping white
bunned ladies who form
a circle around me, sewing

blankets of poison ivy to shield
me from fresh air. Red itching
awelts appear, I beg for help

but the TV preacherman
Says it’s all black and
white, he takes my shoes

for the empty offering plate
and scatters rusty nails
under my bare feet. No—

I will persevere. Feeling thorn
pricks as my limbs fall asleep =
in this wild garden, pleading

for water with a broken clay
cup, I long to reach you, but
sweat must tum to blood

before the curtain is tom,
the dim mirror clears,
and brass tums to gold.

Je
