THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17,1992 9

Beyond Birkenstock: J. Kyle Kinner & Seth J. McLaughlin
A Conversation Between the Birks and the Average Voter

So, did you hear that some
kind of election or something is
comin’ up here, pretty soon?

Do you mean the primaries in
New Hampshire, perhaps?

Yeah... that thing.

Yes, we were aware of the
upcoming pre-election contest.

Well . .: what do you think?

About what, your cranial size?

Probably pretty small.

Well, atleastI know enough to
come in out of the rain.

Careful, you’re dripping on the
floor.

Heh, wait a minute. No, I was
talking about Bill Clinton and that
hotGennifer babe. [hear he dodged
the draft too. vt

Yourealize you’ re getting your
information from a publication
whose headline last week dealt with
Roseanne Barr-Armnold’s new diet,
don’t you? Frankly, learning the
news from the check-outline at the
supermarket is almost as reliable

Trust us, we’re columnists.

Communists? I thought you
Rooskies had voted yourselves out
of existence, anyway.

Turn up that Miracle-Ear--we
said COLUMNISTS, not commu-
nists. Besides, although the Soviet
Union might indeed be experienc-
ing some temporary non-existance,
they’re still the evil empire. What
do you think, seventy years of to-
talitarism would just disappear like
some revolutionary political up-

heaval or something? Its critical ,

that we continue to increase our
military spending to counter the
somewhat diminished threat from
the fifty or so unstable, undemo-
cratic, and unbelievably smelly
constitutent republics.

You sound like Pat Buchanan.

Is there something wrong with
that, mister? What are you, Jew-
ish?

Now wait a minute. If you’re
trying toinsinuate through that last
statement that Patrick Buchanan is

as reading The Davidsonian. somehow anti-semitic, it’s really
; unfounded.
Hmm ... you may be right. You are entirely too erudite to

Tibet

Continued from page 7

which his father had died was in factthe Chinese government. Upon re-

turning to Tibet, the Chinese official in Sonam’s small home town,

noticed the absence of the child. Since it was obvious that the parents had
left their child‘in India, his father was publicly executed in the village.
As much as I wanted to-learn more about the topic from one who
experienced it first hand, I felt obligated to change the subject.
Briefly, the Chinese began invading Tibet in the late 1940’s when the
Communists took control in China.: Tibet had been an independent
country for well over a thousand years, but China decided that Tibet was
a part of the “motherland,” despite national treaties signed by both
countries which proved otherwise. Needless to say, Tibet’s army of six
thousand men could not defend the country for long against the massive
forces of the Chinese. In 1959, the government of Tibet was forced to

flee into exile in India or to risk total loss of their unique, ancient culture —

on the “roof of the world.” Since then the Chinese have killed, according
to most estimates, about one million Tibetans. In addition; many
thousands of Tibetans have fled to India, Nepal, and Bhutan to avoid
persecution by the Chinese government which is actively pursuing a
repopulation policy as well as running concentration camps and other
places of torture. The magnitude of these numbers becomes apparent
when one realizes ceils so of Tibet was only about six million
people before the Chinese invaded. However, the Tibetans and theirsup-
porters are hopeful. Last year the Congress of the United States passed
a resolution to formally recognize Tibet as an occupied nation. Also,
with the downfall ofa majority of Communist governments in the world,
many are hopeful that China’s government soon will follow suit, perhaps
leaving Tibet free again. Noone really knows what will happen, but with
this past year having been declared the International Year Of Tibet,
worldwide awareness of the problems in Tibet began and continues to
I could write a lot more, but this is the basic story as I see it. You-and
Ican read forever about refugees and their tough situations, but you can
never really understand until you sit with someone as he or she tells you
face to face what happens.

I know there are similar problems all over the world, re while I
would love everyone to do something to help the Tibetan cause, I just
hope that people will find some way to help someone who is being
mistreated. You can donate money and write your Senators, but just
being aware of the problems many people experience in this world is a
good start. Finally, I know I did not present many details in this article.
Iam not an expert on Tibet and the political problems there, but if you
have any questions about it, I will be glad to try to find an answer or a
source for the answer.

Dack Stackhouse

be an average voter.

OK, you’ve guessed it. I'ma
NEW HAMPSHIRE VOTER; the
only form of the voting species
who once in four years has every
candidate from George Bush to
Lyndon LaRouche trooping
through my living room. As a

result, I’m statistically more likely

to know something about politics
than the run-of-the-mill moron who
usually answers those polls. I’m
also more likely to be able to sus-
tain these téte-4-téte’s with you
guys in the press.

Thanks for that flattery about
being in “the press,” by the way.
You still seemed kinda’ stupid up
at the beginning of this dialogue,
though.

Hey, whatda’ you expect? I’m
still an American voter, you know.

Sorry, we forgot. So who’s the
stupid one?

Shadup.

Is there a point to this diatribe,
or are you guys just here to expose
the inane? _ :

Actually, we were kind of
hoping you'd tell us who you’re
going to vote for.

Birks

Continued from page 9

really makesmuchof an impact, so-

you say, “yea Rhoda (she hates it

when you don’t call her Granma, °

but who cares), I’ll takea leg,” and
she glares at you, but hands you the
eg to shut you up, and you take it,
and it sits in front of you, mocking
your convictions as talk of foot
problems and the price of Matzo
wafts above you, ignored, and you
think of the Dalai Lama and the
prayerhe offered when he accepted
the Nobel Prize, “For as long as
space endures,/And for as long as
living beings remain/Until then
may I, too, abide/To dispel the
misery of the world,” but you
don’t know why you thought of
that, and the quicker you get this
over, the quicker you can get back
to MTV, so youreach forward, and
pick up the leg, and brushing aside
all objections, you take a bite. . .
and the damn thing’s as dry as
bone.

Shalom Thanksgiving (or, for
you secularists, Have another paid
government holiday, on the defi-
cit). Aloha!

You know, you can’t end a
sentence with a preposition. Boy,
are you guys stupid. Where’d you
go to school?

Well, we go to Davidson Col-
lege.

Where’s that?

Careful buster, you know as
well as we do it’s .. . hey, wait a
minute, who are you anyway?

I’m an admissions counselor
at Harvard Law.

That explains it. By the way,
before this column degenerates
completely into an extended col-
lection of one-liners, who do you
like in the upcoming primaries?

Well, for the Democrats I re-
ally think that action-packed Paul
Tsongas is a good choice. And in
the Republican primaries, Pat
Buchanan has the best chance of
putting a burr in Bush’s britches.

You don’t like Bush?

The man dodges questions
better than Linda Carter dodges
bullets; and they both have a thing
about invisible planes.

Enough with the strained

Buchanan and Paul Tsongas, eh?
Hmm... but who are you going to
vote for?

Oh, I’m not registered.

What?

Nope, I haven’t voted since
Nixon. Now there was a candi-
date.

Well, the Birks apologize for
wasting yet another column talk-
ing to someone who has less sense
than your average Dean of Stu-
dents (just kidding). Just remem-
ber voters of New Hampshire: Vote
Early! Vote Often! Vote Republi-
can!!!

Hey, you guys are transves-
tites aren’t you? I like that in a
man.

Enough with the one-liners
already. Sunununu, keep him away
from the computer.

Ah...eh... How is sex like
a game of bridge?

Nomore Jokes; get outof here.
Wait, before you go, our readers
are curious. How is sex like a
game of bridge?

If you have a good hand, you
don’t need a partner.

Wonder Woman humor. Pat Ahhbh....

Grades

Continued from page 7

in a class of similar size and level in the fall of 1990, in part, I assume,
because of mental adjustments 1 made for the change in the grading
system (not because of changes in the numerical scale) .

Admittedly, in both cases there would theoretically have been a dis-
crepancy in favor of the old system had one added minus marks to some
grades in the first list and removed them from the second one. But such
acomparison is a flawed one because neither adjustment allows for the
different mental approach to evaluation that actually obtained in both
Situations.

My hunch is that the long-range impact on college-wide GPA aver- _
ages, which ultimately depends on the combined effect of the various
mental adjustments that all members of the faculty make, will not be very
great. In any event, it will take some time before we can get a clear
reading of the trend. Until then, itis appropriate, I think, that the faculty’s
educational policy committee has voted to maintain the old GPA stan-
dards for the awarding of honors graduation: 3.5 in the major and 3.2
overall. (Departments have other criteria as well.)

Meanwhile, none of us should get too excited about the matter. I say
that, even though I would have preferred to retain the previous system,
in large part because it involves fewer dividing lines. (1 should live
happily with a system that had no plus or minus marks whatsoever.)

Finally, please remember that for many faculty members numbers
are tools, not determinants, in the inexact exercise of grading. Remem-

. ber, too, that if some students “lose” under the new system, others

“gain’’--but probably only slightly in both cases. By the way, whatever
happened to the noble idea of learning for its own sake?

C. Earl Edmondson
Professor of History

