14

THE DAVIDSONIAN _SPOR | Ss MONDAY, GSEs 14, 1992

Run and Shoot
Misfires in Football
Loss to Sewanee

By John Underhill

They say that the team that
wins the battle of tumovers in a
football game is sure to win. Satur-
‘day afternoon in Sewanee, Tn., the
University of the South did, and,
sure enough, won the game. The
Tigers forced five Davidson inter-
ceptions without committing a
turnover of their own, and thumped
the Wildcats 37-20.

Davidson took a 13-7 lead in
the second quarter, before the run
and shoot offense, in only its sec-
ond appearance, began to falter.
The ‘Cats tied the game at 7-7 in
the first quarter when junior quar-
terback Richard Howell threw 47
yards for a touchdown to senior
wideout Dan Lamar. Lamar caught
six passes for 119 yards and two

. touchdowns on the day. Early in
-the second period, senior fullback

7 when he scored ona 10-yard run.

Sewanee came back to tie the |

game at 13-13, and then punchéd
in Wildcat interceptions for touch-
downs on the next two -posses-
sions. The Tigers held a 27-13 ad-
vantage at the half.

The Wildcats closed out their

scoring in the third quarter, cutting |
the lead to 27-20 on a nine-yard |

&

touchdown pass from Howell to | f¢

Lamar. But Sewanee responded |
‘with a field goal and a fourth-
quarter touchdown to put the game’ |

out of reach.
The Tigers had very little
trouble offensively, passing and

_ rushing for identical totals of 248

yards. Howell completed 18 of 36
passes for 219 yards, but his four
interceptions were devastating.
Matt Matheny threw the other in-
terception on a halfback pass.

Mike Wright put Davidson up 13-

Paul

Continued from page 13

‘while-only losing three more. As the season progressed, Paul regained
his strength, threw increasingly harder and got better and better control.
“Andy was as focused as I’ve seena player,” Cooke said. His work ethic
was outstanding, He had some success but never took anything for
granted.”

After the season, Cooke arranged for Paul and teammate Tim iene
toplay ina summer league based in New Jersey. After the first game Paul
‘pitched in the league, the Brewers began talks with him. By the time
Paul’s second start came around, the word had gotten out, and represen-
tatives of seven or eight franchises showed up at the game. Paul threw a
one-hitter. On June 23, a few days after his. third start, in which he

, struckout 12 batters, Paul signed with the Brewers.

Within days after signing, Paul found himself in Helena, Montana
playing in the Pioncer League, an advanced rookie league. Paul pitched
four games there before returning to Davidson this August, winning
three and failing to get the decision in the fourth.

The day after his graduation in May, Paul will fly to Stockton,
Arizona, where he will join the Brewers’ Class A be team. Paul’s main
reason for giving up his senior year of eligibility was fear of injury. “Lots
of guys have been hurt before they get their chance. I didn’t wantto wait,”
he said. Paul admits it was a tough decision, however, and exhibits great>
gratitude to his teammates and coach. He says, “My teammates were so
supportive of me last season, I feel I owe them something. . . .Coach
Cooke basically made me. He really taught me how to pitch.”

Paul’s respect for Cooke is mutual. “By the end of the season Andy
had as good a stuff as anybody we faced all year,” he said. “I’d put his
breaking ball against anybody’s in the country. He now has the chance
to take a legitimate shot at the big leagues. The degree of Milwaukee’s
interest was great, they weren’t just filling a spot on the roster. .. . This
is what every baseball player strives for. It’s great when a player can go
to the next level from here . . that’s what it’s all about.”

Women's Soccer

Rain Cheats Field Hockey

Out of Chance at Blue Devils

By Jennifer Roos
The Duke game isa high point
on Davidson’s field hockey every
year; this season, the ‘Cats’
‘matchup with the 14th-ranked Blue

__ Devils opened their schedule.

Unlike last year, when Duke

_ dominated offensively on theirown

field, this year Davidson played
their strongest game ever against

‘ the Blue Devils. The “Cats suc-

cessfully initiated their game plan
of small, controlled passes with

-intermittent long passes to the

wings for quick breakaways, and
gave the Blue Devils quite a scare.

_ The game was scoreless until
the last minute of the first half,
when it began to drizzle. Duke

senior Patti Stein scored from —

twenty yards out to make the score _

1-0.

Halftime was extended an ex-
tra five minutes and play was re-
sumed in the rain. After another
five minutes, one of the two refer-
ees called the match to an end.
Usually in such situations play is
halted and then resumed after. the
deterring weathér has dissipated,
but this contest was simply termi-
nated, much to the dismay of many
Davidson and Duke players.

Senior Jenny Plowright
said, “Duke has finally learned to
respect our program, yet that isn’t

- enough. I wish we could have fin-

ished the game because I felt that

we were ready to control the sec-:

ond half.”
Monique Dockter, Jacquelin
Ukrop and Missy Potts each had

shots on cage before the game was
called, but could not convert. “We
had some very good scoring op-
portunities, more so than any other
year against Duke,” Ukrop said. “I
am confident that we would have
scored on them.”

Still, despite the disappoint-
ment that came with the abrupt
ending, Davidson coach Betsy
Pryor believes that “we had many
more positive things happen for us
than Duke did. It was our first
game, and IJ feel we are farther
along than we were at the end of

‘Jast season.”

Davidson will continue its sca-
son with trips to Radford and
Catawba and returns home on Sat-
urday to face Virginia Common-
wealth at 1:00 p.m.

Swim Team Dives Into New Year

By Will Cobb
In the fall of 1989, four indi-

viduals showed yp at the Johnston -
swimming facility for the firstclub *

swimming team meeting. This fall,
61 swimmers and divers came to
the Cannon Poolin the Baker Sports
Complex for the first varsity swim
team practice of the 1992-93 sea-
son.

The swimming program has
made great strides during the past
three years with the help of swim
teant alumni, the new facility, sup-
port from athletic director Terry
Holland and the determination of
several senior swimmers.

Though the Davidson squads
will still be considered underdogs
in the majority of their meets, they

- are becoming more. competitive

Continued from page 13

Wineberg. In the 81st minute, Wineberg recorded one of her own from
an assist by Hankins to seal the victory.

Goalie Liz Schaper and defensive backs Jenny Satterfield, Colleen
Camaione, and Jodi Lewis worked well to reduce the number of
inevitable mistakes that could be accounted for by the weather. Their
labor paid off, as the ‘Cats outshot Queens 21-1.

Todd was pleased to see how well the freshmen’s potential had been
exhibited. “It was a good game to start us off and set us for this weekend,
“she said prior tothe team’s road trip this past weekend to take on Liberty
University and the University of Maryland.

Both Hundley noted that the weekend would be “a good gauge as
to where [they] will stand versus the tougher Southern teams.” The
women will go up against Duke this Wednesday at Duke and Catawba
in the home opener next Sunday. —

each year. This year’s freshman
class boasts 23 of the 61 swim-
mers, and is referred to by coach
Ron Morrow as a “very strong
recruiting class,” The freshmen are
the first group of recruits at
Davidson, and will enhance the

performance of the team. For the
second straight year, the team’s
season will conclude with the
Southern States Championship at
Davidson.

The Wildcats face a difficult

‘schedule against bigger schools

with scholarship programs. Swim-
ming and diving, like most
Davidsonathletic programs, isnon-
scholarship and places a lot of
emphasis on academics. The team
boasted a 3.1 team GPA last year
and qualified for the CSCA All-
American Team.

Since swimming is an indi-
vidual sport, Coach Morrow em-
phasizes personal improvements
in times and diving scores. The

team has an optimistic attitude to-°
ward its standing against other

schools this year, Senior Carlton
Craig reflected on the upcoming
year, “Our team has grown geo-
metrically in size and logarithmi-
cally in strength and I expect us to
place with the top teams at the

Southern States Championship.” -

When asked how he is preparing
for the swim season, senior Hayler
Osborne commented after a few
minutes of thought, “Little choco-
late doughnuts have always been
on my training table.”

_ Seniors Tracy Barwick and
Marc Cook have beenintegral paris
in the growing success and devel-
opment of the swimming program
at Davidson. Divers Curtis Bick-
ers and Caroline Prioleau are ex-
pected to provide senior leadcr-
ship for the relatively young div-
ing program.

Coach Morrow encourages
swimmers of all levels to join the
team. In addition, if students.have |
time and are interested, volunteers
will be needed for all home meets.
The first home meet will be an
exhibition match on September 26
at 9:15 a.m, and the first official
home meet will be November 7
against Harvard.

Quote of the Week:
. "What time is it anyway? Let's call The Davidsonian
: , office and find out" _
-Dr. Robin Bames

