THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992 5

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM PRICE-Associate Editor

° ° TOM K ~Associ i
The B Ysonian ' OONCE-Associate Editor
KEVIN MILLER- News Editor
SUSAN SHEFFIELD-Associate News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT GRUBB-Associate Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost College
Weekly"

JIM TAY BERRY -Production Manager
ALEX DANIEL-Production Manager
DEREK COUNTS-Advertising Manager
CHERRY RHYNE- Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE - Business Manager
MORELAND SMITH-Circulation Manager

TRIED 70 SEE
DURING VIET NAM /

Letters

The Winter Blahs

“Gloom, despair and agony on me; deep down depression...” The se-
mesters that never end have struck again at Davidson as students fight
through ten more days of classes before a well-deserved spring break. In
these past several weeks Davidson has, on several weekends, turned into
a suitcase school as students attempt to get away from the constant
pressure for just a small length of time. This is not to say that everyone
just picks up and leaves on the weekends, but these long stress-filled
winter weeks have made this an increasingly viable option. Campus
tension has been stressed and beaten into the ground and many have
adopted this pessimistic attitude because they feel like it is the prevalent
Zeitgeist at the college and one to which they should pay attention.

Davidson has some of the longest semesters in the country as illustrated °

by the Iong length of time between Christmas and spring break. The next

two weeks will highlight this fact as students prepare for hell weeks of °

papers,tests and midterms crammed in before the break. It seems as if
many students are run-down and in a rut just trying to reach the sixth day
of March. Is this any way for Davidson students to live through a winter
which has been rainy and dismal enough on its own?

The Davidsonian believes that the administration needs to take a look
at this problem a lot more seriously than they have in the past. The solu-
tion is obviously not to cut down on exam periods at the end of the
semester, but maybe to cut out one or two class days during the semester.
Despite the fact that we are a private school, maybe a one-day holiday on
Martin Luther King Day or President’s Day would provide the needed lift
and give people a long weekend to get away from the stress and pressure
of Davidson. It would also give students something to look forward to
during the winter doldrums. Instead, Davidson students trudge off toclass
on these national holidays while not being able to go to the Post Office or
the bank because they are closed, like normal institutions, for these
national celebrations that we basically choose to ignore. To combat
despair and depression, the administration must do something to make the
time between January 8 and March 6 a little bit easier to handle for the
students. The college administration can help out the students and faculty
by adopting just one of these holidays for the Davidson community.
While this probably will never happen, or at the least won’t happen for
several more years because of the typical unnecessary politics involved,
the administration must realize that this stressful depression is not a one-
year phenomenon, but something that will occur each winter until some
action is taken to make the ‘winter bitch’ more tolerable. Maybe if this
is finally resolved we can then turn our attention to the problem of why
this Presbyterian institution allows absolutely no time off for Easter.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
rather poorly ventilated offices are located on the tippy top floor of the Grey Student
Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries ‘do not
neccessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions

Trustees of Davidson College. -

cost $27 per year. Advertising rates available on ae Copyright is held by the

Plank Discusses Honor System

To the editors:

I was privileged to view
the Honor Council in itscon-
ducting of the open trial on
February 14. The public
setting, justly rare, provides
in its occasion an opportu-
nity not only to see but, ina
sense, participate more
immediately in the Honor
process and to feel a com-
mon responsibility for it.
There are no mere specta-
tors in events such as these.

Throughouta long night,
the Honor Council worked
admirably to insure fairness,
discernment, and sensitivity.
Ican only be impressed with
thecare and respect that char-
acterized its actions.

‘Seeing the Honor Coun-
cil at work helped counter
two perceptions that I
struggle with in the grind of
the day to day: first, the
seeming reluctance of stu-
dents to become seriously
engaged in matters beyond
the momentary; and second,

the college’s habitual lean
toward paternalism. Clearly,
the Honor Council shows
that students can, at least in
thiscontext, recognize when
serious matters are at stake
and act with exemplary judi-
ciousness and mature per-
spective. the leadership of
the Council‘in setting this
tone--that something is at
stake in the ins and outs of
our daily life and work--is a
need that cannot be overem-
phasized. That “something
at stake” is the underlying
conviction of an honor sys-
tem, but also the basic dy-
namic of liberal learning. It
is of fundamental impor-
tance to the community and
its sense of vocation. If sin-
gularly dramatized in atrial,
it yet remains a conviction
that should claim us in the
breadth and detail of our
common life, from theclass-
room to the dorm room.

Moreover, that the
Council does its job well

reminds the institution that
student responsiblity is not
something to be co-opted,
but respected and sum-
moned. If the institution
veers towards paternalism,
the very existence of the
Council resists its incursion
and may help us avoid the
peril of too great a “rage of
order’. as was so evident at
the trial, it is the exercise
(and notsimply the presump-
tion) of student responsibil-
ity that makes paternalism
untenable and unnecessary.

Weshould be grateful to
this Honor Council and its
leadership under the direc-
tion of John Howell. When
they act as they did in this
instance, they remind each
of us that something is at
‘stake, in our words and
deeds, always.

Karl Plank
Associate Professor of
Religion

Lake Responds From France

To the editor,

Reading the
Davidsonian while here in
France is an interesting ex-
perience. Knowing these
headline events are past his-

tory for you over there in.

North Carolina puts me in
an uncomfortable time warp.
For example, the ‘student
government elections have
already taken place and Iam

just now reading the cam-—

paign speeches, developing

‘interest about currentissues,

and deciding to which can-
didates I would cast my vote.
Not having a say in these
matters stretches my dis-
tance even further.

Fora few minutes I am
back on campus surrounded
by familiar faces and con-
versation abound. I can
imagine myself taking that
much traversed pathway
between the library and my
room down the hill, contem-
plating the day’s events,

| perhaps hammering acalcu-

lus formula into my head
and wondering whether I
should go dance off some

- steam at KA, stop by Rusk to

check the leftovers, or drop
by a friend’s room to have a

late nightchat. Then quickly

Tam brought back to my

other world here across the _

Atlantic, sitting on my bed
in my little apartment, read-
ing the Davidsonian, reflect-
ing upon what I have seen
and learned during a day in
France. I wonder what you
are doing now on this same
big ball that is spinning in
the sky. The ticking of the
clock in E.H. Little Library,
the blaring of Lynard Skyn-
ard, and the soothing night
breezes at Davidson seem
oh so very far away.
Although I have side-
tracked to some sentimental
thoughts, the spark for my
writing of this article was
one of anger - or more so,
frustration. Its source was
this comment in the
Davidsonian. “The
Davidsonian has asked sev-
eral students who spent last
semester somewhere more
interesting than overrun and
tourist-riddled Europe to
share their experiences with
you, our beloved rulers.”
Sure, I admit that “studying
abroad in France” sounds a
little more flowery and
pampered than “studying
wildlife game management
in Kenya,” and that Paris has

afew too many tourists from
time to time (that is because
it is a city with endless op-
portunities for enriching and
expanding one’s cultured
knowledge) . However, a
comment like the one made
by the editor deserves repri-
mand because it exhibits an
absence of knowledge and
an unapreciation for all the
many diversities and fasci-
nations this world has to
offer, no matter where you
may be.

Corresponding with
both friends who wrote ar-
ticles about their time spent —
in Africa and India was very
valuable to me during first .
semester. This is because
we communicated a. true
interest in each others’ ex-
periences and an apprecia-
tion for all that we were
seeing and learning in our
new worlds. Through these
letters our “separateness”

_was turned into “together-

ness.” Receiving letters from
friends at Davidson also
shortened distances.

Whether it be a safari scene,

aparadise of Indian flowers,
or the autumn colors of a

See "Lake" on page 6
