10

THE DAVIDSONIAN SPOR 1 S MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 1992

Soccer

Continued from page 12

shot that was saved by the UNCC
keeper. And that’s how it went.
The ‘Cats applied pressure liter-
ally until the final buzzer, butcould
notscore. Davidson outshot UNCC
17-9.

Starters Ben Hayes, Preston
Yarborough and Phelps Sprinkle
all missed-the- game, and-Slagle
allowed that the team, though deep,
was hurt by their absence. “Losing
three at the same position was
tough,” hesaid. Slagle was pleased
with his team’s second-half fer-
vor, but felt that coming back from
a pair of two-goal deficits was a lot
toask. “We kept coming back, and
I thought that the kids kept bat-
tling, kept working. But it’s tough
to come back from two goals,” he
said.

The loss to UNCC gave
Friday’s game at Applachian State
a must-win quality. Two seasons
ago, the Wildcats earned their first
national ranking with a win over
Duke, but lost consecutively to
Appalachian State and UNCC, and

the national polls never forgave
them. Gamesat App State are made
more difficult by the severely
crowned artificial turf surface that
is the Mountaineers’ home field.
In part because of the surface,
Davidson had considerable trouble
controlling the ball throughout the
field, but a late goal by Zack
Eastman allowed the team to es-
cape with a 3-2 win.

The Mountaineers were the
aggressors throughout a first half
that ended in a 1-1 tie. Davidson
scored first 15 minutes before half-
time. The ball was sent into the
middle of the field 18 yards out on
a free kick, and Ed Denning con-
trolled it and nudged it to his left.
John Sampers took the ball off one
bounce and placed it in the bottom
rightcorner witha left-footed shot.
ASU tied the game with 6:50 to go
on a header off a comer kick.

The Wildcats took the offen-
sive to open the second half, and
quickly cashed in a goal to culmi-
nate several minutes of sustained
pressure. Hayes beat his man on
the right side, dribbled the ball up
the endline and crossed to
Castelloe, who headed the ball in

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *

Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel
brochures. For information send a
stamped addressed envelope to: Travel
_INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161

for a 2-1 lead.

App State tied the game with

the kind of quick counterattack
that UNCC used so well. With less
than 30 minutes to play, a long ball

was sent to an offsides Mountain-

eer forward about 25 yards out.
When the linesman missed the call,
the Davidson defense was out of
position. Deegan came out to
smother the angle, but the ASU
player chipped the ball neatly over
his head and into the.goal.

At 86:15, the ‘Cats got the
game-winner. Ukrop began the
play, as he so often does, by trap-
ping a pass with his chest with his
back to the goal. Working about 25
yards out, he volleyed the ball over
his head to the right of the goal.
Eastman ran down the wing to
claim it about 10 yards out, and
blasted a right-footed shot past the
keeper. The Mountaineers had a
pair of very. good scoring chances
before time expired, but couldn’t
convert them.

Slagle recognized that the ar-
tificial surface intensified App
State’s advantage in speed. “It’s
very tough to practice for astroturf.
It’s a big home-field advantage,”
he said. “I think we always feel
lucky to get out of Applachian
with a win.” Defender Matt Spear
agreed that the turf changed the
nature of the match. “It just made
the game ugly,” he said. “But we’ll
take an ugly win.”

The team has more thana week
off before meeting the Citadel at
home next Saturday (2:00 p.m.).

Cross-
Country

Continued from page 12

on

place finish out of thirty starting team. Senior Ian Stewart continued his
excellent season, running 11th in a time of 27:56. Bchind him was
training partner David Kerns, finishing a respectable 25th with atime of °
28:23. But the best race of all was between junior Richard Wharton and
sophomore Erik McMichael. The two jockeyed for positions all along
the course, pushing each other and passing other runners until the very
end, when McMichael found an extra gear and finished third on the team, .
with Wharton right behind him. Fifth on the team was Pete Hurtado, who
ended the race with a still-respectable time of 29:46.

Bothrunners and coaches hope that they can take the overwhelming
momentum from the Hunter College meet into the second half of the
season, which begins October 17th at Duke.

Women's
Soccer

Continued from page 12

outside the 18-yard box.

Davidson coach Kevin Hundley, reflecting on the week of games,
felt that his team is right where it ought to be with a 5-2 record. “After
these past three games, we finally played today ona level which stretched
the potential of our opponents and it paid off,” he reniarked. “I feel bad
to kick Erskine when they’re having a rough season, but there was not a
single goal today that we did not earn or a moment in which we did not
play hard.”

The rest of the teams on the Wildcats’ schedule are Division I
schools. The team meets Radford and High Point on the road this week,
then returns home Sunday to take on Mercer.

MONDAY-SATURDAY

NAIL BOUTIQUE

New Set of Nails $35.00 (with Student ID.)

ONE DOOR DOWN FROM THE SODA SHOP

106 S. Main Street
Davidson, NC 28036. >

892-7030

Sculptured Nails,

Overlays, French

Nail Tips,

Manicures,
Pedicures

