NEWS

unregistered. It is valued at
$300.00.

Around 4:00pm on Sunday
September 13 a brown Jansport
bookbag was taken from the Gov-
ernment documents section of
Little Library. The bag contained
only miscellaneous papers and
work assignments. The bag itself
is valued at $90.00.

Between the hours of
12:00am and 11:45am on Thurs-
day September 17, a Busch beer
sign was removed from the Kappa
Sigma house. The back door and
windows were unlocked. The
sign is valued at $175.00.

If anyone has information on
these or other crimes, please con-
tact the Office of Public Safety at
-2178. ,

Davidson Group Calls on
Musicians to Unite
Amateur musicians from

the Arts director, said, “A lot of
people have studied music for

years, but have no outlet to prac-

tice and enjoy playing with oth-
ers. They want to get together,

and it’s a natural for Friends of

the Arts to help facilitate that.”

Those interested are being
asked to submit their names and a
description of their musical skills,
along with group dues, to Friends
of the Arts, which will create a
directory from the submissions.

While there are no plans for
the group beyond the directory at
this point, McKelway said any-
thing is possible. “Itcouldlead to
trips together, or get-togethers to
play, or maybe a community or-
chestra,” she said. “We'll just
have to see what the members
really want.”

For more information, con-
tact McKelway at 892-2116.

Price

Continued from page I

Price’s latest novel, is typical of Price’s previous works in that he

g 1, £; Ls

2 and how they deal with crisis. This book
portrays the life of a father who has fallen in love witha sixteen year old,

and then relates his feelings to his granddaughter.

In 1984, Price was diagnosed with spinal cancer, Despite his illness,
Price continued to write, finishing his most commercially successful

novel, “Kate Vaden,” only two years later.

In his novels, Price attempts to highlight and express pieces of
Southern culture which persist despite the modernization of the South.
He explains, “You can.ride thirty minutes from the heart of Atlanta and
be in country and with people very similar to those who lived there 50
years ago. They’ve got television, running water and lights, but their
values are still old-fashioned and rural.”

Insumming up his method of writing, Price said, “I don’t try to judge
anyone; I’m not here to make arrests. It’s really rather simple - the sort
of novel I’m interested in is one that tries to understand the world.”

The event was jointly sponsored
by Davidson, the UNC-Chapel
Hill School of Medicine’s Office
of Continuing Medical Education
and the Charlotte Area Health Edu-
cation Center.

The Colloquium featured a
dinner followed by a speech given
by Dr. Carl Cohen on Thursday
evening, followed by four speak-
ers on Friday. The colloquium

‘ ended with a faculty-participant

dialogue in*which all the speakers
discussed the “Practical Aspects
of The Access, Cost, and Quality
Interface.”

In the keynote address Thurs-
day evening, Dr. Carl Cohen, pro-
fessor of philosophy at the Univer-
sity Of Michigan, spoke on the
question of whether the right to
health care exists. Dr. Cohen be-
gan his talk by stating that the
question “Is there a right to health

care?” must be divided into three
seperate questions; is there a right
to healthcare, whoholds that right,
and what are the benefits of that
right. :

Cohen then defined what
rights actually are. He said that
rights areclaims or potential claims

by agents against some party.
Conen saa tat Tights can come

from laws, moral relations, or a
moral code. Cohen said that natu-

’ ral rights were ones that seemed to

be derived from a moral view-
point, as opposed to legislative
rights, such as the right toa trial by
jury, which are the result of laws.

Finally, Cohen clarified the
difference between negative rights
and positive rights. Cohen said
that most of our rights are negative
rights, that is they are to be free of
some hindrance, or, in other words,
the liberty to choose for ourselves.

would be, a positive right, mean*~

ing that if it were made a right it
would have to be provided to all
those entitled to receive such ben-
efits.

Next, Cohen stated that the
real argument is not really about
rights but about access to health
care. Cohen said that the question
is then one of justice, or making
sure that health care is available to
all those entitled. He said that the
real argument changes from
whether or not there is a right to
health care to whether or not we
want to create the right to health
care.
Finally, Cohen said that there
are several precautions that need

to:be discussed and understood
before the right to health care is
established.

First, if the right to health care
is established, we must be pre-
pared to pay for it. Cohen said that
it would be very, very expensive,
and this must be recognized, be-
cause once the right is granted, it
can’t be taken away.

Next, Cohen said that the costs
will involve more than money.
There will also be the cost of deliv-
ering care to those who live where
there is not easy access to it. Fur-
ther, there may have to be a reduc-
tion in the freedoms of health care
professionals in choosing where
they will work and even of con-
sumers in their freedom to choose

2 THE DAVIDSONIAN MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992
~ College Briefs ~ Speas Colloquium |
Cmroo — ircughouteramcinnso| Addresses Medical Ethics Issues
Sometime between the hours "join “Music Makers,” a new or- ee ee
'} of 5:00pm and 9:00pm on Satur- oa s sasieti Gt folks who wankto By John Murchison Positive rights are different in wherethey receive theirhealth care.
day September 12, a silver and _ play together that’s being orga On September 17 and 18, that they are welfare rights, or Another precaution that must
red bicycle was taken from in nized by The Friends of the Arts Davidson hosted the fifth annual “rights to have something provided be examined isdefining whatis the
frontofNew A partment Buil ding . of Davidson College. Frederick Womble Speas Memo- to you, such as public education. content of the right. Should it be
D. The bike was unlocked-and Babs McKelway, Friends of rial Colloquium in Medical Ethics. Cohen said that health care is, or the right to everything, most, or

just some of the many types of care
that can be provided? Will there
be a limit to how much of these
types of care to which each person
is entitled? Cohen feels that these
are the most difficult questions to
be answered in the. debate over
health care.

Further, Cohen felt that those
who will be paying the bill for
health care will be likely to insist
that those who claim their right do
their share to protect their health.
This could lead to further intrusion .
into other rights. For example,
will restrictions be placed on smok-
ing, alcohol use, eating habits, and
lifestyle? Cohen expressed con-
cern that creating a right to health
care may cause a loss of other
freedoms.

Cohen’s final warning was that
the implementation of a right to
health care would change the rela-
tionship between doctors and pa-
tients to an adversarial role, where
doctors would become targets of
claims by patients. Cohen admit-
ted that while this would probably
be mainly a change in perception,
it could cause problems in the fu-
ture.

In concluding his remarks,
Cohen stated that health care would
be a positive right, and that the

‘ main argument in the debate over

it should center on the content of it
and whether or not it should be

granted.

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *

Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel
brochures. For information send a
Stamped addressed envelope to: Travel
INC:, P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161

“Anita Hill & Clarence Thomas:
One Year Later’
_ -A Talk with Timothy Phelps,
Newsday's Supreme Court Reporter,
who broke the story last year.

Wednesday, September 23
7:30 P.M. 900 Room

Spring 1993

Art History Semester in France For

All Interested Students (Soph, Juniors, Seniors) should
see Professor Shaw Smith right away at 105 Cunningham
Fine Arts Buiding, Ext. 2182

T=

IDENTIFY YOURSEL?

Davidson Screen Printers specializes in
imprinted T-shirts, sweatshirts and
other sportswear for fraternities,
sororities, dorms, clubs, sports teams,
and other Davidson College
organizations. Let us help you create a
garment that will express your group's
unique qualities and characteristics.

Davidson
Screen
#4 Printers

428 South Main Street
P.O. Box 126
_ Davidson, N.C. 28036

Tel. (704) 892-5973
Christine & Ken Hageman

Tr

