THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992 5
° revised and further enforced, pro- _dall added that this would not take
Committee cedures forreportingandrespond- place immediately and that when it
. ing to harassment be improved, a does a group will conduct a thor- B umste ad
Continued from page 1 restructuring of Patterson Court, ough investigation of Patterson
reaction." Committee members and a development of social op- Court. Continued from page 1

said that this is why the report
concentrates on. perceptions and
problems. This report cites prob-
lems and changes that Davidson is
experiencing in the community as
awhole. According to the report,
“TheDavidson College community
is currently undergoing a gradual
transformation from exclusivity to
inclusivity (sic)....Change is pro-
ducing a variety of dislocations in
which the perception of alienation
and anxiety among female and

minority students is more apparent '

than overt intolerance or harass-
ment.”

The report also states that overt
harassment is “less of a problem
than the stereotypical and offen-
sive attitudes that underlie action
and intent, as well as generate
rumors.” The report addresses the

problem of alcohol abuse and ac-

cuses the houses on Patterson Court
as being the “focus of charges of
harassment on campus.” It states
that, “Years of benign neglect by
College authorities have trans-
formed Patterson Court from an
- open community of student eating
houses into aclosed community of
fraternities and female eating
houses that encourages good
people tobehave badly.” ;

The report also discusses prob-
lems that the committee found in
the Dean of Students Office. It
concluded that, “Some students and
facultyperceive the Office of the
Dean of Studentsas an ineffective
place offavoritism, secrecy, and
non-response.” ‘Specific cases
inyolving theSAE House are also ...
addressed in this’ document (see
"SAE" article). efi

The committee listed several
recommendations for dealing with

theproblems that they discovered

tions to “reduce the stereotyping

that encourages harassment of

others who are different.” The

committee endorsed the steps taken

by the administration to develop a

campus-wide alcohol policy and-
recommended that severe sanctions

be taken against SAE.

Dean of Students Will Terry
said, “The report has some help for
the Dean’s office. We intend to
accept the recommendation of the
committee toestablish liaisons with

‘minority students, women, and

members of F.L.A.G. so they can:
encourage students who are har-
assed to bring their cases to be
adjudicated. It is my intention that
the two assistant deans of students
have a higher profile both in disci-
plinary matters and other cases of
the college.”

Terry stated that the Student
Conduct Council will begin to look
atthe Code of Responsibility in the
fall. :
Kuykendall said, “We’re left
with some remaining questions.
The committee wasn’tequipped or
empowered to pursue things that
have been unanswered.” He said
that the report was intentionally
blunt in that the “committee was
concerned to convey not only the
content but the impact of what they
heard.” Kuykendall also believes
that this committee didn’t have the

‘intention of hurting or antagoniz-

ing anyone in the larger Davidson
community. ©

Terry said, “The report has
certainly raised issues which will

_ be discussed and debated.for-the. ..

be a major representative group to

on campus, They recommended’ take a look at that aspect of the ~
that the Code of Responsibility be _ Davidson community. Kuyken-

Terry said, “The report would
indicate that SAE is not the only
group that has behavioral prob-
lems, and there is no reason that
anybody should gloat about this
because any fraternity could. get
the same letter.” The letter Terry
mentions is one sent to SAE by
Terry stating immediate sanctions
to be placed on that fraternity.

Members of SAE believe that

there are several inaccurate state-

ments in this report. In a response

tothis believe, Hasty said, “Ifthere

any inaccuracies, I’m not aware of
them.”

Upon completion of this re-
port, the committee is now fin-
ished with their role in investigat-
ing these perceived problems of
intolerance on campus. Members

_ of the committee said that the situ-
ation and whatever action may be.
taicedt bee De Femme over 00 the

administration. _

Hasty said that this tition isa
“call tothe faculty tobeinvolvedin
the total life of the community.”
He said, “I hope that this will help
to dismantle the barrier between-
the north side of Chambers and the
front of Belk, that it will make us
realize that what happens on Pat-
terson Court and the residence halls
is integral to what goes on in the
classroom.”

Hasty said the report “empow-

ers the administration and encour-

ages students to continue to be .
‘involved in reshaping thiscommu-

nity.” He said, “It is everybody’s

et me S606 fenighgedinthis :
‘next year, particulary as itrelates ©
to Patterson. Court.” In regards to —
Patterson Court, Kuykendall said —
_ that in all probability there would _

secretary represents the decision of the Council.

Bumstead, in a speech he made to the Council, mentioned several
concerns and ideas he had for the coming year. He said, “‘It would be
my hope, that I would be able to help make the community more
comfortable about the Honor System.” As part of this effort, Bumstead
proposed publishing a series of articles in The Davidsonian “with the
purpose of going into great detail about the workings of the system.” He
said, “I have found that students know amazingly little about how the
system works, and I would hope to help involve and educate them in this ~
way.”

‘He also expressed concem over the current appeal process and said
that he would like to work with Dean Terry and the Student Conduct
Council “to consider movements for Review Board reforms.”

Questions Regarding
Financial Aid For 1992-
1993

Studying Abroad? Have a 3.0 or higher? North
Carolina resident? unsure if you qualify for
need-based aid?

If you have questions concerning honor/merit
scholarships, outside sources of aid, and/or eligi;
bility requirements for need-based aid, (includ-
ing work-study jobs, loans, and federal and state
grants), please stop by the Financial Aid Office
for an appointment or to pick up the necessary
forms. The deadline for T applying ie for aid is May
1, 1992.. ley

eat office i is ee in #1 Jackson Office and
our hours are 9-12PM and 2-5PM, ane
EHOW:

MN:

