THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 2 , 1992

Russian Aid

Continued from page 1

help. Moncure first contacted a lieutenant colonel friend of his in the
National Guard in Charlotte. This person sent Ordinartsev a long list of
U.S. based relief organizations. One of these organizations, Volunteeers
In Technical Assistance, has agreed to coordinate this relief effort.

Moncure then contacted Major General Buster Glosson, a Davidson
parent and the director of tactical planning for the U.S. Air Force.
Glosson had actually heard of the program and secured the use of
military aircraft in transporting the food to Moscow. In Moscow, the
food will be picked up by members of the Pyatigorsk church. These
church members will make the 30 hour drive to Moscow inrented trucks
and will hopefully receive a KGB escort on the way home. Once the aid
reaches Pyatigorsk, the minister of the church will distribute it to the
community. :

The joint of efforts of a small American community, the U.S.
military, and the Russian KGB is remarkable. Rosemary Raynal con-
tacted the national Presybyterian organization, Presbyterian Church
U.S.A., and they commented that ‘a relief effort of this nature was
completely unprecedented to the best of their knowledge. Raynal said
that Russian Orthodox Churches have traditionally “steered clear” of
American protestant churches and that this program is an incredible
opportunity for the two churches to develop a “personalized relation-
ship.”

Since the initial efforts of Ordinartsev and the Raynals, the aid
program has branched out to other immediate communities. Ordinartsev
has spoken at nearby Gilwood Presbyterian Church and will soon speak
at churches in Statesville and Elkin. He has also spoken at area Rotary
Clubs and Lions Clubs. Dr. Charles Raynal’s brother, who is a physi-
cian, has contacted several pharmeceutical companies. Ordinartsev said
that these companies are considering sending medical supplies. In
addition, the effort has enlisted the support of the Westminster group on
campus and has contacted the Charlotte based, US-USSR Bridges for
Peace organization. Also, the company in Mooresville which manafac-
tures the boxes in which the goods are shipped has agreed to sell the
chuch the boxes at a discount price.

Ordinartsev underscored the seriousness of the need for aid. He said,
“People have worked their whole lives and now this country doesn’t
want to help them.” The economic situation is so bad, Ordinartsev says,
that many people are now unable to afford their own funerals. He said,
“The churches have no money,” and described their situation as “desper-
ate.” . }

He called the program “remarkable, and very exciting:’’“Ordinartsev
cited the “golden rule” in describing the purpose of the program; “As
God said, treat others as you would wish them to treat you.”

Ordinartsev is hopeful that the Davidson student body will also.
support this effort. He said, “I would like to have any kind of assistance
from Davidson College.” He also said that the Russian people “know
Americans are very generous.”

These are the contents of the boxes that are being sent to Pyatigorsk.
The organizers of the aid program ask that you use the exact amounts
requested and that you buy nothing in glass or plastic containers. Due
to the cost of the contents ($35-$45), families or individuals may wish
to work together to fill a box. Rosemary Raynal is urging participants
toinclude pictures and notes to the Russian people. She is confident that
“we'll hear from them” and that “two-way, long-term relationship” can
be established. =

ee =

AIDS

Continued from page 1

stated that “the hiStorical
tradition...is quite equivocal.
Some physicians have stayed with
contagious patients even at the
risk of their own health. Others,
however, have fled.”

Inthe last twocenturies, Zuger
said that the American Medical
Association’s Code of Ethics has
changed from requiring physi-
cians to treat patients “...even at
the risk of their,own lives...” to
giving physicians the freedom to
choose “whom to serve, with
whom to associate, and the envi-
ronment in which to provide
medical services.” __

She pointed out that there are
two ethical models which physi-
cians can follow today. The
“contract model,” she explained,
states that both the physician and
the patient can into a contract
voluntarily. But, once the rela-
tionship is established, only the
patient has the right to break the
contract unless the physician
provides adequate notice for the
patient to find another doctor.

The “rights model,’ Zuger
said, forces public physicians to
treat all patients who come for
help. Physicians in private prac-
tice, however, have the right to
deny treatment to any patient, she
said.

Zuger concluded by saying
that “a volunteering system of
accommodations is being worked
out” for treating AIDS ‘patients.
But, she noted, in return for,a
physician’s treatment of an AIDS
patient, he can expect to receive
some rewards. Zuger listed at-
taining prestige in the research
community, receiving a higher

- salary, and being labeled as ahero

as possibilities.
Following her speech, Zuger

was asked what her position was :

on the issue. In response, she
said, “I think...it is possible to
construct a strong moral code for
the profession... but Iam not sure
that physicians would adhere to
it.’:

|

j

* EARN EXTRA INCOME *

Earn $200-$500 weekly mailing travel
brochures. For information send a
stamped addressed envelope to: Travel
INC., P.O. Box 2530, Miami, FL 33161

Pr,
M.D.

J.D.
M.B.A.

IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE NUMBERS,
YOU WON'T GET THE LETTERS.

Available at campus and local bookstores
Sil NE SARs | PRE

Want Help? We’re Here.

Study Skills

Sexuality
Relationships

ooo

Time management
Stress management

STUDENT COUNSELING CENTER
Room 08 Union Blg. Basement
Call Ext, 2451 for appointment

Family issues

Eating disorders

Depression

Anxiety ;

Alcohol & substance
abuse

eee

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D. |

_ Molly Terry, MSW
David Staton, Ph.D., Director Christine Davidson, Secretary

