THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1992 9

Inside Art

“Ideas”

By B.J. Rudell

On my numerous visits to foreign lands,
I’ve believed there is an endless universe,
and the ignorance of those I’ve seen
has come, you’ll see, to be their curse
(in this vast‘and endless universe).
By confronting someone with knowledge
on what my concept is all about,
he does not lash out, thrash out, because
in the concept he is already immersed.
But when I give an opinion on matter
to which someone is unfamiliar,
that someone becomes threatened, and
(it’s soon evident)
a misunderstanding lurks.
24a 2 Ae Ae 2A he fe 2 2 2 2h ah fe 2 24 24 fe ae 2 ee Ae Ae Fe He 2 ee he fe ie ee oe he 2c fe fe fe oe 2 2k 2k ie ae ok 2k ok aie ak ak ok oie ke 2 ke ie ae a
I met a buffalo, 4000 B.C. .
and I said in a voice well-rehearsed:
“You are not dominant on this land,
for there is Man elsewhere on earth.”
The unlearned beast, it became threatened
and started to snarl at me:
“You fib, you lie, you feed me untruths...”
but I assured it once more of its worth.
And off I went through the endless universe...
94e ae fe 2h a he 2Fe oe he 2K He 2h 2 af 24 2c ae fe 2he ae ae 2h 2h 2h fe 24 2k fe 2fe ae fe 2h fe fe 2h 2K fe 24 ae fe 2h 2 fe fe oe oe fe 24 2 fe 2h 2k 2k fe 2c 2k i 2k ake ke oe
I met a Roman, 100 B.C.,
and asked if he knew about Man;
“Why yes, “ he explained, “I know of them all:
those who are pale and those who are tan.”
And he smiled.
‘I warned him’ there is no reason for happiness, iu
and that he shouldn’t feel so clever:
“Your country shouldn’t feel so clever:
empires do not last forever.”
The uneducated tyrant, he filled with spite,
and started to glare at me: ;
You fleer, you jeer, you scoff, you mock...”
but I told him to insult me never.
And off I went through the endless universe.....
2 fe 2h ae fe 2h ae fe 2h ae 2he 2c fe 2he he fe 2s he 2h 2A a afc 2h 2h fe 2h He ae 2h 2c ae he ae ae 2h 2c ae he 2h ae 2h oe ae 2h 2h 2h ae 2h 2c 2 2h 2c ok 2 2s 2 ie 2 a
I met an historian, 1992 A.D., , ~
and asked if he knew about empires that fall; .
“Why yes,” he answered, “I know of them all,
like the Romans, the Greeks, and insects that crawl.”
And he smiled. .
I warned him that he shouldn’t be smug,
for he is far from being all-knowing: :
“people get stupid as they get older; ®
your brain activity is slowing.”
The uninformed snob, his face had turned red,
and he gave me a shot in the jaw:
“You dolt, you dunce, you insult my presence...”
but I told him I better be going. sais"
And off I went through the endless universe...
2 eae hee oe ea ee he ee A ee He Ae Ae Ae A A A A Ha AA A A A A A AR HH A eH
When I got home from all these journeys,
my day’s activities were ended,
and I learned that a new idea can be dangerous
when it is told to someone for whom it is intended.
But suddenly my thoughts were halted,
and a strange apparition appeared!
“You witless, mindless moron,” I cried;
“how can you say such a thing?”
' “Ahh,” it said calmly, “you are a fool:
The rule of ideas for you, too is intended.”

And off it went through the endless universe.

But... then it happened.

The Emperor’s
ToughSkins

By Bob Dixon, '91

When I was eleven I went steady with my next
door neighbor, Wendy Overduyn, who happened to
be ten at the time. We would spend our summer days
together; me working hard in my Father’s garden,
she standing by my side singing the songs from
Grease. We went on in perfect harmony until one
day, as I was shucking peas, she stopped right in the
middle of “Beauty School Drop-Out,” turned tome
with a coyly ambiguous smile, and challenged,
“Are you a boy?” .

“Xes."

“Then prove it.”

Puzzled as to how I was to do this, I sought in her
eyes some unspoken solution. “Thump, thump,
Gumpa jumpa, THUMP THUMP,” went my heart
as Isawhereyes trickle down my brown and orange
t-shirt and settle upon my red.and blue ToughSkins.

I hadn’t even held her hand yet.

“What . . . what do you mean,” I stammered,
feigning ignorance.

“She just kept looking at my ToughSkins and
didn’t say anything. |

My mind racing, I wondered what my best friend,
a fully bearded fourteen year old named Iron John-
Boy, would do. He would probably tell Wendy that
he was a boy because he was stronger than her and
boys are stronger than girls.

Good idea, Iron John-Boy! That’s what J’Il do.

With a quick silent-movie gesture, I n
down and shucked my own shell, giving sunlight to
the young peas of my own private pod. In an almost
unconscious paralysis I stood boldly as if someone
had just slapped my rear. Her mouth opened slightly
and she lifted her eyes back to mine.

“Wow,” she said. :

“Yeah, pretty neat, huh?” and I thought about
some tricks I could show her, when suddenly the
sliding door shot open and Dad came out onto the
deck. With one big heave I lunged for the coverage

-_ of anearby tomato plant. My eyes wide with terror,

and Wendy laughing all the while, I pulled my pants
up so hard that I have never been able to get them
down since. I should have done what my prema-
turely mature friend would have done. Things would
have been somuch easier, and if you’ re reading this,
I just want to say that youknew best, and goodnight,
Iron John-Boy.
