12

THE DAVIDSONIAN  __ ARTS

* MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992.

SWE

Continued from page 11

ments. Needless to say Hedra doesn’t take this very well at all.

Schroeder presents the audience with a spine-tingler of a flick that
sits on the edge of being just another slasher film, but is redeemed
through Fonda and Leigh. Schroeder’s classy European style is also not
to be discounted here. However, although the movie manages to save
itself for most of its entirety, all this work is for naught when the lame-
0 ending is presented to us at the finale. What’s your damage Barbet?
While the film is overall worth the admission fee, I felt cheated by the last
minute or so. Here’s my suggestion: go see the movie and bring a pack
of Ritz crackers to eat during the last minute. It'll go perfectly with the
cheese on the screen and you’ll walk out with a full feeling that the movie
almost, but doesn’t quite deliver.

‘Tritt

Continued from page 10

Brooks, is one of country’s biggest acts. He will be a powerful force in
- the coming year, largely off the strength of his live show, his past
popularity, and this fine new album. :

Well, that’s a quick look into a hot new release. In case you were
‘wondering, I’m back. No applause, please. I’ll have some new topics
to explore in the coming weeks, so keép tuning in. We’ll look more in
depth at the workings of the music business and much more into what’s
happening each week in country. Oh yeah, don’t forget to start planning
your fiestas for September 14 (release date for Garth Brooks’ The Chase)
and September 30 (the 26th annual CMA Awards show)! (Can you stand
the anticipation?) ‘Till next time, check out Mary-Chapin Carpenter’s

near-platinum, top ten release, Come On, Come On, her finest work yet.

Jump On The Bandwagon..... he
Davidsonian Bandwagon

Lolla ©

Continued from page 10
much as I did. It was the first time

. that I'd seen the band from New

York, and I enjoyed the songs that
they played from their EP Up For
Grabs and their LP Pocket Full of
Kryptonite. John Popper of Blues
Traveler joined in for “Two
Princes” off of Kryptonite, and

- “Refrigerator Car” off the same

album was a scorcher.

Perhaps the highlight of the
show followed the Spin Doctors
when Bela Fleck andthe Flecktones
took the stage. Bela Fleck is widely
regarded as one of the finest banjo/
electric banjo players in the world,
and his supporting cast is no less
impressive. The Flecktones are
made up of Howard Levy and
brothers Roy Wooten and Victor
Lemonte Wooten. Levy is a solid
keyboard and harmonica player
that usually carries the melodies of
the instrumental music on the harp.
Roy Wooten, otherwise known as
“Future Man”, playsan instrument
from his homeland-of-the-future
called and Syntheaxe Drumitar.
“Future Man” paraded around the
stage thumping out the drums on
an instrument held like a guitar, all
the while taking a time out to ex-

‘plain that “as you can see, my
fingers are the drums.”

I must take another paragraph
todiscuss “Future Man’s” brother,
Victor Lemonte Wooten. This man,
like his sibling, possesses a tre-
mendous amount of rhythm in his
musical soul. But Victor also pos-
sess more speed, funk, groove;
whatever-you-want-to-call-itin his
soul than any other bassist I have
ever seen. He was absolutely in-
credible throughout the Flecktones’
segment of the show, and his dis-
play was intensified by the bass
barrage of “The Sinister Minis-
ter”, atrack off the Flecktones first,
self-titled album. They also played
tracks off of Flight of the Cosmic
Hippo and their latest release,
UFOTOFU., You really must see
this act to understand it, because it
was the greatest musical showcase
of talent that I’ve seen.

With atough actto follow, the
Southern grown boys of Wide-
spread Panic took the stage for
what many consider their finest
performance of the H.O.R.D.E.
Panic played some of their newest

<tunes, such as “Wondering” and
“Tie Your Shoes”, as well as some
old favorites like J.J. Cale’s
“Travelin’ Light” and the Meters’
“Ain’t No Use”. The band clearly
had the best performance of any
band on the night (Bela was great,
but it was individually fantastic),
and they really demonstrated that
they are a group on the rise. Be out

the lookout for the Panic’s new

album. The are scheduledtorecord
atthe Georgia Theatre in Athens at
the beginning of October for a few
live track to go on the new LP.

Also, keep your ears open while -

you watch the Braves win the NL
West on TBS - you might hear
Widespread on a fade to a com-
mercial!

Finally, the Panic was fol-
. lowed by a festival procession
through the crowd the featured

H.O.R.D.E. decorations and cos-
tumes. Once the parade passed
through, Blues Traveler came out
toclose the show. Perhaps the most
sé bands

out with blazing speed into such
crowd favorites as “Optimistic
Thought” and “But Anyway”. The

only real highlight of this segment
was when Howard Levy joined
John Popper for a harmonica duel

in the middle of the set. Howard

quickly showed Popper that it
doesn’t take a million notes to be
impressive. This lesson could be
takeninby allofthe Travelermem-
bers, as their set; and the show,
ground to a halt with a drawn out
rendition of “Mountain Cry”. It
was a rather unimpressive end to a
night of overloaded senses and
burnt synapses.

Unlike the H.O.R.D.E.,

Lollapalooza II attracted me by its

sheer freakiness rather than all of
the musical groups. However, I
did go to the shows in Raleigh and
Charlotte with an open mind, and I
came out with more respect for a
wider variety of musical styles. 1,
like many other fans, have em-
braced the Seattle music scene that
has exploded in the last: year or
two, and I was also anxious to see
the Red HotChili Peppers. In addi-

' tion to the musical acts, I had heard

about the Jim Rose Sideshow the
was going on at the concerts side
Stage. :

I arrived at both shows rather
late, missing all of Lush in Char-
lotte but catching a little bit in

* Raleigh. ‘There* atmospheric yet ©

grinding songs sounded god, very
much in the Smashing Pumpkins
mold, but not nearly as good. They
were quickly followed by Pearl

Jam, the first of the two Seattle:

bands in the show. Pearl Jam has
followed the meteoric rise of Nir-
vana to the front of the MTV audi-
ence, and the crowds in Charlotte
and Raleigh reacted warmly to the
barrage of tunes thrown out by the
group. They played crowd favor-

ites, “Alive” and “Jeremy” from:

their album Ten, as well as other
rocking tunes like “Porch” and
“Why Go”. Pearl Jam was defi-
nitely one of the highlights of the
entire show, easily deservinga later
time slot than second.

The Jesus and Mary Chain.
followed in the third time slot. The
Scottish art-pop band seemed
somewhat out of place among the
likes of Pearl Jam and
Soundgarden. Vocalist Jim Reid
actually stated in Rolling- Stone
that it’s notnecessarily a“‘bad thing.

But it’s scary. It scares the s— out

of us.” A

Their more laid back approach
to music was a definite contrast to
the bottom-heavy grind of
Soundgarden that followed. The
“other” Seattle band, as they are
sometimes referred to by popular
music fans, rumbled through tunes
like “Outshined”, “Rusty Cage”,
and “Jesus Christ Pose” in estab-
lishing that they are the kings of
the heavy Seattle scene.
Soundgarden was developing an
avid following in the Northwest
before Kurt Cobain had begun to

. wine about teen spirit, and they

laid it out at Lollapalooza, espe-
cially in their version of the now-
banned Ice-T song, “Cop Killer”.

It was in this time out that I
decided to check out the Jim Rose
Sideshow. The show featured gro-
tesque displays of human endur-
ance for pain. Rose himself acts as
a human dartboard (and they’re
real, you can see ‘em quiver when
they hit) and places his face in a
bowl of broken glass. I lasted for
about ten minutes of the show. Mr
Liftall sentme packing after lifting
a concrete block on as chain by
using his nipple rings! AsI walked
away, I heard Rose describe a an-
other freak placed a pin into his
eyeball. :

In an attempt to ease my
stomach’s discomfort, I then went
to watch Ice Cube follow
Soundgarden in the time slot that
was dominated last year by Ice-T
andhis band BodyCount. Cube did
O.K., but his constant belting of
“mutha f**ka” and the chanting of
“f**k you, Ice Cube” to earn an
encore was too much for my ear-
drums. Much the same can be said
for Ministry. The thrash/industrial .
group demanded the late time slot ,
if they were to play on the tour (for
their over-strobed light show),
which probably cost the time slot
for a better, more popular band

(read: Pearl Jam, Soundgarden).

However, their constant thrashing
and pounding finally ceased with
the crowd anxious for the Chili
Peppers.

Needless to say, the Chili Pep-
pers were the best act of the shows.
They played several tunes off their
latest album; Blood Sugar Sex
Magik, such as “Give It Away”,
the title cut, “Suck My Kiss”,.and
“Power of Equality”. The only
downer of the set was the cheesy
butane-illuminated-sing-along
during “Under the Bridge”. The
Peppers made up for it, though,
with such older treats as “Magic
Johnson”, “Higher Ground”, and |
“Stone Cold Bush” from Mother’ s

- Milk and “Me & My Friends” and

“Special Secret Song Inside” from ©
Uplift Mofo Party Plan. Their set
was dominated on both nights by
Flea, their enigmatic bass player
who was clad only in BVD’s and
combat boots. His cover of Neil
Young’s“*TheNeedleand the Dam-
age Done” was a prelude to the
band’s cover of Hendrix’s “Cross-
town Traffic” with silver, flame-
throwing torch-helmets on their
heads.

As you can tell, both of these
tours-featured enormous amounts
of music and other associated |
freakiness that could be dangerous
to the unprepared participant. Both
of these tours have plans to con-
vene again next year, although the
H.O.R.D.E. is more likely to fea-
ture many of the same artists than
is Lollapalooza. Perry Farrell is
constantly searching for the new-
est “alternative” acts for his tour,
while the H.O.R.D.E. is more of a
collaboration among groups (WSP,
Phish, ARU, etc.). Regardless, we
can all hope that the plans will
come to fruition, and we can all
have more fun while we overload
our Circuitries again.
