THE DAVIDSONIAN v NEWS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992 5

Post
Office

’ Contiued from page 1

was a little put out that “the post

office thinks we’re such a bother,” -

and said it wasn’t reasonable to

facility be located?. Second, how
would cost be divided between the
College and the Post Office for its
construction?

Sutton said “I don’t like the
idea. I think [the post office] is an
important link between the stu-
dents and the town.” The post
office facilitates a support rela-
tionship between town and col-
lege, and the new proposal would

Spencer

Continued from page 1

that...[Spencer] has ended. Never-
theless, the women of Spencer
House meet this transition looking
forward to continued and expanded

" participation in the life of Davidson

College.” Dean Terry felt the clos:
ing to be unfortunate but believed
it to be a commentary on the fluid
nature and “capricious existence”
on Patterson Court.

6

Want to Sell Something? ~

_- Use the Davidsonian
Classifieds to Advertise (As

long as its legal) Coming
Soon. Contact Harrison at -

| 6200 or -2148 for more info

Patterson Court Preside
David Wright said that the closing
of Spencer leaves a void and that
the eating house’s roleon the Court

assume that vandalism was neces-
sarily student-caused.

Elaine Conner, Davidson’s
Postmaster, said that Was not the
case. “We love the Davidson Col-
lege students. That’s not the prob-
lem. What we want to do is pro-
vide an on-campus postal service
for their convenience.”

But Bob Sutton, Vice-Presi-
dent for Business and Finance for
Davidson, feels the proposal as it
now stands does not come any-
where near meeting the college’s
needs. First, where would the new

will be missed. Fortunately, the
three remaining eating houses are
“flexible enough” and “healthy

> enough” to fill the void left by

seem to further isolate the students
and the college from the surround-
ing community.

Since January, the College has
been more involved in the postal
process, and already provides some
on-campus postal services. Cen-
tral Services sells stamps, handles
incoming and outgoing UPS, Fed-
eral Express, Certified Mail, Ex-
press Mail, Next-Day and Over-
night for faculty, staff, and stu-
dents.

: Davidsonian

Spencer’s termination.

The Spencer House building
now sitsempty. According to Dean
Terry, in the future itmight be used
as 4 cocd cating house. It also
might possibly even function as
the future SAE house if the frater-
nity is readmitted to Patterson
Court.

Make Leslie
Happy and
Recycle this

PAY FOR
MEDICAL
SCHOOL.

QW Today’s Air Force offers a

scholarship program that can
help pay the cost of medical | — ®
school. If selected, you can contin-
ue your present studies — and
stop worrying about how to pay
for them. Participation is based on
competitive selection. For informa-
tion with no obligation, talk to an
Air Force representative. Call

USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS
COLLECT
919-850-9673

FoRce>

7.

Apple Macintosh PowerBook" 145 4/40

Get over *400 worth of preloaded software when you buy one of the
Apple® Macintosh® computers shown above at our best prices ever.

- And if you are interested in financing options, be sure to ask for
details about the Apple Computer Loan. But hurry, because student

For further information visit
Computer Services Center
“Contact Susie Abernethy at x2432

© 1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. Classic isa registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. PowerBook is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. The Random House Encyclopedia is a trademark

of Random House, Inc. American Heritage Electronic Dictionary, Electronic Thesaurus, and CorrecText® developed by Houghton Mifflin Company; publisher of The American Heritage Dictionary and Roget's Il: The New Thesaurus. CorrecText underlying technology developed by

Language Systems, Inc. Calendar Creator is a trademark of Power Up Software Corporation. ResuméWriter is a trademark of Bootware Software Company, Inc. All product names are the trademark of their respective holders. Offer good on the Macintosh PowerBook 145 4/40 configuration
only: All qualifying computers come preJoaded with software and electronic versions of instructions. Disks and printed manuals are not included in this offer.

Apple Macintosh Classic’ II

Apple Macintosh LC II

The Macintosh.
Student Aid Package.

Apple Macintosh IIsi

aid like this is only available through October 15, 1992 — and only at
your authorized Apple campus reseller.

