16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 2, 1992

THEB

ACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With Dean of Students Will Terry Concerning the Proposed Alcohol Policy

By Tom Koonce and Tom Price

Davidsonian:: Could you give a background of how this
new proposed alcohol policy came about and when this
whole process began?

Terry: The process started when they changed the law to
21-years-old and at that point college lawyers said that the
thing to do was to build two policies, one for the college and
one for Patterson Court. The less jurisdiction the college
had over Patterson Courtlegally, the better. They mandated
the forming and the requirement ofa Patterson Court policy
in the Davidson College alcohol policy. But, of course, I
think it has not worked and I think the trustees do not think
it has worked, that alcohol abuse has been pretty bad. One’
of the things that I resented about it all, there was-‘no way
around it given the law and given responsibility on the
college’s part to. enforce the law, it eliminated my going
down on the court. I used to go down to the court regularly,
but I haven’t been down on the court in five years.

It has isolated me from students, they only see me now
in official capacities and I don’t have my hand on the pulse
like I used to. So, the policy did not work. The Trustees at
every meeting have brought up the question of alcohol and
their sense that there was a lot of abuse. They get this from
parents, they get this from their own children, they get this
from students and they getit from the faculty. We discussed
this in every meeting of my committee since the beginning.
I finally said.to them that this policy is not working. And
they said ‘we know that.’ I proposed to them that we have
a campus-wide policy because we are no more liable with
that than we are now. I sense that we are sitting on a powder-
keg and something could happen down there:any night and
we would all be in duck soup, including the houses, particu-
lary now with a new ruling in the North Carolina court that
imposes host liability. This means that if something hap-
pens, not only the officers of the house, but every member
of the house, could be held responsible. That imposes a real
threat.

I think basically the Trustees felt and I feel, and I don’t
want this to be misinterpreted, that the college has some
moral obligation in this area. If we think alcohol abuse is
rampant, that the college has some responsibility to speak to
that. So, they told me to design a policy. They were very
insistent that students have a voice in it and I certainly
understand the political logic of that if nothing else. But, the
policy that I have presented is a policy that expresses what
I think are the realistic issues involved and.a policy which
is a basis from which I think we can develop one that they
will accept.

’ Davidsonian: What’s the process for getting student input?

Terry: There are several processes. I presented it to the
‘Patterson Court presidents the other night and we dis-
cussed it for an hour. They will now begin to work on it. I
presented it to the CCRL Thursday and we had a long
discussion. That group will finally give the last input to it,
it is their primary responsibility to.advise me on that. They
are advisory to the President and to me, so they will be my
ultimate advisors on this, but obviously PCC is very very
important to this. I’m going to carry it to the Conduct
Council because it will effect some things in the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure, and its another group of students
and faculty to work through it. Then, Anthony Foxx
(President of the SGA) hasan ad-hoc group with the SG, and
they are going to discuss it and bring to me suggestions.
Then I will try to correlate all the suggestions and take them
to the CCRL and say how do we bring order out of these
many voices.

Thursday we (CCRL) talked around and everybody
griped about what they didn’t like in the policy. At the end
I told them to look at the objectives of the policy I said ‘Are
there any of those objectives that the council does not agree
with?’ They basically
houses and design a policy that meets these objectives and
Thaven’t gotany problem. Now, there’s another thing in the
policy that I think is very important that interestingly
nobody has commented on. The realities to recognizing,
promulgating and enforcing an alcohol policy, and that is

idno. I told them to take it totheir—

that alcohol. is the drug of choice for a majority of our
students. These students arrive with prior experience with
alcohol, alcohol abuse is real on the Davidson campus and
that abuse is presently adversely affecting the quality of
academic life. This is the real clincher, many students come
to Davidson with strong opposition to serious alcohol regu-
lations. That’s what’s coming through loud and clear in all
these discussions, from a lot of students, not from all of
them, but from a lot of students. Students basically want to
be able to drink without anybody monitoring it.

Davidsonian: We heard, through the SGA President, that
you had some major personal concerns in proposing this
policy.

Terry: One is abuse, and that’s my primary concern. One
is that we have some good faith effort in supporting the law,
which I think we have an obligation to as an institution
established by. the state. Well, I guess third is to be
responsible to the Trustees to bring a policy that protects the
college and individuals in a reasonable way. I emphasize
in the introduction of the policy, that this has to be a
community-wide effort. The faculty has to do its part in its
particular realm of influence, which is in the classroom and
its requirements. The Trustees and the administration have
to be willing tospend some money if we are going to provide
some alternative ways to change the pattern of alcohol use
on this campus. Like the 900-Room open more often, like
the snack-bar or the Commons open late at night, meaning
twoorsoin the morning. That’s just something we are going
to have to be willing to do.

Davidsonian: We were interested in your proposal to close
all parties at certain times, because it seems like: if the
alcohol is stopped before then, that students have this place
to goand dance and socialize with no alcoholavailable from
the houses. It seems like that would be in keeping with the
same idea that you are saying.

Terry: That may be true, I’m willing to acknowledge that
point. I guess the reason I putitin like that is that lam so
conscious of the faculty’s great concern about students
cutting class and coming to class hung-over and that sort of
thing. It is entirely possible that if really do cut off the
alcohol at 11:30 that the party could go on longer than
that. That may be something I didn’t see. That’s a good
point, I don’t have any problem with it. I think limiting

the number of weekday problems is probably a good idea.

left that blank. Somebody suggested that we go back and

look at how many parties had actually been registered -in
the course of this year, to have some realistic view of that.
I guess another point is to gradually change the pattern of
drinking on campus. I don’t think that can be done ina year,
it will take at least a student generation to do.

I think the kind of expectation that we as a college com-
munity present to prospective students is very important. I
think in the past, atSGA Weekend particulary, we have pre-
sented a pattern that-we are a party school. Therefore, we
have attracted a lot of people for whom that is appealing. I
think the way in which the Admissions Office presents this
college is very important to the kind of people we get here,
particulary those people who no nothing much about
Davidson before they start the application process.

I think the more serious issue raised in this thing as far
as the mechanics are concerned is how is this going to be

monitored. I’ve gotten no discussion on that so far. Whois:

going to monitor this policy on the court? I give four
alternatives and there may be others. Its not working now
and I think everybody knows that. There is something else
that I want to emphasize, I think there are students who are
upset that this has come, but its also my contention that PCC

and Patterson Court itself has tinkered with it, the present.

policy about as much as they are ever going to tinker with it
to geta two-thirds vote in the house and athree-fourths vote
of the houses, Ireally put a lot of effort into this last year to
get the PCC to modify their policy: I think the presidents

made a valiant effort in most cases, but some of the things |

were defeated like beer and wine only.
Davidsonian: Speaking on that, how are individuals who
bring liquor down to the court on their own going to be
governed?

Terry: They shouldn’t be allowed in the house.
Davidsonian: Does that include formal weekends also?

Terry: Well, as it presently stands. Somebody raised at the
PCC meeting something about Homecoming weekend. I
understand that as an issue. But, after all we don’t run
Patterson Court for the alumni. Duke has gone to this policy
fairly effectively, of being beer and wine only. I think that
eliminates the punch, it eliminates the Kamikaze thing
which I just think is insanity. If you don’t have punch you
don’t have to worry about the problems it causes. I think
people don’t get drunk as quickly on beer and wine. I don’t
mean they can’t get justas drunk, but they just don’t do it as
fast.

Davidsonian: What are the reasons for the 50% alcoholic-
50% non-alcoholic distribution and the requirement of non-
alcoholic beer at parties?

Terry: I don’t feel strongly about the non-alcoholic beer at
all. If we want tostrike that out, that would be the first
thing I would be willing to let go. As far as the 50-50 thing,
some people thought that was too much, on the other hand
some people did not feel that way if you include food as well
as other things. But, let’s remember also that if we cut down
the bringing in from upstairs, there’s going to be more
people drinking other things.

Davidsonian: Do youmean pened? bringing their o own beer
to parties?

Terry: No, I mean people will be drinking soft drinks. If
people aren’t bringing handfulsof cups from downstairs for
people to drink, people will be drinking other things than the
beer from downstairs, i.e. Cokes or whatever non-alcoholic
drinks they have there. Somebody said it ought to be a dollar

amount rather than 50-50 and I don’thave any problem with

that. I think the food-can be better than just chips. It can be
hot dogs, it can be nachos -things that really take some time
because my impression is that this has been a very half-
hearted effort to provide food and alternative beverages. In
fact, its almost been a joke. So, I think people can spend
more time doing that and provide better food and alterna-
tives. Somebody else said they thought it would be very
important to have a server at the food location.

I guess one of the things that interests me about some of —
the reaction to this is itsays something pretty scathing about
the willingness of Davidson students to be creative about
their social life. I think a lot of people think that the
Davidson social scene is pretty boring, its the same thing
week after week. I think that’s true. There was the attitude
from the PCC meeting that there wouldn’t be much rushing
done. If it couldn’t be wet than there wouldn’t be much
rushing. My question to that is if the fraternities are only
interested inrush that involves the heavy use of alcohol, and
if they can’t have that and aren’t sure they even want to
bother with it, then maybe we need a new social system. If
the only reason for having fraternities is to provide beer,
which is the word that comes through loud and clear from
some camps, then maybe we need tolook elsewhere. That’s
just something that occurs to me.

Davidsonian: The big fear in all of this that Davidson
parties are going to end up with people guarding coolers
(bringing | their own ‘gn such as at Chapel Hill. :

Terry: 1 would think as it seems to work other places with
the BYOB, that the house provides a place anda dispenser.
No, I’m not interested in people bringing their stuff and
sitting around guarding their coolers. Ithink that’s a

disaster all the way. We’re not going to do that, I'd rather
we do what we _ have now than that. We don’t want cool-
ers sitting around, everyone guarding their own coolers,
that starts fights and provides as much or more © alcohol

‘than we have now.

‘Dabidsonian: Could you talk about what effect all this will

have on rushing and pledging,

See "Terry" on page 5
