THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992 3
English Dept. Proposes Changes Burnham
Continued from page 1

By Mandy Curtis
Changes in the English De-
partment have recently been pro-
posed. A request for new English
major requirements was approved

by the Educational Policy Com-:

mittee on November 16. The revi-
sions will be required for English
majors in the class of ‘96.
Randy Nelson, Acting Chair
. for the English Department, de-
scribed the proposal as a “‘conclu-
sion to a year-long self study.”
* Recommended by Dean Robert
Williams, the English Department
took on the task a year ago in
reviewing the English curriculum
with a specific concentration on
the, major requirements. Accord-
ing to Nelson, faculty members
and outside evaluators from other
colleges did a “complete and thor-
ough audit.”

The English Department re-
quested two new courses of En-
glish 220 and English 345. If ap-
proved, English 220, "The Study

of Literature," will be a course
designed to develop literary skills
of. interpretation and research,
emphasize close reading and writ-
ten analysis of poetry, fiction, and
drama. This will be arequirement
for English majors in this year’s
freshman class.
English 345, "Studies in Me-
dieval Literature," will be another
offering ializing in literature
suchas Me#lieval Drama, Arthurian

~Literature,\or Medieval ‘Women

Mystics. This course will be an
elective within the major.
Currently, the English major
is broken down into three plans of
concentration. Students have to
makea choice between British and
American Literature, the Self-De-
signed Major, or the Writing Em-
phasis. Within each of the areas of

the three, majors are to take the

given requirements of the specific
concentration.

The biggest change in the En-
glish major will be the elimination

of these three areas. Revised, it
will be “‘a fundamentally self-de-
signed. program of study,” ex-
plained Nelson. Students will be
able to have their concentration in
literature or in writing within the
self-designed major.

Requirements, if approved,
will consist of English 220, 240,
260, and 280, preferably completed
by the end of junior year and one
300-level course in modern litera-
ture from courses 372-394. Senior
Colloquium, English 495 and a
seminar numbered English 400-
494 will be required. Three elec-
tives, two atthe 300-level or higher
and one at the 200-level or higher
will also be part of the major.

The revised major will “in-
crease flexibility for the students,
more than anything else,” stated
Nelson. He continued to explain
that it will make the “bookkeeping
a lot cleaner...We’re very excited
about it”

Union

Continued from page 1

feltthe at that time, and still feels,

that Johnston would be a “close to

ideal location” for the Union. “With

the right kind of. dreaming and

money Johnston could become an
_ exciting place,” Brown says.

Plans were furthered in 1988, :

when students, faculty, and staff
wrote a 135-page book giving a
very thorough description of what
would be needed and wanted in a
new Union. Although the book was
written’ with the knowledge that
Johnston would be an available
site for the Union, Brown says that
the ideas contained in the book
could be used in any location of a
new Union.

Since this detailed. plan was
written four years ago, events have
been out of Brown’s control. He

has been waiting for word from

Davidson’s Facilities Planning
Committee about whether or not a
new Union will take top priority on
their list of major projects. When-
ever that happens, Brown and oth-
ers will eagerly get to work re-
evaluating the 1988 plan, and “will
invite everybody to participate” in
developing concrete plans for a
new Union.

But while Brown must wait,

Students are pressing the issue,
hoping to generate ‘some results.
Anthony Foxx, student body presi-
dent, feels very strongly about the
need for anew Union. He said that
this year’s new alcohol policy
shows the college’s need for more
diverse social options, which can
be better facilitated ina new Union.
Healso thinks that Davidson’s iso-
lated location gives the school an
increased responsibility to provide
more social options for its stu-
dents. Foxx said there is “a general
dissatisfaction with the current
Union facilities” from students, as
well as others.

At last week’s SGA meeting,
aletter was drafted that will be sent
to Brown, as well as to President
Kuykendall, Dean Terry, and Dr.
John Kelton, the Chair of the Fa-
cilities Planning Committee. It
states, “the reality is that the present
Union facility is inadequate for the
further steps of providing enticing
options beyond Patterson Court and
reaching the lead inclusiveness that
Davidson College badly needs. In
response, we, the student senators,
respectfully request that a new col-
lege union ‘be the next capital
project.”

Kelton, whose Facilities” s
Planning Committee isresponsible
for determining the school’s build-

_ ing priorities, says that “the Union

ATTENTION:

Those individuals interested

in Editorial Board positions
on the 1993 Davidsonian —

Staff should contact walieg
Price at -2148 or -6642 —

as soon as possible! —

Positions available include: editor-in-
chief, associate editors, section edi-
tors and others.

isa top priority” for the committee,
and that “Johnston Gym is one of
several sites being considered” for
the Union. He said that it is still not
clear whether the plans for a new
Union will involve renovating an
existing structure or the construc-
tion of an entirely new one some-
where else on campus, and that he
could not name where that loca-
tion would be.

Neither could Kelton say
whether a new Union was his
committee’s top priority, but he
did say that would be decided “‘in
the next month or two.” His com-
mittee will be meeting with an
outside consultant who has been
hired to evaluate a master plan for
the campus in early Decémber.
After the December meeting,
Kelton said, a decision will be made
“about timing and setting” for a
new Union. .

Foxx, Brown, and many oth-
ers feel that now is the time for a
new Union to be built, and that no
excuses Should be made for put-
ting it off any longer. However,
they, along with everyone else,
must sit back and wait to see
whether or not the Union has top
priority for the members of the
Facilities Planning Committee.

‘Come see our selections in
all-cotton Rugbys,
necks,

Sportshirts. by Cross
Creek,
London Fog.
Also,

Quality & Fashion Apparel for Men & Women

media effort not to give Americans a fully accurate representation of
events and trends, individual reporters are often guilty.

For example, an important journalist named Bill Bradley was
influenced by President Kennedy to suppress or edit stories
in Newsweek during the early 1960’s.— Another journalist whom
Bumham mentioned helped shape one Justice Department opinion
and then wrote about the ruling without informing his readers that he
had played a major role in the outcome of the event.

Burnham believes that the news mediaasa wholeis conservative
and _ not aggressive enough. It thus concentrates on stories which
recount daily events (such as hurricanes and fires) and ones which
report the views and sayings of important leaders insociety. While the
media went through two periods of inquisitiveness and skepticism in
the1900’s and early 1910’s as well as the Sixties, the media has often
been passive. Since the election Ronald Reagan in 1980, according
to Burnham, the media has become neutral and passive.

Burnham believes that the media needs to do more investigative
reporting, such as covering national trends and other long-term
stories. According to Burnham, one way of doing so could be to
examine the idea that the ILR.S. is mismanaged: it tends to treat
taxpayers in some areas of the country more harshly than in others,
even though the I.R.S. operates by uniform laws and should train its
employees to treat all Americans with same degree of gentleness or
harshness. Burnham has also found that New York City judges work
less on Mondays and Fridays than during the middle of the week,
while prisoners are kept waiting. Environment enforcement also
differs from region to region of the country, Burnham has found.

During the question and answer session following the 54 minute
speech, some audience members expressed pessimism about the
abilities of the media to publish question-raising investigative stories
in the future, in the face of declining news staff sizes and pressurés to
not publish controversial stories which might tar advertisers’ reputa-
tions,

Burnham, however, remains optimistic. He believes that the
public needs and wants to know what is really going on in America;
if the public is kept in the dark, American democracy may be
threatened. ;

Honor

Continued from page 2
sanction is Suspension; in Which Case the vote must be unanimous.

When a decision has been reached, the Chairman and Secretary go to
the defendant to inform him or her of the decision.

A common point of ‘concern involves the role of precedent. A
small amount of precedent is used only i in that it is a part of experience,
guiding thought processes, and honing decision-making skills. Expe-
rience is a valuable tool for a panel member. Yet a panel is composed
of members with differing amounts of experience, so it is not impera-
tive that a member be experienced for a given trial (for there will be
some experienced members there).

As to the question of precedent, it can be said that every case is
very different. There should be some standards (how harsh is too
harsh, how much evidence against a defendant is too much, etc.) for
making decisions on guilt or,on sanction; but each case is weighed
individually, not as it relates to others. No two Council members will
draw upon the same personal resources for precedent.

Itis for all these reasons that precedent exists as only an insignifi-
cant personal guideline for the Council member making a decision.
Drawing the line between how much precedent is too much is not an
easy task, but a Council member in executive session takes the task
very seriously and always gives the defendent the benefit of the doubt.

I know that many of you have questions; and I hope that you will
not hesitate to ask them of a Council member, Solicitor, or Defense
Adviser. ,

Turtle-

Sweaters, and knit

Woolrich, and

Cotton Duckhead Khakis.

John Mack & Son

128 North Main St.
9 AM til 6 PM Mon -

Downtown Mooresville

Fri; Til 5. PM Sat. Ph.664-4711

