8

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1992

Don't Tread On Me: Tom Norwood.
Davidson Misses the Mark

_ This year Davidson is busy
restructuring in an attempt to make
the campus the Utopia it once was.
lampleased to ste that the changes
in College policy concerning alco-
hol, freshmen, and the banishment

of SAE has made our beloved -

school almost perfect. The abuse
of alcohol has stopped, and stu-
dents are now devoting their full
attention toacademics. Racism and
the harassment of women are an-
cient memorics, and freshmen are
learning that here at Davidson we
are all just one big happy family.
~~ Actually, here at Davidson as
Ice-T would say, _ _ it ain’t like
that. Once again Davidson is so far
out of touch with the majority of
students that these attempts at
change have flat out failed.

First, the new alcohol policy
has had little or no effect on the
amount of alcohol consumed by
students. Students are still drink-
ing, and they always will. The par-
tics have simply moved to the apart-
ments and off-campus. Freshmen
are not allowed to be “entertained

by_ upperclassmen off-campus”
until October 5. On the surface,
keeping freshmen away from these
parties seems like a great idea, but
upon further examination one can
see that this idea only looks good
on paper. I recently asked a fresh-
men what he did at night because
he could not go to parties. He said
that the freshmen sit in their rooms
and play drinking games like the
Century club (a shot a beer every
minute for a hundred minutes). If
that doesn’t bother you there is
something wrong with you.
‘Racism and the harassment of
women has not stopped because of
the banishment of SAE. Rebel flags
still hang in dorm rooms, and be-

hind-closed-doors racism is thriv-
. ing. Guys are still getting drunk

and saying things that ‘they
shouldn’tto women. Kicking SAE
off campus might have made the
College look good, but again it did
nothing to solve the problem. Al-
though it is casy to scapegoat a
group, these problems are indi-
vidual problems. Racism and bad

attitudes toward womenare learned
at home not in a fraternity. Again
Davidson, you’ ve missed by a mile.

Lastly, freshmen do not allow
yourselves to be brainwashed by
the College. Every year they tell a
wonderful story about how fresh-
men hallmates are living together
as seniors even though they are in
different eating houses and frater-
nities. I’m not saying that it is not
important to know a wide varicty
of people, but it is only natural to
find a group you like and spend
most of your time with them. For
example, aclassic complaintI hear
is that because black students eat
together at dinner they are reverse
racist. Wrong! It’s not racist that
they choose to sit together. They
sit together because they share
common interest which is the ex-
act reason I sit with my friends.
Don’t ever let anyone tell you that
spending a majority of your time
with one group is wrong. Well, I
have rambled on for too long. Until
next weck, remember to be true
yourself.

If You Don't Like This It's Due to the
Lack of Barley and Hops In Your Diet

By Casey Otis and Rick
Thurmond
Welcome back to Dryson, I
mean Davidson. The Davidson
administration, or whoever is in
control, decided that Davidson
needs to destroy that awful party
school image and once again be-
come an academic institution.
These people feel that Davidson’s
integrity has been marred’by that
whopping onc star rating in Play-
boy magazine. As a result, they
intend to push the academic rating
higher than the price of Heincken.
Their solution for this
graveproblem is the new alcohol
policy.

It’s possible, though, that this *

: policy is simply a covert operation
to alleviate the parking problem.
Then again, maybe they just want
to screw us. Scriously, though,
this will give us a chance to really
get to know our hallmatcs, even if
they area bunch of losers. We will

also get tthe opportunity to Icarn
every nook and cranny of the back
ofour doors. Hell, with all this free
time on their hands, i.e. no parties,
maybe more pcole will become
dorks (like us) and write a real
column. Onthe downside, though,
the total lack of partics involving
free beer will make it even harder
for us to scope for frchmen girls.
Hell, it was pretty hard before.
Since we arc still on the subject of
the alcohol policy, (which should

give us cnough matcrial until we-

graduate, if we graduatc) let’s ap-
plaud those men and women: in
bluc (and red) who handed out an
outstanding 150 tickets the first
week. Weknowit’scarly, but with
alittle practice, ya’llcan buy some
real cars!

Of course, the college could
be doing usa favor. By shoving us
into the outside world, they are
forcing us to interact (party) with
different types of people. There’s

Bubbaat the Pub, Biff and Buffy at
Duke, and various neighbors in the
side streets of Davidson, At least
no more Queenies will be coming
here for parties, because there
won’t be any. The alcohol policy
is not the only tradition that has
been changed this year. That’s
right, no more exclaiming, “Golly,
that tastes good!” while eating a
B&E. Butlect’s look at the positive
side. Colders 29 is still cight bucks
acase. In the long run, more like
the marathon, we really do think
everybody will be a little more
thankful for those extra parking
spaces on the weckend. And the
Pub will appreciate the business.

Maybe, though, some good,
besides the extra parking spaces,
will come of this after all. Perhaps
anew sense of social harmony will
develop. perhaps we will soon sce
SAEs and Sig Eps embracing.
Yeah, and Gilligan will get off that
damn island. .

Your Honor System

By Matt Bumstead

Upon entcring Davidson, ev-
ery one of you signed a statement
in which you bound yourself to
live under the auspices of the
Davidson College Honor Code.
Upperclassmen quickly came to
see (as the freshmen soon will) that
itis neither difficult nor onerous to
live under the Code; rather, it is a
privilege that enables us to live
more freelyand openly. Few stu-
dents can disagree that the Honor
Code is the cornerstone of the col-
lege community, and that its
smooth operation is essential to
the type of life and interrelations
we enjoy.

Yet there is one aspect of the
Honor System that has often.times
been viewed by. many students with
a great deal of apprehension; they
- feel uneasy about the secretive or,

at least, unnoticed workings of the

judicial end of the system under .

the jurisdiction of the Honor Coun-
cil.

Whether or not the present
system ofan elected Council com-
posed of students who serve from
the time of election until the end of
their college care Your Honor Sys-
tem

Upon entering Davidson, ev-
ery one of you signed a statement
in which you bound yourself to
live under the auspices of the
Davidson College Honor Code.
Upperclassmen quickly came to
see (as the freshmen soon will) that
itis neither difficult nor onerous to
live under the Code; rather, it is a
privilege that enables us to live
more freely and openly. Few stu-
dents can disagree that the Honor

Code is the cornerstone of the col-
lege community, and that its
smooth operation is essential to
the type of life and interrelations
we enjoy.

Yet there is one aspect of the
Honor System that has often times
been viewed by many students with
a great deal of apprehension; they
feel uncasy about the secretive or,
at least, unnoticed workings of the
judicial end of the system under
the jurisdiction of the Honor Coun-
cil. ;

Whether or not the present
system of an elected Council com-
posed of students who serve from
the time of election until the end of
their college careers is the most
effective and the fairest way to
operate is a question that has been

See "Honor" on page 9

Liberal

Continued from page 6

/

proven economic stimulator; it encourages investment, home buying,
real estate and stock market investment, and small business starts. All
this means jobs, less unemployment and welfare recipients, more tax-
payers, and more revenue. Combine this with controlled spending and
you’ve got your balanced budget and eventually deficit reduction.
Inéreasing taxes on business will stiflé growth, cost jobs, and businesses
will pass the misery on to the consumer, equaling inflation, Remember
Carter? #1) First of all let me say that man (inclusive) is the primary
species on this planet. That fact does not warrant the mistreatment of our
environment; however, wheri you say that a Subspecies of owl is more
important than 30,000 American jobs, some of which will be given the
duty of replanting those forests, you have crossed the line of humanitari-
anism into panthcism.

Did you know that tribal natives, hired out to build hundreds of
wood and thatched housing for “Earth Summit” delegates, chopped
down hundreds of acres of Brazilian forests for the materials? What is
shameful is that with the Bio-diversity treaty these true hypocrites
wanted to punish the U.S., who cleans up more pollution than any other
country in the world.and hasn’t even the first rain forrest.

The Jast straw is the author’s paltry attempt at being unbiased. Hcy,
it’s the Opinions page, say what you want, but I suggest such slanderous,
whimsical articles be confined to a comedy section.

Véry sincercly,
Thad Ellett

The
Frampster

Continued frompage 7
fauclty thing.
Well, that is only two, but that’s because I can only think of two.

(Yeah, I know what I said about millions.) You know, all this talk about —

the million little scams going on here at Davidson, brings up an
interesting point. We pay for this school,orat least close family members
and people who think we deserved scholarship money do. Pointis, it is
our school. So why I are we subjected to the college’s latest whims, like
this new alcohol policy.

I want an education from the school. I already have a personality.
That was what my parent’s did for me. Now let me make my own
decisions.

Anyway, doesn’t the Code of Responsibility say something about
creating responsible people with as few regulations as possible. (I’d
quote, but I couldn’t find an actual copy of the dern thing anywhere. Do
you think they’re hiding it?) There are so many regulations involved
with the new alcohol policy no one can figure out. Not even the people
who wrote the damn thing. Of course thatis because there are 31 seperate
rules involved in the whole thing. The alcohol policy is longer than the
Constitution and we haven’t been able to completely figure that thing out
in two hundred and some years. Jeez.

Oh, well. Take it easy.

- Kirby

Continued frompage 7

in social situations and how idiotically we express ourselves. For
example, why, and I refer more particularly, but not exclusively, to the
male student body, do we insist on punctuating our statements with the
profoundly crudite appellation “Dude” when we talk to another person’.
Why, and I refer now almost absolutely to the aforementioned group, do
we generally hold our topics of discussion down to the colossally
interesting subjects of women, sports, how foolish we acted last night
while intoxicated, and women? Why, andnowI meanall of us, do we feel
compelled to fit each thing we say into a five-second period for fear that _
we will overrun our audience’s attention span? Why don’t we listen to
each other?

I am not going to presume to have the answer to these most
perplexing questions, because, for one thing, I can’t seem to break these
habits myself. Maybe we all watched alittle too much Bugs Bunny orate
too many Doritos or sniffed too much Elmer’s as children— who’s to
‘say? On the other hand, I do feel that with a conscious effort on the part
of all of us, we can plunge into that level called THE RELEVANCY
ZONE (at least a little more often), and the naive high school senior in
allof us won't be so disappointed when he or she graduates from college.

