THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1992

Establishment of Quiet Dorms is Not the Solution

Recently, the issue of estab-
lishing quiet dorms, or quiet halls,
or extended quiet hours has come
to the forefront of attention. A
number of faculty feel strongly
that the dormitories are simply not
conducive to the aims of educa-
tion. A number of students heart-
ily disagree. 1 am inclined to
believe that the establishment of
quiet dorms or halls would do more
harm than good, and yet, I agree
that everyone has a right to enjoy
peace and quiet.

To my way of thinking, the
present quiet hour policy ( mid-
night to 7 a.m. on school nights)
leaves little room for improvement,
so long as it is respected by all hall
residents, and is suitably enforced
by R.A.s and Hall Counselors. On
some halls, apparently, the system

is not respected, or not enforced,
but the policy achieves, more than
anything else, a delicate balance
between those who run the dorms
like military barracks and others
who would keep kegs in the show-
ers.

The idea of a quiet dorm both-
ers alot of people, in principle and
in theory. Ifa quiet dorm is estab-
lished, does that mean all the other
residence halls are, inessence, loud
dorms? If the purpose of a
Davidson education, in addition to
teaching History or Chemistry or
Japanese, is to show people how to
live, how well will people deal in
the real world if they will have
always lived with other quiet
people in quiet dorms?

I see other problems as well.
Assume, for the sake of argument,

There 1s Indeed a
World Outside Our Microcosm

By Kirby D. Shealy

In the wake of several weeks
of discussion and argument about
conditions on this campus, I feel
compelled to alert the college
community to an event to which
we all should be giving at least
some of our attention. In case any
of you haven’t heard, the 1992
Presidential Election is fast ap-
proaching. Due to the issueless,
boring races we’ve had in the last
several years, I am convinced that
the majority of the American pub-
lic is going toho-hum right through
one of the most interesting and
potentially volatile contests in
recent years.

All of you Bush lovers out
there take heed. The formerly
untouchable incumbent, who, only
months ago, was riding high on
unprecedented approval ratings, is
now sweating his own renomina-
tion by the G.O.P. (well, a little
bit). Pat Buchanan didn’t do too
shabby in the New Hampshire
primary. Americans are finally
starting to realize that “winning”
the Gulf War was not the greatest
achievement of the twentieth cen-
tury, as Mr. President would have
us believe (I wouldn’t even put it
on my top-ten list). Isn’t it kind of
amusing to see the old boy scram-
bling to take a stab at long-ne-
glected social issues like: health
care only when his campaign advi-
sors are telling him that it’s in his
best interest forthe upcoming elec-
tion? Yes, Chris Malanuk, I am
committing that cardinal sin of
poking fun at THE PRESIDENT.

On the other hand, you do have
to give George Herbert a LITTLE
credit. He never made any prom-
ises to be some super-dynamic
Messiah with a world of ideas to
better the world. George thought
he had it made. He figured on
Reaganomics carrying him right
through his term without any need
for real leadership. He could just
smile a lot, throw in a couple of
“Read my lips. ..” and “a thousand
points of light” (whatever that
means), and he and Barb could
give lots of dinner parties in the

White House and go to Europe for
free, and everything would be just
DANDY. Youalso have to keep in
mind that a President that doesn’t
come to leadership naturally can’t
do a whole bunch on the domestic
front without Congress’ help. He
does have to WANT to deal with
domestic issues, though, if he or
she is to have a snowball’s chance
of being effective at all. That’s
debatable with Uncle George.

Which brings me to Bill Clin-
ton. Now I know that at least a
couple of you are already thinking
he’s a wife-cheatin’, draft-dodgin’
son-of-a-wife-beatin’-alcoholic
(well, you’re at least right about
the last part). The Gennifer Flow-
ers story and the allegations that
Clinton weaseled his way out of
going to Vietnam have taken quite
a toll on his campaign. However,
there’s alot to be said about him on
both counts. I think he has handled
the questions about his marital
infidelity quite well. Unlike Gary
Hart, he doesn’t pretend to be per-
fect and has been very honest and
open about his marriage’s past
problems. I think the Clintons are
to be commended for their candor,
and Bill Clinton the candidate
should be judged, not on the basis
of whether he has had an affair
before, but on his ability to resolve
the problems in his marriage and
put them behind him. Besides,
IT’S NONE OF OUR BUSINESS
ANYWAY.

Now, about this draft thing. If
you’ve been following this story
closely, you know that in the end,
Clinton didn’t really dodge the
draft, but he did not like the idea of
fighting in a war to which he
thought America was wrongfully
committed. Despite what your
personal feelings are about Viet-
nam, it is fair to say that a signifi-
cantpercentage of Americans had,
and still do have, the same kinds of

emotions about our involvement.

there. That’s why we have movies
like Born on the Fourth of July
today. In any event, you certainly
cannottake this issue and call Clin-
ton some unpatriotic, pinko lib-

Andrew
Spainhour

that Duke is chosen to be a quiet

a ou can’tcall Clinton a liberal
for other reasons as well, He is the
first centrist Democrat to come
down the pike in along time. Some
of you left-wing Republicans might
evenlike him. As Arkansas gover-
nor, for instance, he has cut wel-

fare spending 7%, saying “living -

on the dole can instill self-destruc-
tive values”.’ Sound like a typical
Democratto you? Clinton hopes to
improve education and health care
in this country, and not just by
throwing money at the problems,
but by raising expectations for
students and putting part of the
burden of health coverage on
employers. He proposes raising
taxes on the rich ($200,000/yr.+)
and those executives who insist on
making more than 25 times the
income of their workers. These are
the people that hold the majority of
the wealth in this country--why

not let them take some of the tax _

responsibility off the rest of us?
Since 1982, Clinton has been

the Governor of one of the poorest

states in the Union. During that

time, however, he has helped per _.

capita income grow 61%. How?
Clinton is an idea man, full of
charisma and enthusiasm. He has
anexcellenteducation (B.A. Yale,
Rhodes Scholar), having ‘pulled
himself out of a traumatic child-
hood, and he has had to learn what
it takes to be a politician. He’s
much more adept at starting pro-
grams with real meat to them than
he is at kissing your baby and tell-
ing you whatever you want to hear.

The other Democratic candi-
dates have lots to offer, too. Paul
Tsongas, the winner of the New
Hampshire primary, has, by most
critics’ accounts, the most viable
health-care plan of any of the can-
didates- I won’t assault you with
all their merits, butI dourge you to
take a look at all of the candidates
this year, instead of just roboti-
cally voting Republican again.

Incidentally, Iam not working
for Bill Clinton or any other politi-
cal organization. Iam registered to
vote, though. Are you?

nity in the long run. Ata time in
which we are hearing more and
more about the necessity of toler-
ance and respect for others, we
need to instill in everywhere a
desire to live responsibly in every
way. The establishment of a quiet
dorm would not achieve this.

The way to foster greater re-
spect for others, in every facet of
college life, is not to return to the
policy of in loco parentis.. Each of
us were told during our freshmen
orientations that Davidson College
is about freedom coupled with re-
sponsibilty. This must be reaf-
firmed in the actions of every stu-
dent.

dorm. A person with poor lottery
numbers may decide that the only
way to live up the hill would be to
commit to living in the quiet dorm
for the sake of location only, th-
erby subverting its intended pur-
pose.

Orassume that Akers is so des-
ignated--would enough people
want to live down the hill in the
name of peace and quiet? The
logistics of location alone would
prove troublesome to Richard
Terry and the Residence Life Of-
fice.

Inmy mind aquietdorm would
create more difficulties than it
would solve. Unquestioningly, we
need quiet hours, and from mid-
night to 7 is perfectly reasonable.
Butany greateraction would prove
detrimental to the college commu-

Lake

Continued from page 5

4

grape vineyard viewed from a train, not one sight is more special or
unique than another. Comparisons need not be made. Go out to the Lake
Campus one late afternoon as the sun is beginning to set and you might
see something just as beautiful.

_Itseems like JY A automatically triggers some ekind ofcliche expres-
sion like: “I found myself,” “What an adventure!” or “My eyes were
opened to so many things.” These are all so narrow, but so true. When
the editor implied that there are places “more interesting” than Europe
about which you beloved readers would love to hear, it frustrated me
because this person has no idea about what I see and what kind of people
Iencounter from day to day. Francei is more than a land of poet wine and

think.

Every corner of the world is represented by students at the university”
which I attend in Montpellier. Having contact with this richness in
diversity has opened my eyes and mind to the value of the exchange and
sharing between different cultures. However, we do not have to travel
to Africa, Israel, Germany, India, France or wherever else for our eyes .
and minds to be opened. Davidson is just as much a world in itself if you
letitbe. Solet your pathway take aturn sometime. Youneverknow what
you may discover around an unknown corner. I’1l join a few of you next
year to talk about what we all have found.

Correction from Sue Ross regarding
“Residence Life Office Maintains Busy
Schedule in Spring" in the February
17, 1992 issue of the Davidsonian.

nly Students who will NOT follow
ormal standards of progress should
check with the Registrar's Office be-
fore housing lottery and Registration
random numbers are run. A student
who is simply moving from Sopho-
more to Junior standing (which may
include summer work) has no cause
or alarm. However, if an "off
ack"sophomore for instance, this
pring will be a senior next fall, that

tudent should come by the registrar 'S
fice.

