THE DAVIDSONIAN S P O RT S

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 1992 11

Soccer

Continued from page 10
the upper left corner with a per-
fectly struck shot. Six minutes later,
Ukrop shocked the crowd by prov-
ing himself mortal; after being
taken down in the box, he missed
the penalty kick high and to the
right.

As_you-knew he would,
though, Ukrop redeemed himself
in the first overtime period. At
100:45, a throw-in bounced to him
dead center in the box about 10
yards out. He threw himself into
the air and initiated a bicycle kick
that hit a very surprised Shockley
inthe hands and continued into the
goal.

“The ball was just there and I
guess I caught him off-guard,”
Ukrop said. “It’s one of those goals
you dream about as a kid, I’d never
taken one in a game. I don’t even
try them in [teaching at Davidson’s
summer] camp because I always
hurt myself doing them.” The goal,
Ukrop’s 30th of the season and
75th of his career, gave the ‘Cats a
2-1 lead that stood up until the final
two minutes of overtime.

At 118:21,aloose ball made it
through the Davidson defense to
the right post, where Cozier poked
it in. Two 15-minute periods of
sudden-death overtime followed
before penalty kicks, periods
marked by the exceptional
goalkeeping of Deegan, including
a diving save just 10 seconds be-
fore full time.

Slagle was impressed with the
competitiveness and quality of the

play in’ the: game. “It was: very:

exciting,” he said. “I think the vic-
tors in this game are the soccer fans
of Mecklenberg County.” Many of
those fans packed an expanded 49er
Field for the game; announced at-
tendance was 3,500,many of whom
stood for the entire game, and at
least 500 more watched the game
from an adjacent hillside.

The consensus of opinion is
that those same fans should be able
to congregate at Richardson Field
next weekend for the Davidson-
Coastal Carolina second round
game. In the first three rounds of
the tournament, teams bid to host
games based on their ability to
attract and accomodate fans (and
bring in money for the NCAA).
Davidson’s bid is clearly superior
to the Chants’, so logic suggests
that the game will be played at
Davidson. The decision was an-
nounced today.

Coastal was invited to the tour-
nament amid some controversy;
an NCAA investigation into the
program is not yet complete. The
Big South Conference forced
Coastal to forfeit some of its wins
because it found that some of the
players on its roster had played as
professionals before coming to the
school. The Chanticleers, without
the players in question, earned a
decisive 3-0 win over the Wildcats
in Conway, S.C. October 24.

_ Write for
Sportsi!!
Call Bruce!

t

Hockey

Continued from page 12
as a team.”

Davidson wrapped up one of the most successful field hockey
seasons in the school’s history witha record of 15-2-1. The “Cats earned
13 shutout victories, largely due to junior goalkeeper Emily Coleman.
She allowed only six goals all season, and earned memorable shutout
victories against Richmond, Virginia Commonwealth and James Madi-
son, all of which were ranked in the national top 20 at some point during
the fall. She is ranked number nine in the nation in save percentage.

Davidson’s leading scorers were Dockter and Potts, with six goals
apiece; Hardesty and Kledis each scored five goals. Twelve different
players scored during the season. Ukrop led the team in assists with five.

“I can’t name one outstanding individual because I would have to
name the whole team,” Pryor said. “Every player has contributed in so
many different ways so many different times that having another team
just like this one will not be easy to duplicate. There was a sense of unity
which began with the senior class when they were freshmen and it has
carried over the past four years. I am very proud of what we have
accomplished. I want to continue this type of play and unity years to

Men's X-C

Continued from page 12
as the squad ran its best races in the final two championship meets.

Senior Peter Hurtado saved his best race of his career for last,
running a strong time of 34:14 (163rd). Hurtado hopes to translate this
into quick times on the track this spring.

Junior Richard Wharton, in perhaps his best race as a Wildcat, ran
with Hurtado for most of the way to finish at 34:29 (172nd). Sophomore
Erik McMichael was close behind at a personal-best time of 34:50
(186th).

The season can only be termed a success, as both coach and runners
had fun and drew the most from their abilities. The squad’s top five
harriers saved clutch career-best performances for the final two champi-
onship meets. Coach Andrew will be without three of his top five runners
next fall, but hopes for the continued development of sophomores
McMichael, Jimmy Moss and Joe Beach, and freshman John Bottomy.

Volleyball

Continued from page 12

the lineup for the Wildcats.

After a weekend road trip to Marshall University and East Tennes-
see State University, the Wildcats return home Tuesday night for their
final home match of the season against rival UNCC. The team hopes to
use the remaining three regular-season matches to gain momentum as
they head into the Southern Conference Tournament November 20-22 at
Furman.

Tennis

Continued from page 10
region] and challenge for [the Southern] Conference championship.”

Leading that challenge will be Kimberly Nance, who was Davidson’s
lone representative at the 64-player Rolex Southeastern Championship.
last weekend at the University of Tennessee in Knoxville. She is
currently ranked in the top 30 in the country.

Joining her will be Jennifer Beahm and Nicole Wilcox, who also
play doubles together. Beahm had a very strong performance at the
ETSU match. “All the players improved,” Price said, “but the [fall]
season went beyond expectations because of those three players. There
have been some outstanding signals. They knocked off some good
teams.”

Harriers

Continued from page 12

best races for the final two championship meets.

DeMoss, a junior captain, ran one of her strongestraces ever, a20:47
(228th). DeMoss hopes to lead the Wildcats to even better things next
fall.

Sophomore Laura Jordan (20:52, 231st) and junior Lisa Sitek
(21:07, 240th) both ran fine races for Davidson. Sitek will be missed by
the track squad when she goes abroad this spring.

Alicia Dandar wound up the scoring for Davidson with a solid time
of 22:34 to place 274th.

Coach Beth Manson was very pleased with the team’s effort this
season. Manson looks forward to the development of her young team and
hopes to challenge the best of the Souther Conference. The return of all
eight women, including those above and Carolyn Meadows, Phuong
Nguyen, and Marie Grisez, should translate into strong squads for
several years to come.

Dave Mader's

Model Racér

215 South Broad Street
Mooresville, North Carolina 28115
(704) 663-1068

’ Model Car Racing Returns to Mooresville
The Fastest Fun You Can Have Downtown
Store Hours

RACING CLASSES

Mon.-Fri. - 12.00 pm- 11.00 pm ARE FORMING
Sat. - 11.00am- 1100 pm SOON
Sun. - 1:00 pm - 11.00 pm

VISTA Volunteers share the vision of
a better tomorrow by making a contri- |
bution in the community today.
Brighter futures take shape when |
VISTA Volunteers mobilize and de-
velop community resourcesto address jy
the many faces of poverty.

After your college career is
completed, VISTA offers you the [¥
opportunity to put your education to | .
work in realistic settings. VISTA |
Volunteers learn life skills — skills
only a year of unique VISTA
experience can provide.

VISTA Volunteers are assigned to
project sponsors which may be pri-
vate or public non-profit organiza-
tions. Volunteer activities may include, but
are not limited to, organizing food distribu-
tion efforts, creating networks to support
literacy projects, or designing programs to

visi

Volunteers in Service to America
(VISTA) is part. of ACTION, the Federal Domestic
Volunteer Agency, Washington, D.C. 20525

combat substance abuse.

In addition to acquiring valuable
and rewarding experience, VISTA
Volunteers may receive deferment
or partial cancellation of certain stu-
dent loans. VISTA Volunteers
receive a living allowance based on
the economic level of the commu-
nities they serve.

As you look toward graduation,
jf consider becoming a VISTA
Volunteer. VISTA offers you the
opportunity to shape a community
and share a vision of a better
tomorrow.

To find out more, talk with VISTA
representative David Sackin at. the
Metrolina Career Consortium, November
16th and 17th at the Hilton at University
Place, Charlotte, between 8:30am-4pm. Or,
call 1-800-424-8867 (TDD 1-202-606-5256).

