THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992 9

Lilly

Continued from page 1

their possession. They came to the
front door of the SAE house and
asked if they could come inside.
Since self selection isaclosedevent
at most Patterson Court houses,
including SAE, a brother near the
door told them they should not
come inside, Eventually they per-
suaded him to allow.them to “pass
through.” Once inside the women
were caught in the action taking
place among the members of SAE.
Some water, which was being
thrown on various brothers and
freshmen, wasalso thrown onthem.
The floor was extremely slippery
and, duringthe course of events,
the two womenand two SAEs fell
to the floor. Afte-r the women got
up they decided to leave the house.
I did not see these women when
they were in the house so I cannot
faithfully report any further on
exactly what happened. Regard-
less of what happened while the
girls were inside the SAE house,
they felt intimitdated and the house
currently is talking about the event

in ahope to find out exactly what .

happened,

The second allegation stated
that a visiting student from Wake
Forest “gotintoa fight witha group
at SAE...and asa result of the fight
was hospitalized and has suffered
permanent damage to his vision.”
This statement continued,’A rep-
resentative from SAE visited him
in the hospital in an effort to avoid
legal proceedings.”

In actuality, a group of men

came. tothe SAE.houge-that night ;
from Wake Forest. At the startof —

the party they. were seen shooting
off a fire extinguisher and break-
ing bottles in the road in front of
the SAE house. Two SAEs, on
their way to the party, passed by
and asked them to stop. The Wake
Forest students were described as
being extremely intoxicated. Later
that evening, inside the party, a
Wake Forest student hit a sopho-
more SAE in the face. Another
wrestled a junior SAE to the floor.
They were told that-fighting was
not permitted on the grounds and
to go outside if they hada problem.
The campus police were called at
this time. Outside, things esca-
lated and punches were thrown on
both sides. One Wake Forest stu-

dent was hit in the eye. He was —

driven to the hospital by an SAE
pledge. I know the Wake Forest
student who was hit because he
lives a block from me in Raleigh,
North Carolina. We have known
one another since grade school. I
called him Sunday evening and
spoke candidly with him in aneffort
to find out exactly what happened.
Neither of us ever mentioned legal
proceedings nor have they been
mentioned since. He saw a doctor
in Raleigh on Tuesday and his eye
was said to be fine. His father is
not interested in pursuing legal
action over the incident. All of the

visiting men were in the same fra-

ternity at Wake Forest. Atthe time
of the visit, they were on probation
at Wake Forest for fighting.

The third element of the letter
states that an SAE “hasbeen mak-

ing repeated harassing and threat-

ening phone calls to an African

American student since last se-
mester.” There was in fact one
phone call placed to this student
and no more. The student has
confirmed this with a member of
the SAE house. It was the call to
which I referred earlier.

The fourth point made in this
letter refers to a threat that alleg-
edly occurred to the same afore-
mentioned student: “[Threatening]
him with a gang assault with base-

ball bats.” The person who alleg- .

edly said this reports that he never
said anything of the sortand that he
and the student have never ex-
changed harsh words.

The last charge made in the
letter was thatthe membersof Rusk
House, Kappa Alpha Order, and Pi
Kappa Alpha: fraternity “have
banned SAE members from their
house functions.” At present none
of these houses are practicing
such allegations.

Before the letter closes it re-,
fers to "anonymous and harassing

posters...on campus attacking the
Davidson chapter of F.L.A.G.”
While the letter does not say it in
specific terms, the insinuation is
that SAEs wére responsible for
these posters. Last semester SAE
voted in favor of the establishment
of a F.L.A.G. chapter.

In a lecture this semester on
the myth of Christopher Colum-
bus, .A.T. Miller said, “How are
we to. react, what are we to do? A
myth endorses belief. To put aside
the myth is to take on a different
view of the future.”

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, despite
what present events may lead you
to think, is currently and has al-
ways been extremely active in its
pursuit of bettering Davidson
College. Every other week for the
past ten years SAE brothers and
Warner Hall women have driven
to a retirement home in Hun-
tersville to sing with the people
who live there. In its eleventh year

the SAE Charity Calendar has
raised over $40,000 for the E.H.
Little Library. That is enough
money to provide the library with
approximately 80 new books ev-
ery year. It is the only Endowed
Book Fund established by a frater-
nity or eating house. Three years
ago, Davidson’s chapter of SAE

was the first fraternity in the nation ~

to sponsor the Time to Read pro-
gram for potential middle school
and high school dropouts. The
program had such a high degree of
success that it has since been ex-
panded to incorporate the entire

_Davidson student body.. SAE also

has been the top money raising
house forthe SGA Phonathon since
its establishmentin 1981. In addi-
tion, seven brothers, almost 15%
of the fraternity, either have been
or are currently Hall Counselors.
One of this year’s defense advisors
for the Honor Council was an SAE.
One of next year’s is as well. The

Most Valuable Defensive Player
on this year’s Davidson football
team is a pledge at SAE.

Though we are proud of our
involvement with the collegewe
still recognize the fact that we are
by no means perfect. Individuals
within our house have made mis-
takes this year. Likewise, the house
as a whole has made mistakes this
year. We are not asking that you
overlook them, nor are we asking
that you turn your head and forget.
We are asking that you, as mem-
bers of the Davidson College
Family, work with us to restore
Patterson Court and the College as
a whole to the way it is intended to
be. Fraternities and Eating Houses
exist for the benefitand enjoyment

-of all the students. It is our distinct

desire to help keep it that way.

Steven Clay Lilly ‘92

3 Ho goin

MpMse phie mt, nem

arcice?

— Itcanhelp you
ganize your notes,
design your party lye,
finish your class project
efore spring break.

The new Apple’ Macintosh’ Classic’ II
~ computer makes it easier for you to juggle
‘Classes, activities, projects, and term papers—
and still find time for what makes college life

reallife,

It’s a complete and | of a Macintosh Classic II, ask us.
affordable Macintosh Classic » about an upgrade—it can be
system that’s ready to help you _ installed ina matter of minutes
get your work finished fast. and it’s affordable. .
It’s a snap to set up and use. ‘To make more time
It has a powerful 68030 micro- for your personal life, get a
processor, which means you Macintosh Classic II for your
can run even the most. personal space. See us fora
sophisticated applications with demonstration today, and
ease. Among its many built-in while you're in, be sure to ask
capabilities is the internal Apple us for details about the Apple
SuperDrive” disk drive | Computer Loan.
that reads from It'll be time well
and writes to

F Introducing the Macintosh Classic I. i
For further information visit
_ Computer Services Center
~ Contact Ellen Maine at x2432

©1992 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks and SuperDrive is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. MS-DOS is a registered trademark
: of Microsoft Corporation. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc. This ad was created using Macintosh computers.

Macintosh and MS-DOS formatted disks—

allowing you to exchange information easily

with almost any other kind of computer.

If you already own a Macintosh Classic, and
want the speed and flexibility

: spent:

