4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 30 1992

Cheating

Conitinued from page 3

fatt.

Moffatt’s investigation included 400 Rutgers students who turned in
anonymous “self-reports” on subjects such as sexuality and cheating.
The results of the cheating question spurred him to write a 22-page
report.

“I received a great number of graphic papers that were in many more
ways shocking than the sexual self-reports. It threw me into a funk,” he
said.

Students confided to Moffatt that they cheated to get minimal grades
to survive, to get revenge on a disliked professor, or because they were
angry because others performed better academically without much
effort.

Moffatt said cheating often takes such an emotional and mental toll
that it would be easier to study. “They are in terror of being caught,”
he said of cheaters. “They will fight against the accusation.”

The professor said he has identified five commonly used cheating
techniques form the “lookabout,” where answers are borrowed from a
neighbor, to “ripple cheating,” which can consist of elaborate, premedi-
tated schemes with many involved.

Cheat sheets are so common that Moffatt actually legalized them in
his ‘class. Students are allowed to bring in one 8-by-10-inch piece of
paper with as much written on it as the space can contain. “It encour-
ages me to not ask stupid questions,” he said.

Cheating also takes other forms, such as plagiarism, paying some-
one to take a test or write a paper, or buying an already completed term
paper.

While many campuses wrestle with the problem of cheating, stu-
dents at the University of Virginia are celebrating the 150th birthday of
the nation’s oldest student-run honor system. -

For one week, beginning March 27, students take part in a four-day
conference on honor and integrity in the academic environment. The
topic is discussed at luncheons, dinners, lectures, and seminars.

Founded in 1842, Virginia’s honor system is simple: no lying,
cheating or stealing. There is only one punishment, students found
guilty of an offense by juries of their peers are dismissed from the
university.

While Virginia’s drastic disciplinary measures may not wash on
some campuses, many are tightening up their honor codes.

In 1985, when officials at the University of Delaware surveyed the
student body and discovered that 78 percent admitted to cheating, they
immediately revamped their honor code.

Now students caught cheating receive a grade of “XF” on their
transcripts. Cheating cases are evaluated by a student board, which is
known to be tougher on fellow students because they see themselves as
victims of cheating.

The University of Maryland also gives students an “XF” grade
which remains on the student transcript for a full year. After complet-
ing anon-credit six-week course on academic integrity, the students can
petition to have the “X” removed.

The spotlight has been on academic integrity for the past several
years.

“Officials say students seem increasingly willing to do anything to
get ahead,” reports an article on academic dishonesty that appeared in
the Chronicle of Higher Education (Jan. 17, 1990).

“The students are frightened about the job market. They’re search-
ing for the pre-wealth curriculum. The value of money is more
important to them than a code of honesty and sense of responsibility,”
said Arthur Levine, chairman of the Institute for Education management
at Harvard University, in the same article.

Ford

Continued from page 1
new Commonwealth, leaving the Commonwealth with great suffering
and angry leaders, and leaving the West with the uncertainty of the
Commonwealth’s nuclear stockpile.

“Southern areas of Asia, especially Iran and Turkey, will be of
special interest.” Ford said he thinks a close watch will need to be kept
on, “terrorism, hostage taking, laundering, and international drug trade.”
He also spoke of continuing conflict out of Africa and Latin America,

The new threat of the decade could prove to be within third and fourth
world countries. “Third and fourth world coups, accessability of
weapons, starvation, mass migration and refugees, and environmental
destruction,” will be the greatest threats coming from these under-devel-
oped nations,he said.

When asked about the Gulf War, Ford commented, “Oil is why we
went to war in the Gulf. Desert Storm proved one thing, we are good at
killing.” He felt that the war, Mecomipliaperl some things but obviously
left a lot of wounds.”

Ford did not view the state of our own country as being any better,
describing it as, “1000 points of dimness here at home.” He expressed
chagrin at how’ the Cold War, “has distorted our scientific capabilities

ot

Nicaragua

Continued from page |

effort with three consecutive $100 millioncampaigns. Working si-
multaneously through the Institute of John the 23rd in Managua,
the organization provides aid nationally through Nicaragua, reliev-
ing all poor, rural areas affected by the war.

A large partof the success of the organization, however, can be
attributed to the Mothers of Matagalpa, a group of women who
have lost children to the war and have since devoted themselves to
the transformation of Nicaragua into a nation that is “more just,
more human, more loving, and more believing. They have taken
the grief they felt over the loss of their children and transformed it
into a process of developing their land,” Callahan said.

Next to speak was Ketxu Amazua, an international coordina-
tor of the humanitarian aid program who has worked for over two
decades in Nicaragua and other countries such as Guatemala, El
Salvador, and Panama, overseeing the development and transfor-
mation of poor, urban areas. Amazua explained that the true
essence of the establishment is catalytic, helping people to help
themselves.

“Our projects are simply a means of empowering people to
make their own decisions and to take possession of their own lives,”
she Said. “Our goal is to help the poor with the material beginnings
that will enable them to develop their own projects.” These proj-
ects, Amazua continued, will ultimately lead to amore harmonious
existence among the Nicaraguans. “We seek the integrated devel-
opment of the community,” she said.

Amazua was followed by Esperanza Cruz de Cabrera, co-
founder of the Mothers of Matagalpa, an organization which cur-
rently boasts 600 mothers on the state level and 1,567 on the
regional level. For both Amazua and Cruz, the Christian faith has
been aconstant source of comfort and motivation. For Cruz and the
many mothers in her group, however, it is the memory of achild to
whom one’s work is dedicated. “We mothers are not politicians,”

she said, “‘but we would be forgetting them (the children who died I

FREE

2 ROLLS

35mm Film

Try this Exciting New Film!
“Its main forte is color

tion.

reproduc Rave Reviews
You can see from the

the difference Photo Magazines

between cherry
red and tomato red.”
Photographic Magazine

Now you
can try the
35mm film
Photographic
Magazine
calls the best
200 ASA print
film in the World!
To introduce you, we'll send you
two rolls Free. Fine grain, rich
color, wide exposure latitude —
perfect for everyday shots. Shoot
in bright or low light — indoors
or outdoors. And you can order
prints, slides, or both, from the
same roll! Try this remarkable
film today.

100% Satisfaction
Guaranteed

_—_— — = = = = oe oe com a

SEND ME 2 ROLLS FREE!

in the revolution) if we did not continue along the path that they | (] RUSH me two 20-exposure rolls of

forged.”

" your highly acclaimed film, one each at

200 ASA and 400 ASA. Enclosed is

| $2.00 for shipping. Limit: 2 rolls per

i household.

First ~

ZIP

Mail to: Seattle FilmWorks
Elliott Bay at Pier 89
P.O. Box 34056
98124-1056

#25334

©1992 Seattle FilmWorks. Free film offer does not include
- developing. Process SFW-XL™ at Seattle FilmWorks with
limited availability from other labs.“

|
|
I
I
I
1
I
I
Ciey I
|
I
I
|
l
I
I
a

Session I: May

sessions.

UNC-CH offers over 900 courses in over 40 disciplines. A typical course load

per session is 6 semester hours. —

Some evening and night courses and three-week short courses are offered.
Thirty spaces still available in three-week Summer School Study Abroad

programs. :

Approximate Cost per Session: Tuition and fees of about $115 plus $40 per
credit hour for NC resident undergraduate or $271 per credit hour for

_ nonresident undergraduate.

Be a Summer Tar Heel!

14-June 19, 1992,
Session II: June 25-July 31, 1992

Students from any college or university, graduates, teachers, and rising high
school seniors may apply as Visiting Summer Students for first, second or both

=

For details, please send me a catalog and application form:

Name

Street

City State Zip
Mail to:

Summer School, CB #3340, 200 Pettigrew Hall, The University: of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3340 -
Phone: (800) UNC1-123; Fax: (919) 962-2752.
(AA/EEO Institution) 03

