ee “
’ a Be oe)

td a

; THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1992

wn

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief.
“SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor
TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor

SEAN LIND-News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY -Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
CHRIS HOOD-Ass'‘t Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist
ALEX DANIEL- Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS-Ass‘t Production Manager

Che Babidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS-Advertising Manager
ANDY COOKE-Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager

Davidson Soccer —
Something To Be Proud Of

Yesterday the Davidson men’s soccer team advanced to the NCAA soccer
tournament’s “great eight” by getting past Coastal Carolina in a sudden death shootout.
For the second straight week, sophomore Alex Deegan provided the last minute heroics,
but the entire team deserves recognition for their incredible effort.

Quite simply, the team has shown the best of Davidson athletics. They have proven
that a small school can win on the national level. They have also shown it can be done
with true scholar-athletes, and without the benefit of a single scccer scholarship. Not
since the 1960’s and the days of “Lefty” Driesell has the Davidson sports fan had so much
to be excited about.

The secret of the team’s success has undoubtedly been its ability to play well as a
team. Through hard work and commitment, they have outplayed team’s with more talent,
but less heart. 7

The great majority of our players were not heavily recruited high school stars. Rob
Ukrop, the nation’s leading scorer and current front-runner for soccer’s Herrman award,
was told by some coaches that he wasn’t good enough to play on the Division evel. Matt
Spear and Craig Omli, the team’s other tri-captains, played successfully together in high
school, but weren’t heavily recruited either. The other key member of Davidson’s
stalwart defense, Cliff Castelloe, wasn’t recruited by anyone, including Davidson. He
walked on.

Four years ago, almost half of Coach Slagle’s players were Freshmen. These same
men now form the team’s foundation. Seniors Matt Spear, Cliff Castelloe, Craig Omli,
Preston Yarborough, Phelps Sprinkle, Andy Schwab, Mike Newton, and Lance Kinerk
have brought Davidson soccer to a level many never dreamed possible. Early in their
careers, they realized their potential as a team and have worked diligently to fulfill it.

While avoiding arrogance, the team has taken on highly ranked teams with
confidence and tenacity. Since the end of last season the team has been committed to this
season and its goal-of making the NCAA tournament. At times this year, especially after
tough, consecutive losses to Coastal Carolina and Furman, the team could have easily
given up on its goals. Instead of feeling sorry for itself, the team reeled off five straight
victories enroute to a Southern Conference Championship and a NCAA bid.

Their accomplishments have given the student body reason for excitement. The
team has provided a healthy boost to campus morale at a time in the semester when most
students are looking forward to break. Everyone can take pride in the team’s success,
because the players are just students like the rest of us. Unlike athletes at other schools,
these guys are treated off the field like anyone else.

Although the location has yet to be determined, the team will battle N.C. State next
Sunday for the right to play in the Final Four. In case you’ ve missed it, the Final Four
will be played here, at Davidson. A win next weekend could set-up the greatest spectacle
in Davidson sports history. If you are able, please get to the game on Sunday and support
the ‘Cats. '

So, thank you Davidson soccer. You have given us much to be proud of. Best of luck
next weekend — we’d still love to see one more home game.

A Note From The Team:

For all the soccer team, I want to express our gratitude for all of your support. We are
proud to represent you. Please continue your support next weekend. We can’t do it
without you.

Sincerely,

Matt Spear

Tri-Captain

Letters

NevBlalfem

" Distributed by Tribune Media Services

Hagemans Thank Community

We thank you all,

Ken, Sarah, and Emma Hageman

Editor's Note: The wife of mother of the Hageman family recently passed away. The
family own Davidson Screen Printers, Inc.

To the Davidson College Community,
” -~ Christine’s unexpected death was a severe blow to our family. It has left a very large
whole in our lives that seems impossible to fill. But with the help of all our friends and
neighbors, we have started the healing process and are trying very hard to get our lives back
to some sort of normal routine. :
Our frends at Davidson College have been very supportive. Your cardsand letters have
been comforting. You have offered to help us at home and with our business. You have
shown patience with us while we work to get our feet back on the ground. And most
important of all, you have showered us with your love. All these thngs have helped give
direction and hope to confusing and chaotic chapter of our lives.

Student Complains About Apathy

To the Editor,

Last Monday, three
Davidson Trustees from
Charlotte spoke to sudents in
the Union. Unfortunately,
only nine people attended.
The nine people were com-
prised of three staff mem-
bers, three SGA
representitives, and three stu-
dent leaders at the Union.
After coming specifically to
answer questions and listen
tocomplaints, they were only
able to address the concerns
of the few students in the
audience. They did not re-
ceive a fair representation of
concerns of the student body
when they asked specific
questions. Moreimportantly,
the poor tumout gave the im-
pression that the students
only complain about schcoi

_ policies and do not actively
seek the implementation of
change.

Many students might

complain that they were not
cognizant of the meeting.
However, there were many

flyers announcing the event. —

What appals me is that there
were more people at thelrish
Cue, the Phi Delt Football
get together, and the game
room, or whatever, than there
were meeting with the Trust-
ees:

If the student body con-
tinues to avoid opportuni-
ties to discuss issues with
the Trustees, the Trustees
will continue to implement
programs that are unfavor-
able to the student body, We
will no longer be able to use
the excuse of having little

- inputif we fail to utilize such

opportunities. Davidson
needs improvements such as
a néw Union, new track,
more minority recruitment,
and lower tuition. Students
have many concerns such as
the new alcohol policy that
were not expressed at this
meeting. It is up to the stu-
dents to express the impor-
tance of these issues such
that they can be addressed
by the Trustees. Otherwise,
the Trustees and administra-
tion. will implement differ-
ent priorities. When the
school passes unfavorable
directives which you failed
to address after being given
an opportunity, blame your-
self not.the administration.

Sincerely,
Greg Fisher

Comments

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson
College. Please address fanmail andcorrespondances to: he Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson,
North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are located on the third floor
of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do
not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of
Davidson College. .

i

To the Editor

Pat Robertson.:.Pat
Buchanan...Governor Kirk
Fordice—the new puppe-
teers of the Grand Old Party.
No longercan the GOP stand
behind the facade of charis-
matic Ronald Reagan, the
true colors of social intoler-
ance begin to surface... The
religious right, led by
Robertson’s tax-exempt
Christian Coalition, is at-
tempting to bestow Chris-
tian (without the Judeo) val-
ues in a government estab-
lished on separation of
church and state.
The attempt to blacken
Bill Clinton’ scharacter trans-

ee ee ee ee ee

lated into the exposure of the

on the State of the GOP

Republican Party’s “Mr.
Hyde”, the evil family val-
ues twin who sows the seeds
of intolerance and close-
mindedness. The Bushcam-
paign set out to defame Bill
Clinton rather than promote
George Bush. They felt that
the American people would
vote for Bush by default
rather than notice his dubi-
ous record as President.
Even Mr. Bush employed
this tactic by stepping out-
side the bounds of protocol
and calling his opponents
names.

If Rhodes Scholar Bill
Clintonisa“bozo” then what
is George Bush (besides
unemployed)?...humanitarian.

ee eee es es a te

Remember Los Angeles,
China, Haiti, Somalia? The
GOP’ scall for Christian val-
ues falls on deaf ears during
policy making.

Charles Bolick, a con-
servative who supported
Bush, observes, “George
Bush is bereft of a true moral
compass on civil rights is-
sues. I think his instincts are
to support civil rights bills
and those instincts are over-
ridden on no principled ba-
sis but on political consider-
ations.” Another Bush sup-
porter, Clint Bollick, stated
“The only thing I hate to see
is our Constitution trampled

See "GOP" on page 11
