6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1992

NEWS.

Zumwalt Changes
Directions with
Newest Novel

By Russ Tarver

Associate Professor of Anthropology Dr. Rosemary Zumwalt re-
cently published her third book, Wealth and Rebellion: Elsie Clews
Parsons, Anthropologist and Folklorist. The book details the life of
early twentieth century sociologist Elsie Clews Parsons.

After her first two books, American Folklore Scholarship: a Dia-
logue of Dissent published in 1988 and The Enigma of Arnold van
Gennep (1873-1957) also published in 1988, Zumwalt was ready for a
change of direction. “I had decided that I wasn’t going to do another
book on the history of folklore scholarships, since I had already written
two. I decided to do something which would enable me to do some field
work.”

A good friend and colleague of Zumwalt, Dr. Toger Abrams, a
professor at the University of Pennsylvania, provided the majority of
Zumwalt’s inspiration. “He suggested to me that the time was right for
someone to work on [a book about] Elsie Clews Parsons.”

Zumwalt undertook an immense amount of research while writing
this biography. While researching, Zumwalt discovered that Parsons ~
was far more socially significant than expected. “I [originally] thought
I would be writing a book on Parsons as a folklorist and anthropologist
.. As it turned out, her papers (housed at the American Philosophical
Society in Philadelphia) were incredibly rich and diverse. .. She had
letters from phenomenally important people. I found that I couldn’ t limit
myself to one aspect of her life and it became a much larger project than
I anticipated.”

“She had very wide webs in terms of her interest and. social
connections,” says Zumwalt. Parsons’ social circle included such gentry
as President Taft and Theordore Roosevelt. “The people that knew
Parsons wanted to discourage her from going intoanthropology bec ause
they thought her writings in social psychology, feminism and social
convention were more important.”

Not only were Parsons’ vast explorations and writings important,
but her immense wealth enabled her to make generdus contributions
towards research and educational advancement. “Everybody knew that
she was very generous with her money in terms of supporting scholarly
societies,” says Zumwalt. However, “prior to recent research on Par-

fieds

Classi

Earn Free Spring Break Trips & $2500 Selling Spring Break
Packages To Bahamas, Mexico, Jamaica, Florida! Best Trips & Prices!
1-800-678-6386

Spring Break '93

Panama City Beach, Horida

Sales Repre sntative Needed to Work
with the #1 Spring Break ‘Team
TRAVEL ASSOCIATES AND LOOKING FOR STUDENT GROUPS TO SPONSOR US ON
POUR EXCEL CAMPUS. FAST, EASY, BIG MONBY.
sa oat Aue on th CALL 800-592-2121 EXT. 309.
S IM CONDON a
MIRACLE BEACH OR He
HOLIDAY INN, PIER 99 Help Wanted GREEKS & CLUBS

Baby-sitter needed for two girls.
Flexible Hours. Non-Smoking.

Earn Top Commission and Free

For Inf naa “all Julic Driving Preferred. Experience With has A COOL
; Children. Call Sandy. 000
1-800-558-3002
, | (704) 528-6039 IN JUST ONE WEEK!
$$$$, FREE TRAVEL AND a PLUS $1000 FOR THE
RESUME EXPERIENCE! ! -HORSES BOARDED MEMBER WHO CALLS!
Individuals and Student Excellent facilities No obligation. No cost.
seer mee tees || near lake campus, ‘ull stall You also get a FREE
leader. Inter-Campus Programs care. $190 per month. HEADPHONE RADIO
1-800-327-6013. just for calling
892-0247 1-309-932-0528, Ext. 65

Columba et

— QUINDOORS
EXC afi Lia

10% off Chinchilla and Fleece with
Davidson ID through Nov. 16
SIERRA

e
(owe . |W DESIENS

Shops on the Green: Exit 28, Past McDonald's and the Comfort Inn.

rN

sons, much of what was emphasized was her’ wealth. 1 think this ;
emphasis was a disservice to her because she was gifted in intellect and
spirit as well. Those gifts are, in many ways, more important than her
wealth.”

Despite her intense interest in the subject matter, Zumwalt’s pri-
mary motivation leading to her rapid completion of the book (she began
her research in 1988 and the book was published in 1992) came from the
ever-increasing threat of competition. “In the course of my research,
many other people began working on Parsons. I was trying to finish my
book before everybody else came out with theirs. There was a temen-
dous amount of pressure. I was running to keep ahead of everybody
else.”

Zumwalt explains that she did much of her research in the American
Phiosophical Society Library in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. “In addi-
tion, I had to follow the trail of Parsons’ letters.” Zumwalt traveled all
over the country tracing Parsons’ many letters. The majority were found
at the University of California at Berkeley and the Rye Historical Society
in Rye, New York, once one of Parsons’ residences.

Zumwalt describes a trip to Parsons’ New York home, “In her attic
there were boxes of letters which had been unopened since she had
opened them. We weren’t able to even skim the surface of what was
there.”

Perhaps the most satisfying result of Zumwalt’s endeavor was
Parsons’ granddaughter’s response to the biography upon its publica-
tion. “She wrote saying she’d read the book and that it was exciting to
read what I had written. She was able to peice together things that she
knew, but hadn't known how they fit in. They [Parsons’ family
members] are able to read this and be able to bring to bear their own
personal knowledge. She [Parsons’ granddaughter] found it very inter-
esting.” : :

With a Ph. D. in cultural anthropology, Zumwalt has been an
anthropology professor at Davidson since 1983. She is currently
finishing yet another sociological undertaking, “My husband and I are
working on a book on Jewish-Spanish magic and superstition. We
interviewed people in Greece, Yougoslavia, Turkey and Israel.” She is
unsure about future projects; however, she fears it will be another

_intellecutal biography.

Organizational meeting
Union Conference Room
November 5, 6:30p.m.

Don't need to be certified - call Tom Hunter
for more information at 896-8291

Pizza Engineers

892-9046

12" Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

$4.99

16" Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

$6.99

18" Pizza

w/ Two Toppings

$8.99

Free Delivery

