THE DAVIDSONIAN ‘SPORTS MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1992 15
. ~ = =
; ; Wt This is Richard | HAS MODERN LIVING Goryou Dow?
Swimmers and Divers % iS ee coe? Elokeh lin nonnte
= ) ink Richa ye cle wee love 9 a
Prepare to Host Terry, am Now) | saps eave teat

Southern States Meet

By Chris Hood

Despite heing swept by UNC-
Wilmington’s swimming and div-
ing Squads at home on January 26,
Davidson head coach Ron Mor-
row was satisfied with the ‘Cats
performances.

“Our teams continued their out-
standing swimming and diving,”
he explained, noting that many
‘Cats turned in personal best times
and scores. Hayler Osborn, who
topped the 100-yard breaststroke
school record he established a day
earlier, exemplified this progres-
sion.

Davidson was.to return to ac-
tion. this Saturday morning at

Cannon PoolagainstFloridaA&M.
but the Rattlers chose not to make
the trek to face the ‘Cats.

This weekend, Davidson hosts
the Southern States Swimming and
Diving Championships. The
twelve schools scheduled to attend
comprise what Morrow calls an
“extremely competitive field.”

“We have been tapering to-
wards the big meet, and we hope to
be good hosts as well as competi-
tive,” Morrow continued.

He also asked that anyone in-
terested in volunteering to help
keep track of times this weekend
call him at -2812.for more infor-
mation.

Otrok, Richardson Excel
at Clemson Meet

By Peter Hurtado

Two weeks of men’s indoor
track and field action was high-
lighted by the spirited running of
thé squad’s iwo seniors: at the
US Air Invitational last weekend at
ETSU and this weekend at ‘the
Clemson Invitational.

Chris Otrokand co-captain Ted
Richardson worked together in the
-3000m-at Clemson this weekend
to post spectacular times. Otrok
(8:55.5) becomes Davidson’s 4th

‘best vever/-in 'the3000m, : while.
Richardson, who already holds the:

2nd best 3000m in Davidson his-
tory, was a tick behind at 8:55.8.
Richardson raced to a 15:55.5
clocking in the 5000m runatETSU,
and he has now run two out of the

‘ fastest four indoor 5000m runs ever

bya Davidson athlete: Chris Otrok
followed suit, finishing the 3000m
run in a fast 9:10.9. Both seniors
are having outstanding seasonsand
are creating high expectations for
each other this spring. —

At the Lynchburg Invitational
on Jan. 25, the Davidson squad
turned in several fine perform-
ances. DJ Ruggles posted fine ef-
forts in the long and triple jumps,

highlighted by a ua) Jump of 20'
UA titi ut
The tiididistaiiee crew of John

Alsobrook and Joe Beach had a
busy day, having promising per-
formances in the 400m for Beach
(54.6) and in the 600 yards for

b accepting Resvent | the
Advisor applications | 2'5°
fy the 492-45 I

Presideut , but rtay (

Cx whet a
Sh , the Jews ave A

ail live woman's yore
Fall fener DATE clicks
oap cleans beter in

YouR RESUNE' A Lire CACKING? po {QouAIT BUA (HUTET BoTWHEND none?

Youkrow tel € OO
+o Bape’ Louies SIG 42

else can you
Ado? ( 4

ical

|r Control
YOUR FUTURE

Pick-up ey ae $:30-L:00 ttle Reser ie ice. Void where pobkbitel,

THEN te RA JOS 1S For Yue

Cyes, yo v\)

Ris get Ve YOOM \ wate fov the y ear on double, |
or cde YOOMS “ana $3800 annual SHpend
Oo Ahet means CHIAPET Money), and ; join O
‘diverse ekads of exciting Men and women
who Maki e exeuere: resi call (Fe oy ttle
bt easier. tts , 4's gveat, and Ps Sexy.
rf youve Qavisin sow ov Senior, apply

OW! (derdline: Feb, Nd

( jete*)

Alsobrook (1:25.9).

Grubb

Continued from page 1

man pushers to the Vikings as a backup placekicker. Not really, but my

point is that Walker should stick to golf in the off-season and I have
~ always wanted to use Rolf Benerschke’s name in a column.
Figure Skating: For my money I’d rather watch the biathlon. It might
be worth your while to check outa little bit of the coverage to catch
Katarina Witt’s commentary.
Skiing: The men’s downhill promised to be thie most exciting in recent
history due to the tough course which caused a record number of skiers
to crash during training. This could potentially be as much fun as a
NASCAR race.
Ski Jumping: | thought that they stopped this sport after the guy on the
Wide World of Sports opening sequence crashed.

Wrestling

Continued from pagel3

The team could have placed even higher except for a neck injury to
Giorgio Hiatt two days before the tournament. “Giorgio’s points were
" the difference between fourth place and second place,” said Oddo.

Knowles’s match against Kevin McSherry of Longwood was one of
the highlights of the tournament for Davidson. Knowles allowed McSh-
erry to have all five of his points in the 9-5 victory. “This was a huge win
against a tough opponent,” said Oddo.

G.A. McClung also impressed Oddo with a tenacious comeback.
McClung’s Washington and Lee opponent forced him to take an injury

time-out when a body slam caused McClung to black out. McClung:

recovered and went on to win the match 8-5.

“G.A. just beat the tar out of the guy after the time-out,” said Oddo,

Davidson wrestled Georgia State on Saturday and Eastern Illinois
and the University of Tennessee at Chatanooga on Sunday. Results were
unavailable at press time.

HF You Want To Know What
I's Like 10 Order From Que
Competition, Stare At This
Empty Plate For 45 Minutes.

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices may vary. Customer -
pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery
drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.

{| ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Don't wait on a slow delivery from those other guys,-call Domino's Pizza®
for a hot. fresh pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less.

NOBODY
_"

896-8007 Shops on the Green
4pm-12am Mon.-Thurs. 1lam-lam Fri. & Sat. 12pm-12am Sun.

Delvry erees ited fo pacers bats Gila: ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

MONDAY
~ MAD NESS February Late Night Special
Order your favorite. - d ase Mile bea
large P izza “After 10pm Only

for the price of a small.

Offer expires
Feb.16,1992

areas limited to ensure safe driving. Our pays sales tax where applicable.
drivers carry less than $20.00. Our drivers are not penalized for ate

Cash value /a0* i ©1991 Domino's Pizza, Inc.

Vila paricpating stores only. Not alld with any other, Prices may vary. Customer
Delivery areas limited to ensure safe driving, Our

Cash value ‘oe wi

oe rae

