THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINION Sone, SEPTEMBER 14, 1992 2

‘Frampton Rules;

The J.Crew Lifestyle, Or Not

_ Yellow leaves crush under-
neath my brown Nubuck Wing
Tips. The wind blows, cool and
crisp, through my short, sandy
blonde hair. My ribbed cotton v-
neck keeps the cold out, while my
ivory ‘chinos blow lightly in the
wind. In the distance, my girl-
friend, her long light brown hair
hanging over hershoulders, smiles
teasingly as she waits for me. My
life is comfortable.

This is the J.Crew lifestyle,
otherwise known as every college
student’s dream. My life revolves
around my wardrobe, and why not?
I never work, I’m obviously
wealthy, young and affluent if you
prefer. Some of my friends have
started to have children, but not
me. Essentially my life consists of
lazy fall days walking the streets of
Boston or lounging around my
summer homie along the New En-
gland coast. I may travel to the
mountains of Vermont during the
winter months, but even then I
wear my trusty J.Crew t-shirt and
roll neck sweater underneath my
hunter orange four-in-one jacket.

I may dabble in politics, but
only over a light lunch, after all,
every one of my friends is voting
for Clinton; I’ll do the same. Be-
ing a moderate means never losing
control. Imay have smoked a little
weed, butthereally crazy moments
for me involve wearing a pair of
gas station print broadcloth boxers
around thé summer home and cud-
dling with my girlfriend. Usually,
a cup of hot chocolate rounds the
situation off perfectly. I justenjoy
those peaceful times.

My girlfriend will sometimes

get a little bit more out of control.
She likes to throw on a homepsun
sweater and pick apples out of the
tree in the backyard, and just pile
them into a large wooden basket.
if she happens to get into the city,
the coffee shops had best beware.
She’ll throw on a pair of Oatmeal

Heather leggings, a cotton mini-
skirt, anda french cuff shirt, tied in
anot above her waist, and go shop-
ping. Ifa guy is lucky, she’ll flash
him one of those let’s play smiles

Chris
Frampton

and then tum away quickly and

‘teasingly. She may evenrunaway,
giggling outloud, and bonding with .

the other women on the street who
admire her free spirit.

It’s really quite a life. Won’t
you join us? Our lifestyle cata-
logue comes out every week, and
the start up fee is just enough to
cover a couple pairs of chinos, a
roll neck sweater, and short, natu-
ral haircut. © “"”

The purpose of this long
winded introduction is to make a
point. By directly marketing col-
lege age students, J.Crew makes
what the trustees and whoever else
subscribes to their new found mor-
alism would’call an outrageous
assumption. They actually assume
we can choose our own lifestyle.

At some point in the last few
years I became an adult. I can’t
remember exactly when it was.
Some

int before freshman year I

became responsible for my actions.
I could no longer simply pass the
blame on to my parents or expect
them to keep me out of trouble. In
return I was now able to do what-
ever the hell I wanted. Of course,
if I messed up, I paid the price.
Now someone has decided that

Ihadn’t become an adult, that am.

not responsible enough to make
my own decisions. Unfortunately,
it wasn’t the administration. (I
know they’re really fun to rag on,
but it just isn’t their fault.) Yes,

’ their recent changes of the alcohol
' policy did bring the subject tolight,

but they must obey the law. (Al-
though, I don’t remember anyone
deputizing the whole lot of them.)
North Carolina law states that
people under the age of twenty-
one can not drink. Why?

‘Beats me. Only about half of
the high school graduates in the
United States go on to college.
Those who do not continue their
formal education do not have the
luxury of avoiding the real world.
They must pay taxes, make a liv-
ing, and, in many cases, support
full families. Yet, they can’t drink
alcohol?

So what can be done about it?

Nothing, but I am bitching any-

way. Itis truly strange that a per-
son who is expected to behave like
an adult is treated like a child. I
guess I’ ll have to keep my personal
decisions in the arena of clothing.
(P.S. I know that this argu-
ment sounds like a cliche, and it
probably is, but their is some sense
in it. Oh, by the way. Did you
know that the teachers used tocome
down to the court to‘hang out with
the students. Given that may have
been about five years ago, but that
sounds really neat. Can that begin
to happen again? It seems to me
the students and teachers could
only get closer if they were al-
lowed to socialize wi eachother.)
Bye.

Krenzer

Continued from page 7

program. So to imply that I have personally devised a devious ploy to
extract monies from Davidson College students for my personal benefit
is certainly ludicrous.

Most colleges or universties (Duke, UNC, State) charge a nominal
team entry fee. The logic behind Davidson’s team entry fee is twofold:

1. It helps offset the overall cost of the intramural program (i.e.
equipment, official T-shirts) .

2. It was thought it-would deter forfeits.

It may also surprise Mr. Frampton that students participate in the
intramural program for sheer pleasure and competition that the program
provides. As a matter of fact, nearly one-half of this year’s fall
participants are upper-classmen who have already met their physical
education team credit.

No doubt about it, Davidson is a very expensive school to attend.
And students do have a legitimate right to question how their money is

being spent. What I do question is the right of students to take cheap shots ©

and call it journalism.

If afaculty, staff member or student has a uration or concern about
Davidson College’s intramural program either Carla Davis, this year’s
intramural president, or I are available to answer them. All you need to
do is call or come by.

Sincerely,
Judy Krenzer

-Norwood

Continued from page 8

Blacks remained for the most part uneducated and with few rights. On
the surface, minority affairs seem to be handled well at Davidson.
Brenda Tapia has done a wonderful job with the Love of Learning
program during the summer, but if you talk with African-American
students an overwhelming majority will tell you that they are not happy

at Davidson. That’s where Malcolm X comesin. By the definition above, .

tokenism is practiced at Davidson College. The College appears to be
answering the problems of African-American uae when in all
actuality they are not.

First, Davidson has less than 100 African-Americans out tof approxi-
mately 1600. That means that African-American students make up about
6% of the student body. Social-life for these students is limited because
for the most part Patterson Court doesn’t appeal to them. Second, The
College has a small number of African-American professors, and even
a smaller number of African-American related courses. For a school that
claims to be striving for cultural diversity this is ridiculous.

The answer I usually receive to these complaints is that most African-
American students and professors do not mect Davidson standards.
Well, I think it is about time we re-evaluate Davidson standards. The
admissions office always seems to find a way to admit legacies and
children of major contributors who do not meet these standards, so I’m
sure the College can find a way to admit more African-Amcericans.
Davidson, open your eyes and see the problems around campus.

Before I go, let me Icave with one thought. In fifteen years whites in
America will be the minority. Do you think the new majority will forget
all the times we didn’t listen?

Levering

Continued from page 8

tions to grow and the fact that Davidson’s student body has nearly
doubled since the 1950s, I believe that the college should commit itself
publicly never to exceed 1600 students.

To continue Davidson’s traditions, we must contain these and
other threats, including intolerance in all its forms. More positively, we
must maintain a living memory of the dedicated teachers and adminis-
trators—and of the inquiring students—who have gone before us, and
take pride in following in their footsteps. Above all, we must remember
that every student who comes here has the potential to become a fully
developed person who can make a significant contribution to human
betterment. Davidson has long experience in helping students to move
forward along this path.

Dr. Ralph Levering is an Associate Professor of History at Davidson

Tarver

Continued from page 7 :
reasonable priority over events occuring outside the school but do not
directly affect the majority of the people on campus.

.: Sincerely,
Russ Tarver ‘96

