14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

S P ORT & MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 21, 1992

Rugby Shows Improvement
in Grueling Opening Loss

By Dack Stackhouse

The Wildcats’ season opener
against the Asheville Men’s team
proved to be'a grueling match in
which the Davidson team had a
great chance to analyze its strengths
and weaknesses. =

Despite-_losing tothe much
more experienced Asheville team,
the Wildcats showed remarkable
improvement since last season.
Considering that Asheville is prob-
ably the best team Davidson will
face, the Wildcats’ performance
only foreshadows victories in fu-
ture competitions against other
college teams.

The backfield, made up largely
of rookies, played extremely well.
As a unit their tackling and han-
dling skills have increased tremen-
dously. Edwin Thomas, as always,
played an aggressive match and
stood out as one of the Wildcats’
hardest hitters. Geoffrey M°Allen,
as well as newcomers Matt Dor-
mer and Bob Yarbrough, also gave
the Asheville men some bruises.

Another new player, Tag
Kleiner, scored Davidson’s only
try for. the day. It came late in the
match and was almost repeated by
the speedy John Walsh, but the
Asheville team did not leave him
the space he needed to get his
wheels moving and score.

Tim Dancy turned in a stellar
performance at fullback, playing
and tackling better than ever after
his year abroad. Another promis-
ing rookie, Henry Neale, was un-
able to show off his speed due to an
injury suffered shortly after he be-

gan to play.

However, he is fine and will
be a valuable weapon in the
Davidson backfield. In the back,
Chris Ross and Mike Savona
played very well at scrum half,
both giving and receiving some
hard hits due to the vulnerability of
the position. This year’s backfield
is tackling and playing better than
ever. With its speed and skill, the
team should emerge as a high-
scoring powerhouse in Division II
tugby.

Up front, the pack also played
a tough game. Having only three
new players, the pack played pretty
much as expected. Scott Tumer,
who had yet to meet his match in
quickness at hooking, finally did.
However, no one can match the
intensity with which he plays and
tackles.

Menacing Mike Kessler and
Wyatt Lilly turned in great perfor-
mances at prop, especially since
they had never played that position
before. Filling out the scrum in the
second row and flanker positions
were Darren Moore, Patrick
Malcor, and David Rozelle. These
three newcomers are strong, ag-
gressive, and encouraging to the
future of the Davidson scrum. With
their playing, the scrum should
become even more of a dominat-
ing force in Division II rugby.

‘The old stand-bys, Tait Lane,
Jim M‘Carney, and Dave Harding
also played great rugby and made
their presence well-known to the
Asheville men. The eight man po-
sition was played by Dack

Honor

Continued from page 13

tors who will investigate further. If a student admits guilt to a charge,
Dean Terry may handle the sanctioning himself (the judiciary committee
is the “Dean Terry” for Code of Responsibility cases) unless either he or
the student wishes for the sanctioning to be deferred to the judgment of
the Honor Council.

If the student does not admit the charge, the Student Solicitors will
investigate the case to determine whether enough evidence and doubt
exist to merit a trial. If they determine thata trial should take place, they
contact the Secretary of the Honor Council, Catherine Milligan, to set up
a date and time. In the meantime, the defense advisors, David Lindsay
and Arthur Morehead, prepare a case for the defendant.

An honor trial is not like a trial in the U.S. court system; it is not
meant to be, just as the Honor Code is not meant to be a condensed U.S.

~ Constitution, Each side ina trial seeks to find the truth, plain and simple.
There are no tricks, no loopholes. The Solicitors present the evidence
against a defendant that could lead one to the conclusion that a violation
has been committed. The defense's job and duty is to seek the truth by
presenting all the possible evidence that can lead one to have doubt that
a violation occurred, and that shows, therefore, that the accused is indeed
innocent.

The Secretary of the Honor Council goes about setting up the trial.
Having contacted the Chairman to confirm a date that is agreeable forall,
the Secretary selects and contacts the panel members for that trial. The

_ Chairman and Secretary must be part of every trial unless they are
extremely tied to the case or to the defendant. The panel for each trial
consists of three seniors, one being the Chairman, two juniors, and one
sophomore. The Secretary, who does sit in at all phases of the trial
process, does not vote, and is therefore not considered part of the panel.

The Secretary selects the panel, trying to achieve a balance of
gender, experience, and social affiliation (no panel is too heavily loaded
with one sex, members of great experience or inexperience, or members
of the same eating house); and she will prepare the meeting place (Phi
Hall, for example) and the taping equipment. All trials are (audio) taped
so that the tapes may be used as an aid in composing the written record
(the “digest”) and as evidence in an appeal.

note:. In an egregious error, Vernelle Trim was not included in last
week’s list of the junior:members of the Honor Council.

Stackhouse.

All in all, the scrum played an
excellent game. Of the college
teams in North Carolina,
Davidson’s scrum has always been
one of the very best. With the
present line up and some work on
rucking and mauling, the Davidson
scrum will prove to be a tertor to
the Wildcats’ future opponents.

The Wildcats’ next game is at
1:00 on Saturday, September 26th,
atthe Upper IMAC fields. Playing
Western Carolina in its first divi-
sion game, Davidson is looking
forward to a start at winning the
Division II title this fall. Since it
will be Parents’ Weekend, bring
your parents to the game. Rugby is
a thrilling game to watch, and you
and your parents are sure to enjoy
yourselves.

Inthe meantime, the Davidson
team would like to increase the
number of players on the team. If
you are interested in playing (Re-
member, experience is NOT nec-
essary), please call Dack at x-6320,
or just come to practice at the Up~
per IMAC fields on Tuesday and
Thursday at 4:00.

Women's Soccer
Thrashes Liberty, Falls
to Duke and Maryland

By Jen Lake

In what was probably the
roughest week of its season, with
games against Maryland and 14th-
ranked Duke, the Davidson
women’s soccer team got the
chance_to gauge how it stands in
comparison to top Division I teams.

The scores of the Maryland
and Duke games (6-0 and 6-1, re-
spectively) were not really indica-
tive of how the team fared. In each
game, the Wildcats were able to
compete evenly fora half, and faced
just a one-goal deficit at halftime.
Both the Terrapins and Blue Dev-
ils, though, managed to score five
more goals in the second half. .

“T was pleased to see we could
play with [Maryland] for the first
45 minutes, but eventually their
strength, speed and depth wore us
down,” Davidson coach Kevin
Hundley commented, “Then Duke
came out on Wednesday even
stronger. We spent most of the first
half on defense and we were fortu-
nate it wasn’t worse at halftime.”

The ‘@ats dug their heels in

and kept at Duke, and were re-
warded with a second-half goal,
the first of the season not scored by
a freshman. The ball was passed
down the line to outside halfback
Ellen Sprinkle, who crossed the
ball into the center to Sally Gra-
ham, Graham, with her back to the
goal, tapped the ball back to Susan
Taylor, who netted the ball with a
left-footed shot justunder the cross-
bar.

Before the losses to the two
ACC teams, the Wildcats began
the week on a high with a 4-0
victory over Liberty inLynchburg,
Va. As in the season-opening win
over Queens, freshmen dominated
the scoring. Claudia Lombard
scored twice, and Launa Hankins
and Heather Wineberg also scored.
The team dominated for the entire
90 minutes against an improved
Liberty team. All of the scoring
occurred in the first 35 minutes of
the game, allowing Hundley toplay
people in different positions and
try various combinations.

Pizza Engineers

92-9046

132"

Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

$4.99

16"

Pizza
w/ Two ‘Toppings

< 96.99

18 vy

Pizza
w/ Two Toppings

$8.99

