THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, AUGUST 31, 1992

Medical Center.
‘The University of Mi-

nomics, English, mathematics or
physics, economists at Cornell

Davidson Habitat for Humanity
Opens Thrift Store on Main Street

Barbie Ander- ae
son, the store’s general * ™
manager, thoughtof the j= .,

very interested in work-

Student Beaten To Death ing thing,” Ruiz said. By Katherine Cooke months later, the store was open. _ glasses to. board games to sofas
MIAMI (CPS) - Police have ar- Nguyen’ s father, aphy- If theonly thing you think The location also houses and chairs. Donations have been
rested eight men in connection  sician, left Vietnam in 1980 and | about when you think of Main the first offices of the organiza- so plentiful that they have had to
with the death of a Vietnamese brought his family to the United | street is gnomes, it’s time to think . tion, and it is hoped that this will use some warchouse space near
pre-med student who was chased, A States, where they cited in Cora again. On August 8, a the college warehouse to
beaten and kicked by amobafter Springs. _ : new dimension was store larger items. Do-
‘he objected to slurs about his na- : ) ° added when Davidson’s ElCehtl CO nations are accepted at
tionality. Aid Affects Graduate Rates | chapter of Habitat for E 7 . the store, or arrange-
LayenPhan Nguyen, 19, ITHACA, N.Y. (CPS)=Fellow-] tumanity opened a % 4 ments can be made to

‘went into acoma after receiving ships or research assistants offer | thrift store in the space. “=~. GAO men have larger items picked
repeated blows to his head and the fastest and surest way tO} formerly occupied by “Oe HABITAT ox HUMANITY ‘ups =<
died Aug. 17. atBrowardGeneral ceive a doctoral degree in eco- | Anna's Antiques. ee oi Anderson is

‘4 ww

3

ing with Davidson stu-

Come And Get Involved!

ami studentattended a party Aug. University said. dents, both as customers
15 in Coral Springs, north of Mi- Having a fellowship. Of! idea for the store after - and as volunteers, They
ami. According to witnesses, being aresearch assistantencour- visiting similar estab- need people to work both
words were exchanged after ages graduate students ieee jishments in Western in the store and in the
someone made a slur about their Ph.D. programs more than | North Carolina. Upon fon warehouse, and can also
Nguyen’s nationality, and the al- if they were funded by teaching learning about their successes in make it easier for people to get _use people to pick up and deliver
tercation moved outside to the _assistantships, tuition waivers or raising money for the building of information about volunteering merchandise. The store always
grounds of the apartment com- were self-supporting, saidRonald | more homes, Anderson wanted to with building houses. Founded in accepts donations of any usable
plex. As many as 15 youngmen Ehrenberg, a professor at try it in Davidson. The revenue 1988,Davidson’schapterofHabi- items. If you are interested in
‘may have taken part in the ania Comell's School of Industrial and _ generated by the store will be in- _ tat has built nine houses, and has_ volunteering your time to the
on Nguyen, _ Labor Relations. valuable, Anderson says, because justbrokengroundonnumberten. _ store, call Ms. Anderson at 896-
“The attack i is believed The report also con-| in asmallcommunity, itisdifficult Itishoped that the money raisedin 8822. And the next time you take
to have been racially motivated cludes thattherecouldbeafuture | 10 find the continued financial re- the gencral store will enable this _astroll down Main Street, drop in!
due to the victim’s Oriental na- shortage of professors because | sources necessary to build more number to continue growing. You may find something unique °
tionality,” a police report said. American college graduates af | houses, She submitted a proposal The store is chock fullof and useful for your room, and you
Eightmenhavebeenar- _ less likely toearndoctoratesnoWw | to the board on June third, and two bargains, ranging from wine will besupporting aworthy cause.
rested on second-degree murder than 20 years ago, This trend is
charges. Prosecutors also will occurring in part because of the
consider pursuing hate crime _ increasing time it takes to eam a T h D : d. ; O 1 1 ]
shonges; said Conchita Ruiz, die’ PhD, which ros foun a head € PAVIASONIAN UT ganizationa
tn a, oti relations at the _ time nationally in all disciplines. :
rersity of Miami. Ca in 1968 to 6.9 years M ‘ . 7:30 B S R
r a Sere eee eeting--/: ig screen Koom

1992-1993 Joseph Henry and John
Macdonald Wearn Lecture Series

ROBERT COLES

Harvard University

"The Spirtual and Moral Life of Children"

Food and
Will Be

The Davidson Gardem
Club’s Ammual Sale
Will Be Held Saturday,
September 12 9AM-12_
Noon On The Davidson |
Village Green. Plants,

ffered... Come

ic Treasures

Thursday, September 4th 4 P.M. Early. Rain Date Sept. 19

Attention Medical Humanities and Pre-Medical
_ Students: There will be an important organizational
meeting for "old" and "new" students at 4:30 p.m. on
August 31 in the Morrisson Room. Please try to attend.
Refreshments will be served. Freshmen welcome.

E fS EASTERN FEDERAL THEATRES |
$3. 75 ALL SHOWS BEGINNING BEFORE 6PM

"Who and What is Robert Coles? Humorist, political

activist, psychiatrist, minstrel, wandering storyteller,

mystic, wise man, poet, dissenter, and yes, I'll use the
~ word, secular saint."

-Andrew Greeley rou ATT came 77 EXIT2B CORNELIUS
Chicago Tribune | UNFORGIVEN g cE

3:05, 5:05,
7:05, 9:05

Sponsored by Committee of
Public Lectures

Ve egas

oncymoon 7
PG13) 3:15, 5:15, 7215, 9:15

