THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 23, 1992

11

Trade Licks?

By David Smyth

Asa freshly enrolled studentat
W.P. Grier Junior High School I
explored my new surroundings
with some trepidation. Hardly used
to the idiosyncrasies of Gastonia,
North Carolina, my senses were
wired and seemed perfectly attuned
to everything going on around me.
Friends from respective elemen-
tary schools greeted each other with
all manner of youthful enthusiasm
and appeared to be genuinely ex-
cited to be back wearing their para-
chute pants and Black Sabbath T-
shirts. I didn’t exactly share their
ardor. Since I didn’t yet know
anyone at Grier except my older
stepbrother [I'd gotten in a fight
with him that morning, but I can’t
remember why for the life of me.]
I thought I'd venture to my home-
room class and do whatever was
required of me. there.

At which point I meta big kid
named Billy Payne. Billy intro-
duced me to a game whose formal
title, had it one, would have been
Tradin’ Licks. The game’s insti-

gator at any given moment would
begin the action by asking a smaller
but willing victim, “Trade licks?”
Then the two knights would calcu-
late, based on relative size, what
exactly would bea fair distribution
of blows tothe other’s shoulder. In
my case, on that-first day of sev-
enth grade I was allowed two shots
at Billy’s arm while he could only
pound me once. I still wound up on
the short end of the stick. I think
Billy had played before. I never
played again. He was really big for
seventh grade.

Upon rereading Sir Gawain and
the Green Knight (by, appropri-
ately enough, the Gawain poet)
last semester Ilearned some things
about Billy Payné and his favorite
game that hardly expected to glean

from a senior English colloquium.
I now know that the lick traders at
Grier were not just poorly edu-
cated mill town residents with in-
feriority complexes. ‘These people
were actually Medieval English °
scholars who were just ‘interested
in recreating the adventures of their
favorite hero, Sir Gawain. I mean,
this is the greatest lick-tradin’ tale
of them all! Just straight one-for-
one pounding, a traditionalist’ s
trade.

For those utifsiniliar with the
Gawain poet’s epic work it goes
something like this: A green guy
rolls into town and challenges the
king’s court to a big duel. Arthur
won’ trise to the occasion, Gawain
has to to save some semblance of
honor for the whole place and the
sparks go a-flyin’. Basically,
Gawain gets a pretty good shot in
with his axe and knocks the chal-
lenger’s emerald head right the
hell off his shoulders. But the
over-zealous competitorruns away
anyway and Gawain has to.wait a
year to recieve his in turn. But he
perseveres and he eventually does
not get his head lopped off in retri-
bution. I don’t think I would have
held to my end of the bargain had
I knocked off Billy’s head only to
have him stand up and say he was
ready for his go.

If you have gained any real
insight into nature of humanity
from this little story I am truly

- sorry. Ihope only to tell youpeople

how cool I thought this was and
make you realize that Medeival
literature applies to dumbass

_twelve-year-oldsasmuchasitdoes
to doctorate-laden professors. And
I’ve been insanely jealous of. -

Davids Scott and Thompson get-
ting their names in big print in The
Davidsonian.

"Don't Let Another _
Good Thing Pass You By."

I couldn’t help but to think on
February, and what the month
meantto different individuals. For
some, February wasa loving month
full of balloons, flowers, soupy
cards, and enough Valentine’s
candy to put anyone on_a diet.
Seeing as I don’t have a sweet-
heart, Valentine’s Day meant very
little to me. And since Dasvidson
students didn’t get President’s Day
off (how many people besides
governmentofficials do anyway) I
didn’t spend lots of time thinking
of how much money | could save
during Presiden’s Day Sales. But
something about February did set
me in an unusual thinking mode.
Not only is February Black His-
tory Month, but February is also
the anniversary of Malcom X’ sas-

The section about Black History
Month. in the Davidsonian made
me chuckle. It was funny that we
highlighted other school’s Black

History month celebration and not
Davidson’s. Besides a movie, the
acapella Badget Sisters, and some
Solidarity events we really didn’t
do much. Overlooking various
cultural and ethnic holidays hap-
pens at Davidson so often that itno
longer disturbs me. For example,
while much of the U.S. celebrated
the Dr. Martin Luther King’s Na-
tional Holiday, I can’t attest to
anyone here (Davidson) even men-
tioning it.

So by the time Black History
Month rolled along I anticipated
the same recognition, but felt to
worn out to do anything about it.
Honestly, I didn’t care anymore,
until one morning when I spent
nearly four hours reading Ebony
and Essence magazines. Every
time I was about to put the maga-
zine down I’d see something else
that intrigued me. I soaked up the
pages like a sponge. When I fi-
nally got around to picking up my

Landess

McKelway »

Continued from page 7

the number of students requesting them. Furthermore, special agree-
ments governing such a dorm or hall should be arrived at by’ those
allowed to live there. I was surprised that Mr. Terry thought he needed
to describe the rules of a quiet dorm in such stern detail. That, I should
think, would be up to the students.

Inany case, I want to assure you that the faculty’s only interest in this
matter is to make sure that, if there are students who want this , the
administration will provide it.

Alexander J. McKelway
Vice Chairman of the Faculty,

pro tem

Continued from page 7

ing their conduct with a minimum of specific prohibitions. Any elabo-
rate system of rules strictly enforced might promote a surface conformity
to the standards of behavior desired but would not effectively serve to
develop the maturity of character which is the aim of the College. Rather,
responsible maturity'is more likely to develop when a member of the
College community is both free and obligated to wrestle with principals
of conduct and to accept full responsibility of his/her own actions and
decisions.

‘As you can see, the intention of the Code of Responsibility, and the
reason for its adoption, is to promote, enhance and develop responsibil-
ity among students at Davidson College. ' It proposes to do that not by
providing an extensive set of rules but by trusting in the students of the
College, with the guidance of their peers, to adapt their behavior to the
circumstances of a close-knit community. If that does not occur, the
Code also undertakes to provide a mechanism to discipline those who are
irresponsible. The Code of Responsibility addresses this point as well.
The Honor Code and the Code of Respomsibility emphasize the individ-
ual’s involvement in and responsiblity to corporate the well-being of the
College community. In keeping with the latter, it is incumbent upon
every member of the College community to promote the climate which
these Codes seek to establish on the campus. This involves not only
counseling with fellow members of the College community concerning
theiractions but also bring the sanctions of the judicial system to bear

: upon those whose conduct is in violation of the Codes.

T hope that each of us will do all we can to help our friends and
colleagues adequately and appropriately deal with complaints regarding
improper conduct and to use the system in place to address inappropriate
behavior as necessary. Since each of us agreed to be governed and to
govern ourselves by the Code of Responsibilty and the Honor Code

. when we came to Davidson, we are therefore required to do our best to

make it work. And work it will, if used properly, as many years of ef-
fective operation can attest.
Bart Landess ‘81
Development Office

Fraternities

Continued from page 10

- think seriously about how you represent that house, because as it stands

now, the faculty, the administration, and many in the student body have
every reason to view the whole system in the way described earlier.
Fraternities and the court as a whole can provide wonderful opportuni-
ties for personal growth, responsibility, community service, and healthy

social interaction, but.they must not continue to accept the kinds of .
~ behavior and attitudes that have led to their poor deaecr if we wish
-to hold on to the system we have now.

Have an opinion? :
Call Chris Frampton at
_ -6022!1!

Solidarity Section: Erin Lee and Tené Moore

history book (which was what I
had planned to study) I realized
that I had been reading history.
For three and a half hours I read
about African Americans’ pastand
present. There was something so
awe inspiring about the articles
that I felt like I had been to the
Mountain Top. After that personal
experience T decided that I wouldn’t
be apathetic toward any cultural
holiday or event, becaust there’s
no telling how special or signifi-
cant that occasion is to someone
else.

1992 Black History Month has
passed Davidson by, along with
several other non mentioned dates,
and many more events are on the
way. Don’t letanother good thing
pass you by. Stay updated for
further Solidarity Events. Let’s
All Work Together to Unity

«Davidson!

Wallace

Continued frompage 7

forthcoming, it is important to be

aware of each other’s views and

their foundations. Many of the

members of Rusk seem to have
noticed or taken to heart the posi-
tive and unpretentious steps that
have already, and are continuing to
come about at SAE. Though I
cannot speak for every individual
by any means, I feel that there is

tremendous concern among Rusk

members at the thought of punish-

ing the SAE fraternity as a group,

beyond the realm of any possible

positive outcome. Wefeltthatour .
sanction against them allowed for,
among other things, an opportu-

nity to take a hard look at what
they, as a group, represent, and
some incentive to change. I per-
sonally,and I believe we asa group,
would question any policy deci-
sion affecting Davidson students
that would merely hurt them, build
incredible resentment, and nothave
any positive effects on the people
involved,

I offer these results and in-
sights not so much as an appeal on
behalf of SAE, butas information
to add to your set of personal fac-
tors that ultimately make up your
opinions. Though I hesitate to say
that Rusk’s action was the cause of
the campus investigation, I feel
somewhat responsible to clarify
our position and our intent, Again,
I cannot speak the opinion of each
ofthe 212 members of Rusk House,
but I feel confident in saying that I
sense a strong interest among our
members in the growth and learn-
ing opportunity provided by the
recentevents, which we would hate

to see stifled by ahasty palsy de-
cision.
Susan H. Wallace
President, Rusk House
bg i -
