“<THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3, 1992

Welcome to Davidson

io

N

Sincerely yours,

From College President John Kuykendall:

Dear Friends,
All of us at Davidson College are happy to welcome you to the campus for the
NCAA Division I Men’s Soccer Tournament.
This has been a wonderful year for Davidson soccer and one of the most exciting
playoff seasons of all time! We are not only proud of our team, but proud of all of
the teams which have participated in this year’s tournament. We count it a special
privilege to be able to host this year’s championship games. :
I trust that each of you who comes as a visitor will depart as a friend. I hope that
you will have a chance to enjoy both the campus and the town of Davidson while
you are here. It is a unique place.
Best of luck to all who have come to cheer your favorite team...but please forgive
me if I have an obvious favorite.

- John Kuykendall

aN

y,

A Crash Course in the History of Davidson College

By Towner Blackstock

In 1835, the Concord
Presbytery set out to establish a
college “to bring the benefits of
education within the reach of the
poor boys of the community and
preparatory to the Gospel Minis-
try.” Within a year, construction
beganon Davidson College, named
in honor of General William
Davidson, whodied at the Battle of
Cowans Ford during the Revolu-
tion. You may still see two of the
first small, one-story dorms, Oak
and Elm Row, in between Cham-
bers and Main Street. They were
in place in time for the first sixty-
four students to arrive in March
1837. :

Initially Davidson had a
“manual labor system”, where stu-
dents worked as field hands for the
College in order to offset their
boarding costs. By 1841,toomany
disassembled wagons stuck in the
tops of trees convinced the Trust-
ees that the system didn’t work.
Students welcomed the change, but
remained generally bored in their
isolated rural locale. The two liter-
ary societies, Eumenean and Phil-
anthropic with. their beautifully
furnished 1850 buildings, provided
the only social outlet available. in
the form of writing and debating,
and gave awelcome addition tothe
strict rote memorization expected
in a Classical curriculum. They
also provided the basis for the
Honor Code known and respected
by all Davidson students.

For most of its early exist-
ence, “poverty and indifference”
continued to plague Davidson, in-
cluding an 1854 incident where
the entire student body left school
to protest the expulsion ofa fellow
student by the faculty. However,
cooler heads, solid discipline, and
a sizable donation by Maxwell
Chambers gave the school the sup-
port it needed to secure its future.

His legacy provided for the con-
struction of Chambers Building,
finished in 1860, and in itstime the

South.

moved from state to regional
prominence, expanding its student

body and physical plant. A gym, °

dent enrollment grew to over three
hundred by 1910. In 1921, how-
ever, the Old Chambers Building

te
K

ee

Photo Courtesy of College Relations
grandest academic building inthe chemical lab building, library burned, leaving students and

building, and new dorms sprung

alumni alike unsure of the future.

After theCivil War,Davidson up before World War I, and stu- A new Chambers Building, com-

pleted in 1929, signaled a new era
of continued growth and success
for Davidson. Otherimprovements
included a revolutionary college-
owned fraternity court (now Jack-
son Court), the first of its kind,
added in 1928 to house the frater-
Nities thathad existed secretly since
1858 but officially only since the
1880s.

After the Second World War
Davidson has seen many advance-
ments. African-American students
arrived in the early sixties, and
women were admitted as full stu-
dents in the early seventies. That
period of time brought Davidson

- its national renown as a top liberal

arts college, and the past ten years
have only solidified that reputa-
tion. Additional dorms, a gargan-
tuan sports facility, and a modern
new infirmary have been recently
added to the campus, now nearly
recovered from the ravages of
Hurricane Hugo in 1989. Several
renovations of historic Main Street
buildings have been undertaken by
the College, including the red brick
Helper Hotel (1848). Currently
under construction is the new arts _.
building, signaling the start of an
aggressive building campaign to
bring even greater resources and
opportunities to the Davidsoncom-
munity. :

From shaky. beginnings but
firm resolve in 1836, Davidson has
built upon the faith of her founders
an admirable community of 1600

_ Students, a prestigious faculty, and

a rigorous and respected curricu-

~~ lum stressing the liberal arts, while

providing the opportunities of a

- larger campus in a small town en-

vironment. Considering it all be-
gan with just 64 students (only
eleven of whom graduated) and a
faculty of just three including the
president, Davidson College has

See "History" on page 8
