20

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1992

THE BACK PAGE INTERVIEW

With General G. G. Govan, Former Military Attache to Moscow

By John Patton & David Smyth
General Govan, ‘64, former military attache to Moscow,
visited Davidson last semester and John Patton caught up
with him long enough for the following interview.

Davidsonian: Could you give us a brief synopsis of your
career for those who might not know your background?

Govan: I graduated in ’64 and went directly into the Army
and served an initial tour with the Corps of Engineers as a
combat arms detailer. Then I got into military intelligence
and from that into the Soviet foreign area officer program.
The Army has a program allowing specialization in various
geographic areas, one of which is the Soviet Union/East
Europe. I started that training in 1970 with language training
and received a graduate degree in what is in essence Soviet
studies from the University of Virginia. And then I spent
two years at the Army Russian Institute in Germany which
at that time was a substitute for in-country residence either
as a traveller or a student.

Since completing the program I’ ve spent all of my time
associated with Soviet things in one form.or another. I’ve
had two tours with the U.S. military liaison mission in
Potsdam and two tours in Moscow with the Defense attache
office. So I guess those are the most important highlights.

Davidsonian: I understand now from what John Howell has
told me that you’re going to be working for the CIA.

Govan: I’m working in the CIA building but not with the
CIA. The director of the Central Intelligence Agency has
two hats. In one he is director of the CIA but he also has a
higher hat. He is the President’ s intelligence officer and as
such he has responsibility for coordination of the intelli-
gence efforts of all agencies, the CIA plus those of the
Department of Defense and other governmental agencies.
And Iam one of several military officers under the director
in his DCI, Director of Central Intelligence, hat and will be
working in an organization called the National Intelligence
Council which is concerned with the intel output side of the
DCI’s coordination effort.’

There is also a thing called the intelligence community
staff which is concerned with the intel input side, the budget,
manpower and other resources that go into the collection of
intelligence. My concern in working for Mr. Gates will be
in his hat as DCI on the output side, the intelligence product
or the estimate.

Davidsonian: That leads into my next question about
intelligence and its future. What are our threats and what do
they hold for the future of the intelligence community
- including the CIA, the DIA and all the others?

Govan: With the Soviet threat gone the question becomes,
_ “What do you do now?” Now that we’ve won what do we
demobilize? That was the answer in the past always. Once
you were through with a conflict that you had built up for
then you demobilize after that conflict. The Cold War over

the last forty some-odd years was in many ways an intelli-

gence struggle.

One of the main components of this war that thankfully
never actually came to the deployment of armaments was
that it was fought by alotof people like me who gained some
sort of countersin this strange looking glass war by knowing
something about the other side that the other side didn’t

want known. And that became one of the mechanisms for -

keeping score in this war. Do we want to demobilize now
that the “enemy@is gone?

One of the things that the Soviet Union as a threat did
was it gave logic and consistency and structure to what we
in this country did. All other problems were in many ways
subsumed by the Soviet problem. So if we were confronted’
with a civil war in country X we almost inevitably saw it in
terms of anEast/West struggle for mayer in Xrather than
on the merits of the case.

It wasn’t completely fatuous that we came up with this
East/West struggle over X but certainly we tended to see
everything in terms of the great rivalry. Containment is
over; we have to look beyond that. The military now is
reducing. We engineered a proposal for a cut in the military
to what is called a base force largely as a result of what took
place in Eastern Europe in 1989. Fundamental changes in

the threat of war in central Europe and the likelihood of war
involving central strategic nuclear systems between the
Soviet Union and the U.S. Asa result of those fundamental
changes the Defense Department engineered a proposed
base force that was a significant reduction of over twenty-
five percent to current forces. Now with further changes in
the Soviet Union there will be further reductions, maybe.

The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs have articulated a national military strategy conso-
nant with the President’s goals and this is the minimum
number of forces necessary to implement that strategy.
We’ ve got to have a certain capability to do certain things.
and mostly this is to be prepared to intervene in things like
Iraq: or Panama if the need should arise to protect U.S.
interests and citizens abroad.

Now, the need for good intelligence is not going to go
down; it’s going to change. Before, the Soviet threat struc-
tured intelligence as muchas it structured anything else and
so it told us what kind of information we had to collect and
what sort of intelligence we had to produce from that
information and typically it was very fine-grained analysis
that would allow usin avery short period of time to go to war
with this adversary. We clearly don’t need that anymore, but
there are other pressing needs that under the pressure of the
Cold War we ignored or gave lower priority to. Among
them are the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction,
narcotics, and even information about causes of instability.
A lot of our intel system was structured to collect
information on the Soviets that would be useful to war-
fighters. That kind of information is less applicable to the
problems-we now have. A satellite taking pictures of tanks
in a motor park is still useful for monitoring compliance
with international treaties. It is less useful for predicting

what country X is going to do about country Y’s border

problem or the nature of ethnic unrest in Z or the flow
narcotics from South America to Europe to the United
States. So intel will continue to havea role to play.

Like everyone else it will do so in an era of decreasing
resources and unfortunately in an era of decreasing interest.
A lot of people in this country--not just cynical politicians
who want a peace dividend in their district--are going to
want see a result of the war being over. An analogy I would
draw would be the pressure that existed in the late fall and
early winter of 1945 to bring the boys home. They want to
bring the boys home.

Davidsonian: You’ ve been in the Soviet Union; you lived
there fora long period of timeand were there right before the
Augustcoupand I wonder if youcould give usan idea of that
situation from your own pointof view. Who are we dealing
with and what do you see that situation evolving into?

Govan: The question of with whom we’re dealing is a basic
one. For convenience.and a variety of other reasons we
would like to continue dealing with a unitary Soviet state. If
Ihave one office that is responsible for questions relating to
this land mass it’s easier to go to him and get asingle answer
than to go to fifteen or sixteen different people and get that
many differentanswers. If there is a unified office in control
maybe also théy are also able to impose some kind of unity
and decrease the amount of instability and from our point of
view unpredictability.

Last night I noted that Soviet studies in former times

were alittle bit like glaciology. Itmoved rather slowly, there -

was no question that it was big and if you got in front of it
itcould crush you. Butit was something that you could walk
away from, have acup of coffee, take a year off and write a
book and come back, check in with a couple of newspapers
and you were.able to maintain an academically credible
currency, That isn’t true any more; it hasn’t been true for a
number of years under the revolution that Gorbachev loosed.

The big problem then for us looking at the Soviet Union
and U.S. decision-makers is that we are in an era of great
uncertainty. Linear projections made sense all through the
seventies. You knew what the Soviet Union had done. There
was almost historic inevitability. There was certainly, an

accepted corpus of information from which you could .
derive intentions and you were able to get the two basic

components of the intel question: capability, what hecould
do and intention, what he was likely to do given that. Now,
both of those are in doubt. We know, to a much greater
degree, the capability.

So we know the toys he has and what he can do with

them. In somecases youcan domore witha given capability
than the capability would imply. I’ve heard people say that
the Gulf Warcould havebeen fought to the same conclusion
if we had swapped equipment sets. That our people were so
incredibly well-trained and so well motivated and had put
their guide on the moral high ground that we would have still
beaten them.
'  That’s an extreme statement. Unquestionably, techno-
logical superiority and the proper use of that technology
played akey role. But it underscores a valid point, that how
fast a tank can move and how far it can shoot with what
accuracy and what proof it is against the other guy’s anti-
tank weapons isn’t the end of the story. In some ways you
can perform better than you would expect from the equip-
ment you have. The Israelis defeating the Arabs in ’73 with
World War II Shermans is one example.

The Soviet Union continues to maintain a capability to
destroy America asa society, the only people that can hope
todo that in ashortperiod of time. Butis thatacapability that
is likely to be used?

Though the nuclear inventory hasn’t changed very
much at no time has there been less likelihood that we’re
going to go to war with the Soviets over any credible
political objective. The future, though is very uncertain,
always is. Yogi Berra said, “The future ain’t what it used to

_ be.” That’s clearly true today. You can come up with a

number of guessesas to what’s going to happen, not tomany
of which are going to have: an influence on American
existence or policy or interests directly.

We don’tknow who the actors of the future ar are going to
be. If everything goes well, it’s a race between historical
determinism that says that Russia will slip back as it always
did after a period of revolutionary fervor into a kind of
autocratic stupor. It’s a race between that and the hope that
out of a truly revolutionary situation you can have real
change. Not that man is savable but that he can make
progress.

Davidsonian: Did yousee any indications that this ‘Might be
different? That they might avoid this historical stupor that
you spoke of?

Govan: Yes. The mostdramatic wasrightafter! leftand that
was the events on the 20th of August when the people rallied
to Yeltsin’s cause. When the coup was announced it was like
getting hit in the head with a hammer. It was an absolute
shock, watching on CNN as all the world does at an air base ©
in Germany where we were on leave, having just left the
Soviet Union. I turned the TV on thatmorning and there was
the announcement that hardliners had deposed Mikhail
Gorbachev and I thought , ,““Oh, no.”

I thought that what’s going to happen is that these old
men are going to get up there and try to turn the clock back
‘and they’re going toreada proclamation and the Russian are
going to bow their heads and punch their shoulders and
shuffle off to go stand in the food lines. And that’s going to
be it. I didn’t have sufficient faith in the people that I’d
studied all this time because historically that’s what should
have happened. And it didn’t. Because of the truly inc -ed-
ible personal and political bravery of a few people, the
Yeltsins and Sobchaks and Popovs of the world, And then
the real heroism of a lot of crazy people that stood up in the
best tradition of the students in Les Miserables. Why is it
that the revolutionaries always have better songs than the
government? Well, the Russian people had the better song
and rose to a level of responsibility that I don’t think most
people would have credited them with. That was reason for
hope. People began to lose the fear of speaking out and
began to realize that the truth could actually be told. That’s
along way around of saying that some leaders emerged out

_ Of an historically conditioned ‘past where they ea t

have.

In anumber of different ways I was ned to see an
independence of thought and the raw ability to grow that I
wouldn’thave expected and had noreason to expect. I’m not
defending being wrong about my estimate of the possibility
but you weren’t inclined to credit them with the possibility
of being successful, In that regard it was a great revolution.
That doesn’ t mean that two weeks or ten years from now
they can’t lose it all and somebody will make the fatal
bargain and say, “I’m tired of eating freedom. I wantbread.”
