THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS ___

MONDAY, MARCH 8, 1993 3

Man Shows Self in Chambers

Flasher continued from page I

sion he exited the same door that
he had entered.

“I wasn’t scared because it
was broad daylight but it made me
wonder: if he would do something
like that during the day, what would
he do at night?” said Moore. She
said that because the man did not
come towards her she knew he did
not intend to hurt her.

Moore went immediately to’

the Registrar’s office and reported
the incident to the campus police.
According to the campus police
report, officers were dispatched to
the area directly after the incident
was reported. No one by that
description was found.
According to Officer Rick
Moore, the campus police are “‘ac-
tively investigating it.”
Incidents of indecent expo-
sureoncampus have occurred prior
to Friday’s display. Campus po-

lice report that one person was ar-
rested in November of ‘93 and an-
other “several months” before.
Officer Moore stated that the people
who have been arrested “have been
from off campus.”

Moore, the victim, traveled to
Huntersville on Wednesday March
3 to make acomposite sketch of the
man who “flashed” her. Acomput-
erized system allowed her to shape
the facial features of a man whom
she decided mostclosely resembled
the “flasher”. She was also shown
a picture line up.

After studying the pictures she
identified her first choice and a
second one after “over-analyzing”
the portraits. Moore admitted that
her “first instinct” in choosing the
picture of the man was the picture
of the police’s suspect.

Moore also commented,
“Something like that happening in
the city is expected, but here at
Davidson it is very unusual.”

Prof.'s Course Load to Fall

Load continued from page 1

cals to preclude the need to hire
replacement faculty.

While the decision of the de-
crease in faculty course-load has
surprised many students, it is the
product of many years of plan-
ning. Dean Williams commented
that the decision seems sudden to
students because of the lack of
communication between the ad-

ministration. and students over the «

‘Ppastyearsyuog viegois rocks)
The administration wishes to
improve communication with the
Educational Policy Committee as
well as the new SGA Council on

Academic Affairs. Before final- -

izing the decision, the administra-

cxNN ON (NNN S x cXNNXNNNNXNNNNNXNN,
SSSI LSI LIP LPL PILL.

aR

ww

ny
NN
ww

BS

NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN
LAKE NORMAN’S NEWEST

PL OILLS
OLS PP LALO L ILL IIL LS LIL IS LLIN
INN NN NNN NESSES NNN SLMS LL ILI SILLS IIIS ENE EEN ’ N

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
SPRING SPECIAL

TAKE-OUT ANY OF OUR SPECIALTY PIZZAS
(Tomato & Basil © Spit-Roasted Chicken « B.L-T)
OR
ANY TRADITIONAL PIZZA--HAND TOSSED, OR EXTRA THIN
(Cheese, Peppers, Onions, Bacon, Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Sausage)

10" PIZZA (Any 3 Toppings)
14" PIZZA (Any 3 Toppings)

SPECIAL een GOOD
ANY DAY ~ 11:00AM-7:00PM & 9:00PM-11:00PM

PLLA L LIAL IIL LILI ILLIA LILA ILS PIS
LL LLL LLL LIL ILL ELLER OE EOE ERE NEN NEN ENN ES “NS

tion carefully consulted the faculty
and Trustees.

Nevertheless, the responsibil-
ity of the decision ultimately lay
with the administration.

Dean Williams writes: “I be-
lieve that Davidson’s strength
makes possible a change that will
improve faculty productivity, pro-
vide for greater attention to stu-
dents, and improve our professional
standing relative to our peer insti-
tutions; including oar ability to re-

~“erdit and retain first-class faculty.”

Chairs will assign a teaching
load of five courses to full-time
faculty beginning in the Fall of
1994, and the administration will
monitor the change on an annual

ee

FULL-SERVICE

RESTAURANT & BAR

Open Everyday For
LUNCH-DINNER
LATE NIGHT

is offering a

CILLA

NNNXNANNNAX
IITLT LLL ILI SS

xz

$4.95
$6.95

7.

x NAXNANAAAASXASAAAS
RIEEPLIILILILS LSS SL AL LLL A

(SII ISIS.

PY

CALL OR FAX ALEAD-WE'LL HAVE TUEM READY!
PHONE: 896-0085 or FAX: 896-8010

SLIOPS ON TILE GREEN
I-77 N, Exit 28
Adjacent to Comfort lan
Cornelius, NC ; .

NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN « NOW OPEN * NOW OPEN

Open Letter

Terry Reconsiders No Cluster Policy

For the last two weeks I feel like I've been in one long conversation regarding the new non-cluster lottery policy.
During that time many colleagues and students have looked at me sadly and said “Tough week, huh.’ Actually ithas been
avery thought-provoking and, I think, constructive period. I would like to thank everyone, (even you, Grossman) for
being willing to talk to me civilly and maturely. Further, thanks for being willing to listen to me. Given the manner in
which this policy was changed perhaps it would have been fair for students not to listen at all. I would like to specifically
thank the Student Government Association, the Council on Campus and Religious Life, Joe Cook, and B.J. Rudell for
their attention to this policy and the wishes and needs of the student body as a whole.

Throughout this discussion I believe there have been two principles at stake. First, our campus community should
actively endorse openness to and respect for people of varying ethnic, cultural, religious, economic, and social
backgrounds. Second, if we are serious when we talk about ‘the college community’ then students should have some
voice in matters that, to quote the SGA response to this issue, “singularly affect” them. I think it is safe to say that the
latter of these two principles was not represented in this process.

At the risk of sounding defensive I would like to shed some light on how this kind of policy could find its way into
print without consulting students in advance. Like many on our campus, I have been frustrated at the lack of interaction
between different types of students (and faculty and staff) in our community. I think itis clear that there are not as many
opportunities for this type of exposure as there need to be. I have-been struck by the degree of separation that exists on
many upperclass floors. I am amazed that students can go a full year knowing no more than a fellow resident’s name,
if that. In Residence Life we have begun to develop greater expectations of Resident Advisors with respect to building
community and these divisions represent a serious obstacle. The idea of eliminating clusters seemed an obvious strategy
for promoting greater interaction between students, so obvious, in fact, that the way students would react or their
perception of what this policy would do to their lives did not occur to me, My thinking was not that ‘students will hate
this, but we’re doing it anyway.’

It has become clear in the last two weeks that the discussion around this issue should have preceded our decision.
If I had it to do over again, I would approach it quite differently.

It is vital to me, however, that the message not be lost in the haggling over how the policy was introduced. I’ve been
told, ‘You can’t force people to be friends’, and ‘Some people just don’t want to meet new, different folks.’ I agree, we
can’t force friendships. But Davidson’s mission is to develop liberated minds that think critically, to inculcate a sense
of responsibility to one’s community here and beyond. If a student doesn’t want to engage new ideas and is happy getting
adiploma, going to grad school, getting the big salary, and joining acountry club, there are plenty of other schools (some
probably less expensive) that can do a good enough job of that. True learning rarely occurs without challenge and part
of our job is to see that you aren’t allowed to safely memorize your way through this place.

By thesame token give credence to some of the arguments I have heard in the last days that remind me of the value
of a support system within the residence hall community.. Some have argued convincingly that clusters themselves are
not always made up of best friends and that exposure to different ways of living can occur within them. Others point
to the sensitive nature of any decision that influences who you sleep and live around. My decision, then, is to modify
the non-cluster policy as stated in the lottery handbook. For this spring’s lottery, clusters will be allowed for groups
totalling 4, i.e. two pairs of roommates. If triples are involved, 5 or 6 individuals may cluster together. Prior to this year
clusters had been limited to 4 rooms or 8 people, Itis important to note that we continue to use the percentage limits for
social affiliates that have been in effect for several years now. Consult the Lottery Brochure for elaboration of this policy.
This revision is in response to both principles outlined above.

It-is my avowed intention to include students in a meaningful way in policy decisions in the future. To that end,
a representative of the SGA will be meeting with me regularly to review current polices and future plans in Residence
Life. For this spring that contact will be B.J. Rudell. B.J. encourages you to conact him with questions or comments
that pertain to Residence Life. Again let me thank the entire studentbody for fis patiente and maturity ii addressing this
matter.

Sincerely,
Richard Terry
Director of Residence Life

We've found the hottest places—
at the lowest price.

Let’s Go: e Europe ¢ Italy ¢ Britain & lreland ¢ France
e Germany, Austria & Switzerland ¢ Greece & Turkey
e Israel & Egypt e Spain & Portugal ¢ London e Paris « Rome
" @ Mexico e U.S.A. © New York City Washington, D.C.
e Pacific Northwest, Western Canada & Alaska
¢ California & Hawaii

Lav’s Go, Inc.
A supsipiany of Hanvanp Strupent Acsnciss, inc.

‘Sr. Martm’s Prass

