9. THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINI ONS

For the past several years, the issue of the environment
has leapt to the forefront of national and international news.
We elected a presidential ticket last year which included one
ofcountry’s foremost environmentalist spokesmen, Al Gore.
No one is anti-environment, so the debates which surround
such issues usually concern the specific measures we should
take to preserve the environment rather than the question of
whether we-should.-Of course we- should; we will not
survive unless we do, and what more basic objective is there
than survival?

One facet of the great environmentalist awakening has
bothered me, though, and raised ethical questions which
create hot debates around the world. Our responsibility to
preserve the atmosphere and the water supply is clear, but
what is our responsibility as human beings to the other the
animals on the earth? :

People express their concern for animals in many ways,
each revealing a different philosophy on animal rights.
Some refuse to eat meat; some just refuse to eat veal; some
throw paint on people’s fur coats; some even refuse to swat
flies.

What many of these people don’t realize is that by
throwing paint on furs, they actually help the business of the
fur dealers by forcing the rich people to buy new ones to
replace the old one some nut ruined. They also don’t realize
that while they don’t eat meat, the Birkenstocks that cushion
their feet have leather straps on them. -

I’m not trying to cut on people who believe in respect-
ing animals’ lives, or on people who wear Birkenstocks.
Though some people are inconsistent. in their support of
animal rights, i.e. vegetarians who wear leather, they have

Alex Crumbley
Save the humans.

every right to eat and to wear what they want, and they don’t

shave to kill flies if it weighs heavy on their consciences.

What Ido havea problem with is a person who tries to force
his own conscience onto me, i.e. by throwing paint on my fur
coat, or just plain making me feel guilty for eating a piece of
meat.

I understand wanting to preserve endangered species.
But what about the other ones that aren’t endangered at all,
like cows or rabbits? We kill them for food, for their hides,
for fun. Do humans have more right to life than cows or
rabbits? Of course, my answeris yes, because lama human.

A major point of debate is the issue of animal research.
I do not understand people who disapprove of doing tests on
rats and other animals to help save human lives later on.
Testing them fortrivial things such as lipstick or mouthwash
is questionable, but as for medical research, I think there is
no doubt that we should. As humans, we should look out for
ourselves first.

We care about other animals because our consciences
stir when we see animals who remind us of ourselves being
harmed. It’s not that most people particularly respect their
right for life; this is obvious when we fumigate our homes
and slaughter hundreds of innocent insects.

We think an animal like a bear is cute because it
displays some sort of human quality, such as having a family
or having chubby cheeks or looking cuddly. They strike a

‘note in our human minds, and we feel that we should protéct

them. Worms don’t look cuddly, so most people don’t care
about them. :

From a Darwinian standpoint, no animal has a right to
do anything. We just exist here, and we survive if we are
strong enough or smart enough to do it. It seems harsh, and
itis. Rights are just something we invented to make life
easier for ourselyes, to give other humans reason not to kill
us in this game of survival of the fittest. We project those
rights onto other animals, but no other animals have a
concept of rights, so they do not really exist for them. By
arguing for animal rights, we are not doing it for the sake of
the animals, but for the sake of our own consciences which
promise to plague us if we do not.

I read a story the other day about an animal rights
activist who made a big name for herself politically by
advocating the rights of an endangered species of bears.
During a photo opportunity at a park, one of the bears broke
through a fence and tore off her head. This simple story
illustrates an important point; if you’re a big animal rights
activist, you’d better be doing it for your own reasons,
because nature just doesn’t care.

Our self-centered view of nature is also evident in the
slogan, “Save the Earth!” Let’s get one thing straight. Ifthe
environment changes enough to kill off humanity, the earth
will still be here, and other species ofanimals and plants will
adapt to the new situation fine.

If you want to keep the environment the way it is, and
you should, then get off the “Save the Earth” and the “Save
the Whales” idea, and say what needs to be said more and
more these days, “Save the Humans.”

Robert Ramsay

Perspectives on Christmas.

© fer outer vs Vet ane Mews servicer
MALE:

This is the last Davidsonian for a while,
so I thought I would cram my article full of
varied ideas and opinions so the readers
would not face a provocative thought deficit
over Christmas break. Kind of an opinions
tree hung with many ornaments. -Or a jour-
nalistic gift filled

THESE RAT EXPERIMENTS er Te
OUS/MAKES YA
ARE REST WHO'S RUNNING (S COOL HEH-HEH-HEH.
ols rae TEA fous [dba tak hoe VINGS OVER AT NASA.

granola way, mind you; I don’t talk to trees
or use herbal medicines. But the magnifi-
cence of Half Dome can overwhelm me. I
climbed it a couple years ago, and I swear I
could see Canada. I stand up there, look

around, and think

with an assortment

there is no way the

of thoughtful trea-
sures. Or a nativity
scene set with nu-
merous characters

"Hanging from the
strut of a Cesna at 6000 feet
is like transcending this

world is running out
of trees—I can see
all of them and be-
lieve me, there are

representing the world. And plenty.

range of social com- Now that I think

mentary. Come, all then you let §0 and float about it, height im-

ye faithful. . . for what seems like presses me more. I
I want to write a millenia." suppose that is why

about what im- Tenjoy skydiving so

presses me. There much. Hanging

are many things that fit into this category—
in other words, I am easily impressed—but
I want to focus on the big guys. For ex-
ample, humor impresses me. Especially
humor from those who would not be ex-
pected to make a joke. Recently, I was

serving lunch at a shelter for women. The ©

place was full of women who were unedu-
cated, unskilled, unmotivated, but mostly
just unlucky.

I was in charge of the drinks. The
women would come up to me and I would
say, “Coke, Diet Coke, or Sprite?” They
would then make their choice, get it from
me, and sit down. I was minimally im-
pressed at first by the whole process, by the
way these downtrodden women still had

their dignity and a shred of hope despite ©

their circumstances. Then a woman in the
line approached me. She was dressed in
clothes that were never fashionable in this
country and were a little dirty, and her face
was stern as stone. I said, “Coke, Diet Coke,
or Sprite?” as was my job. She looked at me
for a moment and then said, “Huh, bad hair
day?”

It didn’t even register at first. I just
stood there with a stupid smile on my face
and handed her a drink. She walked away
smiling, and her face was glowing. Then it
hit me. This woman has no home and she is
making fun of my hair! was so amazed that
someone in her position could make a joke
and get so much pleasure out of it. Wow, I
thought. Then again, if homeless people are
making fun of me, how pathetic am I? I wear
a hat now.

from the strut of a Cesna at 6,000 feet is like
transcending this world. And then you let go
and float for what seem like millennia.

Imagine the best feeling you have ever
had in your entire life, and it is undebatably
surpassed by a perfect skydive. If you don’t
believe me, come with me some time. It will
make you a believer.

Sex impresses me. Not casual, forced,
or codified sex that is so prevalent today, but
the ideal sex that poets write about, the kind
of sex the Greek gods were supposed to
have. The kind that may be better than
skydiving. :

Does anyone know what I am talking
about? This reminds me of a poem that
impresses me. It is by Robert Herrick, and
guys, if you memorize this for special occa-
sions, you may learn what I am talking
about.

Have ye beheld (with much delight)
A ted rose peeping through a white?
Or else a cherry (double graced)
Within a lily center-placed?

Or ever marked the pretty beam
A strawberry shows half drowned in

cream?
Or seen rich rubies blushing through
A pure smooth pearl, and orient too?

_ So like to this, nay all the rest,

Is each neat niplet of her breast.

Wow.

Christmas impresses me. Now, I know
that the “what Christmas means to me”
theme is overdone. It really is no one’s

Etymologies reveal Paul's meaning

Classics continued from page 7

males exchanged the natural function of
intercourse for one contrary to nature.”

1:27 continues:

“Similarly, males, putting aside the
natural function of intercourse with females,
became inflamed in their lustful passion for
one another, males accomplishing inappro-
priate behavior [aschemosune] among males,
and receiving wages which were necessary
for their error [plane] among themselves.”

Asonecansee from this translation, the
two words aschemosune and plane have
meanings quite different from Grubb’s ap-
parent paraphrase. Aschemosune is related
to the word aschemonein, which means “to
behave improperly” or “to behave not ac-
cording to the norm,” and also has the con-
notations of nakedness. Our word “scheme,”
meaning plan, comes from this word.

Planeiscommonly translated as “error,
deception, or lie,” and in the verb form
means “to lead or go astray, to mislead, tobe
mistaken” or “to wander.” Here we find the
origin of our word “planet,” as the Greeks
said that the planets “wandered” through the
heavens.

The common translation “perversion”
for this word in this verse, as in the Oxford
Study Bible, seems to imply more than Paul
intended, and is another example of a moral
projection which is not supported by the
text.

Sincerely,

Classics 316:

Brooke McRae ‘96

Chad Martin ‘96

Brett Marston ‘94

Amy Morrison ‘96

Drew Van Culin ‘95

Anne Zirkle ‘94

The meal plan is highway robbery

Food continued from page 7

If Vail truly is all you can eat, why can’t
Ieat my apple in Belk? Why can’t I fill my
Davidson Recycling cup with some Mello-
Yello before I go to class? I’m not wasting
it, I am.consuming it. The rule is, take all
that you can eat; and I can eat the apple in
question, so why the controversy? _

From what I have heard around cam-
pus, the reason for this stingy policy is
because students have taken advantage of it

advantage of” entail? Filling up a gallonof
milk is taking advantage of the system.
Bringing ina cooler so you can take a box of
ice cream bars is taking advantage of the
system. But is a 32-0z. cup of Mello-Yello
and an apple going to bankrupt the school?
I don’t think so.

And even if it was a problem of eco-
nomics, take the eight to ten meals I miss a
week and create a special fund so students
like me can have an extra apple or two.

Sincerely,

Patrick Montoya ‘97
