OPINIONS

8

MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

When I was five, I wanted to be Super-
man. I lived in my Superman Underoos and
Superman cape continuously. I would get
up every Saturday morning at 5:45 and
watch the colored lines on the screen until
“The Hall of Justice” would come on. I
always liked Green Lantern and Wonder
Woman, but I knew that nobody could beat
up Superman if he got mad.

I watched every one of his moves and

memorized things he said like, “Justice will »

prevail.” The only thing that separated me
from being the next man of steel was learn-
ing how to fly. So every night I would stand
on top of my top bunk and jump up as high
as I could. Nothing ever worked.

So one day I figured that my flying
form must be wrong. Superman jumped
forwards instead of up. So I decided to dive
off my top bunk head first. But it didn’t
quite work like I thought it would. Instead
of flying around the room, I just kept falling
and did a belly flop on the middle of the
floor. It hurt really badly, and I had to go to
the hospital.

Holt Vaughan

I want to be

superman.

After that, my mom told me I couldn’t
play Superman anymore, so I decided to
change career goals. I was going to be one
of Santa’s helpers. I reasoned that getting
paid to play with toys all day was about as
good as it was going to get. One day I
packed up my back pack and started my way
tothe North Pole. Ithink I got about halfway
through my backyard when I realized I didn’t
have directions. So I went inside and asked
my mom to drive me there, but she said no.

Over the next few years, my career
aspirations kept varying. I went from want-
ing to be an astronaut, to a building maker,
to a professional babysitter. (All you had to
do was tell kids when to go to bed and than
you could watch TV the rest of the time.)
When I was in Middle School, I just as-
sumed I was going to be a professional
tennis player because I was number one on
the sixth grade team.

When I went to high school, people
really started to ask me serious questions--
like when was I going to take the S.A.T. So
I decided to get serious. I started to study
really hard and ran for student government
offices. People told me that doing these type
of things were good for my future.

By the time I was a senior, I started to
stress about college. I started to weigh my
options by looking at my strengths and weak-
nesses. I couldn’t go to Harvard because my
S.A.T. wasn’t high enough. I couldn’t go to
the University of Texas because their tennis
team was too good. I couldn’t go to Tulane
because they partied too hard. To make a
long story short, lended up here, at Davidson,
because it was one of the only schools that fit
into my confined criteria.

Now, as a Junior in college, I am faced
with a new question--what do I want to do
with the rest of my life. Once again, I am

finding that my choices are limiting them-
selves and I’m being pushed into careers
against some of my will. I can’t become a
Doctor because I made a “C” in Biology. I
can’t be a full-time writer because they
don’t make enough money.

So I’m thinking about communications
or law. I’m interested in these fields, but I’m
not dying to go into either one. To tell you
the truth, what I really want to do with the
rest of my life is what I wanted to be ever
since I was five. I want to be Superman. I
don’t care what anyone else says, I think it
would be the coolest job in the world.

ButI can’t be Superman because no one
will let me. I always thought that the older
I got the more freedom I would have. But to
this point in my life, I’ve found nothing but
the complete opposite to be true.

It’s kind of weird, I guess. When I was
five, I could do whatever I wanted. I could
live out any dream and nobody would say
anything. But now, when I’m supposed to
be grown and independent--it seems like all
my dreams are being chosen for me.

Will Lazenby
Trustee policy

would breed
diversity.

I would like to say a few words in
response to Greg Garrison’s article, “Don’t
put a capital in liberal arts.” It is an interest-
ing, thought-provoking article. Obviously
Garrison did his homework. Yet I still have
some misgivings about leaving the Trustee
policy as it is.

I don’t think that a policy change would
just to be fair to the “non-church attending
students.” I think the policy needs changing
because it is dated. Not all of the students
here are like Alice Spivey, who came here

“knowing that Davidson isa Christian school '

and not a secular one where anything goes.”
Some of us came here for a concentrated
academic and educational experience, an
experience that includes viewing other cul-
tures and religions with respect and equal-
ity.

Yes, Davidson was founded on Chris-
tian ideals. And at one time all of the
students here were Christians. But this is no
longer the case. Each year the student body
becomes more diverse. Hindus, Muslims,
Jews and Buddhists ‘all take part-in the
Davidson experience.

These students have the right to every-
thing this college has to offer, including the
chance to achieve leadership positions. The
SGA and other student organizations have
benefited greatly from the contributions and
wisdom of their non-Christian students.
These students, like their Christian counter-
parts, excel in all areas, including decision
making.

Considering this fact, I do not see how
it is fair to argue that the Trustees must be
Christians. Garrison’s statement that “An
objective view of another culture is a good
mean toward the end of a liberal . . . educa-
tion” obviously does not apply to those
people of “another culture,” whose view of
their own culture is subjective. Why an
objective view? Can’t I take an Asian reli-
gion course, see that I believe what is being
taught, and act accordingly?

Garrison’s statement implies an unwill-
ingness to acknowledge any other culture or
religion as “right,” besides one’s own. If
this is the case, then why have students of
other cultures here? Can’t we just learn
about them in textbooks? Or are they just
specimens that we can study, to see how
they react in our environment, which is, of
coursé, the right one?. No, students of other

Tee ucsneteapse PPM =

«(o’

MUST BE A TRULY

| Westy ChRe: REFORM

SO We've CAMED IN A
LEADING DOCTOR FrON THE REAGAN
APANINISTRATION !

religions and cultures are here to make
Davidson a better place by being involved,
by having a say in what goes on here. They
are equals. This place is just as much theirs
as it is the Christian students, and the input
from non-Christians is as important and
valuable as that of any other students.

_ And so it should be with the Trustees.
If Davidson is going to acknowledge the
abilities and intelligence of non-Christian
students (which it does just by having them
here) then it is unfair not to allow non-
Christian people to be Trustees.

Anyone good enough for Davidson to
accept is good enough to be considered for
a Trustee position, regardless of religion. If
the Trustees have to be Christian, shouldn’t
the same go for the student body? If Chris-
tianity is the only “right” way, then why
bother with students from other cultures and
religions at all? Just to get a liberal (small 1)
education? Christianity is not necessarily
“right” for everyone.

And many students come to college to
search out their faith with eclecticism, dis-
covering what is in their hearts by exposing
themselves subjectively to other religions
and other ideas. People discover them-
selves this way. Intelligent leaders often
discover themselves this way.

To say that only Christians are capable
to lead this school is not liberal with a capital
L.. It is,closed-minded with a capital C.

Break continued from page 7

will now be able to be a part of the Christmas
feeling. Dr. McKelway, I have a really
complex and detailed. way to fix your fi-
asco— start school a week earlier. Every-
one is ready for school to start in mid-
August, so why wait until September?

Your justification for this retarded
school schedule to the Council on Academic
Affairs was that it is necessary to align our
schedule to that of the Charlotte-Mecklen-
burg Public School Districts.

Why? Besides the obvious fact that we
pay for the professors’ salaries, I wonder

what crime would be committed if the sched-
ules weren’t aligned. Let’s say Davidson
gets out of classes on December 17, then a
professor without children in school could
leave and go home to his family. A profes-
sor with children could take care of all of the
Christmas preparations without having
classes to teach while the kids are at school.
Yes, Dr. McKelway, Ican now see your
perfectly crystal clear reasoning. The one
good outcome of this farce is that, for the
most part, I will see the real Christmas in
Davidson. To be honest, I think I would
rather see the real Christmas in Dallas.
Grady Alsabrook ‘95

Reverse discrimination causes resentment

Thle continued from page 7

minorities for years and feminist groups
have had to battle for every ounce of progress
women have received. I am not advocating
that everything that happened in history was
fair, but my question to you is this: is not the
manner in which we are trying to rectify this
problem actually reverse discrimination?
Many of the problems between differ-
ent races and genders are not caused by
discrimination but rather by resentment.
Resentment towards the fact that one person

- can be hired over.a.more qualified person,

Resentment of the fact that I may work as
hard or harder than many of my minority
friends and never reap the rewards. It does
not matter to me if a person is male, female,
white, or black. All I want is for the most
competent person to receive the benefits.

To all of those concerned Davidson
students, I want you to reflect upon one
thing. As you finish your years at Davidson
and progress into the world, remember that
there will never be unity among the citizens
of America until there is equality for EV-
ERYONE.

Craig.Ihle.‘97.... .
