THE DAVIDSONIAN

NE

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993 3

Students: "Where is :voicemail?"

By Katherine Hash

Anxious students, faculty, and college
personnel may be reassured that the long
awaited campus-wide computerized voice
processing system, “voice mail,” is indeed
coming.

Administrative Services originally pro-
jected that installation of the voice mail
system would be completed while students
were off campus during Fall Break, October
15-19. The process, however, proved to be
more time consuming than expected.

The completion date has beenmoved to
November 15.

Mr. Bob Stephenson, Director of Ad-
ministrative Services, points to two factors
which have delayed the installation of the
_ System. The process of setting up individual
mail boxes in the computer for each user, a
task which Administrative Services is tack-
ling, is proving to be very time consuming.

An initial greeting must also be re-
corded for each box. In order to have the
desired human voices rather than computer-
ized ones on the greeting, Administrative
Services has to find and train student volun-
teers willing to record these greetings in
their spare time.

According to Stephenson, the plan for
installation in student housing is based on
seniority. Installation was completed in
Duke on October 20 and in all of the Senior
Apartments on October 28. Lingle Manor
and the Patterson Court House apartments
were completed at the end of last week.

Installation will continue in the follow-
ing order: Watts, Cannon, and Sentelle;

Irwin, Knox, and Akers; Belk; and finally,

Richardson and Little.
All systems should be up and running

by November 15.

The campus administrative offices are
just as eager as students to get their systems
installed, and Administrative Services is
working hard to accommodate them as well.

Institutional Advancement was com-
pleted on October 20 with Computer Ser-
vices following shortly after. The Admis-
sions and Financial Aid office will be in-
stalled this week along with the NCAA
Soccer tournament ticket and information
line. Faculty offices are next on the list.

Initial student reaction to the new sys-
tem has been a combination of excitement,
intimidation, and confusion.

Sophomore Beth Lindsay admits to
having shied away from the thick user’s
manual in the beginning; however, she, like
most, soon realized that the basic answering
machine type functions--sending and re-
ceiving messages--could be learned in less
than ten minutes.

Kristi Kops, F-crew co-coordinator, is
not yet on the system but is looking forward
to being able to record one message and
send it simultaneously to all F-crew mem-
bers. All students have access to this capa-
bility of creating a “distribution list” of upto
ten names.

Other favorite features include: the
ability to send and retrieve messages from
any on or off campus phone, the “future.
delivery” option which allows messages to
be recorded and sent at a predetermined date
in the future, and “call confirmation” which
instructs the system to inform the sender
when a message has been heard.

_ Despite the variety of options and capa-
bilities available with the new system, some

WS

. Photo courtesy of Octel
The office pretty boy on the cover of
the Voicemail instruction manual may
be familiar with the system, but many
Davidson students are still in the dark.
Most students' phones still have not
been connected to the service. Many
who have, though, lament the loss of
the old fashioned answering machine.

students are holding out.

Senior Towner Blackstock has chosen
to bypass the voice mail system by setting
his answering machine to pick up before the
system. Blackstock cites his recent pur-
chase of a new answering machine, his lack
of motivation to learn a new system, and his
attachment to “the blinking red light” as
reasons for his decision.

Those students who are considering
this option are encouraged to go ahead and
set up their boxes once they are installed and
use the basic features until they have a
chance to explore other options.

They are also reminded that a comput-
erized voice provides instructions which
make the system easy to learn. Administra-
tive Services advises students not to allow
their preconceptions to turn them away.

New apartment will drastically affect.the lottery.system

From the staff.
Fancy Dress?

An idea for a
campus-wide event

By Mandy Curtis &
Rachel Newcomb

A recent article in The Davidsonian
Stressed that many students are unhappy
with the exclusiveness of the three main date
functions: Homecoming, Midwinters, and
Spring Frolics. :

Inevitably, the weekends end up being
fraternity oriented; these occasions are closed
to independents as well as women who are
not invited. Despite the Union’s futile at-
tempts to organize “campus-wide” activi-
ties, there is nothing that brings the entire
campus together.

The article also pointed out that when
women’s houses host date functions, they
are on separate, isolated nights. It seems
ironic that on a campus that aims to stress
inclusiveness, these events defy any attempt
to create a sense of community.

By community, we mean everyone-- all
eating houses, fraternities, the Black Stu-
dent Coalition, independents, and faculty.

Washington & Lee, a school similar to
Davidson in size and student body composi-
tion, carries on a tradition called “Fancy
Dress Ball.” Every year in March, the entire
campus comes together for a week-long
celebration that includes open band parties,
a concert, an afternoon clam bake, sorority

dinners, fraternity cocktail parties, and a
formal ball. It is good chance for everybody
to get together despite individual affilia-
tions.

We propose changing one of the week-

By Susan Warren _

Lottery processes will
change this coming year due to
the new senior apartments.

The new building will have
18 new suites, accommodating
90 students. The building will
have 5 bedrooms per suite in-
stead of the traditional 4. The
change in the style of building
occurred because the cost of
building an apartment with less
than 5 bedrooms was too expen-
Sive.

With this new building, a

new phase needs to be added to
the lottery process. Residence
Life’s Richard Terry spoke to
the SGA on Tuesday night with
his proposal for the new lottery
process.

The new part of the lottery
will consist of a new primary
phase. Groups of five will apply
for an apartment first. The “5-
person” apartments will be as-
signed, with at least two weeks
to spare before groups of 4 ap-
ply foran apartment. Residence
Life hopes the two weeks be-

tween the two phases will be
sufficient for the regrouping of
the five person groups, for the
group must decide which indi- _
vidual will be dropped, and the
“dropped individual” will have ©
to find another group to join.
Concerns have been ex-
pressed about the traumatic ex-
perience the “dropped” indi-
vidual will have to go through.
Terry agreed that though the in-
dividual may notbe happy, over-

_all 90 more people have apart-

ments and therefore there will

be “many more happier folks.”

Due to the new phase, the
loltery will have to start even
earlier this year, probably in mid-
February. Other than the new

phase, the lottery process has

undergone minor changes.

Requests for off-campus
housing will be allotted by lot-
tery instead of the first come-
first serve basis that has pre-
vailed in the past. Students will
no longer be able to retain their
rooms, due to the vast differ-
ences in housing.

_ Student forum to discuss American foreign policy & problems

By Eric Collings
Where was everyone at 5
p.m. on either Thursday, Octo-
ber 14 or Thursday, October 28?
They should have been at the
Carolina Inn for the first two
Dean Rusk Program Student

Forums.
Sponsored by the Student
Advisory Committee of the Dean
Rusk Program, these open dis-
cussions on Somalia and

NAFTA began a series of bi-
monthly student led gatherings
which will seek to heighten cam-
pus awareness and supplement
general knowledge about cur-
rent international topics.

Led by Mike Savona, the
firstmeeting examined the trans-
formation of the goals of the
United States’ intervention in
Somalia from “humanitarian
aid” under George Bush to “na-

The Aavidsonian

News Editor
Mandy Curtis

Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston,
Mary McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Katherine Hash, Jay Jennings,
Krisy Ford, Ashlyn Dannelly, Martha Knight, Meg Wolff,
Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary Clare
Jalonick, Christy Block, Shaye Benton, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy
Devane, Ross Sloop, Towner Blackstock -

tion building” under President
Clinton.

Students debated the neces-
sity of continued United States
presence, questioned the effec-
tiveness of the United Nations’
role, and identified the need for:
a concrete, well defined vision
for United States foreign policy.

The NAFTA forum, guided
by Tim Ogden, Jennifer Reid,
and Saad Gul, explored the mer-
its and deficiencies of four dis-
tinct perspectives: 1) the anti-
NAFTA stance espoused by the
unlikely coalition of Ross Perot,
Richard Gephardt, Jesse Jack-
son, andthe unions, 2) U.S. Trade
Representative Mickey Kantor's
pro-free trade argument, 3) the
imperialist viewpoint that the
United States wishes to manipu-
late NAFTA to dominate
Mexico, and 4) the economists’
considerations.

Also considered were the
importance of NAFTA to the

stalled Uruguay Round of the
General Agreement on Trade
and Tariffs, the worldwide
movement towards trade blocks,
and the impact of the election in
Canada of the Liberal Party of
Jean Chretien upon the future of
NAFTA.

The Dean Rusk SAC hopes
that the relaxed atmosphere of
these meetings, devoid of the
formality of professor initiated
forums or lectures, will encour-
age all students to attend, ask
questions freely, and voice their
opinions without inhibition.

The forums primarily in-
tend to clarify and simplify the
vast complexities of today’s in-
ternational scene by correcting
common misconceptions and
identifying key issues and play-
ers.

The forums will also ex-
plore broader themes such as
“What satisfies a national inter-
est?” and “Whatis the role of the
United States?”

ends, ideally Midwinters, to an event that
“TVOIvESs everyore.

With the mental and monetary coopera-
tion of all the social organizations, we could
create a weekend that would define the
Davidson community. On this weekend,
students wouldn’tjust be a part of something
that is less than the whole. Women could
invite men, or men could invite women.
Previous tothis weekend, acommittee would
be created specifically for the purpose of
organization.

This committee would include mem-
bers from every social group oncampus, and
would plan the theme and arrange the
weekend’s events.

Tickets could besold which would cover
souvenirs such as t-shirts, posters, shot
glasses, cups, etc. The proceeds from the
ticket sales and the collective contributions
from individual social organizations would
go toward music, decorations and bever-
ages.

Envision this: Thursday night, a tradi-
tional ladies’ lock-in for all the women on
campus that opens up to the men at eleven.
On Friday night, a school-wide formal in
either Johnston Gym or Baker. Saturday
afternoon, there could be some sort of cam-
pus celebration with live music and food in
the middle of Patterson Court.

Saturday night, a sweet band, capping
the weekend off with open parties. Cocktail
parties and dinners would be left up to indi-
vidual groups.

It is unfortunate that we have not been
able to find activities that we can work on
and experience together.

We are not offering that all three big
weekends need to be changed; we are just
suggesting making one an all-inclusive ac-
tivity. Certainly this is something that
Davidson could use. A social system domi-
nated by an exclusive group needs change
and we think that this could lead to one.

This would depend on the student body
acting together for once.

Think about it.
