OPINIONS

8

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993

“Each fall some 13. million
students.,.enroll in American colleges..:By
the time that these students graduate, very
few colleges have met their need for all-
round development. Instead, by precept and
example, universities have taught them that
‘all rules are unjust’ and ‘all preferences are
principled;’ that justice is simply the will of
the stronger party; that standards and values
are arbitrary. Although university leaders
speak of the self-evident virtues of diver-
sity, it is not at all obvious why it is neces-
sary to a first-rate education.”

-from Illiberal Education by Dinesh”

D’souza

Dittos, Dinesh.

The national trend in “higher” educa-
tion that declares the deep need for “diver-
sity” and multiculturalism has hit at
Davidson. Over the past few years, the call
for “diversity” has been growing here at a
‘fair rate.

Some of the measures have been toler-
able, such as the core requirement of “cul-
tural diversity.” Most of these classes are
non-politicized, serious studies ofnon-West-
ern civilizations; they enhance the educa-

Greg Garrison

Don't put a capital i in liberal arts.

tional experience of students who desire a
liberal arts education (just in case any of you
wondered, the liberal here is derived from
liberalis, referring to persons who have been
liberated--it has nothing to do with the So-
cialist, FDR-worshipping political leaders
or their cronies). An objective view of
another culture is a good mean toward the
end of a liberal (small “I”) education, and a
liberal (small “1”) education is the peeny
end of this institution.

Near the end of last year, and again on
October 26, the political powers of the stu-
dent body, undersomewhat spurious leader-
ship, effectively declared war on the very
foundation upon which Davidson College is
built, Christianity and Christian leadership.
Last year, when the SGA asked for a change
in the Statement of Purpose, this was just a
step toward the goal of Liberal (not a small
“1”) education.

The SGA resolution on October 26,
which calls for a change in the Trustee

requirements, is a blatant attempt to Liberal-
ize Davidson further. The Trustees are one
of the only powerful Conservative Christian
elements remaining at Davidson to balance
the trend toward pure Liberalism and a fla-
grantly political college agenda.

In addition, one.cannot forget that
Davidson was founded upon Christian prin-
ciples and remains affiliated with the Pres-
byterian Church. Thatis one of the elements
of the college that separates it from many.
other schools. It also gives ita static, unified
purpose toward which to strive. Educa-
tional trends (such as the one mentioned in

the above quote) change, but this purpose ~

will not; it will stand, a beacon through time.

- If I were to amend the policy at all, it
would be changed to the following: “All
persons elected as Trustees shall be active
members of a Christian church or Jewish
synagogue.” My reason for this is that
Judaism is the religion from which Chris-
tianity sprung. They believe in the same

God, and they hold the same morals, ideals,
and ethics; as the forerunners of Christian-
ity, their insights would be greatly helpful in
coming to Christian decisions in keeping
with the ideals of the college.

SGA Vice-President Alice Spivey was
one of three who voted against the resolu-
tion. When I asked her why, she gave me the
following statement:

“I came to Davidson knowing that it is
a Christian school and not is totally secular
one where ‘anything goes.’ Christianity is
one of the main tenets upon which Davidson
was founded, and there are some traditions
which are too important to abandon.
Davidson is a private Christian school and
does not have to embrace the ‘p.c.’ ideals of
a public school.”

Why are people asking that the policy
be changed? Ask anyone who voted for the
measure, and they will tell you that it is to be
fair to the non-church-attending students,
who will, upon graduation, become alumni.
This primarily emotional argumentis highly
fallacious--the Trustees should represent the

See Garrison on page 9

- Alex Crumbley
Ignore the left

wing nuts.

To all of the high school seniors who
-are considering Davidson College for their
riext four years, I would like to say a few
_isvords, I know Davidson has its drawbacks,
like offensive fraternity flyers and nudity on
stage and a student government that’s an-
tagonistic toward Christianity, but I would
like to ask you toignore those left-wing nuts
for a minute and hear what Davidson’s re-
ally all about—false progress.

You see, we at Davidson really want to
bea national institution like other schools up
North with which we compete in the college
-, fahkings. So we make a BSC and a COMA
~ and a FLAG, and they look great on

Davidson’s resume when the U.S. News
rankers look atus in comparison to Williams
and Amherst.

With seemingly the same mindset and
environment as those schools, and our loca-
tion in the lovely South where it’s eighty
degrees in November, Davidson is hard to
beat as a college choice. But don’t be
fooled! We don’t really believe all that
intellectual mess about inclusiveness and
mind-broadening and art, and whatever else
we say.we believe in. We’re proud to have
alumni write in and say that Equus, our
offensive mainstage production, was little
more than an unnecessary display of nudity.

You see, we try not to cross the line into
the artsy-fartsy-pansy way of thinking that
those Northern schools promote. ‘In order to

stay P.C., we repress 9 ity so much
here that our lu t éven handle a
little nudity on stage you know what?
We like it that way!

Also, we like to invite people from all
over the globe to come here and study. This
helps our international awareness statistic,
especially because the people we invite here
are godless heathens who don’t even love
Jesus. And since they aren’t Christian, of
course, they can’t make decisions for the
good of a Presbyterian.school, so there’s no
way we would let them be Trustees. Yep,
that means we would never even let Jesus on
our board of Trustees (he was a Jew, wasn’t
he?)

Oh, and how could I forget our terrify-
ing fraternity flyers? Last week, one of the
Greek monsters put a flyer around campus
that made fun of a very serious topic around
here, our phone books. In case you didn’t
know, the cover of Davidson phone book is
a very. good indicator of the ideological

Now, See. .  theds just <edl,

You pass AREA, Youre peu have all Has bad vhs.
BUAK, BLAH BLAH BLAH ...

‘cange, Hub sh&S dest unrk

mary ee
Were me)

climate of the college. This year, we’re
oppressing women. Last year, itwas Marilyn
Ambroise, but I think she transferred to
Williams, so we had to pick on someone
else.

SPE made a flyer for a party that was a
spoof of the controversy surrounding the
babe on the cover of the. phone book, and, of
course, no one got the joke. We try to recruit
students whoare soP.C. that they can’teven
go to the bathroom without being offended.
And we seem to have succeeded.

So, class of 1998, please understand
that all those silly women’s issues commit-
tees and minority affairs groups are just a
front for a college with some people so
caught up in their religions, whether it’s the
Christian religion, or the P.C. movement
(almost a religion to some), that they can’t
appreciate what each other has to offer.

So please come here. We promise we'll

stamp out the offensive theater productions,
even if they are the best Davidson’s ever
had, and we’ll keep those heathens off the
Trustee board, too. Yes, sir! There’s more
to the South than just pretty weather, there’s
good old-fashioned backwardness. Don’t
miss out on your chance tocome here and be
chastised for trying to broaden your mind!

Will boys be boys (or men) ?

Flyer continued from page 7

women as sexual objects is not aes to
this statistic.

Didthe Eseuied lnckeinopaet fcr wonien?
Or did they not see the connection between
respect and portrayal? Why was the flyer
put up without the approval of the co-spon-
soring women’s houses but with their names?
I cannot know, and I will not speculate. The
other, (in my opinion) more appalling possi-
bility is that the creators of the flyer knew
exactly what they were communicating.

What are the implications of posting a
party flyer featuring a half-naked woman
only in men’s bathroom stalls? I leave it to
the reader to continue this line of reasoning.

- Perhaps even more disturbing than the pos-

sibility that a few men created this sexist and
offensive flyer is the fact that the flyers
stayed up for days. Hundreds of caring,
intelligent, thoughtful men use the bath-
rooms in their dorms each and every day,
some of whom I know, care about, and trust.
Why did the flyers not come down?

Was it fear of destroying property, hesi-
tancy to take a stand, or just lack of thought

about the issues at stake? Or does some-
thing happen to the brain when the pants are
down? (The Dean Rusk Program, for one,
seems to think not).

This would be a good time for the “boys
will be boys” (“men will be men?”) line of
rationale. With apologies to those who
think otherwise, I simply cannot accept this
reasoning because it ignores the intelligence
and awareness of too many men and side-
steps the issue of personal accountability.

I don’t know exactly why the flyers
were posted, why they stayed up so long, or
what the intentions were. I do know that
regardless of the intent, those flyers join a
chorus of cultural messages by which we are
affected in more ways than we know. Idon’t
know who was responsible, and I hope that
no apology will rise from semi-sincere re-
gret. Ido hope, and demand, that this never
happens again on Davidson’s campus.

If we say that we are about “mutual trust
and respect,” we must live with that mutual-
ity and respect constantly in mind or we risk
nothing less than our integrity.

Sincerely,

Letitia M. Campbell 796
