SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 12, 1993

Baseball Hangs Tough Against 8th Ranked Georgia Tech

By Will Cobb

The Davidson baseball team
bounced back from a four game
losing streak to play some of its
best baseball. Despite suffering two
lopsided loses (6-1 and 9-0) to
East Tennessee State, the ‘Cats
returned the following day to cap-
ture the third and final game of the
series by piling up 16 hits in a 7-3
victory.

Chris Carrigan (3-3) took the
win while giving up only one walk
through 90 pitches. “Chris pitched
about as well as he has all season,”
said Coach Dick Cooke. Clay Hall
worked the last 1 2/3 innings to
pick up his third save of the year.
Freshman Jeff Andrews led the

Men's Track

Takes Huge
Strides
to Records

By Peter Hurtado

Davidson now has a “‘Fab-5”
of its own. The men’s track and
ficld team had its finest day in
recent memory this past Friday:at
the Duke Invitational, as Ian
Stewart, David Kerns, Peter
Hurtado, Erik McMichael, arid
Duncan Spears added to the
school’s rich track history.

The distance medley relay
squad of Hurtado, Spears,
McMichael, and Kerns smashed a
28-year-old school record by a huge
margin of 12 seconds, placing
eighth overall at 10:10.3. Hurtado
paced the Wildcats with a 1200m
time of 3:05.6 (six seconds faster
than his personal best); Spears took
the baton and hammered an
unbeleiveable 48.6 400m split, al-
most two seconds better than his
best. McMichael then kept. the
‘Cats in position with the best 800m
(1:57.2) split of his career, and
then the three stood in amazement
as Kems brought the record home
with a lightning mile of 4:18.6. An
excited but bewildered Coach Gary
Andrew called the race “the finest
relay effort, of any distance, ever
at Davidson college.”

Thirty minutes later, Stewart
stole the show. Once again,
Davidson’s fans stood in amaze-
ment as Stewart went out fast and
held the grueling pace (9:40 2-
mile) to run an unbelieveable
5000m time of 15:11.7. This is the
third fastest ever by a Davidson
athlete, and certainly ranks Stewart
among the best distance runners
ever produced by Davidson.

The phenomenal perfor-
mances did not end on Friday. Joe
Beachclockeda personal best time
of 2:01.8 in the 800m, while Erik
McMichael also recorded a PR in
the 1500m at 4:08.7. Spears con-
tinued the streak with his best400m
hurdle effort of the season at 55.1,
nearly tops inthe conference. Rob
King had a hammer throw of 108’,
while Lee Sutton (41' 11") and
freshman Bo Bartholomew (39'9")
geared up for the conference meet.

offense by going 3 for 4, bringing
his average to .371 on the season
while Tim Kerns tacked on two
more RBIs while going 2 for 4 on
the afternoon. This victory upped
the team’s conference record to 4-
7, and gave the team needed confi-
dence going into their next game
versus Georgia Tech.

The Cat’s then traveled to At-
lanta to face the number eighth
ranked Georgia Tech. This team
was by far the toughest they had
faced all year long, but that did not
prevent Davidson from producing
one of its most solid performances
of the season. Davidson jumped
on Tech quick in the first inning by
going up 3-0. The 'Cats were able

to hold this lead until the sixth
inning, when Tech captured a 4-3
lead. Davidson answered in the
seventh, tying the game at four
when Kerns drove in Bender.
Unfortunately, Tech went up 5-4
in the bottom of the seventh and
added an insurance run in the eighth
to leave the game’s final score as a
6-4 loss. Sophomore Mills Arial
was given the start and he deliv-
ered.

Arial pitched five innings
while giving up only three runs,
oneof which was left on base when
he left the game, while striking out
the highest rated catcher in college
baseball. For the offense Kerns led
the team, going 3 for 4 with two

doubles and two RBIs. Bender, the
school's all-time at-bat leader, went
2 for 5 as catcher Brett Borretti
went 1 for 2 with an RBI double.
Though it was a loss, it was a great
all around team effort.

The team went back to South-
em Conference action; facing a

solid Furman bailclub last week- _

end on the road. On Saturday, the
‘Cats pulled off their first double-
header sweep of the season by de-
feating Furman 11-7 and 7-5. Mac
Chapman picked up his first two
victories on the mound for the sea-
son by taking both wins. In the
first game, Hall led the attack with
aperfect game at the plate, going 4
for 4 with three RBIs. Bender took

abigstepcloser tothe school record
for hits by going 4 for 5 while
Borretti made another solid per-
formance with 3 for 5 hitting. In
the second game, Chapman helped
himself out at the plate as well by
cranking the ball over the fence for
atwo run homer that served as the
game winner. Brett Borretti had
two home runs of his own while
going 3 for 4 at the plate, hitting
.667 for the day.

These two victories bring the
team’s record to 11-19 on the sea-
son with a 6-7 conference record.
The ‘Cats played the final game of
the series yesterday and face Wake
Forest at home on Tuesday at 3:00
and Duke at home on Friday.

Number one senior
has led team selflessly
last four seasons

By Brannon Buck

If you know Albie Varoski off the tennis
court, then you probably have an image in
your mind of a light-hearted, Guns ‘n Roses
listening, fun-loving, kind of guy. Butif you
take time to watch him in a Davidson College
tennis match, where he has represented the
school for three years as the number one
singles player, then your image of Albie sud-
denly changes a bit. When Albie steps on a
tennis court he discards the light-heartedness
and takes on the look of a tough minded,
never-say-die competitor. To his teammates
and coach, this combination results in a cap-
tain who leads by example and gives every-
thing for the sake of the team.

This role as selfless leader is one that

Davidson. When asked about his number one
player, Coach Jeff Frank points out the im-
provement that has characterized Albie’s
game, both physically and mentally, since his
arrival as a freshman. Great ground strokes
and quick foot-speed, which allow him to
wear-down opponents, have always been the
trademark of Albie’s game. But with a work
ethic that Coach Frank refers to as one of the
besthe has ever seen, Albie has improved his
volleys and his mental toughness to the point

Albie has grown into over his four years at” ”

Albie Varoski Nears End of Outstanding Career

where he is comfortable playing number one
and is competing with the best players in the
nation.

What is remarkable about Albie’s career
is not his win-loss record, but rather his
consistency day in and day out and his ability
to avoid the upset. He simply does not lose to
lesser players. And all the while, he has come
up with important wins when the team has
needed them.

Albie entered the ‘Singles line-up at the
number two position his freshman year where
he enjoyed a strong season defeating such
powerhouses as North Carolina, Clemson,
and Wake Forest. Since then he has played at
number one singles and at various positions in
doubles. His career dual-match record in
singles stands at64-55 whilehiscareerdoubles
record is 63-27.

When asked to ponder his own game,
Albie says that intense motivation and hard
work have been essential to his success. Any-
one who has seen Albie lose a tight match
knows how much he despises losing, and this
intense aversion has served as his motivation
to practice more and play better. “If there is
one thing that drives me,” says Albie “‘it is that
Thate tolose...even more than] love to win.”

But motivation can Come in many ways,

and for Albie it started during the recruiting ,

process. One of the things he takes most pride
in is beating players from schools where the
coaches refused to recruit him. Albie tells of
writing to the coaches at Furman, Wake For-
est, and William and Mary in high school. But

Photo by Casey ogers

Albin Varoski '93

none of them wrote him back or returned his
phone calls. “Those are the schools I love to
beat,” says Albie. For the record, he has wins
over all of them, and is 5-2 against Furman.
Albie gives credit to Coach Frank for recog-
nizing his ability when everyone else was
passing him up. “I wouldn’t be here if it
weren’t for Coach Frank.”

This season has been a little different

See Albie on page 15

Men's Tennis Earns Victories in Tennessee

By Brannon Buck

In two hard fought Southern
Conference matches, Coach Frank
and his team earned victories over
Tenn-Chatt and East Tennessee
State. These two wins improved
the Wildcats’ record to 14-4, with
four matches remaining on the
schedule. Davidson defeated UTC
on Friday by a score of 6-1. The
Wildcats started the match by win-
ning all three doubles to earn, what
can be, acrucial point if the singles
are even.

In the singles, Dan Grinnan
and Dave Tonidandel turned in
theircustomary solid performances
which have almost become the
backbone of the team. Their con-
sistency and ability to win day in
and day out allow the other players
on the team to relax and play bet-
ter. That is exactly what happened

on Friday, as Albie Varoski, Holt ©

Vaughan, and David Jespersen,

followed the lead of the Grinnan-
Tonidandel tandem to win five of
the six singles matches. Vaughan
played a particularly outstanding
match atnumber two, coming from
down 4-5 in the first set to posta 7-
5,6-3 victory.

On Saturday the Wildcats
made the three-and-a-half hour trek
to ETSU in hopes of defeating the
reigning conference champion.
The task was not an easy one as the
Buccaneers boast the 13th ranked

’ player in the nation as well as the

worst facilities of any school in the
conference. Davidson did eke out
a tight 4-3 win.

In the doubles, Jespersen and
Vaughan won at number two and
Varoski and Chris Parker won at
number three to pick-up what
turned out to be a very crucial
point. Then Varoski matched up
against 13th ranked Yaser Zaatini,
who recently defeated the number

MEN'S TENNIS

Davidson 6, UTC 1:

Johns 8-2.
Davidson 4, ETSU 3

4.

Singles: Albie Varoski(D) d. Jason Todd 6-1,6-3; Holt Vaughan(D) d. Paul
Tumer 7-5,6-3; Rolando Apablaza (UTC) d. Russell Briggs 6-3,6-3; David
Jespersen(D) d. James Murungweni 6-3,6-3; Dan Grinnan(D) d. Nick Johns
6-2,6-4; Dave Tonidandel(D) d. David Van Ness 6-3,6-4.

Doubles: Briggs-Ryan Harper(D) d. Todd-Turner 8-3; Jespersen- -Vaughan(D)
d. Murungweni-Van Ness 9-8(7-3); Varoski-Chris Parker(D) d. Apablaza-

Singles: Yaser Zaatini(ETSU) d. Varoski 6-3,6-1; Marek Zejda(ETSU) d.
Vaughan 6-4, 6-7(7-1),7-5; Briggs(D) d. Luis Gonzalez 6-1,6-2; Gustavo
Perziano(ETSU) d. Jespersen 6-4,7-5; Grinnan(D) d. Bryant Collins 6-3,6-1;
Tonidandel(D) d. Antonio Serrute 7-6(7-2),6-3.

Doubles: Zaatini-Gonzalez(ETSU) d. Briggs-Harper 8-6; Jespersen-
Vaughan(D) d. Perziano-Serrute 8-6; Varoski-Parker(D) d. Collins-Zejda 8-

one ranked player, and provided a
competitive match, losing 6-3, 6-
1, Atnumber three, Russell Briggs
broke out of a minor slump and
played exceptionally well to de-

feat Luis Gonzalez 6-1,6-2. And
true to their usual form, Grinnan
and Tonidandel posted strong vic-
tories at the number five and six
positions.
