10

THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

Greg Garrison

Christmas in America is X-mas.

Once again, December has rolled
around, and folks around the land prepare
for the holiday season. They get a tree (or
unpack an artificial one), dust off their orna-
ments, and send out Christmas cards.

The holiday that dominates the land-
scape is not, however, Christmas, Rather, it
is X-mas, the bold American creation that
reduces grandeur to a level almost unworthy
of mention.

Christmas is adistinct holiday. Whether
everyone likes it or not, Christmas has a
distinct meaning, reflected in its very name.

One need only give acursory look to the
word Christmas, and its meaning is self-
evident. The first half of the word is Christ,
a word with undenjable meaning in the
Judeo-Christian tradition.

It means the Messiah, the Savior, the
Way, the Truth, the Life. Christ Jesus was,
according to himself, the Son of God, and if
what he said was true, only he could bridge
the gap between man and God.

This should have an enormous impact
on the way people view Christmas. It is not
a meaningless, safe, or sedate holiday, but
one that declares itself to be. the very source
of Truth. By its very name, it calls for
change. It calls for a radical decision to
accept or reject the one whose birthday is
celebrated.

Weare celebrating the most fascinating
birthday in history. This day is acommemo-
ration of a baby born with the distinct pur-
pose of dying, one whose cradle existed so
that his grave might.

Contrast this with the holiday celebrated
today. Contrast the very word Christmas
with the word X-mas. The latter is far more
fitting with our culture. We do not celebrate
Christmas. We do not celebrate Jesus or his
birth. We do not celebrate a dirty manger,
but an overblown culture.

No, we celebrate X-mas.

Our holiday is not about God, but what-

_ever we choose individually. It is about X,

a variable which is replaced by whatever
false Gods we worship, especially the grand
Baal of old, money.

Our holiday is driven by money and the
exchange thereof, the Great American Party
which ravishes the land and leaves our souls
empty.

We talk-about holiday cheer and the.
brotherhood of man, and at the same time,
we focus our attention on what we’re getting
or what we’re giving, not on the gift of love
and self-sacrifice that was given two thou-
sand years ago.

When all is gone and the gifts have
gotten old, we are no better off. The cultural
orgy leavesus only hungry for more and still
thirsty for the water that quenches eternally.

When we call on X, this is inevitable. X
is everything and nothing, and in the end, it
will do us no good. A variable which is
defined by us will always be empty.

An answer that is contingent upon our
wills can never last. This points to a need for
an absolute which is pre-existing, self-suffi-
cient, and unchanging. A true answer must
already exist--all we can do is discover it.

Is X the answer, or is Christ?

Cartoonists & Writers Syndicate

IT CNSTITUIES

| SAY

A Hostile
RK ENVRNMENT!

For God's sake, make a difference and touch somebody

X-mas continued from page 8

their beliefs, they have more reason to be
happy than anyone).

If Christmas is special, then it has to be
able to touch me, move me, forever. I’ve
had enough of momentary highs. If Christ-
mas isn’t the kind of thing that can really add
to my life, well, then I don’t have time for it.
I’ve got lots of exams and papers and quite
frankly I don’t have time to ride any roller
coasters. Smelling the roses is nice, but if
they don’t change me, well, what good are

they? What good does it do to see George
Bailey and Charlie Brown year after year
after year and never live your life any differ-
ently? ;

My money is on the depressed folk. I
think they see something. I think they see
how life is and see how it should be and the
discrepancy is everything. The discrep-
ancy is crappy conversations, professional
friendships, materialist living, relieving
roller coaster, and a lot of coldness with no
real joy or fulfillment.

Except I don’t totally agree. The de-

pressed folk think it has to go that way, no
real hope for any warmth, but I say it can go
different.

The up-side is: we can all make Christ-
masasignificant event. We could use alittle
Christmas, a little togetherness. So, if what
I’ve said makes sense, if you see yourself
nodding here or there try your hardest to
make it worthwhile. Don’t go along in the
same, scared, untrusting, and worn out paths.
Try to reach out, expose yourself, take risks.
Let Christmas make a difference. For God’s
sake, touch somebody.

Take a nap during
your break.

The Davidsonian. We may
not be funny, but we think
we are.

Caroling invades your sanctity

Ramsay continued from page 9

business what Christmas means to me, but
since personal diaries are now public do-
main, we’ll forge ahead.

Every year, despite what has happened
to me, whether it has been a good year or a
bad one, I am always impressed by Christ-
mas. I am fascinated by the fact that people
voluntarily, once a year, transform their
homes into the epitome of gauche—a show-
case for the World of Gaudy Abodes.

But that is all part of the season, as is
caroling. Only with caroling, they come to
your home. At least the blinking lights and
big plastic reindeer are on someone else’s
property. Caroling, however, invades your
sanctity, your sanity even. How do you
respond to a large group of strange people
singing off-key at your doorstep? Give
money? Pull out the rifle?

I just laugh and give them cocoa. I am
impressed by the spirit of Christmas, to be a
bit of a cliche. People giving one another
gifts simply because of the time. Families
who barely have enough money to provide
Christmas for themselves giving to the Sal-
vation Army collectors that stand tirelessly
on street corners in those ridiculous outfits.
The volunteers in homeless shelters and in
hospitals. It is hard to believe so many
suicides occur during this time. Things may
be bleak, but consider the hopelessly tacky
houses dotting the neighborhoods.

Ifyou look at one long enough—if you
look at those motionless reindeer and the
sleigh they pull, with the blinking colors
reflecting off their plastic pelts and the big
smile on the face of the man who leads
them—you can see it all move, just a little,
and you remember what this season is about.

But that, of course, is your business.

Chris Edmonston

Am [a racist?

Am I a racist? I have often pondered
this question, and every time I have given
the proper amount of mind power to come
up with an appropriate and correct answer, I
have left the exercise disappointed in my-
self. To put it simply, the latter half of my
life has been dedicated to “finding” me. A
part of the “me” that I wish to cultivate is one
that cannot and will not tolerate bigotry.

The day I decided to change is one that
I won’t ever forget. I had many. “black”
friends and several friends who were Asian.
And yet, despite our friendships, I had never
really thought about the equal departure that
we (as friends) were making.

When you decide to have friends of
different races, cultures, or creeds, you, as a
human, are making a departure: a departure
from human history and tradition. We are a
racist species. We huddle around those who
are like ourselves. All are afraid of the other
in some capacity. This fear is bred due toa
lack of understanding. Paradoxically, we
cannot understand unless we take a stand in
the face of our own fear. .

How did I feel when confronted one
day in May of 1990? I felt afraid. My
girlfriend, my sister, and I decided to go to
the water park back home. One momentstill
haunts me as I looked around to discover
that we were the only “white” people in the
pool. A group of children from an all black
church was there that day as well and they
were swimming all around us.

Never before had the tables been turned
on me in such a dramatic way. I was scared.
Scared only because they were different
from me. I am embarrassed to admit this,
and I have since tried each day not only to
stamp this memory out, but'to make sure I
am never scared that way again. Was Ia
racist that day? I felt like one.

This feeling has left me with a bitter
taste. I realized that no child is born afraid.
We are not born racist. Rather, we learn it
through fear. Racism is above all, I believe,
a fear. Can’t a child, who for some reason
learns to fear differences and different
people, be taught to appreciate them?

When I came to Davidson, I worked
with the Love of Learning program. The
experience I had during my twomonths with
the program taught me to appreciate the
African-American tradition in this nation.

Because of my experience, though, I
briefly forgot about racism, making the ill-
advised assumption that everyone thought
like me. In my mind, everyone was as open
to differences and as willing to experience
the “new” asI was. I have since found out
that I was wrong. I was one of only six or
seven “white” people working with a group
of overachieving “black” students. I was
completely immersed in an alternative cul-
ture. Since then, I have come to realize that
far too few of my race have ever made an
effort to understand or experience like I had.

Am Ia racist? I know I am not the best
writer in the world. I know I will never be a
fast runner. And now after many trying
moments and struggles, I know that Iam not
an overt racist. And yet I live in a society
where black-on-black violence is a lead
story on the news every night. On MTV, I
hear Snoop Dog and Dr. Dre rapping about
the virtues of gangsta life and the power of
their weapons. Try as I might to resist, I
believe this “conditioning” has affected the
way that I feel and how I act. I know that
these are not accurate representations of
African-American culture, but they prey on
the fear that I was raised with. No one in'my
life ever told me ‘to fear “blacks.” It was. an
unwritten rule. And now, I am trying to
stamp this legacy out of my life. ‘This is'a
battle I intend to win, and one that I believe,
We as a species, should all begin to fight.

