THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1993 7

Che Bavidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

Drawing the line

Each year The Davidsonian runs into the problem of publishing opinions pieces that
offend members of the Davidson community. In the past, these writings have sent parents,
administrators, and students alike running for their computers and notebooks to write letters
of complaint.

But each year it happens again. The section seems at times to encourage alcoholism,
blatantly sexual behavior, and complete disavowal of formerly established moral standards.
However, as students, we operate in a culture that is unsure of right and wrong, there are
few distinctions about what is morally correct, and there is even less evidence that as
journalists we should dictate morality.

Our writers must decide these issues for themselves. There is a fine line between
playing the devil’s advocate and simply being offensive. That line becomes less distin-
guished when being offensive is the goal--the aim being to influence in a hardball, in your
face manner.

The writers also face the problem of being members of a youth sub-culture. While age
is not an excuse for our behavior at this point in our lives, the language, ideals, and lifestyles
of Davidson students vary greatly from that Of the rest of the paper's audience. The better
part of that audience is both older and more certain of its moral beliefs, while we are still
deciding. But students also live, as do all people, in a community that is far from even keel
in terms of what is appropriate. One needs look no further than the enormous popularity
and outspoken criticism of radio and TV personality Rush Limbaugh for evidence of the
disparity between what is appropriate what is not.

But our writers' membership in a unique culture with its own developing ideals is one
of the undeniable strengths of the paper. While one issue cannot possibly give the reader
full insight into the workings of the Davidson campus and its students, prolonged exposure
to The Davidsonian gives an unparalleled view of a unique lifestyle.

In our quest for guidelines on this issue, we turned to Press Time, a college level
textbook published by Prentice Hall and designed to teach students the logistics of
journalism.

The book points out that students at schools such as Davidson cry censorship when
administrators direct that certain words or stories not be published. It also goes on to read,
“This raises a fine distinction: Where does reasonable editing stop and unconstitutional
censorship start?” ;

A good question. Our answer comes from an intuitive understanding that specific
terms and ideas will offend. Still, we have decided to limit ourselves in terms of editing
potentially offensive ideas.

Why? We do not wantto limit our writers. We do not believe that it is our job to decide
what is inappropriate on any level except the most basic. You will see no severe language
in The Davidsonian, racism will not scour our pages, and personal attacks will not be
allowed to develop beyond simple disagreements. These are obviously incorrect, but
beyond this, we are poor judges of morality, and we can think of scarce few who should be
placed in a position to dictate others’ ethical values.

Our philosophy sides completely with that of a 1969 Supreme Court decision stating,
“A student may express his opinion on campus, even on controversial subjects...if he does
so without materially and substantially interfering with the requirements of appropriate
discipline.and without colliding with the rights of others.”

This statement, however, is still ambiguous. For that reason, we also agree with the
federal judge in the 1970 case of Eisner v. Stamford: “Student newspapers are valuable
education tools, and also serve to aid the school administrators by providing them with an

insight into student thinking and student problems. They are valuable, peaceful channels
of student protest which should be encouraged...”

LETTERS

Faller enters the "gender war"

To the Editors,
Specifically, this is in
response to last week’s let-
ter, by Frederique
Campagne. She wrote “how
it can suck to be a girl.”

That’s understandable.

Some days being anything
seems to be too much to bear.
However, what I read be-
tween the lines was a cry for
campusprudery, alittlename
calling, and a warning that
Davidson’s girls be on the
watch for all the lions roam-
ing about seeking to devour
them.

It is too callous and un-
true to simply say that girls
labelled “slut” get what they
deserve. However, behind
the cynicism is a faint note
of truth’ that” shouldn't’ be
overlooked. I don’t mean to
suggest that anyone is dirty
or cheap like the name im-
plies. Imean to suggest that
the best method of getting to
know someone might not be
found by going to bed with
some guy first night down.
If anindividual wantsto play
those games, they should
realize possible conse-
quences. Thisis not to coldly

say that women should once
again exercise control where
men should not. That has
not only been said before,
butis silly. It is to say that if
she doesn’t want to be used,
she’d be better off not sleep-
ing with guys who want to
use her. This does not ex-
cuse womanizers.

So, I enter the gender
war. Its history can briefly
besummed upas one gender
dehumanizing the other as
meat and flesh for the tak-
ing. Since then, men and
women have tried to out ex-
ploit each other.

Maybe at one point it
was easy to see who started
the whole mess, but now
there’s so much collateral

“gamage it's become tmpos-

sible to point the finger any-
where.

Frederique’s letter also
touched on the age-old
double standard. Typically,
this is viewed as men do
what they want and women
can’t. And viewed in these
terms, it is no wonder why
people get so riled up.» I'd
like to suggest something
else. Doesn’titseem strange

that everyone’s familiar with
two types of women? One
type is the legendary kind
you bring home to momma,
and the other is the kind you
use. One makes a great wife,
and the other makes a great
date, so says the double stan-
dard. And often, a guy is
accused of trying to change
his date into one of these if
not both. A combination of
both, I think, is what the
media hounds refer to as a
superwoman.

I’dlike tosuggest that it
represents a confusion. So
many people I’ve known
have wanted both a date who
puts out and a “pure” bride,
whatever that means. It
doesn’t make sense to si-

tually exclusive things.

Instead of blaming one
sex or another, it seems to
me more productive to try
and figure out that confu-
sion. A struggle between
opposites? What are the
opposites? Or a result of
living in an age bombarded
with noise? Any takers?

Yours,

Stephen Faller

Support the United Way

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions

the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

expressed in letters to the Editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of|,

To the Davidson
College Community,

Davidson’s effort in
support of the 1993 United
Way Campaign has now be-
gun, under the capable lead-
ership of Dan Boye and
Elouise Carter.

We can all be grateful
to Dan and Elouise for the
service they are rendering in
our behalf, and for their en-
couragementto each of us to
become involved in this
project which provides sup-
port forsomany worthwhile
services in our community.

At Davidson, we have
the privilege of working with
young men and women
whose success in earlier
years of their lives have
brought them tocollege with
bright prospects for the fu-
ture.

As we spend our days
with such wonderful young
people, though, we are in-
creasingly aware ofthe many
childrenin our area who face

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. |

bleak prospects without the
assistance of United Way
agencies. Such programs as
Cities in Schools, Success
by Six, and the Family Sup-
port Center use the gifts
which are directed through
the United Way effort to of-
ferabetter future to children
whose lives would otherwise
be quite limited. Contribu-
tions have not kept pace with
the needs in recent years,
despite the efforts of many
people at Davidson andelse-
where to participate in the
broad benevolent efforts of
the United Way.

If you have donated to
United Way in the past, I
certainly hope you will con-
tinue to do so, and even con-
sider a modest increase to
help meet increasing needs.
If you have not given in re-
cent years, I hope you will
take the time to study the
variety of programs and ser-
vices which United Way sup-
ports. It has been my expe-

rience that the staff and vol-
unteers of the United Way
are ready and willing to re-
spond to any concerns about
allocation of its resources,
and to provide ready alter-
natives for the designation
of gifts to specific causes.

This is one of the few
select causes for which
Davidson College provides
the option of a payroll de-
duction, and there is always
the possibility of allocating
some orall of your contribu-
tion to the agency of your
choosing.

Also, pledges from
Davidson employees living
outside Mecklenburg
County can usually be cred-
itedto your local fund. Sim-
ply indicate those choices
on your pledge card and your
stipulations will be honored.

Thank you for your
careful consideration of this
special request.

Sincerely yours,

John W. Kuykendall
