ae | THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 1, 1993

+ + HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
The pi avinsonian LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILLCOBB-Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost
Ss College Weekly"

Three Unions?

What a ridiculous proposal.

Last week, the consultants from MPC returned to Davidson to announce their findings
and suggest solutions to the problems caused by an anemic social system that breaks the
campus into distinct social circles. What they propose is astounding—three new centers
designed to bring people together and provide facilities adequate for the social lives of 1,500
people.

Location seemed to be the defining factor. One center at a “student crossroads” would
meet social needs; one at a “community crossroads” would offer an outlet for town, faculty,
and student people to mingle; and one “satellite” facility designed for larger activities.

Such a proposal illuminates three very important conclusions.

First, the MPC consultants apparently do not seem to understand what is going on here.
Granted, their proposal did not intend to take finances into consideration, but thé thought
of building three new centers seems, at the least, to have been created by people unaware
of fiscal limitations which restrict the abilities of every college and university in America.
We do not need abstract theories; we need practical solutions.

Second and more important, though, is that Davidson students need help. The fact that
MPCrecommended not one, but three facilities might indicate that we are in three times the
trouble than.we thought. But instead of building three facilities, why don’t we build one
with three times the facilities. Three in one—(it’s a theory that has worked before).

Finally, we have “experts” telling administrators what the student body has been crying
out for so long—we need social opportunities, not rules.

Whenstudents spend too much time on the court, as opposed to studying—they restrict
the number of weekday parties.

When students miss classes or arrive tired and hungover—they make the parties close
earlier in the evening.

When alcohol is abused—they restrict the number and size of containers brought up
the Stairs.

These policies have not only proved controversial, but ineffective. It seems the whole
time, students have only been screaming—”GIVE US SOMETHING ELSE TO DO.”

Weneedanew union that brings the community together and provides social activities
that do the same. Itis as simple as that. If nothing else, the MPC consultants made that point
clear.

Let’s hope those who can make this happen finally listen.

But where?

Here is a chance for the Administration to figure out where to build the new Union.
Remodel Johnston. Leave the basketball court for intramural use and build a second level
that surrounds the court but allows visitors to look down on the court. Paint the place. Build
an outside deck. Make use ofall those little offices. Don’t continue to waste all of that space.

And finally...

Johnetta Cole’s speech at Convocation was well thought out and important to Davidson’s
process of diversifying. Although not all members of the editorial staff agreed with every
idea she embraced, all were impressed with her abilities, intelligence, and passion.

Still, we were left wondering how someone who teaches at an almost exclusively
female, black institution could preach so much diversity. We were also wondering whose
idea it was to invite her, and, more to the point, if that person was looking to push an agenda.
All we know is that SGA President Alden Smith sure had a big smile on his face throughout
Dr. Cole’s presentation.

Io.

od

ye

AN

LETTERS

Defending the directory's cover

To the editors,

Despite my longtime
respect for the opinions and
conscience of my colleague
Professor Kaylor, I believe
that this one time I do not
wish for him to speak for
me. If he hasn’t missed the
point of the witty Pop Art
cover of the 1993-1994
Davidson Telephone Direc-
tory (“Directories area ‘trav-
esty’,” The Davidsonian,
October 25, 1993, p. 7), he
has at least missed the joke.
Errol C. Gibson’s

crayon-colored design and
waggish caption have noth-
ing to do with suggesting
that “at Davidson we want
‘girls’ to entertain our
‘boys’” (a bizarre notion
both beyond my own pow-
ers of suggestion or of imagi-
nation). The “Sam” to which
the “you’ve-come-a-long-
way-baby.” comic-book
heroine murmurs so famil-
iarly on her phone is surely
Sam Spencer—Dr. Samuel
Reid Spencer, Jr., President
Emeritus of Davidson Col-

lege, whose unfailing sup-
port and leadership helped
bring coeducation to
Davidson in 1973. I, too,
find it difficult to believe
that it’s only been twenty
years that there have been
women __ students_—_at
Davidson, so much a part of
life at Davidson College are
they now. It is, in fact, be-
cause women are so integral
to the learning and teaching
and leading herein 1993 that

See Phone on page 12

To the editors,

Everything that you are
about to read rests on the
assumption that Dr. Kaylor
was actually serious when
he'said, “.. . the directories
should be recalled, apolo-
giesmadeto women andmen
.-” etc. etc. blah blah blah.
If he was not serious, please
ignore everything below this
line. In my three plus years
at Davidson, I have learned

a few things, but one bit of
knowledge surpasses the
rest; never argue with a
Davidson professor, espe-
cially one of philosophy, re-
ligion, or something really
theoretical. At'this point in
our lives, PhDs are just
smarter and better arguers
than are we. Call it the pos-
tulate of higher learning.
With this in mind, I’ve
chosen to avoid my usual

confrontational approach,
and show Dr. Kaylorthe way
I feel in what I finda sneaky,
faceless, weaker way; I am
writing tohim inthe "South’s
Foremost College Weekly."
So here it goes.

Dr. Kaylor wants all
5,000, or however many,
directories to be printed

’ again, at the cost of the

See Kaylor on page 11

Prozac quells suicidal thoughts

To the editors,

This is yet another re-
sponse to Stephen Faller’s
article about depression and
Prozac. I agree with him on
some points and disagree on
others, but to me, the most
importantissue is: why take
antidepressants? This is
where he and I part com-
pany. This is my personal
story.

Throughout — high
school, but particularly dur-

ing my junior year, I was.

alienated from my parents
and friends. As the year
went on, I got continually
more depressed to the point
of being suicidal. Unfortu-
nately, nobody knew, so
nobody could help me. I
concealed it very well to
everyone around me because

I was ashamed. I was
ashamed of not being per-
fect, and I was terrified of
opening up to other people
no matter what the issue.
NowTIlookbackandseeitas
amiracle that survived. My
grades were better than ever,
and I was raking in the
“achievements,” but at the

See Prozac on page 11

Country ain't so bad, Frampton

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters, In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

To the editors,

Thisletteris in response
to Chris Frampton’s article
“Why so much country mu-
sic?” Let me try to explain,
that is, if Chris is intelligent
enough to comprehend this
answer.

Although I enjoy a vari-
ety of musical styles, coun-
try music has been a central
part of my life, and it has
only grown dearer over the
years. Country music is
spreading like wildfire for a
variety of reasons, but
mainly because people not
only enjoy it, but they also
relate to it. No matter how

|much you want to deny it,

country music, as well as

rates are available upon ar pene is ik by ae arubiece of eavienon i a

gospel and R&B, are the.

roots of America’s people. I
bet that I could even find a
country song that Chris
Frampton resembles.

And, if Chris hasn’t no-
ticed, country music is not
all beer-drinking cowboys
leaving their cheatin’ wives
in the pickup while simulta-
neously yodelin’ atune. This
musical: style, traditionally
associated with the South
and Midwest, has evolved
into quite a large range of
rhythms and themes.

_ Now, for the most im-
portant aspect of this letter.
Although a lot of us are in-
telligent, country musicfans
and artists would rather be
seen as real people: We love
Papaw, Mamaw, and sitting

in the porch swing. Most
people, especially these here
at Davidson, probably never
have and never will appreci-
ate the finer things in life
such as wading in the creek
in cut-offs, the art of eating
muscodines, or giving a loud
rebel yell. Whether you want
to wallow in self-pity or kick
up your heels, country mu-
sicis where tobe. Chris, this
letter just isn’t long enough
to give you the help you need,
buthere area fewhints. Give
thematry. 1. Garth Brooks
2. Dale Earnhardt 3. Write
about something you actu-
ally know about.
Yee-haw!!
Sincerely,
Carey A. McAlister ’97
