OPINIONS

8

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993

To begin, there are racial tensions everywhere. This is
nota cheery way to begin a column, but I don’t think the key
to the future lies in the hands of the cheer-mongers. It can
be said that in every major U.S. town or city from Los
Angeles to Vidor, Texas, that racial tensions are brewing.
At fall convocation this last weekend, the guest speaker
praised multi-culturalism and diversity for diversity’s sake.
Perhaps I misunderstood the message, but if not, I gravely
disagree. Changing the scholastic canon and being deliber-
ately diverse racially will not make things better, or if they

. do, it will be by coincidence. I favor liberality of the mind,
but I don’t think these ways work. The problem is not that
we are different, but that we are discontent.

Terms. This is going to be “sticky.” Simply, there are
no terms I can use to please everyone. “Caucasian” is silly
— I’ve no relation to the Caucus mountains. “African-
American,” is equally problematic. I’ve met first genera-
tion “white” immigrants from Africa. Also, you don’t hear
of African-English of African-Canadian. The simplest
terms I am left with are “black” and “white,” and I really
don’t know what’s best to use. If these are offensive, I
apologize; maybe readers could respond to my column
suggesting concise and accurate terms.

Rafael and Travis have received much criticism for
their writing. I don’t agree with all they say (I ama person
of many qualms), but I think they’re onto something. If you
are not the solution, you’re the problem. However, I would
like to suggest that a stance can be so radical and so “in-

Steven Faller
And as for racism...

your-face” that it can make people who don’t normally care
about race uncomfortable and second-guess themselves
into a racial faux-pas.

However, it genuinely is hard to be in the minority. It
is not easy being the single one who looks a different way.
One shouldn’t deny that life, is difficult for people with
experiences unfamiliar to himself. And here is something
else to consider, have blacks ever been welcomed to America?
Have they been welcomed to Davidson? Perhaps there is a
reason that some black students here don’t feel like they
belong.

But the issue is much deeper. Simply, it is hard to be.
Life in modern times is harsh all around. I theorize it to be
true that the more outwardly different you are, the more
outwardly you are alienated, but we are all alienated. Per-
haps those racial tensions are manifestations of other ten-
sions. Maybe if everyone recovered their senses of self-
worth and felt like they lived in a world where others care,
racial tensions would fade.

We don’t feel like webelong. Weare taught that we are
no damned good. When was the last time you were told that
you were worthwhile? Many people, white people, go down
on the court just to have some sense of belonging. There is

Gull's Nest: Bill Gullan

Not all black speakers.

something wrong with this. One shouldn’t have to get
smashed to feel like a member of the human race.

But, even though I think racial conflicts are part of a
subset of a greater malaise, I will conclude by addressing a
few symptoms of the disease. It all comes down to this: you
are either my brother, or you are not. No qualifications. You
are either my sister, or you are not. This planet is cold
enough. If it is decided that we are unequal, then one of us
is necessarily better. In that case, my money ison me. And
as you might guess, we are likely to disagree. See where the
attitude of inequality gets us?

So, I say that we are equal. And yes, that means I think
inter-racial relationships are okay. I have heard people
reason that if God wanted people to mix, God wouldn’t have
made us different. That is silly. It is as if to say, “Yes, yes,
yes! This is how God wantsit! God wants us to hate and fear
each other, and must surely be very proud of our well-
segregated society.” Maybe these people will next say that
if God wanted people to live in harmony, God wouldn’t
have given us different opinions.

It seems to me that these folk have missed the point of
differences. Skin color is not good or bad, it simply is. The
business of “well-reasoned” bigotry has got to stop. Icrave
for the day when matters of reason might be conducted
reasonably. We have a rare opportunity here at Davidson.
We don’t have to alienate each other. Both blacks and
whites can make Davidson a place of trust where everyone
feels like they belong.

NICE GOING,

address race matters.

O.K., soI’m not the best writer
in my family and I’m not the origi-
nal Gull.

Anyhow, I’d still like toinvite
everyone tocome hear Prof. Walter
Williams on Wednesday night at
eight in the Multipurpose Room
(the Gallery). Here’s why.

Herepresents diversity. Idon’t
say this because he is black, but
rather because his viewpoint is
rarely officially

their government. For game rules
to have meaning and usefulness
and be just, they can’t be “living.”
How would you like to play poker
with me? There you sit with three
of a kind and I tell you my pair of
aces wins because Hoyle’s rules,
our poker constitution, have been
adapted to the complexities of my
life.” This is just straight talk from
a very intelligent man and an en-
gaging personal-

heard at rvs 5 ity.

Davidson. Di- Diversity at In addition to
versity at Davidson too often writing his column
Davidson too of- means the Johnetta and teaching his

ten means the
Johnetta Cole’s
of the world lib-
erals who are di-
verse on sight,

Cole's of the world--
liberals who are
diverse on sight."

classes, Dr. Will-
iams makes fre-
quent local and na-
tional television
and radio appear-

but who just say
the same thing, who push the same
. agenda. Dr. Williams is as much
like Johnetta Cole or Spike Lee as
Iam, say, like Anni Kirkland. Sure,
we’re both white, but that’s where
the similarities end.

Dr. Williams, in addition to
being one of the most prominent
black conservatives inthe country,
is the John M, Olin Distinguished

~ Professor of Economics at George ~

Mason University in Fairfax, VA.
He’s not one of those minorities
who are brought in to speak about
race relations or gender inequity,
as if we think that is all they’re
qualified to discuss. He is coming
to talk about the role of govern-
ment ina free society, a subject to
which we can all relate.

Here’s an excerpt from Dr.
Williams’s weekly syndicated col-
umn. He’s talking about lawyers
and politicians who think that the
U.S. Constitution is a “living docu-
ment” that we can just adapt it to fit
the complexities of our own indi-
vidual lives. Williams writes: “Bal-
derdash! A Constitution estab-
lishes rules of the game, standards
of. conduct amongst people and

ances. As an ar-
ticulate speaker and keen political
observer, Dr. Williams’s opinion
is sought out quite often by talk
shows. As a matter of fact, when
the host was vacationing (fat farm),
Dr. Williams was the guest host of
the three-hour Rush Limbaugh
Radio Program. It will be neat to
dine with the voice I’ve heard and
the face I’ve seen so many times.
Tsaw him speak this summer
at the Young America’s Founda-
tion National Student Leadership
Conference. He was very good. In
fact, the YAF is co-sponsoring Dr.
Williams’s speech with the Union
Speakers Committee. The YAF is
a non-profit organization that as-
sists students such as myself in
bringing conservatives to the cam-
puses to speak. You would not
believe how difficult this is at places
less tolerant than Davidson.
Come to the speech at 8:00
p.m. in the Multipurpose Room of
Chambers on Wednesday, Novem-
ber 10. You will truly not regret it.
It will be a night of fun, thought,
and opinion. Also, I’ll be intro-
ducing Dr. Williams and wearing a

. Snazzy new suit!

Guys...
TROS-GHALI
ROM UN

Distriputed by Tribune Media Sennices

Rob King
Purposeless action.

Have you ever stared blankly at your computer
screen for an hour when trying to write a paper? Do
you ever try so hard studying for a test or playing in
an athletic contest that you end up performing worse
than you would gave without even trying. Have you
ever been so infatuated with a person of the opposite
sex, that when you run into that person around cam-
pus your brain turns to mush and you end up saying
something stupid like, “Hi, I’m name. What’s your
Rob?”

If you answered “yes” to any of these questions,

“then you are practicing what Chinese Taoists refer to

as yu-wei (pronounced you-way). According to
Taoists, yu-wei is simply purposeful action. So
what’s wrong with purposeful action, you might ask?
Afterall, everything we do here at Davidson seems to
have a purpose, and the Davidson tradition seems to

‘emphasize goal setting and doing the little things in

order to achieve a larger purpose. By purposeful
action, classical Taoists are describing action which
becomes so self-conscious that the person becomes
anxious and worried about the results, rather than
enjoying the journey itself.

Iconsider myself a bit of an expert on yu-wei. In
football, I try so hard that I sometimes end up being
so worried about how I am playing that I forget that
“playing” is supposed to be fun In relationships, the
moment I start thinking about a woman possibly
being more than a friend, I forget how much fun I
have with her, and she becomes more of an object of
my infatuation. (Sometimes I wish I could go back to
that innocent time of note-writing in class—such as

last year— where you write, “Will you go with me? -
Check yes, no, or maybe.”)

O.K., so it is obvious that we should not practice
yu-wei. The opposite of yu-wei is wu-wei, (pro-
nounced woo-way; honestly, I’m not making this
stuff up!) Wu-wei is simply action without a purpose,
or "non-doing." Non-doing doesn’t mean you are
necessarily not doing anything, but is more of an
attitude or rather lack of an attitude concerning what
activity you are doing. Wu-wei means that you are not
placing your activity into any category. Rather, you
just find contentment in the activity itself, and you just
do it without really thinking about it.

When I think of wu-wei, I think of two individu-
als. The first is Winnie the Pooh. I never thought of

~ Pooh Bear much until I borrowed the book The Tao of

Pooh from a close friend. Pooh is entirely content
being the uncarved block and doing everything he
does naturally, without categorizing his activities.
The other individual I think of is a friend of mine who
plays football with me. Even though we always joke
about wu-wei or being the Confucian “great man,” I
notice in the way he plays football that he enjoys what
heis doing for its own sake. He doesn’t seem to worry
about how he is playing because he is just having fun
and “playing” like a little kid would play.

Besides enjoying a jar of honey or playing better
football, practicing wu-wei can help in so many other
areas of our life. Just imagine a world in which
everyone practiced wu-wei. We would have no more
Caucasians, African Americans, Hispanics, or Orien-
tals. Everyone would just be people. People would
no longer constantly strive for that one extra dollar.
Everyone would be virtuous and treat others with
dignity without being prideful. It might seem like a
pipe dream, but just imagine...
