6

: THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1 993

The week in Washington |
Lines drawn on health care issue

By Brett Marston

Health care reform is on the
horizon.

Clinton delivered his health
care reform proposal to a joint ses-
sion of Congress Wednesday night,
September 22, and the Republi-
cans on Capitol Hill had already
drawn their battle lines—not only
for the fight with Clinton, but over
disagreements in their own party.

The fact that the Republican
party is divided on the issue of
health care leads many analysts to
believe that some compromise on
the issue is immanent, and that
Congress will take some final ac-
tion within a year.

“We think a coalition will
come together of moderate Repub-
licans, liberal Democrats and mod-
erate Democrats that will pass the
bill,” said Ira Magaziner in the
Congressional Quarterly.
Magazineris Clinton’s chief White
House adviser for health policy.

Clinton said nothing new in
his speech Wednesday night.
Documents detailing his health
plan surfaced in Washington two
weeks ago.

Here are the major points of
his plan:

Universal coverage: By
1997, Clinton wants every U.S.
citizen, permanent resident, or
long-term non-resident covered by
health insurance, which must meet
or exceed the standards of a basic
benefits package.

“Health alliances”: The new
plan wouldbond together individu-
als and most all companies into
huge buying pools which would
bargain with insurance companies
and keep their prices down.

¢Mandates: Employers would
be required to pay for at least 80%
of the average cost their employ-
ees’ insurance package.

Subsidies: The federal gov-
ernment would help small busi-

The Dean Rusk Program
Tensions rise in Sudan

By Andy Barwig

The fact is that Sudan gains
about as much international atten-
tion as “Wing Wednesday” does at
the Union Outpost. Occasionally
mentioned somewhere in between
a famine and a civil war, Sudan’s
internal problems are for the most
part unknown. .

The images of starving chil-
dren in Ethiopia about a decade
ago galvanized American support
with a massive aid project to the
poor African nation. The situation
in Sudan is very similar to what
happened in Ethiopia except for
the problem that aid to Sudan does
not reach the people that need it the
most.

Sudan’s official support of
Saddam Hussein during the Gulf
Crisis has served only to further
isolate the sub-Saharan African
nation as a massive famine looms
on the horizon.

Since a military regime seized
power in 1985, the domestic situa-
tion in Sudan has rapidly deterio-
rated. Civil war in southern Sudan
has been a major obstacle to stabil-
ity and development in the entire
region.

The root of the conflict lies
within Sudan’s distinctive social
composition. The general division
in Sudan is between the Muslim

Arabs in the North and the African
Christians in the South.

Since the military dictatorship
took power it has begun a cam-
paign tounite Sudan under Islamic
law. This policy has been quite
unpopular to say the least. Imagine
trying to unite Delaware with Utah
to understand what the govern-

ment of Sudan has embarked on.

Recent reports have linked
Sudan with the growing accounts
of terrorism around the world. It is
unfortunate that Sudan has become
one of the renegade nations be-
cause the people of Sudan are truly
paying the price as Sudan’s stan-
dard of living and its human rights
record are among the very worst in
the world.

It was rumored that during the
Gulf crisis, Iraq had moved Scud
missiles into Sudan to possibly be
used against forces opposed to
Saddam Hussein.

The problems in Sudan have
only served to destabilize the re-

- gion further.

Sudan has been at the brink of
war with several countries includ-
ing Ethiopia and Chad for their
support of the rebels in Sudan.

The future of Sudan is omi-
nous. Tensions in Sudan could
very well evolve into the next fi-
asco in U.S. foreign policy.

nesses which cannot afford to pay
for their workers’ policies.

*Regulation: A new, presi-
dential appointed National Health
Board would limit the amount in-
surance companies can increase
their premiums.

eTaxes: Aside from cuts in
Medicare and Medicaid, Clinton
would impose taxes on tobacco to
help pay for his plan.

The Republican party has
drafted two separate health care
reform plans of their own.

One, which most House Re-
publicans endorse, would make
few changes with the presenthealth
care system. The other, signed by
23 of 44 Senate Republicans, coin-
cides with Clinton’s plan in many
points, but differs on a few major
issues.

The House Republican plan
does not seek universal coverage
and would not force businesses to
provide insurance policies for their
workers. It would place some mi-
nor restrictions on insurance com-
panies, especially on their ability
to refuse coverage to high-risk in-
dividuals or businesses.

Cuts in Medicare subsidies for
wealthy individuals and a later fed-
eral retirement age would finance
this proposal. The Senate GOP
plan, proposed by Sen. John Chafee
from Rhode Island, would make
changes nearly as sweeping as the
Clinton plan. Chafee’s opponents
in his party have dubbed his pro-
posal “Hillary II.”

~€Chafee’s plan, like Clinton’s,
has universal coverage as a main
goal, but sets the year 2000 as a
target date. Clinton sees this com-
mon goal as highly significant.
“[This] is a magic moment,” he
said on Wednesday, “and we must
seize it.”

Clinton and Chafee are atodds
on several points, however. Under
Chafee’s plan, the health alliances
would be smaller, and noone would
be required to join them. As one
might expect, Chafee also balks at
employer mandates, government
regulation, and new taxes.

If Clinton and Chafee can iron
out their differences, which seems
likely under the intense public pres-
sure on Washington to act on this
issue, this "Big Deal" may indeed
become reality.

Sources: The Congressional
Quarterly, The Wall Street
Journal, Time, and The Charlotte
Observer.

R.O.T.C.
BLOOD DRIVE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
10:00 a.m.-3:30 p.m.
downstairs in the Union

¥-

ELSEWHE R

September 6,

b

for the week endin ys Sunday,

NOTES

Taking steps past Gephardt

“But labor, scarred by plant closings and declining memberships,
is leaning hard on all of its old friends and allies for help. One of those
old friends, Rep. Richard Gephardt, the House majority leader, has
now declared that he will vote against [NAFTA]. Protectionism can’t
create jobs, however, and this country needs a million additional jobs
every year merely to keep up with its growing population. Secretary
Robert Reich correctly described NAFTAas only another step, like all
the others that this country has taken over the past generation, to build
a trade regime that strengthens American economic growth.”

-from the September 25, Washington Post editorial entitled “La-
bor and NAFTA”

Inside the Arab-Israeli tent

“The truth is that Arafat’s separate peace does weaken Syrian
leader Assad’s bargaining position. Assad has reason to fear that he
will be offered less favorable terms for peace now that the PLO has
recognized Israel and other Arab states have accepted Arafat’s deal
with Rabin. He has also glimpsed the possibility of a new regional
configuration, one in which Palestinians, Israelis and Jordanianscould
form a cooperative triangle in the manner of the Benelux countries.

“Assad, however, will not allow himself to be treated like a weak
supplicant. He will use his domination of Lebanon, his control of
Palestinian hardliners and his tactical alliance with Iran to undo the
work of the peacemakers unless they bring him inside their tent.”

-from the Boston Globe editorial “The Road to Damascus” on
September 22

Guns for health care: TWA

“The cost of any radical new health program will be the determin-
ing factor in whether.it succeeds or fails. The American people will
not go for any additional broad taxes to fund anything. The money for
anew health care program has to be obtained by selective pickpocketing.
And the people who buy guns and ammunition, as well as those who
sell those weapons, are endangering our well being just as much as
smokers are, if not more.”

-from the editorial pages of the September 26 edition of The
Charlotte Observer. The piece was written by Howard Kleinberg of
the Cox News Service and advocated the taxation of weapons to pay
for the new health care program. :

Would Hillary hurry up, already?

“*‘Why?’ they inquired, ‘does Mrs. Clinton think she can decide
how to organize a health care system by having 500 people work for
three months?’ After all, they explained, thousands of people in many
countries had struggled for decades without finding the perfect sys-
tem.

‘But she doesn’t have to find the perfect system,’ I replied. ‘She
justhas 2 come UP with something better than what the United States
has now.’

In that case, I was asked, what was taking her so long?"

-from the summer edition of The Brookings Review. The author,
Joseph White, is describing a meeting he had with Canadian health
care experts.

S Seafood, BBQ
& Catering

Fe oD
ZO
Save *3°°

on two Adult Dinner Entrees

“not redeemable at lunch

« * Dine-In or Take-Out Only

* Only one coupon per couple per visit As a courtesy to guests dining alone this coupon is
° redeemable for'$1 50. This coupon is not redeemable with ony other coupon Must bring in thi is

| coupon tor otfer to be valid Offer expires: 11- 24- 93
Hwy 21 South, tees mn

Cornelius 892-3362 Spm-9pm

ge eseeew ee ew eee eee eae ew eee eee ee

re ee 8 ees |
