THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11, 1993 i

2 4
Gh Pe B avin BOUTAM HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost

College Weekly" WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager

JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Liberal arts as the purpose

"Davidson recognizes God as the source of all truth. As a college committed to
the historic Christian faith, it sees Jesus Christ as the central fact of history, giving
purpose, order, and value to whole life."

But does it?

Founded upon ideals set forth by Christian doctrine--faith, integrity, and honor--
Davidson College is unequivocally tied to the Presbyterian Church and to the Christian
community as a whole. This tradition is evidenced in modern form in the wording of the
above quoted paragraph, the second in the Statement of Purpose.

Many would argue that the Statement is outdated, that Davidson, in truth, no longer
aspires to instill basic Christian beliefs into its students and should therefore emend the
statement to reflect the realities of the community. Others might claim that the statement
is not intended to reflect what the college is doing, but what it should be doing.

Certainly, the Statement is not outdated in its goal to liberally educate the college's
students. A liberal arts education sets as its goal broad-based knowledge designed: to”
produce strong character. And Davidson has always attempted to do so, as the Statement
of Purpose exhorts.

"[Davidson] endeavors to teach students to think clearly and accurately, to make
relative and valid judgments, and to communicate freely with others in the realm of
ideas. Since this can be significantly realized only on the basis of an appreciative
knowledge of the past and a working acquaintanceship with current theory, Davidson
concentrates upon the study of history, literature, music and the arts, the physical,
natural and social sciences, languages, mathematics, philosophy, and religion."

To presuppose that Christ is "the central fact of history" may seem to limit the
Statement's assertion that a liberal arts education is based on the free exchange ofideas. We,
however, do not think so. In fact, the ideals of Christianity prescribe an unsurpassed moral
standard of acceptance and inclusiveness more apparent in the school than in the Statement
of Purpose itself.

‘The admissions office actively recruits students from various social, ethnic, and
religious backgrounds. The development office seeks financial means to carry out these
goals of increasing diversity efforts on campus. Even the religion department seems not so
concerned with instilling Christianity into students as itis in affecting an understanding of
the world's varied religious beliefs. In essence, the members of the college community have
already changed the purpose of the school from developing strong Christians to developing
strong humans, liberally educated in all realms of the intellectual mold.

We have no interest in arguing the validity of Christ's role in a forum such as this one.
We do, however, believe that a college that respects knowledge and learning as much as
Davidson must also respect the teachings and beliefs of religions other than those of its
founders. But that respect must be more than a simple recognition; it must be a willingness
to accept the doctrines of non-Christians as possible and worthy of debate,

Thus, we propose, as the SGA and others have done before us, that the Statement of
Purpose be revised to reflect what has already become the focus of a Davidson education-
-understanding. But we also propose the college go a step further in eliminating the policy
restricting membership to the Board of Trustees to active Christians.

To deny the contribution the Presbyterian Church has made to Davidson is no less than
idiotic. Tying the school to the church, if nothing else, provides a tangible institution from
which to draw our ideals of honor, integrity, and hard work. But for the ties to be so strong
as to lead us to exclude certain qualified individuals from the Board of Trustees is to take
the relationship beyond what is appropriate and, indeed, what is Christian.

In essence, we urge the school to preach what it practices: the liberal arts.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

i

LP am
. sd

ees

Lee}

’
\
\
\

What's in a name?

To the editors:

In regard to ‘Tene’
Moore’s column last week, I
have this to say: lighten up.

I, too, have been mis-
takenly addressed by another
name, and subsequently
have been told I look exactly
like someone that I felt bore
no resemblance to me what-
soever - the only connection
was that we both have long,
dark hair.

I do not take offense to
this blunder. Why should I?
Why should anyone? He or
she that is without sin, cast
the first stone, because we
all forget names at some time
or another. The fact of the
matter is that most people
just don’t pay attention
enough toremembera name,
and I assure you that ability
of putting names with faces
is independent of skin color

or gender. This is not a ra-
cial issue; unfortunately, as
is the “fashion” nowadays,
someone has tried to make it
one.

The implication that
“white” people must “think
twice the next time they ap-
proach an International or
African American student”
is, at the very least, despi-
cable. This attitude breeds
fear, resentment, and para-
noia, and I am personally
appalled at the statute Ms.
Moore has put forth. Are
students supposed to ap-
proach with trepidation other
students who are different
from them, with regard to
gender, handicaps, sexual
preference; and religious
beliefs, as well, simply be-
cause they might get that
person's name confused with
someone else’s?

If such were the case, I
would limit my conversa-
tions to the residents on my
hall and about ten other
people, because I certainly
wouldn’t want to offend the
other hundred potential
friends out there by getting
their names wrong.

I think Ms. Moore is
only making things hard on
herself by taking offense at
sucha paltry blunder as name
confusion. People don’t say
“Good morning” to you be-
cause they think your name
is Theresa - they say it be-
cause they like you and want
to show kindness to you, not
your name. If it is more
important to have people
know youby.yourname than

by your personality, wear a
name tag.

Sincerely,

Jason Roebuck ’97

Prozac attack

To the editors:

Ithink we can all say we
have had those mornings
when we just couldn't make
it-out of bed, couldn't seem
to "get it together." That is
normal. But have you ever
had 6 months, or a year like
that? Days like these are not
filled with these normal
"struggles" you referred to:
those that you learn from,
that make you grow.

They can be filled with
tears, razor blades, bottles of
liquor. For many of these
people, not tomentionscores
of others, Prozac can help.
These people are not the
country club crew you im-
ply in your article; they are
not trying to "buy happi-
ness," they only want a rea-
sonably fairshake atit. They
do not need "wonders," or

"lobotomies."

Speaking of brain func-
tions, did it ever occur to Mr.
Faller to do some research
about Prozac? Obviously
concerned about this issue,
it would strike me as logical
tolook up some information
about the topic: certainly our
Davidson education has
taught us the value of mak-
ing informed, open-minded
statements.

I, along with most who
know anything about Prozac,
will readily make the con-
cession that it, like most
drugs, is abused. However,
this is a fault of the medical
profession, not the therapeu-
tic drug. Relatively new on
the market, there are physi-
cians who prescribe it inap-
propriately or unnecessarily.
It is often prescribed with-

out concurrent counseling.
In consulting professional
sources, no, "Newsy" and
"Door Deals" do not count,
you would have discovered
that Prozac is not a "wonder
drug," but a chemical tool
that, when coupled with
counseling, can promote
adaptive life changes.

Itis much like a cast for
a broken arm: it does not do
the healing, only provides a
safe haven for healing to take
place.

limplore you do talk to
those who have been helped
by Prozac or the profession-
als who endorse its use.
Open yourmind toboth sides
of the story. For heavens
sake, look past the "Door
Deals!"

Sincerely,
Susan K. Taylor

OPINIONS

Gull's Nest

By Bill Gullan
Students probably
won’t wanttoread this, even
though we columnists are the
reason this “newspaper” ex-
ists. Thiscolumn isn’t about
beer or cigarettes. I’ve been

rates are available upon request, Copyright is:held by the Trustees of Davidson College. }.

volity. No remarks about
fraternities or alcohol or re-
ality. The faculty doesn’t
approve. If you want toread
mindlessness,: read
Frampton’s weekly offering
of crud; I’m going to be
serious for a while.

I'm proud not to be the Princeton of the South

“Davidson.” Blank
stare. “Dickinson?” they
ask. “Denison?” This is
what students from my area
of the country hear when
asked where they attend

See South on page 10 .
