6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Washington
Clinton backs Yeltsin in power struggle

By Brett Marston
As tanks shot holes in the par-
liament building in Moscow last
week, President Clinton firmly
supported Russian President Boris
Yeltsin’s use of force to quell a
Communist and nationalist upris-

name, the Congress of the People’s
Deputies, reflects its origins in pre-
Gorbachev days. The leader of
Yeltsin’s rivals in parliament,
Ruslan Khasbulatov, responded on
Sept. 21 by voiding Yeltsin’s ex-
ecutive powers and appointing

ing, but also made it clear that himself President.

continued U.S. approval of Yeltsin A stronghold of old Commu-
depends on his fulfillmentofprom- _ nists and nationalists, the parlia-
ises to hold parliamentary elec- ment had consistently thwarted
tions in December. Yeltsin in his attempts to reform

“As long as he goes forward
with the new constitution, genu-
inely democratic elections for the
Parliament, genuinely democratic
elections for the president, then he
is doing what he said he would

Russia’s economy and political
system.

The armed standoff between
Yeltsin and Khasbulatov began on
Sunday when rebels loyal to the
parliament attacked the govern-

do,” Clinton said on Monday. ment-controlled television. broad-
Clintonalsorestatedhisplans casting center.
to meet with the Russian President Yeltsin appealed to the mili-

in January. In a further show of
support of Yeltsin, Vice-President
Al Gore and Secretary of State
Warren Christopher announced
plans to travel to Russia within the
next three months.

Many analysts are concerned,
however, that Yeltsin has increased
the powers of the executive to a
dangerous degree, and that he has
had to make significant conces-
sions to the military leadership,
which wants to keep its large share
of the budget and pursue a more
nationalistic course than Yeltsin
has previously planned.

The rhetoric in Moscow had
become increasingly violent since
Sept. 21, when Yeltsin dissolved
the parliament, whose official

tary for help, and on Oct. 4 and 5,
army units seized the parliament
building and crushed the rebellion.
Khasbulatov and other parliamen-
tary leaders are in prison and will
not be allowed to participate in the
elections for the new parliament,
called the State Duma, Yeltsin has
declared.

As the crisis began, Yeltsin
declared a temporary state of emer-
gency, banned several opposition
newspapers, and outlawed influ-
ential communist and nationalist
political parties. He has also in-

-creased his control over regional

governments, many of which op-

pose Yeltsin and his reforms.
“Presidential authority has in-

creased greatly,” one Yeltsin aide

said last week in the Christian Sci-
ence Monitor. Many in Washing-
ton have calledon Yeltsin to lift his
restrictions on the press, now that
he has control of the situation in
Moscow. Some even fear that
Yeltsin’s willingness to take extra-
legal action may prove dangerous
for the development of democracy
in Russia.

Officials here also worry that
the military may have more influ-
ence on Yeltsin now that it has
proven itself loyal to him. Until
last week, military leaders have
been reluctant to get involved in
domestic affairs.

Now, Yeltsin will most likely
have to scale back his proposals to
cut the defense budget and to re-
structure the arms industry for ci-
vilian production. This will slow
economic reform.

More ominously, Yeltsin may
need to bow to the military in the
foreign policy arena. Already un-
der pressure from top generals late
last month--before the attempted
coup-- Yeltsin displeased western.
leaders as he warned Hungary and
Poland not to join NATO. A more
nationalist turn in Russia’s foreign
policy could also mean increased
tensions with neighboring coun-
tries, such as Georgia and the
Ukraine.

Sources: Christian Science
Monitor, New York Times,

Congressional Quarterly,
and Die Zeit —

Vietnam: Two DC student

By Alice Felmlee

Eating pig intestines with fish
sauce, teaching English to inquisi-
tive foreigners, and traveling on
war-torn roadsis alla part of today’s
Vietnam experience.

Last year two Davidson stu-
dents spent time in Vietnam and
experienced these situations first

‘hand. Both Patrick White ’95 and
Phuc Phan ’94 studied in Vietnam
for a semester with the School for
International Training. The two
were based in different areas and
for this reason had slightly differ-
ent experiences.

When sharing some of hissto-
ries inatalk sponsored by the Dean

® KOBE

JAPANESE #QUSE OF STEAKS SEAFOOD

KOBE 1st Anniversary
Come Celebrate Our Anniversary

through the month of October
Special Imperial Dinner for Two
Combination of:
-Habachi Steak ONLY
-Habachi Shrimp $2995
AN Onners incude! per couple
Soup » Salad * Shrimp Appetizer Save *15% off
Fried Rice + Vegetables menu price.
Thank you for making our first year a success!
offer good Oct. 1-31
sie Exit 28
20465 Chartwell Ctr. soca NC
Lunch 11:30am-2:00pm Mon-Fri
Dinner Sun-Thur 5-10pm
Fri-Sat 5-11pm

896-7778

Strep SO vue
erty

perspectives

Rusk Program on Wednesday af-
ternoon White had many positive
things to say about his time at the
University of Ho Chi Minh in
Saigon.

“I never really felt any open
hostility towards me as an Ameri-
can. People were always very
friendly and would come running
up to me on the street and want to
pinch my skin, and pull on my arm
hair. They were fascinated with
arm hair.

“After being there I find it
hard to believe that there are still
POWs or MIAs, and I hope that
our government will encourage
trade with them," he added.

For Phan, who has distant rela-
tives living in Saigon, the Vietnam
experience was not quite so
friendly. Unlike White, Phan chose
to study in northern Vietnam at the
University of Hanoi. In northern
Vietnam foreigners are not nearly

 asacceptedasthey areinthe South.

“In many small villages they
will threaten you and throw rocks
at you when you walk by.”

While in Vietnam both stu-
dents took four classes and one
seminar composed solely of stu-
dents from the School for Interna-
tional Training. In addition, both
taught English to largeclasses filled
with Vietnamese adults.

Although neither White nor
Phan was certified to teach En-

MONDAY, OCTOBER 11 1993

ELSEWHERE

Perspective

NOTES

* | presidency healthy at home.”

Our troops on our terms

“Whether safety for American forces and the rescue of the Somali
people are consistent goals is far from certain. It’s to Mr. Clinton’s
credit that he is attempting the stretch. It has already cost him heavily
in at least two areas. His earlier drift toward a seemingly open-ended
policy provoked a major and, in the end, helpful burst of public and
congressional dismay. And he was forced to abandon his intended
ambitious—too ambitious, it turns out—policy partnership with the
United Nations. Instead he is making a tight and necessary go-it-alone
turn: American control of American troops on American terms. He
is doing this for no less essential a purpose than to cut his political
losses if not also his foreign policy losses in Somalia and keep his

-from the October 8 editorial in The Washington Post

Retirement, golfing, and lunch with your wife

“(Michael Jordan] said he’d discussed his move with family,
teammates, coaches, and business associates, but didn’t mention the
one group that could have given him first-hand information on his
newly chosen path: men who’d retired early. If he had, he might have
been told that while golf is fun on vacations, it gets old fast as an
everyday thing, and that their wives married them for life but not for
lunch.

“By all accounts, Jordan is a restless, competitive person, not one
to sit and watch his grass grow. With an estimated annual income of
$35 million, only about $4 million of which came from his basketball
pay check, he can afford to hire someone to cut it.

“In answer to the question of whether he might someday “unretire,’
he was equivocal, saying he didn’t ‘want toclose that door.’ The guess
here is that, spirit refreshed in a year or so, he’ll decide that he’d rather
be Mike, soaring on the basketball courts again, than just another
earthbound ‘like Mike’.”

-from “Why Mike Will Be Back” in the October 8 issue of The
Wall Street Journal

Loading the cannon

“There is much at stake if America mishandles its partnership
with Japan. North-east Asia, just across the Pacific from America, is
probably the world’s most dangerous region. There is that loose
cannon, North Korea; the vast unpredictability of China’s future; the
sulkiness of still-powerful Russia. The closeness between America
and Japan makes all this less dangerous than it might be. America’s
military presence also gives Japan a sense of security, which it might
otherwise try to achieve by over-arming itself. Were a rift to grow
between the two, a Japan thinking more aggressively about its own
security might then provoke its neighbors to do the same. Indeed,
America might find bogeys lurking in the future much more frighten-
ing than a giant trade deficit.”

-from the September 25 edition of The Economist

.Alcohol Awareness
Week
~~ October 10-17 _

"Responsibility,

“not abstinencé": - .

ween

glish, they had more problems an-
swering their students’ questions
than they did teaching the language
itself.

“They would always ask ques-
tions like how does it feel to be
free, what is racism, are you a
Democrat or a Republican, and
most commonly, when will the em-
bargo end?” remembered White.

In their discussion of the Viet-
nam experience both White and
Phan focused on the country’s
economy and the foreigner’s role
in making or breaking the system.
In Saigon White noticed desperate
attempts to attract Western invest-
ment.

However, Phan’s perspective
was different. “In northern Viet-
nam the people feel that their cul-
ture is dying out because of the
foreigner’s presence. They don’t
want foreign investments but ev-
erybody wants to go South. The
Bisse is where the jobs are.”

White also conducted an indepen-
dent research project. By living
with two very poor families he was
able to gain a better understanding
of the Vietnamese culture and
economy. Both families survived
on only one dollar a day. In one of
the families the mother worked
twelve hours a day only to receive
fifty cents pay.

While in Saigon White was
able to meet up with Phan’s rela-
tives who were.very protective of
him and who helped him in ex-
changing currency. Beforereturn-
ing to the United States, Phan also
traveled south and was able to visit :

with his relatives.

Although both students had
memorable learning experiences
in Vietnam, neither misses the Viet-
namese cuisine.

Meals of rice and pig intestine
with fish sauce became quite com-
mon; yet neithercould bring them-
selves to taste Som, a frequent’ Va

. Dibeidg ‘his Stay inl ‘Saigon’ pdebese dish! 1-1-0200 oe.
