_ ARTS! _

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 22, 1993

The Grateful Dead to Tour With Some Band Called Residew > '

By Piddie Newbury

Ina press conference this past
Wednesday, Residew announced
that they will be accompanying the
Grateful Dead on their summer
tour. “We’re very psyched to be
helping them out,” bassist Chip
Petree said. At a recent Residew
performance at the Dark Horse
Tavern in Atlanta, Bob Weir joined
the ‘Dew onstage for arendition of
“Mr. Charlie” and “Stuck In the
Middle With You.”

“After the show, Bob came

back stage and said he was really
impressed,” said Petree. “We hit it
off. Long after the crowd left, we
[Residew and Weir] jammed.”
Furtherconversation led toa meet-
ing with theother Dead band mem-
bers, and they unanimously voted
to bring Residew along for the
summer tour. “It’s going tobe
huge,” said guitarist Julian
Cochran, class of ’92. “We'll be
playing venues like RFK stadium,
and Deer Creek. Ican’t believe we
made the transition from clubs to

Pissin' in the Wind .. . I. D. Iot

The Ballad of B&E

Well, pardners, I know that this article will seem anticlimactic after
last week’s gargantuan, self-important orgy ofan editorial on the country
music phenomenon. But I just couldn’t restrain myself after finding out
about the demise of the B & E. Yes, folks, the one last bastion of
Americana in the Davidson area (and the only place around I can watch
my favorite Billy Ray Cyrus videos) is history. A source I won’t identify
called around and found out that McDonald’s owns that land and sold it
toa franchise that will puta Texaco in the B & E’splace. Iknow cowboys
aren’t supposed to cry, but I came pretty darn close when I found out.
Well, Eric Clapton dealt with the tragedy of his son’s death by writing
a grammy-winning song (I can’t remember what it’s called since it’s not

country), and I figured I could do the same for the B & E. Even though —

songwriting’s fairly unknown territory for me, I came up with something
that would make Hank Jr. or David Allen Coe proud. I know what y’all
are thinking: “Matt, don’t this create a conflict of interest between your
music reviewin’ side and your Nashville tourin’ side?” All I have to say

is, read “em and weep...

I was truckin’ late one night on 77

Bein’ tired on the road just ain’t no heaven
And Columbia was over two hours away.
Passin’ by Mooresville at quarter ‘till three
my mouth started waterin’ like a dog in heat
“Cause the Bacon & Eggs was minutes away.

I called up some folks on my old CB
And asked ‘em all, “Who's comin’ with me?
I’m gettin’ a Belt-Buster at the B & E!”
Pot Belly, Bubba, and Papabear replied

And said one after the other, “We'd be much obliged
We’ll be in Cornelius with you by three.”

But on our way into the parking lot
All our 72 wheels screeched to a stop
As we saw the B & E wasn’t open no more!
“Where the hell’s that restaurant of mine?
That sweet grease oasis of North Caroline

Has a Texaco sign where-‘B &.E’ stood before”

None of us four knew what to do
“What about that waitress with the shoulder tattoo?
And what about the ‘Rowe’ video screen?”
We stopped a passerby, “Hey, what’s happened
To our smothered grits and our little Ms. Pacman,
And who in the hell could be so low-down and mean?”

I gotta tell ya, I couldn’t take no more
When he said it was done by the McDonald’s next door,
Who sold the land to someone to build a Texaco.
Bubba said, “You're tellin’ me some stupid clown
Tore down the best place in this entire town
To build just another crappy Texaco?”

Well, the boys and me wouldn’t sit idly by
And just watch our Southern heritage die—
We all knew some justice had to be dealt!
It wasn’t enough just to raise a ruckus
So we all four climbed back into our trucks
And headed for McDonald’s at full tilt...

Well, I’m the only one left to tell this story
(And I’m leavin’ out the parts that are really gory)
Let’s just say I was the only one to see the dawn.
Though levellin’ McD’s and losin’ our lives =
won’t bring back Ms. Pacman, tattoos, or greasy knives,
The legend of the B & E will live on.

mass audiences so quickly.”

““We’ve had to cancel all our
club dates for summer,” singer Fud
McKinney added. “From now on,
no more frat parties. We’re big
time now.” Residew was chosen
among five other finalist bands to
share the stage with the Dead.
Among the alternates were Wide-
spread Panic and Allgood.

A recent practice session at
Richardson field set the pace for
the showstocome. Beforeacrowd
of 2,000 students, faculty and
alumni, Residew displayed some
of the work they plan to showcase
this summer. Residew took the
stage at 4:00 and played an upbeat

set which included “Me and My
Uncle” and “Eyes Of The World.”
A surprise appearance from both
Bob Dylan and Jerry Garcia high-
lighted the ‘Dew’s rendition of the

Dylan song “Tangled Up In Blue.”

Residew also played some of their
new material for the eager crowd.
“We’re not about Grateful Dead
covers. We just play them because
the fans are always requesting
them,” Petree said adamantly.
“This summer, we’ ll be playing all
original songs.”

The Grateful Dead has been
practicing with Residew at an un-
disclosed location in Mt. Mourne.

““We’ve got some surprises in

store,” said Cochran. “One of us
(I can’t reveal which) will be tak-
ing the stage with the Dead, not
just opening for them.” Sources
say that the mystery performer
might be Joe Binns, drummer for
Residew and Davidson Alumnus
91. He may be joining Mickey
Hart for the infamous song,
“Drums.” “Icannot wait. Icouldn’t
be more floored,” Petree said after
the press conference. “We'll be
playing Davidson before we tour,
so look for us,” he added. At press
time, IPC has scheduled a Grateful
Dead/Residew performance in the
900 Room during exams. It will be
free with Davidson College I.D.

The Dead and The Dew ec dae It!)

In what is probably the most unreasonable joke in this issue of The Davidphonian, the
Grateful Dead made surprise tour stop to jam with the local hippie band, The Residew.

There are some other things written about this in the article above. Oh, by the way, that's
Julian's head pasted over Bob Weir's above.

Photo doctor by Chuck E. Cheese

By Crystal Gazer

taurus (april 20-may 20)
Yeah! Your birthday month starts
off with a bang! Saturn, briefly
penetrating Pisces on the 21st,
leaves as quickly ashecomes. This
Starry encounter may leave its mark
for several months, so you may
want to visit Davidson’s clinic.
Around the Sth, arelationship flares
it nostrils at you, bovine sign, and
you flare yours right back. But
beware, this may become violent
around the 16th. No fear, four-
nippled livestock. . . with your
stubborn attitude people will hate
you more than you hate yourself.

Famous birthdays this month:
Pee Wee Herman, Allysa Milano,
Erik Erstrada, Richard Simmons,
John Ritter, Cagney and Lacey,
and Sally Struthers

gemini (may 21-june 20)
Hey twin, get off your assand stop
whining! It’s time for a little inde-
pendence. This month would be a
cosmic opportunuty to get your-

self severed from that pesky
Siamese twin of yours, or take some
language classes. Say hello to the
ladies and goodbye to his Silk
Stalkings video collection. No
more sitting around while he plays
on the Vax for hours! Around the
13th, you may file charges against
him for taking more than his fair
share— both testicles.

cancer (june 21-july 22)
Beware!!! As the crab of the heav-
ens, you will find a colony of your
peers living in your pants (see
condom ad in Special Section for
information) on the 3rd. How
happy you'll be mid-month,
Moonchild, when your sex life
makes a single solar flare from its
black hole. Although this super-
nova is/Short-lived, it will tide you
over to the next new moon.

leo (july 23-august 22)
You are the king of the jungle, the
master of the bush. Don’t getcocky
too early this month- make your-
self a little vulnerable. Let the
kitten in youreplace your roar with

Horoscope- Written by the
Chemically Dependent

apurr. After that last unsuccesful
hunt, take time to lick your wounds,
etc. Relax! The harem will make
its way back to your lair around the
20th- expect cubs on the 30th.

virgo (aug. 23-sep.r 22 )

Unlock the chastity belt and put
the key in your hope chest. Like
always, you’llneverletthem snatch
away your prized posession. Fo-
cus on new financial opportuni-
ties, your class schedule, and fruits
and vegetables such as cherries
andcucumbers. If yourboyfriend’s
name is Joseph, don’t forget to
learn about birth control. Nobody
will buy thatstory about the "Lord"
more than once.

libra (sept. 23-oct. 22)
Since your sign is the scale, watch
your scales this month, you’ re put-
ting on some poundage. Forget
about watching what you eat,
Scalemaster, it’s what they call “a
gland problem.” Summer’s com-
ing, and there’s a lovely suit wait-

See Scope on oage 9
