THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1993 7

Che Aavidsonian

HARRISON ROBERTS- Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON- Managing Editor

MANDY CURTIS- News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY- Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB- Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL- Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS- Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS- Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM- Circulation Manager

What's the big deal?

Davidson College is by nature a safe-haven for those who desire to
ponder the abstract. Perhaps the result of this study is no better illustrated
than by the debate that has “raged” between those of us who believe that the
Trustees should allow non-Christians among their ranks and those who
believe that doing so would betray the tradition and spirit of the college.

At the same time, in Washington D.C., the capital city of one of the
world’s most “civilized” countries, the mayor has called for the presence of
military troops to protect citizens besieged by violence. In Los Angeles,
crime and anarchy reign and few are sure what to do about it. Davidson’s
troubles pale in comparison. -

But taking The Davidsonian as a gauge of society would lead the average
reader to believe that ours was a country mired in a tumultuous battle over
whether or not pop art was a proper format in which to celebrate women.

Obviously, as Davidson students, we are lucky enough to be able to leave
our dorm room doors unlocked. We can walk all over our campus with little
thought of danger and those thoughts most likely are the result of too many
nights spent watching horror films. And it is certain that Davidson students

do not carry guns.

But it is hard to be certain that Davidson’s sons and daughters realize
how lucky they are. In acountry so afraid of violent crime its citizens have
considered changing their constitution to outlaw guns, Davidson’s private
battles seem trivial and nearsighted.

So what, then, is the purpose of debates about non-Christian inclusive-
ness or images of women in the media when people are nailing shut their
doors and hiding guns under their pillows?

Every society has its intellectuals, and Davidson expects its teachers and
students to fit that characterization. Those intellectuals debate the philo-
sophical issues that arise from tangible events in society. Yet, in light of the

real world troubles of those living in the inner-cities, these debates seem -

trivial at best.

But appearances can be deceiving. In the United States’ past there are
two glaring examples of effective solutions brought about by the combina-
tion of philosophical and tangible approaches. One is the country’s
constitution, which is a response to the desires and problems of the masses,
but the product of intellectual thought. Another example is slavery, which
was debated in philosophical terms while being fought out on the battlefield.

Attacks on inner-city problems in America and debates about political
correctness and date rape, etc. on America’s college campuses are two viable
approaches to one question: How can we forge a better society? In essence,
by squeezing the problem from two sides, it may one day be possible to push
out an ultimate solution. But if not, at least some questions might be
answered.

"

\y

4 oH WHEN

THE MOMTORS WEED tHE
Mowtroring

LETTERS

Sig Ep flyers offend women

To the editors,

I am angrier and more
offended than I-have been in
a long time. There were
several flyer designs for one
of last weekend’s Patterson
Court parties. Among them
was a flyer posted only in
men’s bathroom stalls, a de-
sign which featured a well-
endowed woman, lingerie-
clad and half-naked, who
quipped, “Oh, Sam, I can’t
believe it’s been 20 years.”

I do not think it neces-
sary to elaborate on the bla-
tant sexist objectification of
women communicated by

this flyer. If you need an
explanation, ask me. The
flyer did a great job of dis-
counting the contributions
of Davidson women over the
past twenty years in addition
to presenting a seemingly
clear exposition of the “phi-
losophy” of Patterson Court
held by the flyer’s creators.

There are two ways to
interpret this flyer. Either
the creators thought seri-
ously about what they were
communicating, or they did
not. I have no choice but to
urgently hope that the mes-
sages were not intentional, a

result of too little thought
with the head and too much
hormonal influence.

If this is the case, I am
disappointed and frightened
by the apparent lack of
awareness. We cannot af-
ford to ignore the statistics
and the stories--one of four
college women in America
is a victim of sexual assault,
and I promise you that the
number ofsurvivors even on
this small and beautiful cam-
pus is higher than you think.

The presentation of

See Flyer on page 8

Dunifon defends inclusiveness

To the editors,

I would like to answer
the question posed by Rob
King last week: Why is the
SGA soantagonistictowards
Christianity? I am a mem-
berofthe SGA whostrongly
supports the removal of
Davidson’s requirement that
all trustees be active mem-

| bers of a Christian church.

- This action by the SGA
is, for me, more than just a
trendy political statement.
Like many students, I often
struggle with my perceptions
of God and religion, chal-
lenging previous beliefs and
trying to form new ones of
my own. The concept of
religion that I have in mind,
though always changing,
consistently demands the
acceptance of all groups,
Roan as, (not the dreaded

i” word!), inclusiveness.
Fe me, this is not a term of

political correctness, but a
deeper, moral conviction.
This belief is what inspired
me to support an act aimed
at making one of the most
influential bodies on this
campus open to all worthy
contributors.

Rob refers to the feel-
ing of shame that he would
have if future Davidson stu-
dents were unable to experi-
ence the spiritual growth that
he has while in college. I
could not agree more. I just
wonder what kind of spiri-
tual growth can occur in an
environmentin which people
of other faiths are consid-
ered unworthy of making the
college’s major decisions.

For me, true growth oc-
curs along with an unbiased
exposure to new ideas and
ideologies.

Only through these
means can one truly ques-

tion and solidify one’s faith.

Idonot understand how
the SGA’s resolution could
be seen as a slap in the face
to Christianity. Instead, it is
an affirmation of it, as well
as other religious views,
which advocate the accep-
tance of all people, regard-
less of sex, religion, race, or
sexual orientation.

This is not part of a
"crusade of  open-
mindedness," in which terms
such as “diversity” and “in-
clusiveness” are used as am-
munition to silence dissuad-
ers. Instead, it is the re-
sounding of a very basic
moral principle, advocated
by Jesus, as well as many
others before and after him:
love your neighbor as you
would love yourself. What
could be more simple?

Sincerely,
Rachel Duniion ’94

Don't confuse group and individual

The Davidsonianis published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of Davidson
College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219,
Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or-2149. The Davidsonian requests that
letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit all letters.
In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our offices are located on the third floor of the
Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not
necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost
$32.50 per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees
. of Davidson College. :

To the editors,

I want to thank Robert
Ramsay for clarifying what
I wrote a few weeks ago.
Although he may not realize
it, we said the same thing:
respect the uniqueness of the
individual.

I want to ask a few ques-
tions of the general reader-
ship: Is there something
unique that you can find that
every member of a particu-
lar group possesses? Do all
white people have the same
skin color? No. Do all
women think the same? No.
Do all men place sex above
all other priorities? No. Isit
possible to accurately char-

acterize people by including
them in predefined groups?
No. Therefore, we must
characterize people, oddly
enough, by their character-
istics.

That was the point of
my column. Mr. Ramsay, in
what was really a letter to
the editor and not truly an
opinions column, apparently
has a different definition of
“humanity” than I. He states
that “to refrain from point-
ing out anything unique
about the group” is to be-
come a part of “total, world-
wide conformity.”
Ramsay’s arguments show
that he has fallen into a com-

mon trap—confusion of the
group with the individual,
confusion of differentiation
with diversity.

Differentiation and a
focus on stereotypical
groups are the characteris-
tics of discrimination. Di-
versity and a respect for the
individual, regardless of
groups, are the characteris-
tics of humanity. AsIsaidin
the column, we must think
before we act or speak, or in
this case, write. Mr. Ramsay
could have used that advice
well in preparing his col-
umn.

Sincerely,

Jeff George ’95
