12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1993

Russ Warren brings unique new exhibit to the VAC —

By Josh Larned

It’s here to stay. Davidson’s
new Visual Arts Center has rap-
idly proven itself an essential focal
point for expression within the
community. Davidson Professor
Russ Warren’scurrentexhibit, now
on display at the V.A.C. gallery,
clearly demonstrates the tremen-
dous value of our quaint new edi-
fice.

Warrten’s display (taken from
a broad spectrum of his career) is
intense-it provokes thought with-
out sacrificing an initial optical
appeal. This reaction is largely due
to his unique conglomeration of

Naive Folk Art, abstract tech-
niques, and a vibrant palette. This
eclectic style, coupling with a nar-
rative (almost archetypal) choice
of subject and a typically South-
western rural setting, resultsin cre-
ating what critic Richard Shiff de-
scribes as, “forms which the artist
feels, as much as sees, through the
process of creating them by hand.”

Indeed, Russ Warren’s paint-
ings do convey deep emotional
sentiments. “Don’t Be Lazy,”
which depicts primitively ab-
stracted persons farming the land,
presents a clear message about the
importance of community and

man’s perpetually evolving coex-
istence with his natural surround-
ings. “Images From Heaven and
Hell,” explores man’s inner
struggle to understand events after
death.

Critiques aside, probably the
best thing about this exhibit is that
it is something for everyone to
appreciate.

To quote the man himself,
“Aesthetically, there’s enough caf-
feine in this show to wake people
up!” You need not be a scholarly
authority on art or a Sotherby’s
appraiser to enjoy this one. Go
check it out.

Photo by Casey Rogers

Flip Side

Nothing intoxicating about the Gin Blossoms! "Experience"

With the hit single “Hey Jeal-
ousy,” the Arizona rock group Gin
Blossoms have grabbed a foothold
in the fickle American airways.
And whether or not they want to
admit it, they have groups like the
Spin Doctors and 10,000 Maniacs
to thank for their success. Their
major label debut album, New Mis-
erable Experience, came outa year
ago with almost no promotion and
modestsales. As that album floun-
dered, the Spin Doctors and other
addictive guitar pop groups began
to sell like mad. In this environ-
ment, A & M records decided that
the Gin Blossoms deserveda fight-
ing chance. New Miserable Expe-

rience got, inthe record company’s
words, a “New Miserable Cover”
to replace the already-tacky origi-

‘Tom
Bavis

nal one, andthe radio friendly “Hey
Jealousy” was released with an
MTV-ready video. Thus the Gin
Blossoms got their big chance and
it was time for American listeners
to pass judgment.

To find out how this story
ends, just listen to any pop or rock

station this week for about 30 min-
utes. By then you will have cer-
tainly heard “Hey Jealousy” and
its sing-along chorus “Tomorrow
we could drive around this town
and let the cops chase us around...”

People who buy New Miser-
able Experience based on the sound
of “Hey Jealousy” probably won’t
be too disappointed. Unfortu-
nately, New Miserable Experience
relies upon, and rarely breaks free
of, the song’s medium tempo, two-

guitar, watered-down R.E.M. ap-
proach that has catapulted them to
Star status.

Two songs manage to break
the mold. The first, “Cajun Song,”
is self explanatory: a guest accor-
dion player injects some soulful
cajun solos that keep the song ex-
citing. The other oddity is
“Cheatin,’” 4 pop-country ditty that
would do well between Garth and
Wynnona on the Country station.
It even has one of those classic

country lines: “You can’t call it
cheatin’, ‘cause she reminded me
of you.” Cute, if you’re not the
girlfriend.

Beyond that, the Gin Blos-
soms debut is a catchy but redun-
dant and cliched string of angst- ©
ridden guitar rock songs. The Spin
Doctors without a groove, if you
will. “The lost horizons I can see
are filled with bars and factories,
and in them all we fight to stay
awake.” Indeed.

Calendar
ON THE SCENE

More look to piercing

Piercing continued from page 11

it’s important to make sure that the
procedure is done by a professional.
Propst herself works at a Charlotte
clothing store called Superior Feet.
In the article, she says that tongues
and nipples are the most difficult
areas to pierce. With the tongue, it
is important to be careful to avoid
poking the needle through a vein
or the web of a tongue.

This is all a few steps away
from anything I imagined in the
sixth grade. At the time, I felt
completely elated at the idea that I
could put jewelry through my ear.
Inacountry where a large majority
of women have their ears pierced,

I wasn’t doing anything particu-
larly special or uncommon.

A lot of people react strongly
to piercing body parts other than
the ears, as if somehow the ears are
okay but other parts aren’t. It is
important to remember, however,
that there is no difference between
having one’s ears pierced and hav-
ing any other part pierced. It is all
part of the body, whether it is the
ear or the navel. Because having
pierced ears isa common tradition
in American society, we think noth-
ing of it.

It is a cultural phenomenon.
Having one’s body pierced
shouldn’t be a curiosity, it is a
personal choice.

BIKE SALE

October 6, 1993

Bikes that have been picked up
by the campus police and
stored over the last six months
will be sold on a sealed bid ba-
sis. All sales will be final.

Bids can be placed from
9:00am-4:00pm at the DCPD.

Compiled by Rachel Newcomb

Pump Boys and Dinettes.

MOVIES/THEATER/DANCE

Dangerous Liasons. Wednesday, Sep. 22 at 9:30 p.m. Fri, Sep. 24 at 8:00 p.m. 900 Room.
Sponsored by Vance Theatrical Organization. Sep. 24-26 at Pease
Auditorium CPCC. Call 545-3581 for more info.
Theatre Kaitaisha. An avant-garde theater troupe from Tokyo, presented by Innovative Theatre. Sep.
19-20. Park Elevator Club, Charlotte. Call 372-7469.
42nd Street. Touring production of the Broadway musical. Sep. 21-26. 8 p.m. Belk Theater, North
Carolina Blumenthal Performing Arts Center. Call 522-6500 to charge by phone.

MISCELLANEOUS/SPEAKERS/MEETINGS
Habitat for Humanity. Mon, Sep. 20. 7:00 p.m. Big Screen Room.

The Rev. Dr. Dan Via Staley Lecturer. “What can we know and how can we know about the historical
Jesus?” Mon, Sep. 20. 900 Room. 7:30 p.m.

- Coffeehouse. Tues, Sep. 21. 900 Room. 8:30 a.m. - 11:00 a.m.
Discussion with Reverend Margaret Via. Meeting with women informally ina group setting to discuss
opportunities for ministry. Tues, Sep. 21. 3:00 p.m. Big Screen Room.

21 Year Olds Night. 10:30 p.m._900 Room..
UNIV. OF GLASGOW, SCOTLAND. Information meeting with representative from Glasgow
University, Scotland. 2:30 p.m. Thurs, Sep. 23. Morrison Room.
FAC for Senior Class. Senior Apartments. Fri, 9/24/93. Sponsored by SGA and Residence Life.
Women’s Forum for Patterson Court. Three 20 minute skits introducing freshwomen to Connor,
Rusk & Warner Hall. 4:30 p.m. Saturday, Sept. 25. Love Auditorium.

Vesper Service. Sun, Sep. 26. 10:00 p.m. 900 Room.

MUSEUMS/EXHIBITS/ART

The Nature Museum. Charlotte. Hands on exhibits, live animals, nature trail & puppet theater. Call
337-2660 for more info.

Reedy Creek Environmental Center. Reedy Creek Park, Charlotte. Hands-on exhibits, one mile
nature trail, naturalist lab. Environmental programs and Saturday science workshops, guided nature
walks. Call 598-8857 for more details.

23 Studio. Charlotte. 3205 N. Davidson St. “Only in the Walk Thru Areas,” new works by Frank Haas,
Bob Robertson, Mike the Tryke and Lepton Neutrino; plus “Icons of the Modern World,” works by Jerry
Kirk, through Sep. 29. Call 347-0723 for more info.

Davidson College Art Galleries. Visual Arts Center. Works by studio art professors Herb Jackson, Cort
Savage and Russ Warren, through Oct. 31. Call 892-2185 for more details.

UNC Charlotte Galleries. Cone Center Gallery, Cone University Center; “Energies, Auras, Elements,”
black and white photography by Joan May, plus works in clay by Geri Camarda. Call 547-2521 for more.

MUSIC

They Might Be Giants. Appearing at the Pterodactyl Club, Mon. Sep. 20. Charlotte. This is a aquirky,
slightly nerdy innovative band that I used to like in high school. I bet it would be a fun show to go to.
Aerosmith. Appearing with 4 Non Blondes. 8 p.m. Sept. 24. Charlotte Coliseum. Call 522-6500 to
charge by phone.

Mighty Rhythm Kings. At the Double Door Inn. Charlotte. Mon, Sep. 20.

