10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS MONDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1993

Seay Rations: Nathan Seay
I survived apartment inspections,

and I have a t-shirt to prove it.

I want the world to know that my apart-
ment has pulled off the biggest reversal of
fortune since Claus Von Bulow. (That may
not make any sense, but I’m too happy to
care.) Before I get ahead of myself, let me
give everyone some background informa-
tion.

Everyone living in the senior apart-
ments has been subjected to “apartment
inspections” over the past month. This
horrified my roommates and me, because
we live in the biggest health hazard on
campus.

Our anguish intensified when the news
reached us that the inspection people were
actually taking this thing seriously. The
most anal retentive people guys I knew were
failing their inspection. I even heard that
girls weren’t passing. It seemed that only
anal retentive girls could get their apart-
ments by the magnifying glass of the RLO.
In short, we were doomed.

Let me explain just exactly what our
apartment looked like a few weeks ago. The
apartment I live in tends to swing to the left
side of the political spectrum. That means
that we can throw nothing away.

Unfortunately, none of us is such a tree
hugger that we will carry an armload of
newspapers (or even an aluminum can) to
the recycling bin fifty yards away from our

apartment. The result? Our porch has
become our recycling bin. (Yes, our entire
porch.) Ihad forgotten what color our porch
was because of all the stuff on it. After the
bulldozer moved the heap of cheap beer
containers and newspapers, it looked a lot
browner than everyone else.s porch.

Our refrigerator was another horror

‘story. The bottom shelf was covered by this

red stuff that was turning green. I think that
it was cherry Kool-Aid in a former life, but
I wouldn’t bet money on it. The lower
section (what I like to refer to as the forget-
me-not drawer) contained what used to be
two heads of lettuce. Atleast that’s what the
plastic wrappers said (those things never
decompose). What it resembles now is a big
pool of brown Jell-O.

My job was to clean out the shower.
This was-far and away the most challenging
thing I have come up against since starting
my career at Davidson. We made a special
roadtrip all the way to Cornelius to buy a big
(33% more FREE) bottle of Tilex and a
scrub brush. With these primitive tools I
tackled a job that was too big for Mr. T.
Biology classes made field trips to our bath-
room to examine the new genuses of mold
and mildew evolving where I put my bare
feet every morning. There was more hair in
the drain than I have on my head. When I

first looked at the shower floor, I thought
Richard Simmons was climbing out of the
drain head first.

[had never used Tilex before, and read
the warning label. It went something like
this: THIS STUFF CAN PEEL THE PAINT
OFF YOUR CAR. IT CAN KILL SMALL
MAMMALS AT TEN FEET. USE ONLY
IF YOU REALLY, REALLY CAN’T USE
ANYTHING LESS DANGEROUS. Well,
I didn’t fully understand what it was trying
to tell me, so I unloaded half the bottle on
everything with spores. Let me just say that
Tilex is slightly unpleasant to anyone who
has eyes, a nose,.or a mouth. It’s just my
luck that I have all three; I was just thankful
that I wasn’t one of those lounge singers on
Battlestar Galacticawith four eyes and two
mouths. (If you know exactly to what I’m
referring, I’m scared of you.)

I scrubbed my behind off while the
Tilex was at work scrubbing my skin off._I
started to feel woozy, but thought nothing of

(Besides, I was beginning to see the
music.) The psychedelic effect was pleas-
ant at first, but I soon lost all grasp of reality.
I started screaming, “I have a future! I can
reach the standard of living my parents
have! Ihave job skills! I had a conversation
with a girl today!” My roommates, hearing
what was coming out of my mouth, were
certain that something was dreadfully wrong
and dragged me kicking and screaming to
the fresh air and the real world.

After the shower, Icleaned up the toilet.
This was yet another scary thing. We had
not even considered cleaning the toilet since
day one. Again, it was Tilex and me vs. a

bunch of nasty porcelain. I scraped off three
months of drunken misaimings and sober
sheddings. It didn’t really bother me to
touch all this stuff that a more intelligent
man would cringe at. The Tilex was giving
me an out-of-body experience, and I couldn’t
really see straight.

The penultimate stage of clean-up was
vacuuming. We had to do this three times.
The first two didn’t take all the popcorn and
Cheerios off the carpet. (I wrote this only
because I was determined to use the word
“penultimate” at some point in my life.)

Finally, we had to move all the furniture
off our front porch that the RLO tells us is
not allowed out there. We put all this furni-
ture and other pieces of random clutter in
our room. I got the honor of holding some-
thing that a big fire was set on some week-
end night. Now my room and all my clothes
smell like a brush fire.

All told, it took the four of us— no, five
(it must be love) a total of five hours to make
our apartment into something even my
mother could love. To make a long story
short, we passed the inspection with flying
colors. The inspection guys were impressed
because word had gotten around that our
apartment was voted “Most Likely to Be a
Breeding Ground for Disease.”

It was fun and all, but I don’t think that
we’ll do that again until we have to. Any of
you are more than welcome to stop by and
look at our spotless pad (can we say “beg-
ging for friends?”) before we have time
enough to dirty it up too much. I'll probably
be in the shower with a bottle of Tilex. That
stuff packs a mean buzz.

Semester in Exile:
Chris Frampton

You area
suave guy.

Intent.

A tricky problem. Plagued by your
esteemed satirist last week who has done so
since the days of Rude Notes and Random
Scriblings, to all of those who have prob-
lems understanding when to laugh and when
to call mom and whine, I have but one thing
to say: grow a sense of humor.

Moving on. -Here is the scenario:

A party. Beer. Various bottles of
alcohol. Cool guys. Cute womyn. Cute
boys. And they are drunk. Really, really
drunk. And there are signs that the boys
have been hitting the liquor a little hard.

You could say that these signs are simi-
lar to those when a womyn becomes quite
wasted. But you’d be wrong.

When a womyn finds herself in the
realm of the blackout, there are two signs:
she gets right up in your face when she talks
to you and she slurs.

Now a boy does this, too, but it’s differ-
ent. He slurs, he gets in your face, and his
mind is thinking, I’m gonna get me some.
Why does he think that, because the womyn
is talking to him. When drunk, this is the
only encouragement his inspired libido needs
to rev up and kick in the cheese.

But who would want to hook up with a
really drunk boy. He sweats like a stuck pig.
The grease in his hair could be used to fry an
egg. He keeps tucking in the right side of his
shirt, trying to look good for his potential
victim, but he can’t remember to tuck in the
left side. Basically, he looks like a pig in
heat, which is appropriate considering the
cumulative effect of shooting half a bottle of
Jaegermeister turns him into sort of an im-
pulse, hormone guided radar. (Beep, beep,
beep, babe.)

Another one of the sure signs that the
boy has what you might call a strong buzz is
the utterance of three little words. Essen-
tially, guys have a plan for finding them-

WHILE M

NOW 6 A GOOD BOY
ANS PLY ATTENTION TO
THE Ce boy

MOMMY

DDY ARE OUT...

selves a wife. The stages can in fact be easily
paralleled with the strategy for attaining the
ultimate goal of a boy’s drunken evening,
play.

While sober, he is subtle, giving few
clues to the womyn of his dreams, or at least
of his evening, that he is interested in her.
She is a little interested, at least to the point
of being willing to sit through the next stage
of his pursuit, the talk.

Now when pursuing a wife, this means
he calls at the right time, he says the right
thing, he does the right thing. When drink-
ing, this stage sets the boy in the position of
being mildly charming. (Really, just fun to
laugh at.) But the girl's interest encourages
the libido and he begins to talk more.

When drunk, this means the womyn
begins to look for her friends. In the mar-
riage game, this means she stops returning
his calls, But there are few boys able to

handle the thought that their efforts have
been for naught. In the wife hunt, he will call
her even more, start saying things too often,
and trying too hard to be cute. In the pursuit
ofa little noogy, he starts to sweat and tucks
in the right side of his shirt.

Of course, at this point, the womyn gets
alittle scared. This.is usually when the wife
Starts to say things like, “I’m scared by
what’s going on, maybe we should back off
alittle.” Basically, she’s giving him an easy
way out, trying to avoid saying, “Get away,
you funny looking little boy.”

Inthe meat hunt, she starts dancing with
anyone who will dance with her. This is
usually when the guy does a little jig and
then begs her to come back with him to his
room.

Now, of course she says no, so he has to
resort to that last, desperate move. He takes
the ultimate risk. At times successful in the

wife hunt, saying those three little words, “I
love you,” to a girl on the dance floor is
never an effective strategy. Why? Well, for
one, the womyn laughs, and laughs hard.
Then she tells her friends, who tell the boy’s
friends, who later circle around their desper-
ately ruined friend and sing songs of love in
an elaborate way of picking on the poor
sucker.

His life ruined, he heads to the Outpost
alone, hungry and no longer in the mood to
take his core requirements.

Editor's note: Chris Frampton, a senior-
to-be, is a nice guy, but we want to now
distance ourselves from his opinion. As

far as we are concerned this guy is on

some type of pain killer whenever he
writes this stuff, and we are really sick of
the core requirements joke. Only out of
pity do we allow him to continue writing.
