6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Washington

US. bears guilt for Balkan tragedy

By Brett Marston

The relative quiet in Wash-
ington regarding the-war in the
Balkans proves that the chances of
U.S. intervention in the region have
dwindled into insignificance.

According to a recent New
York Times report, negotiators are
optimistic about the prospects for
a peace settlement within the next
week. Most analysts agree, how-
ever, that the U.S. and its Western
allies are partly responsible for the
fact that this gruesome war started,
and must bear some of the burden
for the fact that it has continued for
so long.

Many analysts go even fur-
ther and claim that U.S. policy
toward the former Yugoslavian re-
publics has been dangerously mis-
guided at best, and viciously irre-
sponsible at worst.

If the international commu-
nity had responded to the disinte-
gration of Yugoslavia in 1990,
when a crisis began to become
unavoidable, argues Professor
Steven L. Burg of Brandeis Uni-
versity in the November issue of
Current History, then a peaceful
resolution of conflicting territorial
claims might have been possible.

“However,” Burg continues,
“forceful action by either Yugoslav
leaders or American and European
administrators would have required
innovative thinking about some of
the most basic principles of the
international system and the post-
cold war security framework in the
Euro-Atlantic community.”

The ethnic violence in ex-
Yugoslavia, Burg contends, has
shown that there are fundamental
contradictions between certain
principles, such as the principles
of self-determination and territo-

rial sovereignty, which are con-
tained in the U.N. charter, and that
the post cold-war international situ-
ation will require that leaders de-
velop new “diplomatic and politi-
cal mechanisms” for coping with
these contradictions.

Combined with the specter of
instability among the republics of
the former Soviet Union, these
conceptual problems created an
extremely complicated foreign re-.
lations problem for the Bush and

"Multilateralism has
become a cover for
U.S. retrenchment and
the abandonment of
leadership to
the vagaries of
international events"

Clinton administrations.

Nonetheless, most analysts
argue, the U.S. has been frustrat-
ingly inconsistent in its policies
toward the Balkans.

Fighting in  Bosnia-
Herzegovina began in March of
1992, shortly after Bosnians, who
were roughly 44 percent ethnic
Muslim, 31 percent Serbian, and
17 percent Croatian, voted to se-
cede from the rest of Yugoslavia.
Mostall ofthe Bosnian Serbs, how-
ever, voted against Bosnian inde-
pendence, fearing, rightly or not,
that they would suffer under pre-
dominantly Muslim rule of a
Bosnian state.

In an attempt to avoid military
conflict in Bosnia, the EC pro-
posed a partitioning of Bosnia into
ethnic cantons. Bosnian leaders,
apparently interpreting American

pressure to reject the proposal as a
pledge for military support should
war ensue, rejected the proposal,

As fighting in Bosnia dragged
on, however, Bosnian leaders be-
gan to realize that they had been.
deceived in their hopes for Ameri-
can military support.

This summer, Clinton seemed
on the verge of ordering American
air strikes of Serbian targets out-
side of the besieged Bosnian capi-
tol, Sarajevo.

When European allies refused

to support such a proposal, Clin- °

ton backed down, raising suspi-
cions that American emphasis on
“multilateralism” only serves to
hide our lack of desire to get mili-
tarily involved in any violent con-
flict.

“Multilateralism has become
acover for U.S. retrenchment and
the abandonment of leadership to
the vagaries of international
events,” contends Sen. Richard G.
Lugar, R-Ind., quoted in the Au-

gust 21st issue of Congressional
Quarterly,

Clearly, public outcry over a
relative handful of American
deaths in Somalia served to prove
to American politicians, and the
already cynical Serbs, that U.S.
leaders may like to talk tough in
foreign policy, but that their hands
will be tied by a vocal public.

This Christmas, at least in part,
we have Bosnia on our conscience.

Sources: R. Tucker and D.
Hendrickson, “America and
Bosnia,” in The National
Interest, Fall 1993; Current
History, Nov. 1993; The Con-
gressional Quarterly; Commen-
tary, Dec. 1993; and the New
York Times.

The Dean Rusk Program
Morroco's future is not so bright these days

By Andy Barwig

The monarchy of King Hassan
Il is not so comfortable in the huge
palaces in Rabat.

The king has the right to be
concerned about the rising tide of
Islamic fundamentalism in the
Middle East and particularly in
North Africa. Algeria has been in
a state of low-intensity civil war
against the forces of the Islamic
Salvation Front.

Morocco’s relations with Al-
geria have soured because of the
unrest exported from Algeria; how-
ever, stability in Algeria is essen-
tial for Morocco’s goals in the com-
ing years.

Terrorism and the Gulf War
have been extremely harmful to
tourism in the Middle East. Egypt
has been plagued by a militant
fundamentalist campaign that
strikes at Egypt’s most profitable
industry: tourism.

Tourism has also been greatly
affected in Morocco. Hotels have
operated at a minute fraction of
their capacity. Revenue from the
tourism industry is needed forsome
of Morocco’s dire economic and
financial conditions.

The state of the Moroccan
economy has been in decline for
the last couple years. Drought

conditions for the past two years
have resulted in poor harvests. A
decline in investment has caused a
rise in unemployment. One of the
most important challenges to
Hassan is to draw a budget that will
reduce these problems.

One of the solutions that Mo-
rocco has been keenly pursuing is
economic integration with the Eu-
ropean Community. Morocco has

. Made many gestures towards Spain

and the EC markets to attract Euro-
pean interests.

Hassan has made significant
strides to liberalize the economy
and increase privatization. King
Hassan is more interested in build-
ing unity with Europe than other
Maghreb nations such as Algeria,
Tunisia and Mauritania. Hassan is
walking a tightrope between
Morocco’s western affiliation and
Morocco’s Arab identity.

The role of Morocco in the
Middle East has been quite differ-
ent from some of the radical and
anti-Zionist policies of other Arab
regimes. After the PLO-Israeli
peace settlement was signed in
Washington, Israeli prime minis-
ter Rabin met with Morocco’s King
Hassan the next day to further gain
support for the agreement.

Morocco is confronted witha

host of domestic problems. The
longest and most disputed involves
the territory of the Western Sahara
which Morocco supposedly an-
nexed in 1975.

The resistance to Morocco’s
occupation of the Western Sahara
is the Polisario which supports an
independent state for the Western
Sahara. Hassan has delayed a na-
tional referendum on the Western
Sahara as the government refuses
to recognize the Polisario which
Algeria supports.

The future of Morocco in
North Africa has both ominous
and optimistic signs. King Hassan

promised an overhaul of the

country’s political system. The re-
cent elections have proved that
King Hassan possesses a genuine
mystical hold over his kingdom.

The forces of radical Islam
have become the most potent op-
position force to the North African
nation, however. Morocco has be-
come a bulwark against Islamic
fundamentalism and a main ally of
the West in an extremely volatile
region. =

We dedicate this article to our
Arts Editor, Rachel Newcomb,
who will be spending spring
semester abroad in Morocco.

MONDAY, DECEMBER 13, 1993

LSE WHERE

NOTES

Smoke it if you've got it

' “Dr. Joycelyn Elders [U.S. Surgeon General] thinks that legaliza-
tion of narcotics would reduce crime and generally is so impressed with
the idea that she wants ‘studies’ to be made.

“‘Studies’ is a pretty word for the road to legalization. The onl
further study with any meaning would be to see how it works in th
U.S.--buying, selling and using narcotics, openly, without penalty.

“Morally, forgive the sardonic word, legalization is a bottom-lin
approach to drug abuse: fighting drugs is difficult and expensive, w
are losing, so let’s give in. If they want to use drugs, save money an
trouble by letting them do it. Crime will decrease because drug gan
will go out of business and. the stuff will be so cheap and available
everywhere that addicts will not have to steal or mug to get it.

“The bottom-line attitude is callous to the point of cruelty. It also
won’t work. It is based on ignorance or distortion of drug realities.”

- from A.M. Rosenthal’s opinion piece in the Op-ed page of the
Friday, December 10 New York Times.

The sound of a winner

“Because he seems incapable of rationing himself, Clinton is
always going to give his political opponents words and deeds they can
turn on him. But good or bad, depending on the day, the man is lookin
larger than life, which is the way presidents should look. The lates'
flap--a laugher, I think--is that he was mean to the press and shoute
at editors of Rolling Stone. It seems, he thinks, that ‘knee-jerk liberals’
are not helping him as much as they should, because in the end he is th
best hope for their policies and agenda. What else is new?

“The most telling parts of the same Rolling Stone interview b
Jann Wenner and William Greider came when they asked Clinton th
standard question about how he likes the job, whether he was ‘havin
fun.’ He could hardly contain himself. “You bet. I like it very much
I genuinely enjoy it. . . . It’s exhilarating to have the opportunity and
obligation to try every day.’

“That is the sound of a winner. And right now Bill Clinton is was)
ahead of whoever is in second place.”

-from the Perspective Section of the Sunday, December SAtlanta
Journal/Constitution.

The somber decade?

“It’s a serious, edgy, transitional time, shot through with ambigu-
ities and contradictions: Less celebration of wealth than before but an}
ever-growing gap between the well-off and the poor. More equitable
relations between the sexes but not necessarily between the races. A
post-Cold War feeling of relief complicated by a world full of national,
ethnic and religious conflict. More talk about responsive, open
government but no less influence by special interests.

“Ever since the waning days of 1989, commentators have been|
trying futilely to find an all-encompassing characterization for the
790s.

“Maybe it’s the Practical Decade, they suggest. The Decade of
Re-evaluation? The Decency Decade? The Empowerment Decade?
The Snoring ’90s? The Years of Confusion?

“Pretty somber stuff.”

-from a commentary in Sunday’s Charlotte Observer.

Civilization gone rotten

“America is not in danger of becoming a Third World country; we
are too rich, too proud and too strong to allow that to happen. Many
people live will, decently, even honorably. There are places where
virtue is taught and learned. But there is a lot less of this than there
ought to be. 4

“The U.S. ranks near the top in the industrialized world in its rates
of abortion, divorce and unwed births. We lead the industrialized
-world in murder, rape and violent crime. And in elementary and
secondary education, we are at or near the bottom in achievement
scores.

“But there are other signs of decay, ones that do not so easily lend
themselves to quantitative analyses. There is coarseness, a callous-
ness, a cynicism, a banality and vulgarity to our time.

“There are too many signs of a civilization gone rotten. And the
worst of it has to do with our children: We live in a culture that at times]
seems almost dedicated to the corruption of the young, to ensuring the
loss of their innocence before their time.”

-from the Friday, December 10 issue of The Wall Street Journal.

