6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

The Week in Washington
US. freezes Haitian assets as situation worsens

By Brett Marston

Reimposing a freeze on Hai-
tian assets in the U.S. last week,
the Clinton Administration in-
creased its efforts to force the mili-
tary regime of General Raoul
Cédrasto relinquish power in Haiti.
The U.S. is Haiti’s leading trading
partner, as well as the main foreign
banking center for Haitians. In
June, after the U.N. imposed a ban
on the importation of oil products
to Haiti, the Treasury Department
froze the assets of the Haitian gov-
ernment and central bank.

A few weeks later, the mili-
tary government and ex-President
Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, who
was ousted by the military after he
won a landslide victory in Haiti’s
first democratic elections in 1991,
signed an agreement, according to
which the military leaders were to
resign and reinstate Aristide on
October 30th. The U.N. lifted its
embargo, and the U.S. suspended
the freeze on Haitian assets.

In the past few weeks, how-
ever, the situation in Haiti has
worsened. Cédras refused to step
down, and military forces assassi-
nated President Aristide’s Justice
Minister Guy Malary. Another
prominent Aristide supporter has

been reported missing.

The violence which has de-
fined Haitian politics for decades
threatens to continue. Brutal dic-
tators have terrorized the small,
impoverished country since French
colonial days.

The U.N. reimposed its em-
bargo on Oct. 18th. Last week, the
U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Vigilant
fired warning shots at the Don José,
amerchant ship which was headed
for Haitian shores. U.S. officials
then boarded the ship, which is
based in Turkey and the Caicos
Islands, and forced it to reverse
course after ship officers refused
to show them the entire cargo.

World leaders have continu-
ally asserted their intentions to re-
store the democratically elected
Aristide to power and to try to
bring stability to the Haiti. Until
the U.N. sanctions this year, how-
ever, the only concrete step taken
in this direction was a half-hearted
embargo by the Organization of
American States (OAS).

One significant factor for U.S.
policy to Haiti has been the pros-
pect of mass immigration from the
island to the Florida shores. Early
in 1992, as tens of thousands of
Haitians boarded rickety boats to

escape political persecution and
economic hardship, President Bush
ordered U.S. ships to intercept them

in international waters and send -

them back to Haiti, no questions
asked.

Bush argued that international
immigration accords, which pro-
hibit countries from refusing entry
to those who are in significant dan-
ger in their own country, only ap-
ply once those people leave inter-
national waters and enter the wa-
ters of the country they wish to
reach. U.S. courts upheld this claim.

President Clinton has consid-
ered using U.S. military force to
restore Aristide to power. Coupled
with the exodus of U.S. troops
from a difficult mission in Somalia
and the prospect of military inter-
vention in Bosnia, Clinton’s stance
on Haiti has sparked congressional
debate on the powers of the Presi-
dent to send troops into areas of
conflict.

Sources: The New York Times, _

Wall Street Journal, Christian
Science Monitor, Washington
Post, and “Dateline ‘{aiti:
Caribbean Stalemate,” Pamela
Constabel, in the winter 1992-93
issue of Foreign Policy.

The Dean Rusk Program
Pakistan faces change after elections

By Saad Gul

An air of dread hung over Pa-
kistan on October 6, 1993 as Paki-
stanis went to the polls for the
fourth time since 1985. When the
day passed without any untoward
incident, the country heavedasigh
of relief. Because of the intricacies
of the Electoral system, the exact
tally will not be known until after
the weekend, but the basic sce-
nario that has emerged has been
clear. As expected, the liberal Pa-

kistan Peoples' Party under former
Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto has
done well, winning above 80 seats
in a House of 217. More surpris-
ingly however, her chief rival, the
conservative Pakistan Muslim
League led by former Prime Min-
ister Nawaz Sharif came in virtu-
ally neck and neck, taking in about
75 seats.

Anumberofinteresting trends
have been revealed. The succes-
sive General Elections swept the

20465 Chartwell Ctr. Dr. Comelss, NC

Lunch 11;30am-2:00pm Mon-Fri
Dinner Sun-Thur 5-10pm
Fri-Sat 5-11pm

896-7778

® KOBE

JAPANESE tQUSE OF STEAKS SEAFOOD

KOBE 1st Anniversary
Come Celebrate Our Anniversary
through the month of October
Special Imperial Dinner for Two

Combination of:
\ Habachi Steak ON LY
-Habachi Shrimp $2995
-Sesame Chicken '
All Dinners Include: per couple
Soup « Salad » Shrimp Appetizer Save *15% off
Fried Rice » Vegetables menu price
Thank you for making our first t year a success!
offer good Oct. 1-3
_ L77 Exit28 N ea
Behind Norman Crossin Highway 73 28

Norman
Crossing fF

[=
gs

former plethora of “pape, parties”
off the political landscape, leaving
atwo party system. The evolution
towards a genuine two party sys-
tem seems to point towards the
maturation of democracy in the
country.

Another interesting fact seems
to have been the crushing defeatof
the fundamentalists. The first-
past-the-post system has become

_ the bane of life for the religious

parties; while doing very well in
terms of the number of votes cast,
their representation in parliament
seems destined to remain token.

The basic issue remained, as
in the United States, the economy.
Both parties invoked historical
images; Sharif’s conservatives
pointed to their successful rule in
the sixties, “decade of Develop-
ment,” which saw astronomical
growth rates and the best economic
performance of Pakistan to date.

Their detractors pointed tothe
massive inequality of wealth that
had developed during the decade,
and point to the PPP’s own suc-
cessful workers’ rights legislation
in the seventies. The conserva-
tives in their turn, were quick to
cite the economic stagnation of the
seventies.

The PML basically let their
record speak for themselves: tax
cuts, easy credit arrangements, at-
traction of foreign investment, and
Sharif’s personal trips to far flung
remote areas to “meet the people.”
The PPP countered by levelling
charges of “cronyism” and “sell-
outs” to capitalists, claiming they
could attract the same investment
on more favorable terms.

For all practical purposes how-
ever, there are almost no differ-
ences between the manifestoes of
both parties: in fact both parties
frequently appoint the same people

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1993

417 SEWHERI

NOTES

«_..The need to passa law to disarm children is a reminder of how
prevalent violence has become in America. Often young people
aren’t merely its perpetrators; they’re also its victims. Homicide is a
leading cause of death among America’s children, and the leading
cause among young black males.

"As with other childhood scourges, the best solution is preven-
tion. So if lawmakers are looking for a symbolic inspirational model
for the juvenile-justice reforms to come later, they should focus less
onthe frontier marshal forcibly disarming youthful gunslingers—and
more on a Jonas Salk figure whose mission is to prevent, to cure, to
heal."

-from the October 17, 1993 editorial pages of The Miami Herald

A greenhouse government
“It’s been said that no scientific theory gains public acceptance .

until ithas been thoroughly discredited. Nowhere is that notion better
illustrated than in the debate over so-called greenhouse gas emis-
sions, which was given new life on Tuesday by the Clinton
administration’s announcement of its plan to reduce these emissions.
While the plan has been treated to uncritical press coverage, few have
questioned its foundation and the massive costs it will impose on the
American public...

“Why is the administration suinhti this plan when many higher
priority issues remain unaddressed? To give them the benefit of the
doubt, the predictions of global warming have been pretty scary and,
if true, warrant some sort of reaction. But are they true?...

“Interestingly, in the mid-1970's, there was a similar debate
raging over climate. At that time, the fear was of an impending ice
age, ratherthananinferno. This might be an amusing footnote of little
historical interest but for one thing. The policies proposed to save us
from ice were identical to those now being proposed to save us from
fire. The predictions have changed but the prescriptions have not:
Government must grow so that energy consumption will shrink.”

-from “More Hot Air on Greenhouse Gases” by Kent Jeffries in
the October 22, 1993 editorial pages of The Wall Street Journal

Red Mountain doesn’t want your money

“When the federal government comes calling with a handout,
most cities and towns are glad to take it. But not Red Mountain, a
small village just north of North Carolina’s Research Triangle.

“Seems Durham County has been trying to give the town of Red
Mountain $613,000 in federal housing grants and interest-free loans
to spruce up its deteriorating homes and improve the image of the
Research Triangle environs.

“But the folds in Red Mountain say they don’t trust the govern-
mentand don’t want charity. Billy Parrish, whostill has an outhouse,
asked, ‘Why not give that money to someone who needs it more?’
Good question. Better yet, why not apply it to the national debt?”

-from the October 17, 1993 editorial pages of The State.

On the Cuban embargo

"Even the Castro regime is ambivalent about what might happen
if [the U.S. trade embargo] were lifted. 'It would solve our problems
of food and medicines,' Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina
noted recently. 'But it would create a huge problem with culture, with
the discussion of ideas and values. We would have to contend with
that.'

"Hmm. One wonders how Castro, Robaina & Co. could possibly
compete."

-from the October 17, 1993 editorial pages of The Atlanta

Journal & Constitution

to their cabinets. The only thing
they differ on is the extent of
privatization or the sale of state
owned units to the private sector.
The PML would like to divest all
current state holdings, while the
PPP would like to retain a few.
However, on the one issue that
places Pakistan on the world map,
the nuclear program, all parties are
unanimous. Nawaz Sharifsummed
up the view of all parties when he
told Time in April: “There can be
nosellout, unilateral signing of the
NPT, on the nuclear issue. The

.. government that does that cannot

face the people of Pakistan.” All
political parties subscribe to the
view that Pakistan will only sign
the NPT if India does the same.
Thereisa last observation con-
cerning the Pakistani election
which could affect the entire re-
gion. The Nawaz government, with
its impeccable conservative cre-
dentials, went ahead andimproved
relations with neighboring India,
relations which are vital not only
to the economic well-being of the
Indo-Pakistani economies, but the
stability and prosperity of the en-

. tire South Asian region.
