ARTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993

11

New Charlotte club opens with Belly and Radiohead on stage

By J. Larned &
Tom Mew

Last Tuesday night marked
the debut of the Capri, asomewhat
retro-looking venue which at one
time housed a Country and West-
ern dance hall and at another a B-
movie theater. Musical guests Belly
and Radiohead provided a worthy
bill for the birth of this new locale,
which hopefully will fill the void
left by the demise of the 13-13
club.

Radiohead began the show
witha barrage of blaring melodies,
designed to awaken even the most
complacent in the crowd. Lead
vocalist Thom Yorke was indeed a

_ forlorn individual as he wailed se-

“lections from the group’s debut
LP, Pablo Honey, and admonished
the inattentive and overzealous in
the crowd. At one point he even
stopped the show until some vio-
lent members of the audience were
removed.

Musically, the band was in
top form, no doubt a testament to
their adept touring skills. Lead
guitarist Jon Greenwood was a
shoe-gazer in the truest sense of
the phrase as he stood hunched
over his Telecaster, releasing a
_ potent blend of melody and feed-
back. -Highlightsincluded “Creep,”
which Yorke delivered lounge-act

style and introduced to the audi-
ence as “the reason you all came.”

the evening with her siren-like
voice and a friendly come-as-you-

just would not quit with its steady

bass line, which kept the audience
in a seemingly endless groove.

Also impressive was their current are stage presence. “Feed the Tree,” the initial hit off
U.K. release “Anyone Can Play The bassist meanwhile their debut album, Svar, also re-
Guitar,” inwhichGreenwoodtruly amused the throng with a display ceived a huge response. To top
lived up to the song’stitle by step- ofheavy-metalesqueantics,which things off, Tanya Donelly invited
ping out of his shell and allowing included handstands, cooing at none other than Thom Yorke to
listenerstopethisinstrument(gui- Tanya,andwearingherinstrument sing a stunning duet of
tar). Thesongswereall highlighted around her ankles. Pulling in the “Untogether.” It was a fitting end-
by an excellent light show which slack, lead guitarist Thomas _ ing toa perfect evening.
provided great visual effectsto go Gorman provided enough noise to Keep an eye out for upcoming
along with the music. leave many of the group’s fans showsatthe Capri. The way things
As if things could not have feeling more than satisfied after went Tuesday night, this venue
gotten any better, Belly took the the show. should prove to bea promising one
stage to work the crowd into a ___ Indeed the group had some- _ indeed. Also, if youhave notheard
veritable frenzy. Tanya Donelly, thing going on, as was evident in _ selections from any of these bands,
Belly’s lead vocalist and rhythm _ theirtwo fulfilling sets.“Gepetto” donothesitatetotakea listen. You
guitarist, was clearly the darling of will be pleasantly surprised.

Still Whistlin' Dixie
Country
doesn't need

CMA awards |

By Geoff Graham
The Country Music Associa-

tion hosted their big awards cel-

ebration Wednesday night. If you
forgot about it, don’t fret. You
didn’t miss much. If you do care,
here’s what happened:

Vince Gill won everything
worth winning. Everybody else
that deserved to didn’t.

Now, I love the United States.
This democratic thing we’ve got
going seems to do the trick. Occa-
sionally, however, the system
breaks down. We might fight a
war over coffee beans off in Peru.
We might pass a law making it
illegal for everyone to drink beer.
We might even elect a moron or
two to office somewhere in Wash-
ington. How do these things hap-

pen? Ignorance, plain and simple.

This is what I’m talking about.
How does a joker like Vince Gill
win all these awards when there
are kings and queens out there
worthy of recognition? What about
Steve Wariner, Marla Bee Shoe-
maker, and Suzy Bogguss? What
about Alan Jackson?

As far as I can tell, a knowl-
edgeable group votes on it. Why,
then, do people like Vince win?
How can songslike “Achy Breaky
Heart” and “Money in the Bank”
remain number one for weeks,
when guys like ole Radney are
singing “Easier Said Than Done”
to half filled auditoriums? How?
Ignorance, plain and simple.

I don’t even know why I let it
bother me. It’s not as if we can
pick a “best” artist. They all have
their merits. Besides, a competi-
tion does nothing but single out
one winner. And naming one win-
ner only creates a bunch of losers.
Who wants that?

Ballots, votes, and elections—
These are all good and well for
governments. We need a presi-
dent. So what if there’s a little
corruption here and there? As long
as I don’t have to listen to them
sing, they can have their occasional
trips to the Grand Caymans.

Country music, however, is a

See Dixie on page 12

_ The Meat Debate

It's simple.
Meat is good and
vegetables aren't.

By Wells Black

Well, I am supposed to be writing about
why people eat meat. I don’t know about other
people, but I can tell you why Ieatit. It’s simple;
it tastes good. There is nothing better than
sitting down at the table at home to eat a steak
that I just cooked on the grill on the back porch.
I am not talking about those disgusting little
steaks that we used to get in the Commons when
we were freshmen (freshpeople; sorry, I forgot
it is necessary to be politically correct at
Davidson). I mean a steak that is about an inch
thick, preferably a ribeye, that has been sprinkled
with a little garlic salt and cooked so that it is a
little pink on the inside. With it there must be a
big baked potato piping hot, just out of the oven,
and smothered in melted butter. Now that’s a
meal.

Some people think that it is wrong to eat
meat. That makes about as much sense as a
football bat. Still, if you are a vegetarian, more
power to you. There is nothing wrong with that.
You just happen to be missing out on one of
life’s simple pleasures. Oh well, your loss.

Vegetables are something I just do not eat.
Why don’t I eat vegetables? That’s simple, too.
Vegetables taste bad. I have tried to eat salads,
but they make me gag. When you were a little
kid, did you ever chew on a piece of grass?
Maybe not, but I did, and it’s not that great.
That’s what lettuce tastes like to me—grass.
Cows eat grass, people don’t.

My parents tried to make me sit at the table
until I finished my vegies, but it simply did not
work. Basically, they had to give up.

I avoid eating vegetables at all cost. At
lunch at my fraternity house, we occasionally
have these little, round pizzas that have all kinds
of vegetables on them. I scrape off every single
one of them before taking a bite. It seems like
every time we eat those things, I sit next to
someone who can’t believe what I am doing. If
Idon’t, Icancount on Rod Carter to question my
eating habits.

By the way, squash is a vegetable that I
simply don’t understand. It looks like a diseased
cucumber.

Still, it is undeniable that vegetables are
healthy. I realize that if I don’t start eating them
I may die young. I’ve begun trying to force
myself to eat salads, but I am not doing a good
job. Salads still remind me of grass. At any rate,
you militant vegetarians should try to under-
stand all of us meat-lovers. (Can vegetarians be
militant?) Meat is good.

Well, I gotta go. The grill is heated up, and

Ihave a big, juicy ribeye waiting for me.

Meat, it's what's for dinner some say. Others disagree, and the debate rages on.

Vegetarians reap
the rewards of their
eating habits.

By Lillian Roe

I realize that many of you who know me
are probably shaking your heads right now as
you learn that I am writing an article on being
avegetarian. But wait! This is nota sermon on
the evils of eating animal flesh in an attempt to
convert the Davidson student body to a veg-
etarian society; it is simply an explanation of
the reasons why many people choose not to eat
meat and an effort to clear any misconceptions
people might have about vegetarians.

Vegetarianism has gone from being al-
most unheard of in our country ten or twenty
years ago, to being almost trendy in our society
today. In 1992, the number of vegetarians on
the Davidson campus was 7.5 %, and I would
not be surprised if that number were much
larger today. But why are people making this

‘decision not to eat meat?

The practice of not eating meat is not a
new one in the world. In fact, most of the
people in our world have a vegetarian diet.
Third-world countries do not eat meat on a
regular basis because they do not have the
economic resources or amount of land space
needed to raise livestock. ,

Ninety percent of India is vegetarian for
these reasons and for religious reasons as well.
Most Indians are Hindu, and Hindus not only
hold the cow to be a sacred animal, but also
believe that at death you are reborn into an-
other life form. This new life form could be
anything from a blade of grass to achicken, and

* who would want to make the mistake of acci-
dentally eating great uncle John who was just
reincarnated as that chicken? By examining

these other cultures that do not eat meat, we
have been able to analyze the practice of eating
meat in our own culture. Asa result, a number
of arguments about the benefits of a meatless
diet have developed, and a number of vegetar-
ians have popped up in America.

One reason many people choose a vegetar-
ian diet is for health purposes. After World
War II, scientists began to do serious research
on vegetarian diets. In a study on diet and
culture, researchers found that the Vilcambas
of Equador, the Abkhasians of Pakistan, and
the Hunzas of the USSR have the longest life
expectancies in the world. The diets of these
groups consist of only 1.5% meat and dairy
products, and these people have very full and
active lives, showing no signs of degenerative
diseases. This study is just one that provoked
a closer study on the health benefits of not
eating meat.

It has now been discovered that the causes
of atherosclerosis can be attributed to the con-
sumption of meat. This disease causes the
arteries to become blocked by the fatty and
waxy deposits of meat and meat products build-
ing up on the inner walls. This makes the
arteries become narrower, therefore constrict-
ing the blood flow to the heart and brain,.
resulting in many cases of heart attacks or
strokes. Consequently, fifty percent of all
deaths in the U.S. are caused by heart attacks
and strokes.

Dean Ornish, a cardiovascular surgeon in
California, has developed a program for pa-
tients with heart trouble in which he actually
reverses the disease. He places the patients on
strict vegetarian diets and puts them on an
exercise program, using no medicine or drugs.
This program has had a remarkable success
rate, curing almost 95% of its patients.

See Vegies on page 12
