THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 8, 1993 ; 7

Che a apidsonian HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor.
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Ass't Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

WELLS BLOCK-Advertising Manager ~
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Time for a new house

Davidson has never been able to support three women’s eating houses.
But we have only tried once, and for only one semester. Now is the ideal time
to start another house and to keep the three we already have.

Consider: Rusk is strong. It always has been and it always will be.
Connor is settling down with overwhelming membership numbers. Warner
Hall, on the other hand, does not have an overflow of members, but it is still
regarded highly and as an attractive choice. With these three houses meeting
the needs of many of our Davidson women, we are almost guaranteed that
many freshmen will join Connor, Rusk, and Warner Hall.

But we need another choice. Not only a another house insure more
representation for women on Patterson Court Council and SGA, but it would
offer a social alternative for women on the court. It would eliminate the

overcrowding of the popular houses which keeps women’s houses from
experiencing the same camaraderie that the fraternities experience.

Davidson upperclassmen can support four houses. Now the question is:
can the freshmen? For so long the freshmen class has divided itself into half,
has split into two houses, and has left one house with minimal membership.
But now a computer will keep a balanced number of freshmen in each house
forcing a division of the freshmen class.

Does this system undermine the nature of self-selection, leaving the
house selection not to the individual but to a computer? Possibly. Women
could adopt an invitation system as employed by the fraternities to divide
freshmen. But this system is no more self-selecting than the computer
system.

It is important that we attempt to maintain four self-selective houses.
After the January self-selection, we will know whether or not the freshmen
are willing to participate in a truly self-selected four house Patterson Court
for women..

We applaud the energy of the sophomores who are working to start anew
house. We have seen similar efforts exhibited two years ago by this year’s
seniors and we realize the determination it takes to get a new house started.
You have your work cut out for you--not only to open a house but also to
sustain a four house system.

The history of a women’s houses is a short one and should not dictate an
impossibility of more than two strong Patterson Court houses.

LETTERS

Davidson, stand for something

To the editors,

Is Davidson getting
swept up in the “politically
correct” movement that
seems tobe the popular trend
rightnow? As thethreesena-
tors who voted against the
October 26 SGA resolution
to extend trustee privileges
to non-Christians, we cer-
tainly hope not.

Most students first
choose to come to Davidson
because of an atmosphere
and character that are dis-
tinctively Davidson. For
some, itis the integrity of the
Honor Code. Forothers, itis
the caring community of the

college. While not all
Davidson students cite
Davidson’s heritage and re-
lationship to the Presbyte-
rian Church as a reason for
attending, nearly all will
mentiona favorable attribute
created as a by-product of
that very relationship. The
Presbyterian Church played
an irreplaceable role in the
formation of what Davidson
is today. To ignore and dis-
miss that role is to jeopar-
dize the many attributes of
this college that are distinc-
tively Davidson.

We came to Davidson
knowing it is a Christian

school and happy that it is
not a secular school. There
are many Williams’,
Amherst’s, and Wesleyan’s
out there, but Davidson has
gained prestige because it is
unique and not just another
secularized school where
“anything goes.” If dissatis-
fied Davidson students read
any promotional material
before deciding to come
here, they should know that
Davidson is unique in that it
respects tradition. If we had
wanted an intensely secular
school, we would not have

See Church on page 10

A Modest Proposal

To the editors,

My joy at receiving the
new Davidsonian was de-
molished--and then some--
by the letter from Dr. Kaylor,
Professor of Religion. Ican-
not know what the intentions
were in writing such an ill-
considered, non-parodic
piece, but the effect, I think,
is discriminatory. The letter
claims that the new Tele-
phone Directory cover sug-
gests an image of a depen-
dent woman hanging onto
the man at the other end of
the line. Of course, this in-
terpretation is only offered
to prevent the reader from

seeing the true meaning of
the artwork.

The text, addressed to
"Sam," is not necessarily
addressed to a man, as Dr.
Kaylor would try to have us
believe. Like many white,
heterosexual males in aca-
demia, he has created a re-
strictive interpretation in an
effort to cloak the obvious
gay/lesbian overtones of the
image, .overtones._Kaylor
finds deeply disturbing, per-
haps even threatening. Af-
ter twenty years of coeduca-
tion at Davidson, the woman
on the phone and
"Samantha" are sharing a

moment of pride, a moment
Kaylor dismisses as weak
only because of his insis-
tence ona phallocentric, pa-
triarchal--yea, testosterone-
infused--view of the world.

Perhaps’ Kaylor's
homophobia would be toler-
ated at other schools, but at
Davidson we are open-
minded, multicultural, het-
erogenous, politically-
aware, super-duper-diverse
community of learners. Dr.
Kaylor owes this commu-
nity an apology, plus maybe
some Ben & Jerry's.

Sincerely,

C. Andrew Peery

The reality of the invisble man

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

To the editors,

If I may I'd like to ad-
dress Rafael and Travis di-
rectly regarding their Oct.
25 article.

Rafaeland Travis, upon
reading your article "Imag-
ine," Isatback onthe couch,
closed my eyes and did my
best to do just that. I pic-
tured myself as a black
woman: what I might look
like, how that look might
changethe way I'dbe treated,
or the way I'd feel on cam-
pus and beyond. Of course
sucha reality, when notone's
own, is impossible to cap-
ture with the imagination,
but I tried anyway hoping it
might contribute to my un-
derstanding of the Black
struggle.

I will never know what
it feels like to be an Invisible

4

. J rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by.the Trustees of Davidson College. |

Man. I often think this is

much to my own disadvan-
tage, and definitely to my
loss as a fellow human being
of yours. Your feeling of
invisibility seems to be ever-
present at this school, save
in a few circles, and that is a
terrible, painful shame.
Does it help for you to
know that there are some
visible people who know
that? Dowe have theright to
acknowledge yourstruggle?
Sometimes I wonder if, as a
part of the visible majority,
my role can only be one of
silent submission and apol-
ogy.
Travis, last year you told
me that I was brave for ask-
ing Ce Scott's advice for
whites when faced with "re-
verse prejudice." I asked a
simple and honest question,
unaware of the possibility of
offending her, which I did.

Asking took no bravery, it
took wanting to know; those
twothingsshould not besyn-
Onymous. Her answer--she
didn't know what I meant by
reverse prejudice; "Dear.
Abbey" could give me ad-
vice--hurt me, silenced me. I
thought about talking to her
afterward, but was afraid.
Her response excluded me,
not unlike your experience
in the classroom.

I must thank you; your
article has opened the door
to the invisible and beck-
oned me back in. Iam once
again called to imagine. I
have read Ellison's Invisible
Man, and although visible, I
have the ability to close my
eyes and see darkness. But
more importantly, Ican close
my eyesandsee The Dream.

Sincerely,

Christy Block '94
