4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993

Library adopts new technology
and automates check-out system

By Jeff Oller

Have you seen whatis going on in the E.
H. Little Library? Hint: The next time you
go to the library, don’t forget your CAT
card. You’ll need it to check out books.

Under the direction of Kelly Wood,
Assistant Head of Public Services, Circula-
tion and Interlibrary Loan and Jean Coateds,
Circulation Manager, and the work of about
30 people, the library has completed the
automated research and checking system.
This process started seventeen years ago
when computers were first used as catalogs.

The barcoding of all 396,000 books in
the library and the eventual distribution of
barcoded stickers to be affixed to the back of
every student’s CAT card will totally mod-
ernize the campus library.

The barcodes and the CHAL computer
system have been designed to eliminate the
cumbersome and time wasting card catalogs
and the necessity for the check-out desk to
keep due date cards in the back of every
book.

With a few keystrokes, you can now

find out whether or not a book you want is
checked out, and if so, when it will be due
back. The computer will say “charge” and
another key punch will give you the due
date. The computer will also tell whether a
book is on reserve.

When you want to check a book out,
simply bring it to the check-out desk and it
willbe scanned into the computer. You will
receive a due date card. The computer will
keep track of due dates and will assess a 25
cents a day overdue fine for regular books
and a 25 cents 4n hour fine for reserve books.

The E.H. Little Library employs six
reference librarians and 70 students through-
out the school year. The staff includes
Director Leland Park and Archivist Chalmers
Davidson. There will also be a night super-
visor from Sunday to Thursday who will be
hired within the next few weeks.

General response has been good with
most students saying that they think it is a
fine idea that should help speed things up
behind the desk. According to Junior Will
Lazenby, “The system sounds good.”

= RERELTE EIS

Photo courtesy of College Relations

Junior Brian Bentley takes a lesson in CHAL trivia.

Sophomores Miller Cary and Marianna
Whitehurst agreed that while it is a bother to
remember your Cat card every time, the new
system should help the workers behind the
desk. “We’ll have tosee if this system helps
the students,” said Cary. -

Junior Carolyn Meadows commented,
“At first I thought that they didn’t trust us

anymore because we have to give them our
ID card, but then I thought about it and
realized that they were just making things
easier.”

So dropby, get your CAT card barcoded,
use CHAL, check out a bookand experience
the new automated research and checking
system at the E.H. Little Library.

College hires alum Rob Spach to serve as campus chaplain

By Letitia Campbell

Ten years ago, as Rob Spach
began his senior year at Davidson,
he would never have predicted that
he would be back as the campus
chaplain. Involved in Amnesty
International, the Davidson Chris-
tian Fellowship, several drama pro-
ductions, the Y-Student service
Corps, and PAX, an eating house,
he graduated with Honors in Reli-
gion and Literature (a Center ma-
jor) writing his senior thesis on
Frederick Buechner. “I wanted to
bea professor of Religion and Lit-
erature,” says Rob. “Ihad nosense
of calling to the ministry at the
time.”

After graduation, Rob returned
to Brazil, where he had spent the
first fourteen years of his life. He
worked with children in the Ama-
zon River Basin, an area which
was, with its gold rush and
boomtowns, not unlike the Ameri-
can Old West. After a year in
Brazil, Rob headed to the Univer-
sity of Virginia for graduate school
in Literature and Religious Stud-
ies.

The son of Presbyterian mis-
sionaries, Rob worshipped inmany
types of congregations during his
educational career: American Bap-
tist, African-American Baptist,
Episcopal,
Charismatic
Independent,
Mennonite,
and Presbyte-
rian. After re-
ceiving a mas-

Paca ters degree

from UVa, Rob

Spach in 1982 taught English
in Portugal, where he met his wife.
In 1990 he entered Princeton Theo-
logical Seminary with the inten-
tion of becoming ordained. "Itwas

‘acall to campus ministry from the

beginning,” says Rob. “I never
really felt called to the parish.”

In May Rob graduated from
Princeton with a concentration in
church history, and is excited tobe
back at his alma mater. “This
position is appealing because I’m
still interested in academia, re-

search, and the life of the mind, but .

I’malso interested in the life of the

session only.

VOLUNTEER WITH
TIME TO READ

Time To Read, a reading improvement program sponsored
nationally by Time Warner Inc., provides literacy training for adults
and adolescents in Charlotte. In conjunction with Cities In Schools
and Cablevision, Davidson College students tutor children in four
Charlotte-Mecklenburg Middle or Junior-High Schools.

Time To Read boosts reading skills through magazine readings,
activity sheets, and music videos. Tutors receive a 1-year subscrip-
tion to Time Magazine and either People or Sports Illustrated.
Learners receive Time Magazine and Sports Illustrated for Kids.

Time To Read emphasizes the relationship formed between tutor
and learner. Each Davidson Tutor will be matched with a student.
Tutor and student meet weekly. at the school site for one hour.
Including transportation time, a Davidson Tutor must be able to
commit 2 hours each week during the academic year. Transporta-
tion is not necessary for participation.

Time To Read requires volunteer training. Each volunteer must
attend one Monday and one Wednesday night session. If you have
been a Time To Read Tutor, you must attend a Wednesday night

Training Dates: Monday, Sept. 13 / Wednesday, Sept. 15 :
‘Monday, Sept. 27 / Wednesday, Sept. 29

_ . All Training Session will be in Chambets 125 from_7-9p.m, |

spirit. I think it’s rich when the two
can be brought together.” One
way Rob plans to help students
integrate their spiritual and intel-
lectual lives is by sponsoring a
new program called En Route,
which will meet on Thursdays from
2:00 to 2:30 p.m. in Phi Hall. The

group will discuss and meditate on

music, art, poetry, and spiritual

writings of many traditions. Some
of the topics Rob hopes to explore
are the music of Van Morrison,
Daniel Lanois, and Tracy
Chapman, Japanese art, the writ-
ings of the Christian mystics, and
the Zen tradition.

“It’s really different to be
back!” says Rob. “Davidson has
houses, and Baker wasn’t built.

I’ve changed a lot, too.” Rob has
returned with energy and a sense
of purpose. “I want to help mem-
bers of the college community re-
flect on the spiritual dimensions of
their lives and deepen’ their inti-
macy with God.”

Rob will be ordained Sunday,
September 19 at- the 11:00 a.m.
service at DCPC.

RESERVE

OFFICERS'

TRAINING CORPS

=

Ea

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD.

Your Uncle Sam. Every year Army ROTC
awards scholarships to hundreds of talented
students. If you qualify, these merit-
based scholarships can help you pay
tuition and educational fees. They.

Ns

you qualify.

even pay a flat rate for textbooks and sup-
plies. You can also receive an allowance of
up to $1000 each school year the
scholarship is in effect. Find out today if

For more information 3
Contact Major Hawkins at 892-2165

cee

sviebidree sansa

