THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1993 7
—

4 B 1 7 HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
Gh abidsonian LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor
MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914
LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager.
ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

Moving Forward ©

Last year, from tensions over housing, “tolerance,” and social opportunities,
Davidson realed under the pressures of a previously unknown disenchantment with
the school. But the 1992-93 school year is dead and gone.

» Whew. :

During the badly needed summer, it seems the college heaved a collective sigh
of relief and began moving forward on a number of issues. The changes that took
place over the summer are real and positive steps toward improving the overall
health of the college. -

The most obvious of which, of course, is the giant $9.1 million Visual Arts
Center. As the Art Department expanded, it became blatantly apparent that its
facilities could not adequately equip students with the training they required, and
the college responded beautifully with a building that can seemingly accomodate
the needs of all.

Along with the physical expansion of the college comes an enlarged student
body. The 452 members of the freshman class mark the largest class ever to enroll
at Davidson as the school makes its way toward the 1,600 student goal. Especially
impressive, when we consider that the freshman average highschool class rank was
in the top 5-10%. In maintaining our historically high standards, the rest of the
college would do well to follow the Admission Committee’s lead.

With the changes made to last year’s ill-conceived Alcohol policy, Dean Terry
and the CCRL appear tobe doing so. Forcing the houses to endure external policing
of parties effectively removed the tenets of Honor and Responsibility from the
court, and the revised policy takes a step toward replacing them. The ball is in the
Court’s court, and hopefully the houses will meet their responsibilities with a
renewed vigor. ee

So now we head into a new year, with a freshmen class smarter than any of the ©

rest of us and room for all of them, except in the dormitories. Undoubtedly, sow
problems will arise that will warrant editorial conclusions more biting than this one.
For now, however, we are free of our troubles. And, for the most part, we hope the
atmosphere remains clear.

Welcome back.
Help

This week, the editors of The Davidsonian experienced Davidson’s unique
brand of bureaucratic red tape. In attempting to gather a list of students and their
phone numbers, we contacted numerous members of the College staff—all of
whom were.more than willing to assist us, but few who actually knew where the list
was hidden.

We found it, and here it is. Enjoy.

But the task is far from over. “The South’s Foremost College Weekly” just
isn’t. It should be though, and you can help. From our experience this week, we
know that people out there want to help, but just don’t know where to go. Soif you
want to contribute to this pithy piece of journalism, please come to an organiza-
tional meeting Thursday night at 7:00 in the Union Pit.

_ LETTERS

Slut or stud, what's the difference?

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The

reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and]:

To the editors:

For several days now -

we’vebeen back on the court
checking out SAE, wonder-
ing if KA will ever serve
beer, and complaining about
the fact that the PHI GAM
tram doesn’t pick us updown
the hill. As usual, the girls
are expected to look cute and
put together whereas the
scrubbier a guy looks, the
more attention he’ll attract.

The alcohol monitors
are now wearing blueinstead
of red, and, low and behold,
the “over twenty-one” can
bring up one beer. How-

‘ever, instead of talking and

reminiscing aboutthe court’s
social°appearance, I’d like
to ask some of you if this
sounds familiar.

It’s the first night out
and as you walk into the
party you immediately spot
the cute boy you’ve been
noticing for the past few
days. You can’t quite re-
member his name but it
doesn’t really matter at this
point.

After all, with his tem-
porary tan, his bright blue
eyes, and his (maybe?) bet-
ter body, who cares if his
name is Tom, Dick, or
Harry? As you attempt to
seductively cross the room,
you “accidentally” brush up
against him. Your innocent
eyes look up to apologize,
but the message you're try-

ing tosendis that I want you.

One thing leads to an-
other and you end up leav-
ing the party together. The
next morning as you walk
home you’re wondering
what he meant by, “yeah,
I'll call you sometime,” but
meanwhile he’s backasleep,
and probably not dreaming
about you.

The next night you’re
still pretty proud of yourself
and hoping that maybe you’ll
see him again. As you enter
the party you get that friendly
reality slap.

He’s standing in the
corner with his arms around
a pretty blond and your first

thought is, “what a little
21!2@?!2.” As you take a
sip of your beer you sadly
remember that you are the
one who now has “slut po-
tential” and that you have
helped him attain a higher
degree of studliness. _

At this point it really
sucks to be a girl. As he
continues to look right
straight through you, you
notice that several of his fra-
ternity brothers have joined
you. They are eying you
with that pitiful look imply-
ing that maybe you might be
so kind as to help them bol-
ster their image also. Fat
chance.

The scene I just asked
you to relate to is one that
many girls, especially fresh-

men, have gone through at
some point as a Davidson
student. The fact is, that
girls who hook up frequently
becomesluts, girls who hook
up with guys from the same
fraternity become “whatever
the frat” hobags, and guys
who hook up a lot - well,
they are eitherstuds, orifit’s
really bad, scammers.

Most girls take offense
tothe word “slut” ; however,
why guys pride themselves
on being referred toasastal-
lion kept for the sole pur-
pose of breeding is beyond
me. The answer to why girls
getbad reputations, and guys

don’t, is one that is hard to
answer,

From what I understand,
girls are easily labeled sluts
because ultimately it is their

* decision whether or not to

hook up with a guy. Al-
though this may be true, it is
often difficult for us to see
through the smoothness of
many a Joe coolat Davidson
college. This is not really a
valid excuse since obviously

most girls here tend to have

a fairly high intelligence

level.

Therefore, in writing
this letter, I only wanted to
remind girls about the very .
original and persuasive one-
liners which, from time to
time, are attempted.
Sincerely,

Frederique Campagne '96

Name:

Subscribe to
Che Davidsonian

Address:

City:

State:

ZIP Code:

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. |

Please enclose check for $32.50, payable to
The Davidsonian, and mail to:

The Davidsonian
P.O. Box 219
Davison, NC 28036

__ Attn: Erik Sjostrom

