THE. DAVIDSONIAN

Sr. MONDAY, OCTOBER 4, 1993 ae,

; ae HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
The B abitsoniant - _ LEIGHRAWDON-Managing Editor
- MANDY CURTIS-News Editor
COURT McBRYDE-Assistant'News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
WILL COBB-Assistant Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

. Founded in 1914

- "The South's Foremost 2
- College Weekly" WELLS BLACK-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager,

ERICSJOSTROM-Circulation Manager |

Finally, a Davidson woman
needs no introduction

For 156 years, many Davidson men have prided themselves on the
Southern heritage and national reputation of their college of choice. Most
find a connection and a love for the unique situation we have at Davidson—
a small liberal arts college that emphasizes the values of personal teaching
and independent thinking.

But it is only recently that women could experience the same warm
feelings at Davidson.

1993 marks a milestone for the woman’s determination to be a part of
Davidson. The Alumni Association sponsored weekend activities to cel-
ebrate the twenty years of coeducation. Alumnae from the ‘70s, ‘80s, and
‘90s attended, sharing their perspectives of a Davidson woman’s experience.

Each woman’s tales were different, but generally the testimonies tended
to speak of the improved and improving opportunities: for women here at
Davidson. We can attribute many changes to the administration, but more
importantly we should thank the women who have come before us. They
made it possible for Davidson to be an institution of coeducation in which
women work as professors, gender studies courses are taught, and the list of
varsity sports includes women’s teams.

Without the Elizabeth Kisses, the Carol Connor Willinghams, and the
Patricia Cornwells (to name only a few), current students could not experi-
ence the same opportunities. Still, we must not forget that though others have
paved a path, we must follow the road.

Women at Davidson now find themselves a part of a unique and wealthy
heritage, though it is essentially-only twenty years old. The community
formed by current students and those of years passed is unbreakable. It is one
based on the pioneering efforts of the first 29 women accepted as degree
seeking students in 1972 and the many who followed, facing the challenges
necessary for an adapting institution.

The road, though, has not ended. The women at Davidson today should
laud the efforts of those who came before, but must more importantly
graduate with pride in aDavidson education and in the life led during the four
years of college. We owe it to the foremothers of only twenty years ago to
continue working to make a Davidson education truly a coeducation worth
celebrating.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Faller insensitive to clinically depressed

To the editors,

The article at the head
of last week's Opinions sec-
tion, “Prozac, the wonder
drug: the danger of buying
happiness," both shocked
and disappointed me. The
flip, disparaging manner in
which the author addresses
clinical depréssion and the
drug Prozac is nothing short
of offensive. To compare
clinical depression with
problems such as "smoking,
‘loving too much,' and nail
biting" belittles what can for
some people be a crippling
physical condition.

Clearly the author has

no comprehension of clini-
cal depression. Clinical de-
pression is not "generally
feeling down and unmoti-
vated," nor is it mourning
for the death of a loved one.
Similarly, I would be sur-
prised to find even one doc-
tor who agreed with the anal-
ogy that the use of Prozac is
equivalent to a lobotomy.
Although I share the
view that there is a risk of
abusing any drug, the

author's fear that someone .

would use a drug such as
Prozac when they didn'tneed
it is hardly valid. Prozac is
not Advil or Tylenol; you

certainly won't find it on the
shelf at your local pharmacy.

Despite the author's dis-
claimer that "It is not my
point in any way to deny
anybody whousedorispres-
ently using any chemical
anti-depressant the compas-
sion that they need and de-
serve," I find this article lack-
ing in taste and sensitivity.
Sufferers of clinical depres-
sion are not asking for "com-
passion,” only an_under-
standing and acknowledg-

-ment of what is 4 legitimate

medical illness.
Sincerely,
Amy Cohan '94

To the editors,

We are writing in re-
sponse tothe September27th
article by Stephen Faller con-
cerning Prozacand "the dan-
ger of buying happiness."
Apparently, he believes that
counseling and anti-depres-
sants are a dangerous and
even unnecessary treatment
for clinical depression. He
even goes so far as to sug-
gest that anti-depressants are
a quick fix for happiness and
accusesusers of "lobotomiz-

ing" themselves.

Mr. Faller's lack of re-
search is appalling and the
representation of those us-
ing anti-depressants he pro-
vides is degrading. While
he made the statement that
he was not trying to offend
those who used or are cur-
rently using anti-depres-
sants, hisignorance concern-

ing the area he addresses is

nonetheless hurtful.
We do not know the
extent of knowledge

Davidson students have
about Prozac and counsel-
ing services, but for those
learning about it for the first"
time through Faller's article,
we would like toclear up the
inaccuracies.

First of all, one cannot
compare occasional periods
of "feeling down" (i.e.
mourning over the loss of a
loved one) to the constant
struggle of depression on a

_ See Prozac on page 8

A battle of words

To the editors,

After reading Rafael
and Travis' editorial about
racism and prejudice, I was
confused about the defini-
tion of racism. Their defini-
tionseemed wrong. My sixth
grade teacher always said,
"If you don't know what a
word means, look it up!" So
I did.

Rafael and Travis state

in their column that "Mi-
norities can be prejudiced,
but not racist. Racism im-
plies economicand political
power; minorities until re-
cently have not had access
to either."

TheAmerican Heritage
Dictionary says racism is "1.
the notion that one's own
ethnic stock is superior. 2.
Discrimination or prejudice

based on race."

Now I think Isee where
Rafael and Travis got con-
fused. They must have used
the first part of the
dictionary's definition and
thought that "ethnic stock"
is an economic term. They
mustthink that "ethnicstock"
is something like preferred

See Stock on page 10

A little slice of goodness

To the editors,

Justa littleslice of good-
ness that is available at
Davidson College: the laun-
dry service. In this realm
where we all bitch and com-
plain about the little things
that irk us (and believe me, I
am not afraid to complain), I
would just like to give alittle
praise to our laundry ser-
vice.

I love walking in there
because Iamalways greeted
by smilesand “afternoon.” I
have never once had a prob-
lem with the service. On one

occasion when I left a five
dollar bill in a pair of pants,
there was a note on my
wrapped satchel of warm,
fresh clothes that stated
something to the extent of,
“Money found inside, please
come to the counter to col-
lect.” Where else would my
money have been given back
to me?
How about the fact that
buttons are sewn on for free?
If I ever have a suit job, I
know I will miss this free
button service. One time the
service sewed a patch on a

pair of my jeans. It cost me
a whopping two dollars.
Once again, I was pleased
with the job well done as
wellas the price, and service
with a smile.

Sonexttime you gointo
the laundry, say “hello” and
smile to Mrs. Francis Bea-
ver, Manager of the Laun-
dry Service, and her won-
derful crew who help keep
our little community happy
by delivering clean clothes
and a friendly greeting. —

Sincerely,

Wesley Davis ’94
