6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1993

WALTER PRICE-Editor in Chief
SARAH GAYLE-Managing Editor
TOM KOONCE-Associate Editor
TOM PRICE-Assistant Editor

SEAN LIND-News Editor
ALICE FELMLEE-Ass‘t News Editor
LEIGH RAWDON-Ass‘t News Editor
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Opinions Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Ass’t Opinions Editor
CHRIS HOVELAND-Davidson Arts Editor
STANCEL RILEY-Davidson Arts Editor
BRUCE BALESTIER-Sports Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Ass‘t Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
ALEX DANIEL- Production Manager
LAURA DENNIS-Ass‘t Production Manager

The Dabidsonian

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

HARRISON ROBERTS-Advertising Manager
BILL BRYAN-Ass'‘t Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager
KATRICE SHULER-Circulation Manager —

Letters

A Note in Closing

Traditionally, this space in The Davidsonian has been reserved for the
unsigned editorials of the paper’s editorial board. In this, my final issue as editor
in chief, I wanted to take the opportunity to make a few comments and offer a few
well-deserved thank yous.

Last week in this space ran the editorial published in the first Davidsonian
of April 1914. The editorial noted that the paper’s purpose sought to “increase

the spirit in athletic, literary, social and religious life here; itcan be alink between —

college and community, alumni and alma mater.” It is my hope that, in this 78th
year of The Davidsonian, we have been able to accomplish some of this stated
goal. One thing I can assure you of is that we have pursued this goal earnestly
and diligently.

For those of you who can harken back four years ago, you might remember
what The Davidsonian once represented, a sporadic, less than ideal publication.
However; through the dedication of editors Chaudhuri, Puckett, Thompson and
Smyth, the paper has been remolded and once again has a prominent role on this
campus. To those individuals, we all owe our thanks.

This year, the editorial board, in addition to serving as a voice and source for

the Davidson community, sought to expand the paper to a wider audience. It is
our hope and belief that we have made strides in accomplishing this objective.
The staff is as open and diverse as‘it has been during my time at Davidson, yet
there is much room for improvement. I charge our successors to make staff
diversity a continued goal of the paper. Afterall, itiseveryone’s paper, we should
strive to have everyone involved.

As for my successors, Harrison Roberts and Chris Frampton, I wish you the
best. Davidson is fortunate to have found two individuals who have willingly
volunteered for the daunting task of this position. I have every belief that they
will bring alot to the continued improvement of this paper.

Finally, I want to thank many of the people who have made significant
contributions to the paper over the past year. All of the staff members names
listed above, from the section editors to the circulation staff, deserve recognition
for their work this year. Additionally, I want to thank both Dr. Gill Holland and
Dean Will Terry for both their friendship and advice this year In particular, three
individuals deserved to be singled out for their time and dedication which
enabled this paper to be produced each week. Managing Editor Sarah Gayle,
Associate Editor Tom Koonce and Assistant Editor Tom Price all gave unself-
ishly of their weekends and free time. Having such individuals on my staffmade
my,job as editor much easier. Thanks guys, it would not have been possible

Willer S pp

Walter Price
Editor in Chief

Basketball Thanks Students
for Support at Home Games

To the Editor,

The Men’s basketball
team sends their thanks to
the loudand enthusiastic fans
from the student body whose
support and encouragement
has been a vital part of our
very successful home stand.
Since February of last sea-

son, the Belk Arena has
evolved into a significant
home court advantage as
we’ve managed a record of
11-2 as well as two addi-
tional exhibition victories.
Your participation in this
successis clearly evidentand
felt by all of the players and

coaches. Thanks for giving
us this terrific boost to our
confidence.
Sincerely,
Men’s Basketball
Players, Coaches, and
Team Managers

Williams Corrects

Letter

To the Editor,

The January 25 letter of
Ms. Spivey and Humphrey
on examinations may have
confused students by sug-
gesting that they donot have
to write papers or take tests
the week before optional
class days. This is simply
inaccurate. All written work
ina class is due no later than
the end of the hour of the last
official class period of the
semester, optional or not.

Papers may well be due dur-
ing the last week of classes
(optional for the faculty to
teach butnot optional for the
Students to attend), or evén
earlier than that. Although
the Dean each semester en-
courages faculty not to give
reviews during the final (op-
tional) week of classes, this
is not part of the Academic
Regulations. There is no
moratorium on tests and pa-
pers in the week before the

week before final examina-
tions.

I hope this clarifies the
Situation. Our intent is to
encourage students to work
and study throughout the
semester and to synthesize:
material at the end; not to
give them a week off before
the final week of classes.

Sincerely,

Robert C. Williams

VPAA and

Dean of Faculty

OPINIONS

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Hi! I’m back. I’m sorry
I haven’t written lately, but
I’ve been going through a
Sophomore Slump. I tried to
write for the last two edi-
tions, but the inspiration just
hasn’t been there. In other
words, I’ve been really lazy.
The only active thing I do
now is get up off the couch
to change CD’s or to hit the
reset button on my Sega
Genesis.

I couldn’t think of a
topic to write an entire ar-
ticleon, sol’m going to “pull
a Frampton." Pulling a
Frampton is rambling about
random topics until you’re
tired of rambling.

about the recent suspension

‘| of Sigma Phi Epsilon. The

Sig Ep’s were suspended for
hurting one of their pledges.
As I heard it, they were try-
ing to “road trip” a pledge
when the incident occurred.
The pledge was taped up,

and accidently dropped on

his head. He had to get nine
stitches, but aside from that,
heis fine. Nobigdeal. Right?
Wrong! The College re-
sponded quickly, and sus-

"I'm going to pull a
Frampton. Pulling a
Frampton is rambling
about random topics
until you are tired."

First, I’d like to talk

ry

pended the Sig Ep’s indefi-
nitely for this horrible act. I
don’t know about you, but I
think this action is a bit se-
vere. The pledge who was
hurt doesn’t think that this
incidentis a big deal, so why
should we? The Sig Ep’s
deserve a slap on the wrist,
but the suspension is ridicu-
lous.

I'd like to talk about the
Duke Blue Devils. Before
Wednesday’s game, my
friends who pull for North

Don't Tread on Me... Tom Norwood
Pulling a Frampton

Carolina were telling me that
Duke would lose. They told
me that Duke sucked because
they had lost three ACC
games. To these people I
have one thing to say. Great
teams aren’t great all the
time; they are just great when
they have to be.

Last, the Super Bowl
(maybe they should change
the name) was the same as
always. The NFC blew out
the AFC, and Budweiser
won the Bud Bowl. The only
thing that bothers me about
this Super Bowl is that the
Cowboys won. As I told you
before, I hate the Cowboys,
but that’s not what bothers
me. I’m mad that the Cow-
boys won because I now
have to listen to all the band-
wagon fans tell me about the
Dallas Dynasty. Maybe I
should run outand byaCow-
boyshatlike everybody else,
so that everybody will leave
me alone. I’m tired of ram-
bling. Bye.
