_ SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 1993

13

Butcher Return of Veterans May Mean Success on Links

Receives
Award

_By Will Siler

“Windex” might describe Erin
Butcher best. A freshman on this
year’s women’s basketball team,
Butcher has been cleaning the glass
on basketball courts throughout the
Southeast this winter and is cur-
rently ranked 11th nationally
among Division I rebounders. She
yanked down 19 rebounds against
Pfeiffer, 15, against Barton, 18
against Wofford, and tied a school
record with 23 rebounds at
Lynchburg in late January. Butcher

Photo by Kennon Giles

Detlef Musch shoots a free throw in the early minutes of
Davidson's 80-69 loss to the 49ers of UNC Charlotte. The
Wildcats are currently fifth in the Southern Conference.

seems blessed with the ability to be
at the right place at the right time.
She leads this year’s team with

17.2 points per game and 12.3 re-
bounds. Butall this success is not
new to Butcher.
Butcher was honored ataban- By Bruce Balestier
quet this past Saturday in Pitts- ©  TheDavidsonbasketball team
burgh where she received the Dap- —_ boosted its lagging self-esteem and

per Dan/Pittsburgh Post-Gazette
Female Athlete of the Year award
for her achievements at Mt. Leba-
non High School from 1988-92.
She was joined at the banquet by
Bill Cowher, the head coach of the
Pittsburgh Steelers, who received

reasserted its claim on a first-divi-
sion finish in the Southern Confer-
ence Saturday afternoon at Belk
Arena with a 76-64 win over
Furman. The victory ended a three-
game losing streak and moved the
Wildcats (10-11, 7-6) into fifth

the Man of the Year Award; Dante _ place in the league standings.
Calabria, a freshman’ basketball After a close first half that
player at UNC, who was named ended with Davidson trailing 30-

the Male Athlete of the Year; and
Mike Singletary, a retired line-
backer with the Chicago Bears,
whoreceived the Farewell to Sport
award.

Butcher was surprised to get
the award but has been excited
about the banquet for weeks. “I’ve °

29, Furman pulled away early in
the second. Tazari Green’s basket
in the paint was the last of 10
straight points that gave the Pala-

and provoked a Davidson timeout.
Said Davidson coach Bob
McKillop after the game, “Ourshot

got an autograph book I’m going _ selection atthat point was not good.
to take with me,” she said before We were playing very passively.
leaving for Pittsburgh. We decided to get our. big men

AtMt Lebanonin Pittsburgh, involved and it opened up the pe-

Butcher lettered all four years in
both basketball and soccer. In bas-
ketball she averaged 22.8 points
per game and 17 rebounds her se-
nior year, capping acareer in which
she established the record for ca-
reer points at Mt. Lebanon with

rimeter for us.”

Center George Spain scored
five points and guard Jason
Zimmerman seven, including apair
of three-pointers, in an 18-5 run
that gave the Wildcats a 52-49
lead, and after that they never

1,204. trailed. Butitstill took some clutch
Butcheralso wasastandoutin hoops to earn the victory.
soccer at Mt. Lebanon. During her One of them came with 4:03

career she established school
records for goals, 124, and assists,’
56. Asa senior she was named a
first-team All-American by the
National Soccer Coaches Associa- uncertain with 2:28 left when
tion of America, and USA Today Davidson called timeout with a
ranked Butcher’s team as high as four-point lead but just 12 seconds
second in the country. 7 left on the shot clock. Forced to

Butcher was heavily recruited create something when a set play
byseveralschoolsthroughouthigh broke down, a double-teamed
school, but chose Davidson over Zimmerman found Alpert at the
schools such as Notre Dame and _ left baseline. Alpert took a dribble
Cornell because, she says, “I andpulleduptohita 14-foot jumper
wanted to play both [soccer and for a 65-59 lead.
basketball], and Davidson offered The Wildcats made 11 of 12
the type of academic environment — foul shots in the final 2:06 to pull
I wanted.” away.

Butcher only played in nine The status of Alpert, who tore
gamés this fall for the Davidson cartilage in his rightknee Wednes-
‘women’ssoccerteamduetoaknee day night against UNCC, was un-
injury at the beginning of the sea-

to play, when center Detlef Musch,
who led Davidson with 18 points,
- converted a three-point play for a
61-56 lead. The outcome was still

turned in a performance that

See "Butcher" on page 14 McKillop called “gutty and coura-

dins a 44-34 lead with 15:31 left, .

certain before the game, but he-

Victory at Furman
Breaks Losing Streak

geous.” Alpert had sat out the pre--

vious two practices to give the
knee some rest, and decided to
play Saturday only after some de-
liberation.

“T was pretty hesitant,” he said.
“Thadn’t played for a couple days,
and I wasn’t sure how it would
react to real running and game
situations. But once I got out there
and the blood started circulating I
pretty much knew I wasn’t going
to have a problem.” Alpert’s knee
may require arthroscopic surgery
at season’s end, but doctors say
there’s no real risk of further in-
jury, and he has been cleared to
play intheteam’sremaining games.

Zimmerman added 17 points
(three of four three-pointers) for
the “Cats.

Wednesday night at Belk
Arena, UNC-Charlotte, fresh off a
win over 17th-ranked Tulane, rode
freshman guard Andre Davis to an
80-69 win over Davidson. Davis, a
product of Charlotte’s Indepen-
dence High, hit five of seven three-
pointers and 12 of 12 free throws
on his way to 33 points.

Davis scored 18 in the first
half, including 11 straightas UNCC
built a 22-8 lead midway through
the half. But Davidson closed the
half with a flurry, closing to 33-29
on Alpert’stwo free throws. UNCC
led 35-29 at the half when Malru
Dottin wrested the ball from J.D.
Heuer and begged in a 20-foot
bank shot as the buzzer sounded.

The 49ers extended their ad-
vantage to 62-47 when Dottin drove
and scored with 7:04 to go, but the
Wildcats fought back into conten-
tion, closing the gap to 67-62 on
Zimmerman’s basket in the paint
with 3:44 left. From that point,
though, UNCC made 13 of 14 foul
shots to decide things. The 49ers,

61% as a team at the line for the:

season, shot 76% (29-38) for the
game. Janko Narat had 14 points to
lead Davidson.

Last Sunday in Charleston,
The Citadel defeated the Wildcats
68-58 in a very physical game.

See "Hoops" on page 15

By Robert Lloyd-Still

On February 28, the Davidson
golf team will begin their spring
season at the Francis Marion Spring
Intercollegiate Tournament with
hopes of improving on their fall
season. The ‘Cats started the fall

> . season strongly, but they seemed

to regress as the season continued.
With the return of juniors Will
Coble and Mark Raber, the lineup
becomes more solid and there is a
good chance for improvement.
Coach Gordon Mietz looks for-
ward to the upcoming season. “I’m
hoping with Mark and Will back
that we willhaveastronger spring,”
he said.

Raber and Coble will need to
replace the leadership and experi-
ence of first semester captain, Will
McDaniel. McDaniel, who left this
semester to study abroad, had the
finest performance of the fall sea-
son when he shot 75-76 at the
Maggie Valley Golf Tournament.
Therefore, Mietz looks forward to
the return of Coble and Raber.
“They were regulars in their fresh-
man and sophomore years,” he said.
“Tam hoping that their addition to
the team and if they can regain the
form they had during their fresh-
man and sophomore years they are
going to help us.”

Mietz also expects solid per-
formances out of freshman Slade
Worley and sophomore Kevin
Miller. During the fall season,
Worley managed to break 80 twice.
Miller has played well for Davidson
in the past and is very capable of
posting low scores. Mietz also ex-
pects big things outofjuniorJimmy
Jackson: “I would like to get him in
the lineup more often, because he

has the potential to play very well. -

However, he has been hampered

by academic commitments.” If,
Coble, Raber, Miller, and Worley

all play like they are capable, and

Jackson plays more often, the golf
team should experience consider-

able success.

The ‘Cats started the fall sea-
son with a bang; they shot their
best score of the season at the
Maggie Valley tournament. Mietz
assumed that the team would build

on this, but that never happened.

He said, “After that, the next three
tournaments were not as good. It
was kind of disappointing, because
I thought that after starting out
strong we would improve.”
Mietz believes that the reason

_the Cats faltered as the season pro-

gressed was that he was forced to
use nine different players in tour-
naments. Golf tournaments are
played during the week and many
times the players cannot afford to
miss the two days of classes. Mietz
hopes to have solved the problem
this spring, because out of the five
tournaments, twoare scheduled for
Spring break.

This spring, Davidson returns
to the Southern Conference, a his-
torically strong golf conference.
Mietz said of the competition,
“History tells me that most teams
we play in Division I are stronger
than us. I don’t expect us to win
any tournaments, but if we shoot
some scores inthe 310 to 315 range
that will make me extremely
happy.”

The Cats will face some ex-
tremely tough schools: Georgia
Southern, UT-Chattanooga,
Furman, East Tennessee State, and
Marshall. Mietz does not expect
the team to finish at the top, but
with some solid play the Cats
should have a successful season.

Young & Sharpe
Lead Women to Win

By Robert Lloyd-Still

Throughout the entire season
freshman Erin Butcher has led the
‘Cats; however, on Friday night
twoother freshmen, Maggie Young
and Tonya Sharpe, stepped up.
After struggling through the hard-
est stretch of the season, the
Davidson women’s basketball
team broke out with a 57-44 win
against Charleston Southern. Ear-
lier in the week the ‘Cats faced
their only opponent in the South-

. ernConference, Western Carolina,

and lost 71-57.

Although the ‘Cats lost three
games in a row coming into the
Charleston Southem game, Coach
John Filar was pleased with the
team’s performance. Filar stated,
“T have seen a tremendous amount
of improvement. We were com-
petitive in all three games and with
one more year’s experience, I think
some of these results may be dif-
ferent.”

On Friday, the ‘Cats returned

homeandplayedanexcellentgame _

against Charleston Southern. The
Buccaneers defense focused on

Erin Butcher. The Buccaneers lim-
ited Butcher’s scoring, but she still
managed 11 rebounds and four
steals in 37 minutes. When Charles-
ton Southern collapsed on Butcher,
the other ‘Cats stepped up and made
Charleston Southern pay. Young
and Sharpe played great games.
Young, with 15 points and seven
rebounds, punished the Buccaneers
with acouplé‘of three pointers and
Sharpe contributed 11 points.
Kristin Solsrud also played well,
coming off the bench with 10
points, including two three-point-
ers.

On numerous occasions this
season, the “Cats have been win-
ning or close at halftime. Against
Charleston Souther, the story was
a familiar one with the two teams
tied at 24-24. Solsrud hit a key
three-pointer with eight minutes
left to put Davidson up 46-35. Af-
ter that, Young and Sharpe con-
tinually made jumpers to keep the
Buccaneers at bay.

Butcher will be honored as the
Dapper Dan/Pittsburgh Post-Ga-
zette Female Athlete of the Year.
