6

THE DAVIDSONIAN'

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22; 1 993

The Week in Washington

NAFTA may hinder GATT talks

By Brett Marston

Final passage of NAFTA di-
rects U.S. attention to the Dec.
15th deadline for completion of
the Uruguay round of negotiations
on the General Agreement on Tar-
iffs and Trade, or GATT. Dissent-
ing with the Clinton
Administration’s argument that
NAFTA will give the U.S. a bar-
gaining chip in these negotiations,
some analysts fear that NAFTA
reflects a disturbing trend toward
regionalization which is contrary
to GATT’s goals of increased uni-
versalization and liberalization of
world trade.

What is GATT? “Despite the
repeated assurances of editorial
writers that a GATT accord would
inject a whopping dose of moxie
into the ailing world economy,”
writes Michael Baller in last May’s
issue of the Columbia Journalism
Review, “it seems that the appear-
ance in print of this four-letter ac-
ronym... hasbeen enough to glaze
the eyes of readers and reporters
alike.”

In 1947, while discussions of
an International Trade Organiza-
tion (ITO) were underway, repre-

member nations met in Punta del
Este, Uruguay, to address a back-
log of issues, notably trade in ser-

sentatives from 23 countriesagreed vices, foreign investment, intel-
on a set of mutual tariff reductions lectual property rights, and agri-
which they iamedGATT.TheITO cultural policies. Originally sched-

never materialized, and in 1948 _ uled to conclude in 1990, negotia-

GATT became the main forum for
international trade negotiations (L.
Alan Winters, “The Road to Uru-
guay,” in The Economic Journal,
Dec. 1990, 1289). Today GATT
has 111 members, and an addi-
tional few dozen countries apply
GATT rules.

The positive effects of GATT
on the world economy have been
striking. According to many ana-
lysts, the reduction of tariffs and
increased international competition
resulting from GATT negotiations
have been partly responsible for
the phenomenal growth in the
world’s economy since the Second
World War.

Negotiations of GATT have
nowreached their 8th round, where
they have been stuck for 7 years.

In 1986, representatives from

"The reduction of many
tariffs and increased
international competi-
tion resulting from
GATT negotiations have
been partly responsible
for the phenomenal
growth in the world's
economy..."

tions dragged on until December
of 1991, when the final draft of the
agreement was issued.

Member states now have un-
til December 15th to ratify the
agreement. The most significant
obstacles to ratification come from
the French, who object to the pro-
posed reductions in agricultural

subsidies, which could put many
French farmers out of. business,

and to reductions in subsidies of -

the entertainment industry, which
would leave French film makers at
the mercy ofamarket flooded with
what they feel are cheap and cul-
turally worthless Hollywood pro-
ductions.

For the U.S., of course, de-
mands that the EC internally re-
duce its agricultural subsidies and
reduce regulations on film and TV
do not amount to altruism. Since
the 1970s the U.S. has been losing
its hold on world agricultural mar-
kets. Further, audiovisual products
are the U.S,’s second biggest ex-
port to the EC.

So how will NAFTA affect
the outcome of the Uruguay round?
Democratic analyst Ted Van Dyk,
writing in the New York Times
recently, fears the worst. :

“By suggesting that Nafta
should be expanded gradually

southward into Latin America-and
by implying that the U.S. should
consider joining a new Pacific
bloc,” Van Dyk warns, “Mr. Clin-
ton ... has undermined the global
regime of economic and financial
liberalization that has served the
post-war world so well.”

According to Van Dyk,
NAFTA may lead other countries
to try to form regional economic
blocks, and thus may end up divid-
ing the world market.

Others, including the econo-
mist C. Michael Aho in a recent
article in International Affairs
(“America and the Pacific Cen-
tury: Trade Conflict or Coopera-
tion?”, Jan. 1993, 19-27), argue
that if negotiations of GATT con-
tinue to stall, Clinton has no other
choice but to push for regional
trade agreements.

Other sources: U.S. Department
of State Dispatch, Aug. 10, 1992,

The Dean Rusk Program |
Mafia & black market vs. the people: The two faces of Russia

By Giannis Papagiannis

I spent last summer travelling
in Russia (included Siberia) and
experienced the everyday life of
the Russian people. I was fasci-
nated by the amount of time that
people spend together. They sit
and talk and they get to know each
other very well. Friendship and
other human values have always
_ been important to Russians.

Unfortunately, things are
changing now as life for many
Russians becomes harder day by
day. Two unknown phenomena
make their debut in the Russian
society: hunger and unemploy-
ment. As a result, people have
started focusing on money, money,
money. Inflation is uncontrollable
because while prices skyrocket
salaries remain the same. Human
values are losing precedence to the
value of the Ruble.

The biggest problem in Rus-
sia right now is that there is a large
separation of thé classes. There is
one or two percent of very wealthy
people, and then there are the poor
masses. What we call middle class
in western Europe is non-existent
in Russia. ‘Only lately have been
some hints of a bourgeois Russian
class.

The wealthy class consists of
the members of the Russian Mafia
and black marketers. These Rus-
sian “businessmen” are gaining
billions of dollars after establish-
ing a monopoly in the distribution
of goods inside Russia and the
other.ex-Soviet republics. More-
over, they act as a monopsony in
the natural resources market of
Russian oil, metals, arms, and high
technology.

A few weeks ago I read that
Russian “businessmen” have more
than $20 billion in accountsin U.S.
banks. The Mafia and the black
market are everywhere. One morn-
ing in St. Petersburg I went to

change some dollars to rubles at
the bank. Most of the time, I did it
in the black market on the street,
but that can be dangerous if you are
alone. Many friends of mine were
beaten androbbed. _

I went inside the bank and the
security guard asked me what I
was doing there. I answered that I
wanted to change some money.
He told me that he would change
the money for me. I could not
believe that even the security of-
ficer of a bank was trying to do his
own business.

All the taxis which serve the
Moscow airport are Mafia owned.
That means that when one arrives
in the Moscow and wants to go to
his hotel in the city, he has to pay
an absurd price. But everyone
ends up paying because he has no
alternative. Most of the apartments
in Moscow and St. Petersburg have
been bought by the Mafia which
rents them to foreigners fora much
higher price. And the Mafia al-

ets, even though the trains were
halfempty. They leave 20% of the
tickets free only for “important”
people. All the others are bought
and then sold in the black market
for astronomical prices. The black
market also applies to tickets for
theatres and ballets.

Not surprisingly, crime and

‘violence have sharply risen in Rus-

sia. Occasionally while walking in
St. Petersburg, we would spot sev-
eral people beating someone. Sev-
eral mornings I woke up and saw
stores of the market place in my
neighborhood burned, probably
because the owners failed to com-
promise or pay security money to
the Mafia. When I went to Mos-
cow I read in Moscow Times that
Moscow has higher murder rates
than Chicago had in the twenties.

The general anecdote these
days in Russia is that: "Russia is
the only country in the world that
the young men are richer than the
older ones.” Many young men

mon Russian Soeie suffer so
much. Itis unbelievable how much
the lower social classes have suf-
fered throughout Russian history.

There is much social distress.
When I asked about Yeltsin, the
only answer I got was that he is
totally incapable of doing anything
and that he does not care for any-
body other than himself. I was
really confused because, on the
one hand, they do not believe in
Yeltsin, but on the other hand they
support him politically. It became
clear to me that the Russians sup-
port Yeltsin because they are afraid
that they will go back to commu-
nism and chaos if Yeltsin falls.

“There is no one better,” they
kept saying to me, “there is no one
better.” .

NOTES

While traveling in Siberia, |
realized the vast resources of this
country. I understood the grief of
all the Russians, who say that for-
eigners are stealing all their natu-
ral wealth, day after day. It is sad
that a rich country like Russia is
facing the same condition that a
third world country does. Some-
thing has to change in this country.
As many Russians told me, there is’
no master in this country. There is
no one that the people can trust and
work for. That is what Russia
needs today. A politician who will
inspire the people, give them cour-
age, energy, make them believe in
themselves. If someone can man-
age that, Russia will once again
win its place in the pantheon of
world superpowers.

ways gets its way because it works _ work in illegal underground busi-
as a monopoly. They know that _ nesses that bring them much more
the foreign businessmen and the money than any other profession
international students have to live _ while the older people still depend
somewhere and that they have to on their small salaries. The most
take ataxifromtheairport. Agood tragic situation is that one of the
friend of mine who is working senior citizens who depends on
right now in St. Petersburg was their pensions to live. I got de-
paying $250 a month for his 2- pressed looking at old ladies sit-
room apartment untilonemorning — ting on the sidewalks until late at
they told him that either he.could night to sell some bread or flowers
pay $500 a month or move out.
More tragic, the Russian family find. At the same time, I was

or anything they could make or ©

(with three kids) who lived next
door offered him their apartment
for $300a month while they moved
to live in a communal house.

A majority of the transporta-
tion is also controlled by the Ma-
fia. Aticket to St. Petersburg from
Moscow by train normally cos
$2.50, but they were all bought in
advance, and I had to pay $10.
When my sister and I decided to go
to Siberia we could not find tick-

looking at all these Mafia people
driving luxurious cars and dress-
ing in the latest European fashions.
One walks on the main streets of
Moscow and St. Petersburg and
watches all the veterans from the
second World War covered with

, medals, without hands or feet, beg-

ing forsome money. These people
who saved the whole world, who
fought and became invalids for us,
have nothing toeat now, The com-

Acknowledging Violence

"Recent scholarship suggests that the world has never seen a
region or a period without violence. . . . It is not the time now to echo
the grand vision of human perfectibility and historical progression.
The end of the Utopian ideals of eternal peace should not only be
interpreted as a loss, but also as an act of liberation. It is time that new
insights into the violent structure of our psyches and of modern society
be turned to committing concrete and localized acts of peace."

-from "The Violence Among Us" by Bernd Huppauf, a professor
of German at NYU, in the Sunday, November 21 Op-Ed pages ofThe
New York Times.

Illegitimacy

"The surge in illegitimacy since 1979 is no accident. It coincided
with easier access to houses for single mothers and increasing welfare
benefits. It is not that teenage girls sit down with a calculator and work
out if they would be better getting pregnant. What has happened is far
more subtle: 40 years ago it was punishing, because of the social stigma}
and lack of welfare, if a young unmarried woman got pregnant. Today,
the stigma has gone and the housing and benefit systems make it at least}
possible. . . .Our social mores and welfare benefits allow illegitimacy,
to flourish among the poorest; we have reaped an underclass as a result,
Ministers should concentrate on encouraging the sort of social climate}
and welfare reform that will reverse this sad development."

-from "The Lone Parent Problem," in the November 14 editorial
pages of The London Sunday Times.

