THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 5, 1993 5

HARRISON ROBERTS-Editor in Chief
CHRIS FRAMPTON-Executive Editor
LEIGH RAWDON-Managing Editor

ALICE FELMLEE-News Editor
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts Editor
ROBERT LLOYD-STILL-Sports Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Photography Editor
YVETTE PITA-Special Section Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost MANDY CURTIS-Copy Editor
College Weekly" MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist
LAURA DENNIS-Production Manager
BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
JOSH ROGERS-Business Manager

ERIC SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

"Isms" at Davidson

25 years after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., our
nation finds itself still examining the presence of prejudices on a daily
basis. Because Davidson, however, has been a predominantly. white
institution, members of the community seemed to be able to keep these
issues at bay.

With the recent accusations of racism in the Davidson College
Police department and sexism in the Athletic department, though, we
have all had to consider what exactly constitutes biased behavior.
Indeed, the ongoing Federal trial in the Rodney King case is a prime
example of just how difficult this question can be.

The DCPD situation is disturbing because the fact is that white
students simply don’t get stopped very often. Merely looking at the
numbers seems to indicate that this sort of harassment is a manifestation
of racism, but.appearances can be deceiving so the question remains:
Why do African-Americans get stopped so much more frequently?

Unfortunately, many times the only way to determine if incidents
are racially or sexually biased is to attempt to find what motivates them.
To do this, we must place ourselves in the shoes of the accused-—a
precarious undertaking, at best.

When we charge the Campus Police with racism, we must also
consider what attempts they have.made in the past to fight racism, and
when we charge Terry Holland and the Athletic department with
sexism, should we not look at the contribution they have made to
Davidson in the form of greatly improved women’s athletics?

Racism and sexism are dangerous words these days, and when used
carelessly, they not only can devastate careers and destroy lives, but they
cheapen the suffering of victims like those that demonstrated against
sexual abuse last week at the Take Back the Night rally.

This is not intended to be a call to quell charges of bias, but a
reminder of how carefully we must consider before we make accusa-
tions. The Davidsonian might even be considered guilty for not taking
the responsibility of researching its articles enough. Regardless, we
must study accusations of racism and sexism with patience and dili-
gence, and when bias is found, we must act quickly and without
hesitation to make it Clear that racist and sexist behavior will not be
tolerated under any circumstances.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. The Davidsonian
requests that letters be no longer than three hundred words and reserves the right to edit
_Jall letter. In addition, no anonymous letters will be published. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial
Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

~ LETTERS:

Officer nad Defends Stopping Students

To the editors,
This letter is written in
regard to the recent article
about racial bias causing ha-
rassment of African-Ameri-
cans by the Campus Police
Department. Both students
[stopped March 22] are Afri-
can-American, which in turn
raised the suspicion that they
were being stopped prima-
rily for that reason. I would
like to make you aware of the
fact that it was I, Officer S.T.
Moore, who stopped these
individuals, and make you
aware of some of the facts
that led to my decision to
stop them.

On the night in ques-
tion, while on routine patrol,

_ Hl observed two black males

waling on Baker Sports Com-
plex Drive, in the direction
of Patterson Court. One of
the individuals was pushing
abicycle. AsI drove by them
I looked to see if I could
identify either or both of these

individuals but neither
looked familiar. I then rode
a different route around the
college in order to further
observe their actions. I

later observed these indi-
viduals walking down the
sidewalk near PKA, travel-
ing in the opposite direction
than when I last observed

them. Atthis time I debated

whether or notto perform an
ID check on them. Being
familiar with the sensitivity
of African-American stu-
dents on campus, I felt that I
had to be absolutely sure that
I did not recognize either of
the two. Well, to be per-

fectly honest, I did not rec-.

ognize either, so I ap-
proached them between Sig-
Ep and PKA. Iasked if they.
were students, they answered
yes. I asked if I could see

_ their student ID’s, which

they produced without hesi-
tation. Their ID’s verified
the fact that they were in-

deed Davidson students. I
asked how long they had
been at Davidson, and they
responded, “since last year.”
I explained that I had not
recognized them and that
was the reason for me stop-
ping them. I then advised
them that they would not
haveto worry about me stop-
ping them again.

Actually, there were
two reasons that led to my
decision to stop Mr. West
and Mr. Leak: because I did
not recognize them and be-
cause they were pushing a
bicycle. Some of you may
not be aware of the fact that
for the past few months we
have experienced problems,
with ‘bicycle thefts. “As a *
general practice while on '
routine patrol, I am particu-
larly observant of anyone I
see withabike, whetherthey .
are riding it, pushing it, or in

See Moore on page 7

Davidson Police Answer Criticism

To the editors,

All of the members of
your campus police depart-
ment are very disturbed and
concerned over the recent
article in The Davidsonian
addressing the minority stu-
dents being stopped by this
department. No matter how
hard this department works
on race relations this topic
surfaces at least once a year.
Itis now and hasalways been
the policy of this department
that discrimination by any
member will not be toler-
ated, and all officers are very
comfortable with this.

Atthe beginning of each

school year, all members of

this department attend a so-
cial gathering sponsored by
the president’s office at the
BSC House in order for the
officers to become better ac-
quainted with African-
American students at
Davidson. Unfortunately,
even though officers attend

‘this function, they may not

remember every student that
they were introduced to.
Also, every African-
American student was not
able to attend.

All campus police of-
ficers are encouraged to ac-
quaint themselves with as

many. students as_possible,
and we would like to en-
courage the students to take
the time to get to know the
officers as well. There are
however, students on cam-
pus who are less visible and
less outgoing and therefore
are less familiar to officers.
It has. always been the
policy of this department to
be very pro-active to protect
the campus. Statistics indi-
cate thatcrime is down; num-
ber of persons trespassed are
up; over 70% of persons tres
passed were white; arrests

See DCPD on page 7

Berkey Supports Decreased Load:

To the editors,

Scott Windham’s letter
(The Davidsonian, March 8)
attacking the reduction in the
faculty’s teaching load from
5 1/2 courses per year to 5 is
disappointing inits treatment
of an issue of such impor-
tance to an academic institu-

for its rude language.

Underlying the letter,
however, isan attitude which,
I fear, is fairly widespread.
This attitude, which dispar-
ages and minimizes the im-
portance of traditional aca-

tion like Davidson, not least

demic research, is popular
among those who are mis-
trustful of elite academic in-
stitutions and the excellence
upon which they insist. It
also sometimes finds accep-
tance among those who,
more justifiably, worry about
the state of teaching in our
colleges and universities. It
is based, however, upon a
fundamental misperception
of the relationship of re-

search to instruction, and

also on a naive understand-
ing of what constitutes good
teaching.

In the first place, of
course, knowledge, at least
in those places where knowl-
edge is treasured, does not
stand still. Our understand-
ing of the past, or of litera-
ture, or of the origin of the
universe of the functioning
of the human brain, is con-
stantly in a state of growth
and change. Effective and
relevant instruction requires
that those who would teach
stay abreast of developments
in their various disciplines,

See Berkey on page 6
