THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week in Washington
TV violence worries Congress

By Brett Marston

Straddling a line between
doubts about government regula-
tion and evidence that television
violence has negative effects on
society, Congress is considering
several bills this term which would
attempt to limit the amount of vio-
lence on television.

“This is going to be one of the
most challenging years, and one of
the most difficult we’ve ever
faced,” comments National Asso-
ciation of Broadcasters president
Edward O. Fritts, as quoted in a
Congressional Quarterly article
which reports on these proposals
and_others_which would require
that broadcasters preface commer-
cials for alcohol with health warn-
ings.

In the past twenty years, the
U.S. Surgeon General, the National
Institute of Mental Health, the
AMA, and the National Research
Council have all voiced their con-
cern about the apparent connec-
tion between violent television
shows and the potential for violent
behavior.

More than ten separate pieces
of legislation dealing with the prob-
lem of TV violence are currently
under scrutiny in Congress.

One, Senator’ Ernest
Hollings’s “Children’s Protection

from Violent Programming Actof [fp

1993,” would prohibit broadcast-
ers from airing “violent video pro-
gramming during hours when chil-
dren are reasonably likely to com,
prise a substantial portion of the
audience.”

News programs, sporting
events, and educational programs
would be exempt from this ruling.

“The American public has had "

enough of Reagan-era deregula-
tion,” Hollings said last October
before a Senate Committee con-
sidering his proposed legislation.

Real world
moves in

By Scott Windham

Careers Services urges jun-
iors to begin making post-graduate
plans. The Career Services staff
will meet with the junior class on
March 17 at 7 p.m. in the 900
Room to discuss preparations for
senior year and beyond.

During the brief meeting, staff
members will discuss internships,
graduate school plans, and career
planning. The goal, according to
director Carol Jordan, is to encour-
age juniots to begin their graduate
school or job search this semester
and to make them aware of the
resources at Career Services.

For juniors who are unsure of
the direction they want to take af-
ter Davidson, Career Services of-
fers the means to explore options.
Informational interviews, self-as-
sessment through written andcom-
puterized inventories, and one-day
“mentorships” have become very
popular among students trying to
discover careers of interest.

Staff members note that jun-
iors who are unable to attend the
meeting should contact Career Ser-
vices at -2132 for help with post-
graduate plans.

“We can no longer rely on broad-
casters to regulate themselves. Itis
time for Congress to act.”

Another plan, brainchild of
Massachusetts Congressman Ed-
ward Markey, requires all new tele-
vision sets to come equipped with
a computer chip which would al-
low parents to block violent pro-
gramming.

Other bills include a proposal
to require the FCC to publish a
“Violence Report Card” rating both
‘programs for violent content as
well as sponsors who endorse vio-
lent shows, and legislation which
foresees a toll-free “violence com-
plaint line” at the FCC.

Early in February, in an at-
tempt to prevent Congress from
passing regulatory legislation,
broadcasters agreed to create inde-
pendent monitoring groups which
will publish reports on violent TV
content.

They were responding to a
promise made by Senator Paul
Simon, who told industry repre-
sentatives last year that he would
block any proposed legislation if
broadcasters would take substan-
tial steps on their own to control
the level of violence in their pro-
gramming.

As the senator who introduced
the Television Violence Act in

1990, which urged networks to
establish voluntary guidelines
within three years, Senator
Simon carries some clout re-
garding this issue.

As the TV Violence Act
reached its expiration date on
Dec. 1 last year, the halls of
congress resounded with criti-
cism that the broadcast indus-
try, concerned exclusively with
profits, had taken only token
steps toward self-regulation. '

“Industry inaction has cre-
ated a cynicism among parents
that the industry is not much
interested in reducing violence,
and that responding to the needs
of children is not as important as
responding to the ratings,”
claimed PTA representative
Catherine Belter during congres-
sional hearings last October.

Within the next few weeks,
broadcasters should announce
the details of the power and func-
tion of the independent moni-
toring groups.

Sources: Congressional
Quarterly from 9/4/93, 10/23/
93, 1/29/94, and 2/5/94; back-
ground material and quotes from
Sen. Hollings’s billand from the
congressional hearings are from
the December, 1993 issue of

MONDAY, MARCH 14, 1994 5

NOTES

Congressional Digest.

Photo by Tony Wagner

The Dean Rusk speaker, Cedric Suzman, spoke about South
Africa on Wednesday, March 9.

Alabama’s poor schools wait while government plays politics

A mother at Choctaw County Junior High held her own bake sale
to buy a small carpet for her wheelchair-bound son because the only
exercise he was offered was crawling around on a cement floor.

In Wilcox County, children had to pretend they had playground
swings. At another school, the library opened only when two nuns
could spare the time to staff it.

That was the state of our poor schools when a court ruling ee
demanded decent treatment for them in 1993.

Now, despite that ruling, those children are being stiffed for
politics. Not in one or two branches of Alabama’s government, but
perhaps in all three.

The legacy you leave is much more important than the number of,
times you get re-elected.

-Jim Folsom May 11, 1993 in The Birmingham News, March 6,
1994

McKinney was right to say no

Democratic U.S. Rep. Cynthia McKinney of Georgia is young,
black and liberal from a state where titular Democratic majority
admires none of those qualities.

So on all those counts, and additionally vulnerable as a freshman,
she is taking more than her share of heat as one of only 34 House
members — and the only member of her state’s delegation — who
voted against the resolution condemning the hate speech by Khalid
Abdul Muhammad, a top gun in Louis Farrakhan’s Nation of Islam.

McKinney, however, was right.

Congress will, as she suggested, slide into very dangerous ground
indeed if it gets into the business of denouncing the rantings of
demagogues.

-Tom Teepen, The Atlanta Journal/Constitution, March 6

Collegiate censorship by theft

'I may not agree with what you say, but I will defend to the death
your right to say it.'

That famous quotation attributed to Voltaire is cited frequently on
college campuses, but if the 18th-century French author knew what
was occurring on some campuses today, he might roll over in his grave.

Rather than defending the right to air unpopular views, some
people.on college campuses are trying to squash that right by destroy-
ing the message at its root: If they don’t like what they read in a student
publication, they simply steal it right off the shelf. And too many
school officials are doing little or nothing to stop this disturbing trend.

Since spring 1992, about 140,000. copies of various student
publications have been stolen on 36 campuses around the nation,
according to statistics from the Student Press Law Center.

-Richard Daigle, The Atlanta Constitution, March 6

ice cfeam or frozen
yogurt, hot fudge and '
fresh whipped cream!

507 Providence Rd. + Posies)
The Arboretum +
202 5. Main St. + epreleen@ 392-0604

ae
REcCorRoOD Ss
NOW WITH
TERA ASTER,
‘SERVICES

ling tickets to:

tmrentiv *
Pink Floyd in Raleigh will begin selling tickets to
Phish at Grady Cole Center in Charlotte on March 18

CHECK OUT OUR NEWEST HITS:
NINE INCH NAILS, SOUNDGARDEN,
AND SAM PHILLIPS

100s of Used CDs & Great Discount Prices!
Lakeshore Market Place: 896-7882

