8O YEARS OLD

Che Hlanidsanian

1984-1993

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

ee:

by Mary Clare Jalonick

Although it may see like yes-
terday to some, many things have
happened since The Davidsonian
published its 70th issue in 1984.
World politics have changed, and
general attitudes have refocused
on different priorities; Davidson
itself has grown and changed as a
result of the events in the environ-
ment around it.

One canclearly see how much
views have changed by reading a
fashion show review from May of
1985, which commented, “Most

Dukakis, condoms & leopard prints

attractive at this show were the
brown and black leopard prints
and the bold black and white geo-
metric shapes.”

In the last decade, the campus
has greatly expanded. Baker Sports
Complex was built, the senior
apartments rose from soccer fields,
and a new User Services Building
was completed. The language lab
and the Visual Arts Center were
also finished.

Among all of the improve-
ment, the campus suffered devas-
tation as well. In 1989, Hurricane

ACCELERATED LEARNING PROGRAM

September 12
Monday Evening: 7:00 - 8:15 p.m.
CHAMBERS 125

MATH ANXIETY
"Ways to cope and conquer it" .

All students are invited to attend

Speaker: Professor Steve Davis
co-sponsors: Sigma Phi Epsilon
Office of the Dean of Faculty

5 Office of the Dean of Students

Hugo bulldozed its way over cam-
pus and caused $400,000 worth of
tree damage. Students’ lives were
disrupted, and most of the build-
ings required extensive repair.

Fraternities and eating houses
have come and gone, while some
have endured hard times. The two
co-ed eating houses, PAX and
Emanon, were forced to close due
to low membership. Kappa Sigma
reinstated its charter in 1987, and
Connor House was founded in
1992. SAE was put off campus for
a year after it was charged with
misconduct; Sigma Phi Epsilon
was put under the spotlight for
hazing.

As local headlines read of ter-
rorism and arms talks, Chernoby]
and the Persian Gulf War,
Davidson students reacted to is-
sues by taking a stand. The April
26, 1986 Davidsonian reports that
four students built their own shanty
in the middle of Chambers lawn to
protest ‘apartheid in South Africa.
It was soon torn down by the ad-
ministration, who declared the lawn
a “historic area.”

Students watched as Reagan
beat Mondale, Bush beat Dukakis,
and Clinton beat Bush. In the
November 7, 1988 issue, Davidso-
nian editor Thomas Harrison
Moore made a bold endorsement
concerning the Bush-Dukakis cam-
paign. Citing the fact that even
The Washington Post could not

pick one candidate over the other,
he decided that it was the smaller
papers that would have to take a
stand, He proclaimed that “Michael
§. Dukakis is the best candidate for
president ... he offers precisely what
George Bush and current adminis-
tration lack ... judgement, integ-
rity, and competence.”

As students were caught up in
global and national issues, they
also became involved with cam-
pus-wide concerns. They debated

the advantages of co-ed and single.

sex eating houses, and it was-an-
nounced that the administration had
reduced faculty courseload.
Projects were begun to recruit
more minority students, and an an-
nual seminar was started to discuss
rape. Condom machines were de-
bated and the health center pro-
claimed in a February 1988 article
that “venereal disease is fairly
widespread at Davidson.” They
projected that at least 50% of all
sexually active Davidson students
had atone time suffered from

FROM THE EDITOR ~

Chlamydia.

Anonymous students wrote
The Davidsonian, bringing up the
issue of homosexuals on campus.
Students challenged them to not
hide any longer, and a small sup-
port group became FLAG (Friends
of Lesbians and Gays). Students
of both sexual preferences signed
a petition founding the group,
which was printed ona full page in

’ the paper.

_ While many issues have
evolved, some things neverchange.
An article in November of 1985 is
titled “Stress- what it is and how to
deal with it.” A 1986 article com-
plains of the heavy workload, and
several articles over the years dis-
cuss alcohol problems andchanged
alcohol policies.

Much has happened since
1984, and through the words and
pages of The Davidsonian we can
see the progress, As our generation
moves into the next decade, itneed
only take a short glance back to see
how far we have come.

LEIGH RAWDON, 1994-95

"The 'sonian"

A space-filler in a 1992 November newspaper advertised, “The

Riverside Church New York, New York.

teacher and lecturer.

be heard at the following times: .

Presbyterian Church.
Monday, September 12,

Tuesday, September 13,

HEAR YE! HEAR YE!

surrounding community.

others who enjoy singing God’s praise.

Depot Street, one block from campus).

be Thursday, September 8, 1994 at 8:00 p.m.

The Office of the Chaplain cordially invites you to hear the
Reverend Dr. James Alexander Forbes, senior minister, The

(The Riverside Church is
one of the largest multicultural congregations in the nation.)
Dr. Forbes, our 1994 Staley Lecturer is a renown preacher,

He is known in national and international

religious circles as the "preacher’s preacher". Dr. Forbes can
Sunday, September 11, 1994 11:00 a.m. Davidson College .

1994 7:30 p.m. Love Auditorium.

1994 7:30 p.m. Love Auditorium

COME ONE, COME ALL

The Office of Chaplain invites you to join our Gospel Choir.
are beginning a Gospel Choir that will consist of Davidson
College students, faculty, staff, and interested members of the
This will be an opportunity for us to
grow in our awareness of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, to

give praise and honor to God and to deepen relationships with

Choir rehearsals will be every Thursday evening from 8:00 p.m. to
10:00 p.m. in the sanctuary of Davidson Presbyterian Church (116
Our first rehearsal will

We

_| Gym, Little dorms, Cunningham, the lake campus, Patterson Court,

Davidsonian needs editors for the spring semester.”

As a sophomore, I had contributed only a couple of articles to the
campus paper. Friends of mine worked on the paper, and I had always
romanticized the world of journalism. No doubt in a spurt of procras-
tination, Alex and I started talking about joining the paper. After a
conversation or two, we called about the announcement. It seemed
like a good idea. :

“Sonian office,” answered Walter Price, then the editor-in-chief.
I could hear laughter and talking in the background. It was a Sunday
night—the night before the early morning Monday trip to Mullen’s
Printers. Ignorant of the newspaper mentality the hours before
deadline, I asked if I could help out with any of the positions.

Walter immediately answered yes, then he immediately said he’d
call me back the next day.

Simple as that, Alex and I were on The Davidsonian staff. And
since that day, we have each spent more than our fair share of hours
working on a weekly newspaper that has actually become a part of each
of us.

But we are not the only ones. In fact, the 60 people who currently
work on the paper are not the only ones.

After reading many editorials sent by former editors for the 80th
anniversary issue and after talking with these editors on the telephone,
I realize that The Davidsonian is as much a part of the last eighty
editorial staffs as it is a part of ours. :

Editors from age 20 to 80 complain about the all-nighters before
deadlines—the times when the best (or sometimes the silliest) edito-
rials are written. They continually asked for more writers, a larger
staff, or better facilities. At the same time, they thrived on the
miniature, mismatched conditions of the so-called office in the attic in
the Union.

‘Editorials covered the same subjects from issue to issue, and from
year to year. And of course, how could a paper be “the South’s
Foremost College Weekly” without a series of humorous and often
hidden references that keep us appropriately humbled (and probably
more fun to read in comparison) to the publications of some our peer
institutions?

Perhaps The Davidsonian serves -as a symbol of something
constant in the lives of 20th century Davidson students. A lot has
changed on campus in the last eight decades. Belk dorm, Johnston

and the Visual Arts Center are only a few of the visual changes on
campus. Certainly much more has changed regarding the make-up of
the faculty and students.

But The Davidsonian remains. Throughout years, The Davidso-
nian has documented changes and offered opinions. It has invited
students of many different facets of campus to work together as
friends.

As we look back on the last 80 years, the current editorial board
extends its congratulations and warmest appreciation to all of the
preceding staffs. Moreover, we wish all future staffs the same exciting
and rewarding times that we have enjoyed. Good luck.

