TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 6, 1994

The First Editorial

F.W. Price: Our Founding Father
1914-1923: World War I
1924-1933: Out on the Town

1934-1943: World War II

Table of Contents

To celebrate our 80th birthday, The Daidsonian staff has compiled articles and editorials documenting each of the last eight decades. Each of
the feature articles stems from in-depth readings of The Davidsonian from past years.° Several former editors-in-chief of The Davidsonian have
written in to put one last word in the "South's Foremost College Weekly."

2 1944-1953: Post-War Growth

3 1954-1963: Building the Campus

4 1964-1973: Liberalism

5 1974-1983: Women at Davidson

6 1984-1994: Best students yet

7

10

11

| FROMTHE EDITOR

F.W. PRICE, 1914

Dollar subscriptions
and the Red & Black machine

The first Davidsonian was published on April 1, 1914 under the editorship of F.W.
Price and ten other men. With hearty support from the faculty, this group of industrious
students established Davidson’s college newspaper as a weekly publication, which it has
remained ever since, with a subscription price of $1.00. That has gone up a little.

The first issue was four pages long and featured an article which detailed meetings
of Davidson’s President William Martin with President Wilson and Vice President
Marshall in Washington, D.C.. Other news of the day included an orchestra concert in
Statesville and a report on the first three games of Davidson’s baseball team, then
nicknamed the Red and Black Machine.

The editorial which F.W. Price wrote for the first issue of his new newspaper is an

eloquent statement of what a college paper should be and rings clear today as a reminder
of Davidson’s spirit and tradition.

By F.W. Price

Atan enthusiastic meeting on
Wednesday night, March 18, the
Davidson College Student Body
voted for the establishment of a
weekly newspaper. Later, an edi-
tor and business manager were
selected and astaff appointed. The
present issue is the firstfruits of
this action. “The Davidsonian”
makes its initial bow.
In the inauguration of such a
newspaper, many questions no
doubt arise. “Why a college
weekly? Does ithave areal value?
What will it stand for?”
Paes newspaperis largely what
its name implies, composed of
news. It should be in close touch
with every phase of college life
and the life of the community about
it. Even in a small college, life
becomes more and more complex,
and as the students are broken up
into an increasing number of
groups, there is a tendency not to
look beyond the questions and
matters in which one man is di-
rectly interested. The college
newspaper should give live infor-
_|mation about every group and
{department of college activity,

other, and thus promote a feeling
of mutual interest and encourage-
ment. In addition, thee are the
things which vitally concern ev-
ery student, and yet which are not
well known or misunderstood.

But the boundaries of a col-
lege are not the limits of its cam-

keep them acquainted with each ~

pus. In close contact with it every -

day is a community which is cer-
tain to influence and be influenced
by the student. The town column
should make every man feel that
he has friends in the town, and
their interest in the college should
be increased by the weekly items
and topics about it.

The old Davidson spirit which
has held sway at Davidson in tradi-
tion and fact for years upon years
goes with the graduate that leaves
her. He scans the daily paper for
any stray paragraph of Davidson
news, and grips with a loyal clasp
the hand of a Davidson man. The
Davidsonian should go to the home
of every alumnus, let him know
what is going on every week at his
alma mater, and unite undergradu-
ate and alumnus, alumnus and
alumnus in one common purpose
— the upbuilding of Davidson.

But the newspaper should not
merely report events. It should not
be content with gathering news of
our teams away and accounts of
matters not generally known, for
the interest of the readers. This

The First Editorial

indeed is an important and a large
part, but a tremendous factor in
student life is what is called stu-
dent opinion. This must be repre-
sented fairly and truly on all vital
matters which confront the col-
lege and concern college welfare.
Yet the paper must not follow
blindly. It should lead, not lag. It
should mould, not be moulded by
the sway of campus opinion. It
should stand for the best things in
every line. This may necessitate
occasionally a firm but kind criti-
cism, which, however, often re-
moves an obstruction and clears
the way for more concerted and
faithful effort.

The Annual is the yearly mir-
ror of college life as it is, a large
edition of “Life” in student lan-
guage. The .Magazine is the
monthly expression of the literary
talent of the college. The weekly
newspaper will not encroach on
either of them; rather it will strive
to advertise and strengthen them.
Butit needs exactly what the other
publications must rely upon: the
support of the students and of the
friends of Davidson. With your
constant and real help, it can be
made newsy and strong. It can
bring to you all the latest happen-
ings of interest in the college and
town. It can increase the spirit in
athletic, literary, social and reli-
gious life here; it can be a link
between college and community,
alumni and alma mater. The
Davidsonian asks for your ear-
nest cooperation.

THE WILDCAT

Saturday means

“fight’’—let’s fight 540 strong!

SCREAMS |

= tech and

variety of fabulous gifts and
greeting cards for any occa-
sion. See why thousands of

Village Store for 27 years. -

Caan PeuiyS
Welcome Back

‘Cats!

- , Get your school year off to a great start with a visit to
The Village Store. We carry calendars, planners and
wall clocks to keep up with your busy schedule.
Organizers to keep up with your busy desk. And
shower baskets and waste baskets
in colors that pop. Plus, a wide

~ Wildcats have shopped at The =~ SN

1922

\ Ly

U7}

