2 ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

Two returning and four new professors to teach this semester

By Jeff Kent

This spring semester at Davidson will
see the arrival of several professors who will
assume both temporary and permanent po-
sitions with the college faculty. In addition
to the return of Cherie Clark and Audrey
McCulloh, four new faculty members will
be introduced to Davidson this January.

Susan Roberts will teach courses in the
Political Science department this spring,
filling in for Mary Thornberry while she is
on sabbatical. The native North Carolinian
graduated from Wake Forest University and
received a Ph.D. from Notre Dame. Roberts
brings an expertise in American politics to
her job. She has completed considerable
work in the arena of legislative politics and

with the role of women in the political
system.

Her recent projects include writing a
book on the deliberation of political ques-
tions in congress. In addition to teaching
classes this semester on “The Presidency”
and “Parties and Interest Groups,” Dr. Rob-
erts will join the faculty in a permanent
capacity next fall.

The English department welcomes
Stephey Sandy this term as the McGee pro-
fessor of writing. The Yale University gradu-
ate earned his Ph.D. from Harvard. He has
held a position at Bennington College since
1969, as well as visiting appointments at
Harvard, Brown, the University of Rhode
Island and the University of Tokyo.

Sandy has publishedseveral collections
of poetry, 13.chapbooks, numerous essays,
reviews, and a recent book called Thanks-
giving Over the Water. Sandy’s translation

of Seneca’s play “Hercules Oetaeus” should~

be published soon by the Johns Hopkins
University Press.

Another visiting professor, Andrew
Smith, will join the faculty as an associate
professor of biology this spring. Smith
graduated from Dartmouth and received his
Ph.D. from the University of North Caro-
lina.
Dr. Smith specializes in animal adhe-
sion, the mechanics of how animals stick to
rocks in turbulent intertidal zones. He has
researched extensively the mechanics of

animals generating negative pressure in
water, and has done a post-doctoral fellow-
ship related to that specialty in a French lab.

The chemistry department welcomes
visiting assistant Litaies* Ed-Zovinka.
Zovinka, a Connecticut native, studied at
Roanoke College in Virginia before receiv-
ing his Ph.D. from the University of Califor-
nia-Davis, where he studied heme degrada-
tion.

Currently, Dr. Zovinka engages in post-
doctoral work at North Carolina State Uni-
versity, where he studies vanadium peptide
chemistry. This semester, Zovinka will
educate non-chemistry majors in an intro-
ductory course and run an introductory lab
for majors.

Reduced faculty course loads mark final transition from sue system

Will fewer classes taught
mean fewer choices
for students?

By Court McBryde

Davidson professors’ yearly
teaching load will be reduced to
five classes in the fall of 1994.
This change completes Davidson’s
transition from the quarter system
to the semester system.

In 1986, it was proposed that
professors’ yearly teaching load
should be reduced from six classes
to five classes. Dean of Faculty
Dr. Robert ‘Williams explains that
this transition has been gradually
worked in over the past year.

According to Dean Williams
the decision to implement the final
phase of teaching reduction is an
“administrative decision and not a
faculty matter entirely.”

Williams explains that pro-
fessors currently teach a five anda
halfcourse load. In turn, the gradu-
ation requirement of the class of
1994 is 33 credits. With the reduc-
tion of the teaching load to five
courses, the graduation require-
ment will be reduced to 32 credits
for the class of 1995.

Ateaching load of five courses
is “an industry standard among
liberal arts colleges,” and the new

policy “brings Davidson into con-
formity with other colleges,” Wil-
liams remarks. The final imple-
mentation of the teaching load will
also help recruit new faculty, Dean
Williams added.

Williams comments that the
five course teaching load is not a
sign of devalued teaching. Will-
iams stresses that “teaching is a
broad concept,” which encom-
passes many facets.

He explains that “research,
advising, and being accessible”
create the equivalent of at least one
extra course.

Religion ‘professor Dr.
Alexander McKelway comments
that now, as opposed to 10 or 15
years ago, a lot more is expected
out of college professors. He ex-
plains that now professors have a
lot of “internal office work and
external scholarship demands” that
require more time of faculty.

With this new tedching load
professors’ “energy and time will
not be reduced, but thought and
quality will increase,” McKelway
notes.

McKelway expresses his con-

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

Sophomore Bill Hyder goes through drop/add in an effort to register for the courses he needs.
Many students spend their afternoons in long lines hoping that they will find space in desired
classes. Because of the reduced course load policy, some students worry that a smaller number of
offered courses will make drop/add an inevitable process for all.

cern about how the full shift to five
courses will be administered in all
departments. He comments that
the transition is hard for depart-
ments with classes that require spe-
cific prerequisites. “You can’t take
out the building blocks.”
Mathematics department

chairman Dr. L.R. King comments
that staffing the upper level classes
in the math department will be
difficult because they have to teach
lower level classes.

McKelway explains that even
though the number of courses of-
fered to students. will be reduced,

Davidson will make the effort to
fund more faculty positions.

Dean Williams agrees on this
matter. He notes the increase in
the size of the freshman and sopho-
more classes, explaining that
Davidson willhire faculty ifneeded
to offer the necessary classes.

Faculty retreats to reflect on spirituality

By Beth Lindsay

Davidson faculty and staff
confronted the complexities of
teaching in a Presbyterian college
at a weekend retreat in Montreat,
North Carolina January 14-16.

College chaplain Rob Spach
explains that the retreat, which was
sponsored by the chaplain’s of-
fice, called staff members to “re-
flect on what they’re doing here as
avocation.” It served as an oppor-
tunity to reflect on the role of spiri-

tuality in society andon Davidson’s -

campus.

Participants were asked to rec-
ognize “the variety of callings
among people” and to seek to dis-
cover what they can do within the
realms eir chosen vocation.

The retreat was led by John
Killinger, a scholar, writer, and
pastor of religion and culture at
Samford in Birmingham, Alabama.
Killinger addressed such topics as
“seeing as the basis of redemption,
the feminist factor, and feeding as

a metaphor for a vocation.”

An informal gathering began
the retreat on Friday evening. Over
the weekend participants attended
three workshops which included
reading, discussion, and lecture. A
morning worship service con-
cluded the retreat on Sunday.

The Montreat retreat was first
sponsored by the chaplain’s office
seven years ago to address the prac-
tical relationship between Chris-
tianity and the mission of the col-

lege.

The retreat was only intended
to be a one-time event for faculty
members. Participants, however,
found itso worthwhile that it even-
tually evolved intoan annual event
including all staff members.

Participation was down this
year, due partly to.the extremely
cold weather, but those who at-
tended thought the retreat was a
fruitful time of discovery and per-
sonal growth.

Che Davidsonian

MANDY CURTIS-News Eidtor
KATHERINE HASH, ASHLYN DANNELLY-Ass't News Editors

Sloop, Towner Blackstock

Staff Writers
Court McBryde, Rachel Dunifon, Sally Stone, Brett Marston, Mary
McCrory, Alice Felmlee, Jay Jennings, Krisy Ford, Martha Knight,
Meg Wolff, Susan Warren, Wendy Lee, Carrie Blackburn, Mary
Clare Jalonick, Christy Block, Jenny Schroeter, Lexy Devane, oes

NOW WITH
ERMA STER,

SERVICES
Currently preselling tickets to:

*FISHBONE (2/17) *VILLAGE PEOPLE (2/19)
«WIDESPREAD PANIC (2/24) *RUSH (2/25)
*BILLY JOEL (2/29)

Planning 2/12/94
GRAND OPENING BASH

PHONE: 896-7882

