_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, DECEMBER 5, 1994 a

LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

Che Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB.-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
BROOKE McRAE-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Intellectuals? At college?

They are known tosit in the corners of the library amid stacks and stacks of books. They
emerge from the shadows of Chambers on weekend nights, hair tousled, eyes fixed on the
horizon, a loaded backpack weighing heavy on their shoulders. You might run into them
in the Union during a study break, smile at them pleasantly, and say to yourself something
like, “Isn’t that the person who always quoted Kant in my Humes class?” Or, they might

pass under your nose every day, unnoticed, as you wind your way around campus, keeping ,

your busy schedule, hurrying from meeting to class to appointment.

They’re the few, the indignant, the determined. They’re the Davidson intellectuals.

Maybe you have seen one of these people wandering around campus, tripping over
things, lost in thought. Maybe you even see yourself in this description. Either way, you
are bound to have noticed how few there seem to be around here, and how an air of anti-
intellectualism seems to permeate Davidson every year.

Whiat is an intellectual? It is someone absorbed by learning for learning’s sake, not
someone for whom a college degree is just a step toward landing a good job. Someone who
lives out the true meaning of the college “academic life,” whose life outside the classroom
includes academic interest rather than being a release from study.

By now, you might have noticed the anti-intellectual overtone of the typical Davidson
lifestyle. When the Chambers bells toll on Friday afternoon, the Davidson mind shifts
gears, and anything involving books is forgotten until Sunday. Davidson students are as
smart as any in the nation, but for some reason, we tend to separate our studies from the rest
of our lives so much that it becomes an “either-or” situation. Either we’ re studying or we’re
partying. Either we’ve got a big test or we can go out.

There are many reasons for this mentality. In its curriculum and physical education
requirements, Davidson emphasizes well-roundedness in every way and attracts students
who are so inclined. Also, Davidson does not exactly have a social scene that encourages
students to sit around and discuss ideas. But these aspects of Davidson do not necessarily
discourage people from being intellectual.

Ironically, what fosters Davidson’s “either-or” mentality is, more than anything else,
its cherished Calvinist work ethic. Because we feel guilty for not finishing our work, we
come to view intellectual pursuits as a sort of punishment, a burden that we must carry
throughout our four years of college. This mindset inevitably takes the pleasure out of the
learning process.

Often, students enjoy college in spite of rather than because of their classes. When we
are relieved of a part of our burden, finish a test or a paper, or just finish class for the week,
we want to revel and forget our pain. The result: we live for weekends and holidays, and
we can’t wait to put our workload out of our minds.

Intellectuals at Davidson do not have to be only the stereotypical corduroy-clad,
disheveled anti-socialites who lurk in the halls of Chambers on weekend nights. All
becoming an intellectual means is hungering for knowledge enjoying its pursuit. It means
breaking through the dichotomy of “work hard, play hard” that prevails at Davidson and
realizing that we can’t really call ourselves students if, every afternoon, we leave our
academic interests at the classroom or library door.

Anti-intellectualism is no less than a complete rejection of what a college should stand
for. If we want to keep competing with our Northern counterparts, we need to reinvent our
work ethic so that itincludes not only the drive to get things done, but also the ability to slow
down and enjoy it.

The answer may lie in a slightly reduced work load, or a lessened emphasis on grades,
or on finding a better social outlet for students who don’t want only to drink and listen to
loud music. But, without a doubt, the beginning lies in each student’ s desire to learn. If only
that were something that could be taught.

[Reals nis

BEANS

Davipson JbeNTS Sure:
GET A HANKERING FOR
THIS Time OF YEAR.

. G00) For YouR LiReaRy FINES

~ LETTERS

SGA is political fluff

To the editors,

Iwas elected to the SGA
for the first time this year
with a great deal of excite-
ment, feeling I and the SGA
would be able to make real
improvements in the quality
of life for students here at
Davidson. I was further en-
couraged after the SGA plan-
ning retreat at the beginning
of the year, the main result
of which seemed a desire on
the part of all Senators to
work to increase the influ-
ence and effectiveness of the
SGA.

Unfortunately, I have
become increasingly disen-
chanted with the SGA.
Rather than acting as a cata-
lyst for improvements in the

quality of life for students or
attempting to increase the
influence of thé student
body, the SGA sadly contin-
ues to be little more than a
platform for venting the per-
sonal ideological agendas of
a few of its members who
obviously have little interest
in the real concerns or needs
of the student body.

We sit through meet-
ings each week in which
most of the time is spent
listening to sermons by a
few members on their over-
active personal political
views. “Victories” are
marked by the passage of
yet more pointless resolu-
tions of protest on the cur-
rent hot-button issue of the

day, to be fired off 1 to the
Trustees with great glee.
This is not progress or influ-
ence, and it certainly does
not serve the interests of the ~
students. The SGA lacks
influence and credibility
principally because. of its

poor discipline, and until the

real interests of students are
furthered rather than the nar-
row, self-serving interests of
some Senate members, it will
continue to have none.
Please tell your SGA repre-
sentative that you want real
action and not the political
fluffthe SGA aad bea now.
I know I do! cdains

Sincerely,

Jonathan J. Orr °

Independent Senator

__Internationals not harassed).

To the editors,

Iam perturbed by some
opinions expressed through
these columns recently that
give the impression that In-
ternational Students suffer
routine harassment on this
campus. The individual case
cited is highly disturbing;

and doubtless there are other
incidents that give cause for
concern. However, I per-
sonally believe that they are
isolated examples, and that
most Internationals, by the
grace of God, have positive
experiences interacting with
the general student body.

_ feel

Any implication otherwise
is a slap in the face of the
countless ‘Americans who
have gone out of their way to
make International students
welcome here at °
Davidson College.
Sincerely,
Saad Gul ’97

Let's get this straight.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of;
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,
Let me get this straight
. .two boys put money ina
Coke machine for a Coke,
but a Diet Coke falls out.
They shake the machine, and
five Cokes come out. They
take the sodas back to their
rooms. Later, they put an-
other 50 cents in the ma-
chine, but no soda falls out.
The next day, they figure out
who had paid for the other
four soft-drinks and repay
those people the lost 50 cents.
A concerned Davidson stu-
dentreports the incident, and
they are called before the
powers-that-be and are read
a statement detailing the
events of thatevening. They
are then asked if the state-
mentis correct in its account
and the boys answer yes, that
is the way it happened. In
doing so, they unknowingly
plead guilty to an Honor
Code violation and were sent
before the judicial commit-
tee who assigned sanctions.
The punishment they re-
ceived states that they are
banned from all school spon-
sored activities, i.e. Union

events, athletic events,
Patterson Court activities,
etc. until spring break, must
perform ten hours of com-
munity service, and are on
probation until the end of
the 1994/95 school year.
Hmmm...

Don’t get me wrong, I
believe the Honor Code is
one of the strongest and most
unique aspects of Davidson
College, and I fully respect
and appreciate it. However,
I think this particular case
seems to be contrary to all

that the Code claims to en-’

force and instill in our ‘stu-

dents. These two boysdidn’t

have to go door to door and
repay everyone who lost
money in the machine, but it
was out of the honesty to
which Davidson boasts cul-
tivation thatthey didso. Are
we living in sucha false Eden
that we believe that if the
boys had lined the Cokes up
in front of the machine ran-
dom people wouldn’t have
walked by and taken them?
Get real. I think the fact that
they found the people who’d
previously lost their money

and repaid them (out of their
own pockets, noless) should
be considered an act of su-
preme honesty, not a
(harshly) punishable one.
How many times have
people walked out of the
Union Cafe without paying
for something, by accident,
and then gone back and paid
for it? Many times, I as-
sume. The precedent set by
this case seems counterpro-
ductive in that now, know-

‘ing the potential conse-

quences of going back and
admitting to inadvertently
taking something, should
someone make that mistake,
they might be more hesitant
in trying to rectify it.

I understand the Judi-
cial Committee’s need to
impose some sort of punish-
ment on the boys so as to
prevent excuses of future
intent (i.e. “I was going to
return it” or “I was going to
putit back”) from being vali-
dated, but I believe this par-
ticular punishment is ex-
ceedingly harsh and unjust.

See Case on page 8
