SPORTS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 14, 1994

Women's hoops suffers tough loss in overtime to Western Carolina

By Matt Pitzer

The Davidson women’s bas-
ketball team fell just short of one of
its big goals, losing in overtime at
Western Carolina on Saturday .

The Wildcats had hoped to
avenge an earlier loss to the Cata-
mounts a few weeks ago at home.
In the first game, Davidson stayed

right with Western Carolina for
much of the game, but could not
sustain their intensity level for the
entire game.

That game came after an 83-
70 loss at Radford earlier in the
week. Radford built a 25-point lead
with 11 minutes to play, before
Davidson chipped the margin back

to 10 with about 2:40 left. After a
missed three-pointer, the Wildcats
had to foul and Radfordhit 10 of 12
free throws in the last two minutes.

Both of those losses, however,
came after a season-ending knee
injury to Maggie Young Sunday
evening. During practice she tore
her anterior cruciate ligament. She

had a similar injury to her left knee
in high school.

Even after a week with sev-
eral bad breaks, Davidson gets no
breaks, having to travel to Appala-
chian State on Monday night, and
going up against one of the tougher
teams in the conference. The team’s
primary goal is pick up the first

Southern conference win in
Davidson women’s history.
“That is one of our few win
goals,” coach John Filar said. “We
didn’t look at this season so much
in terms of wins and losses, we
looked at it in terms of improve-
ment. But it’ll a be a big disap-
pointmentif we don’t get that win.”

Davidson to
host major
swim meet
this weekend

By Neil Marks

Over 370 swimmers will descend upon
the Davidson campus this weekend for the
Southern States Swimming Championships,
which will feature over 13 teams from seven
states across the region.

The meet takes the place of an official
Southern Conference championship since
only three Southern Conference schools
currently have varsity swimming and diving
programs. Many schools from other confer-
ences, however, have elected to swim in this
meet as well.

Davidson is looking to improve over
last years results where the men’s team
finished seventh andthe women’steam sixth.

Leading the men’s team is sophomore
Churchill Hooff, who is seeded well in all of
his events and has earned the number one
seed in the 400 individual medley.

Other men to look out for include Corey
Bean, Kevin Bowler, Dave Martin, and fresh-
man diver Michael Hart.

On the women’s side, diver Meg Bentley
is expected to place well, along with swim-
mers Suzanne Hewrring, Meri Mucha,
Katherine Welling and Julie Braston.

Head coach Rich DeSelm has been
pleased with the team’s improvement, par-
ticularly at the Duke meet, which came near
the end of the season..

“The results from the Duke meet, on the
front edge of the taper, are confirmation that
we’re on the right track. It’s a promising
sign,” said DeSelm.

“I think the team has grown alot. We’ve
asked them to challenge their perceptions of
what they thought they could do. We’ve
been pushing them in practice and the re-
sults show they’re more capable than they
thought they were.”

The meet begins on Friday, February
18, with preliminaries at 11 a.m. and finals
at 6 p.m. on both Friday and Saturday. On
Sunday, preliminaries begin at 9 a.m. with
finals beginning at 5 p.m.

“We'd lave to se a lot of folks come out
and support the team. They’re committed to
doing well,” said DeSelm.

By Will Cobb

After four weeks of practice amid
inconsistent weather, the Davidson base-
ball team will start its season tomorrow
when they travel to Durham to face the
Duke Blue Devils. Despite a new crop of
talented freshman, coach Dick Cooke
plans to go with a line-up that should be
filled with many familiar faces.

Coming off a 20-28 season that ended

with an offensive explosion and a 4th
place finish in the Southern Conference
tournament, the Wildcats look to begin
where they left off, hoping an experi-
‘enced pitching staff will hold down their
opponents. Of the 395.3 innings Davidson
pitched last year only 117.7 were lost to
graduation.

The two pitchers with the lowest
ERAs last year appear to fill the #1 and #2
spotsin the starting rotation. Senior Chris
Carrigan will pitch at #1 after coming off
asuccessful junior year where he finished
with a 6-4 record giving up 54 runs in 80.3
innings pitched fora 4.26 ERA. The other
spot will be filled by senior Clay Hall,
who will pitch second on the weekends
while starting at first base otherwise. Hall
had a team low 2.72 ERA with a 2-2
record and 3 saves in 36.3 innings.

The #3 spot in the rotation stands
wide open and the list for potential can-
didates is long. Sophomores Brian
Krehmeyer and Brain Cole combined for
12 starts and both present a strong case.
The freshman class holds a couple of
talented pitchers that should definitely
see action as well.

This duo includes Mordecai Stolk
and Gus Quattlebaum. In addition, play-
ers such as Mills Arial and Mac Chapman
should see their share of time on the
mound as well. Cooke adds, “Potentially,
we could have more depth than we’ ve had
in a while.”

Offensively, the Cats return four play-
ers that batted over .300 last season for a
team that averaged almost seven runs a
game. For the second year, Paul Brannan
will bat at the lead-off position and will
line-up in left field defensively. The meat
of the batting order will come in the 2-4
positions. Three year starter Jazz Frietas
will bat second while playing center field,
catcher Brett Boretti, coming off an out-
standing junior year (.386, 13 HR, 48
RBI) will bat third, and first baseman
Clay Hall will bat clean-up.

Senior Mac Chapman, who has

Baseball

preview

Be ae

Pitcher Chris Carrigan practices.

Photo 6 courtesy apr Sports liforialion

Started all but one game since becoming a
Wildcat, will bat fifth and play third base.
Chapman batted .360 last year while pitch-
ing 31.3 innings. Sophomore Jeff Andrews
will play full time at shortstop and Chad
Blackwelder will bat 7th at second base.
Currently, Andrews is the only player to
have a secure starting position that is not a
senior. The lone starting position that has
not been filled sits alone in right field where
senior Drew Fassett and junior Mike New
are competing. Regardless of who actually
plays in the field, the other should get sev-
eral at-bats at the designated hitter position

When Clay Hall pitches, look for play-
ers like freshman Brian Penny, transfer Brad
Edwards, Krehmeyer, or David Steen to see
time at first base. When Chapman goes in
for long or short relief, freshmen such as
Anderson Marion or Gus Quattlebaum might
come in at third.

As far as the conference goes, Western

- end of March 4-6 will feature a three-

Carolina and Georgia Southern stand as
the teams to beat, while preseason polls
put Davidson somewhere in the middle
of the pack. Just like last year, the South-
ern Conference is full of tough competi-
tion.

“Now that we’ve worked out for a
few weeks, I just hope the pitchers are
ready, and that the hitters have seen
enough different pitches. Hopefully this
Tuesday we can execute the basics, have
few walks, keep the ball into play, and
field well,” said Cooke.

Davidson will play on the road for
the firsttwo weeks before returning home
fora 10-game homestand. The first home
game will be Wednesday, March 2
against Duke. Three days later, the week-

game series with conference favorite
Western Carolina. Though the timing
seems early for baseball, here it is again.

Men's track looks forward to Southern Conference indoor meet

By Jeff George

The men’s track team returned to Vir-

ginia Tech for the third time this year on
Saturday, competing in what was basically
a tune-up meet for the upcoming Southern
Conference Championships, to be held this
weekend at East Tennessee State Univer-
Sity.

Depleted by injuries and suffering from
a crippling lack of press exposure, the Cats
nonetheless had a successful meet. Once
again,a strong contingent of freshmen paved
the way, led by Chris Machon’s 4:35 1600-

meter run.

Machen ran away with his heat easily,
and looks forward to running much faster
with the improved competition this week-
end. Other freshmen competing well in-
cluded Eugene Jung in the 500 meters, and
Dave Foss in the 1600 and 3000.

Many of the team’s veterans ran off-
distance events, taking it a little easy in
preparation for the championships. Duncan
Spears narrowly missed setting his fourth
consecutive 500m record in a very physical
race, running 1:07.7, just one tenth of a

second short. Since this was his last career
meet on the Virginia Tech track, Spears can
boast an undefeated record over four years
of heat races on the 200-meter oval. Erik
McMichael, Joe Beach, and Pat Fernando
also competed in the 500, while sophomore
Eric Collings and freshman Clay Lenhart
joined Foss and Machon in the 1600. Collings
and Mike Coyle also competed in the 3000.
Junior Jeff George showed signs of return-
ing to his form of previous years with a solid
performance in the 800. _

Perhaps the most exciting aspect of the

meet was watching the development of sev-
eral runners who have been hindered by
injuries or illness. George, whose last two
seasons had been cut short by illness, joined
freshman Ian Patterson and Ken Kiser on the
rehabilitation track, with all three progress-
ing well.

The absence of junior Jim Moss still
leaves a gap in the distance corps, but his
progress has been very promising, and so
the team looks forward to having all its
runners in top form hopefully by this week-
end.
