16

resident Clinton rewarded
her. Good Morning America

interviewed her. The Charlotte Observer
featured her on the front page. Now

Davidson can meet our famous alum--Ann Clark,

the National Principal of the Year.

F ebruary 2,1994

Can you credit any of your suc-
cess to Davidson? In what ways?

I definitely can, and I think one of
the things I have said that has yet to
have been printed in any paper is that
of all the things that I have accom-
plished, going to Davidson and getting
a degree from there is probably the
thing I’m proudest of. I think I left
Davidson with self-confidence, and
part of that is just by the virtue of the
people that you are affiliated with there,
as you well know. The high calibre
and quality of student is just not on
every campus. Being in that environ-
ment for four years, with the quality of
the faculty added to it, just puts you in
good stead when you leave Davidson.

When you were at Davidson did
you have a specific professor that
influenced yourthinking or hadsome
type of significant impact on your
life?

Very definitely, Randy Nelson.
He clearly is the person who got the
best out of Ann Clark and probably
made more progress with me and made
me push harder than I had ever been
pushed in my life. I took every course
he offered, and he was my advisor. I
was late coming intoan English major,
and spring of my sophomore year, he
was willing to take me on at the 23rd
hour. In fact, he is one of the few
people I called before I left to go to
Washington. I had hoped that I would
be able to give him a copy of the
address I had to make, called “Mes-
sage to America,” for him to preview,
but our fax broke down so he didn’t
have the chance to look at it. We did
chat and he was certainly willing to do
that even 13 years out of Davidson.
But he clearly is the person that made
me work the hardest and got the very
best that Ann Clark had to give aca-
demically.

Inthe Charlotte Observer astu-
dent was quoted saying, “We feel to-
tally safe here.” Your school’s safe
environment is unique. What is your
advice for other schools that are over-
whelmed with violence?

I think trying to set and structure
a school so that you prevent unneces-
sary problems-- em- ;
phasizing little details
like not wearing a hat
in the building and not
wearing walkman fa-
dios, having somesem-
blance of a dress code-
- setsa tone in the build-
ing. It’s the way kids
begin a day; they sense
there is some structure.
If you're focusing on
kids wearing hats then you don’t get to
bigger issues. I just think there are
tone setters you can do to set a school
climate that focuses on the academics,
a more serious tone. I think there are
lots of little things we’ve done. They
do feel safe. Administrators have
walkie-talkies and are out in the halls
for every class change. We move
around the building and they do feel

1980 Rusk
president,
field hockey
captain

supervised. When you feel supervised
you feel safe.

You have been featured on the
Sront page ofthe Charlotte Observer,
ABC’s Good Morning America, and
tomorrow you meet with the Presi-
dent. How does it feel to be in the
limelight?

That is really uncomfortable for
Ann Clark and that is one of the rea-
sons why I have tried to push the
celebration back here to the school.
It’s just where I feel more comfortable.
I know that maybe I am the leader of
the success, but the success is really in
classrooms. | set a pace, but I had to
have followers.

Alot of people asked me, “What’s
next in line for you?” I really don’t
know. I love being a school principal.
Ireally don’t aspire to be a high school
principal. I clearly do not want to bea
superintendent. I do not want a central
office position. I would certainly con-
sider a position that would let me be an
advancer for public education; that
could. mean potentially a move to
Washington if I were to do something
with the Department of Education. |
would like to think at some point a
Secretary of Education kind of posi-
tion would be out there asa possibility.

It sounds like these kids don’t
want you to go anywhere.

I think there is a real trepidation.
This school has been a real revolving

door of principals and I think they feel
my time is about up, but there really
isn’t anywhere else in the system they
could put me that would be any more
challenging than where I am. I would
like to open upa middle school at some
point, and I guess there is always the
lure of Davidson.

I was just getting ready to ask
you, what about Davidson?

Several people have asked me
that, and it’s not because I am sitting
here talking to someone who is inter-
viewing me from Davidson. I have
said it at every one of the interviews. I
guess no one wants to print it because
they don’t want that [Davidson] to be
what I am proudest of, but I keep
waiting for someone to do it.

Well, this is it,

I am really truly proud of my
Davidson diploma and so it would be
very hard for me to say no if Davidson
came knocking. I can’t imagine what
it would be. It certainly would not be
appropriate for me to be teaching there
necessarily, but maybe in a Dean of
Students kind of capacity or some-
thing like that. That would throw me
with a different level of students obvi-
ously, but at an institution that I am
obviously very committed to. It’s one
of the few things I don’t say no to, If
Davidson asked me to drive up there
five nights a week to do something, I
would really do it.

Tomorrow you meet with Presi-_

dentClinton . If you had the opportu-
nity to sit down with him and his
Education Secretary what would be
your suggestions to improve Ameri-
can education?

I think I would really try to bring
home to him the importance of educa-
tion reforms happening in individual
schools maybe at the level of indi-
vidual school systems, but clearly I
think he needs to see that if something
is going to happen that is going to
impact education in a positive way,
it’s going to happen in the school build-
ing. | The implementation level is
where I think I'd like to see him focus
his energies in terms of spotlighting
the school house-- those individual
school systems, perhaps, that are re-
ally trying to do something. I would
try to share with him my basic belief
that, as educators, we can hand kids
what I call a "crystal ball" that gets
them thinking beyond the day to day,
minute ‘to minute existence. We’ve
tried to do it on a very individualized
basis here. I know.every kid, but1
know something beyond their name
which I think is the key. I guess really

- those two points, getting a focus on the

school house and that whole notion of
the crystal ball.

The public recognition and the
monetary awards are encouraging,
but what ieads you to dedicate your
life--15-20 hours a day--to students?

t would be hard for me to say no if
Davidson came knocking

Iguessthere area couple of things.
First, I clearly have the time. I'm not
married and I don’t have children;
those are two advantages that most
educators don’t have. Also, it is very
gratifying for me to be able to see kids
that are going on to college when they
were over here as seventh graders with

me chasing them around the building.

That does keep you going. I think I
grew up in a family where education
was valued. There was tremendous
support from my parents to be a public
educator. I think what I bring to public
education is a real standard of excel-
lence that I experienced in private
schools, in secondary as well as at
Davidson. I think I try to bring that
level of excellence and work ethic and
competence to this job to try to be a
role model for other principals. Idon’t
say that very publicly, and I just tend to
believe actions speak louder than
words.

In what ways did Davidson in-
fluence the amazing work ethic you
Possess, going beyond the heavy and
tough work load? Did your passion
Sor work and motivation have roots at
Davidson or does it go further back?

I think I would give Davidson
credit for perpetuating it. I think Ihave
been a very motivated, focused person
for a very long time, even as young as
eight, nine, or ten years old. J have
always been fairly directed, fairly pur-
poseful in all that I did and very, very

THE DAVIDSONIAN B ACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1994
ANN CLARK

1980 Davidson Graduate

National Principal of the Year~

Photo courtesy of Alexander Graham Middle School

; Ts there anything else, thinking

back to your Davidson experience,
that has impacted your life in any
way?

I think there were a couple of
experiences, and I guess maybe it
was because I was in that first wave of
women at Davidson. I had the oppor-
tunity to be the president of Rusk

house in its initial opening, which

was an opportunity to take on a lead-
ership role. I was captain of the field
hockey team, which was one of the
first field hockey teamsthat Davidson
had. I wasa part of a lot of firsts with
many other people in my class. I

guess I got the opportunity at

Davidson to see the need for some-
thing, communicate that need, and
then take a leadership role in seeing
that through, and that’s where that
self-confidence developed. It’s just
the opportunities I got there.

It’s hard to put Davidson. into
words. When I sit down with many
students from here and high schools
that are looking at Davidson, I try to
capture whatit is about Davidson that
makes it so special, and it’s only
someone who is there or has been
there who can fully appreciate your
inability to articulate it.

It is a fine place and the loyalty
that I feel toward that college is ex-
traordinary. The-calibre of teaching
and the quality of education I got
there and the people I interacted and
still interact with really form the base
of my friendships across the country.
But that diploma means an awful lot.
I am very proud of it.

involved in school with a variety of
different activities. Ihave always loved
children, whichissortofa corny thing
to say, but truly I have always loved
children of all ages and relate well to
them and enjoy spending time with
them. I think clearly I would go back
to what I said about Davidson earlier.
There is no question. I did not enter
Davidson with the level of self-confi-
dence that I left Davidson with. I give
Davidson credit, and Randy Nelson
specifically, for really grounding me
in what my skills and talents were and
encouraging me. Even though there
was not an educ

ation program at Davidson when
Iwas there, majoring in English ended
up being the best thing that could have
happened to me in terms of giving me
that level of base and then going on to
graduate school and focusing on edu-
cation.

I guess, deep in my heart, I’d like
to think that if I can be a success in
public education as a Davidson gradu-
ate, it will encourage other folks to do

it. I'll go out there to do a career day
and there will be ten or so of us sitting
in a conference room and Peter
Gilchrist will fill up Love Auditorium
with people who are interested ina law
career. Someday I would like to see
that a little differently. I think if I can
get some recognition as a Davidson
graduate in education, a successful one,
then maybe it will encourage others.

What has been your experience
asa woman in the field of education?

I think the work ethic takes care
of that. I push that aside and maybe I
am naive but I just think if you have a
work ethic, it speaks for itself. The
cream rises to the top. Even in this
recognition-- and a female won it last
year-- there are very few females in
secondary administration, but the fact
that there were two females in back to
back yearsis pretty significant. I guess
what came out of the process, because
I was in the final four with three men,
is that it was a quality program and
that excellence was the determining
factor, not race or sex.

