THE DAVIDSONIAN OPINIONS MONDAY, OCTOBER

The Commons:

Eric Sapp

31, 1994 : 9

Viva la Revolution

Wai, maybe we don’t need a
full scale revolution, but some-
thing needs to be done. I’m not
even talking about the taste of the
food. The main problem with the
Commons is that the food is hor-
rible for you. In today’s day and
age where there are so many medi-
cally proven reasons for eating
healthy foods, the nutritional con-
tent of the stuff they serve us in the
Commons is inexcusable.

A balanced dietis vital to good
health and good energy. It.has
been proven to increase people’s
performance in school as well as
any athletic activity in which they
might participate. A good diet can
reduce stress and greatly reduces
the chances of sickness. That is
why we as students need to make
sure a change is made in what we
are fed.

Today is a perfect example of

what I am talking about. I got to
dinner after practice and prayed all
the way there that they’d have
something I could eat because I
was starved. I got there and walked
up to the line and saw the wonder-
ful selection before me: Salisbury
steak and gravy (ham-

cream sauce. So for those of us
who don’t want 50% of our calo-
ries to come from fat, they made
the Alternative Bar. That is how
they can meet their nutritional re-
quirements, and if anyone asks
about the food, they can say, “Look

leftovers for dinner, then beans for
lunch and dinner the next day just
doesn’t cut it.

First of all, by eating those as
your main courses you miss out on
the vegetables and fruits you need.
But they just really start to get old

burgers in gravy), rice,
and over-cooked broc-
coli, or just plain ham-
burgers, or baked pota-
toes at the alternative bar,
or a sandwich.

So, faced with all

The Commons' food has too
much fat. Almost all the
entrees are super gréasy or
made with cream sauce.

after a while. Pretty
muchallI’ ve eaten since
I’ve been here has been
pasta, rice and beans,
and sandwiches. And it
is really starting to get
old.

Why can’t we

these wonderful selec-
tions, I made the decision many of
us: make. Sandwich time again.
Now, I think Kelly (the sandwich
maker) is great, but the fact that I
see her at every meal concerns me.

The Commons’ food has too
much fat. Almost all the entrees
are super greasy or made with

at the healthy stuff we’re serving
them every meal. How can you
say we don’t serve healthy food?”
Pasta for a meal is great. Beans
and rice for a meal is great. But
pasta for lunch, then the leftover
pasta for dinner, then pasta again
for lunch the next day and the

get a little more variety

in the Alternative Bar? Why can’t

we get them to cut the fat in their

dishes? Why can’t we get the other

fruits besides apples? Why can’t

we getreal fruit juices during lunch
and dinner?

We can; we just have to take

the initiative. Maybe it is just

because I’m involved in athletics
and because multiple nutritionists
have come in and talked to my
teams about the values of eating
right that this is so important to me,
but it is, and I plan todo something
about it. I can’t do much by my-
self, but we can.

The Commons is not fulfill-
ing its obligation to the students

-with the food it is serving. We

need todo something aboutit. Start
speaking out. Keep youreyes open
for petitions to change the food in
the Commons jin your dorms,
Chambers, and the Commons over
the next few weeks, and when you
see one, signit. ~

Say something to a teacher or
administrator. ‘Write an article in
the paper. And if you really want
to help, call me. We can do some-
thing about the food here. We just
have to speak up.

Cracked Cymbals by michael A. Siayton

ONE STICK of DyNAmiTe,
COMEDY, THREE STICKS
of DyNAMiTe, DRAMA

) ©

| could’ve been a better influence on
my younger brother.

Murder???

Don from page 7

On our way home, we took the metro,
and as we descended into the deep, bomb
shelter metro station, Tony told me his big-
gest fear:. his fear of heights. For some
unexplainable reason, he was uncontrolla-
bly afraid of heights. Only once, he told me,
had he ever stood on his friends’ balcony at
Yale to smoke a cigarette, and even then, he
hadn’t been able to get past the second drag.

What, then, was he doing on the bal-
cony of the fifteenth floor, which might not
have been his room? He would never, I
think, have gone out there on his own.

It is to me, perhaps, the most awful and
bitterly ironic ending—for Tony to have
died of the thing he was most afraid. His
most immense fear was realized and took his
life.

Although the American Embassy is
performing an investigation, the Russian
militia seems to be dragging its feet—it took
them five days just to send his body back
home. Also, as of today they are claiming
that his death was a suicide. In my opinion,
that is the most ridiculous thing I have ever
heard. By saying that it was a suicide instead
of an accident, for example, they are making
it seem more plausible that something worth
hiding happened last Tuesday night. Could
they be covering. something up? In this
country, it’s possible we might never find
out,

Deep down, for reasons I can’t thor-
oughly justify, I have a strong feeling that
our smiling, goatee-sporting Tony from
Brown did not fall or commit suicide.

Sincerely,

Frederique Campagne ’96

’ Gull’s Nest: Bill Gullan

In defense of smoking, again

P; . O’Rourke one wrote, “Everything
that’s fun in life is dangerous. Horse races,
for instance, are very dangerous. But at-
tempt to design a safe horse and the result is
acow.”

There is ignorance afoot at Davidson
once again, and the mob is getting uppity.
Those who would ban smoking, empowered
by our present Safety Nazi political leader-
ship and by a string of pseudo-scientific
“discoveries,” seem to be whining their way
to victory all over America and on-this
campus. Let me just say to those of you who
advocate a campus smoking ban: kiss my
ash. Why don’t you go concentrate on
something more worthwhile, like prohibit-
ing people from disliking you.

The thing that has me blowing angry
smoke on this one is that a ban on smoking
is so easy to logically refute and is derived
from such a flawed view of reality that it is
nearly impossible to take these people seri-
ously. Yet many do. Just ask the poor
employees of the Commons who stream out
the doors en masse during their breaks to
enjoy those few forbidden drags.

. There are only three possible reasons to
ban smoking: that one has the right not to be
annoyed, that we should protect others from
smoke, ‘and that we should protect smokers
from themselves. Let’s dispense with them

_one at a time. :

First, for those who wish to ban smok-
ing on the grounds that it is annoying and/or
disgusting:. let us also ban pollen; hay fever
is annoying: Letus also ban smacking one’s

gum and:slurping one’s coffee; those are
two very annoying and disgusting habits.
Let us ban biting one’s toenails—disgust-
ing. Let’s‘go further. I am annoyed by
professors who wait until the end of class to
hand back papers or tests. Let’s imprison
them. Basically, after looking at this notion
taken to its logical conclusion, it is clear that
one has no right to forbid behavior simply
because it is annoying or disgusting. Nor
does one have any right to avoid annoyance
other than to leave the area where the annoyer

_is annoying people. Orthey can say, “Please

stop; you are annoying me.” However, the
anti-smoking people are too cowardly to
actually ask a smoker to desist. They’d
much rather pretend to cough when they
pass me in Chambers.

Second, for those who wish to be pro-
tected from second-hand smoke: it’s not
that bad. As I reported last year, there is
really nothing other than a fatally-flawed
and widely discredited EPA report to sug-
gest that second-hand smoke exists. And
even if this report is to be believed, the
sample was done on household smoking
(i.e. people who are constantly in the pres-
ence of smoking). And a study of these
people still could not create an indisputable
scientific conclusion.

Basically, itis impossible for anyone to
die of second-hand smoke at Davidson:
smoking is just not that prevalent. Well,
there is a way: if you happened to be

standing behind me while I was smoking, .

and one of these hysterical safety fools took

a shot at me, and I dodged the bullet.

Also, on the issue of people protecting
you from me, maybe they should not permit
me to drive a car, as many more people are
innocently run over than die from second-
hand smoke. Maybe they should have gas
masks as well as condoms in the medicine
cabinet. Safe sex and safe smoke! A great
idea. Also, since AIDS is often a result of
someone not being protected from someone
else, we might want to follow up the AIDS

- Memorial Quilt with the secondary smoke

version of it. It would only be the size of a
blanket or pillowcase, not a full quilt. In
December, we’ll bring the Second-Hand- ©
Smoke Memorial Washcloth to Johnston
Gym.

Third, to people who wish to save me
from myself: I really appreciate your con-
cern. In fact, sometimes I need to be saved
at night on weekends, but for now, I think I
can handle it. Go back to your seatbelt
checkpoints and leave me alone. Go pass
laws forbidding people from walking down
the street: people are clumsy, you know.
Also, tell me what to eat, how much to study,
and with whom I should be friends; be my
guardian angel! And-when J hear that bell at
Christmas, I’ll put out my cigarette and
know that you have gotten your wings. But
don’t fly, it’s dangerous—even for an angel.

Here’s my conclusion: you have no
case, you have no scientific facts on your
side, and you have no right to deny me my
freedom. You have your freedom of screech;
I’ll exercise my freedom of smoke.

Am I strong enough to survive an interracial relationship?

» Oil and Water from page 8

an extremely strong individual to get in-
volved in an interracial relationship. Maybe

some of us don’t like them because we are.

not strong enough to ignore the “rules of
society” and face our own genuine feelings
for someone of another race. I believe those
who have genuine feelings and the strength
to go with those feelings should be com-
mended rather than ridiculed, because both
individuals will undoubtedly have to face
several negative responses on a daily basis,
without the ability to hide.
____ And even if some people get involved
in interracial relationships because of ste-
reotypes, why should we be concerned? If
they: are truly that weak, would we really
want to date them anyway?

It is logical to believe that people from

different races can fall in love. I was always
told that opposites attract. I was always told
that true love is blind. So, why cah’t these
same rules apply to interracial dating?

Personally, I never use color as a pre-
requisite for dating someone. Still, I wonder
if I am strong enough to survive in an inter-
racial relationship. I always tell people that
if I ever, fall for a white woman, she would
have to be beautiful, intelligent, witty, and
strong. But for me to fall for any woman, of
any race, she would have to possess those
same characteristics. So what’s the differ-
ence? :

On this campus, I feel that most white
students fear dating someone of color.
Maybe this is because of what their friends
would say, or maybe just because of the
society that we live in. Ican say for sure that

if you stay away from dating someone of
color because of fear, you are missing out on
a lot. ‘I know for sure that the Aftican-
American men on this campus can “stimu-
late” women in more ways than one. And I
am sure that the African-American women
on this campus can stimulate men as well.

Still, you should never date based on
race. As soon as more of us think in this
manner, tension concerning interracial dat-
ing might begin to dissipate. We all may
never agree with interracial dating, but we
all might have to accept it eventually.

If you want to write for Opin-
ions, go ahead. But your article
will NOT be printed unless it is
on a Macintosh disk. I mean it.

=
