THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994 ee |

The Davidsonian LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor

CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Assistant News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
BROOKE McRAE-Photography Editor

WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor _»

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Give thanks

Lately, we’ve heard that our editorials are too happy and progressive all the time. So
here’s one that is mean, pessimistic, and generally misanthropic. Happy Thanksgiving,
not.

As you return from your journey home for the holidays, remember what to be truly
thankful for. It is easy to say that Thanksgiving was just a good time to catch up on work
and sleep, a time to eat well and gain energy for the hard work that comes with December.

But it was much more than that. For many of you, this was the first time you have been
home since August, and you should be thankful for the time you had to see your family
again after three arduous months at college. Homecomings like these give you a
perspective on your life that you tend to lose with your nose always in a book.

As you sat at the table with your families, we hope you remembered and enjoyed the
smell of casseroles and homemade rolls, the crunch of the leaves under your feet, and
falling asleep on the couch in front of the Thanksgiving Day parade. We hope you
remembered to appreciate your easy, indulgent lives, where you pretend to work hard all
week to justify your weekend drinking binges. To look at your soft, college body, and
remember what it looks like, because one of these days you’ re going to have to roll off the
couch, cut your shaggy hair, and get areal job. One of these days, you’ re going learn first-
hand about the real world of pain and suffering that we live in.

Maybe it will crush you. Maybe you will become a statistic, one of the thousands who
become pieces of roadkill on the information superhighway. Maybe you'll try escape it
all, drive out to California and live underneath a wharf, subsisting on a diet of barnacles
and salt water. Or, you just might learn to deal with the system and find a niche, a wrinkle
in the establishment’s fabric that you can nestle into and lead out a comfortable, well-fed
life, never questioning the insidious machine in which you are a replacable cog.

- When you go back home for Christmas, think about what Thanksgiving meant to you.
Eat an extra piece of pumpkin pie, spend one more hour with your folks, and pet your dog
one more time. Whatever it is you do for the holidays, do it well. The days of old will soon
be gone. Soon, we will have to do our own laundry.

Thank God

This week, the SGA unanimously passed a resolution requesting that our religion
professors no longer be required to be Christians. This idea was a long time coming. No
other department has such a requirement for its professors, and while the religion
professors we have now are wonderful, it is a shame that we can’t have a Buddhist teach
courses in Zen or a Muslim teach courses in Islam.

Davidson has and should retain strong ties with the Presbyterian Church, but not at
the expense of its students. In the case of the religion department, there is no question that
we would benefit froma little diversity. We’re glad the student government has spoken
strongly in favor of this change, and we hope that it passes through the administration
without delay.

st ger’ all my feathers
plucked out, my head
chopped oft, and stuck
ina tiny room at 600
degrees

< oe my SKin ripped
off they pump it Full
of air and theow it argund.

Not only that, but the

horror is shown on
television arovnd the

It's nice ©

- have a fen
Page paper due on
Monday , a test ,
Opresentation to do on
Tvesday , arother parm:
dve on Tred oY

hone

THREE ANIMALS

THAT GET THE SHAFT ON THANKS GIVING

LETTERS

SGA action proves disappointing

To the editors,

I would like to express
my severe displeasure over
the lack of action by the SGA
in regards to the issue of
presidential qualifications.
At the meeting Tuesday
night, the SGA voted to send
a letter to the trustees ex-
plaining both sides of the
argument and to postpone
indefinitely their voting on
the issue. In essence, they
did nothing. In an act de-
signed to “save political
face” if the issue arises again,
they abandoned their charge
as representatives of the stu-
dent body.

The student government
has been given the power

and responsibility to address
and respond to issues affect-
ing students, in order to share
in “developing and maintain-
ing Davidson as a superior
academic community”
(SGA by-laws). As a stu-

. dent who has voted in every

student governmentelection
since arriving at Davidson, I
feel that I have given my
representatives, andthe SGA
as a whole, the power to do
just that. By choosing not to
voice an opinion, other than
“people are talking about it,”
they have abandoned their
task of making decisions
based upon the students’
views.

I have never expected

the SGA or my senators to
agree with me at all times;
the issue of presidential
qualifications is a good ex-
ample of the diversity of
opinion I feel with many of
them. Yet, I do expect and
feel it is vital to have the
SGA take a stand on the
tough issues facing students.
They have been given that
responsibility and have
abandoned it. Why have a
student government repre-
sentus if they are not willing
or able to make decisions?
again express my deep
disappointment in the SGA.

Sincerely,
Matt Rich ’97

Thanks for the coverage _

i &

To the editors,

I would like to congratu-
late and thank your staff for
such complete coverage of
the past week’s Union spon-
sored or co-sponsored
events. The people who pro-
duced these events not only

spent hours planning and
organizing volunteers, but
also exhausted much emo-
tional energy. Great articles
on Flyin’ Mice, the Names
Project Quilt, Dr. Ruth, the
Student Talent Show, and
the Fashion Show help to

reassure our ‘staff and stu-
dents of the terrific job they
do. Thank you again for
your support and hard work.
Sincerely,
Molly Johnson
Davidson College
Union Program Advisor

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third’floor of the Gréy Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Stop harassing the international students

To the editors,

I’ve never written a let-.
ter to the editor in my four
years at Davidson.: It’s not
that many things have not
moved me to speak, because
they have. But I’ve never
been so frustrated or moved
before to take my pen in
hand and write anything for
The Davidsonian besides a
fashion article. |

But this last week has
confused and disturbed me
so much, I can’t help but try
at least to try to get someone
to tell me why. I thought
writing to The Davidsonian
might be the only way to get
the answer.

Why, after all of our
progress, does Davidson
still have cowardly hate-
crimes occurring secretly
under the cover of voice
mail? It was an astounding
shock to me when, this week
at our FLAG meeting, one
of our members told me
about the telephone harass-
ment which has been di-
rected at Davidson’s inter-
national students. Not that

any group ever deserves to:

have such hate crimes com-

| mitted against them, but the:.

International Students?
What the hell is going
on? Whoever you are who
is doing this, do you even
know any of these coura-
geous, vibrant, and friendly
men and women who have
left their own countries to
help contribute to our com-

munity here? You must not. .

If you did, you’d un-
derstand my shock: How?
Why? The idea is so amaz-
ing, so ridiculous, so horri-
fying, that I have no idea
how to respond. The sad-
dest thing to me was the
time frame in which this
news was told to me.

The night I first heard
about the harassing phone

calls, Hal Daugherty and I

had called a FLAG meeting
to thank all of our members
for their tremendous contri-
butions to the fashion show.
We wanted to say “thanks,”
because, four years ago, the
ideathat FLAG could spon-
sor such a fantastically suc-
cessful event would be un-
_thinkable. . The names

* project Quilt had been an -

incredible success as well,

vand the time of hate I re-
«member so vividly from my. °

’ first year here seemed a thing

of the past.

I believed we had be-
come a campus that would
no longer tolerate intoler-
ance. I said those very words
to every PE 101 group I
talked tothis year. Forthese
and many other reasons, the
news of the harassing phone
calls to international stu-
dents horrified me so much.

It is as if the hate mon-
gers on the campus never
disappear — they just move
on to another group as ac-
ceptance grows in their
former area of harassment.
Ineed to ask this whole cam-
pus, please don’t make a liar
out of me, and express that
you and everyone you know
WILL NOT tolerate the
hate crimes of other mem-
bers of our community.
Please help make Davidson
a place I will be proud to
graduate from. Let’s not go
back to the hate of the past;
we’ ve already seen the dev-
-astation such xenophobia

. Can Cause... ..

?

’ Sincerely,
Cat Grimmell ‘95
