W illiam Holt Terry

MONDAY, APRIL 25, 1994

In Davidson's history, no one has served in the

Dean's office longer than our own Dean Terry, who
retires this spring after a 23-year tenure. Dean
Terry has seen Davidson rise to national promi-
nence, and, by virtue of his commitment to
Davidson's values and to its excellence, has been
instrumental in balancing the college's history with
its liberalization.

We should all thank Dean Terry for leaving our

Courtesy of College Relations college the way he has. The changes that Davidson
has experienced during his time here, including coeducation and integration,
have radically altered Davidson's make-up and even threatened its stability.
His ability to help the college remain stable while keeping in mind his role
as student advocate marks not only a devotion to the college but a certain
political genius of which few could boast.

Dean Terry has found in Davidson College a family which, in many
ways, he has nurtured to its present prosperity. As he leaves his office, he
leaves us with the task of carrying on the traditions of good sense, love of
college, and, above all, commitment to family. This is his legacy and our

The young Dean Terry was not received as warmly as he is being bid farewell. His
first day on the job, the SOB (Sons of Basement Belk) Moving Company left him

responsibility. -the editors furniture-less and wary of the next chapter in his Davidson career.
Graduates from Durham
William Holt Terry High School, gets the
is born to Mr. and heck away from Duke, Takes a year off
Mrs. William S. enrolls as a freshman at Graduates from from seminary, Becomes minister at
Terry ofDurham, Davidson College, and Davidson, enrolls at returns to Acme Presbyterian Returns to Davidson
NC, bald as a cue becomes a Sig Ep. Big Union Seminary in Davidson as Church in Riegelwood, once again, this time as
ball. year. Richmond, VA. YMCA Secretary. NC, chaplain.

1932 1950 1954 1955 1958 1962

From the Archives

The man, the myth, the legend

By Towner Blackstock

“Ah, Dean Terry,” exclaimed a lanky
freshman, meeting the Dean for the first
time at the freshman orientation picnic. “The
man, the myth, and the legend!”

Dr. Kuykendall, standing a few yards
away, nearly collapsed in hysterics. The
Dean’s eyebrows, already raised high, shot
up a few more inches into his brow. My
father just sort of stood there while my
mother snickered.

But everyone understood. When my
dad, himself a freshman, arrived on campus
in the fall of ‘62, he did not realize that a
quiet giant had also arrived with his class.
He could not possibly have known that by
the time his son entered Davidson nearly
thirty years later, William Holt Terry, quiet
college chaplain, would have left his mark
on all aspects of the college, indeed upon the
lives of thousands of Davidsonians. In many
ways, Will Terry deserves the title of leg-
end, for he has already become something of
a myth.

Who ever said Will didn’t want women at Davidson?

Funny thing, how we forget that back in
1950, Dean Terry arrived, like each of us, as
a bewildered freshman. He hailed from
Durham. History either found a niche in his
heart or proved easy enough, for he made it
his major. However, Terry’s interests ranged
farther than just his studies. He joined a
fraternity, served as assistant editor for the
yearbook, and served on the YMCA cabi-
net. The Eumanean Literary Society saw fit
to make him vice president and later presi-
dent and gave him the honorable position of
Chief Commencement,Marshall. He also
served on the Elections Board and on the
Honorary Fraternity Council. His promi-
nence in his class earned him ODK honors,
plus a mention in Who’s Who among Stu-
dents in American Universities and Col-
leges.

For those of you who feel guilty about
returning Davidson for a year after you
graduate, don’t worry. Will Terry didit, too.
He spent 1955 as YMCA secretary-before
leaving Davidson to return to Union Semi-

Photo by Amy Laukkanen

nary in Virginia. Amazing how many David-
sonians find refuge there; just a few years
later, John Kuykendall would attend the
same seminary.

But Will eventually found his way back
home to Davidson, arriving in the fall of ‘62
with my dad and a lot of other goofy fresh-
men, Just as my father and his classmates
grew up, so did Reverend Terry, becoming
head minister of DCPC just a few years
later. Notice the trends here; DCPC’s cur-
rent building was completed in ‘52 when he

was an undergrad. ‘One wonders if he, like ~

so many of his classmates, scratched his
name into the copper steeple in the days
before they hoisted it up.

Students liked Will Terry; fraternities
invited him down for dinner, students would
crash on his couch sometimes. He remi-
nisces about walking downstairs and not
knowing who he would find in his living
room. The door was always open, just like
his heart. Will Terry has always been the
students’ friend.

But with the happiness, there were
clouds. Will Terry also recalls students
crowded around his television, watching the
reports of the Cambodian bombings.
Davidson, like the world around it, lost
some of its perceived innocence.

A new time of change and turmoil be-
gan. In the midst of it all, The Davidsonian
didn’t even take the space to report Will
Terry had become the new Dean of Stu-
dents.

You know the rest of the story. 23 years
of service as the students’ friend, working

_ Davidson through some rigorous changes,

most of which he could only react to. Noone
who knows him is surprised that after so

much change, Will Terry is ready to move
on.

But everyone who loves him hates to _

see the man who has bridged three genera-
tions of Davidson leave our school. Thus
has the man become both myth and legend.

Apparently, the young Terry had a
really good toupee.

Past and Future

By Perry H. Biddle
Class of 1954

Will Terry embodies the best of
Davidson’s values and personal qualities.
He has, through the years, given his whole
lifeto Davidson, as Y Secretary, Chaplain of
the College, minister of the church, and, in
recent years, as Dean of Students.

Friends who know Will kid him about
being “married to Davidson.” I think all will
agree that it has been a happy marriage, and
as he leaves his post to live in retirement in
Davidson, it will not be a loss but a redirec-
tion of his love for Davidson in other chan-
nels.

Will’s ministry has been primarily to
young adults in their formative years at
Davidson College. He has inspired many
students, has redirected the sheep gone astray,
and has modeled good communicative skills
in relationships and over issues that could
have been destructive otherwise.

As aclassmate of Will’s, I recall him as
a very likeable person, who enjoyed sports
and activities on campus. Few of us dreamed
that he would become Dean, but, then, any-
thing can happen.
