8

OPINIONS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

The tragedy in Union, South Carolina
revealed the vulnerability of America. For
nine agonizing days, Susan Smith convinced
America it was witnessing another child
abduction. While the national news media
provided an hourly account of the search for
Michael and Alex, their mother stood before
television cameras and uttered outright lies
about their whereabouts. Union was in-
vaded by satellite trucks and reporters eager
for gossip about the case. The town became
a production studio for tabloid television.
The mystery of the disappearance of
the boys is solved now, and the sudden burst
of humanity irito Union retreated long ago.
Many Americans were devastated when
Smith confessed to drowning her children in
the murky grave of Long Lake. It was left to
Smith’s tearful relatives to provide an ex-
planation of her actions, an account that was
totally inadequate after such an ordeal.
What is unique about this case is the
degree to which people involved themselves
in the story and became emotionally con-

David Santschi

Susan Smith and Human Nature

What is unique about this case is the
degree to which people involved
themselves in the story and became
emotionally connected to its details
when the outcome was revealed.

nected to its details when the outcome was
revealed. Certainly the nation grieved over
the horrific deaths of the two boys. Yet,
their deaths are not the reason for the atten-
tion and sorrow focused on this case. This
type of abduction is heard too often in con-
temporary America. Innocent children are
abducted daily with little media coverage or
public outpouring of grief.

America became obsessed with the
deaths of the brothers for two reasons. First,

the children were killed by their own mother,
not ‘a faceless thug. The hands that once
cradled them methodically strapped them
into their carseats and drove a Mazda Pro-
tege into the water. The deaths of the chil-
dren were awful, but the transformation of
their mother into a composed killer is what
was shocking.
Second, many Americans felt betrayed
and used by Smith. Not only did she kill her
children, Smith deliberately lied to every-

one who watched television, read the news-
papers, or searched isolated forests for her
sons. Not only was Smith believable, but
many people cried with her, the killer of her
own offspring. Virtually every American
who followed this case was a “sucker” for
Smith’s testimony. When people realized
how convincing Smith had been and how
she had successfully captured national at-
tention with a fabricated story, many were
upset and startled at how easily she had
manipulated their emotions.

The funeral mourned far more than the -
passing of two children. It showed again
how our collective ability to trust people,
even those who claim to have lost their own
children, has been diminished. It’s sadden-
ing to think that a mother in distress, a
person we want to believe, is capable of such

_twisted acts. It’s downright startling to

realize that Smith’s life was not very differ-
ent from that of any ordinary person. What
Susan Smith really revealed is the dark,
chilling baseness hidden deep within us all.

A Different Perspective: Ike Bailey

Tell me you accept yourself.

Wry do we claim to be
offended when someone says
something that we do not agree
with? A few weeks ago I wrote an
article that suggested that this
country has a major racial prob-
lem, and someone promptly called
me an “extremist” because of it. I
also suggested that the black race
was incredibly strong because of
the way it handled the many hard-
ships it has faced.

After reading this, people re-
sponded as if I was suggesting that
black people were somehow “su-
perhuman.” People were really

.does mean that deep down inside

us, there is the basis for accepting
one another. Because once we
accept and love and respect our-
selves, then, and only then, can we
accept and love and respect some-
one else.

This is why the words “‘black
is beautiful” coming from the
mouth of a young African-Ameri-
can should ring like sweet music
in the ears of all of white America.
Not because you should suddenly
want to be black too. Simply be-
cause you now know that you are
dealing with a person who has

understand why two men would
enjoy each other’s. company in an
intimate way. Maybe homosexu-
als don’t understand why hetero-
sexuals enjoy the company of the
opposite gender. I don’t under-
stand why people find it so amus-
ing when I stutter. I don’t even
understand why some students
walk around campus with no shoes
on. But does this mean that I
cannot accept these things?

NO! Ican accept these things
because I know that I do lots of
things that others would never un-
derstand as well. I can accept

offended. But why? Does it
mean that if I recognize a
problem that you don’t, I’m
suddenly preaching negativ-
ity? Does it mean that if I
suggest that one group is
strong, all other groups are
weak? No! Those are not
logical assumptions.

We have a big problem,
and it does not always con-
cern race. We don’t want to
be bothered with someone
else’s problems or viewpoints.
We don’t wantto be “belittled”
by someone else’s pride. We
don’t wantanyone else toseem
more important than we are.
And this is why we can’t talk.

Instead of listening and
learning from one another to
broaden our thinking, we
would rather ridicule and force
others to conform to our ide-
als. Instead of craving for hon-
esty, we crave for comfort.
Instead of recognizing and re-

Instead of listening
and learning from

one another, we
would rather

ridicule, and force

others to
conform to our

ideals. Instead of

craving for

honesty, we crave for

comfort.
Instead of

recognizing and re-

specting our
differences, we
would rather

ignore them.

these things because I have
accepted myself.
So, with that, I want to

issue a challenge. I want a .

white American student to
tell us all how proud he/she
is to be white. I want a
female student to tell us of
how great it is to be a woman.
And I want a homosexual to
tell us how great it is to be
homosexual. Tell us how
strong you are. Tell us that
you are proud of your heri-
tage. Tell us in a way that
points out your strengths,
without trying to highlight
anyone else’s weaknesses.
Tell us that you have ac-
cepted yourself!

_ Icantell you for sure that
I am truly proud to be Afri-
can-American. I love my
tan. I love my body. I love
my rhythm. I love my
strengths. I love my creativ-

specting our differences, we
would rather ignore them. Con-
formity cannot be the answer to
our problems because we have too
many differences that cannot be
ignored.

The best thing, and maybe the
only good thing, that I have heard
come from the mouth of a member
of the KKK is the statement: “I’m
proud to be white!” That doesn’t
mean that I should be offended

because I am African-American. |

And it sure doesn’t mean that I
should want to be white. But it

accepted himself, which will make
ita lot easier for him to accept you.
We should love it when a woman
professes her strength or a homo-
sexual professes his sexuality. We
should want to see people who
have pride in their heritage and a
true love for themselves. We
should love these things because

this is the first logical step to ac-

ceptance.

We’ ve had it all wrong for too
long. Understanding is not the
first step because we will never
understand everything. I don’t

ity. [love my ancestors that
were kings and queens. I love my
ancestors that were slaves. And I
even love the fact that I can recog-
nize my weaknesses. I love being
African-American because I love
being me!

"There can be no white-black
unity, until there is black unity.
We cannot think of uniting with
others until we first learn to unite
with ourselves. We cannot think
of being acceptable to others until
we are first proven acceptable to
ourselves.” —-Malcolm X

Robert Ramsay

Through dead-rose-colored glasses

O: the heels of the University of Chicago sex study must come a close
look at the attitude toward sex in America. What such an analysis reveals
is that much of what the mass of the population is fed from outside
sources, from youth and into adulthood, is anything but healthy.

A couple of weeks ago I attended an audition in New Bern, North
Carolina. After all of the monologues, the panel of judges offered the
group some advice that might be helpful in later auditions. One of the
judges offered this: “Don’t do pieces that express cynicism toward sex.
You guys are too young to be cynical about sex.”

I thought that her comment made a sad statement about how we are
trained to feel about sex. Did she mean that if we were older our sexual
cynicism would be justified? If so, then like Peter Pan, I hope to stay

young!

But youth is not entirely a wonderworld, either. A great deal of
children are trained to think of sex as dirty and forbidden, which accounts
for so much of teen pregnancy—the rebel spirit; if it is forbidden, by God,
I’m going to doit. This attitude goes all the way back to the cookie jar.
Mom said not to touch it; I touched it and got a tasty cookie; forbidden
things yield pleasant results. :

Negative ideas about sex come from two main sources: the church

See Epiphany on page 9
