OPINIONS

MONDAY, JANUARY 24, 1994

“f

Some would say that an education is
defined not by how you feel about it while
you’re there, but by how you see it after
you’veleft, been exposedto the “real world,”
and found out how prepared you actually
are. For instance, my high school has a
terrific reputation, and we were constantly
assured that college would be a breeze after
the strenuous load of work we completed.

Believing that, I entered Davidson con-
fident that I would once again do well with-
out cracking a book. Well, it just has not
happened that way. However, when you
return from college for an extended break
such as the one we all just had, you have
more of a frame of reference on how far you
have progressed, and how much you have
learned.

So away I flew, filled with dreams of
home, Santa (for whom I did not have time

Gull's Nest: Bill Gullan
I actually learned something.

to even make cookies), and an all-sports
radio station to occupy much of my time.
What also loomed before me were the end-
less Christmas parties with distant family

.friends, the tedious telephone conversations

with long lost relatives, and the (sincere)
thank you notes to people who expected the
litany of my semester’s experiences to ac-
company my perfunctory paragraph of grati-
tude.

This was the test. Am I any more
culturally literate than I was the last time I
was in Philly, or am I just treading water?
Fortunately, I found that I am getting better.
The constant flow of B.S. I usually employ
when I am frustrated and the uncharacteris-

tic shyness I have when with my parents’
friends continues to disappear. People I
never found particularly interesting before
engaged me in substantive conversation. I
am sure they feel the same way!

Thad a discussion with a law professor
and neighbor which I actually enjoyed. I
had a dinner with the people down the block
from which I actually didn’t depart early to
go out. I wrote a two page thank you letter
to my grandmother. I don’t consider myself
all that intelligent and articulate, and I cer-
tainly don’t see myself as mature, but maybe
the process we all hear about is beginning to
take its course.

Sure I curse at the TV when the Eagles

are scored upon, and I complain when my
parents ask me to do something, but educa-
tion and living on my own have definitely
increased my knowledge and improved my
attitude,

Then the grades came. The old excuse
about trying “as hard as I could” is often an
example of manifest evasiveness, but it was
actually true this time! I worked hard last
semester and my grades are still only re-
spectable, but the fact that I can genuinely
talk to my uncle, the chemistry professor, is
proof that college is helping and is not just
an exercise in making excuses and blowing
things off.

So absorb what you can and try your
best; even if the grades aren’t stellar, you'll
at least be moving towards mastering the
singularly adult institution that is the dinner

party.

Robert Ramsay

What am I doing?

This issue of The Davidsonian was a
surprise to me. I thought, no way would
there be an issue the very first Monday back
to school—that would be crazy—but lo,
there is.

So, always the dutiful journalist, I go to
the computer center in rare form: unpre-
pared. I usually put a little effort into my
articles, a little research, at least some input
from other sources, but not this time. This
timeI’m going totry the Nathan Seay method
and write completely off the top of my head
and attempt to make some kind of a point,
however vague. Blame it on the editors.

I think I missed Christmas, Does any-
one else feel that way? I went home with the

flu, and it didn’t go away until Christmas -

morning. I walked into the living room, still
a little dizzy, and suddenly there were pre-

sents and decorations and, weirdest of all, a: .|

huge pine tree! There was no buildup,'no
expectation, no suspense. Just another day,

The only thing I accomplished while.
home was taking the dog to get spayed so.

she would stop dripping all overthe-carpet.

Oh, and I also wiped a blob of grape jelly off :

the wall that had been there since. I left for

school. That was my break. And then Twent:

to a deb ball in Charlotte. :

Some of you reading this have been to
a debutante ball, I’m sure, so [don’t have to
explain what they are like. I will anyway: A
bunch of parents Celebrating the maturity

that their children haven’t quite achieved:

yet. Nonetheless, I enjoyed myself.

One of the parties that was part of the
debutante ball conglomerate was this thing
called a casino party. I went with Jennifer
Reisenleiter and almost had a good time.
Okay, what do you call playing games like

craps, blackjack, and roulette and then giv-”
ing out prizes to those who do the best? You

call that gambling, and it is illegal., But
Jennifer and I were convinced that it was all
in fun.

We did very well, actually. Jennifer i is
quite the high roller. At the end of the night
we had accumulated a total of 2,400 chips.
This happened to be the second highest
amount of chips at the party.

But it was all in fun, right? So, on the
very last roll, Jennifer said, “Hey, Bobby,
let’s put everything on one number on the
roulette table!” I said, “No, that would be
silly. We would lose everything.” She said,
“Come on, let’s just blow it!”

Attempting to be a gentleman, I con-
ceded. Ofcourse, we lost. We shrugged and
laughed, feeling almost liberated. Just then,
somebody yelled, “All right, gather around
for the prizes!”

Only me. This would only happen to
me. And the prizes were not little dinky
party favors, either. There were cD players
and Gameboys and $50 bills. Jennifer and I

\

4 ;
EXOUGG ME, PRESENT YELTSIN, VLADIMI2. ZHIRINVOSKY TO SEE You... ~

had to leave—we felt sick. It was totally her
fault but I didn’t want to say anything.
Now, let’s see how my Christmas break

.. is going so far. ‘I’ve had the flu, stopped a
. dog from menstruating, cleaned jelly off a

wall, and lost a fabulous prize. And there’s
-more.
Coming home from Charlotte, I got
stuck in the worst traffic jam in Atlanta’s

_ history. This is no exaggeration. In a few

years history books will have a chapter
called “The Worst Traffic Jam in Atlanta’s
History,” and in the corner of one of the
pictures, in what looks like a parking lot but

‘is really I-85, you will see me.

The last part of my break was spent
sailing. I didn’t think anything too bad
happened on this little trip, but I was notified
otherwise. It turns out that Chris Knox and
Alexis West hada big problem with the fact
that they cooked all the meals. I did, in fact,
cook chili one night, but it was too hot for
Alexis and probably had onions or one of the
many other food products the mere aroma of

which makes Chris vomit.

But they do not tell all. Here’s my
experience. I’m down in the galley making
PB&Js. Others express interest in the food

"In a few years history books
will have a chapter called, "The
Worst Traffic Jam in Atlanta's
History," and in a corner of one
of the pictures, in what looks
like a parking lot but is really
I-85, you will see me."

I am preparing. I offer to make some for
everyone. However, it turns out that my
sandwiches have too much peanut butter or
too much jelly or the crust is still on the
bread or the bread is not in the shape of a
quintessential piece of bread. So, I am
quickly and quietly removed from my posi-
tion. And yet they have the gall to complain

that I did none of the cooking. Sorry, I was
too busy manning the boom, which I was
doing when the mainsail ripped, which I
don’t need to get into.

Progress report: flu, dog on period,
jelly, loser at casino, worst traffic jam in the
entire world, make people vomit, ripped a
who-knows-how-expensive sail. Pretty sad.

Do you ever daydream about your life
being a movie? I do sometimes. For in-
stance, I imagine what I would be like if my
life were Top Gun. And then I realize that I
would be the co-pilot and get killed halfway
through. Or maybe Basic Instinct. I'd be
that fat guy who interviews Sharon, and
that’s it.

Not to sound so cynical or self-debas-
ing, but it just seems lately that the really
good stuff passes by almost close enough to
grab, but not quite. You see, I could have
wonaCD player, Ialmostmissed that traffic
jam, my food was almost edible.

See Ramsay on page 8

Don't let schooling get in the way of education.

Rees continued from page 6

student agrees to maintain a high level of
dedication and to accept her teacher’s direc-

tion. According to this type of contract, we

agree to accept their criticism and complete
hard work, that we thought was done. Itis an
exciting relationship to have with a teacher,
and it can happen any time on the curve of
your learning.

There is yet another play we may per-
form with our teachers. It is a high risk
game, for nothing less than education is at
stake: both the teacher’s and the student’s.
In this contract, the student agrees to stake
everything in pursuit of education. To reex-
amine cherished beliefs and to push at the

boundary between known and unknown. In
this special relationship, the teacher agrees
to listen with a charitable ear to the suspi-
cions of the student and through their con-
versation to put at risk her own professional
views. In this high stakes game, schooling,
learning, and education are nothing less
than thrilling.

These are my personal ideas for what
happens in education, my version of Mark
Twain’s famous saw “I never let my school-
ing get in the way of my education.” Your
scenario may be different. Other types of
education may involve taking a course out-
side of your major (merely because the
course description is interesting) or getting
involved with one of the organizations on

campus that work for the betterment of the

university, the city, or the planet.
Whatever your scenario for “educa-
tion” is, there is one element to learning that
is common among students of all ages. I
think of it as putting something at risk. This
is our job description as students: to put
ourselves into situations where we have to
be better than we already are. I think we
have a right to hold our teachers to a very
high standard of excellence in education,
but we must also be willing to live up to our
part of the bargain, mindful that if the fac-
ulty determines the excellence of the institu-
tion and the administration conditions its
direction, that the students provide its sparkle.
JM. Rees
