16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

s he grabbed a bite to

eat before playing to a sold-out
show in Chapel Hill, Dave Matthews

found time to talk about his inspirations
and expectations, past and:present, for the band.

February 22

Can you explain just how the
band formed?
Dave: When I finished high school,
after living in South Africa, I just left
because I didn’t want to join the army
there. I lived in New York for a while
and bounced back and forth between
the U.S. and South Africa, also spend-
ing some time in Europe. Then I was
living in Charlottesville and working
at this barcalled Miller's. While living
in Charlottesville, I got to meet a lot of
different musicians. In about a year I
wrote four songs: "Back You Up,"
"Recently," "Best of What’s Around,"
and" The Song That Jane Likes." These
were the first four songs that I had
finished, so I recorded those songs
with some friends. So I had this tape
and approached Leroy first. He played

a lot of gigs at the bar I worked at, and’

we stayed up till the early hours in the
morning very often together, and I
loved the way that he played. I just
approached him with these songs and
said, “This is what I do and do you
want to pull a band together and do a
demo.” And then I did the same thing
with Carter, who had just come back

from L.A. I had seen him play a year .

before with another band, and so I
approached him with this tape and
asked if he would like to do a demo,
and he said okay. Those were my first
two choices and the first two people I
approached. Stefan was next, and |

approached him on the advice ofsome- —

one I had been playing with for a while
named John Derth, who pushed me a
lot to get into song writing. He used to
play for Bruce Hornsby. Stefan was a
student of his and he played mainly the
upright bass. When | approached him
he said cool, and he started playing
about once a month with us. We
tehearsed a lot in the beginning to try
and get a sound because in the begin-
ning, we had no idea what sound we
were shooting for. Then a little bit

after that, before we went into the
studio for the first time, we hooked up
with Boyd. We thought that the song
“Tripping Billies” would be cool with
violin. He had a band way before we
started, but I felt that his focus had
turned to playing with us even though
his band was still going. Then the five
of us went into the studio and recorded
some stuff.

Could you tell from the begin-
ning that there was the right chemis-
try?

Dave: Yeah, a lot of people were ex-
cited about it. Mostly producers and
engineers that we knew really liked
our sound, and they were all people
that we respected. So we really began
to get inspired and began to play at this
little bar in Charlottesville called East-
ern Standard, and people were coming
out and really digging it. We played
there every Tuesday. We eventually
switched to Trax and hada keyboardist
for a little while. He was great--Peter
Grieser--but he just didn’t ea to stay

because he didn’t want to be on the
road all the time. With other priorities
in his life, he decided to leave.

Can you tell about your new re-
cording contract with RCA? Who
else approached you with offers?
Dave: We had a few people approach
us, but RCA were the ones that were
really key. They're trying to get their
rock thing together, and they don’t
have a lot of people signed to them.
Their main thing is country music and
Elvis [laughs]. They have Bruce
Hornsby and the Cowboy Junkies, but
we were happy that they didn’t have a

Photo by Katie McKelvie
Bassist Stefan Lessard is one of the nye members in the band.

e're kind of on the
which is a good thing.co

big backlog of bands; we're kind of on
the front burner, which is a good thing.
And they can push us, but not push us
like insanely hard like if we went with
Epic. It’s not like they wanted us to but
it would have been a different thing
because they're so huge and would
have asked for a lot. So we're really
happy with RCA.

How long is the contract for?
Dave: It’s for at least two albums, and
anything on the upwards of seven. We
are shooting for a mid to late Septem-
berdate for ournextalbum. We will be
taking off May and June to record the
album. This will be our first chance to
doanall-studio album. The idea would
be to record all of our songs at least
once, and then listen to them and
decide what we will do and how many
we will put on, like how many new
ones and how many jams.

How did you decide which songs
went on your first album?

Dave: Just the ones we had and the
versions we liked. That is basically all

it was. We did that whole album all
ourselves: we paid for it, we pushed it,
we did all the design, everything. We
are trying to get it distributed out west.
So hopefully we can get the first one
distributed as much as possible before
we release the next one.

You are playing out in Colorado

alot, right? Iknowthatyouare trying -

to expand beyond the Southeast.
Dave: Yeah, we play Colorado a lot,
but the Southeast is really our stomp-
ing ground. We do well up in New
York and in that area, We have tied a
line between here and Colorado. We
are trying to get into the Chicago area
and hoping to get into California as
well. So basically, the CD is every-
where we have been, and some other
special places. We have done some
edited versions of a few songs to be
sent to radio. Once we get a couple of
tunes on the radio, it will really help.
Even though the album has a lot of
downfalls on it, I don’t mind. I think
that it was a good first effort.

T heard a rumor that you might
be filming a video for MTV?
Dave: Well, we might be talking about
filming a video, that they might think
about. But that really hasn’thappened.

What do you think about the
whole MTV generation?
Dave: Well, I think it is fine. I think
that there is some crap, obviously, but
there is crap in everything. But I think
that MTV isa pretty cool channel; it’s
kind of overwhelming. It is hard to
imagine that high school is able to

compete with that. I think that they are

pretty responsible about putting some
cool shows on there; I find that quite a
lot of it is brain drain, but some of the

front burner,

BACK PAGE INTERVIEW  wonpay, marci 14, 1994
THE DAVE

Dave Matthews performs at the VanRipers Music Festival.

— y Katie McKelvie

At what point in your life did
you decide that music was some-
thing that you really wanted to pur-
sue as a career?

Dave: I was really lucky because I
had a lot of people pushing me. The
support of some of my friends estab-
lished the confidence in me that I
could write: Ross Hoffman, one of
the guys who is in management with
ups; John Derth, a trumpet player
who I used to play with; and Greg

Howard, who played keyboards on
our last album. I knew that music
was my dream, but I hadn’t really
done anything with it, and they all

stuff took some intelligence to make.
Whether or not it spreads any cool
ideas around, I don’t know. I wish that
the people in the music industry were
a bunch of educated music lovers that
wanted to sell music from Botswana

and Algeria. But it's all one-sided
stuff. There is a lot of great American
that gets neglected by the powerful
forces in the industry. But I think that
alot of it just gets missed. There's a lot
of great stuff that young people and old
people would get off on. There is just
not an effort made to reach out and get
that stuff. Someday we will have a
video on MTV, I have nothing against
it, hopefully one day. The 12-18 age
group is the big market, as far as sell-
ing discs. If college kids dig you,
that’s cool because they will come out
and support you at the clubs, and it’s
fun to hang out with college kids. ~
Do you remember the first al-
bum you listened to?
Dave: On my sixth birthday, I got
Magical Mystery Tour. That was my
first record. Then I was obsessed. All
that I did with my time was buy Beatles
albums. Until I was thirteen, the only
music I heard other than the Beatles
was my brother's. He was five years
older then me, and he’played a lot of
Led Zeppelin and Bob Dylan. They
were definitely a major influence, be-

Recently

_ get your own band together and write

helped me along. I had never really
played live; I had sung a little with a
band that a friend of mine, Tim
Reynolds, was in. Tim was on our
album, and he was the first person
who said to me, you should really

songs. It was ashort period between
me starting to write and the band
getting together. About a year after
that, the band had established itself
as a reasonably strong money-mak-
ing machine, so we could support
ourselves. Most of the writing that I
have done has taken place since the
band has gotten together. I write a
song and present it to the band, and
we put our different histories to-
gether and try to get different inter-
pretations and stuff.

Where do you see yourself in
five years?
Dave: I will be more in control of my
environment. I’m assuming now
that I will be doing the same thing as
the present, but who knows, I could
be bartending.

cause they just wrote so many weird,
different songs. They played really
hard stuff and the lightest stuff.
What about all of the African
music you heard when you were
younger?
Dave: Oh yeah, because I spent so
much time there, I couldn’t help it.
When I write, sometimes I think, “Oh,
that’s got a real African feel to it.”
“Recently” has a real African groove.
What is your writing philoso-
phy? In “Lie in our Graves” and
“Best of What's Around,” itseemsas
though you are trying to tell people
not let their lives slip away and live
each day to the fullest.
Dave: There is a lot of that emotion in
it: to make the best out of the time we
have. It is not really a decision that I
try to make, but I try to find lyrics that
I am not embarrassed to sing. When I
find something I like, I say to myself,
“Well, that’s not too bad; it’s not
cheesy.” With lyrics I am trying to

, tread in the area where people will

easily get something out ofit but notbe
too blatant. The lyrics are very often a
reaction to whatever song, the song
gives mea feeling and the lyrics match
these emotions. So when we are on
stage playing live and you can’t under-
stand what the hell I am saying, you
can still get a feeling for it.

BY JON SANDS
