16

resident John Kuykendall

and Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid Nancy Cable Wells discuss the 13.5%
cap on financial aid and Davidson's future

Given what we know about fi-

nancial aid at Davidson, what strate-
gies in the face of the cap are most
likely to meet our goals of cost con-
tainment and an able and diverse
student body?
President Kuykendall: Obviously,
among the things that must be done is
to raise more money in funding which
is directed explicitly to financial aid.
We intend to raise our goal in the
Campaign for Davidson in the area of
financial aid and to expand that be-
cause we’ve really already achieved
the goal we set out to reach. That
effort, which will certainly be success-
ful, will have to be succeeded by other
efforts to continue to raise that portion
of the endowment which will be dedi-
cated to financial aid.

That’s one thing we have do. We
also are going to have to discover
appropriate ways in which to allocate
resources, on one hand to meet the
needs of those students who ought to
be at Davidson in the best way we can,
and on the other hand, to provide at
least some basis for a merit program
which attracts people with special tal-
ents irrespective of the needs they have.
So we’ve got to balance that. We are
in the process of learning about the
balance between need-based aid and
non-need aid, particularly special tal-
ents and gifts. It’s going to take us a
while, I think, to discover the happy
medium where we’re going to have to
do both kinds of financial aid using
resources generated through restricted
funds,.the endowment, and also using
resources we have available within the
budget of the college under the cap of
13.5 %.

The committee that proposed the
cap stated in its final report that fund-
raising efforts for financialaid should
be stepped uptomeetthisneed. What’s
being done or planned in that area?
President Kuykendall: That does re-
spond to that because obviously when
we designed the campaign originally,
we foresaw $20,000,000 within the
$150,000,000 for financial aid. We
reached that overall goal, though, in
reverse of what we’d anticipated be-
cause our hope at that point was that
we’dadd $5,000,000 on the need-based
side and we would add a $15,000,000
merit package of some sort.

We’ve gotten, I think, alittle more
precise, if not sophisticated, in the way
that we’ve looked at what merit aid
ought to be since we drafted the origi-
nal proposal. But what has happened

- in the early stages of the campaign is
that the response from most of our
constituencies who are interested in
giving to financial aid has been on the
need-based side rather than the merit
side. One of the efforts we’re making,
especially in this latter phase of the
campaign, and along a certain kind of
contingent after the campaign goal is
reached, is on the merit side to see
what we can do to put that whole piece
together. ;
Dean Cable Wells: What that might
say is that some of the donors among
the Davidson family who have chosen
to give to this purpose have recognized
the importance of need-based aid to
keep Davidson affordable and acces-
sible to students of all different kinds

of groups. Now we’re sure we can go
out and raise more merit aid on top of
that need-based.

President Kuykendall: One other pass-
ingcommenton the terminology we’re
using: maybe we should be saying
need versus non-need because every-
one has merit, but non-need is a kind of
anon-term. We’re trying to say grants
that are given irrespective of need, but
may be given to people who have great
need at the same time, but will be given
on the basis ofsome particular talent or
accomplishment.

Dean Cable Wells: Another way to
think about that, too, is that in the
admission and financial aid effort, at
least as far as bringing first year stu-
dents to Davidson, we’re trying to
shape a class. We’re not going to
reject everyone below this SAT and
accept everyone aboveit; instead, we’re ”
going to try to pick a group, in sets of
talents, among the pool of applied stu-
dents, and shape a class thatis vital and
vigorous in itself.

 Doesthe cap jeopardize our con-

tinuing efforts to enhance Davidson’s
diversity?

President Kuykendall: I think we have
reason to be concerned about all kinds
of possible implications of the cap, but
I would think that on the scale of
things, the issue of diversity may be a
little better off than some of the other
concerns because there will be monies

targeted for special circumstances. It’s
too soon to tell what the cap’s going to
do. We’re trying to minimize the im-
pact of it, and one of the things in the
budget that the trustees adopted this
year was alittle bit ofa cushion to help
us make sure that the entering class,
the class of ‘98, doesn’t bear the brunt
of the onset of the cap. So, we can kind
of cushion the blow and also be very,
very sensitive and responsive, year by
year, to what’s going on. The cap,
though it’s a set policy of the trust-
ees—the trustees are certainly not go-
ing to let any policy stay in existence
for very long if it’s
proving to be detri-
mental to these
kinds of goals. So, I
think we’re encour-

aged to think that we

can make necessary

adjustments as they

are apparent to us, Dean Cable
but we’re commit- Wells

ted right now totry  -
to implement the trustee policy and
work with the cap.

I think the answer to your ques-
tion is that we don’t know what may
come. It’s a situation in which we’re
anxious, but I don’t think the sky is
falling in. It’s not.

Dean Cable Wells: It’s not a threaten-
ing situation; it’s a matter of that fine-
tuning of a balance that puts in check a
controlled expense that was running
out of control relative to the other
needs of the college. It may mean, in
the most optimistic way, if our donors
really come forward, we may have the
opportunity to be in a better place than

we could have ever been just based on
college funds. This cost containment
effort gives us the chance to say to
other members of the Davidson fam-
ily: this is what we want to be; this is
what makes a vital education and we
need you to help us to become that.
President Kuykendall: And we’ve al-
ready received good response on that
front. There are three or four scholar-
ship funds already in the process of
being established by donors which are
responsive precisely to the need for
diversity. I think Dean Cable Wells’
statement is correct: I think we com-
pensate in the contributions and in the
dedicated funds that are outside the
13.5% cap, and we may see a compen-
sation that really makes us more opti-
mistic than otherwise.

Dean Cable Wells: I think this trustee
policy does call for this evaluation.
We’ re building systems so we'll know
whether this thing is working or what
impact it’s having as we get through
the process a little further, not just this
year but in the ensuing years. My
sense is that we all want to consider, to
evaluate, to study this issue and the
effects it’s having, pro and con.

How will the monies “saved”
from these cost containment efforts
be used? i
President Kuykendall: That’s hard to
peg. If recent experience is any index
of what the future looks like, there will

be two or three areas in which we will
be obliged to stand tall. One has to do
with appropriate compensation for fac-
ulty and staff. We are, in general, in an
unfavorable comparison with most of
our peer institutions in terms of what
we are able to pay in salary benefits to
faculty and staff. That has been prior-
ity number one, even before financial
aid, for most of the ten years I’ve been
here, and has to continue. Another
thing that we’re confronting is the fact
that we cannot afford the “luxury” of
allowing our campus facilities to run
down over a period of time, a phenom-
enon whichis known as deferred main-
tenance. This year’s budget, for ex-
ample, provides a sum of $300,000 for
coming to grips with some very. basic
maintenance problems on this cam-
pus, a lot of which are not too glamor-
ous.

But basically, we’re really not
talking about savings; we’re not going
to get money back; we’re just going to
hold the line there so those percent-
ages don’t diminish. What we’re talk-
ing about is not saving money to put
somewhere else. What you’re talking
about is avoiding further erosion of
other budgets. But your question is
fair; where is the money going to be
spent. It’s going to be spent on people
and facilities.

Given the risks of capping fi-
nancial aid, what do you hope will
happen?

President Kuykendall: Of course, in
the best of all possible worlds, we
maintain, or even in some areas we
enhance, the goals for which we were
provided for financial aid to begin

THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, MARCH 7, 1994

Tr ae

Be
"

President John W. Kuykendall

ii
FACING THE CAP

Courtesy of College Relations

A Changing Davidson

Though the Davidson commu-
nity has only recently begun to real-
ize the implications of the 13.5% cap
on financial aid, the Admissions and
Financial Aid Offices, President
Kuykendall, admiiistrators, faculty,
and even students have been prepar-
ing for the effects since the trustees

adopted the policy in ‘92.

Davidson will no longer be able
to guarantee all entering freshmen
financial aid covering 100% demon-
strated need; however, the trustees
felt the cap necessary to retain a bal-
anced college budget.

With the effects of the cap
quickly becoming a reality in the up-
coming year, the situation seems all
the more serious. The Financial Aid
Planning Team has already deviseda
set of strategies to compensate for the
inadequate funds in an effort to main-

equally, regardless of their needs.

tain an academically able and diverse
student body.

The team, headed by Dean of
Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy
Cable Wells, calls for Admissions to
maintain its “need-blind” admission
policy in reviewing applicants. As
always, students will be considered

The Campaign for Davidson and
other efforts launched by the Devel-
opment Office will continue to raise
money for financial aid, both need-
and merit-based.

Aceording to Dean Cable Wells,
the stronger applicants will receive
the full packages while those who are
not as academically able will be
“gapped,” or offered packages that
provide for only 85% to 90% of the
demonstrated need. For next year
and into the future, 50 to 100 "gapped"
freshmen will find their financial aid
packages cut short around $2000.

In the spring of ‘95, after two
years’ work within the constraints of
the cap, a modified Financial Aid
Planning Team will be revitalized to
study and evaluate the effects, posi-
tive and negative. :

with. And if we continue to have to
cap, and it’s probably the case that we
will, we want to minimize the number
of students who are accepted at
Davidson, who want to be at Davidson,
and who ought to be at Davidson, but
who are unable to afford to come to
Davidson, We’ve got to find the most
creative way of packaging—that’s the
genius that Dean Cable Wells and col-
leagues are going to have to demon-
strate in the next little bit: that we make
each dollar go as far as it possibly can
and that we provide appropriate en-
couragement to everybody who is ac-
cepted, who wants to be here, and
should be here to actually go through
Davidson and get to the other end
without an unbearable burden of debt.
Ts there anything else you want
to add?
President Kuykendall: Well, I think
we don’t often enough say the kind of
gratitude the college feels toward this
committee. When Dean Cable Wells

got here a year and half ago, the first
thing I said to her was that we needed
to set up this work group that would
evaluate how we would implement the

‘policy that the trustees adopted the

previous spring. And that group
worked tirelessly throughout last year,
and they really did an incredible job.
This is not something that everybody
in the community watches like you
watch a basketball game or a concert.
This is a small group of dedicated
people drawn broadly from this com-
munity including students, faculty
members, administrators, trustees and
others who just kind of dig in and say,
how are we going to solve this prob-
lem? They do this; they invest them-
selves in it; they have a great deal of
ownership of it; and yet then they are
willing to test what they have done for
the rest of us in the community who
haven’t gone step by step with them.
And we’ll continue adjusting to make
it the best we can.

BY MANDY CURTIS
