anidsonian

"THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY"

VOLUME LXXXVI

Class of '98 arrives

By Robert Ramsay

Thursday, August 25, was a
busy day on the campus: of
Davidson College. It was the date
of the annual welcoming of the
newest crop of vintage students
that will carry on at this school
once the upperclassmen graduate
and become waiters.

License plates on the numer-
ous cars read Nevada, Wisconsin,
New Hampshire, and 33 other
states. Airline ticket stubs thrown
in the trash came from airports in
Turkey, Mexico, Russia, and 12
other foreign countries. Transfer
students arrived wondering how
different Davidson will be from
Washington and Lee, Amherst,
UCLA, and many others.

And while this was going on,
upperclassmen watched with anx-

ious eyes, thinking to themselves,
“How much better are they than
us?”

Statistics answer that ques-
tion. In the Class of 1998 there are
451 students—229 women and 222
men. This number represents 36%
of the 2724 applications received
last year. In the class are 18 Afri-
can-American and other African
students, about 25 Asian-Ameri-
cans, but regrettably few Hispanic
and Native-American students.

Of the total class, 90 were
either valedictorian or salutatorian
of their high school, and 57% were
in the top 5% overall. The middle
50% of the class scored between
1180 and 1330 on the. SAT, the
median score being 1260.

See Frosh continued on page 3

MONDAY, AUGUST 29, 1994

A freshman tells her parents goodbye on Friday,

afternoon of orientation.

i

” Photo by Robert Ramsay

Parents are encouraged to leave on the Friday

RLO prepares to tighten alcohol policy enforcement

By Ashlyn Dannelly
According to Director of Resi-
dence Life Richard Terry, “If
you’ re drinking underage, we will
cite you.” In a letter sent to all
returning students, Terry states: “It

and actions regarding alcohol use
be based not on your experiences
last year but on the specifics of the
policy.”

Terry says he sent the letter to

“reinforce what has always been
true” regarding the alcohol policy.
Terry says the new approach is
“not an enforcement policy
change.” Terry has simply in-
structed all Resident Advisors.and
Hall..Counsellors. to enforce, the
alcohol policy as revised in the
Spring of 1993, If RA’s observe
an underage student drinking alco-
hol, even in their dorm room, they
are than instructed to “dispose of

the alcohol and cite that indi-
vidual.” But, RAs cannot enter a
student’s dorm room with the sole
purpose of looking for violations.
Terry attributes the tighter
enforcementto.this year’s Federal
~Government. Senet Daoon
College. If Davidson is en to
not comply with state ABC laws
and federal guidelines, the school
“4s subject to having some federal
funds taken away. That would be

a loss of catastrophic proportions
for financial aid money.”
There has been some question
regarding transporting alcohol
froma vehicle toa ease area.

Earl

was of
he carried alcoho

has clarified the issue. According
to Terry, if a student is 21 and is
simply transporting alcohol to their

: peer was cite “because,
from his car 3
hisroom. After that incident, RLO

residence, they will not be written
up. However, Terry says, "We
don't want people to think they can
walk around with a six-pack under
their arm."

laws are residential in nature .. . we
don't have the luxury or latitude to
decide when to enforce the laws
regarding underage drinking."

dies at age 87

Chalmers Davidson,
college archivist,

By Russ Tarver
Davidson College will greatly miss the wit,
charm and southern gentility of Dr. Chalmers Gaston
Davidson. Davidson died June 25 at The Oaks
nursing home in Huntersville, North Carolina, at age

eral William Lee Davidson, the Davidson College
namesake, Davidson spent the majority of his life
serving the college as faculty member, administra-
tor, and friend.

Current upperclass Davidson College students
know Chalmers Davidson as the man who explained
during freshman orientation that “Davidson is a way
of life, based on things of the mind, tempered by
manners and morality.” Administrators, faculty and
staff remember him as a man devoted to Davidson
College and the documentation of its history.

A personable and cultured man, Davidson ad-
dressed the library staff by their last names. He
always wrote thank-you notes, sometimes even in
poetry. When he invited students to his home for
mint julips, he expected them to dress properly,
scorning the modern habit of men wearing baseball

87. A direct descendent of Revolutionary War gen- _

SS Photo courtesy of College Relations
Chalmers Davidson
insisted “must never leave this room.”
"After graduating summa cum laude from
Davidson College in 1928, he returned to the

Parking prices rise;
city tax repealed

By Ashlyn Dannelly
Due to quick action by SGA
Vice-President Allison Sabel, stu-
dents will not have to pay $70 to

‘have a car on campus this year.

However, the price of parking stick-
ers has risen from last year’s $40
fee to $50.

When Sabel found that stu-
dents would be expected to pay a
$20 tax to the town of Davidson in
addition to the $50 campus sticker,
she contacted Dean. of Students
Tom Shandley. Shandley then
talked to Director of Public Safety
and Police Ray Thrower, who in-
vestigated the situation.

According to Assistant Direc-
tor of Public Safety and Police
Rick Moore, “There is still some
question about whether the town
of Davidson tax applies to-stu-
dents.” Moore says, “They (the

pay the tax, then the college will
pick up the expense for this year.”
However, if the town of Davidson
finds they can legally apply the tax
to students, next -year’s students
must pay the tax themselves. Ac-
cording to Moore, the issue hinges
ona section of the law which states -
the town can apply the tax to those
cars which are registered as
Davidson residents through the
DMV.

Regardless, students must still
pay $50 for a campus sticker.
Thrower suggested the $10 in-
crease. However, Moore empha-
sizes that the funds generated from
parking stickers and parking fines
go to “the general funds of the.
college, not the campus police.”.

Some parking fines have in-
creased from last year. The fine
for parking in a handicapped zone

caps indoors. While working in the library, he often school in 1936 to serve as professor of history and town) have decided to table the _ increases from $75 to $100 and the
gathered with the staff during coffee breaks to tell ; issue fornow. Should they decide _ fine forparkinginno parking zones
stories about the college and its personnel, which he See Davidson continued on page 3 later this year that students should _ increases from $40 to $50.
a | (summertime Film Festival Adventures | Previews
| : Pane sie Freshmen | Will takes a look at the fall
THIS WEEK and easy living Bill Gullan returns as hall coun- Odvaned GoM abe Riihay Srecare
" res Sa j selor with another list or movie fe po Dalia
First Class Mail Some Davidson students travel | Riera ae participants _ for the season ahead.
U.S. Postage Paid the world; some stay at home. ; : surrive.
Permit #1 Ss
Davidson, NC 28036 NEWS 4-5| | OPINIONS 9 | |ARTS SPORTS 14

