THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 28, 1994

13

STILL AN OPEN QUESTION

Vincent Foster’s Dea

AS IT A SUICIDE?

crime scene photos — have been “underexposed” in the Park

The sudden death of Vincent W. Foster, Jr. is a closed
issue, right?

The White House Deputy Counsel died of a self-inflicted
gunshot wound to the head, so says the recently-replaced
Whitewater independent Counsel Robert Fiske. It’s an open-
and-shut case of suicide, the government tells us.

Even the recent Congressional hearings didn’t ask, much
less answer, the serious questions raised by Foster’s death.

Fortunately, the government is not the judge of what the
American people have a right to know.

WHAT YOU ARE ASKED TO BELIEVE

To believe that Vincent Foster’s death was simply a rou-
tine suicide, one must accept a number of unusual premises
found in the Fiske and Park Police reports:

¢ Foster, a devoted family man with three children, left no
suicide note, bade no farewell and made no final
arrangements;

e Foster left work in mid-day, after eating a full lunch, to
take his own life violently;

¢ Foster’s activities are totally unaccounted for from the
time he left the White House at 1 PM, until his body

Police labs?

¢ How could Fiske so easily accept the medical examiner’s
explanation that there were no X-rays of Foster’s body
because the machine was “inoperable,” when both the
autopsy report and the Park Police dss clearly state X-
rays were taken?

, © Why do blood tracks on Foster’s fice indicate his head
assumed four distinct positions after his instantaneous
death?
¢-How did blood run uphill, as one of the blood tracks on
Foster face shows, when his head was found in a normal,
straight-up position on a steep slope.
¢ Why did neither the Park Police nor Fiske’s investigators
follow basic police practice by interviewing the many neigh-
bors around Fort Marcy Park to see if they heard or saw any-
thing unusual that fateful day?
¢ Why didn’t anyone interview the person who spent the pre-
vious weekend with Mr. and Mrs. Foster?
¢ Why did Fiske’s investigators, according to published
reports, badger the confidential witness into changing his tes-
timony about the crime scene to fit their own conclusions?
¢ Why is conflicting evidence, such as the claim by the same
confidential witness to have seen wine cooler bottles near the
body and in Foster’s car, left out of the Fiske report?
¢ Why were observations by emergency workers noting addi-

was found shortly after 6 PM;

¢ Foster took his White House electronic pager, and
drove to a small, obscure Virginia park he was never
known to have visited before;

¢ Foster walked 600 feet through the wooded park without getting a trace of soil
on his shoes or clothing (according to an FBI analysis);

* e Foster climbed down the side of a steep slope, in order to sit down amidst knee-

high foliage;

¢ Foster fired the supposed suicide gun — an antique 1913 Colt — which his fami-
ly still can’t positively identify;

¢ The gun had only two bullets (mo matching bullets were found in his home);

¢ Foster fired the gun using his right hand, even though, according to the Boston
Globe, he was left-handed;

Despite the explosive recoil, the gun remained in his “opposite” hand;

¢ Although Foster allegedly had placed the gun’s barrel deep into his mouth, no
blood was visible on the gun, no teeth were damaged or broken, and save for
some powder debris on the wound itself, no powder burns were found in the
mouth;

¢ No fingerprints were found on the gun, which was found neatly at his side;

¢ Despite the violent manner of death, his body fell into a stereotypical death
position with arms arranged perfectly at his sides, as “if he was ready for the
coffin,” as one paramedic put it; and

¢ Only a small amount of blood was seen on the front of Foster’s body.

WHY WE ALL SHOULD CARE

As Deputy White House Counsel, he was the highest-ranking federal official to die
under mysterious circumstances in 30 years. What happened to Vincent Foster is of con-
cern to every American,

The American public has a clear and pressing right to know the circumstances that
led to this high-ranking federal official’s death.

Was there a Whitewater connection to Foster’s death?

On July 20, 1993, the night Vincent Foster died, at least three senior White House
aides — Bernard Nussbaum, Patsy Thomason and Maggie Williams — admitted they
entered Foster’s office and removed files. Why were these senior aides, late at night, and
only hours after Foster’s untimely death, rushing into his office to remove files? What files,
in addition to Whitewater, were taken from the office and later, from his safe?

Despite the importance of these matters:

¢ Two Congressional “Whitewater” committees have already chosen to avoid

addressing the serious issues of Foster’s death.

¢ Despite having the authority and without explanation, former Independent

Counsel Robert Fiske refused to convene a grand jury for his probe into the
Foster death.

¢ Similarly, Fiske also did not use a grand jury for the investigation into the

removal of documents from Foster’s office.

¢ And no grand j ene used to look into charges that the White House and

Justice Department may have obstructed justice by deliberately keeping the
FBI out of the Foster death investigation, in favor of the less experienced Park ~
Police.

¢ Unlike every other aspect of Fiske’s Whitewater investigation, no one involved

in the Foster case was placed under oath.

WE HAVE A RIGHT TO KNOW

Don’t we all deserve answers to the following questions?

¢ Where was Foster in the hours prior to his death?

¢ Why didn’t Fiske investigate the hairs which the FBI found on Foster’s clothing?

¢ Why didn’t the government investigate how carpet fibers of various colors came
to be all over his expensive clothing?

¢ Why was Judge William Sessions hurriedly fired the day before Foster’s death,
leaving no permanent head of the FBI for several weeks? ‘

¢ Was the investigation, as Sessions has charged, “compromised from the begin-
ning” by this action?

¢ Why were the Park Police given exclusive jurisdiction over the investigation of
the death of such a high-ranking White House official?

© Why was an inexperienced officer — someone who had never conducted a homi-
cide probe — permitted to serve as lead investigator?

© Why did the Park Police, within hours of Foster's death, give away critical pieces
of evidence, like Foster's pager? And the next day, his personal effects?

e How could the most elemental part of any homicide investigation — the key

Deputy White House Counsel Vincent W. Foster, Jr.

tional wounds on Foster’s head not recorded in their official

reports?

¢ How did the FBI find traces of two drugs in Foster’s blood
when the original medical examiner’s blood analysis found none?

Why did Fiske accept the White House claim that a torn-up note, allegedly writ-
ten by Foster, was found several days after his death in his briefcase, when the
Park Police, in several published reports, said the briefcase was empty?

¢ How could Foster have torn a note into 28 pieces without leaving any finger-
prints?

e Why does the government refuse to release the note for independent expert
analysis?

¢ How did Foster’s eyeglasses “bounce” 13 feet from his body through dense
foliage?

e Why was Foster’s body not exhumed?

e Why was neither the fired bullet nor any bone fragments from Foster’s head
found at the site the police supposedly found the body?

¢ How could the Fiske probe allow its conclusion to rest largely on the findings of
a Virginia medical examiner involved in two previous highly questionable sui-
cide rulings — for one of which a murderer later confessed?

¢ If Vincent Foster was depressed, what caused a depression that led him to take
his own life suddenly and violently?

AN INDEPENDENT PROBE IS NEEDED

The most compelling and detailed journalistic analysis, perhaps the only coherent

‘ independent review of Robert Fiske’s investigation of the Foster death suggests an incom-

Aca ties on tice es tes saa

plete probe into this high-ranking federal official’s death.

“A Special Report on the Fiske Investigation of the Death of Vincent Foster” by
investigative reporter Christopher Ruddy, raises serious questions about the professional-
ism and objectivity of the official probes into Foster’s death. The Ruddy report also details
how the Park Police began a cover-up the night Foster died.

The Western Journalism Center, founded by veteran daily newspaper editor Joseph

Farah, is a non-profit, tax-exempt corporation, which encourages and supports investiga-

tive reporting.

The Western Journalism Center believes in the public’s right to know, and we are
prepared to pursue the issue of Foster’s death and related matters.

But we need to hear your opinion: Does the public have a right to know?

Raise your voice. Register your interest.
| Support our work.
In return we promise to be relentless in pursuit of the truth — in this investigation

and others like it. Your contributions will go entirely to raising awareness through more
ads like this one and getting to the bottom of the Vincent Foster story.

------------------------44

REGISTER YOUR VOICE

Ly I agree; of course, I have a right to know the full details of the death of Vincent W,
Foster, Jr. I support your independent press inquiry into his death and the handling of
the official investigation.

Ly YES, please rush me a copy of Christopher Ruddy’s Special Report on the Fiske
Investigation of the Death of Vincent W. Foster. I have enclosed a tax-deductible dona-
tion of at least $5 to receive the exclusive 16 page report.

Ly YES, I have enclosed an additional $ because I want to help the Western
Journalism Center sponsor an independent investigation into the Foster case, as well as

help defray the cost of ads like this one in newspapers across America. I understand my
contribution is tax deductible.

NAME:

ADDRESS:
CITY:

STATE: ZIP:

Please return this form to Western Journalism Center,
PO Box 2450, Fair Oaks CA 95628

Make all checks payable to Western Journalism Center.

The Western Journalism Center is a non-profit, 501(c)3 California corporation.

Our Federal Tax 1D number is: 68-0260052 ALO
Som Gn mem ene Ge EE Ro GE me Ge oe Gn Ge Ge Ge oe

