Davidson the committee hopes to.

have every area of campus in-

centrate on actually making the
panels.

A variety of fundraisers include the sale of note cards and t-shirts with this logo. A student talent
show will also benefit the cause. Anyone interested in performing should contact Rosie Molinary.

THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, OCTOBER 17, 1994 5
Campus prepares for “NA NA
e e -
AIDS memorial quilt ew ,
By Susan Warren _ volved. There are many volunteer
Nat May, President of the opportunities such as working at
College Union, was introduced to _an information table, welcoming
the idea of producing an AIDS _ people, or being a quiet monitor.
quilt last October whenheattended (Anyone interested in volunteer-
an Association of College Unions _ ing can call 892-2176.)
meeting. May foundeda host com- Students can also get involved
mittee of 24 to 26 people who sent by making a panel for the quilt.
in arequest and numerous applica- Panel making coordinator Brenda
tions throughout last year. In Au- Tapia talks about panel making
gust, Davidson received approval  workshopsas “trying to give people
to house 70 to 80 panels of the the opportunity if they would like Pa cetth at
“ quilt. Each panel is 3 feet by 6 feet to make a panel.” There will be : = ;
and is dedicated to someone who four workshops held in the Gal- mS  . ae
has died of AIDS. lery. They are open to students as Ml - >
The quilt will be on display in well as the public. The first work-
Johnston Gym November 10 _ shop will be held today; it will go E
through 13. The event is free; overthe specific materials needed :
Davidson students and the public and the requirements that must be AIDS MEMORIAL QUILY
are encouraged to attend. met for a specific panel. The fol-
By bringing the quilt to lowing three meetings will con- Conriesy Oe Len pare

While the big boys strike, Kappa
Sig still swings for Habitat

By Bryan Allison

In a normal October, the two
best teams in the major league
would be vying for the right to be
called World Champion in the al-
ways-dramatic World Series. But
this is no ordinary October. None-
theless, the strike will not prevent
the brothers of Kappa Sigma from
holding the severith annual Home
Runs for Habitat on October 22 at
Moore Field in Mooresville.

“Home Runs for Habitat is a
great way for us to give something

back to the community. I hope we
get a good turnout,” Kappa Sigma
Service Chairman J. D. Dupuy
says.

The event consists of 100 in-
nings of softball. The game starts
at 6 a.m. and traditionally finishes
around 6 or 7 that evening. Gener-
ally, each fraternity brother com-
mits to play for about three hours.

In order to raise money for the
event, Fundraising Chairman Brad
Herndon and DuPuy have been in
charge of soliciting donations from

Tess names are printed on the back

Spades for AIDS

TONIGHT in the 900 Room

local businesses. Each member of
the fundraising committee at-
tempted to get donations from two
businesses.

In return for a donation, busi-

of the shirts, which will be on sale
at the game for $10. Proceeds
benefit Habitat for Humanity.

If you cannot-attend but.want
to buy a shirt, contact J. D. DuPuy.
Over the past six years, Kappa
Sigma has raised over $7000 for
Habitat through this event.

SGA considers resolution for co-ed dorms

Delivery

Drivers Needed

Papa John's Pizza, the pizza company on the move. is now hiring
delivery drivers. If you are 18 years or older, have a valid drivers
license, auto insurance, a good driving record. and access to a car,

you can be on the move!

e Make an average of up to $8-an hour or more. i

¢ Work flexible hours.
e It’s a fun place to work.

° Be part of one of the fastest growing pizza companies!

© A great opportunity for advancement!

* Income varies with hours worked.
* Gas reimbursements included.

Co-ed continued from page I women; Davidson would be a dif- Sophomore Nicola Hartery Name
ferent place. Many of the best worries that this resolution could Address
does not like the idea. “I’d hate it, friendsstudentsmakeatthisschool keepsomestudents from attending Phone

because I would be self-conscious
the entire time. I’d get used to it,
but I’d never be comfortable.”
These women, however, do
not have the benefit of hindsight.
After living in a co-ed-dorm at
Duke University his freshman year,
‘Senior and Independent senator

. I 1 " | 1
Jonathan Orr supports the idea religious-affiliated background. will be raised at the SGA meeting 11 ARE | pia. Barge Uae Sorc
“100%” and believes that the co- Thetypeofpeopleattractedtothis Tuesday night. However, the ideal } Stu cans of Coce. Cola” classic with pping i One Topping '
ed dorms could improve relations school often come from families situation may notbeattainable,for | | $46)95 i $ 98 i $699 1
between the sexes. whose values coincide with many agree with Maggie Cole : a | ee | ~ Tas 1 Tas ;
- A major revision in freshman .Davidson’s. Would parents be in- _ when she says, “Co-ed or not, I tate en ch paterson : eens :

L

housing would change more than
interaction between men and

are former hall mates, and these
relationships can be traced to life
on a single-sex hall.

Junior Katie Rogers believes
that the single-sex dorms “create
the closest bonds” and having co-
ed dorms would hinder these bonds.
Davidson is also a school with a

clined to send their child to live in
a co-ed living environment?

SPEND A YEAR IN JAPAN!

The Japan Exchange and Teaching Program

If you have an excellent knowledge of English, hold
a bachelor's degree (or will receive one by
June 30, 1995), and are a U.S. citizen,

the J.E.T. Program needs you!
Opportunities are available

Davidson for that very reason. To
affirm Hartery’s concern, a parent
ofa freshman living in a single-sex
dorm says she would not feel good
about a co-ed setup. “I believe that
everybody needs their privacy and

modesty and ies

These arguments and opinions

wouldn’t ever want to live in a

dorm again.”

®
Delivering The RufeA Piggal

Lake Norman

19700 One Norman Blvd.

896-7272

Los cas ‘cun Gem ‘ono as uw teen on ei

RESTAURANT

FAMILY OWNED & OPERATED BY RICK BRYANT & CINDY BOOKER
ALL OUR FOOD IS AS FRESH AS !S POSSIBLE TO OBTAIN.

WE'RE KEEPING “REAL FOOD” ALIVE IN MOORESVILLE
¢ STEAKS ¢ SWORDFISH ° ALL MENU ITEMS HOMEMADE
¢ GRILLED CHICKEN ¢ BURGERS INCLUDING DESSERTS
* SPECIALTY SANDWICHES © BEER & WINE

SERVING LUNCH MONDAY-FRIDAY 11:00 A.M.-2:00 P.M.
¢ ORDERS TO-GO + DAILY LUNCH SPECIALS
SERVING DINNER FRIDAY-SATURDAY $:00 P.M.-10:00 P.M.

COME JOIN THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE RAFTERS

663-7322

761 NORTH MAIN STREET

in Japanese schools and
government offices.

MOORESVILLE

THE RAFTERS RESTAURANT THANKS THEIR CUSTOMERS & HOPES TO SERVES YOU SOON!

APPLICATION DEADLINE IS DECEMBER 10, 1994
