THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, OCTOBER 31, 1994 7

LEIGH RAWDON-Editor in Chief
ALEX CRUMBLEY-Executive Editor
CASEY ROGERS-Managing Editor

Che Davidsonian

ASHLYN DANNELLY-News Editor
RUSS TARVER-Ass'‘t News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY-Opinions Editor
RACHEL NEWCOMB-Arts & Living Editor
WILL COBB-Sports Editor
BROOKE McCRAE-Photography Editor
WILLIAM ROBERT-Copy Editor

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly" BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Advertising Manager
SCOTT HILE-Operations Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN-Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD-Circulation Manager

ERIK SJOSTROM-Circulation Manager

Boo.

Be careful tonight.

When you put on your plastic mask and set out to have a good time with all the other
ghosts and witches prowling the campus, heed these words: don’t take this holiday lightly.
It is older than most others we celebrate, and, frightening as it may seem, it carries on its
hoary back a much darker and bloodier history than most of us would comfortably admit
while walking around on a windy October night. \

Halloween began in the second century B.C.E. as a Celtic druid observance of the eve
of Samhain, or “summer’s end,” on October 31, the last day of the Celtic calendar. It was
a day of feasting after the harvest and preparing for the cold winter to come, but it was also
the day the lord of the dead would bring together all the people who had died during the year.
The deceased were known to roam around and play tricks on the living, and the druids would
sacrifice horses and human beings to pacify the mischevious spirits of the deceased. This
tradition lasted more than six hundred years, even after Europe and Britain became
dominated by Christiandom.

Later, in the 9th century, Pope Gregory IV made November 1 “All Saint’s Day” and
October 31 “All Hallow’s Eve,” (the word “Halloween” is a derivation of “All Hallow’s
Eve’) to counteract the pagan Samhain rituals which some people still practiced. These
were holy Christian holidays designed to honor martyrs and saints, but opponents of
Christianity used October 31 as a time to mock the saintly holiday with witches’ Sabbaths,
unholy rituals which usually generated into orgiastic revelry. In medieval Europe, the
persecution of witches became prevalent, and black cats were often burned on Halloween
because of the belief that they were witches in disguise. :

In the late 18th century, Halloween became less violent, but many superstitions were
still associated with the holiday. For years, people believed that they could foresee the
future on Halloween, and they would perform various rituals to predict impending deaths,
marriages, and fortunes. Welsh peasants would look through the keyhole of the church’s
doors to see apparitions of their friends who would die within the year. Young people would
peer into mirrors chanting strange verses in hopes that the face of their future spouse might
appear before them.

The holiday came to America late because the Protestant settlers did not recognize All
Saint’s Day or Halloween. In the 1840s the Irish immigrated to America heavily and
brought their folklore surrounding the eve of Samhain, October 31. Their stories about
mischevious “fairy folk” inspired Americans to celebrate the holiday, and by the turn of the
century, wearing costumes and trick-or-treating had evolved into national activities.

What is it that has made Halloween survive since the time of the druids?. Why do we
still feel it necessary to reckon with the dark and the frightening? The answer lies
somewhere in the recesses of the human psyche. Look past the costumes and candy, the
orange and black streamers, the jack o’ lanterns and haunted houses, and you will find
something a little more disturbing than a skeleton mask or a menacing cackle. You will find
the ghosts of your ancestors, wherever they are from, sacrificing animals to ward off evil
spirits, chanting into mirrors, and burning'cats. You will find something dark, something
that has crossed oceans of history and is still alive and well, in spite of our learning and our
science that tell us not to believe in magic.

Halloween is no less than acelebration of the primitive, of our repressed desire to dance
on hilltops with blazing torches to scare off evil spirits. The ghoulish, decadent overtone
of Halloween hides whatis really anecessary and healthy confrontation of this very real side
of the human mind. So go out, revel with the risen spirits, rejoice in the darkness, become
one of the ghosts. Dance with the ancient spirits, and feel the immensity of what you're
celebrating, and, for your own sake, realize that you don’t have to celebrate it only once a
year.

all background information from The American Book of Days, 3rd edition, ed. Jane M.
Hatch, The H.W. Wilson Co., New York, 1978.

Sass

TEPW
basil
fe

ae eae
=

oe

LETTERS

Tragedy and intrigue in Russia

To the editors,

I am writing this letter
from St. Petersburg, Russia,
where I am spending my jun-
ior year abroad. I am having
one of the best times of my
life and would recommend
to anyone and everyone that
they visit Russia.

_ However, this letter has
nothing to do with how Iam
doing, what Russia is like,
or what my personal opinion
is in regards to Russia. This
letter is about a very good
friend of mine from Brown
who was also studying here
for a year. His name was
Tony Riccio, and we met
three weeks ago in Moscow
when our program started.
Tony died last Tuesday in
Moscow when he fell from
the balcony of a 15-story
building. He died instantly,
as he fell on his head and
was found by Russian boys
playing soccer. These boys
immediately went to get the
two other American students
living in the dorm. The stu-
dents were living on the sixth
floor, and it seems the bal-
cony from which Tony fell
mightnothave been his own.

The reporters may have
already gotten this story
printed; in fact, I’msure they
have. In which case, this is
old news to all of you. Once
again, though, I am not writ-
ing this in order to tell you
the facts. Rather, I would
like to share with you a little
bit about Tony. I wish ev-
eryone could know who he
was:and what he was like.
I'd hate for anyone to ever
refer to Tony only as the
American student who died
in Russia this year. He de-

serves so much more than
that.

I met Tony at lunch one
day. We sat opposite each
other and were both grimac-
ing at our unappetizing, over-
cooked, fat Russian sausage,
and we grinned at one an-
other. We talked. He went
to Brown—I played the do-
you-know game. After
which we mused on the non-
existent coffee which we
both wanted, and the two of
us decided to go drink a cup.

I guess I should men-
tion a bit about what Tony
looked like. He was tall and
thin, he had short black hair
and very dark brown eyes, a
goatee that was not tacky,
and a wonderful sense of

style. He was Italian, very
handsome, and one of the

happiest, nicest guys I’dever
met.

We took off for our cup
of coffee peshkom (on foot),
as the Russians like to say,
thinking we’d- be gone
maybe an hour. It turned out
that none of these little cof-
fee shops they have in Rus-
sia ever sell coffee (go fig-
ure), and we ended up
searching for three hours
before we found a little Rus-
sian-style cafeteria that did.
By that point we’d given up
going peshkom and had
hopped on random tramvals,
trolley buses, and the metro.

Finally, we settled into
a little dimly-lit cafeteria
playing soft Russian music,
and the only other people
there were the old Russian
couple who ran the place.
We drank cowboy-style cof-
fee that had coffee grounds
at the bottom of the cup, and

we talked for hours. It
seemed coffee had never
tasted so good, and we men-
tioned over and over how
much it had been worth it. I
assume that to anyone else,
though, it would have tasted
like crap.

We each drank three
cups of coffee, smoked a few
cigarettes, and talked. .The
conversation came easily
that day, and it went on for
hours. I can’t stress enough
how psyched Tony was to
be in Russia, probably more
so than anybody else. He
wanted to meet every Rus-
sian, become friends with
everyone, and live the best
possible Russian.experience
of his life this year. He told
me about his job as a life-

guard this past summer and
how, much he loved chil-
dren—he’d already found a
job babysitting a friend’s
new-born baby. He told me
about his parents and how

much in love they still were.

And he said he was scared of
falling in love because it

might never stand up to his
parents’ relationship. Imen-
tion this only because at this

moment it is the only thing I
can be glad about: knowing

that no matter how hard their

child’s death is to deal with,

at least his parents can lean

on each other.

Weleaned oneach other
as we walked home and held
hands for part of the way;
one of the fastest and most
comfortable friendships had
formed that day. It was eas-
ily oneofthebestafternoons _
I'd spent in Moscow.

See Don on page 9

To the subscribers

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words and
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising

Dear subscribers,
We have heard from

to drop the newspapers at
the post office before the

did not publish a newspaper
during fall break, October

many of you that you have delivery truckevenmakesit 10), then please contact our
been patiently waiting for tocampus. This way, your circulation managers, and
your issues of The newspapersshouldbeinthe they will mail you the ap-
Davidsoniantoarriveinyour - hands of the U.S. Postmas- _ propriate back issues.

mail boxes. To address this _ terbefore your daughters and We apologize for this
problem, we have arranged sonsgettheirhandsonthem. _ terrible inconvenience.

for our printing company to If, however, you are Sincerely,

attach the mailinglabelsand __ missing specific issues (we The editors

Correction

rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Inlast week’ sarticle entitled

“Rosenbach challenges re-
quirement that college presi-
dent be ‘active churchman,”
we inaccurately printed an

opinion of President
Kuykendall about the im-
pact of his Presbyterian af-
filiation on his position.
SGA President Eric

"Rosenbach was misquoted
relating his conversation
with Kuykendall.
Kuykendall was not con-
tacted for the article.
