THE DA VIDSONIAN

NEWS MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 1994 . 5

By Beth Bacon

present the survey results to the

Surveys may spark reforms at student heath

On August 29th, Senior Class
President B.J. Rudell distributed a
survey to all seniors asking vari-
ous questions regarding the Stu-
dent Health Center at Davidson.
Since then, 136 of the surveys have
been turned in, and their results
have been compiled.

In response to the question
regarding the “quality of care” in
the Student Health Center, the av-
erage grade wasaC+. The Student
Health Center staff received a grade
of B for their “friendliness and
compassion.” Forty-six students
polled believe that the Student
Health Center “serves Davidson
students adequately,” 47 believe
that it does not, and 43 answered
“maybe/no opinion.”

After discovering these re-
sults, Rudell wrote a letter to Dean

Shandley to inform him of the se- -

niors’ opinions and to suggest that
they “discuss their options” at a
later date. Rudell also decided to

SGA. Several SGA members and
members of the student body
agreed to meet with Dean Shandley
to express their concern with the
matter.

Those present at the meeting
include Dr. David Staton (Director
of the Student Health Center), Dean
Shandley, Allison Sabel (SGA
Vice-President), Jo Burrows
(Connor Senator), Rebecca Miner,
Christina Thomas, and Rudell. All
present at the meeting “agreed that
there are some concerns,” Rudell
says, “and Dr. Staton seemed very
encouraged to help out.”

By eventually meeting with
Student Health and Other Con-

cerns (an SGA committee) and the -

SGA, Rudell says “proposals can
be made for what we’d like to see
changed in the infirmary.” One
possible change involves an in-
creased amount of time that a phy-
sician is available through the in-
firmary. Currently at the Student

SGA and Honor Council runoffs
Monday

Union Pit or Chambers Lobby

Health Center, there is a different
physician available five days a
week from roughly 5 p.m. until 6
or 6:30 p.m. Rudell hopes some
proposals can be ready for Staton
a

in “a couple of weeks.”

“Dr. Staton seemed very re-
ceptive to our opinions,” Rudell
says. Staton plans to communicate
with the Student Health Center staff

Many smokers foreed to find new locations for their habit.

center

to insure that students are treated
well upon arrival at the center, He
also intends to take on each indi-
vidual concern and is “prepared to
handle every case that comes up.”

Photo by Brooke McRae

Studying smokers move to 24-hour room

Smoke continued from pagé 1

Park explains the necessary
removal of the Coke and snack
machines from the library: “We
were having trouble in the library
with food and drinks. The students
weren’t working with us, and the

machines contributed to that prob-
lem,”

This year students are allowed
to bring drinks inside the library
provided they have screw-on caps,
but “food is out of the question,”
says Park.

Non-smoking junior Jennifer

Ray says, “The smoking lounge
was not only a place to smoke, but
it was also a place where you could
relax and find conversation. It was
the romper room of the library.”

Park welcomes any sugges-
tions from students that can help
remedy the problem.

r once
educational

With Apple’ special low student pricing, you can get a terrific deal on Macintosh;
the best-selling personal computer on college campuses today. You can choose the afford-
able Macintosh Performa? which comes complete with lots of powerful software to help
get you through college. You can also choose the portable Apple” PowerBook" or the Power

’
°

Apple’ PowerBook’ 150 4/120. Only $1,528.94.

a Cul —
spending that

in

actually helps students.

with POM pte Mullble oan ng
CD-
AppleDesign’ Keyboard and mouse. Only $2,973.40.

Macintosht'— thé world’s fastest Mac” And because Macintosh is still the easiest personal com-
puter, you won't have to dig through complex manuals. Plus, with low student pricing, a Mac
is as easy to afford as it is to use. All of which makes it the ideal time to |

*” discover the power all college students need. The power to be your best? App e

For further information visit Computer Services Center

Contact Lou Duncan at x2432

*Note: Desktop systems include a StyleWriter® II printer, Word Perfect, and a surge suppressor.
PowerBook” 150 includes 8MB RAM plus Word Perfect.

All prices include shipping and

©1994 Apple Computer, Inc.All rights reserved. Apple, the Apple logy, Maino, Macintosh Quada, Performa, PowerBook and “Te power lo be your be!" re reper trademarks of ple Computer Inc. AppleDesign, Mac and Power Macintosh are trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.

