LEIGH RAWDON- Editor in Chief
__ALEX-CRUMBLBY- Executive Editor
MANDY CURTIS- Managing Editor

Che Bavidsonian |.

KATHERINE HASH- News Editor
ASHLYN DANNELLY-Ass't News Editor
ROBERT RAMSAY- Opinions Editor
JOSH LARNED-Arts Editor
SCOTT MCLEAN -Ass't Arts Editor
WILL COBB- Sports Editor
AMY LAUKKANEN- Photography Editor
ARTHUR GASTON- Copy Editor
MIKE CRUISE- Editorial Cartoonist

Founded in 1914

"The South's Foremost
College Weekly"

BILL BRYAN-Advertising Manager
KENNON GILES-Ass't Advertising Manager
JENNIFER JULYAN- Business Manager
MARIA WHITEHEAD.- Circulation Manager

Fifteen minutes of fame

Last week, Dan Jansen became the latest American hero as he skated to win his first
and only Olympic medal. We all rooted for this unusual underdog in his quest to overcome
his own mental block, but, as we have seen many times before, universal favor in the eyes
of Americans is often as ephemeral as the moment of victory itself.

With the quick and easy mentality technology and the media have brought us, the
American attention span has shrunk, as has our capacity to let our heroes enjoy more than.
the “fifteen minutes of fame” Mark Twain promised us years ago. Few of us now remember
Alan Shepard or Sam Ervin, both heroes twenty years ago, and, inevitably, Dan Jansen will
be forgotten as soon as the next sex scandal grabs the headlines.

Indeed, the American hero, and anyone who receives the dubious honor of becoming
famous in our culture, skates on thin ice. Only a few weeks ago, Michael Jackson, once the
darling of American entertainment, was virtually ruined by allegations of child molestation
which were never even proven true. Gary Hart, once a favorite to win the Democratic
nomination for President, was ruined because the media learned of his extramarital affair.
The list goes on. Heroes who escape the media’s muck-raking eye are the exception Tather
than the rule, for the same society that creates heroes either soon forgets them or does its
best to tear them back down.

Clearly, to our irreverent and fickle post-modern society, no one is sacred. Our
national consciousness, dominated by the entertainment world, allows us to care for our
heroes only as far as they can entertain us. Their well-being is irrelevant.

Weare quick to idolize Dan Jansen because he entertains us. Like watching a feel-good
movie, we vicariously experience glory through him. But we would enjoy turning on him
just as much if we could find out some nasty secret from his past and squeeze some more
entertainment value out of him.

Language at Davidson

Perhaps the most valuable asset we can carry away from college is the ability to
communicate, Indeed, one of the primary goals of a liberal arts school is to produce
articulate graduates, and we all struggle at one time or another in classes to improve our
fluency.

Why, then, do we leave the classroom and lose all desire to express ourselves
creatively? When we enter Davidson, we adopt almost immediately a new vocabulary that
stays with us for all of our four years here and probably lingers on after we graduate.

Everyone knows the words and expressions of which this not-so-scholarly college
vocabulary consists: sweet, random, dissin’, hatin’ it, lovin’ it, good stuff, that bites, and
hookin’, to name a few. It is amazing how much mileage we can get out of one word. “What
a random editorial.” “That party was pretty random.” “Dr. Holland can be so random in
class.” “Random!” “This is such a random paper.” While stretching the language is an
admirable endeavor, our favorite words lose meaning as we exhaust them in mundane
conversation.

Emerson writes, “The man is only half himself, the other half is his expression.” We
are what we say. Certainly our curious choice of diction is not singular to Davidson campus,
and even more certainly, the editors of this paper do not boast immunity to the contagious
college lingo. While picking up the language of a place is inevitable, it would be sweet if
we could diss this random vocabulary and, even if it bites at first, begin to talk some good
stuff.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the student
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian.
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. The
Davidsonian requests that letters to the editor be no longer than three hundred words an
reserves the right to edit all letters. In addition, no anonymous letters will be accepted.Ou.
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinion
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views o
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertisin
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College

Te (ds

ee TER of xhe

pes
“¥

WER °

LETTERS

Miller's experience not for criticism

To the editors,

Recently, Mrs. Joan
Miller has been given a hard
time about the article she
wrote three weeks ago. I do
not intend to go into detail
about how African-Ameri-
cans are mistreated, even in
1994,

Instead, I have included
an. excerpt from an article
(“The Continuing Signifi-
cance of Race: Anti-Black
Discrimination in Public
Places”), written by Dr. Joe
R. Feagin, who holds the
Graduate Research Profes-
sorship in sociology at the

University of Florida:

“In most work places,
middle-class status and its
organizational resources
provide some protection
against certain categories of
discrimination. This protec-
tion probably weakens as a
black person moves from
those work and school set-
tings where he or she is well-
known into public accom-
modations such as large
stores and city restaurants
where contacts are mainly
with white strangers. On
public streets blacks have the
greatest public exposure to

strangers and the least pro-
tection against overt dis-
criminatory behavior, in-
cluding violence.”

Mrs. Millerexperienced
an unfortunate ordeal, and
she has expressed her opin-
ion.

Now, let it go! Before
you pick up another pen,
keepin mind: You will never
know what it is like to be an
African-American woman
until you have walked in her
shoes and dealt with frustra-
tion on a daily basis.

Sincerely,

Beryl H. Thomas ‘94

The following piece by Am-
bassador Jack Perry ap-
peared in The Atlanta Con-
stitution February 9, 1994,
on the occasion of Dean
Rusk’s 85th birthday.

History has pages where
people appearas giants. The
middle years of this century
were such a time. Those
were the days of big men,
and Dean Rusk was one of
the biggest.

Blessed with a North
Georgia gift of self-depreci-
ating humor, Rusk would say
of himself while a stalwart
on the Davidson College
basketball team that he was
“the last of the midget cen-
ters.”

Worse things were said
of his stature and morals
when he was secretary of
state, from John F.
Kennedy’s first day as presi-
dent to Lyndon B. Johnson’s
last.

He held the office for
eight of the most momen-
tous years in our history—
through the Bay of Pigs, the
building of the Berlin Wall,
the Cuban missile crisis, the

Soviet invasion of Czecho-
slovakia, and Vietnam.

Vietnam will be raised
whenever Rusk’s name is
spoken. In his memoirs,
Rusk acknowledges mis-
takes in Vietnam. He also
makes his case that, within
the bounds of what we knew
and thought we knew at that
time, Vietnam was what we
had to do.

A generation of Ameri-
cans has trouble with that.
But those old enough to re-
member how we failed to
prevent Hitler from rising
and those sensitive to see
how we have failed to stop
Serbian aggression in the
Balkans may understand that
great power brings great re
sponsibility — and respon-
sibility of that size makes
for excruciating choices.

History must assess the
ultimate rights and wrongs
of Vietnam. But I hope no
one will try to judge facilely
those abominable times
when people with enormous
power had to decide whether
and how to use it. Keeping
one’s work, doing one’s

A salute to Dean Rusk

duty— those are not always
conspicuous elements of
statescraft. But some mo-
ments demand them.

In my own understand-
ing, Dean Rusk stands for

Dean Rusk

what is best in U.S. foreign
policy. That does not mean
he was always right, but it
does mean he tried to help
the nation live up to what he
saw as its responsibilities.
‘Dean Rusk has a great
deal to be proud of. As he
celebrates his 85th birthday
today, let us salute one of the
last of this century’s giants.

Correction

In last week's issue of
The Davidsonian, we incor-
rectly reported Professor
Sam Maloney's publications
in an article about the Dean
Rusk Conference.

We stand corrected that
Maloney critically reviewed

The Ethics of War and

Consience, a manuscript by
Paul Christopher, for
Prentice Hall in 1991.

Morality and Interna-
tional Politics refers to a
paper Maloney wrote and
read a couple of times in
1975 but did not submit for
publication.

From Just-War to Paci-
fism: Morality and War in
the Twentieth Century is a
manuscript by Gabriel
Palmer-Fernandez that
Maloney reviewed for
Prentice Hall last year and
has not, to Maloney's knowl-
edge, been published.
