6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington ;
Affirmative action shaping |

up as major issue in 1996

By ANDREA SHORT
Washington Week correspondent

. The growing debate over the
future of affirmative action gripped
Washington last week. Realizing
that this controversial issue is un-
likely to die down, President
Clinton called together a politi-
cally and racially diverse group
last Monday to discuss affirmative
action. With the Republicans vow-
ing to make preferential programs
acrucial issue for “96, Clinton must
attempt to appease the program’s
growing opposition while main-
taining a strong enough stand to
satisfy his own party.

Last week, civil rights leaders
and women’s groups made it clear
that they would not accept any
backtracking by Clinton on affir-
mative action. On Wednesday,
groups including the NAACP and
NOW marched outside the White
House, demanding that Clinton
fight to save affirmative action.

Influential Democratic leaders in-
cluding California Rep. Maxine
Waters have clearly stated thatthey
will not accept any concession by
Clinton. Waters, Clinton’s 1992
campaign co-chairwoman, an-
nounced, ‘‘No president is so im-
portant that we will belong to him
if he undermines us on this issue.”

Clinton’s nemesis in the affir-
mative action debate is Senator
Bob Dole, majority leader and top
Republican presidential contender.
Last week, Dole vowed toend pref-
erential programs, including affir-
mative action hiring policies, gov-
ernment set-asides to minority and
women-owned firms, and quotas
for government contractors. Dole
announced that he would sponsor
legislation that would end “nearly
30 years of Government-sanc-
tioned quotas, timetables, set-
asides, and other racial preferences,
the American people sense all too
clearly thatthe race-counting game
has gone too far.” To remedy

unfair hiring practices, Dole sug-
gests enforcing anti-discrimination
laws that Congress and state legis-
latures have enacted.
Complicating the issue, the
Glass Ceiling Commission last
week issued its report on the cur-
rent status of women and minori-
ties within the workplace. Itshows
that during the nearly three de-
cades of preferential hiring prac-
tices, government set-asides, and
quotas, women and minorities have
made few inroads into the upper-
level of American business. While
men comprise only 43% of the
workforce, they hold 95% of the
senior management positions. The
report found “‘that the glass ceiling

“exists because of the perception of

many white males that as a group
they are losing —losing the corpo-
rate game, losing control and los-
ing opportunity.”

Sources include: The 3-15-95
and 3-16-95 New York Times.

Dean Rusk

French presidential candidates
gear up for first round

By GRAHAM ERNST
Dean Rusk adjunct reporter

As France draws nearer to the
first round of its presidential elec-
tion on April 23, Prime Minister
Edouard Balladur is struggling to
regain the front running position in
a race that was once his to lose.

The latest polls show Balladur,
with only 18 percent of the vote,
trailing Socialist candidate Lionel
Jospin, who is running second with
21 percent, and fellow conserva-
tive and Mayor of Paris Jacques
Chirac, who leads with 28 percent.

Following the first round of
voting in five weeks, France’s po-
litical parties will negotiate alli-

- ances to determine who will drop -

out of the race and who will sup-
port whom for the final vote May
7.

The Socialist Party, which
now occupies the presidency with
the ailing Francois Mitterrand, has
gained ground with Jospin after
prospects for a strong candidate
appeared grim in December when
European Commission. President
and Socialist party member Jacques
Delors withdrew from the race.

Since the large conservative
victory in the 1993 Parliamentary
elections, Presidential candidates
have been hesitant to conclude that
the French public is affirming its
faith in conservative values more
than it is simply rejecting Socialist
programs.

With as many as 50 percent of
French voters still undecided, it is
not yet clear if the conservatives
have a lock with two of the top
three candidates. Furthermore,
restrictions on campaign advertis-
ing have forced candidates to get
their message out through other
means, such as direct mail, which
has decreased the publicity of this
election. As a result, the outcome
is still very difficult to predict.

Many questions have been
raised during this presidential race
as to whether the European Com-
munity can fully agree on com-
plete unity and details such as

majority voting. Other volatile «

issues include immigration and
trade issues. National Front candi-
date Le Pen has been outspoken
against many minority groups in
France and threatens to install many
restrictions on further immigration.

Although the prospective
front-runner in 1993 after serving
as Prime Minister during the 1980s,
Chirac’s recent surge into the lead
is ironic because Balladur was the
beneficiary of foreign and eco-
nomic successes resulting in ap-
proval ratings in the mid-60s at the
end of last summer.

However, a series of scandals
in Balladur’s cabinet, including a
recent event involving the illegal
sanctioning of secret listening de-
vices by Balladur, and subsequent
slow investigations have hurt his
popularity.

As the race comes down to the
wire, Balladur and Chirac will have
to reach an agreement on who will
run for the conservative Neo-
Gaullist party. Otherwise, their
division could leave their party
vulnerable at the ballot box for the
final round of voting.

Sources include 3-16-95 is-
sue of The New York Times; 12-17-
94, 3-13-93, 1-14-95, 9-3-94,
and12-3-94 issues of The Econo-
mist; 4-2-93 issue of New States-
man and Society; and 10-6-94 ar-
ticle in Facts on File.

MONDAY, MARCH 20, 1995

NOTES

Transvestite to crash St. Paddy’s Day parade

Savannah, Georgia’s Lady Chablis, who’s partial to sequins and
orange fringe and unlikely to don a Kelly-green tam, has vowed to
upstage the town’s March 17 St. Patrick’s Day parade because
parade organizers rejected a float that would have displayed him
riding on a gigantic replica of the book, Midnight in the Garden of
Good and Evil.

“T’m going to crash the damn St. Patrick’s Day parade,” one.of
the largest in the nation, said Chablis, a female impersonator and one
of myriad offbeat Savannahans, both straight and gay, portrayed in
the best seller. “So they may as well get ready.”

It’s hard to know if Chablis, whose club act draws laughs for its
faux outrage, is serious, But the floats rejection and the threat “to do
my own parade,” as Chablis put it, have rallied the city’s large gay
community. Some gay men and lesbians see the denial as a sign that
Savannah won't acknowledge their contributions to the city’s rich
cultural life.

__ Parade officials have said they rejected the float because there
was no room for it, and not for the religious and moral reasons that
have kept homosexual marchers out of St. Patrick’s Day processions -
in New York and Boston.

The float was to have been based on Midnight, a true story that
weaves the murder of a gay antiques dealer into the broader tableau
of Savannah high society. It would have displayed a 10-foot-high
book with Chablis sitting on a column rising from its open pages.

“T don’t know how Chablis will do it,” said Brittany Kennedy,
who runs the transvestite shows at Club One, “‘but if.there’s a way,
she’ ll find it.”

-taken from the Sunday, March 12, 1995 edition of the
Atlanta Journal

Diana Rigg gets Shakespeare award

The Shakespeare Theatre in Washington, D.C. will honor ac-

tress Diana Rigg — that’s Dame Diana Rigg in British parlance —
on April 22 with the William Shakespeare Award for Classical
Theatre. ’
From the frivolous fun of The Avengers to the dramatic revenge
of Medea, Miss Rigg’s roles have crossed the spectrum of acting and
earned her a Tony Award, among other honors. She is also the host
of Mystery! on PBS.

Previous winners are Christopher Walken, Morgan Freeman,
Mel Gibson, Kenneth Branagh, and Kevin Kline.

-taken from the Sunday, March 12, 1995 edition of the
Baltimore Sun.

IT'S THAT TIME AGAIN!
WE HAVE LOTS OF

NEW :
DANCE DRESSES!

106 South Main Street
Open Mon.-Sat , 10-6
Layaway Available.
896-8860

The New
Strawberry Shortcake!

Made with
delicious
soft-serve
ice cream

 geuiesanda an en2 SEAREy aes mean er aacmnaen |

Davidson Students and Faculty: i
I Buy one Shortcake and get the 2nd
for just $.99 with this coupon.

I fer eoodthruMacsl  ! sms
t ir. 912
CO oe

eponcor
Telethon, which benents local hoapstets tor eretdren

m0. connes (fap US. Pe 02. £0000. Com

