THE DAVIDSONIAN

BBACKPAGE INTERVIEW

MONDAY APRIL 3, 1995

ecently released
from prison, NOW

President Patricia Ireland discusses

the Republican Congress, lesbianism,
and the role of feminism today.

March 29, 1995

Most of the women at Davidson College
are hard working and ambitious, but most
would probably be reluctant to label them-
selves as feminists. Are today’s young women
less feminist? Could it be the Southern influ-
ence?

I don’t think that young women are less
inclined to call themselves feminists than they
were in my generation. But if you ask about the
Women’s Rights Agenda, then we have made
tremendous progress in the last 20 or 25 years,
so that nowadays about four out of five women
will say that the women’s right movement has

improved their lives and has had an impact that
has been positive. If you go right down the
agenda items of economic equality, political
access, freedom from violence, health issues,
women and men stand with us. Sometimes our
role in the feminist movement is to introduce
ideas that are new and that people are nervous
about. Change makes people uncomfortable,
even good change. But I think that it isn’t
surprising that only less than a third of women
will call themselves feminists because there is
a backlash, there is a price to be paid. And
especially for young women, whether you are
in the South or in any part of the country, if you
are at a stage in your life as a heterosexual
woman looking to establish a lifelong relation-
ship with a man, that’s a very frightening
prospect that you are going to make yourself,
believing in equality, that you won't be able to
have a social life at the same time. How would
you like to spend the rest of: your life with a
man who didn’ trespect and treat
you equally? It’s areal dilemma.

Whattactics does NOWuse
to make an impact on such a
conservative Congress? Is it
possible to break them down
even alittle? -

NOW traditionally has used
a variety of tactics, from very
traditional tactics of raising
money and supporting candidates from elec-
toral work to lobbying, you know, from put-
ting on the suits and sensible pumps and going
up on the hill and lobbying, to some very
nontraditional tactics of demonstrations and
protests and pickets. In all kinds of ways we
have to draw attention to the issues, The most
important way that we impact this Congress or
any Congress is by organizing, mobilizing the
majority of people who do believe in equality.

Last night someone mentioned the exist-
ing debates within the feminist movement.
Some say that the homosexuality of many
feminists turns many women away. Do you
think that some women are put off by the
extremism?

I think that there is a broad spectrum of
women and men who identify themselves as
feminists and who have a wide variety of
tactics and strategies; sometimes we joke that
the more militant feminists kick the door open
so the more moderate can walk through. We
each have a role. But I think in particular
around the issue of lesbianism and the move-
mentand lesbianismas an issue, thatitisa very
powerful weapon that is used against our move-
ment. It does have an impact on women who
are afraid, legitimately afraid, that if they
speak up for their rights, for instance in the
work site, or even more in the military, if they
bring charges of sexual harassment then they

‘are very likely to then face the accusation that
they are lesbians. And in a work site, or

especially in the military, if you are identified
as a lesbian, correctly or incorrectly, you can
lose your job, your credit, your housing, the
custody of your own children- it’s a very real
fear. It's not paranoia, it’s a healthy respect for
reality.
A few weeks ago an editorial was written
to our paper in response to Mamet’s play
Oleanna commenting that feminists ''make
life terrible for those of us who don't believe
that every guy is a perverted rapist."" What
would yourresponse be to this? Is this woman
wrong in wanting to be treated in an old
fashioned way? How do we deal with that?
Well, in the polling that I have seen when
I mentioned that 80% of the women identified
the women’s movement as having improved
their lives, and 30% identified themselves as
feminists, it’s only about 8% that identified
themselves as antifeminists. I think that is
significant. There are women who are con-
cerned that somehow equality is not good for
us. But I think that the vast majority of us
recognize that that’s not true. It does not mean
that you have to change aspects of life that are
part of civilized behavior, part of courtship, or
any of the other ways that we want to be treated
withrespect. But it does mean that those social
constructs that we call chivalry cannot be used
to put us on a pedestal that ends up being a
prison, that ends up saying women are so
delicate that we have to protect you, and we
have to protect you out of the higher paying
jobs. So I would certainly never chastise
someone who opened the door for me or who
in any way expressed deferential behavior for
my age and my gender, but I do want to be

want to encourage people in very individual ways

with their families, with their friends, within their

PATRICIA IRELAND

Patty I.

—
—_—

Brandon Clarke

Patricia Ireland has been the presi-
dent of the National Organization of
Women (NOW) since 1991. NOW has
been lauded as the most successful femi-
nist organization in the United States, and
Ireland played a fundamental role in mak-

own hearts to find the courage to begin.

treated equally.

In 1992 you said that “women are
stretched within an inch of their lives, just
trying to keep their heads above water.” Do

you see that women will ever be truly consid-

ered equal as generations pass? Even with
the current Congress, do you see a definite
progression as time goes on?

Oh, I think that there has been tremen-
dous progress, and I think it is important to
celebrate our successes and our victories be-
cause otherwise we are not going to be able to
keep the movement going. People are not into
beating their heads against a wall, and unless
they can make a difference then why would
they get involved? Why would they take their
precious time and energy that is so limited and
put it toward the political movement for equal-
ity? It would be an exercise in futility. Even
the most conservative politician now believes
in equal pay for equal work, that wasn’t true
when I was a young woman. Even some of the
very conservative women in Congress will
stand up and fight for family and medical
leave, orto end violence against women, or for
women’s health issues, whereas 20 years ago
we wouldn’t have even been at the tables to
make the arguments, much less making them.
I am quite confident that we are making
progress.

Why do you think that feminism is such
a bad word to so many people?

ing 1992 the “Year of the Woman” in
Congress.

_ arrived at Davidson she was imprisoned

A former airline stewardess and law-
yer, Ireland often takes to the streets pro-
testing such issues as welfare cuts, anti-
abortion movements, and gay and lesbian
discrimination. Just five days before she

for hours after speaking out
against the Republican’s tax
cut agenda, which aims wel-
fare cuts towards women and
children.

Ireland does not only
focus on issues that affect the
United States. She has or-
chestrated NOW’s “Global
Feminist Program,” which has
worked with oppressed women in Africa,
Asia. and the Middle East.

I think there is a benefit to someone in
keeping us from being active, keeping us from
recruiting new activists. I think that if I tell you
that women are still making about 70 cents on
the dollar ... somebody is still pocketing that
30 cents. There is literally a profit to be made
from discrimination, and there is, for some
men, areal threat to compete with women and
people of color on an equal playing field. For
about 200 years there has been a real mo-
nopoly on power and that is not going to be

‘ given up without a struggle. I remember so

well Frederick Douglass’ wonderful quote,
”Power concedes nothing without a struggle;
it never has and it never will.” I like the
analogy he used there that those who want
progress without struggle are asking for the
ocean without its mighty roar. Well, when
there is a mighty roar there is a certain fear
created by some folks who don’t want to step
forward and stand up against that and say, “no
I mean it. I really think that we have to stand
firmly. We are not going back; we have to
move forward." But that takes a great deal of
courage. I am not unmindful, and that’s why
when I talk like I did last night, I want to
encourage people in very individual ways with

their families, with their friends, within their
own hearts to find the courage to begin. And
to know that even just that small discussion
may make a difference, it helps move public
opinion. We really have shifted our culture in
dramatic ways. It is very exciting to me.

So what can a college woman do?

Well I think that it depends on what you
face at your school, on your campus. In some
communities I have been to the administration
will spend $50,000 to light the football sta-
dium but pay $25,000 to light the walkway
from the women’s dorm to the library; in some
communities that issue might affect the fac-
ulty because there are not tenured women who
are in positions to be role models and mentors.

Depending on a given community there
might be a different set of issues. I think the
most important thing that any of us can do,
especially at the beginning of an adult life as a
college student, is to make that commitment
that wherever you go, whatever context you
are in, you are going to speak up, you are going
to feel confident about asserting your rights
and you are going to insist on being treated
with respect. And that’s not as easy as it
sounds.

BY MARY CLARE JALONICK
