THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 7

The DWavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Opinions Editor Copy Editors
MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT DAVID SANTSCHI
ROBERT RAMSAY TERESA WHITE
Arts & Living Editors
Associate Editors JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager
WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
RUSS TARVER
Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Photography Editor
Assistant News Editor ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

MATTHEW EIRICH CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Untapped resources |

We see them every day at the front of the classroom, elusive pillars of knowledge
that in some ways we respect maybe even more than our own parents. But are we really
listening to them? Should we? Maybe Dr. Lewis knows about more than just
Elizabethan drama.. Maybe Dr. Williamson specializes in more than just genetics.
Maybe a chat with Dr. Epes would extend beyond the scope of the history of world
knowledge. The question is, do students really want to listen? Does anyone really take
the time to find out?

Well, we should.

And so should they.

How many professors know that in addition to being Vice President of the SGA,
sophomore Warren Buford also plays rugby and lifeguards? In addition to being Phi
Beta Kappa and an honors candidate in English, senior Phoebe Dean repelled from
Chambers as “Mrs. Claus” at the campus Christmas party last year; how many faculty
members were there? How many even know that we have a campus Christmas party?

Students and faculty at Davidson seem to know each other as just that: students and
faculty. Weare all individuals whose share acommon experience — Davidson. We are

all here because we proved that we can cut it academically. Why don’t we take. .

advantage of the first-rate minds and thoughtful opinions that the researchers at U.S.
News and World Report consider to be in the top ten of all liberal arts colleges in the
country? : :

And we don’t just mean taking advantage of the speed at which Dr. Molinek can
solve acomplex system of matrices. We mean taking advantage of them as individuals,
as experienced adults who have lived through everything that we have, and then some.

_ Davidson students tend to sharply separate their academic and social worlds. This

‘ schism does not allow us to take advantage of everything that we are offered for our

tuition. We are paying these professors to teach us. And they know a lot more than just
what they teach from 9 to 5, Monday through Friday. :

Maybe the faculty doesn’t understand why we are here, or what things are like for
college-age students of 1995. We worry about AIDS, date rape, sexism, and racism.
When the average faculty member attended college, life was a lot different. So, can we
really listen to them when they express their views on our social lives? Are they out of
touch? —

Perhaps. Butnotas muchas we might like to think. So, maybe we shouldn’t dismiss
their views so quickly.

Don’t get defensive. They may not have a totally clear perception of Davidson’s

_ social life, but instead of writing them off as overly intellectual and generally over the
hill, we should pause for just one microsecond and listen to what they have to say.

For example, if the faculty wanted Patterson Court abolished, then they would be
disregarding the interests of a majority of the student body. Probably, most of them do
not want to see it eliminated — only improved.

Unfortunately, Davidson’s climate does not provide an easy way to socialize away
from the Court. Let’s face it — Main Street offers little more than gnomes. So, what
do we do? Where do we go to interact as students and faculty — as people?

We need to relate more as individuals who interact constantly. Having professors
spend weekend nights on residence halls is a big step in the right direction. However,
these situations are often awkward because students and faculty don’t have any
experience dealing with each other socially.

And the only way to eliminate this awkwardness is to interact more as individuals.
Some professors already make commendable efforts to realize this goal, as do some
students. Although they stand out, they comprise a minority.

We challenge others to join them.

STAY Caum
WE'VE worked
SOME +HiINg out
With “the Gar"

WEARER

(%,

A=

THE DAVIDSON CAMPUS
uWoT ZONE" WHEN) IN A.GO
EXPERIMENT Gon AwRy,
SHIPMENT OF BERMVPA SHO

WITH A PARTICULARLY DEADLY TRoficALVIRy S.

pecomes A
VERNMENT.

Ty. CREW'S SPRING
RTS IS INFECTED

LETTERS

Let’s clear some things up again

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Tdlike to start by thank-
ing Corey Bean for replying
to my article and giving the
other side of the debate. I
am sorry, though, that Bean
did notaddress my two main

be taught as fact, and there
are no missing links. I do
not question that evolution

is the best theory science

can come up with; what I do

question is that evolution is

taught as fact by our text-

books as well as by many

science teachers. I am not

claiming that Davidson’s '
professors teach the theory

as fact. On the contrary, I

have heard that many tell

their class they disagree with

the book. In his attempt to

address my question of miss-

ing links by saying that there

are whales that seem to have

vestiges of hind feet, Bean

misses the whole point of

my argument and simply

reiteratesseveral things I said

in my second article. So

again, I am going to clear

some things up.

Bean’s first argument
responds to my proposal that
evolution goes against the
Second Law of Thermody-
namics, because according
to evolution, less complex
organisms evolved into more
complex ones. Obviously,
the Second Law of Thermo-
dynamics does not mean that
everything must always be-
come less ordered. To use a
similar comparison, the law
of gravity states, inlayman’s
terms, that a brick will fall to
the earth if given the chance.
Or it will at least remain on
top of another brick and not
float away. Someone could,
however, seemingly defy
this law by throwing that
brick up into the air. In the
same way, organisms which

points: evolution should not.

have a plan and code (DNA)
which forces them to become
more complex, appearas “‘is-
lands of order in a sea of
entropy.” But the organ-
isms are following a plan,
just like blueprints, and are

not left to themselves. They
do not randomly get more

complex. However, there is
no blueprint for all life. Evo-
lution requires that life, when
left to itself, randomly and
by chance become more
complex. That is where evo-

lution conflicts with thermo-

dynamics.

Bean next addresses the
question of evolution defy-
ing the Law of Biogenesis.
What bothers me about his
argumentis its contradiction
to Bean’s two requirements
for a “good [scientific]

_ theory” (a: itmust accurately

describe many observations
with very few arbitrary ele-
ments, and b: make definite
predictions about future re-
sults). The Theory of Evo-
lution contradicts both of
these requirements of a
“good theory.” Its descrip-
tion of “observations” which
uses a great deal of arbitrary
and theorized “proof” totally
contradicts the Law of Bio-
genesis which is grounded
in tangible and reproducible
observations. Secondly, its
predictions about the future,
that life can be generated
from non-life, contradict that
“life and only life, generate
life,” which Bean states as a
current fact. Also, evolution
cannot be duplicated in a lab
or proven mathematically,
which I understand are gen-
erally required in science.
So according to the criteria
Bean gives, evolution is not
a “good theory.”

To answer my question
about missing links, Bean
gives one example of a whale

which has body parts which
resemble limbs. One must
consider that many organs
which appear to be vestiges
of old parts no longer needed,
like the human coccyx which
is cited as an example that
ways used in some way for
other purposes. The coccyx,
for example, is essential in .
supporting abdominal and
spinal muscles. But even if
Bean’s whales did go from
land to water, that does not
address my point. I have
never claimed that species
cannot adapt, but that there
are no links, between spe-
cies. Bean’s example is no
different from pointing to all
the different kinds of dogs. I
am not disputing that there
are different kinds of dogs
which came from an origi-
nal source, but where is the
proof linking dogs to any
other animal?

Finally on mutations,
Bean very confidently said
that I was mistaken in stat-
ing that there had not been
any evidence of successful
mutations. He says that there
was one, billions of years
ago, when plants which were
hurt by oxygen mutated into
plants which used it. I would
be very interested in seeing
his proof of these mutations.
What Bean really meant was
that the proof comes from
scientific theory, using evo-
lution as the basis, that oxy-
gen-breathing plants
evolved from ones which
were hurt by it. Any rational
person will see the obvious
problem in using the theory
which is in question as the
basis for providing evidence
which is being used to sup-
port that theory.

Sincerely,
Eric Sapp ’98
