ae _THE DAVIDSONIAN

Che 3 Bavidsonian

“ALENBA mi ‘UBL ORTA LIBERTAS |

Bees

Associate me Business Manager
V T A < ry
eee eee
Be ee cgi SRS
MARY CLARE HALONICK cA (oe
Astisiant News feat Pere a lation Mea
Ww, te r
ar ati t gt if Circu lation Be

CRAIG MU

Founded in 1914
“The South's Foremost College Weekly”

4h,

Hy aE as : ,
es ave
OLB R

MONDAY, MAY i, 1998 7

A big ball of change

The past few days, graduates from the yeats of yore have returned to theii foriner
haiihting iH ouNdS for socializing aid the ever-depressiig Hostalgia trip. How awful
was it for Bill, class of ‘79, to walk past Sehtellé, atid see sitiokers Hatipitig out off the
betiches shootitig the bull, just as he had done? Was Jim; class of ‘62, iniffed by the
presence of women in Chambers, whiere he atid his buddies Had pone to class? Did Bail,
class of ‘44, | fal is eyes when he saw the FLAG fiyer iti the Uiion?

Change brings discontent: No one would disdaiii the levels that Davidsoii’s
athletic proprai is reaching; yet, surely | leré are those who re ctcht the days when
that pee #6 OF the college's hefty bill welt to Hore leatiied
Ot yout io zt at a pein with the increased ij ahtlig yh Cainpus, iit what was
sactlhiced a ae weaible? These days; 0 a i ne eptt oath

ew

are COMMON; seiléve tHis des HOt collie avis
na iaHou: a Olt i8 questioned; even; Wheli ‘tibh tienen oF ay in
fail fae heats

i ingurahice i OH OH

Chalige Buls 8 i i afi. ‘ie Hite

HEH Couitt 18 Hot desitab Mags sug Beato iene fehdinp its
a Thi or ny Teenie ee pealdet

LETTERS

pursuits, i doiibt you

Please, feel oui pain

To the SantoH,

Cortiae Connor has
opetied oli eyes to the ram-
pant intolerance presetitly
riding toughshod over the
Davidson caiipis. The
crosses outside of Chaitibers

These iitolerait ChHstidiis
Have & whole daititi chiitch.
Ad if tHe CHisddes Wete Hot
ad exo rei HOw iad rin
bee tly fetllhided
ac tH he

ch et
aia wei

He
ae tie a

dite jlist the tip of the iceberg.

As if that is not enough,
the school persists on flyitg
the Ainetican flag despite
the High percetitdge of South-
er nationalists and foreign
students. And what about
the libraty? That seets par-
tictilatly itsetsitive to
ie Of the Davidson fali-

Battie tHe disease of

ili iy. A ily Hw

bar Mull ds?
' slg ie Fi ii fot di-
vetsity at Davidod, Hot the
SUBJUBAHOH OF WOHIEH 18 tHe

i Of seivits—dOWwH With

: ti at a Se:

Blorify jingoistic, American,
Judeo-Christian, patriarchal,
ittellectiial values! Unless
these syitibols are eradicated
from the Davidson campus
atid replaced by multy-culty
ideals, we will formally bring
Sulit apaitist the college on tis
aiid all out hyper-sensitive
pinko-Communist com-
rades,

Will sotnebody please
feel out pai?

Silicetely,

Pathick C. Brown ‘96

oe Diininich

‘a Newitiai ‘93
bets ‘95

Ustees,
oe ees =e i Scitahunauee | EC didi't eross | ‘Hatnbe ts

eae Wis an event 8 feng Tehtalives OF all seven
a ileus Se sOVEHHHEHt GBH a A il His 8 Het ii ‘gal bai i Rial ih cf fal yaad blip eset 6
hale an td He allellatlon i a fehl tls Het | cil wis ts tive shed iH ie  eHaHIBH: the & iB euHNBUA. We tecbphive thal
wl er a 8 hs Hit ad 408 Sa 8; HOw pie ot te & EIBRNES hie tHe &veHE suite tHe with tis colttHuinity, thete
that 7 a a dite : ee Siar rete Hi: le Cini diith Ne IHalde dll Be dlsaipheetients about
ua a = a ae iiajot Davide : HanRIallY: Ht sth i‘ OpeH Fok HOW HOt WAHHAR the abbots Gt ie:
nee oa el KEW pita ia iae hat ey =a alates ' Ce eee) aoe i rg Mi tri 8
0 Ww oO Les W é é e sonian will c
sa USREES 8 sl s SIS hd HAS: Buane alipea 18 WARIGE: satel nga is eae ; bale sie Beha
bBpHate 8% aad it . a ivi chults ofthe BC, about
eBile all this; we RHOW aa chaABE 18 ig Hell. ik ai ig aid expidited te Gi i et a2 Mm itive isi ihe AbHioHs Hid Oplitiohs of
coheEpt, sl is Hue: oe 88; the St wet di & &bfectivetess OF OnE did Hot Feed this ‘aie al je COHIHOKS, the BC without Hsstiniing the
get ste fei it with ais Hat did aa Anpinter! y be Belist — rit day | setied te pitioHs OF the Ee alg bs provi aiitike CHHsHal Conitniinity
beeen lititwi alas é kiowledge aiid éxpetetice at Chistiail co tihity altetiativeforthose wHodid — is unifort.
nis how to hae the Hext a a ad this was Hot ri ved. dot waiit te paHticipate. Siticetely,

So; aliiititi, a oe ae ive it Heong whackitig to see sau Watt the Badd THe BC tepteseits Matt Rich, ‘97
rl ibyitie ti sat a ae f id ‘ lis Fae 7 rata eect | tee ite Diy splay ii the Eten deta Belinea Cotincil
0} with i88ués yo fot Have the 08 (¥ wéhavé [Rei UHH iiHet— Hai Coil ie
ery for ourselves tH right atid wroiig; reet Lerai i8 a8 clear B iy al

_ a8 tip aiid down.
Will wristbands riiti the ea wil
the positions they were itieatit to upliA? W orinS prove disastrous?
Who kiiows? Biit we could find olit ea bit tHe kiiow. lee & we pail, iinprove
Ourselves _ our college évéil itiore, Uiiderel assitiel, fight for vi bu Bélléve itt;

athletics

Davidson graduate as “a
well-rouiided individual.”
The studetit-athilete, like the

“Su Sport Division I

faculty, students, and alumnl
of Davidson, is that we ititist
coltlHlle Division f athletics

ui nafs cettali fequlnebiehis deitieati

5
{WOMANS IB BRB
brave coicert tegarding Di-

doit séttie for what Ant ve ae Sétilois, take yout & Hi itt with you. A fet pradiiation, vision fathlétios at Davidson at all costs. So iat Of out —stdeit-itilisician, etc. epito-

reinietiber that bavi son Ny ee tion ia i joHtiodd, abies aration forthe tHals | Coliege. This year, I thiet very divetse stiidents fid — tiilzes the well-rolindedness

aiid Stresses aiid jo He sa Bajoy: ik Bit dbi’t Be Satistied a the satisfactory. | Sit a Hollaid after a Davidsoh’s elite statis ih we yeuti fot hete.

Aith high, 8 hed the old, eat cake . AiiBer OF chalges were Divisioii I att Atlee Thete has beet mention
The ii s ellehe a is uh Hula tes & ditt fe ctiees fies a brea is é to the athletic depart. deiits that © se would of iHOvilig to Division Til,
le. We ul té time Ba et ae ae ihe, haitely, HO tralilers i 86 soitiew sis Sli. The ery if the athletic de-
ee sHOeHHi ithe Davi Sourial showed, we wi ety cs a ae patties, tte i coOthipetitive ath.  pattitielt contitities to expe-

oe Tes Tuk eau se Sw thal iFCHAABE 18 Both tO Be Ht et ei a the sttiall-achool Heli Hepitive feedback
ie will 8H att ste HOH a ie ee yi dvi ts i ste ig dlitiost exclii- co Pie:
he ms AG. Ye, we aad {Agree with ll igidii req deghsogit een i sive ae i. Hit it this happen.
ve te Ota a “a . or" altsh esi parties: ut yes; we Bye tl lal ie i ieBEBISHI: Aig te Of but Esa H Haas ae sul era
é é 8
cui ail nee Sei : take gh pate fe ie td ot
ine ye honia he publ shed ise Bh Mande mart the tHe Sti deiits oe 5: nM ; iene oaganien
Q SQ) Hi ‘ iii i rt i bes H . ¢
BO. saa ae nee ayy 897 Oi tee 8 bi it He prekneen Ht oo
pl he itor ot fH Gi tii sik HIGH 3 my a ie a itis the ite tiie ais it ity
Erol dara: ah See ees See =<
ie ie an retest. Copytiphit 18 He se i erty Wie bead HUB) KARE 18 the sno iter “98

