THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995 7

Che Mabldgsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

Assisant Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS TERESA WHITE KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
Sports Editor Operations Manager
- Associate Editors MATT PITZER JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER . Photography Editor Advertising Managers

ROB KOSICKI MEREDITH BENKE

Assistant News Editor ANDY BOSWELL

JOANNA JOHNSON Assisant Photography Editor

BRANDON CLARKE Circulation Manager
Opinions Editor ‘ : CHLOE BROOKE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor
LAUREN FREEMAN Editorial Cartoonist
Arts & Living Editor CHRIS MOORE
JOHN COPENHAVER
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

NoW SERVED AT THE Commons

TE IW

eee

If I had a hammer

I had a lot of good intentions

Sit around for fifty years and then collect a pension,
Started seeing the road to hell and just where it starts.
But my life is more than a vision

The sweetest part is acting after making a decision

I started seeing the whole as a sum of its parts.

My life is part of the global life

I’ve found myself becoming more immobile

When I'd think a little girl in the world can’t do anything.
A distant notion my community

A street person my responsibility

If I have a care in the world I have a gift to bring.

Gotta get out of bed get a hammer and a nail
Learn how to use my hands, not just my head
I think myself into jail
Now I know a refuge never grows
From a chin in a hand in a thoughtful pose
Gotta tend the earth if you want a rose.
-Emily Saliers of the:Indigo Girls

Community, humanity, globality, responsibility — it’s time to get a hammer and a nail
and join Habitat for Humanity in their commitment to service. Just when you think you
can’t do anything for change; just when you resign yourself to the isolated, alienated life
‘of humankind in a postmodern, industrial world; just when you succumb to the immobile
pace of everyday life; just when you sit back and watch television in a mindless pose; just
when you think the lessons learned at Davidson couldn’t possibly benefit you let alone
anyone else, you find a group like Habitat for Humanity that dedicates itself to working for
others.

Campus groups like Habitat, Project Life, Reach Out, Love of Learning, Environmen-
tal Action, Big Sister, Big Brother all share common goals: to serve the community and to
reach out to those in need. Working toward an idealistic reality, these groups have worked
to set standards for us now and in the future.

Habitat for Humanity has gone to such lengths to remind everyone daily of these
standards. Their vigorous crusade is not only to build the Davidson Habitat for Humanity
House but to include many Davidsonians in rallies, in the Hammerhead Club, and in the
constructing of such a house.

But what Habitat for Humanity is really constructing isn’t simply a house or a club; it’s
an ideology, a code, a way of living and thinking. And perhaps the construction of a
commitment to service in a microcosm of an intellectually and self-consumed faculty and
studentry is their toughest goal, and will be their most valued accomplishment. Their work
to get the masses involved isn’t just to build a foundation for a house, but a strong ideological
foundation on which we all can build in every endeavor of our lives.

And perhaps creating a highly visible Hammerhead Club has planted the seed in all of
our minds to want to join the crusade. Many of us want to be in the know, doing and thinking
what’s politically and socially acceptable; on some level, we all want to be in the
Hammerhead Club. Maybe the reasons for wanting to be a part of the Hammerhead Club
aren’t always the right ones, but even on the most superficial level, a person who contributes
to the cause is in some way affected.

Service, foundations, contributions, support, commitment, dedication, hammers, and
nails really mean something. We’ re not just looking to feel good about ourselves but to do
good for other people. We’re looking to set the high standards of service and commitment
to the community, to build that strong foundation now to benefit others in the future.
Support the Habitat for Humanity House — not only by contributing money, but by
communicating the ideas and using your hands with ahammer and a nail. Do it for yourself,
do it for Davidson, do it for your community, do it for others.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS:

Dewey cries

foul

To the editors,

I would like to thank
The Davidsonian for taking
time to print a letter that I
sent to the editors several
weeks ago. I appreciate the
effort the paper makes to
convey the different opin-
ions of the student body. I
must say, however, that I
read my letter with. mixed
emotions.

My letter was repro-
duced on the letters page of
the Opinions section in the
November 13th issue and
then continued on a later

_} page under the heading “Re-.
ally Pissed.” The topic that’

my letter dealt with was the
overuse of unprofessional
language in the school pa-
per. Clearly the editors do
not share my views, but that
is not the issue. I cannot
help but be offended when

the paper editorializes an edi-

torial letter. If it had not
been my letter, the injustice
would still be the same. The
paper clearly meant to insult
the message and undermine
its meaning.

I certainly did not ex-
pect everyone to agree with
my opinion in the letter, but
I think that as an opinion it
should have been respected
as such. Instead, some edi-
tors felt obligated: to flout
this attack on their methods,

and so attempted to make a
joke of it. Well, I thought it

was a good joke but in poor
taste.

After the issue came out

I received several messages

on my voice mail, some sup-

porting my view while oth-

ers adamantly opposing it.

The paper obviously felt that

the issue needed attention

whenever they responded to
it in such an immature way.

Inthe most recent issue, Miss
Mary Wampler submitted an
article dealing with student
expression andthe viewpoint

sue, then, isa viable one, and
I do not understand how the
paper can ignore it while stu-
dents evidently feel strongly
about it.

Concerning my letter, I
fear that some people may
have derived the wrong
meaning. I do not advocate
the censoring of opinions,
nor do I feel that anyone
should conform their
thoughts to what others
would have them think.
Rather, I hold the opinion
that when expressing one’s
thoughts in a ‘school news-
paper, one should bear in
mind the audience. After
all, how can a message. do
any good if the initial effect
of the phraseology repulses
the readers? Todefend one’s

view, one has to convince
others that his or her view-
point is sensible. Resorting
to cheap four letter words
whose meanings do not hold
up in an argument is not a
sensible defense. My letter
addressed such tactics as
they are practiced in The
Davidsonian.

In her article, Miss
Wampler expressed how
writers in the Opinions sec-
tion are subject to scrutiny
by the readers. Indeed they
are, and it is because of this
scrutiny that they should at-

_Lheld in my, letter... The. is-......temptto.present- their views...

in a mature way. An effec-
tive learning environment
must provide for student
expression, but it shouldalso
teach how to express. Raw

expression is seldom appre-

ciated and often misunder-

stood. Therefore, when try-

ing to express one’s opin-

ions, one must consider how

others will take that expres-

sion, Without this consider-

ation, an article disregards

the integrity of the reader. In

doing this, the intended mes-

sage becomes as ineffective

as clanging metal and as

empty as asushi bar during a
salmonella epidemic.

Sincerely,
Dewey N. Ervin, Jr. ‘99

Habitat explains goals

To the editors,

Ihave heard a great deal
of misinformation, so I just
wanted _toclarify three points
about the Wildcat Habitat
project. First of all, we are
not trying to raise $40,000.
This is the average cost of a
Habitat house. It does not
include the in-kind donations
that we will be receiving.
The actual amount that we
are estimating is $25,000-
$30,000. Second, we were
never trying to raise all of
the money by December 1.
As of today, we are at

$16,500. We will be doing
fundraising until we reach:

our needed amount. The
most important thing every-
one on this campus needs to
know is that $20 is just a
number and not a require-
ment ora limit. It is compa-
rable to the numbers that
Sally Struthers uses to give
you an idea of the total
amount needed: “if every-
one on this campus gave just
$20, we would be able to
reach our goal.” :
Not only is this project
allowing us to give to our
community, but it is also
pulling together this college
community like nothing else
has in a very long time. I

pray that this will continue
to bring together our cam-
pus until the house is built in
May.

On behalf of everyone
on the Habitat House Com-
mittee, I wanted to thank the
many people who have al-
ready been involved in this
campus-wide project. My
hope is that the excitement
for the project will build in
these last weeks before
Christmas break. We look
forward to seeing you all at
the house next semester.

Sincerely,
Smita Donthamsetty ‘96
