THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995 7

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
Assistant Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager
Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
: MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor
: ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
Assistant News Editor CHLOE BROOKE
JOANNA JOHNSON Assistant Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT. Copy Editor
_LAUREN FREEMAN
Founded in 1914

“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

A.G.

Lve N DEAN SHAN DLEY
VAMF ED
Fale

aU EAT Ve
FASHION Skow

LETTERS

‘Tis the season
to be jolly ...

Remember back in sixth grade- when the period between Thanksgiving and
Christmas was-such a relaxing time of excitment and anticipation of the joyous
holiday season? It seems difficult to imagine now. There must have been something
to worry about ... Now, it seems like there is always some nagging fear that there
won’t be an empty carrel in the library or there won’t be enough time to finish that
last paper.

As we head back into the swing of things after stuffing ourselves with stuffing
(and turkey for those non-vegetarians), it is important to remember that life does not

i end after Thtinksgiving and then magically restart after exams: Recall that this time watethy

during your senior year in high school, you were writing four essays trying to
convince the Davidson admissions office that assimilating information and being a
part of an academic experience was what you most wanted to do for the next four
years.
Crunch time or not, here you are. Enjoy it, but don’t forget yourself.
Set aside time to exercise in Baker. Call a friend you haven’t spoken to for a
while. Go for a walk. Stare out a window. Think about what the trees will look like
_with no leaves. Breathe deeply. You are and will be OK (and, in some cases, ODK).
- You will survive exams. You might even enjoy them. The workload at Davidson
is a collective experience that even that annoying person on your hall goes through.
Smile when you don’t feel like it ... and then maybe you will. Get started now —
it will be over before you know it (all).

Thanks from Project Life

To the editors,

We'd like to express our
deepest gratitude to
Davidson students, faculty,
staff, community members,
and friends. On November
15 you showed great com-
passion for a very important
cause, the sixth annual bone
marrow drive. Over three
hundred people volunteered
to be registered into the na-

tional marrow donor pro-
gram. It was unbelievably
moving to witness so much
support and empathy in one
room. Often, we are ac-
cused of being apathetic, but
on November 15 the
Davidson community
showed nothing but selfless-
ness. Davidson should be
proud of being one of the
largest college drives in the

nation. Because of
Davidson’s efforts, over
2,000 people are a part of the
national registry. One day,
some of you will have the
opportunity to give the gift
of life. Thank you again for
supporting this special cause:

Sincerely,
The Project Life
Committee —

Luv

me some Jefe.

Many thanks for your
continual publication of Jeff
Kent’s amusing and well-
written articles in the Opin-
ions section.

As a junior abroad this
semester, I often feel quite
distant from life at Davidson,

To the editors, ==

interesting moments I’m
missing.

Hiscreative subject ma-
terial coupled with his well-
cultivated sense of humor
provide me with a comfort-
ing connection to Davidson.

“put TET eres” jection aa
ways seems to capture the

Ff on a 1 job well
done.

Sincerely,
Jen Rawlings ‘97
Tours, France

Want a subscription to
The Davidsonian for
spring semester?

The Davin is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

: ONLY $16.50!
P.O. Box 219; Davidson, NC 28036
Send a semester's worth of college
newspapers to your parents — what
a nice Christmas gift!

The Pavidsonian

is looking to re-staff for next

semester. We need news and
sports editors and welcome any
new writers for News, Opinions,
Arts & Living, and Sports. Give
Mandy, Bobby, William, or Russ
a call at -2148.

