6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington : :
Debt limits and speed limits

By Davin SaNTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Republican leaders and the
Clinton Administration began ne-
gotiating Friday on a stopgap
spending bill to keep the govern-
ment operating after October 1,
when the new fiscal year will be-
gin without a budget.

The budget may be headed for
a “train wreck” this fall because of

differences between Republicans.

and President Clinton over spend-
ing cuts and controversial social
issues inserted into spending bills.
None of the 13 appropriations bills
required to keep the government
operating has passed Congress.

A temporary measure, or con-
tinuing resolution, must be passed
by September 30 to raise the debt
ceiling to meet expenses and pro-
vide for budget outlays. If this bill
is not approved, the government
would shut down until a final bud-
get is worked out. Few experts
predict a lengthy government shut-
down because of the disruption it
would cause the nation.

Negotiators are working on a
bill that would fund the govern-
ment six weeks into the 1996 fiscal
year, which begins on October 1.
There is disagreement over the
funding formulas for this stopgap
bill, which will affect the 13 major
bills when they are negotiated later.
Republicans proposed a plan that
would prevent layoffs but cut the
president's priorities deeply. Chief
of Staff Leon Panetta promptly

rejected it, saying, “We’re not go-
ing to be blackmailed.” The White
House seeks an across-the-board
cut at one percent below current
funding levels for all budget items.

If the government is forced to
shut down temporarily, the public
by a margin of 48% to 21% would
place the blame on Republicans,.
not President Clinton. 77% of
Americans view the budget
struggle as partisan politics.

In an alarming development,
Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich (R-GA) warned on Thurs-
day that he would cause the gov-
ernment to default on its debt if
Clinton did not agree to a Republi-
can plan to eliminate the deficit in
seven years. “I don’t care. . . if we
have no bonds for 60 days,”
Gingrich said. Todo this, he would
prevent the House from voting on
the continuing resolution, which is
critical for the government to make
regular payments and borrow
money to stay operating.

The US government has never
defaulted on its debt. This could
disrupt financial markets, under-
mine confidence, and raise interest
rates. Just a one point rise in inter-
est rates would increase the deficit
by $4.9 billion. The security of the
American financial system rests
squarely on the ability of the gov-
ernment to repay its loans.

President Clinton was unsure
how seriously to take Gingrich’s
threat. But Treasury Secretary

Robert Rubin rebuked Gingrich,
saying, “Even the appearance of a

risk of default can have adverse
consequences.” He said that US
credit-worthiness should “not be
sacrificed under any circum-
stances,”

Amid the rush of critical bud-
get and Medicare legislation, the
House last Wednesday voted to
repeal the 55 mile-per-hour speed
limit on all vehicles.

The House would allow states
to determine their own speed lim-
its. The issue was raised as part of
a larger bill that would consolidate
interstates, state highways, sea-
ways, and public transportation into
a national highway system.

The Senate passed the high-
way bill on June 22, but it abol-
ished the speed limit only for pri-
vate. cars and small commercial
vehicles. Buses and trucks would
still be limited to 65 mph. The
differences between the compet-
ing bills will be worked out in a
House-Senate.conference commit-
tee. President Clinton opposes lift-
ing the 55 mph speed limit.

The debate pits state officials,
who believe they can better deter-
mine the speed limits on their own
roads, against critics like Rep. Nick
Rahall (D-WV), who believe that
“the death toll will rise once the
states begin increasing the speed
limits.” This debate is at least as
old as the original speed limit bill,
which was passed in 1974.
Sources include: September 21 and
22 of The New York Times and

September 22 of The Wall Street
Journal.

Dean Rusk Program

U.N. Women’s Conference
makes strides

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

This last week marked the end
of the Fourth World Conference
on Women. Over all, observers
seemed to be pleased with its out-
come and almost all the partici-
pants were pleased with how little
hostility there was between dis-

agreeing parties throughout the

conference. Issues brought before
the conference ranged from women
in leadership positions to lesbian-
ism. While not all of the issues
were addressed to the satisfaction
of everyone assembled, there was
major headway made on some
important topics.

Sex and power were the key

themes in the Conference’s Plat-’

form of Action. A large emphasis
was placed on a woman’ s ability to
make her own decisions in issues
surrounding her own sexuality and
child bearing. Violence against
women was also given a great deal
of consideration by the assembly.
In particular, rape as a result of war
(which has been common in the
former Yugoslavia and Rwanda)
and genital mutilation (which is
still an issue in many African coun-
tries) were strongly condemned and
punishments for these actions were
proposed. The final emphasis was
puton women’s position in society

Bosnian refugee women.

Letitia Campbell

and emphasized the importance of
female leaders as well as reiterat-
ing the importance of a strong fam-
ily.

It would be a mistake to as-
sume that the conference went over
totally without a hitch. It started
off on the wrong foot with all the
problems surrounding China’s ha-
rassment of the delegates during
the first week of the conference.
There was also major disagree-
ment over how much equality
women should receive. There was
a large concern among some coun-
tries (especially Muslim ones) that
following the conference’s plat-
form would lead to major unrest
and turmoil within their countries
which traditionally oppose equal-

ity of the sexes. :

There was also disagreement
over the use of contraception and
abortion by women to help further
their control of their own bodies.
And finally, probably the largest
unrest resulted from the issue of
recognizing and commenting on

the rights of lesbians. In the end, °

no statement was made regarding
homosexuality.

The final consensus seemed
to be that women needed to be
protected by their countries from
abuse and given a more equal posi-
tion in society. However, the ex-
tent of that equality was to vary
between different societies based
upon their historical, religious, and
social customs.

_ MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1995

Che Dawdsonian

ELSEWHERE

NOTES

Milky Situation

They came by the hundreds Friday to a Hindu temple in
rural Montgomery County, Md., to feed milk to a 2-foot statue
of an elephant-headed god named Ganesh.

And no matter how many skeptics tipped teaspoons of
milk into his tiny trunk, Ganesh never seemed to have his fill.

“It’s very difficult to explain, except to say it’s a miracle,”
said Arvind Patel, the director of the 2,000-member temple
Shri Mangal Mandir.

Miracle or not, Patel said temple members first offered the
idol a drink Thursday after they received calls from relatives in
India reporting that similar statues there had developed a taste
for milk, a traditional offering.

In the Asian: subcontinant, tens of thousands of people
lined yupo at temples Thursday to offer the statue’s milk and
take a look at the apparent wonder. The frenzy caused milk
shortages and work stoppages, and police sent out reinforce-
ments to control mob scenes at temples.

Indians called and e-mailed relatives and friends in En-
gland, the United States, Canada, Australia and Hong Kong,
asking them to present spoonfuls of milk to Lord Ganesh idols
- and crowds of the faithful and curious soon descended on
their temples.

At Mangal Mandir, Hindus streamed into the modest .
building throughout the day. Some brought milk. Others
dipped into a bowl provided by the temple. A half-dozen
plastic gallon containers of milk sat on the floor next to the
statue.

“I didn’t believe it until Icame here. Now I believe it,” said
Aruna Sharma, 38, of Silver Springs Md., who left to get her
two children so they could see for themselves.

“I have a Ph.D. in mechanical engineering, and I can’t
explain it,” said Haashad Parikh, a temple trustee who works
for a company that designs power plant simulators. “I went

.| back to my office and said, “I’m not insane, but this is really

happening.”

A Wahington Post reporter held a teaspoon of milk up to
the statue’s trunk and observed the fluid being absorbed into
the statue, which temple officials said is made of marble. There
were no visible holes in the statue. But the stone could have
been porous, because when the reporter carelessly spilled milk
on Ganesh’s potbelly, it disappeared too.

The statue could be made of stone that contains tiny
capillaries capable of drawing liquid from the surface, said
Shawn Carlson, a physics professor at the University of San
Diego who investigates supposed miracles.

Richard Muller, a physics professor at the University of
Berkeley, added: “This may be a natural phenomenon that no
one paid much attention to before because no one had tried to
feed the statue milk. But I suspect they’ll know soon enough,
when the milk begins to sour.”

-from the September 23, 1995 issue of The Charlotte
Observer

The Davidsonian would like to
apologize to Letitia Campbell for the
caption appearing on page 4 of the
September 18, 1995 issue.

The oversight was unintentional
and in no way reflects’ prejudices
against Ms. Campbell or in general.
The editors regret any embarrasment
caused by this error,

