THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 13

_ Voices that need
to be heard

A selection of up-and-coming female musicians

By JOHN CopENHAVER
Arts and Living Editor

In the past couple of years
female musicians have brought a
unique and important voice to
modern music. Fortunately, I’ve
had a chance to listen to few of
these artists in depth and discover
the diversity and the importance of
their talent in today’s world of
music.

The first — and my personal
favorite — is Tori Amos. When I
first heard her innovative piano
mixed with her passionate, effort-
less voice, I was hooked. She
bases the majority of her songs on
the piano, and uses back up instru-
ments such as violins and drums to
add favor to her already creative
piano style. She twists certain lyr-
ics into wavering, breathless
sounds adding a extremely sensual
quality to her songs. Most of her
music deals with different prob-
lems in women’s relationships to
men, parents, other women, and
God. Her albums include Little
Earthquakes, 1991 (my favorite)
and Under the Pink, 1994.

Sarah McLachlan, a Canadian

artist, has just recently become
popular with United States audi-
ence. Her flawless voice mixed
with dark airiness of her music is
subtly moving and intelligently
performed. She experiments with
different song arrangements and
different instruments (although
most of her music is guitar-based.)
All of her lyrics smoothly written
— words flow into words. Her
themes run from problems with
love to searching for spirituality,
and all her topics are cleverly ad-
dressed and imaginatively com-
municated. Her albums include
Touch,1989 (my favorite, but not
the most popular), Solace, 1991,
and Fumbling Towards Ecstasy,
1993.

Liz Phair’s work falls under
the category of guitar pop. She
uses a lot of acoustic guitar and
drums in her short, but well written
songs. In most of her music Liz
creates a catchy tune then utilizes
plenty repetition to. make the song
grow on her listener. Her style is
more traditional than the previous
two artists, but as equally original.
She writes most of her songs about
male-female relationships that have

gone wrong. Often she uses harsh
and bawdy lyrics to express her
displeasure in the state of 90s rela-
tionships. Her albums include Exile
in Guyville, 1993 and Whip-Smart,
1994.

Not as well known as the first
three, Toni Childs still has an im-
pressive body of work that de-
serves to be noticed. Her music
borrows some stylistic devises
from the music of Peter Gabriel,
but by no means copy Gabriel’s
work. She develops songs with
layers of different instruments in-
cluding many foreign and ethics
instruments,

Another interesting element
to Childs is that she cleverly forms
and album with a whole, unifying
concept in mind. Each of her al-
bums tackle a different broad
theme, and then break down the
parts of that theme song by song.
She is able to explore an issue from
different perspectives without com-
promising the musical cohesive-
ness of an album. Her list of al-
bums include: Union,1988, House
of Hope, 1991, and The Woman’s
Boat, 1994 (by far her most mature
work).

First

from page 10

~ Fath Mee aah

euphemized in the phrase “Chicks
before dicks!” that was entered
into the dialogue whenever a char-
acter mentions negative experience
with men. Another instance of this
negativity was showcased in an-
other line, “That’s how they rape
you over and over!” This seemed
a bit strong to generalize them as
raping you over and over. It is
understandable that a woman will
feel continually victimized after
being raped, but it is just as under-
standable to realize that not all
men are rapists and to generalize

them as such undermines a lot of
the strides made in communica-
tion between men and women. On
the other hand, it is also important

tp realize that women often do feel _

unfairly victimized and do lash out
without realizing the political cor-
rectness of their statements. Re-
gardless of whether this is right or

wrong, it does seem fair to say that:

Grimmell was showing that these
feelings exist and that they do need
an outlet.

A ‘ound of applause is due to
Grimmell, Director Scott Lenhart,
and the entire cast of The First
Time. As a first effort from a
student playwright, this play was
phenomenal. Not only did it bring
to light feelings ‘about sex that
young women everywhere deal

CKORY— HAM

HONEY GLAZED

The inexpensive way to make
ial occasion.

lunch a spec

th

D SPIRAL SLICED y

Awich

At Hickory Hams,” we serve

We cure our meats with pure natural honey then gently smoke them over real hickory
hardwoods. And that's what makes them so ‘like nothing you ever tasted’ good.

Coupon good for up to 2 saneburches

Hm nfm mm ry pe sis nes soe -

H H He

|.
$2.99 1152.99 # $3.99 1 93.99:
Kiss O' Honey Smokehouse 4; Hickory Hoagie ;; _ Executive
Sandwich Sandwich Sandwich 1 Lunch Boxes
‘i ™ a % Potato or ata

Mae suis ceauate, "smoked key Brac & Saves Honiee™ Smoked Tuhey | | © Pens Con Pe Spe

Chips & Pickle Sandwich, Chips & Pickle freed. Frain © #@ Hegarty Packaged wath Utensis

at our in-store Cafe-Deli.

[pet purchase Not qood with other offers

[ICKORY SHAMS

| languages required.

with, but it did so realistically. I
never felt as if the dialogue was
forced, and I never doubted that
each character meant what she was

Saying. Because The First Time.

was written by a student, it was —
really in tune with what is going on
with women right now. It brought
up alot of issues that both men and
women deal with on a day to day
basis, because sex is a part of
everyone’s lives.

Do YOU WANT
TO BEA
PHOTO-

JOURNALIST?
IF sO, CALL
Ros AT
-2148.
VERY
LITTLE
EXPERIENCE

REQUIRED.

INTERNATIONAL
EMPLOYMENT

Make up to $25-$45 per hour
teaching basic conversational English
abroad. Japan, Taiwan, and S.
Korea. Many employers provide
room & board + other benefits. No
teaching background or Asian
For more

information call:

(206)632-1146 Ext. J53631
International Employment Group

ON THE SCENE
kk

Davidson College Symphony Orchestra Concert. Conducted by
composer in residence Richard Prior, the concert will include Mozart’s
Overture to the Magic Flute, Grieg’s Piano Concerto inA Minor, and
Haydn’s Farewell Symphony. 8-10 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Coffee House. 8:30-11 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Philip Levine, celebrated American poet, winner of the 1995 Pulitzer
Prize for Poetry and the 1991 National Book Award for Poetry,
presents the Vereen Bell Award for Creative Writing and reads from
his own work. 7:30-9 p.m. in the 900 Room.

W. Robert Connor, Director of the National Humanities Center and
professor of classics at Duke University, speaks on “To Be an
Athenian: Personal and Civic Identity in Classical Athens.” 8-10
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Twenty-one-year-old night. 10:30 p.m.-midnight in the 900 Room.
Spring Convocation. 10:30-12 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

The American Dream and Icarus’ Mother. Edward Albee’s and
Sam Shepard’s one-act plays will be performed in the Studio Theatre

from 7:30-9:30 p.m.

Deno Trakas, a visiting writer, will read fiction at 7:30 p.m. in the
Carolina Inn.

Gold Finger & Dirty Harry Double Feature. 8-12 a.m. 900 Room.

Thursday

Tom Foley, Former Speaker of the House, comes to speak on his
successful 30-year career in the House of Representatives, 7:30-9
p.m. in Love Auditorium: f ‘

The American Dream and Icarus’ Mother. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in
the Studio Theatre.

Earth Day Celebration. Festivities include a band. lawn games, and
informative displays. 4-8 p.m. at Vail Commons patio.

Dr. John Graham, Professor at Wake Forest, speaks on ‘“‘Neuro-
biology of Cocaine Addition & Abuse.” 4:30 p.m. in Dana Rm. 204.

Friday

The Taming of the Shrew. Don’t miss Shakespeare’s hilarious and
socially relevant production performed by Dr. Cynthia Lewis’ “Per-
forming Shakespeare” course._7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Senior Piano Recital. Eric Hall performs in Hodson Hall at 8-9 p.m.

Saturday

The Taming of the Shrew. 7:30-9:30 p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

The Taming of the Shrew. 2-4 p.m. at Pian del Pino Outdoor Theatre,
the home of Margaret and Price Zimmerman. Call 896-6038 for
ticket information.

Opera Scenes. Students and music faculty present six scenes from
operas and operettas, including three by Gilbert and Sullivan, and
others from Mozart’s Magic Flute, Delibe’s Lakme, and
Humperdinck’s Hansel and Gretel. 8-9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Princess Bride. 8-10 p.m. in 900 Room.

All Week

Collection of Student Artwork. In the William H. Van Every, Jr.
Gallery. The show opens on Monday from 4-6 p.m. The gallery is
open 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through Friday and 2-5 p.m. on
weekends.

Senior Exhibitions. Allison Greenlee’s work will be on display in
the Edward M. Smith Gallery. 10 a.m.-4 p.m. Monday through
Friday and 2-5 p.m. on weekends.

