THE DA VIDS ONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 3, 1995. 7

“The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Opinions Editor Copy Editors
.MANDY CURTIS JEFF KENT DAVID SANTSCHI
ROBERT RAMSAY TERESA WHITE

Arts & Living Editors

Associate Editors JACOB ABRAHAM Business Manager
WILLIAM ROBERT JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH

RUSS TARVER

: Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor MATT PITZER WALT BARRON
MARY CLARE JALONICK CAROLINE BYNUM
Photography Editor

Assistant News Editor
MATTHEW EIRICH

ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

CRAIG MURPHY

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Moving forward,
together

The arguments presented in favor of co-ed dorms by hall for freshmen spurred
the SGA to pass a resolution of support. But what has been done since then? Like
the Alamo, co-ed dorms have not been forgotten. And also like the Alamo, it seems
that co-ed dorms are history.

Even though the SGA (and by implication, the entire student body) has voiced
its approval of the policy, the issue has not made it through the thick syrup of
bureaucracy. Which confounds us. Who has the power here? Who pays the bills?

In time with the SGA senatorial elections, the candidates should be reminded
that, whether they realize it or believe it, they have power. The SGA senators are the
voice of an entire student body — the students who elected them — and expect their
opinions to be represented and actions to be taken in the general direction of those
opinions. In addition, the administration, faculty, and especially the trustees should
be reminded that the very presence of the students makes. it possible for them to
presume what is best for us, although they remain séparate from’students’ lives.

We, the students, support co-ed dorms. Granted, there are voices among us who
disagree, but on a whole (as shown by the SGA’s resolution), we agree it is a change
that would improve life on this campus. And for good reasons:

First, healthy male/female relationships would be fostered sooner, and in a more
comfortable, residential atmosphere. As it stands, “the great monolith of single sex
living,” Belk dorm, proves a daunting and formidable monster that preys upon the
frail interaction taking place between itself and the faraway halls of Canon and
Richardson. Likewise, Richardson sits by itself, a bastion of femininity, in which a
male is seen as an.intruder. If both men and women lived in these buildings, although
separated by hall, any assumptions upon seeing a man in Rich or a woman in Belk
would be impossible to make, and men and women would know each other as
neighbors, and not babies from separate playpens.

Second, the class would develop more as a community, instead of aconglomera-
tion of distinct hall and dorm dominions. While the “freshman experience” is a vital
part of Davidson and should not be sacrificed, the experience would be enhanced by
the mingling of the sexes and development of close platonic relationships. Hall unity
would remain totally intact — flickerball, mixers, study breaks, etc., would remain
hall events. Dorm unity, however, would be gender encompassing, and instill
residents with a sense of comfort in the proximity of the opposite sex.

’ Third, co-ed dorms by hall for freshmen would promote mature, responsible
behavior. If treated like children, people will behave like children; by separating the
sexes so drastically right when they arrive on campus, a subtle message of distrust is
telegraphed to them. If housed in a co-ed dorm, though, the students will most likely
treat residents on other halls with the respect and friendliness that is expected,
regardless of gender.

For these reasons and strong support from the student body, the SGA passed their
resolution of support. For these reasons and strong support from the student body, the
members of the bureaucracy drowning the issue should, in fact, help it to swim. _

It’s too late for the Class of 1999; we’ve let it slip by. After that, however, we
will be moving into a new millenium. So, let’s move.

We, the students, are Davidson, and we should begin acting like it. If we believe
co-ed dorms are a good thing, we should not set the argument aside, but battle for it
like we would for our home. We should not set any arguments aside, but raise our
voices in chorus to support our beliefs, and work to achieve the unity for which we
are constantly striving.

Bi skal Abas

PRES ENTS

cheese
% Ger ©: S's =
TRINGS we Neve Mas KNownsy a

e¢®

PAK

fhe “hirsute.
4/10 | 87

a

at
the “siamese. twin

a

3/8/79)

the “hemogoblin”
7/14/63

2/8/79

uma shing ton's

5/17/92

the "antique '

prope

LETTERS

McMillen thanks brave students

To the editors,

I wish to thank the cou-
rageous and articulate
Davidson students and
graduates who opened their
lives tous at Monday night’s
Sexuality forum. The hun-

dreds of students who at-
tended and sensitively en-
gaged in discussion indicate
a significant change on this
campus inthe past five years.
Davidson can become a
place where all students, fac-

ulty and staff celebrate free-
dom of expression and iden-
tity. Thank you!

Sincerely;
Sally McMillen
History Department

Push for diversity _

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $32.50 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors,

Thank you for writing
the editorial entitled “Un-
tapped Resources” featured
in the March 27th issue of
The Davidsonian. 1 agree
with your opinions ex-
pressed in the editorial and
welcome the advice. 'Cer-
tainly, faculty and student
relations need not always be
on an academic level, be-
cause as you suggest, we are
more than students, and they
are more than just faculty.

To truly tap into our re-
sources, however, we must
look beyond just enhancing
student/faculty relations and
dialogue. In addition to this

.| meaningful chore, we should

also strengthen relations
with those to whom we are
closest, other students.
Certainly, this happens
much more often than, say,
our willingness to befriend
our history professor and ask
him or her about Patterson
Court. In fact, we, as stu-
dents, constantly explore and
broaden relations with other
students. Unfortunately,
though, we tend to befriend
or survey (on levels other
than just the “student” one)
those far too similar to our-
selves. We seldom look be-
yond our friends or those
representing similar values
and backgrounds simply be-

cause it is easy hot to do so.
This is ashame, andalthough
not ail students restrict them-
selves totheir “group,” many
do. It is a shame, and is a
problem, because Davidson
hosts a grand pool of re-
sources 1600 students
, strong.

Davidson students all
come from a different past
and all envision a different
future. Here at Davidson
there are students from the
North, and the South, East
and West. There are stu-
dents who speak two lan-
guages and some who speak
more than we can count.
Some students are young,
some are old, some are gay,
and others heterosexual.
Simply put, we are all differ-
ent and offer to this campus,
and toeach other, something
unique.

_ Totruly tap into our re-
sources we should sit down
and talk with a diverse range
of students, especially those
who we would not call our
“friends.” This is difficult,
and sometimes awkward, but
always rewarding. Ever
wanted to know what the
weather is like in Indonesia
or what the food is like in
Uganda or Estonia? How
about the soccer teams in
Mexico? Just ask the stu-
dents at Davidson who call

those countries home. Ever
wanted to learn about being
a minority at Davidson, or
how hard it is to struggle

with English as a second lan-

guage while here at
Davidson? Ask those stu-
dents who have the answers.
When determining what
changes could enhance
Patterson Court, ever
thought about asking an in-
dependent student?

How many students
know that there are about 62
international students?
While here they learn of the
American culture, but give
to Davidson as much, or
more, as they receive. Each
international student can
teach other students in a way
that books never could; they
are the countries they repre-
sent. Ask them and learn
fromeach of them. The same
also goes for all minority
students, who by race or
background, offer something
special and unique to this
college campus.

It goes both ways too,
and minority students, inter-
national ornot, can also learn
from those who are different
from themselves. They, too,
need to expand their interac-
tions with other students and

See Buford on page 8

We are lonely and we never get any mail. Send a letter to
the editors and make our lives easier.
Call -2148, or e-mail: Davidsonian @ Davidson.edu

