- THE DAVIDSONIAN.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995 5

Che DMabvidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors
MANDY CURTIS
ROBERT RAMSAY

Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER

Business Manager
KATHERINE HASH

Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager

Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports, Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor

_ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

Assistant News Editor

TED PENICK
JOANNA JOHNSON Asst. Photography Editor
‘ BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT Copy Editor
: LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

NON LETHAL
BAND GUM

CONFRONTATIONS

De JARFUL
#\ HORNETS
aay

Nae

RAT TRAP

e CAVSES PANIC,
CONFUSION, &
PAIN IN A SSA\LANT

ALTERNATIVES
foR. THOSE CLose QUARTER

WET NOODLE

° DEVASTATING

IN DARKENED ALLEYS

OPEN- FACED
Cay GRILL
NS CHEESE
e IF APPUED To

ATTACKER'S FACE,

CAVSES BLINDNESS pgyyety — parRTic-
ACUTE HUNGER ANXIETY — P

Boo6AR
SP + Flickep with
SUFFICIENT
ForCE, WILL
(NDVCE NAUSEA,

VLARLY IF AIMED
AT THE MOUTH oR
EYES

© CAVSES | HICKOKY HAM'S
DISFIGU RING IN ABLLITY To “SCORNED Woman
InduRies Te BRING Any R fo WoT SAUCE
ANY BODY PART OTRO + APPLIED TO
APPLIED To — Q © Te THARKNEE SKIN, CAUSES
VERY EFFecTIVE dee iad ie be
AGAINST RAPISTS/F AS Alles tg

JoNALLY LETHAL -

Half-naked
and tripping

What’s the big deal? So what if the Bud Light Girls were featured at the senior party
at Signatures last Thursday night? What’s so bad about girls dressed in skimpy, tight black
dresses with the Bud Light logo written right across their probably-surgically-enhanced
chests? What’s so offensive about young girls strutting around a bar and getting paid for
giving out t-shirts and bottle openers? So what?

Now, how many people watched the Miss America pageant Saturday night? What’s
all this hoopla about the bathing suit competition? They’ re allowed to wear bathing suits
and high heels in late September. How these women look in a swimming suit is absolutely
essential in order to judge who should be crowned Miss America. Can she sing, can she
dance, can she talk and smile at the same time, can she walk around half-naked without
tripping? These are extremely important measures of judgement — we don’t want just
anyone. F +: 4s f . 92 9]

In the past four days, two public events have demonstrated the still pervasive sexism
active in our society. These events show, at the least, that we haven’t done enough in our
crusade against gender biases.

How can women fight for equality in education, government, or business when for
centuries they have been seen as objects of men’s sexual desires? Either consciously or
subconsciously, men and women translate the “ideal” images of women into a basis for
judging all women. These images effectively silence women; they are seen as more
physical creatures than men, and men are therefore more intellectual - more fit for
business, government, and education.

Of course so many women suffer from eating disorders and body image problems
when all they see on television, in magazines, on billboards, in movies, at pep rallies, or
at a bar are women labeled “perfect.” The very notion of the existence of a “‘perfect body”
is a perverse belief. Yet all of these forms of advertisement and entertainment continue
to communicate that women should strive to be 5’5” and under 119. The message behind
the bathing suit and the black dress screams that this is what women should look like, and
that they should look like this for men.

We don’t want to sound like Shulamith Firestone or any of the radical feminists who
believe lesbianism and test-tube babies are the only escape from oppression for women.
But we do recognize the subtle and incessant sexist messages fed to us every day, usually
under the guise of innocent fun.

At the senior party, the men and women were split up to play a trivia game. The
women were asked sports questions and the men were asked soap opera questions, as if
the men only knew sports and the women only knew soaps.. Obviously, these messages
are being sent both ways. ;

And we can’t just brush it off by saying “‘it’s the media’s fault.” Obviously, we are
also at fault. We are not at fault for going to Signatures even though we know the Bud
Light Girls will be there, and we are not at fault for watching movies or television shows
that objectify women — or men, for that matter.

We are at fault when we recognize these images, and don’t think about what they
represent (in effect, condoning them). We are at fault when we accept the Bud Light girls
and the “perfect” Miss Americas unblinkingly and definitively as the truth.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Thanks for the wake up call

To the editors,

Last week The
Davidsonian reported that
Davidson has slipped from
number eight to number 21
in U.S. News and World
Report’s annual college
rankings. The administra-
tion was dumbfounded and
were unable to provide a
plausible explanation. This
report should serve as a wake
up call to this same adminis-
tration. Why has Davidson
slipped? Perhaps because
the administration and fac-
ulty have forgotten about the
needs of the students.

An obvious example of
this neglect may be found at
Covington Golf Course. The
athletic department has
failed to maintain this facil-
ity in the least. They cite
funding and physical plant
lay-offs as reasons for the
abominable condition of the
course, yet they still can af-
ford to build and maintain
new facilities for the soccer

teams. The athletic depart-
ment has sacrificed the nu-
merous average golfers so
that a few elites can have a
shiny new practice facility.
Further, the admissions -
staff has been. over-enroll-
ing for the past few years.
This increase in student
population has coincided

_with a faculty decision tocut

Classes taught from six to
five a year. As a result,
fewer and larger classes must
serve an ever growing stu-
dent body. Where are the
close and personal classes
that Davidson has bragged
about for years? They are
quickly disappearing be-
cause the same number of
professors are teaching less
classes to more students.
This year fall convoca-
tion has been moved from

‘parents’ weekend so that

Davidson can put on a big
show for a fund raising cam-
paign. My parents are com-
ing to parents’ weekend.

They were especially look-
ing forward to seeing their
$100,000: investment walk
all dressed up in cap and
gown (perhaps the only ma-
terial return they will ever
get on their money). I won-
der how my parents are go-
ing to feel when I tell them
the tenth of a million dollars
they have paid over the past
four years is not sufficient to
secure a seat at fall convoca-
tion.

I would like to thank the
staff at U.S. News and World
Report for giving Davidson
areality check. The faculty
and staff have been so busy
patting themselves on the
back that they have forgot-
ten about the one major area
that a liberal arts institution
must cater to, the students.
Perhaps now we can see a
return to the student oriented
college that so many of us
fell in love with years ago. ~

Sincerely,

Burt Arrington ‘96

At least get our name right

To the editors,

It’s no wonder
Davidson dropped intheU.S.
News and World Report
rankings — they don’t even
know ourreal name! In their
special college ranking edi-
tion, the magazine included
a special promotional add
on the cover referring to
Davidson as Davidson Uni-
versity. It’s amazing how in
over three years of atten-
dance at this school I have
remained completely un-
aware of our graduate pro-
gram. :
How can we place any
faith in a group of journal-
ists who lack the basic intel-

ligence and research skills
to omit such blatant errors
on the front page of their
magazine?

Personally, believe the
preoccupation with these
rankings only does our insti-
tution discredit. Let’s stop
paying so much attention to
some ranking compiled by
clearly uninformed report-
ers who probably have never
even visited our campus.

Get back to the things
that made Davidson great in
the first place: helpful, ac-
cessible professors; small,
challenging classes; a
friendly open. atmosphere;
an intelligent yet charming

student body; and open court
parties with no limits on al-
cohol distribution or under-
age drinking (sorry, I had to
throw that last one in there).

The people responsible
for rating the various na-
tional liberal arts colleges
are obviously as clueless as
they are careless. I wish the
rest of the students and fac-
ulty here would join me in
tossing this second rate tab-
loid in the trash next to the
last copy of The National
Enquirer.

Sincerely,
Mike Guggenheimer
‘96
