6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

This Week in Washington
Clinton’s address and response
set the year's new political tone

By Andrea Short

“There is no question that this
State of the Union speech is the
most important speech this presi-
dent will give.” That was how
Leon Panettta, White House Chief
of Staff, described Tuesday night
when President Clinton gave his
third State of the Union address.
Congressional members and other
Washington officials interrupted
Clinton’s speech with applause
countless times; however, with
Newt Gingrich seated directly be-
hind Clinton, no one could forget
how resoundingly the voters had
rejected Clinton’s politics this
November.

The address focused more on
broad ideals than specific pledges.
Realizing how difficult passing his
legislation through the Republican
Congress will prove, Clinton
backed away from clear promises
that could haunt him in 1996. Some
of the specifics that he did cham-
pion included raising the minimum
wage, creating a national registry
to check immigration status, and
lowering teenage pregnancy. Al-
though he avoided spelling out the
exact details, Clinton even coun-
tered the Contract with America

with his own New Covenant and
the Middle Class Bill of Rights.

His most adamant pledge,
however, dealt with old, not new,
legislation. Clinton made it clear
that he will take every measure to
keep the controversial Brady law
that Congress passed last year. In
the only moment of open hostility,
applause erupted from the Repub-
licans when Clinton made refer-
ence to the Representatives and
Senators who had lost their seats
after voting for the bill.

While cooperation between
the executive and legislative
branches remains unlikely, espe-
cially as the presidential election
nears, Clinton asked the Congress
to place their national loyalties
above their party ties, saying, “It’s
good for the American people.” In
an unconventional approach, he
put pressure on Congress to re-
form lobbying by rejecting lobby-
ists’ gifts and contributions rather
than relying on legislation to stop
such practices.

Americans were interested in
seeing what Clinton would say to
the Republican Congress and the
voters who elected them: 47 per-
cent of television viewers watched

what became the longest State of
the Union speech in history. For
days, Republicans joked abouthow
they should have called a recess or
been granted an intermission dur-
ing the 80 minute speech.

Governor Christine Todd
Whitman of New Jersey, chosen to
deliver the televised Republican
response, quipped, “Mr. President,
I am not going to ask for equal
time.” A rising star in the Repub-
lican party, Whitman exemplified
the reality that Republicans prom-
ise; just the day before responding
to Clinton’s speech, Whitman an-
nounced 15 percent tax cuts. She
referred to New Jersey’s success-
ful fiscal policy, small government,
and newly-reformed welfare poli-
cies as models for the federal gov-
ernment, and attempted to distance
Republicans from the Beltway in-
siders. She alluded to the
President’s calls for compromise
and even described “some of the
President’s ideas [as] sounding
pretty Republican.”

Sources include: the January 30
issue of7ime and the January 25
and 26 issues of The New York
Times.

Dean Rusk

Yeltsin nears victory in Chechnya

By Graham Ernst

Although Russian President
Boris Yeltsin declared victory in
his government’s six week war
with rebels in the breakaway
Chechen Republic, fighting con-
tinues in Grozny. Many Chechen
troops vow to take their battle to
the hills of Vedeno in southern
Chechnya if Grozny falls. Unfor-
tunately for Yeltsin, the hills, for-
ests, valleys, and cliffs of Vedeno
offer ideal conditions for guerilla
warfare.

Aside from the military tac-
tics involved, Yeltsin must pay the
much higher political price of fight-
ing an unpopular war. Foremost,
the Russian economy faces infla-
tion that rose more than 16 percent
in December alone.

There has also been a sharp
decline in foreign investment in
Russia since December 11, when
Yeltsin ordered 40,000 troops into
Chechnya to stop that republic’s
secessionist movement. In addi-
tion, on January 20 the Russian
ruble hit an all-time low value
against the U.S. dollar. Finally,
paying for the war in Chechnya
threatens to increase Yeltin’s-an-

_ hual budget deficit.

The war in Chechnya has also
strained Yeltsin’s relations with
his own military. Many high rank-
ing military officials are embar-
rassed with the Russian troops per-
formance against the determined,
yet ill-equipped, Chechen rebels.
It seems Yeltsin extremely under-
estimated the Chechen’s repulsive
force and did not properly equip
his armed forces.

The high number of civilian
casualties resulting from targeted
air strikes also tarnished Yeltsin’s
standing on the global scene. The

Clinton administration has taken a
step away from their once intimate
relationship with Yeltsin as Con-
gressional Republicans grumble
about continuing American aid to
Russia.

In addition, German Defense
Minister Volker Ruhe told his Rus-
sian counterpart Pavel Grachev
over the weekend that he is not
welcome at the upcoming security
conference in Germany because
Grachev denounced Russian mem-
bers of Parliament who called for
peace in Chechnya.

Yeltsin is left with no good
options. It is clear that Yeltsin’s
declaration of victory was opti-

mistic and premature. While he
attempts to reshape the conflict by
stressing that the Russian troops
e “policing” and not fighting,
Yeltsin must eventually decide if
he has the will to pursue a victory
at-any cost. With his present ap-
proval rating at a dismal eight per-
cent, the Russian President could
be gambling his own position in an
already volatile political climate.

Sources include: Jan 22 issues of

_ The New York Times andThe Wash-

ington Post; Jan 23 issue of The
Financial Times; Jan 25 issue of
The Wall Street Journal.

MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1995

NOTES

2000: The end of the world?

As the year 2000 approaches, Armageddon anxiety is increasing
along with the number of doomsayers predicting the imminent demise
of the world.

Some religious believers expect apocalypse now. Others expect
it later. Could 2000 be the long-awaited date when Christians have
expected Jesus Christ to return to judge the living and the dead?

Ted Daniels, editor of the Millennial Prophecy Report, estimates
that about 350 groups expect the end of the world by the year 2000.
He says the fascination with the end of the world transcends religious
groups. “It’s a human universal. You can find people talking about
it in almost any culture,” he says.

For Christians, The Bible’s Book of Revelation provides most of
the grist for end-times scenarios. Theologians studying the field
known as eschatology have developed complex and sometimes con-
tradictory explanations about how, according to Revelation, events
will unfold at the end of the world.

While not all religious groups believe that the world will end in
five years, almost all expect dramatic changes in the next millennium.
The New Age movement, which emphasizes higher consciousness,
love, and understanding, believes thatan age of Aquarius dawns every
2,000 years because the wobbling of the earth’s poles causes the sun
to begin its seasonal march in a different constellation. Many New
Agers believe that 1960 marked a change from Pisces, an age of
suffering, to Aquarius, a time of peace-seeking.

taken from an article by Greg Garrison in the January 22, 1995
edition of The Birmingham News

Roe y. Wade anniversary

marked by backers and foes of abortion
Activists on both sides of the abortion debate rallied Sunday

‘across the country to mark the 22nd anniversary of the U.S. Supreme

Court.decision that gave women the right to have abortions.

"While leaders condemned violence, the tensions that have flared
since the December 30 killings at two Boston abortion clinics showed
no signs of abating.

In Los Angeles, Norma McCorvey, the “Jane Roe” in Roe v.
Wade, held a news conference to decry the recent violence. Before
Roe v. Wade, “We lost millions of women to back-alley abortionists
who either left them to die from bleeding to death or injured them to
the point of leaving them childless forever,” McCorvey said.

taken from the January 23, 1995 edition of The Atlanta Consti-
tution

lot MORE!

looking for.

) r
Sa Check Us Out! S

COLLECTIONS! is an information and social

resource center for Charlotte's gay and lesbian
community. In our relaxed, friendly setting, you'll find...

games, periodicals and over 1,000 BOOKS available
to borrow; DELICIOUS coffees, teas, and desserts;
weekend ENTERTAINMENT and special events;
informal GROUPS like a bridge club and "twenty-
something talk;" nice PEOPLE of all ages who enjoy
a great ALTERNATIVE to the bar scene; Pils a whole

COLLECTIONS! extends a warm invitation for you
to visit us anytime. Just call us to find out our hours and
what's going on. We could be just what you've been

COLLECTIONS! |
(704) 333-SEEK
226 Baldwin Avenue
Charlotte, NC 28204

CORRECTION

The Davidsonian apologizes for incorrectly stating the campaign
promises and activities of a candidate for SGA president. The
correct information for Bill Gullan follows:

Bill Gullan: “Put Some Bite in the SGA”

Campaign promises: “I will get our points across in such areas as
student representation on the Admissions Committee and the exor-
bitant increase in prices and decreased effectiveness of student
services. I will emphasize the common experience to create unity
among Davidson’s student groups.

Activities: Hall Counselor, SGA Senator, Activities Tax Council,
Student Advisory Committee to the Vice President for Institutional
Advancement, The Davidsonian

CAMP CAROLINA
needs counselors June 5 thru Aug. 16. We have 20
in-camp activities & 8 high adventure, out-of-
camp activities. Don't miss an amazing summer

opportunity!
Come see us at the job fair between the hours of
11:00 am & 1:30 pm.
For more informers call Bonet Nath or Alfred

