THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995 5

Week in Washington
House passes Medicare bill

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

The House last Thursday ap-
proved a sweeping overhaul of
Medicare, the federal program that
has financed health care for the
elderly since 1965. Approved by a
vote of 231 to 201, the bill cuts
overall Medicare spending by $270
billion over the next seven years
by imposing spending limits and
encouraging patients to consider
managed-care plans and medical
savings accounts.

The vote was highly partisan,
with only four Democrats joining
with all but six Republicans to
support the bill. President Clinton
said the bill would “eviscerate the
health system” and vowed to veto
the measure, which is part of a
larger budget reconciliation bill.
Greeted with ovations onthe House
floor, Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-
GA) praised Republicans for their
“guts” and said that the bill was “a
solution to preserve and protect.
Medicare.” The bill received no
public hearings and little debate.

The day was filled with parti-
san rancor, and both parties re-
peated a few carefully selected
themes. Rep. Pat Williams (D-
MT), like many of her Democratic
colleagues, accused Republicans
of “gutting Medicare,” and Rep.
John Dingell (D-MI) claimed the
bill was used “‘to finance tax cuts
for the rich.” Republicans like
Rep. Dave Camp (R-MI) defended

_ the overhaul, saying that it would
“preserve, protect, and strengthen
Medicare.” The debate, which Re-

publicans limited to a mere three
hours, was a disconnected string of
cliches and political attacks rather
than real dialogue.

The savings in the bill would
mainly be used to pay for a $245
billion dollar tax reduction that
Republicans have promised. While
the bill does prevent Medicare from
going insolvent by limiting health
care spending, the cuts reach far
beyond this goal to fund a $500 tax
credit for children under 18 and
student loan interest. A Demo-
cratic alternative that would have
cut $90 billion over seven years
without any tax relief failed 283-
149,

The bill would reform Medi-
care in two ways. First, it man-
dates reductions in spending and
sets definite limits on Medicare
growth. Seventy percent of sav-
ings would come from limiting the
growth of federal payments to
health-care providers. From 1995
to 2002, average spending for each
recipient would be limited to a 6.2
percent yearly increase. Also, the
bill raises monthly Medicare Part
B premiums, which include physi-
cian services, to $87.60 by 2002,
from the current $46.10.

Second, the bill changes the
way Medicare funds its recipients.
The traditional fee-for-service plan
would still be offered. However,
the elderly could choose
MedicarePlus and get care through
health maintenance organizations |
or new networks that would be set
up directly by.doctors and hospi-
tals. The government, within strict
spending limits, would reimburse

the HMO for each Medicare pa-
tient itcovered. Finally, recipients
could choose tax-free medical sav-
ings accounts. The government
would contribute a standard Medi-
care amount to each account. Part
could be used to purchase low cost,
high deductible insurance to pay
for catastrophic illnesses, and the
rest would pay for uncovered medi-
cal expenses.

Introducing these choices has
drawbacks, particularly for low-
income people. Critics contend
that the bill would force the clos-
ing of inner-city and rural hospi-
tals, who depend on federal Medi-
care subsidies that the bill reduces.
Some fear that “fail-safe” spend-
ing controls used to automatically
cut payments to doctors for Medi-
care services would prevent ben-
efits from keeping pace with infla-
tion. Doctors might regard Medi-
care patients as unprofitable and
refuse to treat them. Medicare’s
decreasing reimbursements might
also encourage HMOs to actively
seek only healthy, younger people
who need less care.

The Senate is expected to con-
sider a similar overhaul bill this
week, which will be reconciled
with the House version in confer-
ence. With about 40 million eld-
erly Americans currently receiv-
ing Medicare, the overhaul will
have staggering medical and po-
litical consequences.

Ty

and 20 of The New York Times
and October 20 of The Wall Street
Journal.

Dean Rusk

Speaker provokes
heated discussion

By WILL BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

Mr. Haywood Rankin, a U.S.
diplomat specializing in the Near
East, spoke on the nature of the
Israeli/Palestinian conflict Mon-
day night in the Carolina Inn.

His talk lasted about an hour,
moving from his background as a
diplomat and information on the
Arab and Israeli worlds, into a dis-
cussion of the conflict itself and
the recent attempts at peace. Rankin
stressed the idea that Israel is seen
as a western nation by the typical
American, giving Israel a sympa-
thetic position in the minds of the
public, and the limits of American
diplomatic power.

After he was done with his
lecture he opened the floor for ques-
tions, and Yanti Ardie, a sopho-

more, asked through subdued‘ari*”’

ger what justification the U.S. gov-
ernment had to intervene in the
conflict at all.

Rankin responded by saying,
“The American people have strong
feelings about Israel. We feel it to
be a Western state. We feel a bond
with them (the Jews in Israel) and

feel sympathy for them after the _

Holocaust. This is a kind of under-
standing we do not feel for the

Arab world. [As diplomats and
government officials] we do what
the American people want.”

The question and answer ses-
sion branched into other issues
from this point, but Ardie was not
entirely satisfied with that response.
She later explained her position
more fully.

“T’ ve been extremely shocked
at how totally ignorant people are
about the Palestinian side of the
issue. They don’t realize that the
Zionists took over and threw all
the people out, destroying villages
and killing men, women, and chil-
dren. You don’t hear about that.
You hear about Palestinians blow-
ing people up. This is the root of a
media-backed conspiracy. People
don’t understand the PLO or
Arafat,” she said.

“The American layperson has
noconcept of a Palestinian. People
associate Palestinians with Islamic
fundamentalists, but one-quarter
of Palestine is Christian. There are
also many Palestinian Jews that
are shunned by the Israeli Jews,
including a man who was recently
released from prison (as a part of
the peace agreements), ” Ardie
stated.

“Iam obviously pro-Palestine,
but to truly understand the situa-

tion we need someone with a bi-
partisan view point. A person who
can express sympathy for the Jew-
ish plight and also present the Pal-
estinian plight as it truly has been.

‘Then we would understand why

the conflict has been so violent,”
Ardie said.

Rankin had spoken to this in-
directly during his lecture when he
stressed the extent to which the
Palestinians feel bound to the land.
“America has lost the sense of the
land, but many other cultures and
peoples feel bound to their land.
The Palestinians feel they have
been moved off their land by an
alien people,” he said. ;

The conflict hinges on his be-
lief held by both Israelis and Pales-
tinians that the disputed land, Is-
rael, belongs wholly to their own
people and not the other. Rankin
summed the conflict up in his lec-
‘ture by saying: “Both sides have an
absolute trust in the rightness of
their position.”

But now, after many years of

war and tension there seems to be
a chance at peace in Israel. A re-
cent bill has been passed by the

Israeli legislature by a vote of 61- ° |
59, giving Palestinians within Is- .

rael'a taste of autonomy, said
Rankin.

; Sources include: October 19

NOTES

A checkbook conspiracy:
Why Vince Foster lives

On Sunday night Mike Wallace of 60 Minutes isaavek once
again that, yes, Vincent Foster did commit suicide in Fort agate,
Park, Virginia, in July 1993,

As news goes, this story is only slightly more shocking than
dog-bites-man. Among the others who have judged the Foster
death a suicide are two Congressional committees run by Republi-
cans, the F.B.I., Foster’s own family, the Fairfax County Medical
Examiner and the first of the Whitewater independent counsels,
Robert Fiske.

So why did Mr. Wallace even bother to investigate? There is
less evidence to support the supposition that Foster’s death was a
homicide than there is to prove that Nicole Brown Simpson was
murdered by Colombian drug dealers. But as Mr. Wallace ex-
plained, facts aren’t the issue in the incredible Foster murder case
— public opinion is. Despite all the official findings, polls show
that two-thirds of Americans still remain unconvinced that Foster
killed himself. And so 60 Minutes dutifully deflated the more
widely circulated conspiracy theories, with Mr. Wallace even
demonstrating on himself how the blood Foster spilled was consis-
tent with a self-inflicted bullet wound in the head.

End of story? Not quite. Before we try once again to lay Vince
Foster, poor man, to rest, it’s worth looking at exactly why these
cockamamie scenarios about his demise have had such a long and
widespread shelf life. It’s not because they’re plausible. It’s not
because the. American people are so credulous — or mindlessly

“anti-government” — that they see an Oliver Stone. plot behind
every official. corpse; however-obscure. N

propaganda throughout the body politic

In this case, the money belongs to a little-known man often
described as “reclusive” — Richard Mellon Scaife. An heir to the
vast Mellon fortune with a net worth estimated by Forbes at $800
million, Mr. Scaife plays a role in several family foundations that
have for decades contributed huge sums to right-wing causes and
think tanks. He also is the owner of a small newspaper near his
hometown of Pittsburgh, The Tribune-Review, which just happens
to be the only daily in the country persistently floating theories of
a Foster murder and cover-up.

Since it’s not exactly easy to find The Tribune-Reviewon your
local newsstand — and since no reputable news organization,
conservative ones included, takes the paper’s Foster reportage '
seriously enough to reprint it — Mr. Scaife finds other ways to
spread the “news.” For well over a year now, papers stretching from
The Washington Postto the Los Angeles Times have run costly full-
page ads reiterating The Tribune-Review’s findings. The ads are
placed by a nonprofit California organization calling itself the
Western Journalism Center. What the ads don’t say is that the
Western Journalism Center is a recipient of Scaife foundation
largess.

Who else gets money from one Scaife foundation or another?
As The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette reported two weeks ago, the
list includes the magazine The American Spectator and the organi-
zation Accuracy in Media, both of which also keep the Foster story
simmering, as well as the National Taxpayers Union, whose chair-
man, James Dale Davidson, fans The Tribune-Review’s Foster °
flames in both a newsletter and a widely merchandised videotape.

Mr. Wallace did an expert job of finding errors in that video-
tape on 60 Minutes. But perhaps not even the CBS of old — let
alone the enfeebled CBS of today —could counter an extravagantly
funded, multimedia disinformation campaign assaulting Ameri-

_ cans from all sides under a variety. of “journalistic” rubrics. Ac-
cording to the magazine Christian Century, the Scaife fortune is
filtered into outlets as various as NET, the conservative TV chan-
nel, and 70 conservative college newspapers.

None of this is illegal, of course. In America, those who hate '’

~ a President have the right to spend every last penny to try to tar him
with the death of a close aide. But in the end the strange case of
Vincent Foster may say less about either Bill Clinton or his political
nemeses than it does about the power of anyone with an unlimited

- checkbook to roil national opinion about any issue without ever ~
letting voters see who's pulling the sings: ie

-Submitted to The Davidsonian by ‘Wiltiom E. Jackson, Jr. ‘57;
| written by Frank Rich, fromThe New York Times October 11, 1995.

‘to"do with money, and the power of money to. ‘spread noxious.. ,

