THE DAVIDSONIAN .

MONDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1995 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors’ Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY :
Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager
Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor
ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager

Assistant News Editor

TED PENICK
JOANNA JOHNSON: Asst. Photography Editor
BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE

JEFF KENT Copy Editor

LAUREN FREEMAN

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

SGA PROPOSAL FeR ‘GE:

REPLACE ALL DORM LOUNGE Ty'5
WITH COCK-FIGHTING PITS

P 10,

LETTERS

Working on beauty

The Convoquestion

Historically, Fall Convocation falls on the Friday of Parents’ Weekend. This year,
however, a decision was made to move the date up to this coming Friday, a date nowhere
near Parents’ Weekend. The organizers of the event claim the move was made because
the Trustees and other significant contributors to the college will be here this weekend,
and it is important for them to be able to attend Convocation.

By implication, then, it is not as important for our parents to be able to attend
Convocation — in comparison to trustees and major contributors, at least. Also, placing
Convocation on the Friday before Fall Break implies that it is not as important for students
(not just seniors) to attend — in comparison to trustees and major contributors.

We object to this attitude. Granted, the trustees and other significant contributors to
the college and the Campaign for Davidson should see the good which their money and
support accomplishes. Granted, Davidson would not be able to do‘anything without the

support of these fine alumni and benefactors. Granted, we should do all we can to.

improve relations with our supporters and try to include them in all important.events.
However, this is our school. At Convocation, we are lauded for our accomplish-

ments. Our professors are awarded for what they have done for the college and for.us.
To deny parents the opportunity to witness the public recognition of their children is
reprehensible. (Of course, parents are not forbidden to attend. They may, if they can,
make.an extra trip to the campus.)

Supposedly, scheduling Convocation on an inconvenient date will never be neces-
sary again. Supposedly, the organizers of the event have realized their mistake. But what
happens if, two or three years in the future, it once again becomes a necessity? Will the
administration say, “It worked once; let’s do it again”?

The only concrete deterrent to this happening again is student action. At Davidson,
we often complain that students are apathetic, that we are too concerned with our futures

to take a stand on anything campus-related, and that we easily capitulate to the whims of

the Trustees and upper echelons of faculty and administration.

We object to this attitude as well. The fact that members of the SGA conducted a
senior survey about Convocation proves that we aren’t apathetic — we do care.

Do not label us as ingrates. We have tremendous appreciation for those who made
the Campaign for Davidson a huge success. We understand the added opportunities we
and those who follow us will have because of the work of many wonderful people. These
contributors and supporters will be thanked informally Wednesday, October 4, and
formally on Thursday, October 5. Although no student representatives are invited to
these events, we are glad that the contributors will be honored for their efforts.

Despite our appreciation, we challenge every student to think about this issue. Are
we content with having decisions made without us, or do we want to begin demanding
a voice in student-related school affairs? We are not calling for a boycott of Convocation
— if you wantto go, feel free. But realize that with your attendance you will be condoning
attitudes that we, as the students of Davidson College, are attempting to dismantle.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The.Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the editors:

Since the topic of cam-
pus beatification arose in the
SGA and consequently in
The Davidsonian, we, the
Campus Beautification
Committee, have received
some negative responses

from students, faculty, and —

staff. We would like to com-
ment on the campus and
community perception as we
perceive it and try to dispel
the ideas that we feel are
misconceptions.

This committee does not
feel that Davidson is ugly.
We think it’s beautiful. Our
purpose is to increase its
beauty: through mostly
simple but necessary im-

‘confusing signs, and erosion
control and Jand use in areas
such as the cross country
trail will also be a focus of
our attention. It is our hope
that these improvements and
others will make Davidson
an even better place to live.

Also, we have perceived
confusion over the~ place-
ment of this issue as first in
the town meeting series.
Unfortunately, some took
this to mean that the beauty
of our campus is the fore-
most concern of the SGA
and that we have nothing
more important to act on.
We apologize if this is the
case. The SGA formed our
committee first and wanted

necessarily the most impor-
tant.

Finally, the SGA town
meetings are not meetings
for the town of Davidson.
The mayor will not be there,
but heads of our faculty and
staff departments will. It is
an opportunity for you and
your peers’to voice your’
opinions on campus issues
in aresponsive and proactive
atmosphere. It is a catalyst
for action.

As always, talk to us.
Please come to the SGA Sen-
ate and town meetings on
Tuesday at 9 p.m. and Thurs-
day at 7 p.m., respectively,
in the Union Conference
Room. See you there!

provements. These include tousethis forumasaspring- Sincerely,

more ashtrays, trash cans, board for it. This issue is The SGA Campus
and flowers. The paintingof _ one of many concerns we Beautification.
buildings, the eliminationof,__ focus on each week and:not.__|_Committee...

Please come to Convocation

To the editors:

I was pleased to see The
Davidsonian’s article de-
scribing Fall Convocation on
October 6. Iam writing par-
ticularly to encourage the
Class of 1996, as well as
students from all classes, to -
attend this historic event
before taking off for Fall
Break. This traditional fall
gathering offers the senior
class a once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to march in cap
and gown with their faculty
and trustees, to hear Dr. John
Brademas speak, to see fel-
low students recognized for
excellence, and yes, to help
celebrate the success of the
Campaign for Davidson.

With so much happen-
ing on campus, it might be
possible to overlook the sig-
nificance of this convoca-

tion. As many know, for the
past six years and for several
years of preparation before
that, the college has been
engaged in a very ambitious
fundraising effort. In his
understated style, President
John Kuykendall called it a
“quiet resolve.” After years
of hard work — much of it
led by the president — and
inspirational generosity from
members of the college fam-
ily all over the country, the
campaign ended during the |
summer while most students,
many faculty members —
and even Dr. Kuykendall —
were away.

Naturally, the college
community needed to be in-
volved in a celebration of
the campaign’s many con-
tributions to the college and
athank you tothe volunteers

and donors who made these
contributions possible. Fall
Convocation, a traditional
celebration of academic life,
offered an ideal setting in
which to present the fruits of
the campaign to the
Davidson community in a
symbolic way. Thus, Con-
vocation was scheduled to
include this celebration and
to coincide with the autumn
trustee meeting.

Many things we con-
sider a natural part of
Davidson — events and op-
portunities advertised on the
flyers in halls of Chambers
everyday — are results of
campaign gifts: “Come Hear
the Henry Louis Smith Lec-
ture; Apply for the McGraw

See Meg on page 9

Thanks from the toga boys

To the editors,

On behalf of the broth-
ers of Phi Delta Theta, I
would like to thank the fol-
lowing organizations for
their efforts towards
Saturday’s Toga party: BSC,
Connor, Rusk, Warner Hall,
F-Crew, the College Union,
RLO, Campus Safety,
Amici’s, and Bealer Whole-
sale. Without their support
the event could not have

taken place.

Several individuals also
deserve special thanks for
theirefforts: Dean Shandley,
Sandra Rhyne, Kurt Holmes,
Matt Hasuly, Henry, Bronc,
and, of course, Otis Day &
the Knights. Most impor-
tantly, I would like to thank
Mark Wittschen, the man
who made the whole night
possible. Saturday night was
Mark’s project, from the
original idea to the final
product. Finally, I would

like to thank everyone who
attended the concert, from
students to alumni to towns-
people to the professors on
the Outpost porch. You
made the night a success.
Any omission in this list
is due more to a fierce hang-
over than a lack of gratitude.

Thanks again,

Brian Cole '96
(on the behalf of the
Brothers of Phi Delta Theta)
