THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 24, 1995 5

Trustees debate religion

By SARAH TEACHWORTH
Staff writer

Every two years, the trustees
attend a retreat to reflect upon ma-
jor issues affecting the school.
This year, they combined this tra-
dition with their spring meeting.

Last Thursday and Friday, the
trustees met in Litchfield, South
Carolina to discuss, among other
issues, the much-debated connec-
tions between the church and the
college.

Three major issues discussed
by the trustees were the require-
ments that all religion professors
be Christian, the president of the
college be Presbyterian, and the
trustees be an active member of a
Christian church,

SGA President .Bill Gullan,
whoattended the retreat, described
the discussion as “very, very inter-
esting” and said that he “was sur-
prised and impressed with the level
of consideration the issues had been
given by the trustees.”

There was a presentation of
the Presbyterian document, “On
Being Faithful.” Afterwards, the

Cyprus
program

By RANDY HARTWELL
Staff writer ~

Davidson’s Summer in
Cyprus program, now in its sixth
year, recently received a $50,000
grant from the National Science
Foundation (NSF). The program,
which consists of an archaeologi-
cal dig and course on the Mediter-
ranean island, began in 1990 when
Professor of Classics Michael
Toumazou started an excavation
near the city of Athienou.

The grant will cover tuition
and travel arrangements for 10 of
the program’s 15 undergraduate
participants. Each scholarship was
given according to the applicant’s
merit, not financial need. The NSF
grant-will underwrite the expenses
of two Davidson students — junior
Geoffrey Carden and sophomore
Jamie White.

Students who take part in the
program are exposed to the three
primary aspects of a major archaeo-
logical site: a tomb, settlement,
and sanctuary. In its six years, the
project has unearthed sculptures,
statuary, and jewelry, some of
which now resides in the island’s
Larnaca Museum.

Toumazou, who is on leave

attendees were split up into discus-
sion groups. The groups first con-
sidered how well Davidson lived
up to the six precepts, set out by the
Presbyterian Church, of a church-
related college.

Gullan said that the issues
would mostlikely come to be voted
on at the October trustees’ meeting
and gave tentatve predictions about
their outcomes.

Gullan said, “There seems to
be consensus that the religion de-
partment requirement is something
that must be changed.” However,

he feels that the requirement of the :

president will likely remain intact.
Attendees of the retreat seemed to
be split on the issue.of whether
trustees need to be church-goers.

Several possible compromises
were discussed, such as changing
the by-laws so the majority of the
trustees would have to be Chris-
tians or so only the trustees elected
by alumni would not be required to
be Christians.

One definite result of the re-
treat, though, was that Gullan be-
came more confident than ever that
relations between the students and

trustees will be improved.

“I was very grateful that my
presence was received so warmly.
Many sometimes feel on campus
that they [the trustees] are.stub-
born, out of touch, and that their
minds are already made up. How-
ever, I found that was definitely
not true,” he said.

Gullan was allowed to attend
to represent the student body in
accordance with the trustee by-

laws. Former SGA President Eric °

Rosenbach was also invited be-
cause many of the issues’ under
discussion were initiated by him
during his term.

In the near future, students
will be acting members of the com-
mittees and will therefore be al-
lowed to attend the meetings arid
retreats.

Gullan added that several
trustees approached him to say that
they love reading The Davidsonian
and correspondence from the SGA
and enjoy the time they get to spend
on campus.

He says, “Everyone wants
closer ties between the students
and trustees.”

INTERNATIONAL BALL

Lo,

&

Brandon Clarke

Cutting up the dance floor. Hi, Brad!

Be BY Turnage *42°wno

cussed, much less practiced.

Altadena, California

~ Alumni Concerns

Graduates express strong opinions about FLAG

Editor's Note: In the Spring 1995 Davidson Journal, several letters were written to the editor commenting on the

FLAG chapter at Davidson. Here are two of them.

' I would like to add my support for the letter written by Mr.

‘criticized ang articte in the Forum which’ the’
promoted “acceptance and the introduction of the gay culture.”
I am totally amazed and disgusted if that is the truth.

I was a student at Davidson from. the fall of 1929 until I
graduated in 1933. I was amember of a fraternity, was involved
in a number of campus activities including being editor of The
Davidsonian, and I cannot recall that the issue was ever dis-

I don’t think our generation was any better morally than the
present one. I surely hope not, which explains my utter amaze-
ment that any civilized person, much less anyone connected with
Davidson, would tolerate such actions.

Edward O. Guerrant ‘33

It was with a great deal of delight that I read the edition of

Davidson chapter of FLAG. I have been waiting for such an
announcement since I realized I was a lesbian (shortly after
graduating from Davidson in 1986). I was disappointed by the
close-minded responses in the most recent edition of the Jour-
nal. It is time for Davidson to acknowledge that many of her
alumnae, staff, faculty and students are gay. Our contributions
to the life of Davidson are just as valuable as those made by
non—gay alumnae, faculty, and students. It will be a tragedy if
Davidson chooses to continue to be silently tolerant, ignoring
our existence, perpetuating ignorance. I made my financial
contribution to Davidson in 1994 as I finally feel Ican support —
Davidson by helping make it a more supportive place for people
like me.

M. Amy Leonard ‘86

Bothell, Washington

Southlake Shopping Center

After Finals ...

The Cramming Begins!

Having trouble getting your stuff home from college?
Let Mail Boxes Ftc? pack and ship it for you.
From computers and stereos to boxes of books and furniture,
Mail Boxes Ftc. handles your shipments with care.
MBE can pack and ship just about anything.

rr’s Nov Wuar We Do.
Ir’s How WE Do [I1>

ee ee ee eee

10% OFF

Davidson Students & Faculty on

je Support’ Gre" *

Port Village Shopping Ctr.
Hwy 150 West of I-77
Mooresville, NC 28115

this spring, has said that the sig-

nificance of the dig lies in its in-

land location on the island.
Diane Stirling, who has

all services except postage,
stamps, & money transfer.
Current I.D. required.

I-77; Exit 28 West
20601 Torrence Chapel Road #104

worked with Toumazou on the | Davidson, NC 28036 Rehires 9.1.95 Tel:(704) 663-8833
Cyprus program, andis Directorof 911.704) 892-9760 : Fax:(704) 663-7193
Instructional Support Services at

Davidson, says the NSF grant will Fax: (704) 892-7794 Mn am cms: sens sam sm ns ce i sm et tl Mon-Fri 9-6; Sat 10-2

“sive the program national expo-

UPS Authorized Shipping Outlet Each Mail Boxes Etc® Center is an independently owned and operated franchise. ©1995 Mail Boxes Etc.
sure. ;

