6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1995

Week in Washington

Congress debates
Bosnia policy

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

As President Clinton articu-
lated his reasons for sending U.S.
troops to enforce the Bosnian peace
settlement, Republican congres-
sional leaders offered only cau-
tious support for the mission.

Clinton made his case in a
twenty-minute televised address

from the Oval Office last Monday. .

He sought to rally Americans be-
hind the dispatch of peacekeeping
troops to enforce the U.N.-spon-
sored Bosnian peace accord. The
President argued that America has
both a moral duty and a strategic
interest in ending the three-year-
old conflict. While vowing to end
“the mass executions, the ethnic
cleansing, the campaigns of rape
and terror,” Clinton argued that
“the war would reignite’ and
NATO would be crippled without
American intervention.

The Bosnian peace agreement
was signed two weeks ago by the
Presidents of Bosnia, Serbia, and
Croatia at Wright Patterson Air
Force Base in Dayton, Ohio. It
authorizes the placement of 60,000
NATO troops, a third of them
Americans, in Bosnia to enforce a
cease-fire and protect a 2.5 mile
wide buffer zone between the war-
ring groups.

Clinton pledged that the
20,000 American troops sent to
Bosnia will be commanded by an
American general and limit’ them-
selves to peacekeeping operations.
The Joint Chiefs of Staff predict
that the mission will cost $2 billion

and last approximately one year.
The troops will be “heavily armed
and thoroughly trained” in order
“to respond with overwhelming
force.” Acknowledging the risks
of military intervention in the war-
ravaged region, Clinton assumed
full responsibility for any casual-
ties.

His speech only partially con-
vinced skeptical lawmakers that
American vital interests are at stake
in Bosnia. Although Clinton does
not need formal congressional au-
thorization to send troops, a joint
resolution supporting the mission
would enhance its credibility,

The House of Representatives
is more hostile to Clinton’s pro-
posal than the Senate. Majority

Leader Dick Armey (R-TX) said ~

obtaining House support “is not
going to be ... an easy proposi-
tion.” Many freshman Republi-
cans are wary of American partici-
pation. “I see no reason to send
young men over there to lose their
lives over something we can do
nothing about,” said Rep. Sue
Myrick (R-NC) of Charlotte.
Republicans in the Senate
were more subdued.in their reac-
tion because Majority Leader Bob
Dole (R-KS), who suffered severe

‘injuries in World War II, threw his

support behind the President. “We
in the Congress have a responsibil-
ity to try to insure — to our best
ability — that as this deployment
goes forward, that we create the
conditions to end it quickly and
successfully,” Dole said on the
Senate floor Thursday. Dole ar-
gued that once the President has

decided to commit American
forces, he should be supported to
preserve military morale and pub-
lic confidence.

Objections in Senate commit-
tee hearings surfaced around two
issues: the real possibility of Ameri-
can casualties and the chances of a
military stalemate. Sen. Sam Nunn
(D-GA), who is highly respected
on military issues, sought a clearer
definition of the goals and time-
table of the mission. But most
others followed Dole’s example
and expressed reluctant support for
U.S. action that is widely perceived
as inevitable. In Senate testimony
Tuesday, former national security
advisor Brent Scowcraft said,
“Risky as I think the situation is for
U.S. troops, the alternative, in my
judgment, is a clear disaster.”

Senate Republicans on Thurs-
day began drafting a bipartisan
resolution supporting the use of
American soldiers in Bosnia. A.
resolution will depend on reaching
agreement on whether US troops
should be permitted to train and
arm Bosnian Muslims. A joint
resolution of Congress is sched-
uled to be approved before the
formal signing of the peace accord
on December 14. If troops are sent
shortly afterward, they will test
Clinton’s belief that America “can
mean the difference between peace
and war.”

Sources include: November 28
and 29 and December I of The
New York Times and November
28 and 30 of The Wall Street Jour-
nal.

Dean Rusk Program

Sarajevo: Another Jerusalem?

By Eric CoLtincs
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

On November 21, following
three weeks of intense negotia-
tions, the leaders of the three rival
Balkan states — Presidents Alija
Izetbegovic of Bosnia, Franjo
Tudjman of Croatia, and Slobodan
Milosevic of Serbia — initialed a
peace agreement ending the nearly
four years of warfare in the Balkans.
The agreement divides Bosnia into
two entities — a Bosnian-Croat
Federation and a Bosnian Serb
Republic — and accords refugees
the legal right to return to their
homes. A constitution creates a
central with a group presidency, a
two-house legislature, and a cen-
tral bank although each entity will
have its own president and legisla-
ture as well. Sixty thousand NATO
peacekeeping troops will patrol 2.5
mile wide buffer zones between
the parties. However, even as Sec-
retary of State Warren Christopher
praised the deal as “a victory for all
those who believe in a multi-eth-
nic democracy in Bosnia,” Bosnian
Serbs, who had ceded their negoti-
ating rights to President Milosevic,
criticized provisions for the status

of Sarajevo.

Sarajevo played a prominent
role during the past four years.
The site of the 1984 Winter Olym-
picsis considered the soul of Bosnia
and an important symbol of resis-
tance against the initial Serb sieges.
The February 1994 Sarajevo mar-
ketplace massacre led NATO to
conduct its first-ever offensive
operation, and another mortar at-
tack this past September galva-
nized public opinion against the

- Bosnian Serbs and yielded retalia-

tory NATO airstrikes which many
believe helped pressure the
Bosnian Serbs to accept a ceasefire.
The Dayton Accord, which will be
formally signed in Paris on De-
cember 14, creates an united
Sarajevo under the control of the
Bosnian-Croat Federation. The
Bosnian government insisted upon
and won an open unified city. The
Bosnian Serbs wanted some parts
of the city to become part of the
new Serb Republic and fear that
the Dayton Accord will force long-
time Serb residents to leave.
Therefore, as most Americans,
including President Clinton’ and
Congress, debate the decision to
send 20,000U.S. soldiers to Bosnia

as part of the NATO peacekeeping
force under the command of Ameri-
can General George Joulwan, the
Bosnian Serb leadership intensi-
fies its rhetoric about Sarajevo. In
his first public appearance since
the announcement of the peace
accord, the Bosnian Serb military
leader General Ratko Mladic called
for a new solution for Sarajevo,

insisted that Sarajevan Serbs would |

never submit to Bosnian govern-
ment control, and declared ‘“‘we
cannot allow our people to come
under the rule of butchers.” His
comments, laced with criticism of
the deployment of NATO troops,
echoed sentiments expressed by
fellow indicted war criminal
Radovan Karadzic who suggested
that Sarajevo will become the next
Beirut, and those of Momcilo
Krasjisnik, President of the self-
styled Bosnian Serb parliament.
These statements foreshadow a
possible obstacle to the safety of
the NATO forces.

For every resident of Sarajevo
who believes the peace agreement
means a rebirth, a return to peace,
or simply “no more being afraid of
a bullet finding me or freezing on
the front line,” there is another

NOTES

Hormone levels may

dictate alcohol and drug use

LEXINGTON, KY — Think it’s just a coincidence that the hairiest
guy at the bars are always the most sober? Maybe not. Researchers
at the, University of Kentucky already knew that hormones trigger
bodily changes in students, but recent research indicates that they may
also influence whether they drink alcohol and smoke cigarettes or
marijuana.

UK psychiatrists found that high school girls who drink and
smoke have higher levels of the male hormone testosterone, which
increases impulsivity and risk-taking behavior, and the female hor-
mone estradiol than girls who don’t. Increased levels of estradiol have
been finked with breast cancer later in life as well as feelings of
depression and sadness in adolescents.

Male high school students who drink alchohol and smoke mari-
juana are likely to have high levels of testosterone as well. Students
with lots of a hair-growth hormone, though, are less likely than their
peers to smoke marijuana. This hormone drains their energy and,
researchers speculate, makes them less interested in experimentation.

It’s unknown, though, whether increased hormones lead to
substance abuse or if it’s the other way around.

The study examined 160 students at two Kentucky high scheols,
one rural.and urban. The students, most of whom were 16, answered
a survey and said whether they drank or smoked during the previous
year. Researchers then took blood from each student and analyzed it
for hormones.

Dr. Catherine Martin, the lead researcher, said the study could
help prevent substance abuse and potentially serious health problems
by identifying at-risk teens early.

Textbook on the Web

RALEIGH — To John Russ, seeing is believing.

That’s why the North Carolina State University engineering
professor says he created a multimedia textbook on the World Wide
Web for,his students.

The CD-ROM textbook, which serves as a study aid for students
at NC State and 25 other colleges nationwide, grew out of Russ’ own
classroom experiencé, in which he noticed how engineering students
in large introductory classes had some difficulty grasping the mate-
rial,

Soon, Russ began using computer simulations, graphics, and
animation in class to help illustrate his points. Still, for most of the
technical material, he had to resort to verbal explanations.

“One student said to me, ‘If these are such complex topics that
you can’t draw them on the board, how am I supposed to take notes
on them?’” Russ says.

That inspired Russ to develop a CD-ROM textbook. No longer
confined to explaining complex mechanical processes by drawing
illustrations on a chalkboard, Russ and other NCSU instructors can
use class time to answer questions and refine concepts knowing that
the students always have access to a technological tutor.

“We have a lot of information that we’ re trying to pump into [the
students] through the wrong conduit — their ears instead of their
eyes,” Russ says.

This year, Russ put his material — all 300 work problems, 700
movies, and 1,500 pages of text — on the WWW. In addition to
explanations of the included material, the Visualizations in Material
Space page has hundreds of animated examples, including a video
tour of a steel plant and moving graphics of a sledgehammer breaking |
various items. :

“It’s basically a better way for students to learn,” says Russ,
creating the team of NCSU students who helped with the site. “That’s
the whole idea.” ;

The Visualizations in Material Space page can be found at http:/
/vims.ncsu.edu.

-from College Press Service

who fears more genocide or perse-
cution. Sarajevan Serbs fear re-
prisals under the rule of the Mus-
lim-led government, and some
Muslims believe that once the
NATO troops depart, “the evil that
befell Yugoslavia will resurrect
itself again.” Statements such as
those by French President Chirac
who recently suggested that mea-
sures to protect the Bosnian Serbs
in Sarajevo should be added to the

Dayton Accord threaten the vi-
ability of the agreement. Never-
theless, the future of Sarajevo holds
great potential for furthering the
peace process, The city, inter-
mixed with Muslim mosques and
Orthodox churches, could, as it
grows, build social and cultural
bridges which supersede even the
most bitter ethnic divisions and
lead to a resumption of peoples’
lives.
