12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS 8 LIVING MONDAY, JANUARY 30, 1994

By Shayna Chazin

One of Thursday’ s Chill Chas-
ers brought two poets to read at
Main Street Books: Maureen Ryan
Griffin and Judy Goldman. Both
of these poets have recently pub-
lished books of their work.

Griffin read from her first pub-
lication, When The Leaves Are In
The Water. The selections were a
bittersweet mixture of the anger
and tenderness felt in familial rela-
tionships, between mother and
daughter, husband and wife.

Griffin possesses the keen in-
sight of being able to look back on
her childhood and appreciate the
sufferings of her mother’s own
struggle with many children and
little support. One poem entitled
What I Won't Tell Her recounts a
moment the poet shares with her
daughter:

At breakfast,
dreams

of white plumed horses, of
planting

orange day lilies in open fields.

I don’t tell her my dreams of

my mother smashing my

china

tea set, of having no clothes

she shares

Chill Chaser poetry reading
touches listeners, leaves them wanting more

to fit, as if I change sizes
nightly.

Along those same sensitive
tones, Goldman’s writing showed
more craft, touched with unique
metaphors to give her audience
vivid close-up pictures through

. which to see an event.

In the title poem of her book,
Wanting to Know the End,
Goldman alludes to the delicacy of
the moment her friend commits
suicide by writing, “Lizards on the
bark of a tree / know not to pry.”

Goldman pointed out to us
that an integral part of poetry is
reading it slowly, taking each word
in one at a time.

In her work this is especially
true, for each piece of vision is
connected to a human event. Ina
poem about a blind person seeing
in his dreams, Night Vision, she
knits many images together: the
threading of a needle, her mother
turning towards her, her fatherread-
ing anewspaper, asomersault, then
a phonograph needle playing her
name over and over. It’s a sooth-
ing thing to hear, as those images
slide through your mind one more
time.

The face of a poet.

WALL OS ==

Photo by Brandon Clarke

Blockbuster from page 10

impaired teenager. Johnny Depp
plays Gilbert, who is living with
his 500 pound mother and going
nowhere in a small Midwestern
town. This film provides hilari-
ous insights into the local drama
of a place where not much hap-

Tammy's top movie picks

pens, as Gilbert takes drastic mea-
sures to get out.
1. The Mission. My favorite of all

time. The haunting score by Ennio .

Moriccone makes this an extremely
powerful movie. In this account of
imperialism in sixteenth century
South America, Robert DeNiro and
Jeremy Irons are priests struggling

with the sins of racism, greed, and
their own human weaknesses. The
great thing about this movie is
that it is far from pious. The
devastating beauty of the final
scene implicates all the characters
in one of the most shameful chap-
ters in the history of Western civi-
lization.

Dear Terry Buffington,

The Accelerated Learning Program.......
N "
‘Someone WhO Cares
is a series of four “on target" workshops for Davidson students who are looking
for ways to be more efficient and effective learners.
takes only 75 minutes of your time per session. Dear Terry,

meets in the C ie Uni IG $C b
Mondays 7:00 - 8:15 p.m.

I think one of my professors hates me. Every time I approach
him, he looks at me like lama total moron. I try to be intelligent and
“on the ball” in class, but whenever I make a comment he just looks
over my head or to the person on either side of me. This professor
is very influential among the faculty and I worry that he might really
dislike me, and could threaten other professors’ opinions of me.
How can I improve this relationship?

Sincerely,

Teacher’s Pet Peeve

Professor Shireen Carroll

January 30 IMPROVED WRITING: How to make a good

paper (in any subject) even better

CO-SPONSOR: RUSK HOUSE
7

BUILDING RAPPORT with FACULTY:
How to approach faculty in class and afterwards

Professor Clark Ross

February 6

CO-SPONSOR: PHI DELTA THETA Dear Peeve,

You have to consider the possibility that you are a total moron.
If, after taking this into consideration, you find that you are not
lacking upstairs, then try raising your hand before making com-
ments. If you do this already, then perhaps you should stop making
| comments altogether.

Sponsored by the Office of Academic Affairs

If you find that even after an extended period of silence this
as rof is still givin the shaft, try updating your wardrob
AV/e) l u al t e e I 1 ial Wo rk So ae hairstyle. Ie oe aie a zal on aitfereit Golor
lipstick. If you are a man, tuck your shirt in. Hitting on the professor
= 4 = Idn’t hurt.
L a t 1 iat A Im e 16 1 C a E xX Pp e Ir 1 e n C e - PS: ke you really are a moron, by “hitting” I do not mean
“beating.”
A Simple Formula, But One That Makes A Difference ree :
Invest in your future Saree health and environmental
a Va S 2 jriceroumid projects. College credit and oo :
ealth volunteer in La ; ; : .
America. Develop leadership, Bo ae, oe ee canta Are all of y our favorite
organizational and cross- ESTO ce mea ane i d Wwitiec
ee eee | ing opportunity. passtimes and activities
while focusing on public | Application deadline is March 1. covered in
“7 Mee, The Davidsonian?
pee pe. If not, write an article about it.
5618 Star Lane Call John or Jacob at -6156 for
Houston, TX 77057 2
more info.

