6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Week in Washington

Powell not to seek office

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Gen. Colin Powell announced
last Wednesday that he will not
seek election to the presidency and
will join the Republican party.

Ata midafternoon news con-
ference in Virginia, Powell ruled
out running for elective office.
“This was not the right thing to do
at this time,” said the 58-year-old
retired army general. Despite warm
popular support for Powell, re-
flected in recent polls and his Oc-
tober tour to promote his book, My
American Journey, Powell con-
cluded that the presidency would
require “a passion and commit-
ment that, despite my every effort,
I do not have for political life.”

Confidants of Powell report
that he had nearly decided to run
two weeks ago. But after an ago-
nizing process of weighing his
options and consulting with close
friends, Powell reversed himself
last Monday night. His cautious
nature simply could not be per-
suaded that his military skills could
translate into success on the cam-
paign trail.

His family was perhaps the
strongest reason why Powell de-
cided not to run. “It was family
first,” said Richard Armitage, who
worked closely with Powell at the
Pentagon. Powell’s wife, Alma,
was openly concerned about dis-
ruption to their family life and the
political attacks that would be

aimed at Powell as a black candi-
date. Those close to Powell specu-
late that he did not want to subject
himself and his family to the con-
stant travel and fundraising that a
modern presidential campaign re-
quires.

Armitage also believes that
Powell was not infected with the
passion for the job that a presiden-
tial contender must have to per-
form well on the campaign trail.
“Colin Powell going out and ask-
ing people for money. . . wasn’t
attractive.” Powell also worried
that his warm popular following
would quickly diminish after he
would be forced to answer tough
questions on specific issues. Also,
money flows more readily to can-
didates with more extreme ideo-
logical views, while Powell is a
centrist.

Powell’s withdrawal raises
troubling questions about the
American political system. While
Powell’s personal integrity and
moderate views drew a warm re-
ception from voters, the intensity
and intrusiveness of amodern cam-
paign discouraged him from run-
ning. Several other possible Re-
publican candidates, including
former Vice President Dan Quayle,
former defense secretary Dick
Cheney, and former Housing sec-
retary Jack Kemp, have also de-
cided not to run because of the
harshness of campaigning and the
immense sums needed to win.
Some experts believe that the po-

litical process deliberately turns
away people like Powell who
should be running for office, while
others hold that campaigning natu-
rally weeds out people who are not
prepared for the demands of the
presidency. Nevertheless, Shawn
Barney, president of the student
association at Howard University,
said Powell’s departure “speaks to
the difficulty of the task.”

While Powell’s departure may
increase voter dissatisfaction with
the current field, the campaign loses
a factor of uncertainty. President
Clinton will certainly benefit, since
he loses hypothetical races against
Powell in national polls. With
Powell out of the race, more mod-
erate swing voters may be more:
likely to vote for Clinton in a
Clinton-Dole matchup. However,
Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS), the Repub-
lican front-runner for the nomina-
tion, was also relieved. Powell
was the only Republican candi-
date who presented a serious chal-
lenge to his leadership.

Interestingly, Powell has de-
clared that he will join the Repub-
lican party instead of remaining
politically independent. “I will act
and work as a Republican in the
months ahead, trying to broaden
the appeal of the party.” Even
though he will not be on the ticket,
Powell’s leadership and stature
could be a significant asset.
Sources include: November 8 of
The Wall Street Journal and No-
vember 8 of The Washington Post.

Dean Rusk Program

‘Russta’s future unclear

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

So what’s going on in Russia?
What ever happened to our former
communist foes? With the excep-
tion of Chechnya anda few middle
page articles about Russia’s role in
Bosnia, the press has had better
things to worry about than the
U.S.’s former superpower rival.

It is hard to imagine that less
than a decade ago the United States
was trying to beat the USSR to the
magical 100 mark (how many times
we could blow up the world). But
there has been a lot going on in
Russia since then. As one of the
most populous countries in the
world, the second largest nuclear
power, and as an incredible poten-
tial for economic growth and US
investment, Russia still is news.

Several big things are going
on in Russia right now. Probably
the single most important event in
recent weeks has been Russia’s
agreementto join the NATO peace-
keeping force that will be set up
after peace in Bosnia is achieved.
This is a major break-through.

A Russian presence in the
peace keeping force would greatly
increase its legitimacy by balanc-
ing the force with some pro-Serb
troops. Russia has supported the
Serbs throughout the conflict and
soa Russian contingent to the force
would alleviate the impression that
itis simply a Western pro-Bosnian
government contingent.

The agreement hinges on a

deal that negotiators worked out to
allow Russia to save face. The
major concern on the part of the
Russians was that they did not want
their troops under the control of a
NATO general.

The way the current agree-
ment is set up, Russian forces will
still receive orders from NATO
command, but those orders will be
given by Russian generals. This
allows Russia to feel that is still
maintains control of its troops while
not disrupting the vital centraliza-
tion of command required in a
peacekeeping effort.

The other major news coming
from Russia is that Russia’s elec-
tions are coming up and it is begin-
ning to appear as if Yeltzin is not
going to be able to run for a second
term (if he lives that long). Russia
is still in the process of trying to
stabilize and define its government.

A week ago Boris Yeltzin was
taken again to the hospital because
of an insufficient supply of oxy-
genated blood to the heart. This
marks the third time in three months
that Yeltzinhas been hospitalized.

Yeltzin has been the glue hold-
ing things together since the fall of
the Soviet Union, and many fear
that if power changes either by a

vote or by Yeltzin’s death, Russia _

will fall apart. With the Russian
communists leading the public-
opinion polls and the possibility of
a coalition forming between Gen.
Alexander Lebed (the patriotic and
most popular figure in Russian
politics) and the communist party,

Russia’s future is anything but clear

If Lebed’s Congress of Rus-
sian Communities does join the
communist in a coalition, an alli-
ance which still has several ob-
stacles to overcome before it can
be realized, they would control the
government. And one has to won-
der what the effects a nationalistic
communist government would
have on Russia and the rest of the
world.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1995

NOTES

Raising the dead?

Taylorsville - Even though Josh Simms’ relatives have given up
their prayer vigil to resurrect the Alexander County teen and
bury him, family members still believe he’ll rise from the grave
any day, their minister said Monday.

Pastor David Sipe said Simms’ father and grandmother had
planned all along to bury the 19-year-old if members of the Life
of Victory Full Gospel Church were not able to bring him back
to life through prayer.

Simms, 19, was killed in a car crash Oct. 30. He was buried
outside Taylorsville Sunday in a private service.

“We didn’t get the victory, but the family said they were
still strong in the belief that he’d come up out of the ground,”
Sipe said. “They would have felt a whole lot better if he had been
raised up the last couple of days, but they are not getting down.
Their faith in God has not been shaken.”

Jack Simms, the youth’s father, has refused all requests for
interviews.

But Dianne Simms, the youth’s stepmother, said family
members believe that Josh did not want to come back to life
immediately because of all the attention.

“A lot of it is their grief, but a lot of it is just their beliefs,”
said Dianne Simms, who is not a member of the church. “They
really believe he’s not dead, just asleep.”

Sipe and his congregation maintain that a literal interpreta-
tion of the Bible shows prayer can be used to cure to illnesses and
restore life.

Last week, family and church members prayed, spoke in
tongues, wrote “Josh Will Return” on mirrors and laid hands. on
the body of the dead youth for six days in hopes of bringing him
back to life.

Sipe said some ministers and Alexander County residents
heaped scorn on church members for their unusual show of faith.

“We would have buried this boy sooner, but it was difficult
to find a grave site,” he said. “Some people wouldn’t sell this
family a lot when all this hitthe media. They think we are crazy.
But we are just standing on.the word of God.”

News organizations from as far away as Los Angeles have
reported the story of the vigil and the tabloid TV show “Inside
Edition” has contacted Simms’ father.

-Taken from the Wednesday, November 9, 1995 edition of the
Charlotte Observer

892-4794
Sadler Square
Davidson

ee ce cs ce ces ce ee ces eens es meee cee ees ce es ee ee ees

Davino's Nightly Specials

Monday:

Chicken Parmigiana $8.95

Domestic Beers $1.50

Tuesday:

Pasta Night:

Dinner for Two only $11.95

Import Beers $2.00

Wednesday:

All-you-can-eat Pizza and
Spaghetti $4.95

Pitchers $3.95 & Mugs $1.00

Thursday:

Jumbo Stuffed Shells $7.95

Glass of wine $1.50

Bring this coupon in for 15 % OFF ENTIRE BILL

