AARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1995

\

What was so great about the 80s? Not the hair.
Not the music really, either. But that hasn’t
stopped its revival. In fact, the superficial lyrics
and bouncy pop beats have been working their
way back into mainstream consciousness. It’s like
a twentysomething crisis — relive your preteen
years! Shallowness is on the up and up, and cut-
downs like, “That’s sooo retro,” have transcended
into compliments. Davidson has already seen the
influx of 80s fever. The Bangels (top right) did
play the 900 Room in ‘85.

Who’s next? Duran Duran?

Photos courtesy of Quips and Cranks

KK eliving the SOs

_ Last decade’s
pop culture re-emerges

By Nick PAuL & MIKE Mica
Staff Writers

Around 15 years ago, that illustrious happy-go-lucky period in
America known only as the “Eighties” ushered in a whole new brand of
bright, semi-sophisticated, and utterly strange movies, parties, drinks,
drinking parties, drugs, party drugs, and most of all, music. As students
of a median age of 19 or 20, you will remember this type of music as the
very first popular music that you listened to. No one has ever claimed
it as particularly good music, but hey, you were young, the punchbowl

* was spiked, why not just enjoy it? So you did. Of course, you didrit

enjoy it so much as to actually miss it .

Now, however, not only are radio stations playing more 80s music,
but dance clubs, which are instrumental in determining public opinion in
the music industry on a broader scope, are also dedicating much of their
time to 80s revival. The Baja, a popular club in Charlotte, had an entire
night dedicated to the 80s just last week. This phenomenon is not
uncommon for dance clubs recently. I asked Mike Miga, a DJ on the up
and coming WALT, for an answer.

“You go into a music store,” Mike said in preface to his argument,
“and what do you see? First there are the wall to wall rows of grunge and
alternative with all of those monosyllabic names like Hole, Coil, Suck,
Blur, Blow, Wail, each with its own guitarist, bassist, drummer, and
angst screaming idol.” Then, Mike went on, you see the other side,
Phish, the Dead and all of the bands whose focus is primarily on the mass
consumption of marijuana. Mike explained that what was needed was
something to fill the large gap in the middle for music that is not too hard,
not too soft, and just funky enough to be interesting.

Eighties music has been around for a while of course, but it has only
recently been rediscovered on the popular scene. Just as present day
alternative became popular with its own small segment Sunday nights on
MTV, today’s MTV, which is now dominated by those same alternative
artists, is returning to having small segments of 80s videos. Whether
they simply appear for brief periods of Beavis and Buttheador have their
own show, they are present and are paid homage as having their own
place in modern music.

Let’s not forget that 80s pop rock is the seed that modern popular
alternative has grown out of. MTV — that very institution which is so
influential on the charts — started with a song called “Video killed the
Radio Star” by the Buggles. The song and what it stands for has had a
drastic influence on the music we hear today.

At a glance it is difficult to determine exactly what 80s music is
coming back. The line between bands like REM that have been around
all along and musicians like David Bowie, Boy George, and Cyndi
Lauper, all of whom appear to be making a comeback, is very thin. The
metamorphosis that some of these artists have undergone is enormous.

See Breakfast Club on page 12
