THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 1995 7

~—6 Che: ~ Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors

Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
MANDY CURTIS JOHN COPENHAVER KATHERINE HASH
ROBERT RAMSAY
Asst. Arts & Living Editor Operations Manager
Associate Editors TERESA WHITE JOSHUA BUCHANAN
WILLIAM ROBERT
RUSS TARVER Sports Editor Advertising Managers
MATT PITZER MEREDITH BENKE
News Editor ANDY BOSWELL
MATTHEW EIRICH Photography Editor
. ROB KOSICKI Circulation Manager
Assistant News Editor TED PENICK
JOANNA JOHNSON Assistant Photography Editor
oicoeganly BRANDON CLARKE Editorial Cartoonist
Opinions Editor CHRIS MOORE
JEFF KENT

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

GD ALENDA- LUX: WHAT: THE-FP GD |

——

—_—

..- ONE DAY, A GIANT CHICKEN siTS
ASTRIDE OVR VENERABLE DOME,

AROUVS\NG AN ANGRY OLD MAw
CHAMBERS FROM SUPERNATURAL SLEEP.

_ Twenty-one.
We’re legal.

The U.S. News and World Report yearly college ranking is not the end-all be-

all evaluation of college quality. We said it was last year, but that was because we were
eighth. Now that we’re a mature twenty-one we can convince ourselves that nothing has

changed — we can utilize the convenient and inherent self-deception of adulthood. .
“Davidson is the same school it was a year ago,” we clamor. “Those fools atU.S.
News don’t know what they’re talking about. They can’t qualify the Davidson experi-
ence!”
Look at what John Kelton said: “This doesn’t reflect any negative change in the
quality of a Davidson education.”

And Bob Williams believes we dropped because so many people are coming here
and there aren’t enough full-time professors to cover the overflow. We're great and

people love us!

While the ranking does taint the perception of Davidson amongst the masses, it does
not necessarily reflect a real backslide. However, the ratings do give us motivation to

focus on what U.S. News perceives as our problem areas.

Like money. One of the categories in which we fell dramatically is ‘Financial
Resources.” This is odd, considering the five million dollar gift we received from Mr.
Baker two years ago, and the five thousand dollar increase (at least) of Davidson’s price
tag over the last four years. Where does that money go?

We do not question the wise use of funds at this college, but the violent tuition
increases do force us to wonder how our resources could be less “rankable” than last year.

Davidson still meets more of its need-based financial aid than most other comparable
schools, But other than that, we do not know exactly what the money at this place is used
for. The self-study, hopefully, will clue us in to some of the financial workings of this
institution that we have a right to know about.

In some areas, though, U.S. News shows its intrinsic fallibility.

For example, what’s this “Faculty Resources” stuff? True, because of the size of the
past two classes, more visiting professors are employed here, but surely Mark
Csikszentmihalyi has as much to teach us as Trent Foley. U.S. News may be looking
closely, but it doesn’t sit in the classroom. It doesn’t know the faculty like we do. It just
looks at the numbers.

And so, seemingly, we have an average faculty. Seemingly.

Another example of the ranking’s unreliability is that it does not consider the
appropriateness of the college for its students. Unless the magazine conducted interviews
with a majority of students, how could it know whether a student here would be happier
at Swarthmore. Yet, the ranking implies that Davidson students would rather attend some
place like Amherst or Bryn Mawr.

Truth is, most of us could be happy in a number of places. But we chose this college
for a reason, the least of which was a bloody magazine article.

Earlier, we were clamoring that one cannot qualify the Davidson experience, Really,
all this ranking crap comes down to is experience versus perception; does the perception
equal the reality? In the case of financial resources, perhaps. In the case of faculty
resources, no way.

So what if we’re twenty-one this year? Has anything really changed? Isn’ tit possible
we’ll be fourth next year, or thirtieth? Isn’t it possible the perception of Davidson can
change while the experience remains constant?

Yes. The ranking is a tool. It shows us our perceptual weak points; points we
definitely can work on; points we already knew existed. But it is not the Bible, or the
Koran, or Jerry Garcia. Not something with a cult following. Itis an opinion, and we have
ours.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the fall term by the students of
Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,
P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
Tates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

The power to speak

To the editors,

When I was a freshman
and visited my first SGA
meeting, I found speaking to
the senate very intimidating.
This should not be so. That
is why, inthe last SGA meet-
ing, I proposed a change that
was both accepted and em-
braced by all its members.
This change benefits all stu-
dents.

Now, before the close

of each meeting, there is a
time in which all nonsenators

may address the senate.
Whatever one wishes to say
is appropriate. Visitors may
wish to comment on meet-
ing topics, share their own
personal concerns, or even
just say “hello!” .

This power to speak is
not a new thing. You have
always had it. I, along with
the other senators, urge you
to use this power. Talk with
us, both in and out of meet-
ings. With your ideas, we,
together with the faculty,

staff, and trustees, can cre-
ate in Davidson an even bet-
ter college environment.

The SGA is nota secret
organization. All of you are
always invited to attend
meetings that are held at 9:00
p.m., Tuesdays in the Union
Conference Room.

Come see us and work
with us. Our job is to serve
you.

Sincerely,
Matthew Hobbie ‘98

Leaner, meaner Bill

To the editors,

Katie McKelvie’s sly
reference to my weight in
her editorial last week, while
humorous, has no basis in
fact. Since returning to
Davidson, I have dropped
three pounds, two ounces,
due mostly to the walk from
the senior apartments and a
heated Nintendo Golf rivalry
with two of my roommates.

As to the allegation that
I make a big splash, Ms.
McKelvie is ignorant of my
inability to dive. In fact, the
last time I actually swam
(rather than waded) was dur-
ing the swim test, when I
closed my eyes during the
backstroke and hit the side
wall.

Isuggest Ms. McKelvie
take a look at the new Bill

Gullan (I sit next to her in
colloquium). She will see
not the ridiculous ranger of
rotundity to which she is
accustomed buta lean, mean,
dancing machine ready for
anything.

Appalled,

Bill Gullan '96
P.S. If anyone drives by me
please pick me up.

Jungle golf course

To the editors,

What’s the story with
Covington Golf Course?
The famed three hole course
on campus is in terrible con-
dition. I’m not asking that it
look like St. Andrew’s, but
the grass on the greens looks
like a Chia Pet. The course
is simply unplayable.

I understand if we can
no longer keep the course
up, but if that’s the case then
stop doing a lackadaisical
maintenance job and simply
use the land for something
else. Ideally, the greens and
fairways could be kept in
decent shape so the students
could take advantage of the

course. I love to play there
for an hour or soon Saturday
afternoons, but not when I
need a machete to clear a
way to the hole. Basically,
either do the job right, or
don’t do it at all.

Sincerely,
. Jack Slosson 96’

The Union will now be providing a
telephone information service to keep us on
top of all Union activities.

It's called the Union Hotline.

Dial 2579-*-*-52144,

SA aS
