8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spike Lee’s Clockers paints a
grim picture of inner city youth

By Ep AcLE
Movie Critic

Clockers is a disturbing film.
Director Spike Lee has seen many
of his films over the past decade
open to critical acclaim. Many
film critics have called him the
leader of the recent African-Ameri-
can wave of films that has come
into its own over the course of the
past decade. Critics of Lee, how-
ever, often point out that he has
never made a film dealing with one
of the inner city’s more devastat-
ing problems: drugs. Clockers is
Lee’s decisive answer to these crit-
ics.

The film follows one 19-year-
old “clocker” (slang for a drug
dealer), Strike (Mekhi Phifer), as
he tries to stay one step ahead of
the law. Daryl Adams, a one-time
associate of Strike, has been shot
dead in front of the fast food res-
taurant where he served as the night
manager. Strike’s brother, Victor
(scene-stealing Isaiah Washing-
ton), has confessed to the murder.
The detective in charge of thé in-
vestigation, Rocco Klein (Harvey
Keitel), does not believe Victor’s
confession. As Klein continues
his investigation it becomes clear
that Victor might just have been
covering up for his little brother.
The closer Klein gets to the truth,

the faster Strike’s world falls apart.

Before becoming a film,
Clockers was a best-selling novel
by Richard Price with its focus on
Rocco. Lee has changed that fo-
cus, however, by cutting out many
of the book’s subplots and making
Strike the main character. This
vision works.

Strike is a fascinating figure, a
man-child forced to grow up too
fast. He constantly plays with an
elaborate train set he has set up in
his apartment, using it to transport
him to worlds far from the grim
realities of the street outside. One
disturbing montage inter-cuts shots
of Strike playing with his train set
with shots of desperate drug ad-
dicts buying the poison on the
streets outside.

Strike’s relationship with a
young boy, Tyrone, is at the emo-
tional center of Clockers. Strike
affectionately refers to Tyrone as
his little brother. One upsetting
scene demonstrates the lessons
Strike is giving the boy: as Tyrone
watches, Strike demonstrates how
to cut cocaine, shows off his gun,
and tells him that sometimes it’s
necessary to “pop a cap” in some-
one.

Looking at Tyrone the movie-:
goer can’t help but see a younger
reflection of how Strike must have
appeared as a child — before the

strong pressures of the streets out-
side claimed his soul.

Overall this is a good, but
flawed, film. Lee uses a music
score that tends to distract the
viewer from what transpires on
screen. Clockers would have been
much fresher had it come out be-
fore the spate of Boyz‘n the Hood
and Menace II Society.

There are certain touches,
however, that make this film work.
The opening drug exchange, filmed
in a jumpy style reminiscent of
work done in reality-based shows
such as “‘Cops,” succeeds in draw-
ing in the viewer. All the interro-
gation scenes are shot in a hazy,
dream-like style that seems to strip
away the character’s tough facades
to reveal their true, frightened
selves. Keitel, Phifer, and all the
other actors do fine work.

The most thought-provoking
piece of Clockers, however, is its
first shot. Strike stands in the fore-
ground, framed by the American
flag waving behind him. It’s al-
most as if Lee is saying that the
future of our nation is typified by
desperate men such as Strike. _

__ This is a grim vision made all
the more terrifying when consider-
ing that we’re all (as Rocco must
eventually come to terms with) at
least partly responsible for the hell
that we’ ve created.

DON’T FORGET ABOUT THE PHOTOGRAPHY CONTEST! ENTRIES ARE DUE
THE WEDNESDAY FOLLOWING FALL BREAK. CALL -2148 FOR MORE INFO.

plasma!

today.

with extra $$$.

New donors earn $30

1995 to provide you

Visit our friendly, mod-
ern center and earn cash
while helping others.

You can bank
on us!

Earn up to $200 a month
by donating life-saving

1511 Central Avenue at Pecan, Charlotte, NC 28205

333-0335

Valid ID with Social Security number required.
M-Th 6:30am-9:00pm F 6:30am-8:00pm Sa 7:30am-6:00pm Su 7:30am-4:30pm

@®

Mary Baxter, Asher Wood, and Liz Sale krave koffee.*°?"”

ARTS & LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1995

JUMPIN’ JAVA

Fall television
forecast looks bleak

By EmiLy SMITH
Staff Writer

If the only television you’ ve
been watching is in Chambers Lan-
guage Lab, don’t feel as if you are
being deprived of any promising
network smash.

Fall premiers will pack the
listings this week, and a total of 35
new series are due out by mid-
October. Unfortunately, very few
are even worth mentioning, includ-
ing several copycats of the last
season hit Friends. Although the
show’s plethora of followers can
expect to be captivated by theclever
dialogue and trend-setting cast, the
wanna-be acts leave much to be
desired.

Another theme reoccurring in
the fall line up is sci-fi suspense.
For fans of The X-Files, FOX will
release another thriller titled
Strange Luck, and American
Gothic will air on CBS. In the
sitcom department, 26 new shows
will serve up warmed over laughs.
Don’t bother watching Pursuit of

Happiness, Hudson Street, or Can’t
Hurry Love, all making their debut
this week. On the tube last week,
Melrose Place proved to be a ma-
jor disappointment (included for
those still helplessly hooked). In-
stead of the infamous fashion di-
vas, viewers saw the cast clad in
bandages and somewhat less than
realistic bruises. As usual the bat-
tling bitches and the stupid studs
bickered relentlessly and acted out
a story line only slightly less ri-
diculous than they are.

You can still count on the re-
turning favorite Seinfeld, or try out
the next mega-hit law saga called
Murder One. Rumors suggest that
the sophisticated show will focus
on a major L.A. murder case
throughout the first season. (Not to
worry — Kato is not the guest
star!) As for the rest, the season is
lacking in any slightly intelligible
material.

So, go outside, jog, play
flickerball, or watch DCTV. Hell,
maybe even study. You won’t
miss anything on the tube.

Jump

‘from page 8

Krause gave a concert using acoustic guitars. An estimated 120 people
were there to get at taste of the “new and improved” coffee house. Jeni
Hankins, Chairperson for the Outpost Committee, was encouraged by
this and hopes Jumpin’ Java’s success will. continue throughout the year.

The schedule of events for this semester includes at least two more
bands (Negative Utopia played Saturday night), several open micro-
phone poetry readings (every Tuesday night), and other numerous
opportunities for students to show their talent. All students are welcome
to come to Jumpin’ Java and play the instrument of their choice (or sing).
Don’t feel counted out if music isn’t your thing. Many SHS come to
enjoy the atmosphere and to socialize.

The Outpost is also a great place to study when events have not been
planned. On Mondays, Dr. McCarthy has a German table in Jumpin’
Java. The Outpost also serves as a welcome alternative from the green
carpeted floors of Little Library and the stark walls of Chambers which
may only facilitate stress and anxiety. After gleaning the many benefits
of studying, the Outpost is a place to meet new people and enjoy arelaxed
atmosphere.

Hankins stresses the importance of not stereotyping the coffee
house as a place where only a certain group of people convene. The
Outpost is open to anyone and “while it’s not a place that everyone will
enjoy being, Jumpin’ Java should not be automatically dismissed. The
surroundings are laid back, and everyone is welcome to enjoy the
atmosphere.” In order toreceive more information on Jumpin’ Java, call
the Union at -2140.

Write for The Davidsonian
Call John at -2148.

