THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 27, 1995 . 9

Many elements of the Con-
tract with America have passed the
House and are awaiting action in
Senate committees. These mea-
sures are stalled much as any past
“fundamental” change has been;
Congress is a deliberative body,
not a blunt revolutionary instru-
ment. Government was meant to
change slowly and modify new
proposals. Slow progress on the
Contract should be expected.

There are two economic ele-
ments of the Contract that are trou-
bling: the failed balanced budget

amendment, which may be recalled -

toa vote later this year, and tax cuts
for various groups. Both propos-
als are political gimmicks that do
not have economic merit.

The most foolish idea in the
Contract is the balanced budget
amendment. If passed and adopted

Flaws in

David Santschi

the Contract

create a dilemma if the budget were
not balanced. If this. occurred,

. Congress would be brought under

federal court oversight. The fed-
eral courts, whose justices are ap-
pointed for life, would then design
a budget to force Congress to com-
ply with the amendment. Basi-
cally, an unaccountable oligarchy
of federal judges would rewrite
and balance the federal budget,
which is the responsibility of
elected Congress. The federal gov-
ernment would be prosecuting it-
self, and one branch of govern-
ment would be doing the job of
another.

Despite its packaging, the
amendment is designed to put off
hard choices until the next elec-
tion. The amendment provides no
mechanism for balancing the bud-
get. Congress would be no closer
to balancing the budget if the
amendment passed than it would
be before passage. Setting goals
without creating means other than
court intervention to achieve them
is foolish. The amendment would
also allow “estimates” of revenues
and expenditures to be used in bud-
get calculations, leading to more
“voodoo economics.” Finally,
nowhere is it written that the bud-

get cannot be balanced. The bud-
getcan be balanced whenever Con-
gress governs responsibly, as in
the 170 years of this country when
the budget was usually balanced.
Political will, not an amendment,
is needed to control federal spend-
ing.

The second folly in the Con-
tract is tax cut proposals. The
House has adopted cuts of $105
billion for families, $45 billion for
businesses, and $15 billion for
wealthier Social Security recipi-
ents. This is exactly what Con-
gress should not be doing: reduc-
ing revenue while the five-year

deficit remains at about $290 bil-
lion. Majority Leader Armey as-
sures Americans that the cuts will
be offset by spending reductions.
But based on the past behavior of
Congress, an equal tradeoff be-
tween the two is unlikely.

These cuts are also skewed
toward business, which hardly
needs more corporate welfare, and
the wealthy. The $500 child tax
credit would apply to families
making up to $250,000 a year,
hardly subsistence living. Busi-
ness already receives large tax
breaks at all levels of government
in the forms of price supports, sub-
sidies, grants, and tax credits. No
mention should be made of tax
cuts for anyone for any reason be-
fore the budget is at a surplus again.
It will not be painless to hold taxes

at their present levels and make

by the states, it would mandate a
balanced federal budget. This
sounds fairly reasonable. But if
the amendment were adopted, it
would set a dangerous precedent
for amending the Constitution. In
the past, the Constitution has been
amended mainly to ensure civil -
and voting rights and to reshape
procedures. Never, except for the
failed 18th Amendment, has the
Constitution been amended to seek
a specific policy objective. Bills
and laws achieve policy objectives;
constitutions are only broad frame-
works that set guidelines for gov-
ernment operation. Constitutions
should protect rights and set pro-
. cedure but never ensure a specific
outcome. Congress must have to-
tal discretion over spending.

The amendment would also

WELCOME To
ny: THE

CONTRACT

WH

ERICA

as hie
—_

ns 4a

yet

cuts in entitlements, but governing
is not always easy. Tax cuts are an
ill-considered gesture that ignore
economic reality.

These are two examples of
how Congress seeks to avoid re-
sponsibility for economic prob-
lems. Eliminating deficit spend-
ing should be the first priority for

‘Congress, yet there is little evi-
dence of real progress toward this
goal. As I mentioned ina previous
article, a flat cut in every item in
the budget, including Social Secu-
rity, would provide a real mecha-
nism for reducing the deficit. Law-

S2OUNTS TORM BNNGNLL AS C2LNSMISO

S makers would not have to cut any

items at all. Eventually funding
crunches would provide incentives
to eliminate programs and take a
serious look at our national priori-
ties.

Kelly Tharrington

Costume party or reality?

Until now, I have had no reason to
define my view of feminism. I believed in
equality between men and women, but the
subject of feminism was distant to me. I
would not have called myself a feminist. I
saw how those who did were shunned. They
were considered troublemakers who just
wanted something to complain about. Re-
cently, I had cause to rethink this and to
define my beliefs.

As a Davidson College student, Iwas
shocked and appalled by the number of male
students who believe men are better suited
for the work place and by the number of
female students who go along with this
mentality. I came to Davidson believing I
would be surrounded by some of the most
intelligent and forward-minded people. I
learned quickly that intelligence does not
imply open-mindedness. I was inundated

by comments like “once my wife has kids,
she will never have more than a part time
job.” Ilearned to accept this because every-
one is entitled to an opinion.

I began contemplating my own beliefs,
though, and even raised my hand when one
of my professors asked, “How many of you
consider yourself a feminist?” I had admit-
ted my feminist views but still did not under-
stand the entirety of what this meant. I
became more confident in stating that women
have not reached an equal position with men
in the work place, and that the United States
is overall a patriarchal society. I met little
strong disagreement. Most people respected
my right to an opinion as I had respected
theirs -- until I crossed the line. I refused an
invitation to the “Pimp and Ho’” party at one
of the fraternities, where the object was for
each brother to invite three women that
dressed up like prostitutes while he dressed
as their pimp.

To many, my refusal was a blatant
attempt to disrupt the fun of a group of
college students. I had only discussed my
reason for not going with my roommate, my
hall counselor, and three friends. I simply
told my date that I could not go, without
giving a reason. I was making a stand for
myself. However, I was not allowed to
avoid the party quietly. I was shunned by
my friends who chose to attend and whose
conversations centered around what they
were going to wear. If I mentioned that I
turned down a date to the party, they rolled
their eyes and shot disapproving glances
across the table.

I was confused and angered by the
backlash I received. I was told “the party is
only being done for fun.” I was confused by
the fact that a group of women with so much

ambition and intelligence could allow them-
selves to play the part of a prostitute for the
night. It was not a simple costume party. I

watched many of the women pull down their

spandex skirts or uncomfortably cross their

arms over their chests as they ran in heels to"
catch up to their date, who paraded among

his friends, proud of his work. One woman

was told by an overly affectionate man that

he normally does not act that way. Still,

most women who attended said they had a

good time. I did not understand how so

many women could use the rights that women

before them had won, and then conform to

such sexist attitudes. I did not understand

why so many women were afraid to run the

risk of being called a feminist.

It is easy for women such as Cathy
Young to cite campus studies showing that
“most college women are quite confident of
their ability to succeed in the work place and
to combine family and career.” But, when
“radical feminists seek to subordinate life to
ideology,” Young calls them “vigilant watch-
dogs on the alert for signs of sexism.” This
is the core of the problem. As Paula Kamen
writes, “Feminism is radical. It overturns
tradition and age-old notions of women’s
proper place in society.” A change in atti-
tude would concede that women are truly
equal to men. Proof of this attitude is not in
statistics showing the increasing numbers of
women in the work force or their wages.
This attitude reveals itself in such events as
“Pimp and Ho’” parties.

Even if women and men were at the
same power and pecuniary level in the work
place, even if the same number of men as
women stayed home to care for their chil-
dren, we cannot say that there is equality
between men and women as long as men
throw “Pimp and Ho’” parties.
