THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 25, 1 995

SGA and tea and crumpets

The SGA will be sponsoring a continental breakfast for parents
and students on Saturday morning of Parents’ Weekend. The
breakfast is meant to give parents an opportunity to meet
members of the SGA and other students. The breakfast will take
place before a faculty/administration panel discussion at 10
a.m. While some senators are doubtful that many parents will
attend, SGA leadership is confident that parents of freshmen are
especially eager to meet the SGA. Two hundred dollars was
appropriated to fund the event.

Cleanliness is .., the newest priority for RLO

The age old question which vexed Davidson students, “Why is
there no soap in the bathrooms?” has been wiped clean away.
This week, the RLO began installing soap dispensers in the
bathrooms on residents halls. Davidson students will be more
squeaky clean than ever. (See related RLO note below.)

Committee chairs approved

Freshman Class President Lucy Sherman was unanimously
approved to help organize the Phone-A-Thon in February.
Traditionally, this is the job of the Freshman Class President.
Sophomore Senators Wesley Hart and Matthew Hobie were
unanimously approved as co-chairs of the Public Relations
Committee. The committee is responsible for hanging SGA
flyers, maintaining the SGA bulletin board, posting the SGA
seconds on residents halls, and working with The Davidsonian.
The committee has “the ability to be one of the most important
committees,” says Vice President Warren Buford.

Don’t leave home without it

Sophomore Class President Buster Burk, also a member of the
Student Advisory Committee to Director of Auxiliary Services
Richard Terry, informed the SGA that Terry is working with
students and local businesses to allow the CatCard to be used
off-campus. Burk cautioned that the process will move slowly
because several legal issues are unclear and must be resolved
before any plan becomes a reality.

It’s just like living in the Great

Outdoors — and other problems with dorm life

The SGA last Tuesday had what President Bill Gullan called “a
brainstorming” discussion about RLO issues in preparation for
this Thursday’s town meeting on the same subject. Some of the
problems senators mentioned are ants, same material for both
paper towels and toilet paper, no trash bags in Senior Apart-
ments, DCTV not wired to every lounge, RA’s get largest
double rooms but live by themselves, alcohol violations are
often issued without the student knowing until the citation
arrives in the mail, no elevators in the dorms, no storage room
for lofts, seniors have to vacate their apartments by 5 p.m. on the
day of graduation, and not enough working washers and dryers
in sophomore dorms.

NEWS BRIEFS Beth Bell chosen as new

Patterson Court Advisor

By JAson.McCMULLAN
Staff Writer

With Kurt Holmes’ recent pro-
motion, Beth Bell takes his place
as Patterson Court Advisor and
Assistant Director of Residence
Life.

Bell, a recent graduate of
Master’s Studies at USC, officially
assumes the role October 2, but got
her first taste of Davidson night-
life at First Night Down.

“IT was impressed with how
well the night went and how the
Risk Managers and ID checkers
helped keep the parties under con-
trol,” she says.

The transition of power will
be smoother than most since
Holmes will still be in the depart-
ment; in fact, Bell reports to himin

all matters.

Bell is “excited to have him as
aresource while building [her own]
individual student relations.”

Bell plans to continue the re-
cent trend
towards a
risk man-
agement en-
vironment.
= Gar © act
things” are
already in
the works,
and. she is
excited to support them now.

Her initial interest is to see
how the system works, to get a
firm grasp of campus culture and
students’ views, and ther'to help in
future development of the Court.

Steve Shames, President of

Beth Bell

PCC, thinks “she’s fantastic. I was
part of two interviews, and I think
she’s great! It will be nice to get a

"new prospective on how our sys-

tem works.”

Bell brings a lot of experi-
ence, despite her youth, to
Davidson. She was a Greek leader
at UVA as an undergraduate and
worked as a traveling consultant
with her national sorority. She
then earned a master’s in student
personnel from USC before mov-
ing to Virginia Commonwealth

University to work with their Greek

system.

In addition to her Patterson
Court responsibilities, Bell is in-
volved in Hall Counselor and Resi-
dent Advisor training and selec-
tion as well as leadership issues
and training.

PCC continues trying to
Keep kegs flowing until 2am

Student leaders claim early
cut-off leads students to drive drunk

By CHAD WELLMON

HAIR. DESIGNERS
A full service salon for men and women

Welcome back students!
Come in for any of our many services:
cuts * perms  hair-coloring * manicures ¢ pedicures

Right now, Davidson students and faculty
receive 10% off all retail items
with a school I.D.

We now carry a new line of retail products by Abba.

Also select from a line of Paul Mitchell,
Matrix, Logic, Nexxus, Sebastion, and Goldwell
hairstyling products.

Southlake Shopping Center
Next to Harris Teeter
Cornelius, NC
892-3067

Staff Writer

Meeting Sunday evenings in
the Union Conference Room, the
Patterson Court Council has been
working to provide safe, organized
fun on the Court for all students.

The council, headed by Steve
Shames and composed of frater-
nity and eating house leaders, has
taken on issues concerning inde-
pendents and the campus alcohol
policy and is now considering pe-
titioning the Board of Trustees

- to reconsider their decision to cut

off beer service during weekday
parties at midnight.

The Council’s first project of
this semester was to sell PCC stick-
ers to independents. The sale of
PCC stickers helps to offset the
cost of parties, attended by inde-
pendents, for fraternities and eat-
ing houses.

In a unanimous vote Septem-
ber 10, the Council approved a by-
law change which will insure two
independent positions on the Coun-
cil. The independent representa-
tives will be elected to the council
by their fellow independents in the
next few weeks.

After the rigors of voting and
debate, the Council, led by the
efforts of senior David Thompson,
organized the senior class party at

- Signatures.

But in perhaps their most chal-
lenging endéavor, the Council has
been trying to revise the campus
alcoho] policy.

After the first weekend of par-
ties on the court, ‘Shames spent the
first PCC meeting trying to eluci-
date the newly installed wristband
alcohol policy.

Over the past three weeks, the
PCC discussions have centered on
the times that kegs are shut off

The fun doesn’t stop when the beer stops flowing —

Rob Kosicki

students carry their parties to local bars after midnight.

during weekday parties. Last se-
mester the PCC petitioned the
Board of Trustees with a proposal
to extend the hours of alcohol ser-
vice during the weekdays. The
trustees’ response was to push the
time of beer service not back to 2
a.m. as students had requested but
forward to 12 a.m.

This year the Council hoped
to present a resolution to the trust-
ees with the aim of extending the
time when beer service is stopped.

In discussion over the pro-
posed resolution, Shames said, “I
am worried that people will drive
to bars if the kegs are shut off at 12

a.m.”

Shames and the entire council
noted that under North Carolina
law, bars may serve until 2 a.m. If
the kegs are turned off at midnight,
impaired students may drive to lo-
cal bars to continue drinking.

After speaking with Dean of
Students Tom Shandley, Shames
said that the writing of the official
resolution will be postponed until
further research into the alcohol
policy is completed.

By presenting a sound argu-
ment, the Council ‘hopes to con-
vince the trustees to reverse their
decision of last semester.
