CS ee THE DAVIDSONIAN NEWS MONDAY, APRIL 10, 1995
Panel talks DNA to Board of Visitors

BRIEFS

Lighting By RANDy HARTWELL Humanities Program; Dr. John _ sion explaining the workings of their parents to a sort of genetic
Staff writer Porter ‘81,MedicalCollegeofOhio genes and chromosomes in_ deck of cards, shuffled and dealt
at the end trauma surgeon and professor;and laymen’sterms forthe visitors. To randomly. ‘He also pointed out the
The Board of Visitors held Dr. Malcom Campbell ‘84, make the molecular processes enormous bodily difference that
of the tunnel their annual meeting Friday. Asa Davidson biology professor. easier to understand, he likened
Outgoing Senior Class part of the day, they received a Campbell began the discus- the DNA everyone inherits from See Panel on page 4

President B.J. Rudell informed | crash course in molecular biology
the SGA on Tuesday about the | aS part of the college’s efforts to
status of the improvement of | aise funds for the construction of
campus lighting. According to the new Life Sciences building.
Rudell, all of the pieces are in Board members were able to view
place except that Vice Presi- displays from the Biology and Psy-
dent for Business and Finance | chology Departments, both of
Bob Sutton has yet to sign a which will be housed in the new
capital expense form needed:to | building, and listen to the key is-

fund the improvements. sues panel entitled, “This Is Your
Life.”

° 9 The panel’s moderator was Dr.

How minor. Richard Brubaker, Davidson Class

Newly-elected SGA sena- of 1959, who is Director of Medi-
tor and student representative | cal Ventures at the Mayo Clinic in

to the Education Policies Com- Rochester, Minnesota. He ad-
mittee (EPC) Clair Freeman dressed the group, saying that
reported on the status of mi- “Opening before us are the secrets

nors. The EPC’s proposal was that disclose the whole biological
presented to the faculty senate universe.” Panelists included Dr.

but was sent back to committee Richard Lewontin, Professor of

because many on the faculty Biology and Zoology at Harvard;

want a minimum GPA require- Dr. Rosemarie Tong, Professorand SEE
; P ; : : nne Tilghman McEaddy

ment of 3.0 in order to pursue a | Director of Davidson’s Medical \gembers of the “This is Your Life” panel address the Board of Visitors.

minor.

According to SGA Presi-
er. WHERE YOU WORK
faculty support for a depart- :
ment wide minimum GPA.”
ies Atte Cone] ws op EN YOU GET OUT OF
demic Affairs Council] are op- WH N

Hsing mins nu nic COLLEGE DEPENDS ON WHAT
SACed : YOU DO

The committee web of the
Gullan administration is becom- ;
ing areality. The Student Ad- N OW.
visory Councils (SAC) will be @
composed of one SGA member
and one non-SGA member and
will act as liaisons and advisors
to the directors of important

areas of student life. Thus far, ’ Consider an INTERNSHIP in Philadelphia.

Dave Derrick and Sara Beth

Hamlin have been named to the

| BLO SAC. and Buster Burk Recent Davidson participants now back on campus:

| ve > y}\ Bs
and Jill Dyer will work with adline to apply for,

Director of Auxilary Services Amia Canada, Legal Intern, Defender's Association on-teave is April £5
Rigg Teny, Cara Finley, Intern, Greater Philadelphia Hotel Assoc.
SGA Rasheedah Hasan, Legal Intern, Defender's Assoc.
Amy Hawfield, Intern, Philadelphia Geriatric Center
reaches out — Anne McKinney, Intern, Women Organized Against Rape
SGA Vice President War-

Roberta istri '
SADR S ua EA Bests } Stolpen, Intern, District Attorney's Office

nis Seavers presented the find-
ings of an ad hoc committee
aimed at enhancing communi-
cation between the SGA and
the student body. They found

students think the SGA con- In addition to working at their job placements, your classmates also
sists of an elite group of inef- ss ; Eas * ete ee °
fectual members. Buford pre- | participate in academic seminars. They gain independent living skills,
sented a list of suggestions for s s ‘ ou? ; leis
Apoiotight which tanged experience the diversity of urban living, and develope professionally;

from concrete planslike record- ALL WHILE EARNING CREDIT FOR A FULL SEMESTER.

ing meetings for DCTV tolong-
range proposals like an SGA

heist, GLCA Philadelphia Center

SGA Announcement
The deadline to apply to

ele On GRADUATE WITH EXPERIENCE.

Committees has been
extended to April 12.
Applications are : : i‘ i
available in the For moreinformation contact Meredith Harris, Career Center.
Dean of Students Office. 1227-29 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107; tel (215) 574-9490; fax (215) 574-0563

