6

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 27, 1995

Week in Washington

Federal shutdown
enters second week

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

The failure of Congressional
Republicans and the White House
to agree on spending priorities has
resulted in a partial shutdown of
the federal government.

The partial closure began last
Monday when President Clinton
vetoed a bill that would have ex-
tended the debt ceiling to $4.967
trillion from $4.9 trillion, allowing
the government to borrow more
money. This continuing resolu-
tion also would have financed gov-
ernment agencies whose budgets
have not been passed by Congress
and signed by the president.

“This is an overall back-door
effort by the Congressional Re-
publicans to impose their priori-
ties on our nation,” Clinton said as
he vetoed the bill. Clinton ob-
jected to raising the debt limit be-
cause the bill limited the power of
the Treasury Secretary to fulfill
government obligations. He de-
cried provisions that would raise
Medicare premiums and cut edu-
cation, social, and environmental
programs by up to 40 percent. The
bill would also force a balanced
budget in seven years, a provision
which Clinton believes would bind
him to Republican priorities.
House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-
GA) accused Clinton of “deliber-
ate misrepresentation.”

“Weare at an impasse,” White
House Chief of Staff Leon Panetta
told reporters Tuesday. Both sides
are entrenched in their positions:

Republicans demand that Clinton
agree to balance the budget in seven
years, while Clinton insists that
Republicans strip the provision
raising Medicare premiums. Re-
publicans portray Clinton as fis-
cally irresponsible. Dole said
Thursday that “[Clinton] made it
pretty clear that he doesn’t want a
balanced budget.” Clinton paints
the Republicans as cruel and reck-
less, saying “the American people
should not be held hostage any-
more.”

This is the fifth time in four-
teen years that the government has
ceased part of its operations. The
longest previous shutdown lasted
only one business day. With Re-
publicans confident of constituent

_ Support and Clinton promising to

take the budget issue “right into
the next election,” the shutdown
could continue indefinitely.
Gingrich told reporters Wednes-
day that it “could easily last 90
days.”

Meanwhile, the practical ef-
fects of the partial closure were felt
immediately. The government is
threatened with default as interest
payments on the debt come due.
Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin
resorted to “extraordinary” actions
to avert default, using $61.3 bil-
lion from federal retirement funds
to make interest payments and re-
placing them with loans that do not
count against the debt limit. “This
no way for a great nation to man-
age its financial affairs,” Rubin
said.

800,000 federal workers

deemed non-essential, or 40% of
the civilian work force, were sent
home from their jobs Tuesday
morning, without pay.. Essential
services like law enforcement, mail
delivery, and Social Security,
Medicare, and welfare payments
are continuing. However, national
parks, museums, and landmarks
are closed, government hotlines
are not being answered, and pass-
port services are suspended, strand-
ing many travelers overseas. “We
made it through the day,” said
White House Spokesman Michael
McCurry said Thursday. “But
that’s a lousy way to do business.”

The Republican Congress Fri-
day passed an overall budget plan
that would balance the budget in
seven years, give investors and
families with children tax breaks,
and dramatically scale back social
programs.

The House approved the mea-
sure 237-189, and the Senate fol-
lowed 52-47, largely on party lines.
President Clinton has promised to
veto the bill, so the government
will continue operating in a partial
shutdown.

Talks continued through the
weekend over the continuing reso-
lution needed to raise the debt limit
and reactivate government ser-
vices. Democrats promised to use
seven years as a “goal” to balance
the budget, but Rep. John Kasich
(R-OH) said, “We’ ve not reached
any agreement here.”

Sources include: November 14, 15,
16, 17 of The New York Times.

There are two sides
to globalization

By Jim SIBLEY
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Each speaker at the Interna-
tional Forum on Globalization
pointed out the harmful effects of
globalization environmentally, so-
cially, and economically. They
stressed the potential repercussions
of allowing these trends to con-
tinue.

In many cases, economists
were the bad guys. Economists
were characterized as the blind
leaders of this destructive move-
ment.

Speaking only in terms of pro-
duction costs, profit margin, labor,
and capital, and, ignoring the fact
that real humans are involved, de-
scribed their short-sightedness.

At least, we must strive to
balance these economic concepts
with terms like social structure,
environmental costs, and real dis-
tribution of wealth in future mat-
ters of policy and corporate deci-
sions, the opponents of
globalization argued.

The message was that reduc-
ing costs to promote growth does
not always lead to the best possible
outcome, and that growth in the g
ross national product is not a valid
measure of human well-being and
progress. This notion challenges
some very basic economic assump-
tions.

‘Martin Khor from the Third
World Network spoke very clearly
on the history of globalization,
where it came from and where we
must go. He compared
globalization to colonization.

Colonization began more than
500 years ago, with the Europeans
extracting raw materials from the
African continent. The disregard
of environmental and social costs
continued into the 19th-century.
Commons and communities were
destroyed to clear the way for in-
dustrialization.

Khor pointed out that indus-
trialization, by definition, went
against community. Instead of
having globe-alization, we have
glob-alization which allows eco-

nomic disclosure, social disinte-
gration, and environmental de-
struction.

He suggested that localization
is the correct path for us to take.
Political and corporate policy
should accept this new ideology
and work towards re-instituting the
idea of “community”, Khor said.

By far, the most interesting
and effective speaker was Jeremy
Rifkin from the Foundation on
Economic Trends. He discussed
how technology is growing so fast
that many industries have auto-
mated their plants and decreased
the number of jobs in real terms.

Unfortunately, this is happen-
ing while the population of the
world is growing. The Industrial
Age involved a mass of human
labor, while the Information Age
will involve only a small, highly
productive elite work force.

We need to weigh the benefits
of technology, automation, and
reduced costs against lost jobs and
environmental factors, Rifkin cau-
tioned.

NOTES

Women’s Studies turns 25

SAN DIEGO—When Carol Council was a 20-year-old student at
San Diego State University, she asked her classmates: “Does
anybody know someone on campus who’s a feminist?”

“Everyone said, ‘What’s a feminist?’” recalls Council.

The year was 1968. Two years later — after countless
demonstrations and brainstorming sessions — the first-ever
women’s studies department was founded at SDSU.

This fall marks the 25th anniversary of the department, now
one of the largest in the nation. Born out of the feminist
movement, it paved the way for today’s more than 600 women’s
studies departments nationwide.

In honor of the anniversary, SDSU held a symposium No-
vember 4 called “25 years of Women’s Studies: Where Have We

- Been, Where Are We Going?” Among the nearly 300 participants
was Council. For her, the day had special significance — the
department was her brainchild.

“Thad met some women and men at a conference in Reno on
sex roles. We discussed everything about how women were being
discriminated against in society. Then it sort of hit me like a
bomb. I realized that it [discrimination] was across the board ...
the wage differential, job discrimination ... economical, political,
sociological.

“T decided on the way back in the car, I was going to find
someone who would work with me on campus to pull it all
together.”

After knocking on a lot of doors, Council found a literature
professor who shared her interest. Soon they were joined by a
couple dozen other students, faculty and staff. “We created a ‘rap
group’ [the discussion, not musical, kind]. That was the summer
of ‘69, and we spent the three months ‘of. summer talking about
issues, Then we decided we didn’t want to just keep talking, we
wanted to have a plan of action and a focus on higher education.”

Although the administration was open to accommodating
some women’s studies courses, the group wanted more.

They spent most of that school year fighting for their vision.
Council recalls one instance when after hearing her presentation,
an elderly man in the audience stood and said, “The had that rocks
the cradle shouldn’t rock the boat.” :

But the women at SDSU did rock the boat. And their work
was part of a larger crusade for women’s rights.

Ultimately, a vote by the faculty senate in 1970 led to the
creation of the first-ever women’s studies department.

-from the College Press Service

UWstudent goes on spending spree

MADISON—Quick, what’s the difference between $824.00 or
~ $82,400? Try jail.,

On August 19, University of Wisconsin-Madison senior
Chery] Price received a check with a couple of extra zeros before
the decimal point from the university as reimbursement for
changing health insurance plans.

But instead of informing the university of its $81,576 ac-
counting error, Price, who had plans to go to law school and
become an attorney, went on a spending spree.

On October 29, Price was arrested for theft.

Price's plan, according to UW campus police sergeant Gary —
Johnson, was to keep the money in an interest-bearing account
until the school descovered its mistake, then return the money and
keep the interest.

“But then, she started spending and spending and spending,”
Johnson explained.

By the time the UW’s bursar’s office found the error on
September 12 — “It nearly jumped out of the page,” recalled Don
Miner, an assistant vice chancellor in the UW business services
office — Price already had blown quite a bit of her $80,000 stash,
telling friends she had come into a substantial inheritance.

' When the school contacted Price and offered to set up a
payment plan so that she could return the money, Price agreed,
wrote what she knew to be a bad check for $75,000 to the school
and headed for Mexico, said Johnson. “Well,” he said, “she
thought she already was in trouble, she might as well have fun.”

She also wrote out a five-figure cashier’s check as a gift to an
acquaintance. “We have that,” added Johnson.

All together, Price’s spending extavaganza topped $60,000.

: -from the College Press Service

