6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington :
Congress revives health reform

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Inthe broadest health care leg-
islation since Medicare was cre-
ated in 1965, the Senate on Tues-
day passed a bill that would man-
date health insurance portability
and coverage for pre-existing medi-
cal conditions.

The 100-0 vote was hailed by
the bill’s chief sponsors, Sen. Ed-
ward Kennedy (D-MA) and Sen.
Nancy Kassenbaum (R-KS), as “a
constructive step forward, a step
that will help millions of Ameri-
cans.” The bill has two major
provisions. First, employees who
switch jobs would be guaranteed
health insurance coverage under
their new employer if their previ-
ous job provided insurance. Sec-
ond, the waiting period to obtain
coverage for pre-existing medical
conditions would be reduced to
one year. The General Accounting
Office estimates that 25 to 30 mil-
lion Americans would be affected
by this legislation.

The bill will face challenges
in conference, where it must be
reconciled with the House version,
which contains more sweeping
changes. The House bill would
allow people to establish tax-free
medical savings accounts to pay
for routine medical services if they
also purchased high-deductible
catastrophic insurance. It would
also limit malpractice awards for

pain and suffering to $250,000.
Both provisions are opposed by
Democrats and President Clinton.

Mental health coverage will
further complicate the conference.
The Senate passed an amendment
which requires employers to pro-
vide comparable coverage for men-
tal health care as for other health
services. Sponsors Kennedy and
Kassenbaum oppose this provision,
as well as the medical savings ac-
counts and malpractice reform
passed by the House, because they
would break the coalition that sup-
ported the bill.

Kassenbaum argued that a lim-
ited bill was essential if any health
reform was to move forward. “In
order to get this through, it’s got to
be free and clear of controversial
amendments,” she said. However,
Sen. Phil Gramm (R-TX) indicated
that “there’s going to be a very
strong push” from Senate Repub-
licans for medical savings ac-
counts.. Senate Majority Leader
Bob Dole (R-KS) has also ap-
pointed Senate conferees who fa-
vor medical savings accounts.
Supporters claim that these ac-
counts would reduce health care
costs because people would have
an incentive to limit their spend-
ing. However, White House Chief
of Staff Leon Panetta promised
that “if Senator Dole makes the bill
more partisan with medical sav-
ings accounts, the President will
veto it.” Clinton believes that once

affluent, healthy people enroll in
medical savings accounts and with-
draw from traditional insurance,
those remaining would pay higher
premiums.

The challenge for the Senate
bill sponsors will be to stave off
these controversial provisions. By
limiting their legislation mainly to
portability and pre-existing condi-
tions, they cleared away signifi-
cant opposition from industry and
the insurance lobby. Kassenbaum
said that any broader package
would be “unmanageable and in-
trusive.” The bill was one “that we
believed could get the broadest
possible support and yet be a step
forward in meaningful health care
legislation.”

The bill is a sharp departure
from the failed health care plan
proposed by President Clinton in
1994. Rather than force an over-
haul of the American health care
system, this plan takes an incre-
mental approach, addressing spe-
cific problems that are of the great-
est concern to voters. If the bill

passes, it will likely encourage fur- :

ther health care legislation. Sen.
Kennedy remarked that “above all,
[the bill] is proof positive that
progress is again possible on health
reform.”

Sources include: April 24 and 25
of The New York Times and April
24 of The Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

CIA abets arm smuggling?

By Anpy Barwic
Guest Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Amidst the charged political
atmosphere of an election year and
Whitewater hearings, another po-
litical crisis is looming on the ho-
rizon for the Clinton Administra-
tion.

The roots of this crisis go back
toearly 1994 when debate in Wash-
ington concerning the civil war in
the former Yugoslavia was cen-

“tered around the arms embargo.
American foreign policy makers
were deeply concerned about the
disproportionate balance of power
inthe Balkan region. Certain mem-
bers of the government such as
Bob Dole clamored for the removal
of the arms embargo to allow the
beleagered Bosnian forces to fight
their Serbian foes on more equal
footing. These critics of the arms
embargo contended that the US
would create “a more level playing

field” by allowing weapons ship-
ments into Bosnia. Clinton decided
to reject this proposal in fear that
the removal of the arms of em-
bargo would lead to an escalation
and militarization of the Balkan
conflict. However, as steadfast as
Clinton’s stance might have
seemed at the time, the US contin-
ued to explore ways to come to the
aid of the Bosnian Muslims. The
ultimate course of action Wash-
ington decided upon reflected more
of “what not to do” rather than
“what to do”.

It has been known that Iran
and several other Middle Eastern
countries had been secretely sup-
plying the Bosnian Muslims with
arms over the past couple years.
For much of the war, Iran smuggled
weapons through Croatia and even
supplied mujihadeen forces to the
Bosnian government in Sarajevo.
What was not known and what
recent reports seem to imply how-

ever, is that this clandestine opera-
tion was facilitated by the CIA
office in Croatia under President
Clinton’s tacit approval. The issue
is the wisdom and legality of
Clinton’s decision to inform Presi-
dent Franco Tudjman of Croatia in
April 1994 that the United States
essentially would not object if Iran
shipped arms to Bosnia through
Croatia.

Since this information has sur-
faced it has created a storm on
Capitol Hill. Oversight commit-
tees have demanded that Clinton
turn over classified documents that
he has deemed as “executive deci-
sions” concerning the policy on
Bosnian arms shipments. As the
showdown threatens to spill over
into campaign politics, one conse-
quence has already materialized
for Bill Clinton — yet another

American president in a streak .

since Jimmy Carter to be scorned
by the Islamic Republic of Iran.

Stormin’
from page 4

extending dining hours on cam-
pus. Even alternative dining down
the hill has been suggested. A
large part of the student body ex-
presses frustration with the Union
Cafe’s high prices, the relative dis-
repair of campus vending ma-
chines, and limited CAT card ca-
pabilities.

Students also addressed other
college services. Several people
feel that the Student Health Center

y

ts!

is providing adequate service, but
express concern that neither the
morning after pill nor birth control
are provided free, when condoms
are readily available in all hall
bathrooms.

In reaction to the issue of
Patterson Court, the presence of a
co-ed eating house is widely sup-
ported and students feel that the
BSC could become more of a pres-
ence on campus and on the Court
by co-sponsoring more events with
other houses.

Students react strongly to mat-
ters concerning RLO. Most would

v} Raed ok Sosa a peck a) ot

like to see renovation and techno-
logical improvements, including
internet and cable television acces-
sibility to each dorm room. Others
call for greater pollux availability
campus-wide, perhaps in the Union

and Chambers, and some complain ~

of poor BTI service and rates.
Many students advocate

cleaner hall conditions, but object —

to the RLO collection and hoard-
ing of property left on the halls.
Co-ed dorms are of great concern,
since many students feel that co-ed
living could be a potential solution
to seni gh dal

TACT v

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996

Paraguay’s international adoptions under suspicion

Paraguay’s court system has become the target of numerous
accusations that it has repeatedly sanctioned illicit international
adoptions of Paraguayan children during the past few years.

One Paraguayan woman recently stepped forward, intent on
challenging the system, allegedly riddled with corruption. She claims
that her 14 month old daughter was stolen and sold for international
adoption to an American couple in 1993. ~

Since the demise in 1989 of Paraguay’s dictatorial government,
which has ruled the small South American country for 35 years,
Paraguay has come to supply more children for adoption in the US
than any other South American country.

Disco fire in Manila results in over a hundred fatalities
_ During Tuesday’s early morning hours, fire broke out in a
crowded disco in Manila, capital of the Philippines. Literally packed
with teenagers in the midst of a school-end celebration, the entire
building was ravaged by flames.

Hours after the fire, 80 bodies had been recovered form the
wreckage, and officials predicted that the death toll would likely
reach 150.

Cuban emigrants’ hopes rise with lottery announcement

Last week, just days after the US government announced its
intention to hold a second lottery to allow Cubans to emigrate to the
US, throngs of Cubans gathered in Havana outside the United States’
Interests Section, hoping to hand in their lottery applications.

The lottery system was devised in 1994 by the US in an attempt
to curb the flow of Cuban boat people entering the US

Through the lottery, Cubans who do not have relatives in the US
and might not otherwise qualify for emigration are given a chance of
acceptance into the United States.

Hamas budget may be funneled through Jordan

Western leaders, reacting to a string of deadly terrorist acts
against Israel for which Hamas, a militant Islamic movement, claimed
responsibility, urged Jordanian officials to shut down Hamas opera-
tions within Jordan.

Jordanian Information Minister Marwan Muasher denied Hamas
presence in the nation saying, “There are no Hamas offices in Jordan.”

Yet Muasher was forced to admitted that Hamas representatives
maintain operations in the political headquarters of Jordan’s legal
organization, the Muslim Brotherhood. The Brotherhood holds 17 of
80 parliamentary seats in Jordan’s government.

Western intelligence officials insist that much of Hamas’ $70
million budget is channeled to the group through Jordan.

Sources include: The New York Times March 19 and 21, 1996

Break out the Eggs!

Exams will soon be here. To make it through them, we need
to eat well (and study, too!). Besides maintaining out health and
energy, we must consider our budget. Luckily, the NC Egg
Association has a quick, easy, and inexpensive meal that your
student body can prepare for a meal or snack.

Did you know that it’s possible to make a 40 second omelet?
It looks great and is a better deal than 2 chicken tacos at a fast
food restaurant. .

A few days ago I made my first omelet. I didn’t know if I
was omelet making material, but in less than a minute I learned
and made my own. My omelet was delicious. If omelet making
was a class, we'd all make an A. Don’t you wish all your classes
could be so easy. Get those eggs (and books) cracking!

The Official 40 Second Omelet

2 eggs

2 tbsp water

pat of butter

1/2 cup of whatever filling you want — onions, mushrooms,
peppers, cheese, pizza sauce, bacon, spices, asparagus, fruit,
peanut butter, etc.

Before adding the eggs, heat pan over stove. Chop filling.
Mix eggs and water. Put butter in pan — don’t let it burn. Set
your stop watch: pour eggs on hot pan. Turn the spatula over
(inverted position) and gently push eggs from the pan’s 12 o’clock
position to the center. Tilt the pan for eggs to fill the hole. Repeat
push and tilt at the three, six, and nine o’clock positions. Place
filling on left side of omelet. Fold right side over left. Put down
spatula, pick up plate, and flip omelet onto plate.

— North Carolina Egg Association

