2 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Terms of Trustee alcohol policy vote take effect

Davidson’ s trustee vote last spring resulted in major changes in the
school’s alcohol policy. The Board of Trustees decision to uphold the
Council on Campus and Religious Life’s (CCRL) recommendation
that open containers of alcohol, such as kegs, be banned from campus
takes effect this fall.

As of the trustee vote, Patterson Court houses are still free to
purchase alcohol, so a BYOB policy is not currently instated. Also,
according to terms of the vote, party hours of the houses were extended.
Beer will not be served on the court after 1:30 a.m. and parties will close
at 2:00 a.m.

Sign of selectivity: Davidson’s yield grows

Faced with a vital challenge each spring, Davidson’s Admissions
Office must attempt to predict how many of Davidson’s thousands of
applicants to admit in order to ensure an incoming class whose size
won’t strain but will fully utilize Davidson’s resources.

“The typical student who is admitted here is also admitted to four
other schools,” said Leonard Satterwhite, Associate Dean of Admis-
sion and Financial Aid. There is no certain formula to determine who
and how many of these students will enroll in Davidson. The percent-
age of admitted applicants who choose to enroll in a given school is
known as that school’s yield rate.

Harvard, recognized as one of the nations most selective schools,
has a typical yield rate of about 75 percent, according to Satterwhite.
This year “we were projecting a yield rate of about 41 percent,”
Satterwhite said. Last year Davidson’s yield rate was 39 percent. This
year, the Class of 2000 reached 42 percent.

Satterwhite and his department use “calculation based on past
history” to predict the yield when in the process of reviewing applica-
tions. Yield may be‘affected by factors such as the state of the national
economy and the quality of the applicant pool.

New mailroom built for faculty and staff

Located where the stage of the gallery used to be on the first floor
of Chambers, a new mailroom for faculty and staff has been built. It
is still just as convenient as the old mailroom and provides much more
space,

Irvin Brawley, Associate Director of Administration and Ser-
vices explains the move because of the need for “more space and a way
to secure the mail.” The old mailroom had open boxes that allowed
public access to each box. The new set-up is now similar to that of the
postoffice, although it is not federally regulated. Ithas 360 boxes with
combination locks. There is some early concern by faculty having
trouble working the locks, but with time the problems are expected to
be resolved. There are 20 boxes for UPS deliveries and larger
packages that are opened by a key. Some individual boxes are still
available.

NEWS

MONDAY,AUGUST 26,1996

Sophomores are finally stylin’

Down-the-hill renovations give Sophomore Year Abroad a brand new look

By KirsTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

In past years Irwin, Akers and
Knox, Davidson’s three down-the-
hill dorms, have been a popular
housing choice for sophomores
despite the residences’ state of

slight disrepair. This year how- |

ever, big changes are already un-
derway.

Margaret Lumpkin, a junior
and Resident Advisor to first Knox,
gave a tour of her co-ed hall, high-
lighting an array of new features.

“Everything is basically ‘shiny
new’,” Lumpkin said. Some double
rooms boast new walk-in closet
space and all painting — both in-
side and out — was redone over the
summer. Lumpkin explained that

all the doors are new, as are many
bathroom fixtures.

Brand new dryers and wash-
ing machines are in place, recessed
lighting was installed in the lounge,
and wall-to-wall carpeting now
covers the entire hall.

“Our [room] is pretty smooth,”
agreed sophomore Andy Roark, a
first Knox resident.

The building’s duct work was
renovated this summer to provide
each room with individual heat
and air conditioning control.

“We will be hooked up to fi-
ber optics soon,” said Lumpkin,
who pointed out the outlets which
have already been installed in:indi-
vidual rooms. Although Knox
seems to have completely trans-
formed, Lumpkin noted that “there.

Write for The Batidsonian! Come to
our meeting at 6:00 Monday night in
the 900 Room— it won’t last long.

If you missed it, then give us a call at —2148. Call Kirsten for News,
Kristen for Opinions, Emily for Arts and Living or Will for Sports.

:

FREE FREE

Sueded Rayon Serunchles

(COME ON IN AND GET SOME)
’ COMPLIMENTS OF

DREAM WEAVER
A CLOTHING STORE
AW INTERESTING & ECLECTIC COLLECTION
JUDY AND GREG OWNERS , DESIGNERS

AND CREATORS (NO IMPORTS)
106 S. MAIN ST. DAVIDSON
2 DOORS SOUTH OF THE SODA SHOPY GREAT FOOD]

10% DISCOUNT ON ALL PURCHASES

AND YOU FINALLY TURNED 21 ...

Let me in! Sophomore Bob il onecean tries to beat down the
door, devastated at the closing of of Davidson's old favorite
bar and restaurant, Backstreet. The restaurant closed down
this June and is now completely boarded up, much to the
lament of regulars. Rumors have it that a family restaurant
is moving in ... The Davidsonian will be investigating.

Will Bradshaw

is no new furniture.”

She said that Knox’s second
floor kitchen will be ready soon.

Changes are evident from the
outside as well. The building’s
front porch columns are new, as
are the two vending machines that
grace each of Irwin’s, Akers’, and
Knox’s entrances. Safety screens
which cannot be cut or torn were
recently installed in the windows.
Although the screens can be re-
moved from inside the rooms, they
must be professionally reinstalled.

While Irwin and Akers under-
went similar structural changes to
Knox this summer, they do not yet
boast all of Knox’s amenities.
However, Lumpkin says, down-
the-hill renovation will continue
throughout the year.

Senior class
committee
formed

By KirstEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Taking a new approach to the
Senior Class gift tradition, 18 mem-
bers of the Class of 1997 recently
formed a Senior Class Committee
responsible for not only the class
gift, but for bringing their class
together during its last year at
Davidson.

Warren Buford, senior and
Student Government Association
President, said the group hopes to
increase class unity.

Through a series of socials,
the senior class will have ample
opportunity to forma closer sense
of camaraderie before entering the
post-Davidson world.

Now in its initial stages, the
committee has no official leader-
ship, although chairs will be cho-
sen soon.

Meredith Strong, acommittee
member, said that her 17 fellow
members include “a broad mix of
people” with a common mission
“to bring the class together.”

Jack McCarthy receives bone marrow

transplant from brother Cormac

By KrisTEN RICHARDSON
Opinions Editor

Late last year, the Davidson
Community was devastated by the
news that Jack McCarthy had con-

Bed and Body Shoppe
"... for a renewed sense
_ of well being."
202 S. Main Street
Davidson, NC 28036
(in Ben & Jerry's parking lot)
(704) 895-0977

tracted acute myeloid leukemia.
Jack is the three-year-old son of
Political Science professor Susan
Roberts and Director of Develop-
ment Kevin McCarthy.

Over the summer there were
several major developments in
Jack’s condition. In April of last
year, tests proved that Jack and his
brother Cormac were perfectly
matched for the neccessary bone
marrow transplant.

Doctors at Duke University
Medical Center performed the op-
eration on June 28. The operation
was successful, but it was
neccessary for Jack to remain in
the hospital for the standard hun-
dred days so that his condition
could be monitored closely by his
doctors.

Pat Gardner, who works in the
office of the Dean of the Faculty,
reports that Jack is doing well. She

spoke recently with Kevin
McCarthy, who commented that
Jack’s white blood cell counts are
good and that his eyelashes and
eyebrows are beginning to grow
back.

An enormous amount of
people have rallied around Jack
and his family. Jack’s Rabbits is a
group of friends, colleagues and
supporters that have worked to fa-
cilitate neccessities for the
family.

WANT TO HELP?

To become involved, phone Pat
Gardner in the Dean of Faculty’s
office 892-2204. There is a
special update on Jack’s condition
available via a voice mail box
892-2675. To obtain additional
information or to find out how to
become part of the efforts to help
there is a newsletter available in
the Dean of Faculty’s office,

