OPINIONS

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Barbarians at t

You know. The phenomenon
knownas life is, for lack of a better
word, interesting. Just when you

’ think that you have found the un-
solvable solution to Fermat’s “life”
equation, an aberration of sorts
emerges and totally messes up the
program which you thought con-
sistent with the status quo and the
way things operate in society.
Sadly, you come to the realization
that there is nothing wrong with
you per se.

Larger society just operates
on a different set of rules and val-
ues, which call for a person to
compromise, assimilate.and adapt
or die. It’s funny. Really, itis. ’m
part of an intellectual community
that values reason and open-
mindedness, above everything else.
That’s what I like about Davidson.
Then again, I have the extreme

pleasure of listening to beer bottles
being broken in my hall on week-
ends, observing unsung throngs of
people lecturing others on the finer
points of “getting blitzed,” and
viewing the paths of wanton de-
struction these scions leave in their
wake.

But such is life. In a world
which views many black men (such
as myself) as feral beasts whose
sole function in life is to rape,
pillage, plunder and destroy the
institutions of a majority popula-
tion who fear and misunderstand
us, such revelry, celebration and
destruction is the accepted norm,
and anything to the contrary is
thought as uncivilized. :

Soin order to protect the weak
and innocent, I must stifle the sup-
posed “true nature of the beast”
within me and live with the stigma

R. J. Joseph

that something is wrong with me
while everyone else is normal.
However, I will not be tricked,
bamboozled or misled into think-
ing this is the case. °

I beg to differ. Breaking
bottles in the halls is not kosher.
Destroying property, peace and
tranquility are not the actions that
define an intellectual elite.

I know everyone on this cam-
pus does not indulge in such be-
havior, and I have no problems
with people who drink on the
whole. I do have a problem with
people who take this social way of
life to the extreme.

I, for one, can’t be blind to the
reckless state of affairs surround-
ing me. As students of this institu-
tion, we can not afford to be oblivi-
ous of such things. Aldous Huxley
noted inhis novel Brave New World

Revisited, “those who are alert to
the dangers of tyranny, are often
asleep to the dangers of distraction
and hedonism.” It is so easy for
many of us to turn our heads and
dismiss these actions as trivial pur-
suits. Yet, I can clearly hear the

tefrain for the justification of such

actions: “We just wanna have fun.
You know. When in Rome ...”
However, I wonder if the Romans
realized it was the end of society as
they knew it when the Visigoths
came charging towards their city
hundreds of years ago. There they
stood. At the threshold of the de-
struction of an empire. The bar-
barians were at the gate.

Of course such a scenario
could not happen at Davidson.
Right? We have no barbarians
banging at our doorstep. Right?
Wrong. Maybe it is the case since

he gate

the barbarians are already within
our midst. How else can on ex-
plain the delinquency that occurs
when alcohol is involved? .

- Can such drunken despotism
and destruction be allowed within
this honor-bound center of law and
order? I think not.

One must not allow this ex-
treme sect of our population to
impose their rancid ways upon
those who have common sense and
dislike chaos. Even though these
destructive forces are among us,
they are not a reflection or image
of many students who come to this
college for an education.

The way I see it, we may not
be able tosolve this problem. How-
ever, come hell or high water, we
can do what we can to limit it. All
it takes is for someone to make a
stand.

Naresh Nagella

Presidential debate?

Well, this week will signal the
end or climax of one of the bigger
campus debates this year. The
trustees are going to decide whether
the “religious qualifications” for
most some important college posts
should be rescinded or kept in tact.
The trustees and professors, it
seems we have decided, can be
other than Christian, or at least
other than Presbyterian.

The controversial post looks
to be about the new president. Does
_-he or she have to be Presbyterian?

Now, there are passionate support-
ers on either side of the issue. The
SGA was seyerely split over the
whole thing. It could be trouble. It
could be controversy. It could
divide the campus. I hope it does
not get solved.

It probably won’t be too dam-
aging if the trustees decide to
maintain the requirement. I mean,
let’s not let just our four classes
have all the good issues, right?
Future generation of Davidson stu-
dents should explore this issue.
Spread the intellectual growth, I
say.

But, we can not do this by
simply staying silent on this issue.
People who think the requirément
should be taken out must keep
pressing their cause. I mean, .the

. Fepealers do have a point. Why
restrict ourselves and our $25,000
tuition to only Presbyterian candi-
dates for president? Shouldn’t we
demand and receive the best per-
son for our money?

What if an excellent Baptist,
Jew, or Buddhist was out there
who knew much about running a
college, had great social skills,
served his or her community ex-
cellently, and had a knack for mak-
ing alumni fill out large checks
regularly? Wouldn’t we want that
person to guide us? Why would
we want to limit ourselves?

_Also, it looks bad: I mean,

how do: you go about requesting

‘special character.

applicant for this job? Does the
add read, “Wanted: President for
national liberal arts college. Pres-
byterians need only apply’’? Liber-
als have been complaining equal
employment does not exist at the
top. That ad looks more like a iron
shield than a glass ceiling.

Well, that’s what the opposi-
tion says. The standpatters want to
keep the requirement. They worry
the Presbyterian connection of the
college will be lost. They rightly
worry about the loss of possible
money and support the church gives
us, They worry the school will
lose ties with its history and roots.
They worry Davidson will lose its
All are very
good arguments.

Some of the repealers, though,
question what exactly a Presbyte-
rian influence is.
how many people on the campus
‘even know who John Calvin. is.

_ One might wonder: Would he con-

done a Patterson Court reveler? A
Habitat Home builder? Or both?

“Some big Presbyterian influ- -

ence!” they say.

So, what are we going to do?
Well, let’s just keep this debate
going. Let’s not decide on this for
awhile. I mean, I like the church’s
influence on this college. It de-
mands we find excellent, caring
professors. It brings us scholars
like Frederick Buechner to cam-
pus. It tries to keep the school’s
goals on service to community and
strong scholarship. I even like the
plainness it might cause; the build-

' ings on campus seems to suggest

that the only thing you should pay
attention to is the subject at hand
— be it a friend, Cornell West,
Rusted Root, a professor, ora book.
And, still, everyone agrees we have
a beautiful campus. Cherish the
learning, right? I believe the Pres-

_byterian church’s influence can be

seen in this way. I am glad it had
such an effect.

They wonder :

But, the repealers would re-
spond. They would say that we
could never lose the church’s in-
fluence since it is already so in-
grained, And, DCPC is not going
anywhere. They would say having
the requirement would actually
make the church’s influence seem
too materialistic, since we would
have to keep in writing to believe.
Let’s nurture the church’s ideals as
universal and comnion. Let’s sug-
gest everyone should try to strive

in scholarship and service, because .

that would be good for anyone, not
just Presbyterians.

Finally, the standpatters would
say thatkeeping the president Pres-
byterian has not hurt the college so
far. Plus, we agree the trustee
requirement should change. So,
will it really hurt to keep the presi-
dent Presbyterian?

So, there you have it. The
debate questions and explores reli-
gion, politics, and morals. The
point is that is very difficult to
come to a conclusion on this topic.
Youcan have my gut reaction to it.
Or, you can explore it among intel-
lectual and complex theological
lines. It’s for one and all. Youcan
find my middle ground (or wishy-
washiness as my Presbyterian
roommate tells me — Jesus said
"You should be hot or cold, not
lukewarm," he adds) or you can be
resolute in it.

Wherever or whatever your
opinion, itis okay. At least every-
one agrees a Hindu student can act
as a trustee to their alma mater and
that itis okay for a Muslim to teach
about Islam. The presidential po-
sition does not enter so absolute an
area. So, talk and debate on, I say.
But, let’s do something about the
that ad anyway. .

Maybe “People of the Presby-
terian Persuasion a Big Plus.” It
has alliteration and political cor-
rectness. See, this stuff is going to
be fun! oe

John Rogers

Court members
should accept
changes

For four years, Ihave enjoyed mixing and mingling on Patterson

Court, and I wantitto remain healthy. Unfortunately, the coming BYO
policy and closed parties will change business as usual. Although these|
new rules may seem odious, they will ensure the Court’s survival by
minimizing our liability, Otherwise, one lawsuit could end the Court}
for good.

Each fraternity and women’s eating house carries liability insur-
ance. My fraternity’s policy, doubtlessly similar to the others, prohib-
its kegs, open parties, and slush funds, among other evils. If we ignore}
these rules, we lose our coverage, leaving us legally defenseless in the|
event of an accident. This means that a court could require that any
house member pay thousands of dollars a year to satisfy a judgment.

Do you want your name on a lawsuit?

We can follow the rules while having fun — BYO does not mean|
no parties. In fact, Virginia Tech houses throw fun BYO parties. On
a BYO Patterson Court, people will still dance, socialize, and relax.
They can drink as long as they bring their own or have friends who!
bring their own Some people: have raised noteworthy concerns,
including potential increases in drunk driving and binge drinking.
However, these concerns are not well founded, After Duke went BYO,
for example, the number of emergency room visits plummeted nian
5-7 per weekend to 0-1. BYO does not mean that Davidson students
will act irresponsibly.

Of greatest concern ‘to me are closed parties. I’d hate for the Court
to become exclusionary and divisive. But I think we can produce|
inclusive guest lists which satisfy our insurance policies.

Neither BYO nor guest lists will force parties off campus or ruin
the Court. A lawsuit could. Accepting these changes means protectin
our skins from a legal climate hostile to fraternities and eating houses.
It’s the best way to make sure that we can enjoy the Court in the ye:
to come.

Che Pavidsonianis looking for
inerested people to apply for edi-
torial positions for the fall se-
mester. Call John or Mary
Clare at - 2148 if you want to
write, edit, manage advertising,
take pictures, or work on our
web page.

