20 THE DAVIDSONIAN BACK PAGE INTERVIEW MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

On her way to becoming

Abassador to the Republic

of Zambia, Arlene Render stops
by Davidson to discuss the future of

Burundi and Rwanda, the foreign sevice,
and caring about her fellow man.

What is the most significant problem
facing Burundi today?

The most significant problem fac-
ing Burundi today is the question of
ethnicity and democratic maintenance.
By that, I mean Burundi is at a cross-
roads in trying to remain stable to
avoid a horrific eminent crisis ulti-
mately that could lead to genocide. So,
I think there are political solutions to
their problems so they can avoid this
‘tremendous and voracious problem .

What effects do the “Somalia syn-
drome” as well as the lack of interna-
tional intervention in Rwanda have
on current U.S. policy in Burundi?

I don’t think that these two events

have a significant impact on U.S. for-
eign policy in Burundi. By that, I mean
that the people who are engaged in
trying to find a solution to Burundi’s
problems are looking at it from a point
of view of what is best for Burundi and
what we can do, Clearly no one in the
United States nor the world wants to
see another Rwanda genocide. There-
fore we have always focused our ef-
forts on prevention, crisis management,
trying to encourage the Burundians to
find solutions to the problems that face
them. This is not easy. we know. We
have sent people to the region: Na-
tional Security Advisor Anthony Lake,
our U.S. Ambassador to the United
Nations Madeleine Albright, the
Deputy Secretary of State Vincent
Talbart — he was named a presidential
envoy for Rwanda and Burundi and
the Great Lakes. We have a coordina-
tor for Burundi. [These are] people
who are focusing their attention not
only on Burundi specifically but the
subregion of the Great Lakes. They are
working not only with the people in
Burundi and Rwanda and Zaire, but
also the chiefs of state surrounding this
area of the Great Lakes as well as other
interested persons such as Jimmy
Carter and others who are strongly
interested in helping Burundi find so-
lutions to their problems.

Along those same lines, what effect
do think the sanctions will have?

I hope they (and I believe they
are) having a positive effect on at least
pushing the current military leaders. I
think they are having a positive impact
in trying to get them to restore their
democratic institutions in Burundi with
financial incentives. And I think it’s
because of steps where African na-
tions gain belief in trying to help other
African nations resolve their problems.

Do you foresee U.S. troops interven-
ingin Burundito help them change to
a democratic, stable social state?

I personally do not see that. But I
could see a whole host of nations com-
ing together for humanitarian efforts. I
think that what we want to do is pursue
an African solution to an African prob-
lem. I think that’s what everyone, the
OAU ... the countries of Tanzania,
Uganda, and in the area, are trying to
work with Burundi on this problem.
So I think that is what you want to see,

rather than have us go in with an Op-:

eration Support Hope type of mission.

You began your career in health
administration. What motivated you
to switch to the Foreign Service and
what impact has your [health related]
experience had on your [current]
work?

It is true that my first job after I
graduated from university and received
my masters in public health was work-
ing as a public health educator in the
city of Cleveland. I have always main-
tained an interest in history . . . I like
history. I am also very interested in
how events impact.our lives. And it
was that interest that sparked my inter-
est in the Foreign Service in wanting to
at least try out a new career. And sol

joined the Foreign Service with the
thought in mind of giving it a try for at
least a few years and perhaps going
back to public health. But I found that
because the Foreign Service is a pro-
fession whereby you change countries
every two to three years — in fact,
every two or three years I had a new
job and new experiences and new chal-
lenges. And therefore I have remained.
I think that my experiences in public
health did help me in a number of
ways. Number one, in management of
programs and people. But more im-

Ms. Arlene Render, former
director of Central Africa to
Burundi, has witnessed firsthand
the horrific toils of the Burundi
people through her foreign ser-
vice. She has stood by the people

through collaboration and with
time, people will find peace within
themselves, and finally put aside
their wrath of hate and prejudice.’

Ms. Render fervently believes
that people should take responsi-

any people contribute a great deal to
our world, and we are just a part of it,

and so it is wonderful to experience
the flavors that are out there.

portantly it also made me aware be-
yond the political and economic issues

that countries are grappling with — to -

also be aware of and focus on some of
the social issues that are there. And
clearly health issues and social issues
and issues such as the environment are
more and more coming to the fore in
our times. So I think it is a very useful
tool to have in one’s bailiwick. Clearly
when you are talking to physicians and
others when they know you have a
background in public health, they feel
they are talking to someone who’s
credible (laugh), someone they can
understand. So it has been useful and
helpful to have as part of my back-
ground.

You have been on assignment on four
continents, is that correct?

I have spent my time in four ma-
jor areas. I have spent the majority of
my career in Africa. [hadatourin Iran.
had a tour in Cape de Ver. I had a tour
in the Caribbean where I was Counsel
General in Jamica. So I have been to a
number of places. But I have spent the
majority of my career in the Africa
Bureau; that is my choice ....and I
haven’t regretted a minute of

’ it. [have thoroughly enjoyed my time
there.

Your varying interests and experi-
ences serving in the foreign service
have taken you all over the world.
You have been on assignmenton four
continents. As a result of your exten-
sive travels, what have you gained

of Burundi in times of grief and
sorrow, and personally hopes

bility for their own actions and
decisions. She hopes that the Afri-

can people find an “African solu-
tion” and a vested interest in their
own peace.

In this interview, Ms. Render
is trying to give a sensible perspec-
tive of the Burundi struggle and
she elaborates on her life’s journey
of service and goodwill.

As Ambassador Brown pro-
nounced, “She is a role model for
us all.”

Perhaps there is no other way
to explain her universal message
of peace and brotherhood.

Recently, Ms. Render as-
sumed the position of U.S. Am-
bassador to Zambia and she yearns
to fulfill her new duty.

from these diverse places and cul-
tures?

We all have ways of achieving a
goal, It is important to realize that we
have many ways of acheiving that goal.
We learn techniques, we learn prob-
lem solving ventures, and encounter
new people. So, I look at strength for
all of us, and it has been good and
positive. Many people contribute a
great deal to our world, and we are just
a part of it, and so it is wonderful to
experience the flavors that are out there.

What has been your most exciting
assignment?

In the foreign service, we say that
our most important assignment is our
first assigment. I think it is because,
like anything else it’s the first time you
experience significant foreign roles and
I enjoyed most of my tours for differ-
entreasons, But! throughly enjoy when
looking back at my first tour in Cape
De Ver; I guess it is my favorite.

Ambassador Brown has describedyou
as an excellent role model. What
would you wish others to gain from
your life experiences?

Well, I hope that individuals will
look at me and say two things: One, if
you work hard you can achieve some-
thing, and, two, she cares about her

fellow man and she hopes that people
will work together to achieve common
interests. :

How can anyone with limited knowl-
edge of Africa get involved and make
a positive impact specifically on the
crisis in Burundi or in the context of
the foreign service in general?

I think most people have the na-
ture of seeing events that affect their
lives, but some foreign events are too
far away for a number of individuals.
Clearly, I find most Americans relate
to seeing different problems of the
world onthe television. However, they
are keenly interested and want to get
involved. They want to make contri-
butions, they want to figure out how
they can help and they do help. How
can people become interested in for-
eign affairs? I think by reading the
newspaper, attending lectures, such as
those sponsored by the Dean Rusk
Program in International Studies. I
think travel also sparks an interest in
international affairs. So, there are mul-
tiple ways. But, generally speaking,
we tend to, all of us, be more con-
cerned of those things that affect our

lives now. A message is presented to
us, a number of us do not look beyond
that, but I think in general there is a
great deal of interest in different world

_ events.

Where do see Burundi in five to ten
years?

Burundi is a very. complex issue,
but the optimistic view of Burundi
would that by two or three years from
now, they would be able to heal all the
deadly positions they have. I hope that
they succeed, but I know that for people
it takes time to heal the cohesiveness
of society. But if we can avoid an
ethnic bloodbath, a genocide, to me
that’s a step in the positive direction.
And I think that’s what we should
work towards getting. We should help
them with their development. Burundi
is acountry which has enough rain and
enough variation of temperature that it
could almost grow anything. It clearly
should be focusing on economic po-
tential, This would create jobs for the
people, focus less on the things that
divide them and focus more on the
things that unite them.

BY JILL STEPHENSON &
YASAR ISHAQ

