DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1996

16

Volleyball spanks two conference foes"

By Drew WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

Bumgarner and Gina Lawrence set
the tone, as the team claimed the
first two games, 15-11, 15-13.
But UTC, the top seed in the
conference, would not give up so
easily. And after a pep-talk from
their coach the Mocs rallied to win
the next two games, 15-8, 15-12.
Chattanooga jumped toa 10-5
lead in the rubber game, and it

Understanding waterfowl

By JoHN Rog
Outdoors Columnist

After knocking off Western
Carolina on Friday in four games,
the Wildcats avenged last month’s
three game sweep by beating UT-
Chattanooga in five games in
Sunday’s regular season finale.

Vicious kills from L.A.

Riding on the wing, just in front of the coldest masses of Canadian
air, sweeping south through the flooded corn fields and the cypress
swamps, and meandering along swelling rivers and potholes are the
flights of the waterfowl. Scores of Geese cover the sky in brilliant
formations, filling the countryside with a harmony of sounds that
embody nature’s wildness. Mallards, Canvasbacks, Black Ducks and
Red Heads, just to name a few, buzz over the treetops and stop
frequently for rest and food. Waterfowl hunters all over the nation
look to the skies, play their wooden flutes and employ sundry other
devious tactics in hopes to charm these birds into range.

It takes much skill to coax a flock of ducks or geese from flight.
Not only must you master their language, but an advanced understand-
ing of behavior, such as feeding and flying habits, is necessary to
outsmart these creatures. Blinds must be constructed in strategic
locations, possibly on the edge of a flooded field or in the backwater
swamps bordering a major river flyway. Decoys can be set out in
patterns such that the waterfowl fly into range at just the right moment,
allowing the hunters to remain concealed until the trigger is pulled. Of
course changing weather must be factored into the mix, for winters can }.
run the gamut from mild to ridiculous conditions. In.other words, there
exists an infinite amount of details to consider that only experience and

Beware birds. In a gaggle of decoys, John Roe lurks with a gun.
a love for the hunt can teach you. ;

Although I have only hunted waterfowl for a short time, I have
learned through mistakes as well as success. I have figured out the
maximum range within which to shoot, to ensure a clean kill and avoid
crippling a bird. But I have also figured out the critical depth of my
waders, to ensure that no more unpleasant surprises trickle down my
legs and end the hunt. I have learned to reproduce a series of sounds
on my duck call that seems to pull the birds right in, but I have learned
a series or two that apparently repels them as well. My problem is that
I cannot tell which is which, but the ducks sure can. Ihave realized that
a good dog is invaluable, for it is happy to sit outside the blind, dive into
the icy water, and retrieve a fighting bird all for a pat on the head.

Most importantly, I have discovered that waterfowl] hunting is
purely a group effort. Every hunter in a group plays a crucial role in
setting up decoys, scanning the horizon for birds and waiting for the
best shot the birds will provide. Itis truly a spectacular feeling to watch
a flock materialize from the distant horizon, circle the open water and
finally cup their wings and flutter like falling leaves into a spread of
decoys just in front of the blind. It is then that the group effort is
appreciated.

Between first light and the cleaning of the last bird, so many things
must goright. Understanding waterfow] behavior, reading the weather
and deciding which combinations of tactics are needed to pull birds
from the sky is what brings me back into the cold, icy conditions that
ducks so love. There is always something new to be learned about
waterfowl, and the best teaching grounds are on the water among the

elements, fellow hunters, dogs, and birds.

seemed another valiant effort
would end in a loss. But after a
Wildcat timeout, the players took
the floor with the same attitude
they had exhibited early on, and
rallied to defeat UTC, 16-14. Ginny
Quis, Bumgarner, and Lawrence
each provided crucial kills to spark
the victory.

Radford said the difference in
the game was the team’s attitude.

“They (the players) wanted to
beat UTC instead of just playing
well,” she said.

On Friday night, the team
grabbed a 16-14, 9-15, 15-11, 15-
10 win over Western Carolina.
Gina Lawrence led the team with
20 kills, and Ginny Quis had a
team-leading 29 assists.

Davidson (11-21) hopes to
continue winning as they‘face ei-
ther App. St. or Furman in the first
round of the Southern Conference
playoffs next weekend.

CHAMPIONS

Tournament MVP Katherine Cornelius and all-tourney
selection Amy Balsinger (right to left) bask in the glow of their
third straight women’s soccer conference tourney title.

\ i Ll :
Bill Giduz

Sailing snags best-ever finish at Districts

By Brice Ivy
Staff Writer

Capping off a successful sea-
son this fall, Davidson Sailing trav-
eled to Gainesville, Fla. last week-
end to compete for the Armstrong
trophy in the SAISA (South Atlan-
tic Intercollegiate Sailing Associa-
tion) Fall Dinghy Championships.
Competition for berths to the cham-
pionships was strong throughout
the Fall season. :

Berths were determined by a
series of regattas held both in the
North and South sections of
SAISA. The top four competitors
from each section competed in the
championships.

Davidson raced against nine
other teams in the North Section,
ranking third overall. Section
leader, College of Charleston hand-
ily won the topranking in the North.
However, Davidson, Vanderbilt,
and The Citadel competed fiercely
for the remaining three slots.

Sailing for Davidson in the
first of these regattas, Will Beasley,
Steinen Gerla, Lindsay O’ Nell and
Brice Ivy safely took fourth in
windy conditions in Charleston.
Charleston, Vanderbilt, and The
Citadel all placed ahead, while
Davidson beat Duke, Tennessee,
N.C. State, and UNC-Wilmington.

The second regatta of the se-
ries was held at Davidson’s own
Lake Norman. A record ten teams
competed in the light and shifty
breeze, the newcomers being
Clemson and UNC Chapel Hill.
Barclay McFadden, Gerla, Griffin
Rankin, and Ivy captured third
place, losing only to Charleston
and Vanderbilt. The Citadel had
fallen and Davidson was itching to
beat Vanderbilt the following
weekend in Clemson. :

In conditions similar to the -

previous regatta at Davidson,
McFadden, Gerla, O’ Nell, and Ivy
once again placed third. Although
the team had finally obtained a

victory over Vanderbilt, The Cita-
del rebounded to capture second.

The overall. finishes in the
three regattas were not enough to
beat Vanderbilt, who ranked sec-
ond overall in the North. The
Citadel’s surge at the end resulted
in a tie for third place. Davidson
Sailing’s performance in all three
regattas broke the tie in its favor,
giving the Wildcats the third place
ranking in the North Section of
SAISA and a berth to the champi-
onships.

In district championships,
Davidson grabbed its highest place
ever. Graham Ernst, O’Nell, .
Beasley, and Ivy.easily dispatched
The Citadel. Davidson ultimately
prevailed in fierce competition with
Vanderbilt. Charleston placed first
while two teams from the South
section of SAISA, Eckerd College
and Florida, took second and third,
respectively. The top two finish-
ing teams move on to the Atlantic

Coast Dinghy Championships.

Women’s tennis looks to exciting spring

By Kerry Bropuy
Staff Writer

The youhg women’s tennis
team closed out another successful
fall season despite the absence of
players studying abroad this se-
mester.

Freshman and sophomore
players have seen ample opportu-
nity to participate and gain tourna-
ment experience over the past few
months, grabbing victories in sev-
eral regional team events.

“For a young team who’s two
captains are away, this group has
really showed their strength,” said
head coach Carolene Price. “The
Rolex results were outstanding, as
were other strong performances
throughout the fall season.”

The spring season is packed
with eight tournaments against
some of the top collegiate teams in
the nation.

The Wildcats anticipate a na-
tional ranking of 100 or higher in
1997. The women’s team also
hopes to advance to a top ten re-
gional ranking after being ranked

12th last year, and they look to

capture the Southern Conference

Championship in April.
Price believes the leadership

and experience of the returning
juniors and seniors will build on
the team’s fall season achieve-
ments.

