2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

S BRIEFS

Scarbo fills senatorial vacancy

Sophomore Mike Scarbo was sworn in as an independent senator during
last Tuesday’s SGA meeting after being elected by student government
members to fill one of two vacancies in the SGA Senate.

Scarbo, who also serves on the Union Board, says he sees his senatoria
position as an “opportunity for me to have more of a voice in the studen
government.”

Currently, one SGA independent senatorial position remains vacant.

SGA to investigate possible upgrade
of 24-hour communications center

SGA President Warren Buford has formed an ad hoc committee, chaired
by Junior Class Senator Saad Gul, to work with the Computer Center in orde:
to determine the possibility of improving the 24-hour communications cele
located in basement Chambers.

Buford says he would like to see 24-hour “access to a laser writer, copy
machine, [and other technologies] that students deem important,” and says he
believes that “Chambers is an ideal location” for such a facility.

Junior Class Social this Tuesday

Pizza will be served 10:30 p.m. in the Big Screen Room this Tuesday,
March 26, at the Junior Class Social.
The event is organized by Saad Gul, Junior Class Senator.

Need-based financial aid available

Students who did not receive néed-based financial aid in 1996-96 but plan ta
apply for 1996-97 should pick up application materials at the Financial Aid
Office by March 30, 1996

College Republicans hold:straw poll

Wednesday’s College Republican straw poll gave many Davidson students
their first opportunity to express a preference in this years Presidential and
gubenatorial races.

MONDAY, MARCH 25,1996

In the Republican primary,.national front-runner Bob Dole secured a!
easy victory with 58% of the vote. Lamar Alexander finished a strong secon
with 26%, despite having withdrawn from the race two weeks ago. Dole’
remaining two challengers, Alan Keyes and Patrick Buchanan, finished wit
5% and 1% respectively. As of now, only Dole remains in the race.

Over 85% of the students voting in the Republican governor’s race chose,
Richard Vinroot. Art Manning and Robin Hayes finished tied for second wit
4% each. In the Democratic primary, President Bill Clinton won nearl
unanimously with 98% of the vote, while perennial fringe candidate Lyndo
_| LaRouche received just 2% of the vote. Incumbent governor Jim Hunt, seekin,
his fourth term since 1976, ran unopposed in the Democratic governor’s race
Of 13 votes cast by faculty, President Clinton received 11, while Dick Lug:
received 2. For governor, Jim Hunt received 11, Richard Vinroot 1 and Robin
Hayes |.

Information on the Richard Vinroot campaign was abvailable on the
election tables, no representatives supplied information on Democratic candi-

dates.
Foros ae
Searoon, BBQ & Gatenine

. Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks,
our famous Barbecue and award winning Banana Pudding
PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

NEWS
—FACULTY SOUND OFF—

Where do you stand on the issue of minors?

My major concern about minors is that they will impact concentrations, which are a great part of Davidson.
I really like the interdisciplinary nature of them. The department as a whole voted last year not in favor of
minors.

—Biology Professor Verna Case

The Psychology Department will not be offering minors even if they are adopted college-wide.
—Pshchology Professor Ruth Ault

My gut feeling is that it won’t make much difference. I’m fairly neutral on the proposal, but I could be
persuaded either way. It’ll add administrative overhead to the registrar. But they would be beneficial in
helping some departments in upper-level courses.

—Physics Professor Wolfgang Christian

It might encourage some students to buy into the myth that more labels and categories on transcripts will assure
them employmentor graduate school acceptance. We don’t have the resources to accomodate that kind of goal.
—English Professor Sara Beasley

I think there’s no reasonable argument that minors will help students get jobs. That argumentis a fallacy. Small
departments like ours might risk losing majors if we have minors. I think there’s no intellectual coherence with
minors that isn’t already there [with concentrations]. There’s lots of room for concentrations to grow because
they offer something coherent.

—German Professor Scott Denham

Minors seem like a really good thing to me.
—English Professor Ralph Black

I don’t have a particular stance, but the issue of minors is a matter of educational policy that should be
considered by the faculty.

—Dean of Faculty Robert Williams

I’m 100% in favor of minors. We already have concentrations and the double major ... minors would [allow]
students to focus on an area, for example the fine arts, in which they are not majoring. I’ ve heard no arguments
against minors which have convinced me.

—Spanish Professor Lois Kemp

They seem like a fine idea to me ... I think it might convince a few students to take a few more classes in
mathematics. If there are minors, the math department might be interested in offering one in computer science.
—Mathematics Professor Richard Neidinger

Ihave real reservations about minors. One of my concerns is that we’ ve already reduced the courses necessary
for graduation. Concentrations [as opposed to minors] are designed to be spread across several disciplines.
... Students can take the courses in an area [without labelling their studies as a minor].

—History Professor Earl Edmondson

My view is that I don’t see any real need for or benefit of minors, but if the majority of students at Davidson
want them, I think it’s worth a try. There are good arguments on both sides of the issue. My word to students

’ in general is: ‘If you want them, find creative ways to let the faculty know that you do.’

—Religion Professor Lynn Poland

I don’t see why students are so anxious to have minors. Students can acquire the substance of a minor by simply
taking the classes. Neither I, nor many of the faculty see why the name ‘minor’ is so important to students ...
The name is of completely illusory benefit. In my opinion, it won’t add happiness to anyone’s career.

Any official agency is going to look at the transcript to see what courses were taken and what the performance
was in these courses.I think the faculty see a negative aspect to minors. Students should be free to take a variety
of courses outside of their major ... Minors may end up narrowing the experience of a liberal education.

—History Professor T.C Price Zimmermann

With the systematic treatment of majors and minors at Davidson, I like the idea of minors.
—Professor Emeritus George Labban

Several members of the faculty declined to comment and/or wished not to be quoted.

—Compiled by Catherine Anderson and Kirsten Recknagel

The PDabidsontatis still looking for
photography staff. If you like to take
pictures, we can help you take better ones.
Call John or Mary Clare - 2148

