THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5,1996 _—. 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER JAMES BERRY Copy Editor
MARY CLARE JALONICK CARRIE BLACKBURN

Asst. Arts & Living Editor

Associate Editor MARY TOWLES ALLISON Business Manager

TERESA WHITE KATHERINE HASH

oa Sports Editor. : ao
News Editor ; WILL: BRADSHAW Assistant Business Manager
CATHERINE ANDERSON CAROLINE BYNUM
Assistant Sports Editor
Assistant News Editors MICHAEL KRUSE Advertising Managers
NARESH NAGELLA BEN GRIFFIN
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL Photography Editor BONNER MEAD
JOSH GLAZER

Opinions Editor Circulation Manager

KATIE McKELVIE Asst. Photography Editor CHLOE BROOKE

ROBBIE LEE

Founded in 1914 :
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Ah | Midvwieters,

LETTERS

Working with
what we have

~

Davidson is a very small school. Davidson, NC is a very small town. Most of us like
. it this way. How cute. How perfect. How familiar.

Sometimes we find ourselves afraid to change.

“What is this Libertas?”

“What are they going to put in it?”

“We don’t need another newspaper.”

Why not? Davidson always has the potential to grow. Isn’t that why we are here?
We came to college so we could expand our minds, grow through ourselves, and rise to
new levels.of achievement, if

Rachel Cockrill jokes about how Davidson fosters regression. We must admit that
no matter how many classes we take, no matter how much we are taught to think
analytically or write skillfully, we can easily fall into a deep academic and social rut.

Go to Chambers. Think up a storm. Go to the library. Read volumes. Go to the
computer center. Write a short novel. Go to the Union. Eat a ton of Hohos. Go to the
Court, Drink a keg.

Maybe this isn’t everyone’s life. Some rebel; however, many walk this path for four
years, somewhat blindly.

Weren’t you happy when you found out about Cosmic Coffee? Caribou Coffee?
What about Breuger’s Bagels? The Stock Car Cafe? Kudzu? — Polly Griffin wants to
make our lives easier with a new phone system so we don’t have to wait all summer to
get our grades. And even plans for’ a new Union! It’s all about growing; it’s all about
change. 5

Change.

It needs to happen. It won’t, though, if no one takes the bull by the horns. Churchill
Hooff has dedicated most all of his Davidson career to reviving WALT, which will
officially begin broadcasting this week. At least 50 students broadcasters are going to
contribute their talents, some of which they don’t even know they have yet, to create
something.

We salute WALT. We salute the entrepeneurs who are attempting to give us
something else to do than gnome- SDOPPPInB: And we saluteLibertas, an idea that has
been a long time coming.

Libertas is not Davidson’s new newspaper; it is Davidson’ s answer to the dearth of
publications available to students. The Davidsonian has a different purpose and a
different personality. Libertas’’ first issue cleared that up for everyone. There was no
dramatic coup. Just an improvement upon the status quo, an opportunity to see Davidson
from a different perspective.

We say goodbye and thank you to Mandy, Bobby, William, and Russ and congratu-
late you on your new venture. We will now build on your successes as best as we can.

We also welcome Warren, Clair, Sara Beth, Jenny, Mecie, Katie, John, etc ... You
are our new student leaders. We put Davidson into your hands for 1996, and we challenge
you to build on a good thing, help it to grow and blossom into everything it can be.

We know you, we know you can do it, and we have faith in Pee and productive
change.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising

rates are available upon request. ‘Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College:|:

Join Wildcat habitat in
house-raising ceremony

To-the editors,

SO...

A. You want to get in-
volved somehow.

B. Helping others
sounds like a positive thing.

C. You can survive
about three hours without
checking your e-mail.

D. All of the above.

If any of these options
apply to you, then you may
be just right for participating
in the Wildcat Habitat ad-
venture as Davidson College
builds its first-ever Habitat
for Humanity house.

Come see what it is all
about at the House-Raising
Ceremony, which will be
held in conjunction with
Solidarity Week, at high
noon on February 10. The
ceremony — don’t worrry;
lunch will be provided —
will be held at the Wildcat
Habitat construction site on
Westside Terrace, at the base
of the water tower.

Look for directions on
the newly-repainted kiosk
(great job, H.T.!) in front of
the Union. And, when you
get to the ceremony, take
some time to meet the
Jettons, who have been cho-
sen as the family who will
live in the home.

So that they don’t seem
like strangers when you run
into them atthe House-Rais-
ing, let me tell you a little bit
about the Jettons. I had the

very enthusiastic about be-
ing a part of the as pro-
gram.

“Qur dream has been to
ownahome,’*Etheleen said.
“We found out about Habi-
tat througha friend atchurch,
and we applied a few years
ago. Habitat for Humanity
will help to put us on top
financially.”

Danny explained that
much of their money now
goes into the heating and
cooling of their present
house because “it is not in-
sulated enough.”

It is also getting kind of
small crunching an entire
family into a two-bedroom,
one-bathroom house.

Danny and Etheleen
have three handsome young
boys: Danny, Jr., is 12 and
takes his serene manner from
his namesake; Joey, four-
and-a-half, is wild, spunky,
and good-humored like his
mother; Kristopher, a very
cute one-year-old, is still try-
ing desperately to walk with-
out clinging to his parents’
fingers.

Fortunately, Joey is able
to attend the Headstart Pro-
gram at the Ada Jenkins
Center, so Kristopher is the
only one who needs
childcare.

Both Danny and
Etheleen work outside of the
home. Danny details cars
for Huntersville Chevrolet,

some more (“Sara, come
play with me!”),- tiny
Kristopher simply refused to
look toward the camera, poor
Danny, Sr., changedhis shirt
at least three times before he
decided on the appropriate
outfit, and Etheleen had her
happy hands busy trying to
get Kristopher into his
sweater and cap and making
Joey sit still once they were
posed.

The family will have to
put in 300 “sweat-equity” |
hours, in accordance with
Habitat’s policy. These
hours will include not only
manual labor on the house,
but also appearances at vari-
ous groups to help further
the cause. :

‘Then, they will be able
to share their experiences
with Habitat with groups
who will hopefully be per-
suaded to help out, just as I
hope that all of you will be
persuaded to help.

The Wildcat Habitat
was started this year. at the
suggestion of several stu-
dents who helped with the
project in Jacksonville,
Florida, over the summer.

A Habitat House Com-
mittee meets every Wednes-
day to plan fundraisers, edu-
cation opportunities and
other events. The commit-
tee is headed by Smita
Donthamsetty (-6730) and
Catherine Turner (-2460).

wonderful opportunity to and Etheleen works with in- Volunteers are needed
meet them recently, and it spection and repair in the for anything from making
was indeed a pleasurable manufacturingdepartmentat sandwiches for the workers,
experience. IBM. to putting up fliers, to baby-
Danny Jetton grew up She would like to be- sitting during home basket-
in Huntersville and gradu- comeabuyerforI[BMsome- ball games, to helping to
ated from North day. And, as a hobby, paint the house.
Mecklenburg High School. Etheleen enjoys selling jew- Pick up a volunteer ap-
Danny and Etheleen met in elry at flea markets. plication in the library or the
NY, and she moved down After our little inter- Union. This is a project de-
here withhimaftertheywere view, we walked aroundthe _ signed for the entire campus
married in 1986. Their per- inside and then outside of of DavidsonCollege, and we
sonalities complement each _ the house, taking picturesof must all work together on it.
other extremely well. thefamilyandoftheirhome. | Therearesomany ways
Danny is calm .and . Trying to get all of the chil- you can help; please get in-
quiet; he carefully watched drentositstillforthe family volved.
his playing children while portrait was quite a task.
we talked, always keeping Little Danny seemed
their actions in check. veryrelaxedaboutthe whole Sincerely,
Rtheleea: on the other hand, "process, butlovyxept want: __ Saralyn J. Damani °
