Che

ALENDA

bIDSE

%~UX UBI

1 an

OR TA Dis BRT As

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

MONDAY, AUGUST 26, 1996

VOLUME 88, NUMBER 1

Class of the millennium: ’00 descends on

By RANnpy HarTWELL

Associate News Editor

For their first Davidson ex-
amination, incoming freshmen
‘were asked to juggle.

Dean of Students Tom
Shandley noted the irony in his
midday welcome in Love Audito-
rium Thursday, but dispelled any
expectations of future tests and
reassured both students and their
parents of the rigor of a Davidson

education. “It gets better,” he said.

Nancy Cable, Dean of Admis-
sions and Financial Aid, also spoke
to this year’s freshmen class,
proudly citing its dimensions and
accomplishments.

This fall, freshmen hail from
38 states. Three come from Alaska,

one from Arizona, andthe Califor- ~

nia contingent is the largest in the
College’s history.

Forty-six students were ranked
number one in their high school

classes, and the Admissions Of-
fice estimates that 50 were num-
ber one or two in schools which
dori’t rank their students.

Twenty-six were salutatori-
ans, and approximately 80% of
entering freshmen were in the top
10% of their classes.

In the class of 2000, one stu-
dent was a national crew cham-
pion, rowing in two different boats.
One has performed 1000 hours of
community service. Another led

a community program to fight hun-
ger, making 100 lunches for needy
children every morning before
school. :

One freshman monitored
Internet-integrity in the Midwest,
while one wrote an original play for
public television.

One has directed a national
town meeting, and another chaired
a metropolitan DC area AIDS con-
ference.

One student has begun inter-

campus

viewing all living World War I
veterans, a project already ear-
marked for federal funding.

Cable told the standing room-
only crowd that “you have seized
opportunities. . . and we look for-
ward to your bringing all those
talents to bear for us at Davidson
College.”

Shandley echoed her warmly,
“You have never been inside
[Davidson] before. Now you are.
I hope it feels good.”

Computer

center moves
to Belk dorm

By Mary CLarg JALONICK
Executive Editor

Computer center die-hards
who head to their “home away
from home” across Main Street
this year will soon find that the
User Services Building is not quite
what they remember it to be.

Staff have taken the building
over completely, and the computer
lab has moved to the most unlikely
of places — Belk dorm.

A Physical Plant shop — and...
an old ROTC firing range "Has"
been converted to hold the campus
computer lab. The new center
boasts a greater number of com-
puters than the old USB, as well as
upgraded models. ‘

The move was due to an “‘of-
fice crunch,” according to John
Casey, Executive Director of In-
formation Technology. Two posi-
tions were added to the staff, so
the school decided to renovate the
Basement Belk area to hold the
computer lab. ‘We’ ve put the lab
closer to the center of student life,”
he says.

The area is around the same
size as the old computer lab. The
new lab has 45 machines, roughly
the same amountas the USB. How-
éver, all of the Windows machines
have been updated, and there are
now an equal amount of Macintosh
and Windows units. Macintosh
Word Perfect has been upgraded
from 3.1 to 3.5; Word Perfect for
Windows has been upgraded from
6.0 to 6.1.

The hours for the Student
Computing Center will be the
same. Students can enter the lab
only from an entrance adjacent to
the laundry parking lot; it is not
accessible from inside the dorm.

© Other services on campus are

Getting a Jumpstart
on Davidson

If the Class of 2000 hasn’t yet acclimated to Davidson, it won’t
‘be the fault of 1996 Orientation efforts. Associate Dean of Students
Leslie Marsicano, who headed the program, and her staff worked for
months preparing for the four-day event.

Marsicano said the new and improved orientation “was a success”
mostly thanks to the added innovation of an Orientation Team (OT).
One hundred upperclass students participated after returning to cam-
pus on August 18 to assist in readying for the arrival of freshmen.

- Team members performed jobs such as photocopying syllabi,
moving in new students, and leading book discussions — all the while
sporting custom-made Orientation Team baseball hats.

Freshmen seemed to appreciate them as they took part in such

“Small cheer and great welcome makes a merry feast’

—The Comedy of Errors, Shakespeare

Freshmen and their parents enjoy a tasty but toasty lunch on Chambers lawn Thursday just after registration. @7y Clare Jalonick

activities as a reggae band concert and the Class of 2000 Olympics,
which Erica Thorsen, ‘00, said “was rad! Second Rich won!” Andrew
Griswold said he felt oriented as well. “I got to carry couches for
Habitat, so I know where all the dorms are now.”

One new feature of orientation was the performance of scenes

SGA votes to charter IVCF

By KirsTEN RECKNAGEL
News Editor

In a move that escaped notice
late last spring, the Student Gov-
ernment Association (SGA) re-
versed its controversial decision not
to renew Intervarsity Christian
Fellowship’s (IVCF) charter. On
April 30 the Senate granted IVCF a
charter by a vote of 18 for, 12
against, and 3 abstentions.

A week earlier, voting 16-15,
Senators denied TVCF’s request
for charter renewal, citing recent
amendments to IVCF’s constitu-
tion which some Senate members
felt violated Davidson’s non—dis-
crimination policy.

_ Specifically, changes included
in IVCF’s constitution last year

dividuals should demonstrate lives
... free of ... sexual immorality,
including the practice of homo-
sexuality, orthe inappropriate prac-
tice of heterosexual activity out-
side of the marriage context ...”
(Article V, Section 1)

IVCF appealed the Senate’s
initial vote, requesting that mem-
bers of the SGA reconsider their
previous decision. The appeal read,
in part, “ ... the authority to inter-
pret College policies lies, ulti-
mately, with the Dean of Students
and the President of the College.
The amendments to the T1VCF Con-
stitution were made at the request
of the Dean of Students, with the
knowledge of the President.”

Until last year, no specific
mention of homosexuality was

upgraded and expanded, seestory | from Living on the Color Line, required reading of all freshmen. sussianl ehuie heise ais dhe tice “= {tind itt Maan con plinition.
on page 4. Il rime ei rete RTA
— Randy Hartwe leadership in this organization, in- See IVCF on page 3
: ARTS & LIVING.....11
‘Women in SPORTS )655055..5.: Saale
: : ) : : NEWS BRIEBB.............. 2
Finally, a Mineland’s the Wild CAMPUS CRIME........3. First Class Mail
. EDITORIAL.........-sss++ 5 U.S. Postage Paid ©
yearbook! gone away Kingdom OPINIONS. issssssnsensne 6 Permit #1
: LIFE IN HELL............ 6 Davidson, NC 28036
NEws 5 Sports 14 Bye, bye Backstreet,pg-2_ OPINIONS _9 || DIRECTORY........... ie

