12 - THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

CD Review

ERIC MATHEWS &

Fie Manne Ws

i papas Fritas

By Curis MANN
Staff Writer

In today’s grungy, lo-fi; nasty world of dull, noise-
making rock bands, Eric Matthews’ solo debut/t’s Heavy In
Here breaks the mold, Once a member of the equally heavy
band Cardinal, Matthews has branched off on his own to
further develop his highly orchestral style. /t’s Heavy In

Here could easily be mistaken for a George Martin — |

produced Beatles’ album. This polished product comes
from Portland, OR and is on Seattle’s Sub Pop label, hardly
a hotbed for clean — cut fellows who play harpsichord.
Although the opening track “Fanfare” includes regal trum-
pets to usher in this highly original work of art, much of the
rest of the album is rather delicate, somber pop. This fits
Matthews’ warm, liquidy voice to a tea: He also has a flair
for tight melodies and harmonies, and when coupled with
rich lyrics, the result is a vivid tapestry which has the power
to evoke real emotion. Take the elegant “Fried Out Broken
Girl,” for instance. To look at the lyric sheet, the words
might seem nonsensical, but Matthews’ voice mixes solely
with piano and trumpet works magically.

Jason Falkner (ex-Jellyfish, the Grays) provides exem-
plary guitar, bouncy bass, and even a little drum work

throughout the album to complement Matthews. Alterna-
tive Press has raved, “If you buy only one album this year to
see you through the darker phases of your life, this should be
it. Hell, buy it even if you’re not depressed; you’re still
going to love it.” I concur.

Papas Fritas means “french fries” in Spanish, but it also
happens to be the name of a band on Minty Fresh records.
Don’t worry, it’s not flamenco music, nor is it heavy. This
debut recalls those wonderful Cars or Talking Heads al-
bums I know you all grew up adoring, and features a Ringo
Starr sound — alike on drums. ‘Wild Life” is a fun little
ditty including hand-claps, sugary harmonies, a cowbell,
and even sleigh bells to go with the simple, hooky guitar riff.
“Passion Play” could ride on the Magical Mystery Tourbus
with it’s odd string arrangements and trippy feel. The lyrics
are mostly pretty humorous, tackling such pertinent issues
such as “TV Movies,” a 9-to-Ser’s lament (“Holiday”) and
the campy jaunts “My Revolution” and “Smash This World.”
At their best, Papas Fritas are right on the mark, their boy/
girl melodies just goofy and jangly enough to keep your
head bouncing and your feet tapping, but at their worst, and
especially on the last three tracks, this trio sounds like one
of those bad early “80s new wave bands you’d just as soon
forget about.

At the Clubs

———__. Music in two hours or less ————

A - Amos’s (Charlotte)
JS - Jack Straw’s (Charlotte)

T - Tremont Music Hall (Charlotte)
Z - Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem)
BHN - Be Here Now (Asheville)
This * means good stuff

Tuesday, Feb. 13
Derek Trucks Band* (JS; 16 year old lead guitarist
played w/ Allman Bros.) '

Wednesday, Feb. 14

Ani DiFranco (BHN; edgy vocals), Moon Boot Lover
(JS; one of the top bands from the Northeast), Leftover
Salmon w/ Dayroom* (T; LoS-polyethnic cajun
slamgrass, Dayroom-club rock); Candlebox (Z; new

grunge)

Thursday, Feb. 15
Big Stoner Creek* (JS), Elk (T; CD release night!)
Hobex (Z; Dillon Fence goes soul)

Friday, Feb. 16

Craven Melon (A; friends of Hootie), Sauitrel Nut
Zippers* (BHN; Charlotte’s modern swing), Violet
Strange w/ Schleigho (JS; punk with intelligence), Ani
DiFranco (T), Vertical Horizon w/ Doxy’s Kitchen (Z;
Carter Beauford plays drums)

Saturday, Feb. 17

Bus Stop (A), Blue Miracle (JS), AWARE* Music
Festival (Nashville, TN; 10 bands on or will be on
AWARE records, $7), Flat Duo Jets w/ Danielle Howle
& Tantrums* (T; rockabilly)

Sunday, Feb. 18

Hum w/ Mercury Red (T; smashed buzz)

By Wit Foy

Rising

from page 10
stalking grassland game, of police
beatings. “You tried to beat me to

death. You tried to beat the Africa
out of me.” The play was an

intriguing mixture of public and

private, alternating from the con-
fession of a crack-addict to an an-
gry lament for the babies killed by
the Oklahoma City bombing.
“Does it take a war or a disaster or
a madman with a bomb to bring us
together?”

The characters addressed at
various points during the evening
such contemporary figures as Rosa

Parks, Newt Gingrich, OJ Simpson,
and Susan Smith, and always, they
spoke to us — of fatherhood, of
manhood, of teacherhood. In one
classroom scene, acharacter styled
himself as teacher and the lesson
of the moment (for the evening
held many) was “What are You
Willing to Die For?” Educated
Davidson students and community

members had to answer “yes” or
no” to: color? crack? a friend? a

. flag? a million dollars? freedom?

The two “students” on stage imi-
tated our often mixed and waver-
ingresponses, and our teacher con-
cluded, “if you have nothing to die
for, you have no reason to live.”
A drama whose premise was
the Black Man in all his hardness

Session I:
Session I:

oN es = ai

Bea Carolina Tar Heel!

May 20-June 25, 1996
June 27-August 2, 1996

‘onian

Summer School
CB si 200 Petti

a oti tas a

Wh ting a catal d appli
we gp reques g pce cal Se nd applic sation, please mention seeing this ad in

tial
The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
Pai 1 Hill, NC_ 27599-3340
hone: 919-962-1

Fax: 919-962-2752
E-mail: summer_school@unc.edu

EEO Institution

acer
ace aeen

and complexity eventually focused
on the softness and simple solution
of love for the Black Woman.
During a worshipful,
Whitmanesque praise of woman
in all her shapes and sizes and
shades, oné performer left the stage
and approached freshman Rhina
Roberts, dropping to his knées to
speak softly and kiss her hand.

“We need a healing from the
White House to the Whore House
... The healing begins with you and
me ... We don’t need to wait for a
leader to follow.”

Black Man Rising , which
played an opening role in
Davidson’s Solidarity Week with
events through Saturday, is funded
by the non-profit organization Liv-
ing The Dream, Inc. and takes its
message to high schools and de-
tention centers, colleges and pris-
ons across the country.

