RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

rying Kape

The realities of rape at Davidson hide in the silent,
bucolic atmosphere that defines the campus and
blinds it to the pain of uncounted women.

By Teresa WHITE
Associate Editor

When I came to Davidson, I
was already familiar with date
rape. I personally knew several
girls in high school who had been
raped. Also, I had classes with
rapists and had to listen with dis-
gust to their gloating. So when I
came to Davidson, I expected
more of the same; I was pleas-
antly surprised. Date rape is not
lunch time gossip any more.

But it would almost be better
if it were. Most people I talked
withdon’tknow and haven’ theard

of anyone who has been raped at
Davidson.

Is rape really a problem at
Davidson? “I wouldn’t know,”
says freshman Michael Miga, echo-
ing around ten others I asked. “No
— well, I guess so. After hearing
the stories at Take Back the Night,

I’d have to say yes. But I don’t .

think that it’s Davidson students
we have to worry about ... it’s
people from off-campus,” says
sophomore Amanda Moore.
Even the Counselling Center
is not sure how much of a problem
rape on campus is. Because there
is no central record of reports, the

Pa Teresa White
Statistics show that one in four women will be raped during their

lifetime. 10%-30% of college women are victims of rape.

rapes brought to a counselor’s, a
dean’s, or a faculty member’s at-
tention go largely unnoticed. The
numbers are never consolidated or
recognized.

“‘We’ ve only had one official
report of rape to the Board of Sexual
Misconduct this year,” says Assis-
tant Dean of Students Leslie
Marsicano. “It’s hard to encour-
age people to come forward.”

“Five or so is normal for us
this time of year; but we know that
is just the tip of it. We are currently
working on programs to promote
reporting, awareness and preven-
tion of date rape and sexual as-
sault,” says Counseling Center Psy-
chologist DeWitt Crosby.

“We want to maximize
choices. But when we don’t know
what we’re working with—how
many or what kind of situations—
it’s hard to know how to handle,”
reiterates Marsicano.

Bésides shame, fear of being
forced into an unwanted legal situ-
ation, and just not knowing who or
where to turn, ignorance of the
definition of rape is another reason

‘for the lack of reports.

“T think a lot of girls don’t
realize that what has happened
could be called rape. Especially
when alcohol’s involved, I think
people just feel horrible in the
morning and never think about
calling it rape. But a lot of times,
that’s what it is,” says Junior Mor-
gan Todd.

So whatexactly is “date rape”?

“Well, it’s tricky to define,”
says Crosby. Indeed.

From the Procedure for Responding to a
Victim of Rape or Sexual Assault

Davidson Campus Police and Davidson College Student Health person-
nel are prepared to respond to a victim of rape or sexual assault, although
Assistant Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano is most often the contact person
for students. The Campus Police Office and the Infirmary are staffed 24 hours
aday. The Counseling Center staff provides emergency service at night and
on weekends. Call 559-3676 to page their beeper.

*Because of the Federal Campus Safety Act anyone not protected by
professional confidentiality is now required to report all rape cases to the
police. Protected staff include Counseling Center. Psychologists, the chap-
lain, resident advisors and hall counselors, Georgia Ringle, and Dean Marsicano.

From Part III, section H, of the Code of
Disciplinary Procedure

Options Regarding Sexual Misconduct

Prior to filing a formal complaint regarding Sexual Misconduct (as
defined in the Code of Responsibility), a student who is considering filing a
complaint may confer with a member of the Dean of Student’s Office to
determine the.availability of the following options:

a. To make criminal charges against the accused. The Dean of Student’s
Office will provide assistance in filing such charges should the student so
request.

b. To have the sexual misconduct complaint adjudicated by the Sexual
Misconduct Board.

c. To have the accuser and the accused resolve the issue in conversation
between themselves with members of the Dean of Student’s Office present.
If the accuser chooses this option, the accuser waives the right to have the issue
adjudicated by the Sexual Misconduct Board. The accused must be warned
at the outset that (a) although the accuser has waived the right to have the issue
adjudicated by the Sexual Misconduct Board, anything he says may be used
against him in disciplinary proceedings; and (b) that anything he says may
also be used against him in any criminal proceedings, though the college will
as a matter of policy seek to claim evidentiary privilege in respect of
communications with its students in disciplinary proceedings.

d. Other options such as counseling rearrangement of class schedule, etc.

e. To take rio further action.

“Date-rape” is not listed in the

1980 New World Dictionary, but it
lists rape as “the crime of having
sexual intercourse with a woman
or girl forcibly and without her
consent.”

The New Our Bodies, Our-
selves: A Book by and for Women,
says, “Rape is any kind of sexual
activity committed against a
woman’s will. Whether the rapist
uses force or threats of force is
irrelevant.”

According to Section V of the
Code of Responsibility, “Rape is
forced sexual intercourse that is
perpetrated against the will of the
victim; it occurs if one person uses
force or the threat of force to co-
erce another, regardless of the
relationship existing between them.
In acquaintance or ‘date’ rape, the
assailant may bé a casual acquain-

tance, classmate, date, or signifi-
cant other.”

Considering that most date
rapes involve alcohol, it is intrigu-
ing that “the threat of force” is'a
necessity for prosecution and that
the ability of the victim to say “no”
is not. The definition limits the
situation to attacks, when often -
victims are not coherent enough to
offer a struggle or refuse even ver-
bally — at Davidson, principally
because of alcohol and drug abuse,
but off-campus, mental retardation
is also a factor.

“T know someone who was so
drunk she couldn’t speak or move
and was in and out of conscious-
ness while he [had sex with] her,”
says sophomore Adrienne Nixon.
“That’s still rape ... Rape is more
of a problem here than anyone is
willing to believe.”

Fern Dayve transplants audience

By Jay Hupson
Staff Writer

, Tuesday evening Fern Davye gave a poetry perfor-
mance inthe 900 Room. Fern Davye travels about 250 days
each year reciting poetry at colleges and universities around
the nation.

Instead of reading her own poetry, Davye recites the
poetry of about 95 modern day poets from around the world.

At each performance Davye performs several poems from

"her collection of over 500.

Davye began her performance by walking around the
room looking every person in the eyes. She then invited us
to imagine that we were all attending an intimate dinner
party at her villa in the middle of a forest in New Mexico.
After a dinner of fine garlicky pasta she led us outside to
admire the red rocks and recite and discuss poetry.

By creating this illusion of being transplanted from the
900 Room to her home in New Mexico, Davye created a
more intimate atmosphere. This new atmosphere was more
like a conversation between dinner guests than a poetry
lecture where the audience and performer are separated by
a stage.

Davye does not just read the poems mechanically. In
the course of the poem she becomes extremely animated.
Her movements and voice are essential to her performance.

She jumps around, yells, whispers, and gets in her audience’s
faces. Her deep guttural voice was perfect for producing
harsh, barbaric growls as well as the most intimate whis-
pers.

The more provoking poems that were recited were two
of Pablo Neruda’s Cien Sonetos de Amor, Spanish for One
Hundred Love Sonnets. Apparently Pablo Neruda pre-
sented his wife with a sonnet proclaiming his love for her
every day for the first hundred days of their marriage. Fern
Davye recited the eleventh and twelfth sonnets.

After reading the eleventh sonnet, the crowd demanded
that she recite the twelfth. After the twelfth she discontin-
ued the series much to the dismay of several audience
members. One of the most intense poems of the evening was
one in a series of eighteen entitled Eighteen Elegies for
Rogerby Paul Monette. Davye recited the final poem in the
series. The entire set of elegies describes how Roger, Paul
Monette’s lover, died from complications by AIDS. Paul
Monette wrote the eighteenth elegy as Roger died. This
poem describes the feelings of the author — denial and love
for his departed lover— and sorrow that his friend had
passed away.

Fern Davye greatly entertained the small crowd that

had gathered to see and hear her perform. Her animated

gestures and recitations thrilled the crowd and left them
desiring more poetry.

PUTT'N ON THE PAINT

Students paint Union Outpost walls.

