THE DAVIDSONIAN °

ARTS & LIVING _

craves the old Sting

By JAMEs BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Sting’s music has never been
easy to pin down. Before, he led
by example, riding the first foamy
crests of New Wave along with the
Police and soon established a stan-

dard far above most 80s contem- —

poraries. But more recent work
attracts few imitators because of
its strength and singularity. Since
his solo debut (The Dream of the
Blue Turtles), Sting has repeatedly
bent genre to his whim, spawning
a collage of styles that declares
loyalty to none in particular. And
though it doesn’t meet the expec-
tations set by previous albums, this
year’s Mercury Falling (A&M
Records) continues the tradition.

Sting follows the radio-
friendly Ten Summoner’s Tales
with obvious hope for repeated
success. Mercury’s lyrical themes
meander along the same lines and
remain, for the most part, conven-
tional: pining over lost love, as-
serting independence, and reassur-
ing continued affection. But we
are talking about Sting, so we
can’t expect an attitude entirely
main stream. The country/western
fixation that started with “Love is
Stronger Than Justice (The
Manificent Seven),” and carried
through “This Cowboy Song,” re-
turns in such songs as “I Hung My
Head,” “I’m So Happy I Can’t,
Stop Crying,” and “Lithium Sun-
set.” The haunting melody of
“Valparaiso” safely avoids any
semblance of the typical by defy-
ing its listeners to find the beat
while Sting croons about a
seaman’s ‘felationship with his
wife.

Sting!

From the beginning, Sting’s
lyrics tended toward political sub-
jects as heard on “Russians” but
this is little represented on Mer-
cury. Also, the darkly personal
confessions of The Soul Cages
have been cast off in favor of an
upbeat wit applied to various situ-
ations, the reason for which may
lie within the words. In “I’m So
Happy I Can’t Stop Crying,” Sting
asserts, “[e]verybody’s got to leave
the darkness sometime.” By doing
so, he has created an accessible, if
watered down, mix of the familiar
and the eccentric.

Though Ten Summoner’s
Tales marked a change in lyrical
style, and the songs stubbornly re-
fused to relate to one another (Sting
justified his decision by citing
Chaucer’s Canterbury Talesas his
model for the album), Tales’ mu-
sic still had layered guitars and
distinct instrumental parts support-
ing the central melody. Mercury
Falling falls short in many respects.
On two of the ten songs, Sting’s
vocals don’t stray from the instru-
mental melody. Where is the coun-

terpoint between guitar, strings, °

and vocals as heard on “Mad About
You”? What of the driving silli-
ness in “Shadows in the Rain” or

even the mellow, haltering “Seven
Days”? Mercury’s mosaic lacks
the complexity and integration of
its predecessors.

Every artist acknowledges the
influence of past artists or musical
trends, but Sting’s tribute, through
manipulation of style, remains un-
equaled. The cut and paste tech-
nique that started with Turtles still
works, and Mercury’ s musical con-
glomerations often break into a
soulful bridge or a lounge-influ-
enced chorus, tempting us with
short bursts of the bizarre, while
the verse wanders the familiar path
of everyday pop. Of course, inher-
ent within all of the music is alittle
unidentifiable “Sting” that can’t
be categorized—the same Sting
who fronted the Police and thereby
ascended the throne of rock god-
dom. His experiments with time
signature introduce musical ideas
completely alien to rock. “I Hung
My Head” bounces along with a
catchy, though shifting, guitar part
and listeners used to a steady beat
must grasp at Sting’s vocals for
fear of being left by the wayside.
It’s a refreshing change from the
ironically labelled “Alternative”
music that floods airwaves with a
homogenous blend of inane pop.

Mercury Falling sounds far
better than a work in progress, but
something seems absent nonethe-
less, Whether it lacks the passion,
the political voice of youngerdays,
or the insistence for quality, the
difference can be heard. Sting’s
music is still unique and compel-
ling. But he’s starting to relax,
starting to get comfortable, which
might flush the excitement and
exterminate the edge important to
making good music.

Women compare
roles, feminism

By Emity SMITH
Staff Writer

Recently, the discussion of
gender relations women’s issues
has been a dominant topic of de-
bate on campus. However, this
subject is often limited to concerns
in the United States or on
Davidson’s campus. Students are
rarely mindful of the obstacles fac-
ing women that transcend our bor-
ders.

Wednesday night, four inter-
national students offered Davidson
the opportunity to broaden their
awareness of gender issues. Spon-
sored by the Dean Rusk Program
in International Studies, the Inter-
national Women’s Panel members
addressed currenttopics and shared
insights on their respective coun-
tries. Their candid responses to
questions of marriage, ‘occupa-
tional roles, domestic abuse, and
body image revealed the variation
in topics confronting women
around the globe. Areas repre-
sented were the former Soviet
Union, Ethiopia, India, and East
Asia.

Panelists noted the small scale
of feminist movements in their
countries. In fact, many underde-
veloped nations do not even use
the term feminism. The concentra-
tion is on bettering life for women,
not seeking equality. The male is
essentially absent from the topic of
women’s rights. Instead, women
are fighting for improvements in

family planning and employment.

Because women must work to sup-
port the family income while main-
taining their domestic role as
mother and wife, their life is actu-
ally more difficult than the male’s.

Women can easily find em-
ployment in the Soviet Union.
Unfortunately, available jobs are
stereotypical “women’s” roles.

One panelist described a newspa- ~“

‘per advertisement that read, “Sec-
retary wanted: 18-24 year old fe-
male. Must be good looking.”
Freshman Samia Mohammed
said that genderrelations are gradu-
ally becoming more liberal in
Ethiopia. Although her own par-
ents had an arranged marriage, she
made it clear that she would not
have one. The traditional arranged

images,
abroad

marriage is slowly becoming ob-
solete, and young women now have
a voice in choosing their spouse.
Junior May Kee went on to address
the subject of divorce in East Asia.
Men have the option to marry and
divorce as they please, but women
remain irreversibly branded if they
get a divorce. She described the
tragic case of an educated and suc-
cessful doctor who chose suicide
over divorce, .

Perhaps the biggest contrast
between the US and the countries
represented is the issue of body
image. Mohammed said that the
obsession women in America have
with their bodies is difficult for her
to understand. In Ethiopia, most
social activities include eating, and
skinny” woman are definitely not
considered models for other
women to follow. Mohammed is
still amazed at the rituals of exer-
cise and rollercoaster-dieting that
are prevalentamong young women
in our society. May Kee said that
the ideal Chinese woman is five
feet tall, demure, and obedient.
Obviously, this ideology is not a
reality for most women.

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

13

By Dorcas AND MADGE

Call 1-900-FREE-LUV for intimate psychic counseling.

Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 19)—Were you evera congressional page? You need
to slow down and stop leaving a trail of fire behind you everywhere you
go. Consider investing in futures-think soy. Soy, soy, soy!

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—There is only one solution to a Rubix Cube. Go
to Fred Astaire Dance Studio and learn a new saraband. Begincollecting
aggies and steelies. They rock and roll. ;

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Encounter with a fiddler crab is imminent. Be
nice to this crab, he does not have cooties even though he has that big
claw. Greet him bearing a Lady-slipper. It’s a flower, you can ask W.T,
Lammers about that.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— They have great Dickies at Target. They are
great for the cold weather we have been having. You should also
consider buying a farthingale. THEY ARE BACK, by popular demand.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Beware of filter feeders— they are phlegmatic,
but their baleen is threatening. Roar a sigh of relief Lion, they do not
subsist in Loch Norman.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— Yentl is not a good movie. Those
late fines are not worth it. A tundra buggy is worth it for you this
week. Or a good prairie schooner, They just don’t make ‘em like
they used to.

Libra (September 23-October 22)— Get to know the Seven Wonders of the
Ancient World. . . The Collosus at Rhodes, the Mausoleum of
Halicarnassus, the Hanging Gardens of Babylon, etc. Think cocktail
party conversations. :

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— This weekend weigh your whelk
which was wiggling wildly while your whippet whined. We, weevils,
welcome weeny weasels weaving white carpets. We warrant a war-
weeping warthog in Wolverhampton.

Sagittarius(November 22-December 21)— You must know that you are not
an owl. All you are doing is hurting your neck with all of this silliness.
Your Shattneresque antics will work in your favor on Tuesday at four.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Cup and saucer races are jolly good
fun. Imbibe a hot toddy before going to bed every night thisveek. Mind
the Gap, sly boots.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Revamp your room, it is not worth a
tinker’s damn. Follow the crafty sloth who is better than any divining
rod. He will lead you to water, although it may take time, itis worth your
effort.

Pisces (February 19- March 20)— Take a poultice-making class. Sign- ups at
the Union. Some suggested ingredients: cream of tartar, saffron threads,
a jellyfish, witch hazel, nightshade, mandrake root, cinnabar, dry ice,
and Mello Yello.

THE Crossword
ACROSS tT 72 13 | 6 fe Yo pit ji2 713.
1 Penny }
5 Impurities of 14 16 i
molten metal +7 1)
10 As blind as —
14 Medicinal plant fag 23
15 Traveled way
16 Cord 26 26
17 Bathe
18 Failed auto 27 |26 |29 30 eT 32 (33 134 |
19 Girl
20 Bums brightly 35 * 37 38
22 Frogs-to-be -
24 Otherwise ae bed s bd
26 Anchor js a4 as 46 147 cr)
27 Unspoken
31 Des — 49 7) st] $2
35 Simian creature é
36 Illegal burning $3 s4 55
38 Memorize
39 Loch — monster [5 }§7 |5# tN be i [Ab icra bos
41 MacGraw the ea rg 66 a7
actress
42 — quanon 69 70
43 In a — (fast)
45 Pulls ve 72 73 |
48 Contend Sake as ;
49 Mental health 1995 Tnbune Services, inc
51 Antlered animal nafs reserved.
53 Servant
55 Old Greek ANSWERS
portico
3 oo 10 Weapons PIRIEIE SIM 30S Be via a
64 Injury storehouses ‘Olt luli Bniow via—visisiv
65 Certain contract 11 Seethe Hivioin Mi alsivia iM iiuinn
67 Ark builder 12 Church pan sisis|tmiMsigja(viivie a:
68 On the ocean 13 Hardy character ViOlL'sMalilvin
69 Friend to 21 Fitzgerald MIS(TIOIN MISE RB AIL) VIN wis
Pythias 23 Natatorium SILIABBSININ|ViIAMBaioltie 2
70 Thr 25 Composition ‘SIN t's tiv SiS 3.N
71 Signofsorrow 27 Things desired NiulviallMNioisivivEa av
72 Small, crested 26 Musical sia : T L
ducks entertainment va ‘ on Sis 3 a
73 Canine cry 29 Vamish O;OiIndB ais: ja
ingredient ‘Slalwoldioivis Mi siajmvia.s'
DOWN 30 — system S|S't|WE3:sialamaaiv 4
1 Leg part 32 Artless a}diO|U Ra iinioiu a;0'l Vv
2 Israeli airline 33 Tennessee — slvielv—isisio wiafa'nia o
3 Variable star Ford :
4 Abounded 34 Scomful look 50 Succumbs 58 Length times
5 Bureau 37 Playing cards 52 Delicately width
6 Stewart or 40 Oriental sword beautiful 59 Identical
Serling 44 And others: 54 Reverie 61 Painful
7 Eject abbr. 56 The thing there 62 Airplane part
8 Kindofengine 46 Feline creatures 57 Misleading 63 Boutique
9 infrequently 47 Kind of tire action 66 Scatter seed

| Happy Birthday Catherine, you KArazy nut! |

