~ OPINIONS

10

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1996

When I tell people at Davidson
that I am a feminist, I generally
elicit a variety of confused and
negative responses. When I was
thinking of being a Women’s Stud-
ies major through the Center,
people usually asked me why.

One person said, “That is not
areal major, and besides, what are
all of you feminists complaining
about anyway. Men and women
are pretty much equal.” It is pre-
cisely this level of ignorance that
infuriates me. I also often encoun-
ter comments like, “So, are you
one of those angry feminists.” I
then usually explain carefully that
Iam not “angry” in order to break-
down the stereotype of the mili-
tant, intimidating, extreme, radi-
cal feminist.

I have historically been very
interested in making people under-
stand the stigma attached with the
word feminism. I have wanted
people to know that there are many
schools of feminism, each of them
very different. I also did not want
to put people on the defensive. I
now have a new objective in that I

‘ent to anyone

Sabine Heller

Yes, I am an angry feminist

eyes— Iam too irritated to want to
take the time to constantly qualify
my statements. Any person who
has access to a newspaper, maga-
zine, television, or radio has no
business to snidely question the
validity of feminist concerns. The
level of op-

lim witnesses. She also has to
prove that she has led a pure and
proper life and that she is not a
“habitual”— a person whois in the

habit of having sex. The only way"

for her to prove her “cleanliness”
is if two fingers cannot be inserted

other countries, rape is used as a
weapon against fathers, husbands,
and brothers. Recently a woman
who was in her eighth month of
pregnancy was gang raped by 26
men and then paraded around the
community naked. The men were
trying to hurt

pression that
women _ all
over the world
suffer is appar-

The level of oppression that
women all over the world

her father’s
pride. Shortly
after, there
were two al-
most identical

_who bothers to rapes. In all
look. ° three _inci-

ror he SUffer is apparent to anyone ens, ine
sake of sim- women’s
plicity, I will noses were
expound upon who bothers to look. also cut off in
the issue that : order to hu-

provided the
impetus for me to write this article.
(It is incidently one of the many
issues that plague women today)
Did you know that women in Paki-
stan who are victims of rape are
generally sent to jail? They are
charged with zina , sex outside
wedlock. In order for a woman to
prove that she was raped she has to

simply want people to open their provide four “respectable” Mus-

into her vagina with ease. This
makes it almost impossible for a
married woman to prove that she.
was raped. Approximately 75% of
all women in Pakistan’s jails are
there because they were rape vic-
tims. Once in custody, 72% of
them are raped again by members
of the police force.

In Pakistan, as well as in many

miliate them
further. The police did not investi-
gate any of the cases.

Another shocking story is one
of a. grandmother who refused to
rent out a room in her house to a
policeman. She was gang raped,
throughout the night, by what she
perceived to be about 50 police-
men. In the morning she was

_ dragged in the street, beaten with

a leather whip and then taken to a
local police station where she was
charged with Zina. By the time she
was finally incarcerated, she was
covered in blood, unable to walk or
speak, and her health was perma-
nently damaged... —

‘ Violence against women is not
something that is isolated to Paki-
stan. In many parts of the world
genital mutilation is still perva-
sive, female babies are killed, wives
are burnt, and girls are sold into
prostitution, slavery, and child

pornography. Even in the United

States one in four women are sexu-
ally assaulted at least once in their
lives.

It is important for people,
both men and women, to under-
stand that many “women’s issues”
are human rights issues and should
be regarded as such. It is essential
that the issues surrounding the
feminist movement should not be
trivialized. Each person who
laughs at’ feminism is trivializing
the agony of the pregnant woman
or the grandmother in Pakistan, or
perhaps even the agony of his/her
own mother, sister, or grandmother.

Nina Blount

It’s just S.A.D.D.

Ihave diagnosed myself as a chronic sufferer of S‘A.D.D. (Senior
Attention Deficit Disorder). Stay with me. This is what class-time is
like for me these days: “Now playing left field... NINA’S BRAIN.”
Seriously. Are there any other seniors out there who look at their notes
after class and see the date at the top:and that’s it? At this jumping-
off point in our lives, focus is key. I’ve been focussing on the Dukes
of Hazard at 4 and 7 pm daily.

I’ve been focussing on the fact that I’ ve eaten spaghetti for the last
six nights in a row and that my resume needs doctoring. I think about
things like the Yamkees, buying a new suit, my family, spring break,
- sophomore boys, getting a job, how much work Ihave, didsoccer win,
does Apartment F need all those lights, are people who hate Dave
Mathews on the antibandwabon bandwagon, what are some new and
exciting ways I can prepare spaghetti, etc.

The problem is that I think about these things IN CLASS.
Probably not my best look. Especially since this is the first semester
I’ve had all four of my classes be completely interesting and enjoy-
able. For some reason, I’ ve finished my requirements, and now I have
the attention span of a four-year-old child. It’s unfair.

I take some solace in the fact that I have noticed this trend in some
of my fellow seniors. Pretty much every time a senior gets called on
in any of my classes, the teacher may as well have asked Rain Man to
answer the question, They do the Ihaven’t-done-the-reading dance,
flipping through the book as if looking for a quote. Please. We’re
fooling no one. I would attempt to form a support-group for seniors
who suffer from $.A.D.D., but the meetings would have to be about
eight minutes long, because that’s about as long as I’d be able to pay
attention. Maybe my colloquium could be split into fiftenn sessions
per week, each lasting eight minutes........ but it’s not likely. Under-
classmen, you may think you have F.A.D.D., Soph. A.D.D., or
J.A.D.D. but those afflictions are just nothing in comparison. S.A.D.D.
is a plague on the class of 1997. .

However, if we ban together, we can make it. We can finda cure.
I fear, though, that graduation may be the only real answer. It could
be worse....like I say to freshmen: 1980 was a great year to be ONE
YEAR OLD. Good grief. For now, be young, have fun, pay attention.
Class may go slowly, but the year will fly.

Don’t be afraid. If you don’t write, then no one will ever
know what you are talking about. And neither will you.

Opinions, — 2148

Christina Thomas

What’s black, white, |
and all over Davidson?

Campus Police pride them-
selves on the safety of this campus,
but it is not safe I tell you! Iam not
one to be afraid—I am a medic who
spends a large part of each week-
endin the streets of Charlotte where
crack deals go awry and you learn
how to dodge bullets and spot a
blade from a mile away... butlam
rarely so terrified as I am when I
walk around this
campus at night. Let

ing me around the track and I was
sprinting like an olympian. Ratio-
nale told that me that it couldn’t
win the race because I had longer
legs, and it must have told the
skunk the same thing because after
fifty meters he gave up chase. I
slowed toa walk and kepton around
the track, highly ticked that this
skunk had totally ruined my run-

giving up.

Finally, I dropped my keys,
and he stuck that tail up in the air
like he was going to chase me
again. I stood there, ready to run,
and he, quick as a whip, turned and
ran off towards the library. Isighed,
and tried to finish my run, but
every time I saw a shadow, my
heart started racing again. That
night at the track I
saw two more

me tell you what
happened to me.

Was it to come down

skunks. They are
all over the place.

Two weeks ago i And now I ask
I was running on the to this? Vil do a lot for my you: Do you feel
track late at night (I : same safe walking to the
know Iwas kindof mastercard, but was I willing library tate at
asking for it by do- night? That area,

ing so, but. . .) and
was about to start
around the far curve

to fight a skunk for it?

especially, _is
crawling with
them. As a friend

when I spotted acrit-

ter in the middle of the end field.
The lighting there, as you probably
know, is anything but adequate
and the first thing that I thought
was,“‘Damn, that’s a big squirrel!”
Iran on around and came back up
upon the curve again to see that the
critter, now about fifteen feet from
the edge of the track had a bit of
white on its head.

A feeling of terror struck me
when I realized that the “damn big
squirrel” was a skunk and it was
sticking that tail straight up in the
air in its fighting stance. The next
thing I knew, that skunk was chas-

ning routine.

Upon coming around the gym-
side curve I realized that the skunk
still wanted to do battle with me.
My key ring (which had attached
my license, ID, and mastercards)
over in the stands was in the mouth
of the skunk and he was trying his
best to drag it away. Was itto come
down to this? I'll do a lot for my
mastercard, but was I willing to
fight a skunk for it? Damn skippy
I was. It was a duel. I inched for-
ward and inched backward. Time
stopped and my will and the will of
the skunk battled. I knew I wasn’t

of mine said
“(when I walk back to my dorm
from the library] I just hope for the
best every time.” Why must so
many skunks run free around this
place? Who wants to be sprayed
by one? They’re not shy— they’ ll
do it. Those things are scary! I'd
rather be in the worst part of Char-
lotte on a full moon than trying to
walk around at night! I’ll stand by
my statement— this campus is not
and will not be a safe place to live
and play and study until something
is done about the skunks!
Campus police take note—here
is your challenge!
