THE DAVIDSONIAN

ss MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996 7

The Pavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor Copy Editor
JOHN COPENHAVER JAMES BERRY CARRIE BLACKBURN
MARY CLARE JALONICK :
Asst. Arts & Living Editor _ Business Manager
Associate Editor MARY TOWLES ALLISON KATHERINE HASH
TERESA WHITE
rae we Cee Editor Assistant Business Manager
ews Editor RADSHAW CAROLINE BYN
CATHERINE ANDERSON i
Assistant Sports Editor Advertising Managers
Assistant News Editors MICHAEL KRUSE BEN GRIFFIN _
NARESH NAGELLA 5; BONNER MEAD
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL Photography Editor
se JOSH GLAZER Circulation Manager
Opinions Editor CHLOE BROOKE
KATIE McKELVIE Asst. Photography Editor

ROBBIE LEE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

~— Po

—

_

—

—~

wention Wad one, Newla curtomat —

The religion question

Maybe 1996 is a year for conservatives as well as progressives. Maybe The United
States of America is a land where private entities can make their own decisions based on
the fact that capitalism governs us, and we, as consumers, can make our own choices
about what we want in our investments.

However, as students wanting to acquire the best education possible in a diverse
world full of many different religions and beliefs, we hope that Davidson will prepare us
to appreciate all points of view. :

And as the all-powerful decision makers at Davidson, we hope that the trustees will
keep that in mind.

Last Friday the Board of Trustees voted to maintain ties with the Presbyterian
Church. This will affect few students’ academic careers.. In fact, it will probably help

the average student, for the Presbyterian Church gives us funding to augment our
academic careers here.

But the trustees’ Ad Hoc Committée on Church Relations has only taken a baby step
in the direction of seriously addressing religious issues at Davidson.
This huge issue is not to be taken lightly.
In October, the SGA polled its members to see what the general feeling was
regarding three separate religion issues.

Members voted 18 to 12 that the president should remain Presbyterian. However,

only two people voted “no” to each of the questions: “Should the requirement that trustees
be active members of a church be removed?” and “Should the requirement that religion
professors be required to be active members of a Christian church be removed?”
Students heatedly debate whether the president should be Presbyterian. The
consensus is splitdown the middle. People on both sides can argue valid points until they
are blue in the face, and still many students remain undecided.
The president is, among other things, a figurehead, and if the school is to maintain

ties with the Presbyterian Church then it is understandable why some members of the :

Davidson community would like to see him (or her) be a member of that church.
But the religious affiliation of trustees and religion professors?

Trustees are supposed to represent the student body in all of their important decisions |

regarding the future of the school. Davidson actively recruits students of all different
backgrounds, so why should our governing unit only embody one segment of our
population?

And, most unbelievable, professors teaching classes about Judaism or Buddhism are
not even allowed by Davidson to be members of those religions? How hypocritical.

Not to say that the professors who teach these classes are not the most qualified
candidates for their positions. Their Christianity. does not impede their teaching, and our
religion professors undoubtedly know more about non-Christian religions than most
advocates of the religions themselves.

But why does this not work both ways? The policy was most likely instituted to base
the Davidson education on Christian values. But does this not seem outdated when aclass
satisfying the cultural diversity requirement (which all students must have) must relate
to a non-Christian country or ideology?

The SGA, as abody that directly represents the student body, held the thee question
poll in October in order to roughly vocalize student views on the issue. We hope that
trustees will take this voice into account, for we, as adults, know what religion means to
Davidson. The vote regarding the president shows that religion is in no way a flippant
issue here.

As the trustees prepare for their meeting April 19, we hope that they will seriously
and thoughtfully consider all sides to this very complicated, very emotional, and very
meaningful debate.

The Davidsonianis published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address fan mail and correspondences to: The Davidsonian,

P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our;
offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editor or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of
the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian, Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising
rates are available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Keep your soldiers

in order

To the editors,

One of the soldiers fell
out of line last night. He
looks pretty lonely all by
himself in my backyard, all
dressed up in his red plastic
uniform, emblem of his in-
clusion in the Solo Multicol-
ored Party Brigade. Every
weekend, and often on week-

nights as well, the MPB
marches down Delburg

Street, on its happy way to
that evening’s mission. The
next morning reveals their
tragic end: soldiers blue,
yellow, and red all in a line,
expired during the march,
never making it to the party,
left behind without cer-
emony or burial.

I don’t know why this

one lost soldier, tossed per-
haps as a token funeral over
the bushes into my yard, fi-
nally makes me write. After
all, a single plastic beer cup
is not as dangerous as the
broken beer bottles at the
edge of the yard where my
children play, not as diffi-
cult to explain as the box of

condoms fallen by the hedge
of trees for my children to

puzzle over, not as distaste-
ful as the generals of the
MPB who think the trees
bordering Delburg a conve-
nient rest room.

Perhaps it was the sug-

gestion of forethought in-

volved in what are essen-
tially just acts of thought-
lessness. So I ask you to

remember the next time you
walk down Delburg (or any-
where else off campus, for
that matter): children play in
the yards that border those
streets, they examine the
detritus and wonder why
you, theircollege-aged idols,
don’t know enough or care
enough not to throw trash —

ey ae

stuff around that their mother
doesn’t explain to their six
and three year old’s satisfac-
tion.

Sincerely,

Jeanne Neumann
O’Neill

Assistant Professor of
Classics

Express yourself

To the editors:

Last week, I stepped
into the shoes of the infa-
mous El Jefe and took over
as the Opinions Editor of
The Davidsonian. I was (and
still am) very excited to be-
come a part of the paper’s
staff after writing a number
of Opinions articles this fall.

* However, now thatlam
steeped in the duties of Opin-
ions Editor, I see what a
tough job Jeffhad. It’s tough
to put together a page each
week when hardly anyone
submits articles.

I find the lack of Opin-
ions pieces submitted each
week rather amazing. I’m
fairly certain that Davidson
students have some vehe-
ment opinions on campus
life and the world in general.
Why don’t more students
want to express their opin-
ion?

Could it be timidity?
Fear of being branded acom-
plete loser? Too much work
todo something extra? What
lame excuses. Writing an
article is just not a big deal
no matter how you slice it.

For the amount of
overacheivers on this cam-
pus you’d think that six or
seven students a week would
overcome such petty ob-
stacles and write a short ar-
ticle. Yet, for me, it’s a
struggle to find enough ar-
ticles to fill two pages.

As for faculty, two
weeks ago I slaved over a
hot photocopy machine to
make 208 copies of a letter
requesting articles for the
Opinions section. Ieven got
a papercut stuffing 208 let-
ters in your 208 mailboxes.
As of today, three of you
have responded.

Back to student partici-

pation. So far, the dozen or
so students whom I have
approached about writing an
article have been very en-
thusiastic. —
Unfortunately, how-
ever, I only know so many
people. I’m sure there are
many of you who have at

-some point wanted to write

an article but just haven’t
gotten around to it.

To all of those people, I
urge you to submit an Opin-
ions article. With your extra
effort, the quality of the
Opinions section will im-
prove greatly. Most impor-
tantly, however, you’ ll make
my job easier.

Sincerely,
Katie Mc Kelvie, ’96 ©
Opinions Editor
