OPINIONS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996 — 9

THE DAVIDSONIAN
F A C U L T Y V O I Cc E With Valentine’s Day rapidly - Still, there is only one way they’ Il
approaching I thought it might be a 1 : ever know.
good idea to discuss a topic that Tripp Franklin Here are my modest offer-
Sara Beasley seems to bother a lot of people here ings for a solution. First, bring
at Davidson.

Why a Women’s Film Festival?

Ever since a small group of students, advised informally by a
couple of faculty members, began planning a women’s film festival
at Davidson, this question has been asked.

Now that the festival is off and running, and now that ithas drawn

large and appreciative audiences, I would like to offer some answers |-

to this deceptively simple question.

First, why a festival of film? For one thing, film is the medium :

of choice for the current college student, who is as likely to ponder
going to film school or writing a'screenplay as she is to contemplate
working for First Union or going to law school. Several Davidson
courses include or feature film as a subject of scholarly study.

Film, we thought, also offers great flexibility and wide accessi-
bility. Film festivals are growing in number, and thus in influence in
the US, and indeed, all over the world. For many young and unknown
filmmakers, a film festival is their best shot at securing funding for
future projects. In this dark time of increasing attacks on the
entertainment industry — and the ominous hobbling of the National’
‘Endowment of the Arts by Congress — we felt it crucial to present to
the Davidson community dynamic examples of the best in recent
films.

Next, and more complicated: why a festival of “women’s films”?
And what do we mean by “women’s films,” anyway? Most of the
festival films are directed by men, a fact that merely reflects the
economic realities of the movie marketplace. Only a handful of
female directors can claim commercial success or any degree of
notoriety. So we strove to find the best we could from among the few
films directed by women, and we also aimed to showcase those films
by male directors that were interested in female characters (Pedro
Almodévar’s Women on the Verge, for example) and those that
presented thought-provoking reversals of the usual gendered relation-
ships (John Dahl’s The Last Seduction).

We, as a college community, recently have given renewed
attention to the “gender gap” here at Davidson, thanks to the student
publication Libertas, and, I would like to think, thanks to this first-
time women’s film festival. In conversations with my students, male
and female, I hear wonder at this emphasis on women, and on gender
inequities. They just do not “see” it. To my eyes, such inequities are
everywhere, and they cut in both directions: Davidson men and
women suffer equally from’severely circumscribed opportunities for
social and intellectual interactions. Men do not seem well-acquainted
with issues of female sexuality and identity; women seem not to see
their male counterparts as people they can be friends with, and to.

These “women’s films” offer us all an opportunity to see differ-
ently. They offer us glimpses of lives unlike ours — and in cultures
unknown to most of us — a chance to peek at the nuances and
subtleties of what it might be like to be “other,” just for a time.

Replace the familiar images and stereotypes of men and women.
Widen the possibilities and increase our common ground. I invite
you, I implore you, to join us for the remaining films in the festival.
Come, and change the way you look.

That issue? Male/female rela-
tions.

Idon’t think it’s any secret that
there appears to be tension between
the sexes on campus. In discussing
this matter with friends, Ihave heard
many possible opinions and expla-
nations concerning this disturbing
phenomenon.

Some of those I’ ve spoken with
believe romantic relationships can
and do exist. Those some, how-
ever, were in the minority of those
whom I’ve discussed this with.
Most are very skeptical as to this
possibility.

Some, such as my roommate,
are very cynical and think itis nearly
impossible to have a healthy rela-
tionship with a member of the op-
posite sex at Davidson. While I
don’t necessarily agree with him, I
do believe a problem exists. -

As far as I can tell, there are
only three kinds of male/female
relationships at Davidson. The first
is the strictly platonic relationship.
This is the relationship where you
say “hey” as you pass in Chambers,
or maybe watch movies in a dorm
room in groups.

However, in this relationship,
there is definitely no hint of roman-
tic attraction. Apparently, there i is
an abundance of this type.

The second kind is the one
where the guy and the girl have
been in a serious relationship for
what seems like years. This usu-
ally occurs between someone from

‘Davidson and’ someone else from

another college far far away.

People in these relationships
can be identified by the fear in their
eyes as they check their mail, pray-
ing the phone bill hasn’t come yet.

The final type of relationship
is the one which I feel is the prob-
lem. .

This relationship happens at
Patterson Court parties. Members
of the opposite sex simultaneously

Can love
exist at
Davidson?

consume alcohol and loose inhibi-
tions. The result is what is com-
monly known as a drunken hook-
up.

After the hook-up, there is a
period of non-communication.
This is the time period where both
people are either wondering if the
other simply “hooked-up” because
they had been drinking or feel
embarrassed because of something
they did (or think they might have
done).

Herein lies the problem that I
feel is the biggest obstacle in nearly
all relationships at Davidson. Lack

‘of communication.

Maybe both participants were
truly interested in each other.
They’ ll never know now because
what happened was dismissed as
merely another “drunken hook-
up.” Perhaps that was all it was.

back dating. I never see or hear of
this high-school type activity hap-
pening much around here. I’m
sure it does, but I don’t think it
happens enough,

If people dated more around
here I think there would be a very
nice in-between to the first and
third kinds of relationships I de-
scribed.

Perhaps this would also lead

to more of the second type occur-

ring between two people here, at
the same school!

Secondly, communicate. It
may be difficult or awkward at
first, but the more you do it, the ©
easier things will get. Maybe this
way if “John” likes “Mary,” he
will tell her and ask her out on a
date, instead of having a drunken
hook-up that makes it very diffi-
cult to build a solid relationship
on.

If you are currently in a
healthy relationship and com-
pletely disagree with this article,
congratulations. If you aren’t, try
my advice.

Good luck, and may every-

‘one have their own valentine on

the 14th to give something spe-
cial to. I recommend conversa-
tion hearts.

future.

The Brothers of Phi Delta Theta

An Apology ...

We would like to apologize for the incident that occurred last
Wednesday at the program “Friendship In the Age of AIDS.” We
realize that the occurrence was extremely inappropriate and lament
the fact that this ever happened. In no way did we wish to undermine
the importance and seriousness of the program, nor to offend the
presenters, sponsors, and audience. A mistake was made and actions
are being taken to prevent the occurrence of such an event in the

Again, please accept our deepest apologies.

Regression: Davidson’s unique gift

It has come to my attention
that some students have felt sort of
ripped off that they never receive
gifts from Davidson until they get
their diplomas (most people don’t
consider grades to be a very good
gift). That’s right, birthdays and
holidays go virtually unnoticed by
the Davidson establishment, and
quite frankly, I think faculty spon-
sored birthday bashes for all stu-
dents on their 21st birthday might
just put a little more spunk into
everyone. —

I confess that on occasion, I
have indeed felt some contempt
for Davidson, but generally, [think
people are too hard on our school.
I realized the other day that
Davidson has provided us with a
very special gift, a gift that keeps
on giving: regression. Now I’m

nota Psych major (Ididn’tevendo .

so great in 101), but I know what I
am talking about here — we are
returning to some sort of a primi-
tive state on campus. Allow me to
explain.

First of all, I personally have
become way too easily entertained

in my time here. While I contend
that this could‘be seen as a: good
thing (laugh atreally dumb jokes,
thus boosting the self-confidence
level of the campus as a whole),
others may disagree.

For example, some people
(Ryan Conatser) have become
tired of my continued infatuation
with the word “schmoopie.” As
you may know, I got this word
from an episode of Seinfeld about
two months ago and since then, it
has provided me with hours of
entertainment, while greatly an-
noying innocent bystanders. As a
side note for those of you who
don’t know the proper use of the
word schmoopie and would ike to
add it to your ever-expanding
Davidson vocabulary—itcan have
two meanings.

First, I think it can be a noun,
as in a pet name of sorts, or it can
be an adjective used to describe a
person, especially a silly person
(like Heather Sweeney, for ex-
ample). The fun of the word
schmoopie is this: find another
easily entertained person, and one

Rachel Cockrill

of you start by saying, “You're
schmoopie,” and then the other
person says, “No, you're
schmoopie” and then you both con-
tinue to say, “No you're
schmoopie,” alternately. It’s really
quite a fun little game despite its
seemingly simplistic nature, or at
least it’s fun for simple minded
people like myself. It is also good
for people with split personalities.

Another silly childlike thing
that I enjoy is throwing water bal-
loons at people I don’t know who
happen to be walking below my
window.

While my roommate, Diane
Krause, has scolded me for my
immaturity, I would have to en-
courage everyone to go out and buy
abag of balloons (or if you’ re cheap,
just get some condoms out of the
nearest bathroom) and fill those
babies with lots of water and then
— bombs away! Don’t ever actu-
ally hit the person, just throw it
near them and then hide so they
can’t figure out who did it.

Okay, enough on entertain-
ment. —

Has anyone else noticed that
they can no longer talk to a real
answering machine? My im-

promptu speaking skills have dete- -

riorated to the point that, when I
call someone in the outside world
and an answering machine picks
up, I actually have to hang-up and
figure out what I am going to say
because, unlike voice mail, you
only get one shot.

I-can no longer walk like a
normal person either. While I’ve
never been the picture of grace,
this tripping stuff is getting a little
ridiculous, and I know it’s not just
me that has this problem.

Maybe the gravity on campus
is especially strong or maybe there
is just an unusually large number
of treacherous roots and invisible
bricks here, but I contend that this
toois part of Davidson’s gift to you
some sort of hybrid
Legionnaire’s Disease that results
in a loss of coordination.

I think this a good thing be-
cause itis really funny to see some-
one trip — it’s one of those things
from which you just can’t recover

with any degree of normalcy—so
it’s quite amusing to all involved
parties (the tripper and his various
onlookers).

Other examples of Davidson
students’ return to their primitive
roots that must be mentioned: a
strong desire to hibernate in the
winter, resulting in a higher level
of absences form class in winter
months, and an infatuation with
fire (especially cigarettes and bon-
fires). I have also noticed that
wookie-type noises have become
quite common on campus ... is it
wookie mating season?

I think all of these things are
positives if for no other reason
than endowing the Davidson stu-
dent with humility. We should be
thankful for all that we have, and
I’m thankful for Davidson. :

Davidson does give back in its
own special way by promoting the.
loss of acquired skills and a retro-
gression to an earlier mental and
behavioral level.

That’s right, thanks to
Davidson, I’m regressing .. . and I
kinda like it.

as EES 5 VT +5 D8
