12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Step on a Crack delights child in all

By BriGAND GREEN
Staff Writer

When a young girl’s single father remarries, can things
ever really be the same between them? And should they be?
These questions are the motivation behind Suzan Zeder’s
Step On A Crack, the most recent children’s play produced
by the Davidson Community Players and the Davidson
College Theater Department.

Directed by Christa Abbott, the one-act was performed
inthe Cunningham Fine Arts Building’s Black Box Theatre,
whose small size and central “stage” were well-suited to
keeping the interest of the children in attendance. Other
details revealed the players’ understanding of the difficul-
ties of performing before such a young audience. Even
before the play began, the actors took the stage, enacting
popular children’s games which occasionally erupted into
spontaneous “‘fistfights.” This twist delighted the children
and kept the pre-show atmosphere from degenerating into
boredom.

The set was also well-designed; the parents’ conven-
tional living room contrasted strongly with the chaos and
clutter of Ellie’s bedroom, and even more with the wildly
painted, oversized “toybox” which served as the gateway
into Ellie’s imagination. The props never overwhelmed the
small stage, allowing the actors plenty of room to move
about and interact without tripping over chairs or bowling

The performance itself showed similar attention to
detail. The characters were recognizable to anyone who is,
or was once, a child; Ellie (Emily Eagan) exhibited all the
magnified excitement, joys, and fears of youth, while Max
and Lucille (Matthew Strader and Kay Walraven) per-
formed convincingly as the goofy single father and his
sweet, tentative new love interest. The most spectacular
performances, however, were by “Lana” and “Frizbee,”
Ellie’s imaginary playmates given life by Jimmy Lloyd and
Sarah Hankins. Riotously dressed, hilarious and always in
motion, the pair resembled characters from a Saturday
morning cartoon rather than a stage drama. Theirhyperkinetic
antics balanced the gloomy predictions of “The Voice”
(Adrienne Nixon), and kept the play’s more serious themes
from becoming overwhelming.

Students, professors, and parents were all present in the
near-capacity crowd on opening night. Their laughter and
applause testified to the production’s broad appeal. How-
ever, the children’s reaction to the production was most
important, and the majority were spellbound. A few even
offered their own opinions on the play’s action; one excited
boy in the top row shouted an encouraging “Good idea!” to
Ellie as she lectured her stepmother on the evils of sour
cream and early bedtimes. The reviewer offers the same
opinion to Christa Abbott and all those who helped to
produce this engaging children’s play—great idea! May
their next production be as innovative and entertaining as

ARTS &z LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996

[wr Gaieak cucae Gen pcan ue laeas:ey |
LIFE TIME CREDIT a4

Croquet! Okay.

pins. this one. :
—Music in two hours or less—
ComPILED BY WIFOY
April 2
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill):
Babyland with Web
Ziggy’s (Winston Salem): Life in
General
April 3
Be Here Now (Asheville): Jump,
Little Children with Gran
Torino
RELATIONSHIPS Cat’s Cradle: Uncle Mingo with
Anna
COMMUNICATION Elbow Room (Columbia):
GENDER ROLES Shoveljerk
SEXUAL EXPRESSION Jack Straws(Charlotte): Conehead
"SEXUAL VIOLENCE Lo
ROMANCE April 4
SEX AND ALCOHOL Amos’s (Charlotte); Mary Sun
AIDS/SAFER SEX shine
HomopHosiA Cat’s Cradle: Medeski, Martin,
was and Wood
POPULAR CULTURE Elbow Room: Everything
Ser-EsTeeM Jack Straws: Jump, Little Chil
BREAKING Up dren
“PORNOGRAPHY” Ziggy’s: Back Doors

_ TUESDAY, APRIL 2
8pm 900 Rm.

Not just a lecture. -
A multi-media, humorous, provocative event.

April 5
Be Here Now: Southern Culture
on the Skids
Cat’s Cradle: Spinanes with Ver
sus and Blast Off Country
Style :
Jack Straws; Urban Shakedancers
Elbow Room: Deadeye Dick
Ziggy’s: Drivin’ and Cryin’ ’

April 6
Be Here Now: Floyd’s Funk Re
vival ae
Cat’s Cradle: Reggae Jam with
Sunfire, Jumpstarts, Aware
hess Arts Ensemble, Ram
Band, and more
Elbow Room: The Hazels
Jack Straws: Knocked Down
Smilin’
Ziggy’s: Velocity Girl
April 7

Tremont: Nixon’s For Squirrels
Ziggy’s: Punk Rock Festival

Mexico/Carribean $189 RT, Europe $169

OW, & Domestic Destinations Cheap!

IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES
START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE

Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000
info@ aerotech.com
http://campus.net/aerotech

