DAVIDSONIAN SPORTS | vont oan 28, 1996 16
Football drops squeaker to Randolph-Macon

By Aaron DUNHAM yard touchdown strike to Ronald Still, the victory wasn’t se- 47 before being picked off by Joe day.
Staff Writer Williams that tied the score. cure until the final seconds. Seetoo. “Tt was hard to go in the locker
Randolph-Macon answered witha Tommy Dugan threw three con- Dugan completed 12-of-28 room. We made some big plays

For the second time this sea- drive that was capped by Hughes’s __ secutive completions and brought _ passes for 217 yards withatouch- today and I’m proud of our kids,
son, Davidson entered a football scoring run. the ‘Cats to the Randolph-Macon downandtwointerceptions onthe _ but we wanted to win.”
game as a big underdog and came - F
up just short.

After nearly knocking off Di-
vision III power Emory & Henry a
month ago, the Wildcats fell 31-24
to a strong Randolph-Macon team
before 2,358 fans at Richardson
Field Saturday.

A 7-yard touchdown run by
reserve running back Adrian
Hughes with 55 seconds remain-
ing proved to be the decisive score.

“Our defense was on the field
a lot in,the fourth quarter and was
probably a little worn down,” ad-
mitted Davidson coach Tim Landis
after the game. The Wildcats were
outscored 21-7 in the final period.

Davidson (3-4) outgained the
Yellow Jackets in total yards (411
-346) and took a 10-7 lead into the
locker room after Dunn Mileham
booted a career best 50-yard field
goal.

The Wildcats led going into
the fourth quarter before Randolph-
Macon (5-2) mounted two con-
secutive scoring drives. Mike
Klazas, who led the Yellow jack-
ets in rushing (67 yards), scored
touchdowns on both of those drives
to propel his team ahead.

The Wildcats responded with

asix-play, 80-yard drive that ended Aaron Kudoch
with Tommy Dugan firing a 27- Fullback Eric Ferguson (13 rushes for 58 yards) dives into the end zone for a first quarter score to put the Wildcats on top, 7-0.

Happy 40th pirthday
Coach Cooke f

We've been waiting
a long time for this!

Love, —
om, Dad, pette, George

ue, John, Brian- Julie.

9

Denise, & John

