14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fishing season

By JoHN RoE

doesn’t end in winter

Outdoors Columnist

It looks as if we might get our first taste of winter this week. No,
there is no snow expected, and temperatures aren’t supposed to drop
below 34 degrees, but our first front bringing frigid northern air is
sweeping our direction. Although no ponds will freeze, the fish will
sense the temperature change and head for deeper water, ending the
fishing season for most anglers. Rods will be tucked away in a corner
of the garage, tackle boxes put on the shelf to collect dust, and
thoughts of a warm, far off spring will be as close as many get to
fishing until the seasons change again.

I, however, cannot part from my fishing rod for such long periods
of time. I admit, I do not get out quite as often from November to
March, and when I do, sometimes I wish I hadn’t. There is nothing
like a bitter wind on wet hands to send one whimpering back to the
fireplace.

But every now and then a trip to the water will pay off. To take
advantage of cold weather fishing opportunities, two things must be
understood. First, the weather, like all aspects of nature, changes.
There might be two weeks of bitter cold, mixed with a bit of snow and
ice, but sooner or later there will be a patch of warmer air and
sunshine. These times can be a fishing oasis in an otherwise grey and
dreary winter. I recall one warm day sandwiched between weeks of
below freezing weather that provided some of the best fishing I have
ever experienced. I was fishing in a feeder creek of the Red river in
Tennessee. The warm sunshine heated a shallow water pool, bringing
white bass and largemouth from their winter lethargy to a frenzied
feed. One after another fish would boil to the surface to devour my
minnow imitation until the sun ducked under the horizon.

The second thing to remember in the cold months is cold weather
slows the fish’s metabolism, resulting in occasional feeding as
opposed to the constant feeding of spring and summer. Fish, not
wanting to expend valuable energy in search for food, may go days at
atime without eating. When they do eat, fish prefer a larger package,
such as a big shad or sunfish, to supply the most nutrients for the least
energy exertion. Fish must be extremely efficient in cold water, for
any lost energy takes away from the fat that insulates them from the

cold water. Your fishing tactics should include slow. presentations,
large lures and most of all, patience. Creeping a “jig n’ pig” overrocks

or stumps at depths of 25 to 30 feet has become a favorite method of
many big fish seekers in the winter. Some of the largest fish in the
record books have been caught by this method in temperatures below
40 degrees.

Some anglers do not believe fishing season ever ends, for fish
must eat year round. As long as fish are eating, there is a way to catch -
them. But catching fish in the cold months of the year, requires an
understanding of their change in behavior, arid an eye on the changing

weather.

Women’s soccer wins 2 of 3

By WILL BrapsHAW

Sports Editor

GREEENVILLE, SC — Af-
ter wrapping up the regular season
conference title and the top-seed
for the conference tournament
(Nov. 9-10 at Davidson) with
Tuesday’s 3-0 victory over App.
St. in Boone, the women’s soccer
team dropped a disappointing 1-0
decision at Furman on Saturday
afternoon.

Finishing hurt the Wildcats
again, as they outshot the Paladins

11-6 and forced Paladin keeper
Jen McNutt to make six saves, but
they were unable to convert their
opportunities into goals.

“Tt’s a matter of pride against
Furman,” Mellissa Moser said af-
ter the loss. “This was a game that
personally I wanted to win, I’m
really disappointed with the loss.”

On Sunday, the Wildcats
thumped UT-Chattanooga, 6-0 to
close out their regular season. They
head into the conference tourna-
ment with a 9-10-1 mark, 7-1 in
conference. _

Exit 28 off 1-77, Conrelius

Norman Crossing Shopping Center

We Could All Use A Little More

S PORTS : MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996 |
Team preps for conference

Dominating defense spearheaded by Melissa Moser
looks to smother their opponents this weekend

By WILL BRADSHAW
Sports Editor

The influx of many talented
freshmen allowed coach Kevin
Hundley to return senior tri-cap-
tain Melissa Moser to the defense
after she played midfield last sea-
son. Moser has responded by vir-
tually shutting down the
opposition’s top scorer all year.

“T feel more comfortable with
it (marking back),” Moser said. “I
understand that’s probably what’s
best for the team and probably
what I do best. I liked going for-
ward more, but the best place to
put me was what I was better at.”

Moser said she spent her fresh-
man year as a utility player, step-
ping in at forward, midfield, and
marking back. But, in the spring of
her freshman year she started play-
ing well defensively.

She had a successful sopho-
more season as a defender, but last
year Hundley moved her into the
midfield. This season, the addition
of players like Kelly Rennick (a
freshman who has started every
game at center midfield) gave
Hundley the freedom to move
Moser back to defense.

“When I played sweeper, I

‘felt confident knowing. people

weren't going to get by her,” Amy
Balsinger, a forward who played
the first three games at sweeper,
said. “She’s a great player, and she
usually marks the best forward.

. Every game she shuts them down.”

“Her role is to take the best
forward and neutralize her, she’s
done that, and that’s a real tribute
to her. It’s not a glamorous job,”
Hundley said. “She’s as good a
marking back as you’ll find. It’s
not a noticeable thing, but you can
watch how far back (the player
she’s marking) comes to get the
ball. If you can push the front play-
ers into the midfield it’s tough to
score.

“Melissa is able to focus on
marking a player out, whether she’s
physical, fast, whatever. And not
just Southern conference players,
but she’s done it against the ACC
and SEC. For us to win we’ ve got
to keep the ball out of the goal.”

But Moser has not been alone.
On a team that has defined itself
with defense she is only one of
many stars.

“The combo of her and Allie
(Noznesky, the starting goal-
keeper), and the emergence of
Katharine (Cornelius) at sweeper
has been really pleasing to see,”
Hundley continued. “That’s really
been the highlight of this year.
You add Natasha (Vasavada) in,
who has been consistently strong,
and Angie (Boyer), who has really
rounded out the backs so we can
interchange people.”

Noznesky has allowed eight
goals in the last 13 games, only
four in regulation time, and the
defense as a. whole has surren-

dered only 12 goals inthose games, .

seven in regulation.

“I’m not sure when it was, but
after the first couple games we
realized that communication was
the key to everything in the back,”
Moser said. “Katherine stepped in
and became more vocal. Now we’ re
doing a much better job of backing
people up.

“Against Furman, we were
doing a, good job of playing little
short balls out of the back and
knocking the ball around. That just

shows how we have more compo-
sure.”

Cornelius has also watched
the team gel defensively in the
second half of the season.

“We’re finally down into a
rhythm. Now, one person goes,
and somebody else drops back.
We talk more on the field, and we
know what the other players are
doing,” she said.

This weekend, the Wildcats
and their terminator defense will
take on all-comers in the confer-
ence tournament to be played on
the women’s field behind Apart-
ment F.

They will face the winner of
App. St. vs. UT-Chattanooga in
the first semifinal on Saturday at
noon. If they win that game, they
will take on the winner of Georgia
Southern and Furman in the finals
at 2:00 on Sunday.

“T really want to win this tour-
nament so badly, andI wantto play
Furman and finish the last game of
my career with a win against them.
That’s how I want to end it,” Moser
said.

Senior Kelly Ammann fights for possession with a Georgia ila

Southern player in the 3-1 Davidson win on Oct. 26. A starter
from day one, Ammann finishes her career this weekend, as the
team tries to claim a third-straight conference tournament title.

Field hockey deep-sixed at Deep South

By Caro REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

Field Hockey ended a season
plagued by injuries on Sunday at
the Deep South field hockey cham-
pionship in Salisbury, N.C., losing
the tournament for the first time in
seven years, Wildcat rival App. St.
took the crown.

With many star upperclass-
men and talented young players,
coach Betsy Pryor and her team
had anticipated a record-setting
season. But one after another, key
performers were driven to the side-

lines with injuries.

The crippling trend began
with captain Mandy Neidert’s
stress fracture early in the season
and continued with Mary Dowd’s
torn knee ligament. Then, Chase
Keith, who was struck in the head
with a ball in the last regular sea-
son game, had to sit out the tourna-
ment

The starting lineup against the
Mountaineers and Catawba this
weekend looked very different
from the squad that defeated both
teams earlier in the season.

On Friday Catawba beat

Davidson in overtime, 4-3,.and on
Sunday App. St. finished the round-
robin with a 3-0 win over the Wild-
cats.

“We had to fight all odds,”
said Erin Smith of the end-of-sea-
son games. “We did play well.”

Smith finished as the season’s
leading scorer. Three Davidson
players , Kim Ceci, Lindsey Parker,
and Sarah Gebhardt , were recog-
nized on the all-tournament team.

With such a young roster, the
Wildcats return next season with
almost all of the same talent minus
captains Neidert and Dowd.
