THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996 as

___ WILDCAT ROUNDUP _

The Wildcats entered spring break at 2-7, and players and coaches
worried that this season’s high expectations were quickly wilting;
Davidson sandbagged their hopes by taking four of five over break, but
they have gone on a new skid since classes began, losing five in a row
to fall to 8-13. ,

Before break began, The team pulled out a dramatic 7-6 victory
against Wake Forest on Feb. 27. With two outs in the bottom of the
ninth inning, Luke Goodwin, a transfer from Wake Forest, singled
home the winning run for the Wildcats.

Davidson took two of three from the Citadel, winning 9-5 and 12-
10, defeated UNC-Charlotte, 7-3, and swept a doubleheader against
Miami of Ohio, 9-8 and 6-5. The only blemish was a 9-1 loss to the
Citadel. Dates with Wake Forest, William and Mary, and Duquesne
were rained out.

The Wildcats squeaked out a victory against the Richmond
Spiders 7-6 on Mar. 11. The victory against Richmond extended
Davidson winning streak to-five, the Wildcats’ longest in three years.

The hot streak was broken Mar. 13 when Northern Illinois
defeated Davidson 15-8. Richmond then took their revenge, beating
the Wildcats 10-4 the next day.

Davidson dropped three games this weekend to the East Tennes-
see State Buccaneers by scores of 6-5, 9-6, and 7-3.

“Rast Tennessee State is extremely strong offensively. We
battled but couldn’t get the job done,” said Dick Cooke.

Davidson will look to end their cold spell against the Yale
Bulldogs this Tuesday at Wildcat Park. The Wildcats also face Wake
Forest at home Wednesday. ag

—Dan Motz and Clayton Schloss

Wrestling

The Davidson Wrestling
their best conference tournament
finish since 1969, placing seven
wrestlers and scoring 20 team
points - the most since the teams
32 point showing 17 years ago.

Freshman Christian Baker
(134) outlasted his UTC oppo-
nentin the consolation finals and
led the team with his third place

| finish.

George Escaravage (142),
Miller Carey (150), Jake
Hamilton (167), Ben Wall(177),
Bill Cameron (190) and Chip
Stewart (HWT) placed fourth in
the tournament.

“IT was extremely pleased
with the determination our guys
showed. They proved Davidson
is not far from being a major
contender in the Southern Con-
ference”, said coach Oddo.

With many wrestlers return-
ing, and a good recruiting class
on the way, the Wildcats hope to
have a more balanced and con-
sistent lineup next season.

— John Roe

Lacrosse

The women’s lacrosse team fell to Hofstra University, 23-5, on
Friday, but first-year head coach Mary Schwartz ‘says that playing
established programs like Hofstra can help Davidson grow and im-
prove.

“Tt lets us see how hard we have to work,” says Schwartz.

Sarah Hogan, Allison Rhoads, and midfielder Rebecca Maclean
led the team to a 10-7 victory over North Boston University on Mar.
8 at Eckerd College in Florida. Two days later, they fell to George
Mason, 13-9, at Richardson Stadium.

“That game exemplified our improvement since last year,” says
Maclean.

The first-year players have helped the team tremendously, coach
Shwartz says, emphasizing Amanda Fleck’s defensive power and
Linda Rothemund’s talent at midfield.

Maclean sees the younger players as great assets to the program,
now in its third year, but credits Schwartz as well.

“‘She’s exactly what we needed. She’s dependable, energetic, and]
makes fitness a priority,” the junior midfielder says.

Schwartz is recruiting heavily for next season.

“We have twenty girls coming,” she says optimistically. ““We’re
going to take our lumps occasionally, but we’ll come out all right.)
We'll play hard each game.”
—Carlo Reynolds

Kappa Alpha thanks faculty and
students for supporting the Spring

KArnival, March 23, noon to 5 p.m.

Davidson wrapped up a suc-
cessful two weeks, in which they
_}won four of five matches, by
dominating the thitteenth-ranked
Richmond Spiders, 5-2, for their
seventh victory overall.

“It was a big win for the
kids,” coach Jeff Frank said, “We
grew a lot as a team today. We
definitely turned the corner go-
ing into a tough conference
schedule.”

Jon Pastel, Eric Bourn, Jeff
Tonidandel, and Paul Wulfsburg
all contributed singles victory.
Wulfsburg clinched the squad’s
big win, topping Richmond’ s Ja-
son Kermode, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2.

“Tt was a big win for me, as
well as the team,” said
Wulfsburg.

Pastel upped his season
singles mark to 10-2 with a win
over Hans Paino. Pastel and Scott
Briggs claimed the doubles point
with an 8-4 victory.

—Tyler Epp

Women’s Tennis

The Wildcats currently stand
at 5-3, as they prepare for the
bulk of a tough upcoming con-
ference gauntlet. .

Davidson opened the sea-
son with a 6-1 defeat over East
Carolinaon Feb. 25, but got swept
by Old Dominion on Mar. 2.

During spring break in Or-
ange Lake, FL, Davidson posted FOU.
victories over Temple, 6-3, and ‘ap
James Madison, 7-2, and fell to ’
Boston University, 5-2.

The Wildcats also swept
their first conference match ver-
sus Appalachian State, 7-0, edged
Wofford Thursday, 5-2, and fell
to College of Charleston, 7-1,
Friday. :

—Kirstyn Leuner

Jo. service: 9%)
~ - bs B QO}
© money: tor O°

i
OU aet‘e yo?
5‘ y

