THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS : & LIVING MONDAY, APRIL 29,1996

11

HAWAIIAN HO-DOWN

Students dance Hawaiian style beside the Davidson well.

-Josh Glazer

Dance Troupe defies death

By BriGAND GREEN
Staff Writer

Sometimes, it’s easy to get the
feeling that the arts are being sorely
neglected at Davidson. One can
point at the new Fine Arts Center
as a monument to our artistic com-
mitment, but with sporadic fund-
ing and waning student interest in
the arts, the building begins to look
more like amausoleum—the place
where the Davidson arts go to die.

Fortunately, the artists which —
Davidson does manage to attract
aren’t an easily-discouraged lot.
For example, consider the

Davidson Dance Troupe. Founded
in 1983, the group’s funding has
been so minimal that it lost its last
salaried instructor in 1992, when
most of the current student body
was still in high school. However,
the Dance Troupe members used
this initial neglect as a gateway to
greater artistic freedom and ex-
pression. Since 1993, the Davidson
Dance Troupe has been entirely
student-run under the leadership
of seniors Laura Liebfried and
Shannon Simmons, and has con-
tinued to produce shows free of
charge for Davidson’s students and
faculty.

Their final performance of the
year, “Beyond Facades,” was held
in Love Auditorium on Saturday,
April 27. The show was an eclec-
tic commemoration to some of the
best pieces performed by the
Troupe over the past three years.
Both modern and classical dance
styles were included, a hallmark of
Dance Troupe productions.
“Shannon’s specialty is classical
ballet — Baryshnikov and tutus,”
said Liebfried, laughing. “I’m
more involved in modern dance.
So between the two of us we’re

See Dance on page 12

South Asian Dancers boogie down

By Emiry SmirH
StaffWriter

Saturday night The South
Asian Dance Festival came to Love
Auditorium to present an assort-
ment of contemporary and tradi-
tional dance. The program con-
sisted of ten pieces, performed by
solo and group dancers. Two
Davidson students took part in the
festival, Aparna Iyer and Amdi
Amarasinghe. Iyer opened the pro-
gram with two pieces, one tradi-
tional dance of worship anda dance
interpretation of an old Indian story.

Amarasinghe did a Kandyan dance
entitlek.” The contemporary dance
selections were mostly excerpts
from modern Indian movies and
were well received by audience
members. The traditional pieces
incorporated instruments such as
ankle and wrist bells and 2 ks
sticks.

The traditional dances in-
cluded a mix of four distinct types.
Bharata Natyamis the eldestamong
the classical dances and was de-
veloped in the Temples as a form
of Divine Worship. In Dandiya
Ras, a dance originated in North

India, the dancers strike sticks as
they move in a circle to produce a
rhythmic effect. The third of the
dances is Garbo, another North
Indian Dance. This form also uses
a circular pattern but clapping is.
the method of rhythm. Finally,
Kandyan dance, from Sri Lanka, is
usually performed to the beat of
drums called geta bera.

The colorful costumes, deco-
rative and instrumental jewelry,
and musical assortment created an
extraordinary evening of tradition
as well as innovative ideas in South
Asian Dance.

College Kitchen

Lighten’ up the grill: Pork Roast
Marinade and Delicious Jello Treats

By Ros Kosicki AND JAY SHULTZ

Cy

Chefs-in-Residence

Big Screen Room 7 p.m.- 9 p.m.
Outpost 8 p.m.- 12 a.m.

9:30 p.m.

Dean Rusk Program educates you internationally in the

Jumpin’ Java says goodbye with Farewell Poetry in the

Music in‘Hodson Hall serves as a stress reliever 8 p.m.-

Coffeehouse perks you up after a long night i in the 900
Room 8 a.m.-.] 1 a.m.

Athletic Awards Banquet honors those we know and
love 6 p.m.- 11 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java gets you pumpin’ with South Asian poetry
in the Outpost 8:30 p.m.- 12 a.m.

Twenty-one Year Old Nighthelps you drown stress and
sorrows in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.- 12:30 a.m.

WQSANL

early in the 900 Room 7:30 a.m.-9 a.m.

time

in Erwin Lodge 5:45 p.m.- 7 p.m.

>
<x
QO
SY
bu
Z
Q
we
2

“Jesus at 2000” sounds interesting .
Gallery 7:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

at Cosmic Coffee 8 p.m.-10 p.m.

Wellness Seminar gets you on the right track et and

Optional Class Days Begin—take advantage of your extra

Center Awards Banquet honors more people we know
and love in the Carolina Inn 5:30 p.m.- 8 p.m.

End of the Year Picniccelebrates the thought of freedom

. .in Chambers

Poetry Readings at Cosmic get you in that groovy mood

Wellness Seminar wakes you up in the 900 Room 8:30
a.m.- 10 a.m.

Crop Lunch serves the hungry in the 900 Room 11 a.m.-
2 p.m.

Dean Rusk Program Speakerenlightens the knowledge
seekers in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.- 9 p.m.

in the Union Lobby 10 a.m.- 4 p.m.

Jewelry Sale gets you all decked out before the year ends

Opera Scenes inspire in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

ODK Leadership Banquetin Chambers Gallery 10a.m.-
2 p.m.

Opera Scenes in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

DC Dance Troup cuts a rug in Love Avuditoriirn, 8 p.m.-
11 p.m.

Dazed and Confused reflects campus moods in the 900
Room 9 p.m.- 11:30 p.m.

AVCaNL_LVS

Due to the arrival of spring, grilling season is now open. So we would like to provide you with a recipe
you can use the next time you’re burning your nose hairs over an open flame. This marinade is best used with
pork chops, or if you really aim to please, pork tenderloin. Chicken is also a proven success. For this marinade
you will need the following ingredients:

Stress is constant, library hours are extended, and carrell
stealing runs rampant. Enjoy!

Pork of choice

12 oz jar of Heinz chili sauce
1/4 cup of soy sauce

1 cup of ketchup (or catsup)
1/2 cup of brown sugar
Tblsp. of minced garlic

Vereen Bell Writing Award

- Josh Glazer

Prose Writing Award: Poetry Writing Award:
* Mix all ingredients together in dish and marinade pork for at leastthree hours. Grill pork to own desire :
and enjoy. In addition to the marinade we decided to add a little dessert recipe which many of you may know,
but for those who don’t, you may want to cut this one out and post it on your refrigerator. You will only need
Jello mix, water, and vodka. Follow the instructions on the back of the Jello box and substitute the same amount
of vodka where the recipe calls for cold water. Do not substitute the vodka for the hot water or your tasty treats
won't be so tasty. Pour the contents into ice cube trays or whatever will fit into your fridge. Warning: the latter

Tecibe is kor ae above the age of twenty-one; those unter twenty-one should not attempt this recipe.

Ist Place — Jack Livings
2nd Place — Jennifer Nolan
3rd Place — Chad Ossman

1st Place — Shayna Chazin
2nd Place — Geordie Schimme}
3rd Place — Michael Ferber

Congratulations!!!

