6 THE DAVIDSONIAN |

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1996

Election countdown: 8 days

Campaign Issues: Where the candidates stand

1. Do you support a woman’s right to choose to have an abortion?
Dole-No

Clinton-Yes

2. Do you support a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution?

Clinton-No

Dole- Yes

3. To reduce the budget deficit, should the federal government eliminate the U.S. Department of

Energy?
_Clinton-No

Dole-Yes

4. Should there be a single income tax rate?

Clinton-No

5. Do you support deployment of an anti-missile defense system?
Dole-Yes

Clinton-No

Dole-No

6. Do you think U.S. troops should be in Bosnia as peace-keepers?

Clinton-Yes

Dole-No

7. Would you support a ban on political action committee contributions to federal candidates?

Clinton- Yes

Dole- Yes

8. Do you support development of national educational standards and goals?

Clinton-Yes

Dole-No

9. Do you favor eliminating the U.S. Department of Education?

Clinton-No

Dole-Yes

10. Do you support the principle of amending the U.S. Constitution to allow voluntary prayer and/
or a moment of silence in public schools?

Clinton-No

Dole-Yes

11. Should the government maintain affirmative action efforts in hiring and contracting?

Clinton-Yes

Dole-No

12. Should the government maintain preferences for minority students applying for college

admission?
Clinton-Yes

Dole-No

Source: "All Politics,” CNN/Time on the WWW. Last week's source: CBS on the WWW.

Political
Perspective

As voters, we are coming upon
a time when our members of Con-
gress will be coming home and
overwhelming us with promises.
We have a responsibility to not be
swayed by lofty promises. Instead,
we need to focus on the real issues.
The issues that effect all ofus. One
very important issue that should be
closely watched is the effect of the
harmful pollutants that are being
emitted by many industries. We
have a right to know if we are in
harm's way. I realize that the Safe
Drinking Water Act and the Food
Quality Act are steps in the right
direction but we need to start to
demand more.

The Community Right to
Know Act, our best source of in-
formation about these harmful tox-
ins, requires that large manufac-
turing companies report the toxins
they emit. Although this does in-
crease our awareness, it is not good
enough. Presently these industries
only have to report emissions of
343 toxic chemicals that are known

to be of harm but unfortunately
more than 72,000.chemicals are on
the market today and most devas-
tating is that athe public is only
aware of fewer than one percent of
these. We also as consumers have
no way of knowing if we are being
affected by these toxins. They are
entering our homes and affecting
our families without our knowl-
edge. Plus there are a number of
industries that are currently not
required to report their emissions.
These include such industries as
sewage treatment plants, incinera-
tors, and oil and gas storage and
drilling sites. All of these major
factors in pollution ... and the pub-
lic is simply not informed.

We have aright to know what
toxins are used and produced in
our neighborhoods. We have a
right to know when our loved ones
are being affected. Basically, we
have a right to know what chemi-
cals are polluting our neighbor-
hoods from all types of facilities.

Unfortunately, the manufac-

Save the environment

turing andchemical industries have
launched an opposition to weaken
the Right to Know Act. Congress
should not be swayed by these
special interest groups. Instead,
Congress should support the ex-
pansion of the Community Right
to Know Actandalso the Children's
Environmental Health Protection
Act. Both of these will create a
saferenvironment. They will man-
date that manufacturers put warn-
ing labels on toxic children's foods
and products and also require pub-
lic reporting of the use of toxic
chemicals ensuring better worker
and consumer safety.

It is now time to demand that
our law makers put children and
the environment first. I suggest
that youurge your Representatives
to support these bills and put safety

first.

Ta)

Robin Dodson ‘00
Volunteer for the US PIRG
a nonprofit, non-partisan
organization

Come to hear Phil Duncan, Editor of Congressional
Quarterly’s Politics in America, speak about the
elections at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room Tuesday night.

Che Dawurdsoanta

Beyond Davidson

rthe week ending Sunde October 2 LID

International ...

Picketers protest government spending cuts in Canada

Spending cuts proposed by Ontario’s government resulted in labor
union and chirch group — led protests last week. Picketers paralyzed
the city's mass transport system. Bus, subway, and streetcar opera-
tions halted on Friday. Picketers also tried to enter the Toronto Stock
Exchange but were unable to get past the lobby.

Medicines containing arsenic banned in China

The sale of seven brands of folk medicine was banned in Hong Kong
last week after government officials found them to contain potentially
toxic levels of arsenic. The traditional cures are said to heal a range
of aliments, including sore throats.

Bomb explodes in Lebanon, killing Israeli soldiers

Two Israeli soldiers were killed when a bomb went off in southern
Lebanon on Friday. Four other soldiers were injured in the blast. An
Islamic guerrilla group, Hezballah, claimed responsibility for the act.

National ...

St. Petersberg, Florida hit by race-related riots

St. Petersberg’s police chief declared a stateof emergency Friday in
response to violent riotting in the southeastern part of the city. Nearly
30 buildings suffered major damage and the sale of guns and gasoline
in containers was banned fora 72 hour period. Riotting broke out after
a white police officer shot and killed an 18 year-old black motorist.

Oklahoma bombing suspects will be tried separately

Timothy McVeigh and Terry Nichols will be tried separately for their
alleged involvement in the Oklahoma City bombing of April 1995,
ruled a judge last Friday. The defendants' lawyers had argued that the
men should stand separate trials in the interest of a fairer trial.

THE Crossword
ACROSS Teile 6 7 je 19 10 Jit [12
1 Healthy ,
5 Fiery signal {ia
10 Brass
Poke aly 7 8
14 -
15 Shoestrings de be
16 Outer garment :
17 Barbershop item %
18 Make suitable 29 st [32
19 Eye : i
20 Caught sightof 3 ; 35 36
22 Stands for
canvases 3?
24 Phooey!
25 AMuse be i bg
26 Electrical unit
29 Rich source be bel ba
33 Fly high 49 50
34 Boldness =
36 Arab VIP st 52 |S: 6S ]66
37 Mink, e.g. : -
38 Bakery item (5 58 |59 60 61
39 Sch. gp. ae
40 Bone: pref.
42 Where soldiers [é= a?
are stationed
44 That girl's © 1996 Troune Media Services. inc.
45 Limit All rights reserved.
47 Grand — Dam
49 Engrave 10 Couple
50 Schoo! period 11 Press
2 Abs (with “out” a Forovcence
4 Sprees : impanzees WE)
a eet orMilne =. 21 Sailor ANS RS
| vessel! 23 Help
60 Weather outlook 25 Desire greedily [G : . 5 3 2 8 a + ‘ * S
62 Ship of 1492 26 With regard to Niiivigmalviolalnmanivialy
63 Wash lightly 27 Mickey or Minnie
64 “Do — others..." ie SiUIZICINi 3/8 Alain als
65 Schooner part 28 Components LICIENES _ GEIEIE!
66 Ceased 29 Grain for EVEIRAIOEIER PSEXERE IESE EI
67 Distort grinding S|UiS HEB SiLisiold aji}S/oO
30 Urge on Viiid Slilg ujin}s
DOWN 3 31 Saltpeter EMGWIE! ERNCIEIC) CMO
ook okie 32 Remove ina ain{tiwialilolo Mi siulalalwiv
orm, once way ¥
2 Desire 95 Geologic period fatatelvta lime lstit ete
personified 41 Never-ending Soils
- 3 Walk with 42 Photo 3/1 S/O 1 divialv i ajnioio
difficulty 43 Pertumed 3/V | yA S| 3/9/¥)7 Vii jyiyv
4 Toiler . 44 Bone of the vieiniL B(ylviqja VI SiM
5 Squash upper arm :
6 Fillswith cargo 46 Abbr.onamap 52 Mr. Kazan 56 Scene
7 School: abbr. 48 Law: abbr. 53 Indian queen 59 Receptacle for
8 Agent: abbr. 50 Tantalize 54 He's 007 8 :
9 Actress Parsons 51 Devotees 55 Give aratingto 61 The present

