OPINIONS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Reneé Radford

What's the Big Deal about homecoming?

“What’s all the commotion
about?” Iasked myself as I watched
the excitement begin. Questions
had been floating through the air
weeks earlier, but now the heat
was on. “Are you going” was all
one had to ask. To wonder “go
where” would have been absurd!
Wait! Before I go any further, for
those of you who are still con-
fused, lam referring to Davidson’s
Football Homecoming ‘96!

Now, was it just me or did
every conversation you have last
week begin with, “Are you go-
ing?” For those of you who can
relate thus far realize that your
answer to this question was very
crucial. If you were one of those
unfortunate souls who replied
“No”, you were first given that
dazed glare that said “What?” fol-
lowed by a severe verbal repri-

mand. Oh, but it didn’t stop there
now did it? Then came the “Why
not’s “ and the “How come’s”!
Didn’t you just want to scream,

“Shut up! I’m not

hair? Are you going to the game?
Are you going to any frat house? If
so, which ones? What time are you
getting ready? What time is he

ing the weekend festivities.

I say this because all of your
dear friends’ questions were an-
swered on Saturday, and boy did

these “friends” have

going because I’m
not!" Don’t worry
those of you who re-
sponded “No” were
not alone in being
verbally beaten.
Let’s take a

_ This was undoubtedly the best part
of Homecoming weekend...

The Gossip!! I never heard so much

bad mouthing in my life!

something to say about
you!

Wipe that con-
fused look off of your
face! You know exactly
what I am talking about!
This was undoubtedly

look at the flip side.
I bet you thought that if you said
“Yes” when asked if you were
going it would be just grand.
WRONG! You got the worst bom-
bardment of questions!

“Hey Karen, are you going?”

“Yeah!”

“With who? Where are you
going to eat? What are you wear-
ing? How are you going to do your

picking you up? What time are
you leaving? Etc, etc, etc...”

The next thing you knew, the
conversation was over and all you
had a chance to say was “Yes”!

I hope those of you who re-
sponded “Yes” didn’t get too
worked up over the fact that you
were only given the opportunity to
comfirm your intentions of attend-

the best part of Home-
coming weekend...The Gossip!! I
never heard so much bad mouth-
ing in my life!

“Did you see what Susie Mae
had on? Ican’t believe she had the
nerve to wear that dress! She knows
sheistoo big forthat dress! Doesn’t
she know the meaning of semi-
formal? How could Billy Bob
have the nerve to wear that tie with

that suit? Itis a total fashion no no!
Ican’tbelieve she was bold enough
to wear those white shoes! Didn’t
they go out of season three weeks
ago?”

Sound familiar? I thought it
would! So, my question to you is
this: Why make such a big deal
about the preparations and occur-
rences of Homecoming if, when
it’s all said and done, you are just
going to talk about your so-called
best buddies? Are we not recog--
nized as the world’s finest stu-
dents? Were we not raised to be
kind to our fellow man? Whatever
happened to “do unto others as you
would have them to do unto you”?

Oh, I getit! That would be too
much like right and, therefore, take
away all of the fun. I guess I'll
keep that in mind when spring
formals come around!

Alex Obregon

Davidson tradition?

Homecoming weekend is tra-
ditionally one of the biggest, most
anticipated weekends during the
Davidson school year, and rightly
so. More than the first home foot-
.ball game, it is a celebration of
both alumni and current students
alike, of Davidson ‘College as
home, an active part in who we are
and what we will become. As a
_ freshman, I looked forward to
Homecoming Weekend because I
wanted to experience Davidson tra-
dition to the full extent, and subse-

can be invited to any one of the
fraternity formals by a member of
one of the fraternities which calmed
my worries. What I didn’t realize
was that fraternities invited only
freshmen guys; the logic behind
this being that the guys would in
turn ask freshmen girls. But where
does that leave me? My boyfriend
does not go to Davidson, and there-
fore could not possibly be invited
to the fraternity activities. Yet
again, I found myself excluded
from the homecoming festivities I

ternities means they get to start
choosing which guys they willrush;
after all, the rush chair is the one in
charge of choosing who gets the
coveted invitations. Freshmen have
been allowed on Patterson Court
for only a week, and already we
have to deal with the pressure of
social acceptance without getting
areal taste of the school spirit that
comes from celebrating homecom-
ing. .

Why? One of the things that
attracted me to Davidson was that
it didn’t have a strict

quently become a part of
it. Since the beginning of
the semester, I had heard
nothing but great things
about homecoming, with
the fact that my high
school didn’t have a

“homecoming” probably

Why deliberately
exclude students from
something that is
based on the idea that

Greek system, and that
there is no pressure for
students to join fraterni-
ties or eating houses since
all Patterson court func-

tions are open to all stu-

dents — at least that’s

I later realized that freshmen

swer was that homecoming for fra-

adding to my excitement. what they kept saying at
Watch some. Wildcat og ° Discover Davidson.
football, get dressed up D2aVidson is our home? thas cemainly not the
for a semiformal, listen message I’ ve gotten from
to some good bands; all homecoming weekend.
in all it sounded like a solid week- had been looking forward to. The Out of the 244 males in the
end, Boy, was I let down. situation I found myself in led me _ freshmen class each fraternity in-
Astendstohappenacoupleof towonderabouthow many people _vites an average of 50 guys. This
weeks before date functions, most were experiencing the exclusion figure seems to indicate that all
people started to wonder about the _ that I was. guys get invited somewhere, but in
usual stuff: who am I going with, I am probably not the only reality some get invited to 3 or 4
what will I wear? Having a HTH _freshmangirlwhoseboyfriend(not _ fraternities, and some to none at
(hometown honey) willingtomake a Davidson student).will be here all. I understand that a fraternity
the 5 hour drive to Davidson, I for homecoming but will:not be cannot expect to rush the entire
thought I was all set. Soon, how- _ invited to a fraternity. freshman class, so somewhere
‘ever, I found out that there is much There are also 19 more girls along the way it has to narrow the
more to Davidson homecoming thanguysintheclassof2000which group down. But why use a week-
than meets the eye. wasinformed means thatevenifevery freshman end that is supposed to be a
by some upperclassmen, that guy was invited to a fraternity — DavidsonCollege tradition forthis?
Davidson, itself, does not. hold a which, may I add, did not happen Why deliberately exclude stu-
homecoming dance or party—the and probably willneverhappen— dents from something that is based
Davidson fraternities do.Further- and each invited a freshman girl, on the idea that Davidson is our
more, no semiformal parties on _ there would still be girls left unin- home? Wouldn’t you invite your
PattersonCourtareopenonHome-_ vited. To take this a step further, entire family to a family reunion?
coming weekend (with the excep- what do independent upperclass- Ihada good time on homecoming;
tion of one in the BSC. house). I men, male or female, do to cel- _I would even go as far as to say it
immediately started to wonder ebratehomecoming?Dotheyhave was better than average, but some-
about how it would be possible to be invitedtoo?. thing about walking around the.
that the freshmen could be excluded *~ ~Theresponses [received when’ Court ‘on Saturday night wonder-
from what is supposed tobe one of _ I asked these ‘questions..did not . ing where I wasallowedand where _
the biggest parties of the'year:- ~*~ satisfy me. Fhe most.common an-. ~I-wasn ‘t that. makes ‘me -think *
) Davidson isn’t quite home yet. -

3
:

aa

=~

Things are really falling apart
in my apartment. I’mnotsure my
roommates and I will be able to
make it through the month of
October. Friends since freshman
year, we’ve been through it all

laugh, cry, puke, pee, scream, wig,
pass, fail, etc. We’ve seen each
other heart-breaking, head-stand-
ing, crash-dieting, Bubba’s-
barbequeing, running-manning,
meeting-leading, goal-scoring,
masterpiece-painting, opinions-
writing, couch-sleeping, and
more. I think, however, we may
have met our friendship match:
Baseball. Although several of us
have roomed together before, we
have never had such a volatile
and passionate baseball situation
before. There are five of us. One
is from Birmingham, so life is all
about Roll Tide for her, baseball
is just something to watch when
the ‘Bama game isn’t on. One is
from New Jersey....no home-state
baseball team, no team loyalties.
That leaves three of us. One is
from Atlanta and probably came
Tomahawkin’ out of the womb.
One is from an hour outside of
Baltimore and has a family his-
tory of starting the wave at Ori-
oles’ games. I’m/a third-genera-
tion Yankee fan with a grandfa-
ther who grew up in the shadow
of Yankee Stadium in the Bronx.
For those of you who don’t fol-

mentioned teams have made itto
the. ‘playoffs. In ‘the apartment,

Nina Blount

Things fall apart

- the three of us are very support-

together. We’ ve seen each other .

low baseball, all three of the afore-

ive of each other’s teams...for
now. We always route for the
other teams, just to be nice. “The
O’s won last night? Fantastic.”
The problem is going to re-
ally erupt, however, when the
teams have to play each other. I
love my friend from Pennsylva-
nia, but if the Orioles play the
Yankees, all bets are off. None of
this “it’s just a game” crap. War.
Even worse, what happens if one
ofourteams has to play the Braves
in the. World Series? Who does
the odd-man-out route for? Will
it be two-against-one then? I
don’t know if our relationship
can survive this. I don’t know if
Ican brush my teeth nextto some-
one I know is routing against the
Yankees. How can I cook dinner
with someone whois praying they
lose? Blasphemy from the
mouths of angels, I tell you.
Baseball is the great equal-
izer. We keep it in the same place
in our hearts as we keep summer
and squirt-guns and Thanksgiv-
ing. It is our history and our
future and it helps keep us
american. There is only about
three more weeks of baseball until
next spring, so if you haven’t
gotten to watch any yet, now is
the time. . The next few weeks
hold some ‘great games. In the
end, with such a great sport, it

long as it’s the Yankees and not
one of the teams those bitches in ;

may spaiets oe Poe

