Pe Fe, Ph

.RTS & LIVING

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1996

Drumming, trumpeting, criaeting See the Wind Esemble = action,

Emily Smith

WAITING T O EXHALE

_ By JEFFERY CROMARTIE

Staff Writer

Last Monday evening, the Davidson College Wind
Ensemble, after a mere seven rehearsals, delivered a lovely
performance. Once again this talented group of musicians
demonstrated that indeed education is much more than
classes and reviews. Education is all about exploration and
expression. Director William D. Lawing, affectionately
known as “Doc”, seemed very pleased with the hard work
and dedication of his performers.

; Ths ¢ performance featured music composed | by William
-B Walter, James, Cymow, Tiburtio Massaino, and Vincent.

' Perichetti— four composers I Know nothing about; how-
ever I do know the five members of the brass quintet, and I’d
like to take this time to give them a bit of publicity for all

Bill Grant, unfazed by his rigorous economics major
work load, gave a stunning solo, demonstrating to one and
all that he is a master of clarity, timbre, and articulation.
Although Bill is generally disgruntled with Davidson, he
continues to contribute his time and energy into making
Davidson a truly beautiful place. My. friends, that is true
strength of character.

Jay Hudson performed a very difficult solo with utter
ease showing us that in his hands a tuba can take your breath
away. Thanks for taking time out of your ever busy Nations
Bank work day.to come and play. How many bankers can
play a tuba? Few, I wager.

: Tom Vanderbloemeh, back from his eayels: showed'us
that Davidson is blessed with more than one great trumpet
player. Tom’s warm, graceful melodies are quite a treat.
We are lucky to have him among us.

their years of dedication to music here at Davidson.

See Exhale on page 10

FUN. FOOD. c& FALL

Fall Festival brings students,
professors, and administrators together

“By Mary TowLes ALLISON
Staff Writer

It’s fall; the leaves are begin-

ning tochange, students bustle from
place to place, clad for whatever
the unpredictable weather might
bring, and the chill in the airis even
making the squirrels a little more
energetic.

In celebration of this transi-
tion, the Union Board treated us to
acampus-wide party—the fall fes-
tival. The Union threw this shin-
dig not only to recognize the com-
ing of autumn, but also to give
students and professors a place to
relax, despite the looming shadow
of midterms and papers.

Because of the fall festival,
students and faculty. took a break
from their busy lives to congregate
and appreciate everything
Davidson has to offer. Despite the
chilly temperatures, some ventured
outside of the Union to enjoy the

_ day: a few ‘die-hard flickerball

players frolicked on Chambers
Lawn, and professors strolled
through campus with their fami-
lies pushing baby strollers and ad-
miring the dazzling sunshine.

Even more fun was to be had
in the 900 Room, which was suffi-
ciently heated and an ideal spot to
feature Ecdysis, Davidson’s own
singing sensation.

Upon arriving at the festival, I
was not only impressed with the
student contingent, but also with
the number of faculty and staff
who were there. Dr. Kuykendall
seemed to be enjoying the scene,
talking not with his fellow admin-
istrators, but with a student.

Other faculty members played
with their children, who were es-
pecially entranced by Ecdysis, and
conversed with students. I even
saw my juggling teacher, Bill
Giduz, with his wife and children

taking in the sights. If the good

music and interaction with their —

favorite professors didn’t give stu-
dents the initiative to walk across
campus for the festivities, free food
certainly did. The Commons sup-
plied everything from soft pretzels
to cottage fries to appease the ap-
petites of hungry students and pro-
fessors.

Seeing everyone interact on
the same level, transcending the
differences that exist among pro-
fessors and students, reinforced my
vision of Davidson’ s long-held tra-
dition of a personalized education.
It was quite obvious on Friday that
students at Davidison are not just
names or numbers, nor are our
professors just faces in the school
directory.

If you missed the Fall Festi-
val, you missed out on kicking
back with your professors in order
to celebrate the season AND the
end of the week. Come, out next
time to enjoy the atmosphere!

=== Playinhioi&so =—

October 23 through 27, the Three vy Opera ensemble will present an entertaining musical
with political overtones, written by German playwright Brecht, with music by jazz composer:
Weill. Twenty-three Davidson students from all classes form the cast. The theater department’s

Joe Gardner will direct; Brad Griffin of the development office will conduct the orchestra.

Top: Harun
Thomas
partakes of
good food and
Fall fun..

Bottom: Liz
Sale and Nick
Paul enjoy the
Fall

