6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Week in Washington
Forbes works to challenge

Dole lead in New Hampshire

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

Multimillionaire publisher
Malcolm S. “Steve” Forbes Jr. has
mounted an unexpectedly strong
challenge to Republican front-run-
ner Sen. Robert Dole (R-KS) in the
New Hampshire primary.

Conflicting results from two
separate polls show just how tight
the race has become. A poll of 400
likely Republican primary voters
published Friday in The Boston
Globe showed that Forbes com-
manded 31% support, while Dole
had only 22%.

The other candidates, Sen. Phil
Gramm (R-TX), former Tennes-
see governor Lamar Alexander,
Sen. Richard Lugar (R-IN), and
commentator Patrick Buchanan,
polled inthe single digits. Another
poll by the American Research
Group showed Dole with 25% and
Forbes with 19%. Both polls hada
margin of error of five percentage
points.

“If I worried about every poll,
I'd probably have an Excedrin
headache,” Dole said in response
tothe new surveys. Yet there were

unmistakable signs that his cam-
paignis struggling. Dole’s troubles
began during his response to Presi-
dent Clinton’s State of the Union
address. His delivery was stiff and
unemotional, and his dire warn-
ings against liberalism seemed out
of place as Clinton declared twice
that “the era of big government is
over.”

Dole defended his perfor-
mance, saying “it played very well
with the Republicans. That’s who
we’re addressing right now.” In
recent weeks, Dole has had to cam-
paign against Forbes rather than
President Clinton, most notably in
anew series of television commer-
cials attacking Forbes’ inexperi-
ence and the flat tax. Ruth Griffin,
a Dole supporter and a local office-
holder in New Hampshire, said,
“This campaign is thoroughly vola-
tile right now. I’m telling you that
there are a lot of people out there
changing their minds.”

Despite Forbes’ spending $15
million of his own money, Dole
retains a strong lead in financial
resources compared to the other
Republican candidates. Dole has
$4.4 million in cash on hand and

has raised over $25.2 million in
campaign funds. Forbes has not
released copies of his campaign
report or revealed how much
money has on reserve.

Forbes’ surprising gain in the
polls has energized a race Dole
was expected to win handily.

Both candidates face differ-
entchallenges. Forbes has attracted
support largely because of his ready
cash, the flat tax, and his status as
a political outsider. But with his
rise in popularity will come in-
creased scrutiny, which devastated
Paul Tsongas and Ross Perot in the
1992 campaign.

Forbes must also move be-
yond the perception that he is a
single-issue candidate, since the
flat tax has been criticized for ben-
efiting the wealthy.

Dole must offer a more fo-
cused message and counter the per-
ception that he is just “the same old
senator.”

Sources include: January 26 and
February 1 and 2 of The New York
Times and the January 29-Febru-

ary 4 issue of The Washington Post —

National Weekly Edition.

Global Perspective

Africa’s Bosnia?

By Eric CoLLincs
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

It is acountry with intractable
problems of ethnicity, a history of
violence and genocide, and an un-
certain future. Madeleine Albright,
the US representative to the United
Nations, describes it as “teetering
on the verge of national suicide.”

It is acountry to which the US

will reluctantly provide equipment ©

and assistance, but not troops. This
small, poor, densely populated,
landlocked nation, located not in
Europe, but in East-Central Af-
rica, is Burundi.

Burundi shares several char-
acteristics with its northern neigh-
bor Rwanda, whose spring 1994
massacres attracted international
attention. Perhaps most salient is
the dichotomy between demo-
graphics and power. The Hutu
people (80-85% of the population)
have long been subordinate to the
minority Tutsi (15-20%). The Tutsi
have traditionally dominated poli-
tics, the army, civil service, and
the economy.

Tensions between the groups
trace to the beginning of this cen-
tury, but certain events, such as
deaths following an abortive coup

COME TO NEW
HAMPSHIRE FOR
THE SUMMER!

Outstanding brother/sister sports
camps on largest New England lake
near White Mountains, Maine Coast,
and Boston. Seek skilled counselors
for land/water sports and arts.

Transportation paid
INTERVIEWS AVAILABLE FEBRUARY 7

Please call to schedule.

WINAUKEE (BOYS):
ROBINDEL (GIRLS):

1-800-487-9157
I ne eenNT?

Myst dl ote,

attempt in 1972 and the pains of
progress towards democracy, po-
larized the already fragile relations
between Hutus and Tutsis, setting
the stage for an October 1993 coup.
The coup itself involved a
Tutsi-military-led attack upon the
presidential palace and other gov-
ernmental institutions in the capi-
tal Bujumbura, and resulted in the
assassination of President Melchior
Ndadaye. However, it is the legacy
of other consequences which con-
tributes to the worsening situation
in present-day Burundi. Violence
erupted in the provinces as Hutu
and Tutsi alike embarked on ran-
dom killing sprees, leaving as many
as 50,000 dead. The army em-
ployed excessive force against ci-
vilians, and roughly 700,000
people, mainly Hutu, fled to neigh-
boring countries while thousands
more became “displaced persons,”
refugees within their own country.
_ The events of October slowly
metamorphosed into a “creeping
coup” characterized by street vio-
lence. in Bujumbura, rural disor-
der, and intimidation of opposition
political figures, all of which un-
dermined the administration of the
“consensus candidate” Cyprien
Ntaryamira, chosen by the consti-
tutional court to succeed Ndadaye.
The situation progressively dete-
riorated following the events of
October 1993, although Burundi
did manage to avoid the mass vio-
lence which shook Rwandain April
1994 following the deaths of
Ntaryamira and Rwandan Presi-
dent Habayarimanainaplanecrash
widely believed to be an attempt
on Habayarimana’s life.
Despite repeated warnings by

“J Secretary abhor ah: > Boutros. ; |

AGG Oils VT ats

France abandons nuclear tests

French President Jacques Chirac declared an end to France’s nuclear

weapons test program on Monday. Since last fall, France has performed six
weapons test in the South Pacific.

‘Many of France’s European Allies, the United States, and a number of
countries in the Pacific, including Japan and Australia, have protested France’s
nuclear testing policy. ,

Sources include: January 30, 1996 The New York Times

Bomb attack injures civilians in Sri Lanka

Over a thousand Sri Lankan citizens were injured Wednesday as an
estimated 110 to 220 pounds of explosives detonated outside a Central Bank
building in downtown Colombo,

Authorities blamed the attack on the Tamil Tiger rebels. Sri Lanka has
been embroiled in civil war for over 10 years, as the Tamil Tigers have fought
for the independence of the Tamils, an ethnic minority which accounts for]
roughly 2 million of Sri Lanka’s 17 million inhabitants.

Sources include: January 31, 1996 The New York Times

Ethiopian Jews riot in Jerusalem

Ethiopian Jews, outraged by the recently released news that Israeli
officials secretly destroyed the blood donated by Ethiopians since 1984, rioted
in the streets of Jerusalem last Sunday.

Israeli officials say the policy of discarding the Ethiopians’ blood was
instituted in order to protect recipients of donated blood from contracting the
HIV virus. Approximately 520 of the 60,000 Jewish Ethiopians living in
Israel are known to be infected with HIV, while only 800 of Israel’s 5 million
other citizens carry the virus.

Sources include: January 29, 1996 The New York Times

Clinton maintains philosophical consistency

In an interview from the Oval Office Tuesday, President Clinton re-
sponded to assertions that he has changed his political philosophy since taking
office three years ago.

While statements made in his first speech to Congress in 1993 and his
message in last week’s State of the Union address may seem contradictory to
many, Clinton said Tuesday that he has not rejected his earlier political
philosophy.

“T have worked on [a coherent political philosophy] for years and years,”
Clinton said, “and I believe that there’s a remarkable consistency in what we
have done.”

Sources include: January 31, 1996 The Washington Post

etc.

Whatever happened to Nintendo?

Kashima University has expelled four medical students for pelting other
students with human brains.

School officials say the three men and one woman were dissecting
cadavers in the science laboratory when one of the males removed part of
cerebral cortex from the corpse’s skull and threw it at one of the other medical
students.

Within minutes a “brain fight” broke out.

The students reportedly opened the windows of the second floor lab an
began throwing brains on innocent colleagues down below.

One girl was hit in the face and required treatment at the university’
emergency room.

The expelled students said they didn’t plan the brain fight. One of the
said, “It just sort of happened.” He blamed the odd behavior on the pressure
of constant study and lack of sleep.

“We just had to let off some steam,” admitted Akayo Hanyu, 19.

“We realize that our medical students are under pressure,” said De
Tatsuno, “But we expect out future doctors and nurses to conduct themselve
like ladies and gentleman at all times.” — Internet News Service

A new nation

“Tf Libya be a nation, why can’t we?”
—Jose Cuervo tequila spokeman, Steve Goldstein, on a company proposal to
make an eight acre Caribbean island country called “The Republic of Cuervo

Gold”

— Newsweek

Boutros-Ghali and relief agencies
that Burundi is currently perched
on the brink of civil war, the UN
Security Council, spearheaded by
the US and France, passed a reso-
lution this past week “calling for
restraint, reconciliation, and the
rule of law” but, postponed deci-
sive international action until after
the Secretary General completes

and delivers a study of potential

preventive measures on February
20th. This action, together with the
previous US rejection of Boutros-
Ghali’s proposal to deploy a quick

’ reaction force on Burundi’s bor-

ders, demonstrates the unwilling-
ness of any of the major interna-

Hional, players ta take, the lead in.

gry

preventing a crisis in Burundi.

Many experts embrace “‘pre-
ventive diplomacy” as the new
buzzword in the post-Cold War
era. Yet, in a situation such as
Burundi, the international commu-
nity seems intent to sit on its hands
even though, as Lionel Rosenblatt,
president of Refugees International
and founder of the Burundi Policy
Forum, asserts, referring to the
April 1994 massacres in Rwanda:
“We have before us that graphic
example of what happens when
you wait.”

Sources include: Jan 29 1996 New
York Times and Burundi: Break-

ing the Cycle of Melee.

a ee
