OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996

A testament to our institutiona

We swaggered through the
concourse of the Greensboro Coli-
seum after the Davidson men’s
stifling second half defense had
led to a gratifying rout of Marshall.
It started in the back, but, as with
many chants, quickly circulated
through the crowd after one or two
repetitions. “‘Let’s Go Cats!” We
yelled it over and over at the top of
our lungs as we walked. As the
mass of red kept walking and chant-
ing, my sideways glance caught
the faces of alumni, students, staff,
town residents, players’ families,
and fans. Many were my age;
some younger, some older, some
much older, many wearing ridicu-
lous-looking red and black felt Dr.
Seuss-style top hats bearing the
words “Wildcat in a Hat.” There
were probably a hundred Davidson
students or so in Greensboro that
weekend, of whom many, like us,
juggled Spring Break plans so that
a long drive to somewhere warm
would occur immediately after the
Southern Conference business had
concluded. Other schools, like
Marshall, seemed to have no stu-
dents there beyond their men’s and
women’s basketball teams. But
Davidson was well-represented by
all classes, all races, all majors, all
houses. ‘We were there, loud and
proud.

The point of this essay is to
defend Division I athletics at
Davidson. I could continue’ the
above narrative and conclude that
with Division I sports, such mo-
ments are possible and more likely.
However, though such a course
might be fun and easy for me, most
of those who oppose Davidson

continuing Division I athletics were
not there anyway, and a flowery
description of our spirited behav-
ior would have no effect on them.
Though itis also tempting to merely
relate how my Davidson career
has featured at least one incredible
moment per year cheering on our
teams, one columnist’s emotional
appeals mean very little as well.
Thus, the best case for the perpetu-
ation of Davidson College Divi-
sion I athletics is made using these
experiences and some logic too,
which may make for a more boring
article, but hopefully a more per-
suasive one.

If the college budget were
unlimited, most of the opposition
to Division I athletics would pre-
sumably disappear. Sure, other
Division I schools radically lower
their standards to admit athletes,
but that does not happen here. Sure,
other Division I schools give ath-
letes preferential treatment in the
classroom to keep them there, win-
ning games, but that does not hap-
pen here. Sure, other Division I
schools cannot take pride in any-
thing other than successful athlet-
ics, but that is certainly not the case
here. Sure, other Division I
schools’ athletes aren’t integrated
into campus residential, social, and
extracurricular life, but that is cer-
tainly not the case here. Basically,
we do not.in any way resemble the
perversity and prostitution that
some other Division schools’ ath-
letic programs embody. Thus, the
issue would have to be resource
allocation, right? If resource allo-
cation is the issue, the debate be-
comes whether or not the benefits

Sara Gebhardt

Wake up and start
dreaming

People think that I am a tad eccentric because I am 20 years old and
have imaginary friends named Penelope and Queeny.

But I don’t aim to be eccentric; I just refuse to throw away my
imagination or my dreams. I feel that even though my childhood is
officially over, I must always explore, create and imagine. I do not
believe that anyone should let the world around them, the world of
Davidson, crush their ideals or silence their deepest thoughts.

Penelope, Queeny and I are trying not to fade away as we struggle
to find the place for dreamers in our generation. My own idealism of|
the perfect society confuses me daily, and I have begun to view my
deep thinking and my inability to ignore the injustices of our universe
as a problem. :

Few people have encouraged me to question. Few people have
urged me to climb blue trees.

I think that the path my superiors and my peers steer me towards
is the one that leads straight to the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow.
But my rainbow is colorless because I feel so alone in my struggle to
cure humanity of its many diseases.

I simply cannot accept the shrugging of the shoulders or the “that’s
the way things are” attitude. I am ashamed that the seemingly rigid,
stiff and apathetic Davidson does not want to venture out of its ignorant
comfort zone.

However, I have a glimmer of hope that others also feel impris-
oned in an uncaring environment and that they will want to join
Penelope, Queeny and me as we attempt to break the chains that stifle
our imaginations, our thoughts, our dreams, our hearts.

Penelope and Queeny need more representation on our campus
because they are invisible to most people. Be their voices and make
their presence stronger.

Please help us wake up the sleeping giants of Davidson. Let the

dreamers emerge and scream, and then act upon their true dreams.

‘Bill Gullan

derived from the appropriation jus-

tify spending the money. Stated -

more clearly, do Division I athlet-
ics add enough to the life of the
college that we should continue
paying for them?

My answer is yes, for four big
reasons. First, diversity. Davidson
says it values diversity, and sees
varied interests, talents, and back-
grounds as a way to spice up our
education. We try to attract the
best artists, scholars, writers, tuba
players, interpretive dancers, et al.
Attracting the best athletes requires
that we offer competitive teams on
the highest level. If we were to

drop to Division III, those great

athletes who see attending college
as a way to compete on the highest
athletic level while receiving atop-
notch education will lose interest
and seek their education elsewhere.
Why would the next John Coltrane
go to a school without a good mu-
sic department? Likewise, why
would the next Michael Jordan go
to Davidson if our offerings in that
area were not up to his level? Our
academic standards must always
remain high, yet our commitment
to attracting those who are also
accomplished in other areas must
never wane. Excelling in athletics
affords many students the oppor-
tunity to open doors. Davidson’s.
doors should never be closed to
someone who has shown academic
promise, and wishes to play inter-
collegiate athletics on the highest
level.

Second, distinctiveness. In
the increasingly competitive col-
lege market, Davidson must re-
main unique. Believe it or not,
many non-athlete prospective stu-
dents see Division I athletics as a
huge plus. When one hears the
word “college,” one image the
mind frequently conjures up is that
of fanatic students rabidly support-
ing their team. I saw it in Greens-
boro. Davidson is the fourth small-
est Division I school (second small-
est coeducational school) in the
country. The athletic scholarships
offered are limited. Where else
can one pore over an ancient text
with a renowned professor in a
class of eight people by day, and
by night watch his/her friend,
hallmate, fraternity brother, laye
interest, or SGA Senator beat the
pants off an ACC team on the
playing field? Our appeal to pro-
spective students should certainly
not guide our policies, but
Davidson’s distinctiveness means
more to us than a mere selling
point; we attend a unique institu-
tion, and just as we should never
sacrifice the Dean Rusk Program,
Division I athletics should always
be maintained. Our special mix of
offerings and programs has made
us what we are today.

Third, we are going inthe right
direction. Philosophically, the
choice whether to remain a Divi-
sion I school should not boil down
to wins and losses. However, the
reason we are having this debate
has to do with resources in the first
place. In Division I athletics, suc-

cess means money and publicity.
Georgetown University’s basket-
ball team introduced many to a
wonderful institution and, though
their basketball team is not repre-
sentative of the school as a whole,
the publicity surrounding it helps.
One is surprised how many people
still associate Davidson solely with
Lefty Driesell’s great late-60s
teams. Our athletic program had a
banner year. Men’s basketball was
successful, but so was men’s and
women’s soccer, field hockey,
swimming, all the way down the
line. And how about Coach Filar
and the resuscitation of our
women’s basketball program?
Success and publicity in athletics
brings needed money, and as long
as we keep our standards high, the
exposure competitive athletics
brings to Davidson will only help
the institution attract qualified stu-
dents. The financial burden Divi-
sion | athletics causes will be eased
the more successful we become.
Fourth, harmony. Going Di-
vision III might make for some fun
rivalries, but no matter how spir-
ited they might become, it could
never compare to the way Division
Isports brings this campus together.
The soccer final four my freshman
year, the baseball victory over then-
number one Georgia Tech and the
men’s basketball NCAA near-miss
my sophomore year, and the
Greensboro experience this year
are the times when I have most
clearly felt the bond all Davidson
students share. Sitting in the
bleachers with just about all 1,600
students watching the soccer final
four was like nothing I had ever

| pluck

felt. We were cheering on so many
levels: for our friends, our team,
ourschool. All that normally keeps
Davidson students apart: different
interests, backgrounds, opinions,
ages, social affiliations, etal. They
all disappeared, if only for those
two hours. ‘It is a feeling each
generation of Davidson students
should feel, the possibility of which
Division I athletics ensures. _

I am writing this the Sunday
we all returned from Spring Break.
It’s production has been therapy
fora mind numbed by a week-long
consideration of hypothetical situ-
ations that would include us in the
field of 64, and salve for a heart
whose dreams were in the end un-
realized. We will caravan to Co-
lumbia on Wednesday. I know not
the outcome. Yet, either way, our
men’s basketball. team has had a
season of which we should all be
immensely proud, and one that re-
inforces the claim that Division I
athletics adds so much to campus
life. This year’s success has helped
spread the word about Davidson
the institution, while giving those
already here quite a thrill.

Our success represents, at
once, a testament to our institu-
tional pluck and a symbol of our
institutional health. Though the
battle over whether or not to re-
main in NCAA Division I has yet
to be fought, I predict that students
will overwhelmingly support the
preservation of an athletic program
that allows 25% of them to play
inter-collegiate athletics at the
highest level and provides won-
derful experiences for both those
who do and those who do not.

“Katie Mc Kélvie
Bad idea, and even

worse timing ...

For those of you who don’t know, Kappa Sigma’s.“Pimp and Ho”
party/date function involves each Kappa Sig “Pimp” inviting two
female students to be his “Ho” for the evening. Now, I could go on for
pages about how demeaning this party is to women, however, instead
I will concentrate briefly on how the actual date of the party is
completely inappropriate: the party is next Saturday, so it precedes the
following Monday’s “Take Back the Night.”

Having this type of party is always a serious smack in the face to
women’s dignity. This year, however, the placement of “Pimp and
Ho” crosses boundaries of any argument of acceptability.

It’s ironic that while next Monday night a group of very coura-
geous people will be reclaiming the right to their own bodies and
sexualities, the previous Saturday a fraternity will have celebrated
destroying the individual, sexual boundaries of women — all in the
name of a good time. This party is a defiant affront to the efforts of|
those whom work very hard to make “Take Back the Night” a proud
occasion for many women.

Yes, prostitution has been a part of women’s history. Incredibly,
however, the “Pimp and Ho” party exploits this unfortunate chapter in
women’s lives with zero regard for those women speaking and
listening Monday night. Many of these women have suffered immea-
surably as a result of the same mentality behind “Pimp and Ho” — that
a woman’s sexuality and body is something she must share, willingly
or not.

No, this party laughs, you do not have the right to your own body
—we do. We own you and consequently can sell you off, and that’s
fine with us because there’s more where you came from — after all we
each have two dates. In the aims of having a fun Saturday night, this
party shows complete and total disrespect for the participants of “Take
Back the Night” and, moreover, their message of reclaiming dignity
and individual control over one’s own body.

