4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16,1996

Sophomore
Lee Burnett
becomes

SGA
Chancellor

By Ranpy HARTWELL
_Associate News Editor

At last week’s SGA meeting,
Lee Burnett ’99 assumed the post
of chancellor, filling the void left
by Adam Hickey, who transferred

to Harvard this fall. Tomorrow’s °

meeting will be Burnett’s first in
his new role.

Burnett eagerly anticipates the
work ahead of him. “I’m looking
forward to it,” he says. “It will be a
way to broaden my experience do-
ing something for the school, out-
side the academic realm.”

Until recently, Burnett wasn’t
aware of the job’s availability. “It
was a real surprise to me the posi-
tion was even open,” he says.

“T hadn’t had the opportu-
nity to get involved in this capac-
ity, so I expressed interest in it,
and after that, it was out of my
hands.”

Burnett’s fate mostly rested
in the hands of SGA president
Warren Buford, who called for
Burnett’s nomination last week.
“We consider ourselves real for-

tunate to have someone like Lee -

come in at such an important pe-
riod,” Buford says.

“We're real impressed by
what he has to offer and his enthu-
siasm for the position and his in-
terest in serving Davidson stu-
dents.”

News is lots of fun.

Have a tip?
Call Kirsten or Randy —2148
They will be there.

or email us at Davidsonian @ Davidson.edu

New Norris scholarship offers
full tuition to scholar atheletes

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Next spring, Davidson will
award an incoming freshman ath-
lete the school’s firstever endowed
comprehensive cost athletic schol-
arship, the Amos Norris Scholar-
ship.

Robert Norris, Class of ‘72,
designed and created the scholar-
ship, named in honor of his father.

As a student at Davidson in
the early 1970s, Norris amassed an
impressive list of accomplish-
ments. He was voted the Wildcats’
Most Valuable Football Player,
elected president of FIJI, a recipi-
ent of the King Academic Award,
and a member of Phi Beta Kappa,

‘ODK National Leadership Honor

Society, and Omicron Delta Epsi-
lon National Economics Honor So-

ciety.

His scholarship will be
awarded “to an outstanding first
year student athlete with integrity,
a strong work ethic, and excellent
leadership qualities,” according to
a publication put out by the Office
of Admission and Financial Aid.

The Davidson Journal says
that “In designing the scholarship,
Norris specified that the recipient
must possess the potential to be-
come an all-Southern Conference
player and must be among the best
academically at Davidson.”

Norris is one of only four
comprehensive scholarships

The brand new Norris Scholarship is one of only four annually
awarded merit scholarships which cover tuition, student fees, and
room and board. It is also the only comprehensive cost athletic
scholarship Davidson offers.

Gardener Roller Ligo, Davidson’s Merit Scholarship Coontinn:
tor, says that strictly merit-based scholarships make up only a small
portion of scholarships awarded to Davidson students. “Davidson
continues to pursue its commitment to meet need-based aid,” she
says.‘ We’re very different” from other colleges and universities in
that “we’ve worked hard to stay out of the merit-based spiral.”

All Davidson scholarships, she says, “are designed as access
opportunities” for students already interested in attending the school.
The scholarships “are tools designed for you to use if you want to be
here.” :

Ligo explains that by the Davidson administration’s way of
thinking, an array of strictly merit based awards “doesn’t bring
students to Davidson who want to be here.”

. Davidson’s new Norris Scholarship joins the Belk and Baker
Scholarships as Davidson’s largest merit-based awards, all of which
cover comprehensive fees.

The Norris Scholarship “gives us the opportunity to recognize a
student who is both an athlete and academically accomplished,” says
Ligo. She adds, “Athletic scholarships are not given completely blind
to academic ability.”

. Two Baker, one Belk, and one Norris Scholarship are awarded
each year to members of the incoming class.

In addition, Davidson offers two Smith Scholarships which cover
the cost of full tuition, and two William Holt Terry Scholarships, each
valued at $20,000.

The Baker, Belk, Norris, Smith, and Terry Scholarships are
classified as Special Competition Scholarships, meaning that the
administration automatically considers all admitted students for these

awards. — Kirsten Recknagel

Friday, September 20...
National Recording Artists

Everything

Located one mile past UNCC on Highway 49 North

10008 University City Blvd.

Coming to The Sound Factory

549-0029

$1.00 off with Davidson ID

