12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS &z LIVING MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1996

OROSCOP

By Dorcas AND THE PHARISEES
Consulting Astrologists

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— This week, you are plagued by
the irregular motions associated with the condition known as St.
Vitus’ Dance. Lucky Place: Belk 222. Lucky Person: Will
Bradshaw.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Collect idols from other
epochs. Cycladic idols are the most collectible. If you cannot
find them on Main Street, it’s okay. Lucky Place: The Cyclades.
Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— What is Euler’s number?
Only the people at the computer center helpdesk really know. Ask
Fahd. He’s there. Lucky node: pollux. Lucky command: dfinger.
Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Halloween took its toll on you.
If you rest up,you could make it to Guy Fawkes’ Day. Celebrate
figuratively. You do not have time to be a serious conspirator this
week.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— The stars show a feline leitmotif for
the week. Be mindful of the less common, yet insidious cat-o’-
eight-tails. Caterwauling is not encouraged as it is a shrill,
howling sound made only during rutting season. Lucky Kitty:
Hello.

Aries (March 21-April 20)— Do not confuse a saltpeter with buried
treasurepeter. You will be so very wrongpeter. Lucky Place: Salt
Flats. Lucky Cycle: Rock.

Taurus (April 21-May 20)— Let the library be your juggernaut. Kow-
tow to Sharon Byrd and Gina Overcash. They rule. Seniors with
theses write this horoscope.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)- Play the“find your professor” game in
Chambers. This is how to play: Go upstairs, go downstairs, go
back upstairs. Wait at their office. Leave. Lucky Place: Lorimer
Road,

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Le soleil emanates from every pore of your
body. You could halt any energy crisis with your brilliance. Bask

in your own glow. Lucky North, South, East and West: you with
Auden.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Hook up with a nodding acquaintance. Eat
moo goo gai pan with him/her. Don’t forget to wear mohair.
Godspeed!!

Virgo (August 23-September 22)- Use word that only septogenarians
(your gran’ pappy) use. Here are some to try: gobbledygook,
whippersnapper, malarcky, hunky-dory. Lucky Place: The Pines.
Libra (September 23-October 22)— Eat tons of plankton, become
rubicund, enter a Round Robin and act plucky. Read Pliny

(the Elder) and curse Plutarch. Lucky Comeback: Whatever.

Go to Game Night.
Ask at the Union Desk.

AKYDZ

ON SOUTH BROAD

international cuisine with a southern twist

An 1859 House, Fireplaces, Fresh Ingredients,
Homemade Bread & Desserts, Fine Wines & Beers
... The Ideal Place To Dine

Lunch Tues - Fri 11:30 - 2:00 under $5.95
Dinner Tues - Sat 5:30 - 'til from $7.95.

Reservations Accepted

Special 3-Course Prix Pixe Dinner
Tues - Fri $15.95 Order by 7pm

259 South Broad Street, Mooresville 663-1859

Off-Premise Catering & Privace Rooms for Special Occasions

DeLisa

Ben
Samantha Balsam, Nick Paul, and Heather Baldwin in Evoking the Night.

Choose your
own adventure

Summerlin produces
interactive drama

By Vic BRAND
Guest Writer

Senior Nathan Summerlin is'a
creative writing major. For his
senior thesis, he wrote, produced,
and directed Evoking the Knight
and its music. The story is alle-
gorical, as the hostess, Imagina-
tion (played by Heather Baldwin)
points out. Imagination, along with
Anticipation (played by Samantha
Balsam), Drama (played by Nick
Paul), and Reason (played by Car-
rie Van Deest), take a member of
the audience into the Land of Con-
text, dub him Knight of Protagany,
and give him a choice: to save or
tokill. The plot evolves according
to his choice, and other choices
during the play.

It comes down to a question
of how much you, specifically, as

* amember of the audience are will-

ing to invest in a work of creative
fiction. The entire production of
Evoking the Knight was geared to
allow the audience to both physi-
cally and mentally participate in
the action. Without the interaction
of the audience, the play (or any
play) is worthless. An imagination
(that of the author) begins.a story,
but unless the audience (repre-
sented by a prince chosen from the
audience) gives, ahem, “a bit of
himself,” metaphorically, under
the auspices of a conveniently
placed cape, the entire story is
doomed. So the prince does, and
you get a pregnant Imagination.
Then the audience-knight en-
ters Context (everything being ad-
mittedly allegorical), a place where
only the audience-knight and a
“witch” (Anticipation) can both
participate in the action and still
maintain some reasonable distance
from the action; for example,
shaved rats ‘with fabric wings are
just shaved rats to the woman in
the tower and to the knight, but
everyone in Context believes them
to be baby dragons. The point be-
ing that what is represented is only
what it is in fact because you, the

audience, suspend your disbelief
and BELIEVE that shaved plastic
rats are baby dragons. Or that the
knight’s Fisher-price sword could
be a real sword, and so on.

The presence of Reason in the
play is also important, for without
her, the audience would be just as
bad off as King Hossenfras
(Drama) believing that his daugh-
ter is cursed; Reason lets us under-
stand that Imagination just has a
beach-ball in her pants, although
because she is Imagination, we
pretend she’s pregnant.

And then Reason must cover
the dead Imagination as the drama
ends, but the baby, who is really
the Imagination who began the
story in the first place, will grow
up so the story can be told again.

The set, strung with Christ-
mas lights and ROTC camo-net,
the props (plastic swords and plas-
tic, flesh-colored rats), the slides,
and moments of improvised dia-
logue collectively reinforce the
need for the audience to read set-
ting, action and characters into the
play.

The rotating stage seemed a
little indulgent, as far as a “‘travel-
ing convention” goes; and though

‘the music was well-written and

well-played (somewhere between
the Beatles and Camper Van
Beethoven), the walking scenes as
transition were longer than they
needed to be, and made me dizzy.

Nick Paul was in top melodra-
matic form; Carrie Van Deest was
appropriately icy; Samantha Bal-
sam sang beautifully, and was ec-
centric in what might qualify as the
wacky next-door sit-com neighbor
role as the witch;, and Heather
Baldwin was sprightly, even with
inflatable underwear on. Alto-
gether they complemented each
other with all the campiness an
allegory demands.

Evoking the Knight was well-
written and well-performed, and
because the audiences Friday night
were so receptive, the play rocked.
Twice.

For
the dogs

Jim Smith goes to
the sheep dog trials

By Jim SMITH
Guest Writer

This past weekend, I, along
with a friend, attended the 2nd
Annual Sheep Dog Trials, spon-
sored by the Catawba Valley Scot-
tish Society. It was a three-day
event showcasing over 70 dogs,
both novice and pro-novice. For
those of you who have seen the
movie Babe, the only differences
were border collies rather than a
pig and no secret sheep word.

. The event was held at Rural
Hill in Huntersville. Rural Hill, the
site of the Loch Norman Highland
Games in the spring, is a plantation
owned by the same Davidson fam-
ily that started the college and town.
It was a perfect site for the event
that brought in competitors from
as far north as Canada as well as
England and Scotland.

For those of you who know
nothing about sheep dog trials, let
me explain. We watched beautiful
border collies herd groups of four
sheep through a large grassy field
following the commands of their
owners and their whistles. Each
dog, in an allotted time, had to
guide the sheep in the straightest
line possible through three gates
and then into a small wooden pen.
After this was done, the sheep were
then released and with the aid of its
master, the dog had to split the
sheep into two independent pairs.
Scoring was determined by the
success and appearance through
the obstacle course.

About 50 spectators watched
in both amazement and amuse-
ment as Scottish clansmen tried to
tempt us with a variety of foods
and drinks, including scotch eggs,
scones, and baked goods. Also on
site was a consignment sale and
pamphlets on how to take care of
your pets and livestock.

Although it was a chilly Sat-
urday morning, the two hours that
we spent there were well worth our
time.

Go, go to
Mexico

By Jit. WiLLiaMs
Associate Arts and Living Editor

Davidson College Presbyte-
rian Church is sponsoring a mis-
sion/work trip to Yucatan, Mexico
during Spring Break (March 1-9,
1997).

They will help build a church,
worship and lead Bible School and
visit Mayan ruins while living with
Mayan people.

The cost will be around $800
which includes construction mate-
rials, transportation, lodging, and
most food.

If interested, please see Linda
Steber at DCPC, 892-5641. The
deadline is December 20, 1996 with
an $80 deposit.
