4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30,1996 : <

Scuba club dives into existence

By JoHN DuNWooDy
Staff Writer

In an effort to tap into
Davidson’s diving interest, junior
Jarett Weinpel is chartering the
Scuba Club.

Weinpel says, “Many
Davidson students have received
their Scuba Certification, but have
not had the opportunity to use it.
What I hope to do is create a club
where interested students can get
their certification, pursue higher
levels of certification and be able
touse this certification on aregular
basis.”

The first official club meeting
was September 27.

Weinpel was excited to see
that the interest in diving was alive
and well at Davidson. As Weinpel
says, “I’d like to show people that
there is more to the sport of scuba
diving than what people think.”

He has been diving ever since
he was 14 and has wanted to do it
since he first came to Davidson.
Weinpel asks, “If Davidson Out-
doors is doing it, why can’t we?” in
response to the planning of future
trips and activities. Tentative div-
ing destinations include the Baha-
mas, West Palm Beach, and swim-

accept their presents.

ROYALTY

Homecoming Queen and King Lora Chavis of Rusk and
Connor Knight (aka SGA President) Warren Buford

Anna Judy

ming with the Manatees in Florida.
Another possible diving adventure
includes visiting a sunken town
and underwater forests.

Davidson’s Scuba Club is
sponsored by the Charlotte Dive
Center, owned by Ken Charnack.

This allows the club to have a
number of advantages: equipment,
trips, and certification classes are
all offered to Davidson students in
the club at special rates,

Affiliation with the Dive Cen-
ter also allows club members to
have a current knowledge of the
opportunities and events in the div-
ing world.

Jarett Weinpel chats with prospective divers.

Anna Hathaway

More fun than a barrel of monkeys
Cerutti sets up state-of-the-art laboratory for the psych. dept.

By JEFFREY COKER
Science Staff Writer

Psychology Professor Dan
Cerutti no longer studies primates,
but the. affectionate nickname
“Dan, Dan, The Monkey Man” has
stuck among his students. “I must
admit that it’s quite embarrass-
ing,” remarks Cerutti.

He doesn’t monkey around
much, though. When he came to
the psychology departmentin 1993,

the lab he was assigned had been -

collecting dust for almost a de-
cade. Since then, he has erected an
impressive state-of-the-art labora-
tory for studying pigeon and rat
behavior that is the envy of more
than one big research institution.
If imitation is truly the ulti-
mate flattery, then researchers from
Duke, Indiana University, and
Germany who are modeling their

labs after Cerutti’s offer quite a
compliment. “I’m very proud of
this lab... More and more students
are getting involved in research,”
says Cerutti.

Cerutti. set up the entire lab
himself, from the computer pro-
gramming to the electronics.

His latest study on pigeon be-
havior is being done with junior
Danielle Carroll. Their research
shows that accurate foraging per-
formance is based more on stimu-
lus position, and less on stimulus
appearance. A preliminary study,
titled “Pigeons foraging in a vir-
tual maze” was presented this sum-
mer at the Interamerican and
Iberoamerican Meeting of Behav-
ior Analysis in Veracruz, Mexico.

Similar behavioral research is
being done with students Brian
Ruscito and Mattison Ward.
Cerutti points to the “magnificent”

Ben DeLisa

Carroll and Cerutti.

scientific work of his lab students
as his “greatest personal success”.

All Cerutti’s behavioral re-
search topics, including foraging,
primates, ADHD, schizophrenia,
and drug effects in retarded chil-
dren have followed a common
theme. ‘What can we know about
the world?” he asks. “It seems like
a philosophical thing, but I want to
get atitempirically. We’ re putting
numbers on behavior... This kind
of psychology eventually teaches
us about ourselves.”

FROM THE ARCHIVES

By Erica THORSON

Staff Writer

approached.

Life at Davidson during
World War IT

Acasualty of the Second World War, the ideal Davidsonian life ceased to exist in the early 1940s.
Despite a shortage of students, faculty, and funding, students of the nearly barren war-time institution
embraced their school and welcomed the return of prewar traditions and campus life as 1946

Davidson College in no way escaped World War II’s far-reaching effects. Young men who were
once eager, idealistic students returned as weathered veterans. Those who had remained at school .
soon adapted to many changes, including a married couples’ dormitory.

In the 1940s, like today, athletics came second to academics. Then, as now, Davidson’s student

Call that Party D.J.

Jeff Stone

for Upcoming Parties

* Best Variety of Music

* State of the Art Equipment
* Cheapest Price

* Fun Attitude

(Yeah, he'll do just fine.)

Call Kim, Gloria, Maria...

at 663-0430

body took part in competitive sports with fervor. With an enrollment of only 321 in the fall of 1945,
Davidson fielded a football team which included mostly freshmen. A staple of collegiate entertain-
ment, the team chose to compete against high schools and prep schools rather than suspend play.
Evidence of Davidson’s pride, the wartime student body relished these games with as much zeal as
would be aroused by a varsity squad.

Davidson athletics at the time also consisted of basketball, track and field, tennis and golf.

Women at Davidson were greatest in number when bus loads of college-age females converged
on campus for weekends of dates, dances and fraternity parties or when Davidson men scoured the
countryside for dates to the Fall, Midwinter, and Spring Frolic dances.

In addition, at this time women made significant contributions to the school by sponsoring a
variety of organizations. It was not uncommon for the girlfriend or sister of a Davidson student to act
as sponsor of a club, fraternity or class.

Even in the mid-forties, Davidson’s Honor Code was greatly important to students. Composed
of upperclassmen, the “Court of Control” established and maintained freshman discipline or judged
cases involving violations of freshman regulations or college traditions. Students were so trustworthy
that both the library and the student store ran on the honor code.

Davidson’s first post WWII graduating class was a mix of remnants of pre-war Davidson who
returned to school after military service, as well as students who completed their education in the
traditional four years.

Did the CATS line get you down? Have any suggestions or questions for

| academic policy? Contact the Council on Academic Affairs, find the

suggestion box on the SGA bulletin board or contact Liz Abernathy, -6809

