THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING _

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996

Cravin’ Dogs mark HOROSCOPE
their rock territory

with El Camino

By WILL Foy
Staff Writer

Bluesy distorted rockabilly

with melodic excellence and vocal -

harmony is the oversimplification
I'd make about Vienna, VA’s
Cravin’ Dogs.

Their 1994 Release El Camino
opens with such a song, “Liquor
Store” and closes with an punkish,
yet still consistent with the pri-
mary rockabilly, blues-drenched
style.

Sensitive vocals with inter-
esting harmonies of both vocal and
electric violin permeate almost
every track. Caldwell Gray’s vo-
cal style is akin to that of Todd
Park Mohr of Big Head Todd and
the Monsters, and some of the songs
on El Camino are reminiscent of
the Monsters’ most recent album
Strategem.

Persistent guitars, lots of dis-
tortion, and a mixture of almost
melancholy ballads, all support the
parallel, as well as songs like
“Treadmill” that make a listener
want to scream “Grrrrrrr’”’ occa-
sionally.

Percussion follows a standard
beat, rarely changing or improvis-

_ ing away from standard rhythms.
Likewise, the bass follows a simi-
lar trek to monotony. These two
facts do, not detract from the talent
in arranging such simple structures
into interesting songs. It doesn’t

Cravin’ Dogs —ruff, ruff!

Cravin’ Dogs

hurt them to have some really fun,
upbeat songs, that almost bring
one to two-step or conversely to
waltz. Also, production and ad-
vice from the Empty’s Doug
Derryberry at Rutabega Studios
can only help them. Violin is used
as harmony, filling melody, and
primary melody, while electric
guitars are used as rhythm and
lead. The lead guitar follows the
sort of country twang expected in
rockabilly, but without being an
annoyance.

While their lyrics don’t really
make social commentaries, the
songs break from serious reflec-
tion into fun tunes about people,
loves lost or won, or a truck. Who
Says a song can’t be written about
a truck, or Cravin’ Dogs’ El
Camino? It’s a good addition to a
CD collection, and a good way to

learn. to like country if you don’t.

This band will grow on you like a
pleasant fungus, and you’ Il want to
purchase their next CD due out
later this spring.

Movie Review

The Birdcage soars in
‘audience reviews

By Ep ACLE
Staff Writer

Robin Williams cracks me up.
I’m not really sure why this is the
case— perhaps my Mork and
Mindy addiction at an early age has
permanently skewed my percep-
tion of all his films. As you read
this review, please keep that in
mind, because I think The Bird-
cage is one of the funniest films
that Ihave seen come out of Holly-
wood in a long time.

Itis not the most terribly origi-
nal film ever created. The Bird-
cage is aremake of La Cage Aux
Folles, alate 70s French film which
was quite popular at the time. These

films work on two fundamental -

comedic devices that have been
used for many a century: the meet-
ing (or, more accurately, collision)
between two disparate worlds and
appearance of something which
ends up exactly opposite of how it
first appeared.

The two films concern them-

selves with a male gay couple
whose son has come home from
college. Upon arrival at home the
son announces that he has become
engaged to the daughter of an ul-
tra-conservative member of the
government. The son’s fiancee
and her family are coming down to
meet the couple, believing that their
future son-in-law has two conser-
vative heterosexual parents. This
sets the stage for a hilarious farce
where the couple attempts to fool
the Conservative parents that they
are conservative and heterosexual.
The acting in the film is excel-
lent on all counts. Gene Hackman
and Diane West are suitably Pat
Buchanan-ish, and Dan Futzman
(who shares a more than passing
resemblance to freshman Matt
King) acts well as Val, the homo-
sexual couple’s son. Nathan Lane
plays the part of Albert, the “wife”
in the homosexual .arrangement,
with quite flamboyant flair.
Despite all of his co-stars’
more eccentric turns, Robin Will-

iams remains the center of the show
as Armand, the “husband” of the
gay couple. He is the film’s come-
dic center upon which everyone
must revolve. His part may not be
as flamboyant as Lane’s, nor as
Archie Bunker-ish as Hackman,
but he finds the comedic element
init. Itis more of asubtle, nuanced
performance, but without it the film
would not have been a success.

Mike Nichols, the director, has
turned in a film which works on all
fronts. From the first helicopter
shot of Miami Beach that leads us
right into the club “The Birdcage”
(owned by Albert and Armand),
we know that the film will be tech-
nically proficient. The beach
scenes of Miami Beach are jazzed
up (not everyone wears a thong on
Miami Beach, contrary to popular
opinion) and the gay nightclub
scenes are toned down but thatis to
be expected. The script is notnew,
but itis asuccessful American take
onthe original. This birdhas wings.
(Grade: A-)

Sign up for Angels in America
tickets at the Union Desk.

By Dorcas AND MADGE
Consulting Astrologists

Aries (March 21-April 19)—In the morning, in the evening, ain’t you
got fun. Never consider naming anything or anyone “Dolly
Lightfoot” (especially a boat). That means that you have to say
it and you will sound stupid. Lucky place: the Big Red Boat/
FunShip cruise.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)—Watch out, bull! The new comet is
zooming toward your room. Building a fall-out shelter might be
wise. If you live through the collision, you will have an incredible

_ week. Lucky place: not your room.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)—Jif is better than Skippy. If you do not
believe the stars, conduct your own blindfold taste test. Peter Pan
is a farce. Look into alprostadil. ItIS the wonder drug! ai
place: the doctor’s office, or the Harris Teeter.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Reminisce about that fateful night you
crossed the Rio Grande. Those good times can be reclaimed.
Lucky rock group: Abba- check out track #12 on Abba Gold.
Lucky place: Australia or anywhere else.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Commence your search for the Missing
Link. This is an annus mirabilis, like 1666, 1492, 1066, etc. (all
dates C.E.), Lucky rock group: Rolling Stones.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Are you alright? Are you O.K.?
You,born under the sign of Virgo, call 911! You’ve got a pulse;
you're breathing. Do something! Lucky class: P.E. 101, class on
CPR.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Explore the civilizations of the
Ancient Near East. The Phoenicians really were great ship
builders. In fact, get in touch with all of your primordial roots.
Hunt! Gather! Forage! Lucky place: any henge.

Scorpio (October 23-November21)—The “I-am-rubber-you-are-glue”
rule.is not in effect this week. In fact, every thing that people say
about you this week is true. That is not necessarily bad. Lucky
rock group: Igneous.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Get your P.A.D.L. certifi
cate. The McGuire Nuclear Power Plant has yielded new forms of
“wild” life in Loch Norman that you really must see. Tally-ho!
Lucky song: “Yellow Submarine.” Lucky Cartoon: Snorks.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)—Do not shed the tears of a
clown this week. We know what you do when no one is around.
Sad, sad, sad; sad. You have reason to be happy. Lucky singer:
Smokey Robinson.

Aquarius (January 20- -February 18)—Have a picnic! The weather is
getting warmer; the stars are aligning. Rock with it all night long!
Lucky place: M Trading Co., Freedom Drive, Charlotte. Call
Hotline for directions. :

Pisces (February 19-March 20)—Stop trying to imitate Rocky the
Squirrel. You can’t do it: No one can. Spend your time pursuing
more meaningful things. Volunteer for psychology experiments.
Lucky place: Hershey Suite.

Call 1-900-PALM-RED to haveDorcus and Madge tell you the future.

House for Rent!
829 B Shearer Street
in Davidson

-1000 square foot house with
3. bedroom and 2 baths

-year lease starting August 1

-$900/month + secured deposit

Call 896-8447

