14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Matching wits with .
elusive wild turkey

John Roe.
Wild turkey represents a tough hunt for springtime woodsmen.

By JoHN RoE
Staff writer

The spring woods in the early morning hours can be magical,
almost enchanted. An eerie silence hides the sleeping forest while the
contours of the surrounding countryside remain a mystery draped in
‘| darkness. .

‘At the first hint of gray, a few forms materialize and a lone
whippoorwill begins its repetitive song. Soon afterward, the sun
peaks over the eastern horizon, and the rest of the woods awake. You
stand now, on the top of a ridge looking out over the surrounding
country, listening for the sound of spring - the turkey’s gobble.

Hunting for wild turkeys is a unique experience, for itis one of the
only game animals that can be hunted in the spring. Trying to call in
a wild turkey can be a unique experience as well, for most of the time,
all efforts seem futile. Trying to stalk a turkey can be even more
frustrating, because they can detect a blink of an eye at sixty yards,
while 'their ears‘are-capable of hearing even the softest of sounds.

So, if hunting turkeys is so frustrating, why do hunters flock to the

woods each year, catch turkey hunting fever, sometimes never to
'| return to their normal lives when spring comes? Maybe the answerlies
_| in the rejuvenating feeling of spending each day in the newly awak-
ened spring woods, or the sweet taste of wild turkey. But the reason
I return to the woods time and time again is found in the challenge of
the hunt.

No other game animal has been in my sights for so long, only to
seemingly disappear into thin air. No other animal has seemed so dead
set on coming into range, only to Charis its direction for reasons still
unknown to me.

Only the wild turkey has been able to present so many puzzling
situations on consecutive days, never offering a discernable pattern. It
is the unpredictable nature of the wild turkey that gives each hunt a
new twist, and makes each decision on the hunters part so important.

Trying to match wits with a wild turkey has often been compared
to achess match. It makes a move, and the hunter must do his best to
match each move with his bag of tricks. However, the turkey can
usually adjust, presenting all new provlems, and soon the hunter runs
out of tricks.

This back-and-forth mental battle usually ends with the hunter
scratching his head, puzzled beyond belief, and the turkey strutting
proudly through the spring woods, gobbling throughout his territory.

If you would like to put your best hunting skills against such a
creature, and if you don’t mind being shut out for entire seasons, try
hunting the wild turkey. It can be a humbling experience for the best
of hunters.

| Weekly Schedule |

Baseball Golf
Tues. vs. Campbell 3:00 Mon.-Tues. SC Tournament
Wed. @ UNCC 6:30 @ Stony Creek
Sat. vs. WCU (2) Noon Rugby
Sun. vs. WCU 1:00 Sat. vs. St. Andrews ~
Men’s Tennis Women’s Lacrosse
Today vs. ETSU 2:00 Tues:@ UNC 6:00

Fri.-Sun. SC Tournament @ Thur. @ Virginia Tech 4:00

Furman Sat: @ Roanoake Noon

Women’s Tennis - | Sun. vs. Ohio St. Noon
Tues, @ UNC 3:00 Men’s and Women’s Track
Fri.-Sun. SC Tournament @ Fri.-Sat. SC Tournament @
Davidson ETSU

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Filar snags two top recruits
Point-guard one post player further brighten future

By Danie, Motz
Staff Writer

Coach John Filar and the
women’s basketball program have
a right to be excited.

After failing to post a winning
record for over a decade, including
a 4-23 campaign in 1994-95, the
Wildcats advanced to last month’s
Southern Conference semifinals in
Greensboro, capping off the best
season in program history.

Now Filar and Davidson have
signed two highly touted recruits,
Jennifer O’ Brien and Katie Camp,
bringing even greater optimism to
the up-and-coming squad and mak-
ing the Wildcats one of the
Southern’s deepest pools of talent.

O’Brien, a 5’6" point guard
out of Middletown, Connecticut,
averaged 23 points per game in

- leading her team, Mercy High

School, to the state titleShe was
named Connecticut’s second-most
sought after prep player, and gar-
nered first team all-state honors.
While O’Brien is a naturally
exlosive point guard, coach Filar

believes that her potent outside
shooting makes her a legitimate
threat at the two-guard as well.

" Jennifer’s extremely danger-
ous in the open court, said Filar,
“Her excellent shooting and pin-
point passing make her almost im-
possible to guard.”

Camp, onthe otherhand, gives
Filar the dominant low-post player
he has been looking for.

At 6’1”, she led the state of
Michigan in scoring at 28.9 points
a contest. She was nominated for
the state’s Ms. Basketball, finish-
ing fourth.

“We've been looking for a
player like Katie for a long time,
and to get someone with this much
talentis an added plus,” commented
a happy Filar.

This recruiting class, which
earned an honorable mention in
the Blue Star Scouting Report, fol-
lows the best recruiting class in
Wildcat history, Jamie and Kerry
Brown and Jessica Montrella.

Filar said this is the first time
Davidson has secured consecutive
classes this strong, and it will defi-

nitely give the team a solid talent
base for years to come.

“Tt’s been a long time com-
ing, but I feel like we’ ve really
turned the corner, ” said Filar.

Filar is also excited that his
staff was able to out-recruit some
traditionally bigger programs and
bring more top notch players to
campus.

O’Brien chose Davidich over
James Madison and Rhode Island,
Camp over Seton Hall.

“Tobeatoutthe bigger schools
is really great. People are
beginning to see how high ourcom-
mitment level to winning really
is,” noted Filar.

Current Wildcats also express
enthusiasm for the new signees.

Said Jamie Brown, “I’m look-
ing forward to playing with the
new players coming in.”

“Jen and Katie bring talent
that continues to build the pro-
gram,” added Montrella, “I’m
happy with the season we had this
year, but I’m looking forward to
achieving more, and Jen and Katie
will definitely help.”

Covington: a long way from Augusta

By CarLo REYNOLDS
Staff Writer

A golfer unfamiliar with
Davidson’s Covington golf course
would have to aim his tee shot on
the par-four by pinpointing the
green’s relative flatness because
there is no meticuloulsy groomed
turf or even a flag marking the cup.
Instead, spring dandelions dot the
fairways and tees.

Many golfers have expressed
anger and concern concerning the
school’s waning commitment to
the course.

Last fall, Burt Arrington, up-
set about the ankle-deep weeds
infiltrating the fairways, phoned
his complaints to the Physical Plant
for nearly a week before mowers
finally rolled out to trim Covington.

Now inan unprecedented state
of disrepair, some students have
given up on the course.

Johnny Frierson, who once
frequented the course, now golfs
primarily in Mooresville.

“There’s no point to
Covington anymore because they
don’t take care of it,” he said in
disgust.

Students echo Frierson’s sen-
timents.

“Tt was playable my freshman
year, but we’re not talking im-
maculate,” said Aubrey Proud, se-
nior captain of the golf team. “We
don’t play the holes. We use it
basically as a driving range.”

Proud says that the team tradi-
tionally practices at River Run or
Mallard Head Country Clubs, both
near Davidson.

He added that the three holes
between the IMAC fields and Mar-

tin Court are intended to be purely :

a recreational facility for the gen-
eral student body, not as a team
practice site.

The Physical Plant blames
Covington’s neglect on personnel

transition and maintenacnce prior-
ity for central campus.

“The guy that used to do it
(Covington maintenance) was
transferred to another department,”
said Philip Cashion, who has re-
cently been appointed to oversee
the course’s restoration. “It’s go-
ing to take a while to bring it up to
what you and I am used to a golf
course looking like, but it’s in the
workings.”

Cashion has been given au-
thority to mend the tattered holes.
The fences bordering the edge of
the facility have already been re-
paired. Building new drains is the
next stage in Cashion’s demand-
ing job.

But Proud is skeptical about
the drainage plan. “I’ve never no-
ticed puddles out there,” he said.

He believes the best action
would be to sprig or sod Bermuda
grass, the preferred grass for most
courses in the south, if Covington
is to be improved for more than
just the immediate future. Ber-
muda turns brown in the winter,
but grows rapidly in the warmer
months, choking out most weeds
with its dense cover.

Cashion says he has not de-
cided how much he will spend on
grass and is unsure what variety he
will choose. But he is certain that
something will be done soon about:
the grass, but that it is the next
stage after the drainage. project is
finished.

Cashion remains optimistic
about the road ahead though. “I’d
say that it will be much better by
fall probably.”

Corey Bean attempts to

