THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 1996 7

Che Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Arts & Living Editor

Business Manager
JOHN COPENHAVER JAMES BERRY CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
; ’ Asst. Arts & Living Editor Photography Editor
Associate Editor MARY TOWLES ALLISON JOSH GLAZER
TERESA WHITE
: Sports Editor Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BEN GRIFFIN
CATHERINE ANDERSON BONNER MEAD
: Assistant Sports Editor
Assistant News Editors MICHAEL KRUSE Circulation Manager
NARESH NAGELLA CHLOE BROOKE
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL Copy Editor
piney CARRIE BLACKBURN Web Page Manager
Opinions Editor SUSAN RUGGIERO BRAD CHASE
KATIE McKELVIE JILL WILLIAMS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Crunch Time

LETTERS

Che Bavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

The end is not near

In a speech in London on November, 10, 1942, Sir Winston Churchill said, referring
to World War II, “Now this is not the end. It is not even the bal cate of the end. But it
is, perhaps, the end of the beginning.”

As graduation rolls around, most of the Hallmark cards seniors receive will have
slogans that remind them of the stage they have just passed through and the life that they
are just beginning. Their commencement has ended.

And so it goes for freshmen, as well. Their initiation to freedom has ended, yet their
education has just begun. They have three more years of academic, social, and emotional
battles to face — not to mention those of school politics; most of the battles begun this year
will not end May 15.

The rally for minors has ended in victory. The first stage of ihpibmentation has been
completed, and two departments will offer minors next year. However, students will want
for them to be offered in all departments. The fight has only begun.

Kegs will go, and closed, BYOB parties loom in the near future. Although many
proclaim the change in policy as the beginning of the end of the tiny Davidson social scene,
if any social life is to exist at all outside Union events, then we should call it the end of an
era, and then call for the beginning of a new one. The battle for kegs is over, but the struggle
for open parties and a policy that legally preserves the inclusive atmosphere of Court parties
has just begun.

And, of course, religious issues. The fight was begun in the SGA two years ago; the
trustees finally voted last week. The debate has not likely ended, even if the trustees will
not bring the issue up again soon. The end of church affiliation is nowhere in sight — and
for those: who support it, the original fight, and a new kind of religious conviction, a
defensive one, has opened. :

For those who oppose the Presbyterian affiliation of the president or the mandated
Christianity of the trustees, the dispute is settled — but will likely begin again. The first
steps in the march towards inclusiveness have been taken in the trustees’ decision to
secularize the religion department. Change is possible.

There is probably no better example than the recent SGA decision to deny IVCF of its
charter in an effort to prevent (alleged) discriminatory groups from receiving the school’s
funds and official stamp of approval. IVCF has lost their first battle, and the SGA has won
one for the books. The issue, however, will certainly not die.

This is just the end of the beginning.

Little has been resolved this year. Approaching exams and graduation banish most
other thought from minds right now, but the loyalties remain, and the issues brought up for
examination this year are sure to suffer scrutinization again when Serious brings new
investment and new vigor to the causes.

The trustee decision took three years; the minors decision took a semester; the IVCF
decision took only one week. Whatever the issue’s age, survival — and battle — is certain.

As the class of 1996 drives away from campus for the last time, they will leave acampus
embroiled in confusion. We are not in the midst of a war, but we are certainly heading
toward changes on campus that will not be readily accepted by all.

The first rounds are over, but the fights are far from ended.

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P. O. Box

219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Unspeakable gratitude

To the Editors:

A distinguished Ameri-
can jurist wrote: “Gratitude
is one of the least articulate
of the emotions, especially
when it is deep.” So, it is
difficult to find words which
can adequately express our
family’s thanks for all the
kindness showered upon us
by the Davidson community
at this trying time.

Since Jack was diag-
nosed with acute myloid leu-
kemia, we have been the re-
cipients of an outpouring of

good deeds, thoughts, and *

prayers which are beyond
all expectation. You have
anticipated all our needs,
from meals to child care to a
shoulder tocry on. Youhave
thought for us when we have
been unable to think clearly.
Your many gifts have
brought much joy to Jack
and Cormac. The blood and
bone marrow drives and the
prayer service have given us
strength and further reason
to appreciate a remarkable,
caring community.

In the months ahead as
we travel the long path to
restoring Jack’s health, your
compassion will buoy our
spirits and give us continued
strength.

Please know that those
who have done so much for
our family are held closely
in our hearts with Jack and
Cormac.

Bless you.

Sincerely,
Susan Roberts
Kevin McCarthy

Race for the children

So a ake Setrr

To the Editors:

' Saturday May 4, the
Davidson Day Care Center
is sponsoring a 5K race (3.1
miles) and fun run (1 mile)
at 8:30 a.m., beginning and
ending at the town green.
The course will wind through
Davidson’s neighborhoods.
Because Susan Roberts was
instrumental in conceiving
and organizing the race, I
hope that the entire Davidson
College community will

suport this event — as run-
ners, walkers, volunteers or
spectators.

It would mean a great

deal for little Jack and sup-.

port a wonderful Davidson
institution as well. You will
receiveaT shirt and find this
early morning exercise a
great way to start your Sat-
urday.

You can pick up a race
application form in the box
on my door (317 Chambers)

or contact me by phone ore-
mail if you can help that
Saturday morning. For
Davidson students, the cost
of the race is only $5.

Please participate in this
race — it will be a wonder-
ful way foreveryone to show
our support for Jack, Susan,
Kevin, Cormac, and the
Davidson Day Care Center.

Sincerely,

Sally McMillen

Asst. History Professor

Great day.

o==D

To the Editors,

We just wanted to say
thank you to all of our spon-
sors and volunteers that
helped make Earth Day pos-
sible last Monday. The day
was a great success and we
definitely could not have
pulled it off by ourselves.
First, thank you to those
organizations that donated
money for the cook-out. At
bestestimate, we believe that
we served between 650 and
750 people which is a phe-
nomenal number and ‘defi-
nitely more than we ex-
pected. So, thank you to the
Student Government Asso-
ciation, Dean of Students Of-
fice, Warner Hall, Rusk,
Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa
Sigma, Connor, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon, the Union,
Reach Out, Environmental
Action Committee, and the
Biology Department.

Next, we would like to

thank all of those volunteers
who helped organize events,
run booths, cook, provide

entertainment, andclean-up. _

A special thank you to: Seth
Clippard, Tyson Kade,
Maggie Scott, Rachael Tripi,
Jenny Rose, Beth Bacoh,
Sara Lang, Amanda Walker,
Marc LaFrance, Dr. Annie
Ingram, Dr. Ralph Black, Dr.
Mark Stanback, Dr. Verna
Case, Dr. David Martin,
Meredith Judy, B.J. Huff,
Will Baldwin, Jennifer
Schuetz, Claudia Lombard,
Ben Delisa, Mary Baxter,
Julie Mills, Catherine
Turner, Linda Daniels, Allen
Clark, Dean Tom Shandley,
and those many other un-
named helpers.

Finally, we would like
to thank you the student body
for making the events as suc-
cessful as they were. We
thank all of you who partici-
pated and attended. We both

feel that Earth Day demon-
strated the support and com-
munity spirit that Davidson
eptiomizes. We hope that
you, the students, enjoyed
the day as much as we did.
Our intentions when we
started this project was to
raise environmental aware-
ness on this campus and we
believe that we achieved that
and more.

Wealso intended to pos-
sibly begin a Davidson tra-
dition of an Earth Day cel-
ebration. We hope that
someone or some group will
step in to take over our spot
for the next year and that
next year’s celebration will
be even bigger and better.

Thank you again to the
Davidson community forthe
support and help.

Sincerely,
~ Charlotte Gray ‘96
Stephanie Morgan ‘96
