THE DAVIDSONIAN

{-
PCEEGHT Wh

ABovt A VERY |

SSE

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
JOHN COPENHAVER JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
Sports Editors
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW Advertising Managers
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE BETH BACON
MEREDITH LUCIUS
News Editors Photo Editor
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA
RANDY HARTWELL Circulation Manager
Copy Editors McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN
NINA BLOUNT » DANIEL MOTZ
KRISTEN RICHARDSON Web Page Managers
Cartoonist CLAY LENHART
Arts & Living Editor GREG GARRISON BRAD CHASE
SUSAN RUGGIERO ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

The Pabvidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

The Grade

In which direction should academics at Davidson head? Toward a politically
correct curriculum? Toward a workload so heavy that students learn to make the grade
without doing all of the work? Toward an attitude that excludes all outside-the-
classroom involvement?

Davidson has always been high stress; we are famous for it. We should not°
complain about this, for we knew that we were challenging ourselves by attending this
school. And we should have learned to enjoy working, thinking, and learning—all
things that Davidson teaches well.

But these attitudes can manifest themselves in different ways. They can be based
on intellectual values, which encourage students to learn and to love doing so. Many
students at Davidson embrace their studies in this manner, and they are the tapes

' ones. They love to learn, but do not base their livelihood on The Grade:

th ether

But many worry that if they do not get The Grade, they have not lived up to The

Reputation (“Were you a valedictorian too? so was I!’””), and they might not graduate
with The Rank or get The Job. Maybe the roommate, or the parents, will find out that
The Grade was not perfect. Maybe they will find out that they are not perfect.

So what does this do to young, impressionable mentalities in a high pressure
environment? It makes them study harder, stay in more, and become less and less
involved. Is this healthy?

College is about studying, academics, and learning. These priorities should never
change. But college is also about enlightenment. Many students find themselves
cramming so hard that the bigger picture is lost—how many forget that history is not
just about dates, art history is not just about paintings, or English is not just about
authors?

Humanities is one program that helps students to understand the big picture.
Interdisciplinary skills are an essential lesson to learn when looking critically at
anything, and humanities gives freshmen and sophomores an entrance into the true
world of humanism and liberal arts thought. To lose the program would be tragic.

Students should step out and look at themselves more often, loosen up and
attempt to create something else than a high GPA. Professors should not be
encouraged to make classes easier (for this would defeat the original purpose), but to
encourage narrow minds to look at other options beyond the study carrel. This is
implied in most classes, but many students will not understand unless it is beaten over
_ their heads or written in their textbooks.

A college community should encourage students to be themselves, Once we lose _

that, we have nothing to enlighten. Some students find the true self in a lab, some in

a tutorial, some by writing a thesis. Others might find their strongest skills by playing

asport or acting ina play. The skills learned in ony activity, if employed with passion,
can help direct one’s future path.

A liberal arts education, a Davidson education, should encourage and explore
student’s talents and interests, not limit and confine them. An education with no true
depth and diversity is a very uninteresting, and unenlightening, prospect. Working
exclusively for The Grade can blind students to their own unique and valuable
abilities. Students should take the path in which they are most skilled and passionate,
whatever the consequences—whatever the grade.

The BPavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The

BPavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.

Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

VETEINS. SSS

KG

. MONDAY, OU EMEES 11, heed ne

LETTERS

Scream For Ice Cream

To the Editors:

Iread with interest Mary
Clare Jalonick’s article in
which she reviews two new
local restaurants. I was con-
cerned by her exaspera-
tion—expressed at the end
of the review—at the lack of
student-friendly businesses
on Main Street.

As the owner of the Ben
& Jerry’s store on Main
Street, Iam obviously very
much interested in attract-
ing student business. Many
Ben & Jerry’s stores located
in other college towns enjoy

strong relationships with
their student neighbors. We
would like to know how we
can better serve the interests
arid needs of Davidson stu-
dents at our store.

We will set up asugges-
tion box specifically for
Davidson students. Each
month, we will review the
suggestions and adoptall that

are feasible within our physi-.

cal and operational con-
straints. In soliciting their
suggestions, I would like to
point.out to students that the
reality of doing business in

a town as small as Davidson
requires appealing to all
segments of the community,
not just students; but we will
consider all ideas. We wel-
come this opportunity to
learn your concerns, and we
thank you in advance for
your contributions.

And just to give this the
ol’ Ben & Jerry’s spin...We
willawarda free Vermonster.
for the best suggestion made
each month!

Phyllis Schultz, Owner
Ben & Jerry’s _

No Ambherst. Wann abe

To the Editors:

I feel compelled to cor-
rect an implication that was
made in Heyward Carter’s
“Backlash.” (Sept. 9) While
he was being somewhat
tongue-in-cheek, I want to
point out that a school with-
out frats is not the social hell
that everyone thinks it might
be. I was at Amherst Col-
lege not too long after. the
frats were abolished (in the
“Darwinist 80’s”, mind you),
and the social life there was
as good as, if not better than

.| many of the schools I have

visited. There was always at
least one party every
Wednesday through Satur-
day night (usually multiple
ones on weekends). All par-
ties were completely open
and very well attended. Par-
ties were sponsored by
houses and dorms: they were
not sponsored by the col-
lege, although if you wanted
to get money for a party, the
college would help out.
Itshould go without say-
ing that this is not a diatribe
on frats, but if I didn’t say
that, I would get a much big-

‘ger backlash. Frats or not,

Davidson is not and never
needs to be an Amherst
wannabe. Davidson is just
as excellent in many ways
and definately has a unique
character of its own. . We
probably don’ tneed to worry
about those pecoeds com-
puter programmers” here
either.

Peter Sheldon
Visiting Assistant Professor
of Physics

4 I you missed our sales-

people, please rap gently
, on our chamber door and,

ask for your own

Davidsonian t-shirt. Or |
call Mary Clare at -2148 -

