bon UB]

ORTA

LIBERTAS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

NUMBER 16:

Buford, Freeman to lead SGA in 1996

By ApaM Hickey
Staff Writer

Warren Buford could taste
victory a little early last Thursday
night, when he was informed that
he was unopposed for the Presi-
dency of the SGA. But for the Vice
Presidential candidates Will
Cowan, Lucian Dervan, Clair Free-
man, Naresh Nagella, and Tim
Saintsing, the race would be harder
fought.

The Vice Presidential elec-

tion was close enough to force a

run-off between the top two vote-

getters Freeman and Dervan; Free-

man emerged as the winner on
Tuesday afternoon.

“T was surprised at first, and of

course I was a little relieved,” says
Buford of the moment he was told
he was unopposed. “I feel encour-
aged ... it means there is support
out there, and I’m excited about
that support.”

“I’m big on service,” he says
when asked his platform would
have been. “[If I had to have run,]
I would have let people know that
I’m a candidate ... who wants the
SGA to be a service organization.”

Despite his four-year associa-
tion with the SGA, Buford says he
has only thought about becoming
president for the last six months,
and he decided he really wanted
the job only recently — within the
last three weeks.

Asked what his immediate

plans for the Senate were, Buford
says he plans to complete “unfin-
ished business” and gauge Senato-
rial opinion on specific issues.
Among his long-term goals
for the Senate, Buford would like
to bring a rides program and a
communication center to
Davidson. Depending on student
support for the idea, Buford hopes
to obtain administrative support
that would increase the SGA’s
budget, allowing it to meet larger

. Student needs more quickly than

they would be addressed through
current channels.
Roughly 700 ballots were cast

-in the general election, held Mon-

See SGA on page 5

IN THE BLEAK MIDWIN TER

Icicles cling to the trees and create a canopy of winter wonder.

Josh Glazer

Clair and Warren: our new student leaders brave Josh Glazer
the cold weather.

WALT hits the air

Station will play “what students want to hear”

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

They’re on a mission. Since
the 1970s, Davidson students have
sheee. emcee iacipate ——

has Seek plagued by obpictes that
either made the creation of such a
station an impossible dream, or
forced it to shut down soon after it
seemed a reality.

Last Thursday however,
WALT, Davidson College’s new
AM radio station, took to the air-
waves. The students of Davidson
College have finally achieved their
goal.

‘Students have been able to
receive WALT’s broadcasts since
late last semester as the station
began legal and equipmenttesting.
“Now we’re no songs testing,”

says WALT Programming Direc-
tor Will Foy, “we’re on.”
Broadcasting nearly 130 hours
a week, WALT is on the air at 1610
AM from 6 a.m. to 2 a.m. Monday
nn seams 6 ‘am. to 12

a.m. on Sundays.

Foy estimates that there are
currently between 60 and 70 stu-
dents involved with the station in
some capacity. Hoof says that
about 40 of these students are DJs.

“Our two goals are to play
music not found on Charlotte sta-
tions and to play music students
want to hear, and the two/are not
necessarily exclusive” says Sta-
tion Manager Churchill Hoof.

Currently, WALT has a lim-
ited number of songs on rotation;

See WALT on page 4

Snow blankets campus for an icy weekend

By NARESH NAGELLA
Assistant News Editor

Despite already hitting the
East Coast.with “The Blizzard”
earlier this year, Mother Nature
struck again with what meteorolo-
gists are calling “The Cold Blast.”
A fierce winter storm hit Friday
night as an overnight coating of ice
and freezing rain covered the cam-
pus and the rest of the Piedmont
area.

The treacherous storm has
caused about many deaths nation-
wide, as record lows were broken
all around the country.

Davidson luckily avoided fa-
tal.damage, but could not escape

THIS WEEK

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

an ice storm’s other inconve-
niences. Electricity was lost in the
part of the town stretching beyond
Concord and Grey streets. Cam-
pus Police say, “The storm rivals
Hugo in terms of power outages.”
Power is not expected back in those
areas until the middle of the week.

The Baker Sports Complex
was the only campus building to

trees and slippery roads. Other-
wise, they report only minor fender-
benders.

Sophomore Sergei
Tikhonekov started: spinning
wildly in his 1977 Mazda while
driving to the library. “I barely
avoided a major crash. I felt lucky
to come out of that alive,” said a
shaken, but happy Tikhonekov. He

to relocate everything from their
room to the 3rd Belk lounge. The
flooding occurred becausé a fro-
zen gutter backed up remaining

"water over their 3rd Belk room.

RLO has given the students per-
mission to stay in the lounge
through the week.

Coates is taking everything in
stride. He states, “It’s been nice to

yes, I did fall down. I had a head-
ache, but took acouple of Bufferin
and the pain was over in about 2
hours.”

Overall, Davidson should be
able to ride out the storm without
too much reshuffling. A prepared
RLO had developed emergency
plans that included housing seniors
in the Commons to accommodate

lose electricity due to large, icy also stated he had never seencon- have a large room with sofas and _ the worst case scenarios. Luckily,
tree branches falling on the power ditions so bad in his native Russia. heat. But, it is annoying to have _ they will probably not have to use
lines leading to the building. The Sophomores Anthony freshmen come in and ask why _ it.
Physical Plant is busy workingon Mackaronis and Andrew Coates they can’t watch TV.” So keep the hot chocolate
the problem and clearing the fallen _ returned from their lunch Friday to EvenouroutgoingSGA Presi- running, the heater on, and stay
branches, so Baker should be oper- _ be greeted by flooding fromhalfof dent had a branch fall and hit his _ inside as muchas possible. The ice
ating as normal during the week. _ their ceiling. They quickly putup head while walking backfromdin- is expected to melt before next
Campus Safety sentoutames- __plastictoisolate the leaksandthen ner at Les Trois Faisans Friday. A weekend. In the meantime, watch
sage warning students of falling enlistedthe help oftheirhallmates surprised Gullan admitted, “That, out for those falling branches.
Grades by Celebrating Latex-friendly Flash finish!
. AIDS speakers confront the Track teams break school
phone conciousness Teas vat frank humor. records.
Davidson catches up to the Sara Beasley addresses the need
real world. for the Women’s Film Festival.
_| NEWS. , 5| |OPINIONS 9) | ARTS & LIVING 10| |SPORTS 15

