12

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

The Foreigner comes home with success

By Rupy BEILER
Guest Writer

On the evening of February 23rd, I
entered Hodson Hall, excited that I was
about to see another Davidson Mainstage
Production. Tonight the play was “The
Foreigner” by Larry Shue. The setting for
this play was rural Georgia, in a fishing
lodge. The entire play took place in the same
room of this fishing lodge, which meant that
the set had to be fairly versatile. The center
was fully open to give lots of room for
movement. The sides were decorated with
a sofa and a dining room set, both of which
were used throughout the play.

. The first character that I met was Sgt.
“Froggy” LeSueur, played by junior Joshua
Gaffga. Froggy was used to being the center
of attention in this backwoods establish-
ment. He told wild tales to the owner of the
lodge, Betty Meeks, who was played by
sophomore Heather Larson. This was
Larson’s first Davidson College Mainstage

Production. She did an excellent job, andI
hope to see her in more Davidson produc-
tions soon.

The main character in this play was
Charlie Baker, played by freshman Nick
Paul. Nick did a remarkable job, especially
with his facial expressions during those
scenes where he was not speaking and pre-
tending not to understand English. Charlie
is ashy man who thinks that he is boring. He
was brought to this lodge by Froggy to relax.
Charlie’s fear of conversation is brought to
full attention when Froggy tells everybody
at the lodge that Charlie does not speak
English. This prompts all of the characters
to develop a special relationship with him,
either thinking to understand him, telling
him secrets, or teaching him English.

The character of Rev. David Marshall
Lee, who was played by sophomore Ben-
jamin Summers, turns out to be quite a
rotten man. While pretending to be a good
hearted minister, he is really attempting to
marry Catherine Simms (sophomore Sarah

Zogby) so that he can get her money and
fund a new KKK lodge with the help of
Owen Simms, played by junior Jared Govan.
Reverend Lee and Simms have a plan to
condemn the fishing lodge, buy it very cheap,
and begin the KKK lodge meetings there.
The character which I enjoyed the most
was Ellard Simms. Junior Matt Smith did an
excellent job with this character. I had a
hard time controlling my laughter through
a good deal of the play. Ellard is the younger
brother of Catherine and is a “half-wit.”
Charlie is able to instill a feeling of confi-
dence and joy in Ellard, which leads up to
my favorite part in the play where all the

‘jokes that had been played on Ellard by

Reverend Lee and Owen Simms are played
back on them.

The scenes were blocked well, and the
action was focused, but not too compacted.
Also, I must applaud Director Ann Marie
Costa for her choice of actors and actresses
for this production. The characters were
well portrayed and worked well together.

AWAREfest 1996 showcases budding talents

By WILL Foy
Staff Writer

I got tired of the snow and ice in
Davidson, so I decided to go west to
' Nashvegas this weekend for the second an-
nual AWAREfest. Featuring the likes of
Jack Ingram and the Beat-Up Ford Band, as
well as perrenial Davidson fav Vertical Ho-
rizon, this 10 band explosion was well worth
the six+ hours in the car, plus getting snowe
in in Asheville for a night.
Gregg. Latterman, creator of the
AWARE compilations, puts on this show
every year to focus on and make people
aware of new and upcoming talents. Some
of the bands that performed we might know,
like Vertical Horizon, but others played
from far away, such as Jack Ingram or Stir.
This year’s incarnation of the festival was a
benefit for the NBA. In order of appearance,
we heard: Slackjaw, Nathan Sheppard,

Albert Hill, Thanks to Gravity, Guster, Ver-
tical Horizon, Stir, Little Sister, Spider
Monkey, and Jack Ingram.

A crowd of around 1500 trickled in
over the course of the night, filling 328
Performance Hall with smoke, expensive
beer [$2.50 for a Rolling Rock in a can!],
and body heat. They also provided lots of
dancing. People came to Nashville from all
over the country to support the live AWARE
festival.

Highlights included: 1) the appearance

of Carter Beauford of the Dave Matthews
Band with Vertical Horizon, with teasers

from two of DMB’s songs; 2) Slackjaw,
with arefreshing voice out of Charlottesville;
Guster, with violin by Andy Hoppel from
Thanks to Gravity, providing a lot of danc-
ing energy to the crowd; 3) Thanks to
Gravity themselves, with a fabulous rear-
rangement of some favorite tunes; 4) Little
Sister blew my mind with soulful and heart-
wrenching vocals over the bluesfunk ar-

rangements; and 5) surprisingly, Jack Ingram
was great, and played honky-tonk country
in a different way, using improvisation to
make the experience interesting for those
who are used to different AWARE fare.

The best part of the whole evening was
of course, the all-band jam at the end. Ingram
led the first two songs, choosing country
numbers for his jams. This may have been
a blunder, or at least the choice of songs, as
some members of the crowd chose to leave
early, but those who stayed were treated
with a rare appearance: an alto sax on stage
doing country. Steve Van Dam of Every-
thing, which was a surprise guest, saved the
second song of Ingram’s encore, by trading
solos of his own with the twang from the
pedal steel alongside him.

After Ingram left the stage, Slackjaw’s
vocalist took the stage to conduct a cover of
“Redemption Song,” which brought up the
Winebottle’s drummer, one of VH’s guitar-
ists, and Little. Sister’s bassist, along with

Van Dam and the newest

CONTEST!

NAME DAVIDSON'S VOICE

member of Everything,
Wolfe Quinn on trombone.
This jam went on for 20

At the Clubd

—— Music in two hours or less

ComPILED BY WILL Foy
* This means good stuff

Tuesday, Feb. 27
Be Here Now (Asheville): Son Volt
Tremont: Supernova w/ Naked Angels
* (crazy punk)

Wednesday, Feb. 28
Be Here Now(@7:30 Asheville): David
Wilcox*
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill):
Kombat (Pt. IV)
Jack Straw’s: Fleming & John*
Tremont: Son Volt w/ Marly McCloud*

Verbal

Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Last One
Standing w/ Lou Raggs
Thursday, Feb. 29

Jack Straw’s: Sugar Blue* (Rolling
Stones Harmonica!)

Tremont: Buzz Up w/ Sour Vein
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Sun Volt w/
Marly McCloud*

_ Friday, March 1
Amos’s: Capt. Cook and the Coconuts
Jack Straw’s: Hypnotic Clambake*
(psychedelic zydeco)
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Space Hogs
.w/ God Lives Underwater & Mr. Me-
rengue

Saturday, March 2
Amos’s: Chairmen of the Board* (Beach
Music)
Jack Straw’s: Flyin’ Mice* (blues rock)
Ziggy’s (Winston-Salem): Life in Gen-
eral w/ Running from Anna*

Sunday, March 3
Amos’s: Colorblind
Cat’s Cradle (Chapel Hill): Pansy Di-
vision

minutes or more of spirit-drenching improv.
Craig Honeycutt of Everything appeared for
a scat, and the jam slowly died down. I left
wanting more, hurried out by the security at
328 Performance Hall.

“ If you’re ever in the mood to pay a
little for a lot of music[ $10 for 10 bands],
take the drive to Nashville next year, and
you won’t be sorry. In fact, you might even
find a new band or two to like.

from page 10

we live after we die.”

Afterlife

forms of scientific evidence [that]

Still, he-urged people to not

where they can see high points in
their life and experience some form
of liberation. Still, almost every-
one wishes to return, not because
death is so horrid, but because of
the children and loved ones they
left behind in life.

_ All the people Moody inter-
viewed said that their experience

RESPONSE SYSTEM

Individuals, halls, houses, groups submit

suggestions to registrar's office. A group of

students, faculty, and staff representation
will select the winning entry.

Contest ends March 1

Suggested Name
Submitted by

~ Ext. #

take the position of the “scientific

‘skeptic.” Instead he wants us to

take the “position of non-belief,”
where we can learn from the expe-
rience without taking absolutist
positions on an afterlife.

While not getting into spe-
cific tales, Moody focused on what
he found to be common between
all the experiences he investigated.
He stated that people can hear the
“trigger words,” like “You’re
dead!” or “We’ ve lost him!” After
that, they leave the physical body,
can see their “corpse,” and become
frightened at actually seeing their
body in 3-D. Next, they see can
see their family and friends lined
up to see them enter a tunnel, be-
yond which is a “bright light, the
brightest orie they have ever seen,
butnot uncomfortable in any way.”

At this point, they all go
through a period of introspection

left them “just not afraid of death
anymore, [they] develop a better
sense of humor, and improve their
relationships with others.”
Moody ended his lecture by
saying that there might be some
therapeutic effects to a near death
experience and that efforts are un-
derway to “safely reproduce it.”
One can do this by following an-
cient Greek oracles that archaeolo-
gists have shown to demonstrate
the practice of “grief counseling.”
Another method is “empathic par-
ticipation,” where you share in a
near death experience with a loved
one by deeply understanding or
feeling whathe or she went through
in the dying and coming back to
life. Overall, Moody stressed that
near death experiences area “grow-
ing area of interest” that people
should “find an interesting but not
unquestionable experience.”
