RIS & LIVING

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996

“Skinny
Girls”

Black Box play brings eating
disorder issues to the stage

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

Ah, the Black Box. The con-
cept is an admirable one. Where
else can you hear the actors swal-
low orcrack their knuckles? Where
else does the audience surround
the stage so that no flinch goes
unnoticed? Where else would
people feel comfortable squatting
over every inch of available floor
space? Laps,suddenly become
empty seats, and two chairs offer
plenty of surface area for three
rears. When shows as popular as
last week’s “Skinny Girls” take
the stage, most of the improvisa-
tion comes into play by simply
cramming the audience into the
theater. :

“Skinny Girls,” a play by
Debbie Morrison, explores eating
disorders through a collection of
fragmented stories. The perfor-
mance opens with a single actress
explaining her problems with body
image. She is quickly joined by
the other five cast members, and
from that point on, the play’s focus

wanders from story to story, char-
acter to character. Each of the cast
takes on the role of a character only
long enough to tell the story before
changing roles and acting out a
differentexperience. use the word
“character” in its loosest sense.
Most plays follow a plot, each ac-
tor representing one character
throughout the performance, but
“Skinny Girls” forces the cast to
shift through several different roles.
An actress might be the focus of
attention one moment and then
suddenly dissolve into the back-
ground to act as an observer in the
next.

Under the direction of Adriana
Arcia, the six-woman cast (Heather
Baldwin, Leslie Greiner, Adrienne
Nixon, Lee Robinson, Rebecca
Smith, and Kay Walraven) tackled
each of their roles with relative
ease. Each seemed comfortable as
a principle character or a voice in
the chorus.

Their interaction on stage was
also impressive, whether in the
foreground or not. At one point,
Heather Baldwin, couldn’t get her
mind off of some Little Debbie

Kay Walraven, Leslie Greiner, and Lee Robinson dangle treats in front of Heather Baldwin.

Bill Giduz

snack cakes and, to make the scene
all the more real, the rest of the cast
wafted creme-filled goodies
around Baldwin’s face as she de-
livered her monologue.

Some other highlights include
the info-mercial delivery of a diet
advertisement by Walraven and
Greiner as well as Baldwin’s face-
first approach in devouring a cake.

The whole cast was in on the action’

to explain “how Barbie would walk
in real life,” and some audience
participation came into play when
Baldwin gave up a piece of cheese

‘cake to an audience member and

watched him eat just for the pure
joy of it. In addition to directing,

Arcia was responsible for the set
and costume design. The set con-
sisted of three low tiers and a small
Staircase leading to an elevated
platform. The space between the
platform and the lower parts of the
stage was occupied by a suspended
white sheet. Later in the play, a
shadow of the female form ap-
peared froma light project through
the hidden side of the sheet, creat-
ing a ghostly silhouette. The play’s
problems were limited to script. In
an attempt to keep the dialogue
conversational, phrases such as
“like” and “you know” infested
every speech to an annoying de-
gree. The reason for this, as I

understand it, was that the script
was taken from actual interviews.
The play’ s message would not have
been lost in cleaner dialogue. Also,
the play offers no resolution. After
countless stories of bulimia and
anorexia, the play didn’t even pre-
tend to suggest a solution to the
problem. I didn’t even feel obli-
gated to heighten my awareness.

Though my feeling were
mixed on the material, the perfor-
mance couldn’t get much better.
And, as audience members peeled
themselves off of one another to
exit the theater, I gathered that I
was not the only one who’d been
entertained.

JACKOPIERCE IPLEASES IPEPPY IPEOPLE IN A BARKING LOT

By KATE GREENE
Concert Reviewer

Sponsored by 99.7 The Fox, Jackopierce
entertained the after-work crowd Wednes-
day night. The event was held in the bus

- parking lot for Ericsson Stadium in Char-
lotte as a benefit for Speedway Children’s
Charities. The parking lot atmosphere con-
fused most concert goers, but the band was
not daunted in the least and played for well
over an hour.

Jackopierce, once a two-man acoustic
duo, is now a full band, sporting both acous-
tic and electric guitar, drums, bass, har-
monica, and occasional keyboard strains,
Cary Pierce reported that the change was
made, because “they had done all that they
could do as a duo.” This new band is their
“dream band,” with its broader range of
tones and different sounds. Jack O’Neill,
the other half of the original duo, claims that
the new band members “took to the band as
a duck crosses the proverbial road.” Ex-
plaining himself, he remarked that the band
was an organism thriving on cohesive vibes.

The first drummer to join the original
members now plays with Reverend Horton
Heat. Earl, the current drummer, was intro-
duced to Jack and Cary on a bar patio. After
Jack renamed him and confused his identity

Cary Pierce and Jack O'Neill.

Dennis Keeley

with the drummer Earl Harvin, the truth
came out that he was Earl Darling, but the
connection was already made and he did
indeed play the drums. Earl began touring
with the band a few weeks later. Cary refers
to Earl as “their mystery guy.” Clay had a
more traditional past, playing for several

other bands, including David Garza.

As for Jack and Cary, they are perfect
complements. Cary, from a Connecticut
suburb of New York City, revels in soccer
paraphernalia and old friends. Scott Zucher,
a Davidson goalie in yéars past, was a co-

player with Cary. Cary also has connections

with several other Davidson alumni, suchas
Ross Saldarini, Kristi Kopps, Rosie
Molinary, and Alex Deagan. Cary exudes
optimism and energy, as well as being ut-
terly charismatic. Jack, on the other hand, is
introverted and enjoys his rebel-on-the-dark-
side image. Although, a seeming Byronic
hero of the modern variety, Jack did not
recognize the character type. The contrast-
ing images of these two play into their
music, exhibiting themselves in the numer-
ous harmonies that construct their music.

The expanded band allows for much
musical showmanship. Cary occasionally
plays the keyboard for audiences, despite
his fledgling skills: “I’m not a great piano
player, but it’s fun to get up and play in front
ofa large audience.” In fact, the whole band
feels that it is fun to play in front of audi-
ences. Stage shows ranged from Cary pranc-
ing around with his sparkling green guitar to
Jack smoking a cigar. Cary bought his
guitar without ever seeing the color. This
spontaneous choice was inspired by Verti-
cal Horizon’s Matt Bennett, who suggested
that green would fit Cary’s image.

The show was off to a start with Cary’s
announcement of the creation of “devil’s
music,” perhaps in reference to the Billy

See Jack on page 13
