6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996

Week i in Washington |
Partial-birth abortion ban vetoed

By Davip SAnTSsCcHI
' Washington Week Correspondent

In a ceremony in the White
House Roosevelt Room on
Wednesday, President Clinton ve-
toed a bill that would have banned
one controversial partial-birth
abortion procedure.

He justified his veto on the
grounds that the procedure is “‘po-
tentially life-saving, certainly
health-saving” for “a small but
extremely vulnerable group of
women and families in this coun-
try, just a few hundred a year.”

Republican presidential can-
didate Sen. Bob Dole (R-KS) de-
nounced Clinton for “‘[rejecting] a
very modest and bipartisan mea-
sure reflecting the values of the
great majority of Americans.” Dole
warned about crossing “the line
between abortion and infanticide.”

This abortion procedure is
done only 20 weeks after gesta-
tion. In this method, formally
knownas intact dilation and evacu-
ation, the fetus is partially extracted

from the womb feet first. The
brain of the fetus is then suctioned
outso that the head can pass through
the birth canal.

It is unknown how many such
abortions are performed. There
were 1.3 million abortion proce-
dures in the US in 1993. Fewer
than 1.5% of these were done after
20 weeks of gestation, and not all
late-term abortions are performed
using this method.

Clinton says that he opposes
the use of this procedure ‘fon an
elective basis.” He had lobbied
Congress to include an exception
to the ban if a woman’s life or
health was in danger, but Republi-
cans refused this proposal. They
feared that factors such as a
mother’s emotional state could be
used to justify an abortion. Pro-
life groups harshly criticized
Clinton’s stance. ‘“‘Clinton’s veto

.. Shows once again his absolute
loyalty to the most extreme abor-
tion advocates,” said Gary Bauer,
president of the Family Research
Council. Ralph Reed, executive

director of the Christian Coalition,
called the veto “an insult to mil-
lions of people of faith who con-
sider abortion to be the taking of
innocent human life.”

Abortion-rights groups were
equally vehement in their praise
for Clinton. “The president has
chosen compassion and concern...
over the cynical, election-year ploy
of the politicians advancing this
legislation,” said Kate Michelman,
president of the National Abortion
Rights Action League.

“This is not about the’ pro- .

choice, pro-life debate. This is not
a bill that should have ever been
injected into that,” Clinton said.
However, the political implications
for this election year are obvious.
Demonstrating the sensitivity of
the issue, Clinton scheduled the
veto late in the afternoon on the
same day as the heavily publicized
funeral of the late Commerce Sec-
retary Ron Brown.

Sources include: April 11 and 12
of The New York Times.

Global Perspective

Yeltsin proposes Chechen talks

By Eric Sapp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

For the first time in the
Chechen-Russian struggle, Boris
Yeltsin has proposed talks with
Chechen President Jokar Dudaev.
These proposed talks come on the
heels of a Russian cease-fire which
Yeltsin called on March 31. Both
the talks and the cease-fire are
major steps toward some kind of
peace in the region and they mark
the first time Russia has agreed to
have any interaction other than a
military one with the rebels in the
break-away republic.

The reason for this major
change in Russian policy is quite

clear. Yeltsin is desperate to end

the struggle. The Russian election
date in June is fast approaching
and Yeltsin is still a long way be-
hind his Communist rival, Gennady
Zyuganoy, in the polls.

Yeltsin has admitted that he
must end the conflict (which is
extremely unpopular at home) if
he is to have a chance of winning
the elections in June. He hopes
that the steps he has recently taken
will be a means to that end.

However, Yeltsin’s cease-fire
and proposed talks in no way guar-
antee an end to the war. First, the
cease fire itself has been a very
shaky one. Yeltsin announced the
cease-fire against the wishes of
several of his military advisors.
Several. Russian generals openly
criticized the decision and said that
it would be impossible to imple-
ment. Those comments seemed to
support claims by Chechen rebels
that after two days, the cease-fire
had still not been completely imple-
mented by the Russian military.

There is also the issue of
whether Dudaev will accept the
terms Yeltsin offers. They are
generous (a highly autonomous:
state, Russian withdrawal of troops,
and an election of a new Chechen

parliament), but they are not what
the rebels have demanded.

Some analysts have asserted
that the Chechen rebels will see
this change in policy as a sign of
weakness and that it will encour-
age them to fight all the harder.
This is always a possibility, yet
one has to question what more the
Chechen rebels could realistically
expect to get.

Furthermore, even though the
Chechens hate Yeltsin, they must
be aware that a communist victory
in the upcoming elections would
be worse for them than Yeltsin’s
re-election.

If the communists win, there
will be a much more centralist and
nationalistic government in power
than the one under Yeltsin.

Also, acommunist victory will
almost certainly cool Russian rela-

tions with the West. While the US
has not taken any active role in the
Chechen conflict, Western press
coverage of the war (which has
tended to be biased toward the
Chechens) has been a good PR
bonus.

If Yeltsin loses the upcoming
elections, Dudaev must know that
the rules of the war will change.
He will no longer face a flounder-
ing democratic government yearn-
ing to be accepted by the rest of the
world and its people; he will in-
stead be up against a government
very much like the one that massa-
cred his people half a century be-
fore under Stalin and the Soviet
Union.

Because of these factors, it
appears that at least until the elec-
tions are over, it might be all quiet
on the Chechen front.

Commerce Secretary Ron Brown dies in plane crash
An American plane carrying Commerce Secretary Ron Brown
and many top American executives crashed into a mountain over
Croatia. The crash brought nation-wide mourning for those on board.
All passengers have been assumed dead.

Israeli-Lebanon attacks continue
Israel launched a massive attack against forces in Lebanon after
across-border attack on Thursday. These events are simply examples
of many attacks and counter-attacks that have occurred since Israel
first began to occupy the nine-mile-long buffer zone to separate it from
Lebanon and make cross-border attack more difficult for terrorists.

European cattle slaughter debate concluded
EU farm ministers agreed to pay 70% of the costs of slaughtering
4.6 million cattle in what Britain. The slaughter is needed to end the
spread of mad-cow disease which has recently put significant strain on
the European beef market.

Passport applications surge in Hong Kong
More than 50,000 people applied for British passports on their
last day of issue in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is scheduled to be turned
over to the communist China in 1997.

etc.

_| Secondary or University Students. Thirty of the 40 students in the

USC FOOTBALL TEAM MAY HAVE TO FORFEIT RosE BOWL WIN

LOS ANGELES—The Los Angeles Times reported March 28 that 15
players on the University of Southern California’ s football team took
aclass in which seemingly neither attendance nor work was required.
At the head of the class were starreceiver Keyshawn Johnson, running
back Delon Washington and quarterback Kyle Wachholtz, who each
received an A.

After the Times reported the accusations, USC notified both the
Pac-10 Conference and the NCAA. Both groups have started and
inquiry into the matter.

If found to be true, USC could be forced to forfeit all games from
the 1995-96 football season; including the Rose Bowl. That would
make Northwestern, who lost the game 42-31 after a Cinderella
season, the champion.

The USC course in question was named Tutoring Elementary,

class were athletes, and one student told the Times they never had to
show up until an advisor told them to go to the final.

“T went to the class, and it was full of athletes,” the student told
the Times. “I was handed a paper that was already completed, then
told to hand it back in. The paper had my name typed on it, and it was
some sort of essay question.”

—College Press Service

we

we

Searoop, BBQ & Carenine

Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks,
our famous Barbecue and award winning Banana Pudding
PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.

DINNER: Tues.

- Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

892-3362

18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

Go Wildcats! Go Wildcats!

Open 7 days a week
formerly Beauregard's

Under New Ownership
Come and join us at Lake Norman's Ist & Finest
Sports Bar Where Everybody's a Winner
Casual Dinning - No Smoking Section

New Additional Menu Items
Daily Lunch, Dinner & Drink Specials
*Wait Staff Wanted*
/| mastercard 892-4335

amex ; visa
Comelius, Exit 28 * Hwy 73 West * Lakeshore Marketplace

3 Wide Screens}

