4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 15,1996

Che Bavidsoniamas published 12 other articles on the subject of religion at
Davidson since 1969, and the balance of views on the issue seems constantly in
flux. The college has changed a great deal since 1846, when the second college
catalogue published stated “The denial of the being of a God ... by any Student,
shall subject him to expulsion from the college.”

In what direction the college will go in the coming years is anyone’s guess. This
week it rests in the hands of the Trustees to interpret one of the passages from the
Statement of Purpose which attempts to merge all views into one college: “Faith
and reason must work together in mutual respect if Davidson is to realize and
maintain its particular vision of academic excellence.”

Religion

from page 1

agreed in February “to maintain
confidential status” on the issues
until after this meeting, and so it is
unclear how the Board is leaning

on the issues and even how its .

members plan to approach them.

While the Trustees’ thoughts
remain a secret, students and fac-
ulty continue to voice a diversity
of opinions. “" Diced

‘Davidson’s Affiliation —

Regardless of their decision
on any of the issues this week, the
Trustees show no sign of a desire
to leave the church’s side. In a
resolution passed in February, the
Trustees “reaffirm[ed] our com-
mitment to an active and vital rela-
tionship between Davidson Col-
lege and the Presbyterian Church.”

That most Davidson students
support the affiliation, at least in
part, seems sure. In a study pub-
lished in the summer 1995 issue of
the Davidson Journal, 67.4 % of
the 300 students surveyed said they
agreed with the statement
“Davidson should remain. affili-
ated with the Presbyterian Church.”

Many of those who favor
changing at least some of the rules
would disagree that the motive
behind the change is an anti-Chris-
tian one.

Freshman Chad Wellmon
says he “values tradition.” But he
states that we are “forcing our-
selves into an absurd belief and
hope that we can accomplish what
we’re trying to.” The goal of
Davidson, as he perceives it, is to
move “from a regional to a na-
tional liberal arts college,” a goal
he sees unattainable without some
reform.

Sophomore Eric Sapp consid-
ers affiliation essential. “That’s
what the Honor Code’s based on,”
he says. “The diversity in the affili-
ation makes for a better education
and a better world.”

Some oppose the affiliation
entirely. In the discussion on the

Timeline

with a more general Christian one.

promote this purpose.”

greater Christian diversity.

issue in the SGA on October 3,
Senior Senator Rick Onkey called
the affiliation “close minded,” and
“an insult tonon-Christians.” He is
joined by 7.9% of those surveyed
by the Davidson Journal who dis-
agree with the affiliation.

Letitia Campbell, a senior
who came to Davidson in large
part because of its affiliation, dis-
agrees. “Having colleges which are
affiliated ... brings an important
diversity to higher education,” she
states. ©

' There are also tangible, fiscal
benefits to Davidson’s affiliation,
though they may be hard to see at
first. Robert Norfleet, Vice Presi-
dent for Business and Finance, says
abandoning our affiliation could
be “financially disastrous.” He
estimates 80% of our donations
come from “Presbyterian sources”
— “individuals who are active
members of Presbyterian congre-
gations who give to the college.”

The Presidency

To many, the affiliation of the
school is inextricably linked with
that of the president, simply be-
cause, as Sapp states, he is the
“figurehead of the college.”

"Religion Professor Alexander
McKelway sees it that way: “I
cannot see practically how the
presidency could be filled by some-
one who didn’t participate actively
in the Presbyterian church.”

Psychology Professor Ruth
Ault, one of Davidson’s few non-
Christian faculty members, con-
curs somewhat. “It may be practi-
cally necessary,” she says.

But that it does exclude some
who may be well qualified con-
cerns her. “I think there are people
who in good faith could [work
well],” she continues, finally con-
cluding, “I’m both forit and against
it.”

The Davidson Journal s sur-
vey seems to indicate a slight mar-
gin in favor of change. Just over
half (54%) of those responding
disagreed that “the president of
Davidson should be a Presbyte-
rian.”

ber by a vote of 18 to 12 that the
president should remain tied to the
church, indicating diverse opin-
ions on the issue.

Some question exactly what
the requirement in the Constitu-
tion mandates. David Kaylor,
Chair of the Religion Department,
who sat on the presidential search
committee which _ selected
Kuykendall in 1984, indicates there
was some degree of leniency in
choosing the president. “Wecould
have hired a non-Presbyterian with
the understanding that he or she
would join DCPC,” he states,
agreeing that the past denomina-
tional affiliation of the president
was not especially relevant.

The current search committee
also sees some subjectivity in the
bylaws. Christine Young, part of
the Academic Search Consultation
Service the college has retained to
narrow the field of applicants,
stated in an open forum in Febru-
ary that the Constitution is “open

to some interpretation”; yet, she ©

does concede that “it’s going to
exclude some people.”
The Trustees

Currently the bylaws affect
the Trustees’ affiliation in two
ways. One bylaw states they “shall
be active members of a Christian
Church.” But even without this
section,.a large majority would be
anyway, for24 are elected in direct
connection with the Presbyterian
church.

* Whatis ultimately in question
is whether or not those elected by
alumni must be Christian.

Ault thinks not. “I certainly
think that the alumni representa-
tion should not be restricted,” she
states, denying that it puts the col-
lege on a “slippery slope down to
secularism.”

Sapp disagrees. “They are the
decision making people,” he says.

Junior Macon Stokes, presi-
dent of IVCF, does not feel their
affiliation is all that significant. “I
would personally like them to be
Christian,” -he says, .“[but] that’s
my personal bias.”

In October, the SGA almost

unanimously disagreed with this
viewpoint — it voted 30 to 2 to
remove the restriction. And the
Davidson Journal indicates 60%
of Davidson students disagree that
“Trustees at Davidson should be
Christian.”
The Religion Department

What seems to draw far more
consensus than any other issue is
the affiliation of the professors in
the Religion department.

The Senate and the Davidson
Journal both indicated over-
whelming support from students
for the dropping of the require-
ment, and faculty seem to have
indicated agreement with such an
idea for over two decades.

Kaylor states, “I do oppose
the requirement ... It is no longer
serving the institution well.” He
calls removing it “a recognition of
decisions already made,” one of

those decisions being to get the —

best professors in non-Christian
fields.

“There are those who think
we could retain the reality of a
confessional community and still
be as well respected in academia,

ought to be an expression of our
Christian faith,” he continues,
though he declines to offer his per-
ception of what the Trustees’ mo-
tives are.

How the department sees it-
self seems to be the crux of the
matter. The bylaws and McKelway
agree — the department of religion
is (in McKelway’s words) “not ex-
actly like that of other departments.”
According to him, it is to “make
sure the Christian faith and the
Christian religion are given par-
ticular attention ... [It’s] not just a
matter of academic interest.”

A statement issued by the De-
partment of Religion to the Trust-
ees says just the opposite: “The
Department of Religion does not
believe that special requirements
should be placed upon its mem-
bers, for such requirements sug-
gest that it is'something other that
an academic department.”

Kaylor agrees. “The point is
not to teach as propagandizing, but
to teach what we’re expert in,” he
states. ““We engage in serious aca-
demic study of religion ... we are
not a department which seeks to

Trustees will debate the monumentous issue of religion this weekend.

but I don’t think that’s possible,”
he says.

But he disagrees that it is ide-
ally necessary to have non-Chris-
tians teach otherreligions. Kaylor,
who once taught Hinduism at
Davidson, states, “Academically
speaking, there’s no reason why I

.have to teach what I believe in.”

* McKelway has taught in the
department since 1965 and has
favored removing the require-
ments on the faculty condition-
ally. To him, it comes-down to
motive.

“Tf [the changes are made] for
the purpose of diminishing the
college’s commitmentto the Chris-
tian faith or Christian Church ...
then I would not be in favor of
them,” he states. “These changes

indoctrinate.”

To what extent all professors,
even the non-tenured in the depart-
ment, must give “strong evidence
of Christian convictions,” before
hiring is in question.

Kaylor, whois himself a Pres-
byterian, does notremember being
asked verbally about his affiliation
in 1964 when he joined the depart-
ment. And Professor Mark
Csikszentmihalyi, who joined the
faculty on a two-year contract in
1994, states “I was not asked any
questions about my religious af-
filiation.”

When asked about the affilia-
tion of the members in his depart-

_ ment, Kaylor responds, “I haven’t

asked them, and I don’t know that
anyone has.”

Yet the SGA decided in Octo-

1957 - The vow which permanent faculty were required to take is changed by the Trustees. The
traditional vow, which once even mirrored the one used to ordinate Presbyterian ministers, is replaced

1965 - The vow is abolished entirely. Faculty members recommended for tenure must now “certify
to the Trustees” (in writing) that they are “committed to the Christian faith,” are “member{[s] of a
Christian church,” “comprehend the Statement of Purposeof Davidson College, and intend to

1965 - Religious Life Committee to the Faculty recommends the “compulsory vesper services
cease,” be replaced with a larger diversity of religious activities.

1971 - Many of the religious requirements are changed in the new by-laws passed by the Trustees,
but several remain. Tenured faculty must be “active members of a Christian church,” and all
professors of Religion and Philosophy mush be “of strong Christian convictions and character.”

1975 - The Board of Trustees amends by-laws; Now, “the Trustees may in special accuracies

grant tenure to a person who respects the Christian tradition without commitment to all its tenets,
but only ifhe or she fully supports the purpose of the college...” though “such cases will necessarily;
be rare.” All Religion and Philosophy professors must “give evidence of strong Christian convic-+

tions and character.”

1969 - “Report of the President’s Study Commission on Davidson College’s Church Relation” made
available. It recommends “that the formal religious requirements for members of the faculty and
administration contained in the By-laws . . . be deleted,” and that the Board of Trustees reflect a

1977 - An offer of employment to Dr. Ronald Linden, a Jewish candidate for a professorship in the
Political Science Department, is rescinded after Linden, in accepting the position offered, promise
to oppose those by-laws (which he termed “morally repugnant”) which informally limit the religigod
affiliation of tenured professors. After a storm of controversial publicity, the Trustees alter the
bylaws later that year to read as follows: “The President is also authorized to recommend for
appointment as officers and Faculty members non-Christian persons who can work with respect foy
the Christian tradition even if they cannot conscientiously join it.”

1993 - The SGA raises the question of the affiliation of the Trustees and the President. This}
discussion continues through 1995, when it passes the most recent of its resolutions on the subject:
The Senate decides that the requirements for Trustees and Religion professors should be dropped,
but that the President should remain Presbyterian.

February 1996 - The Trustees pass a resolution to “reaffirm our commitment to an active and vital
relationship between Davidson College and the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.)”
Source: The College archives and Mary D. Beaty’sA History of Davidson College

