OPINIONS

. MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 1996

Rebekah Peeples

Are you starving your way to perfection?

Today marks the beginning of
National Eating Disorders Aware-
ness Week. Most students at
Davidson, however, don’t need a
national event to make them aware
of eating disorders.

Everyone heard the lecture in
P.E. 101, and most of us can re-
member the signs in the Chambers
and library bathrooms hoping to
help someone suffering from
bulimia last year.

Even if you don’t think you
know someone at Davidson with
an eating disorder, chances are that
you would be surprised to discover
that you do.

Actually, it shouldn’t surprise
us that these problems occur with
frequency at Davidson — a list of

traits that often accompany eating
disorders reads like a description
of the Davidson student body:
Successful. Perfectionistic. Orga-
nized. Goal-Oriented. Competi-
tive. Disciplined. Over-Achiev-
ing.

Given the high concentration
of individuals fitting this descrip-
tion at Davidson, we can hardly be
surprised that eating disorders are
all too common on this campus.

In addition to these personal-
ity traits that could make a
Davidson student more prone to
developing an eating disorder, the
stressful environment of Davidson
academic life does us no favors.

Although eating disorders de-
velop from a wide range of indi-

vidual factors, many recoverers say
that it’s not necessarily about be-
ing thin. Eating disorders are often
about control, about thinking, “IfI
can’t control my grades, my
friends, or my environment, then
at least I can control my body.”
Eating disorders also involve
a complex web of emotional is-
sues. A friend from home who has
wrestled with anorexia for several
years confided to me over Christ-
mas break that, for her, the disease
was her weapon against pain; the
way she found to numb herself
from the agony of grief, loss, and
failure. Her body became the ca-
sualty of a personal emotional war.
If we begin to understand these
diseases more fully, we begin to

realize that the cure is far more
complex than just eating. For us to
be able to help a friend or loved one
who suffers from disordered eat-
ing, we must be willing to reach
beyond the comfortable remedy of
cooking their favorite meals.

We must begin to accept our-
selves as we are — faults and all —
and give ourselves permission to
not be perfect.

The struggle for perfection can
lead us to sacrifice relationships,
experiences, and our physical be-
ings if that struggle becomes an
eating disorder.

In the meantime, this week
offers tremendous opportunities to
learn both about eating disorders
and about how to help a friend who

might be suffering from one. This
evening, Dr. DeWitt Crosby and
Georgia Ringle will join a group of
students to. discuss “What Helps”

‘through students’ personal ac-

counts at 7:30 in the Carolina Inn.
Wednesday, Dr. Nina
Serebrenikov will present “The
Very Skinny Woman in the Very
Expensive Clothes: Images of
Women in Advertising” at 7:30 in
the. VAC.

Finally, the Student Counsel-
ing Center will offer free screen-
ing for eating disorders from 9
a.m. to noon every day this week.

Iurge everyone to take advan-
tage of the opportunities this week
to become more educated about a
disease that hits so close to home .

Naresh Nagella

1 in 1618

Name: Seth DeVere Clippard
Year: Junior
Hometown: Chattanooga, TN

Favorite class yet at Davidson: Modern Criticisms of Religion with Dr.
.| Poland.

Prediction for Election ‘96: Clinton.

Favorite place on campus: Right now it’s the gravel walkway’ between the
‘| library and Duke at night.

Rachel Cockrill thinks that Davidson fosters regression. Do you think!
you’ve grown or regressed in your time here?

I think I’ve grown. Some of my growth I would attribute to observing the}
regression of others. Other factors like going abroad and various people I’ ve
met here helped me grow. There is one aspect of Davidson whichseems to}
be a reinforcement of a high school mentality — in regards to social life.

Some [students] are academically mature but emotionally are in some sort}
of limbo. :

What do you do in your free time?
What free time? I like to sit and breathe. Go slowly, smile and breathe.
That’s a quotation from Thichnhathahn — a Buddhist monk.

This week, Tripp Franklin asks “Can love exist at Davidson?” What do
you think?

Yes. I think in terms of just two hearts coming together without any concern|
for their surroundings or their environment that that’s something that can|
happen because that is the kind of coincedence that occurs all over the world,
But, in terms of an actual, working relationship, if you throw the ingredient]
of Davidson it increases the difficulty ten fold. In terms of a nonintimate
kind of love that strangely Davidson is really conducive to have someone
grow like that. ...

If you did it all again would you come back to Davidson?
Oh yeah.

In the January 29 issue of The Bavidsonian
a sentence in the article “Davidson and the
Church” by A.J. McKelway read, “Exclusion
defeats not only good learning, but the very
openness and inclusiveness that defines au-
thentic Christianity.” The correct version is,
“Exclusion defeats not only good learning,
but also the openness essential to a Christian
approach to higher education.” We apologize
for the mistake.

. $0, and these cycles are

Seize challenge
of the new age!

Well, we are well into our new year, and that
feeling of “newness” still exists. You know, that
feeling of a clean state on which lies redemption
and hope that this year we will grow, be better, and
do more than we did last year. I can see it on
everyone’s faces and mine. Everyone’s classes are
better this semester, and everyone is studying, our
youthful idealism is shining bright. At least, until
we get our first grades. Yes, everywhere you can
feel the hope, the vigor, the dreams, the “newness.”
Still, some skeptics out there are probably think-

‘ing, “Yeah, but it will get old soon. Everything

does. We’ ll all be hating life in about two weeks.”
Most years, I would agree, but in 1996, I beg
to differ.

Do You Want To Go Today?” Yes, the richest man
on this planet wants us to go somewhere, do some-
thing. He wants us to grow, search, and discover.
As long as you do it on Windows ‘95. ;

You say so far this “Doing Stuff” stuff is
confined only to the elite, huh? Well, don’t worry
it would trickle down — onto the funny pages.
Everyone’s favorite comic strip ended with 1995
as Bill Watterson drew Calvin and Hobbes or the
last time.

What was that strip’s last message, you ask?
Well, it featured our favorite eight year old and his
tiger walking in the morning to play in a new snow.
Hobbes comments, “Isn’t it great, Calvin? It’s (the
snow) is like a brand

Folks, we are in a
cycle. At least I think
weare. We gointothese
cycles every 10 years or

usually grouped by the
decade in which they be-
gin. You know, 60s lib-
eralism, 70s weirdness,
and 80s greed. Many of
you might be thinking,
what about the 90s?

Well, I think I have the
answer and it is not
Hootie and the Blow-

fish. The 90s will be |
the “Decade of Doing.”

new piece of paper to ~
draw on?” Calvin, for
once, agrees and talks
about life’s challenges.
Finally, the two
friends slide away, with
Calvin last words be-
ing, “Let’s go explor-
ing!” Even a little kid
and his doll are telling
us that there is a whole
: world out there, that we

Well, I think Ihave
the answer and it is not Hootie and the Blowfish.
The 90’s will be the “Decade of Doing.”

It’s already started. Actually, the first sign of
it was in 1990, with the release of Dead Poets
Society. This movie touted the mantra “Carpe
Diem.” People thought that was cool. Everybody
was talking about seizing this and seizing that.
Then, the Gulf War and the recession happened.
War and lack of money can really put a damper of
doing or seizing stuff. So the decade stalled for a
little while.

Enter the first liberal to enter the White House
in 12 years. He won on a platform of “change” in
1992. He wanted to get things done. He wanted to
do stuff. The “Revolution of Doing” had started. It
had Presidential approval. He would change his
mind about this, like he does everything else, but he
would return later. He always does (more on that
later).

Next, enter a man so rich he could bi) your
parents. Bill Gates and his Windows have hit it big
this decade. This man and his software run the
world. Along with his rise, came the internet and
World Wide Web, a.k.a, “A great way to spend
three hours in the library not studying.”

Anyway, his company’s slogan is: “Where

‘can make it whatever
we want, and that it is ours to explore. As, long as
we go somewhere and do some stuff. That is the
key.

Finally, we come back to our President who
finally gave direct approval to this decade by
declaring “The Age of Possibility” in his State of
the Union speech. He sees a possibility of better
schools, safer streets, and a new morality. Anyway
you look at it, though, possibility can only mean
one thing: stuff will happen, things will be done.
It’s all possible, now.

Well, there you have it everyone. We are in
the “Age of Possibility.” We can “go anywhere we
want on any day.” And, we should all “go explor-
ing.” Carpe Diem can come in any form, now. It
has blossomed and matured.

So, I hope you are happy with the “Decade of
Doing.” I am. I hope it leads to people loving and
understanding life. I hope people will nat so much
“seize the day” as “seize the challenge.” The op-
portunities and possibilities are endless.

Who knows what the next decade, which will
be the next century, will bring? Right now, all you
can do is do something, go somewhere, or explore.

_ You better hurry, though. Only five more years are

left. This decade should be longer.
