THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS KL LIVING MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1996 13

Ait the Clubs

— Music in two hours or less—

ComPILED BY CLAY COFER

Monday, Sept. 30

Double Door: Jim Brock, Rick
Blackwell, Johnny
Alexander, Charles -
Hairston, & Joe Lindsey

Rainbow Deli/Arboretum
(Cornelius): Green Eggs
and Jam Rockafellas’
(Columbia, SC): Angie
Aparo

Tuesday, Oct. 1

Pterodactyl: 80’s Dance night

Mythos: College night - Techno

Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic
Rorrer & The No Name
Band

Ziggy’s (Winston Salem):
Underfoot

Amos’: Bill Hanna & Ziad

Wednesday, Oct. 2

Amos’: Acoutic Jam w/ Jody &
Jesse

Double Door: Dingo Wilder

Coyote Joe’s (country): Vic
Rorrer & The No Name
Band

Club 2000: College night Dance

Comedy Zone: Lance Montaito

Jack Straw’s: Treadmill
Trackstar

Ziggy s (Winston Salem): The
Specials w/ Skinner Box
(Ska)

Thursday, Oct. 3

Baha: Retro 80’s Dance night

Double Door: Tab Benoit

Comedy Zone: Lance Montaito

Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

Tremont: Sub Pop Pearl Jam
Party Featuring Chixdiggit
& Lodestar

Friday, Oct. 4

Tremont: Electro-Luxe/ Days
of Rage

Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

Saturday, Oct. 5

Double Door: Debbie Davies

Baha: Dance (No Cover Before
10:00)

Pterodactyl: Alternative Dance
(1/2 off before 11pm)

Tremont: Black Sabbath Night

Sunday, Oct. 6

Double Door: Seconds Flat
(8:00pm)

Jeremiah’s Copacabana: Free
dance lessons at 8:30pm
(Salsa & Meringue!)

Club Phone #’s

Double Door Inn: 376-1446
Jack Straw’s: 347-8960
Blockbuster Pavilion: 337-2883
Baha: 525-3343

Coyote Joe’s: 399-4946
Tremont Music Hall: 343-9494
Amos’: 527-6611

Comedy Zone: 568-4242

Palatable Pleasures :
Baking Bread
Jeff returns inspired from his

pilgrimage of embodiment

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE
Chef-in-Residence

The protocol I am using this week comes out of McCall’s Cook
Book (1963). Before I walk you through the bread, I’d like to talk about
the value of domestic skills. McCall’s introduction to the bread section
reads, “The fragrance of bread baking in the kitchen is so heavenly we
think it should be bottled and sprayed about! There is something about
baking her own bread that’s deeply satisfying to a woman, and nothing
makes a husband feel more flattered, more pampered” (page 84).

As a male, I find this deeply alarming, not because it’s sexist, but
because it places women in an extremely powerful’ position—in the
kitchen. In the aftermath of all the bra-burnings, many women have
willingly abandoned their position of power. When one controls the
preparation of food, one controls the quality of life for everyone they
feed. That is sheer power. Ever see the bumper sticker that reads, “Ain’t
nobody happy if Momma ain’t happy.”? Momma has that power
because she controls the kitchen and thus the quality of life. Don’t stand
around scratching your balls feeling sorry for yourself because your live
in girl-friend makes more money than you. Let her do the hunting while
you control the quality of preparation and thus the quality of life.

If you are too macho for the kitchen, you better get ready for the .

leash. If someone else is feeding you, someone else has serious control
over you. Ideally, the power of the kitchen is balanced between the sexes
so that both can enjoy the deep satisfaction and broadened perspective
that comes with-cooking and growing.

There is something special about baking your own bread. Bread
machines are certainly a time saving technological convenience, but you
will miss something if you try to make you life ultra-convenient. Yes,
baking bread is certainly work, however, work can be extremely satis-
fying if you have the right attitude. Our species has been baking bread
since the dawn of civilization, and when you feel the warm, moist dough
in between your fingers, you are one step closer to the collective human
soul. It is almost like something buried deep within your tangled mass
of DNA awakens and proclaims that bread is simply good. So, friends,
journey deep within yourselves, with an open mind, and prepare to ride
the swirling wave of collective human awareness. Indeed, bread is good.

Enough Dogma—here’s what you do:

In a small sauce pan heat 1 cup milk until you see bubbles around
the edges. Remove it from heat and and add 1 tablespoon of salt , 2
tablespoons of sugar, 1/2 cup of honey, and a quarter cup of BUTTER.
Now, stir it all up.

Next take 2 packs of active dry yeast and allow them to be born again
(rehydrated) in 1.5 cups of warm water (about 110 F). When the yeast
in in solution, add it to the luke-warm butter/honey mix.

Now, throw the mix into a big bow] and whisk in 2.5 cups of unsifted
whole wheat flour. Now add 2.5 cups of sifted bread flour and mix it in
with a wooden spoon. In .5 cups intervals, add an additional 2.5 cups
of unsifted whole wheat flour. If you add all the flour at once, it will be
hard to mix it in well.

This is the fun part. Dust a large surface (cutting broad or table top)
with flour, and throw you dough on the table and start to work the dough.
Kneed it for about ten minutes and add flour until the dough in just
slightly sticky to the touch.

After you have had your way with the dough, place it in a large
greased bowl and then flip the dough so that both sides are covered in the
fat. Fat locks in moister for the rising process. Cover the bowl and allow
the dough to rise until it doubles in bulk. Now, punch the dough down
with a swift open palm strike. Remove it from the bowl and divide the
dough into two piles and shape them into loaves.

Grease two loaf pans and place the loaves inside and allow them to
rise for about thirsty more minutes so the dough takes the shape of the

an.
‘i Now, say a prayer to your oven. If you live on campus, your oven
is a strange and fickle beast. The apartment ovens sometimes run hot—
very hot. You have to form you own personal oven relationship or all
your work will be charred. Preheat to 400 F if you have a real oven, and
300-400 F if you live on Martin court. Like any serious relationship, it
takes time and effort to work out the details. Good luck.

If your oven decides it wants to aid your cause, bake your bread until
the outside of the bread is hard. Knock on your loaf and it should sound
hollow when it is done.

If the outside is charred, and the inside in dough, then your oven is
too hot. If you desire a lighter crust, cover your loaves with foil, and they
should not brown as quickly.

When they are done be sure and let your bread cool on a wire rack
for about 20-30 minutes.

By Dorcas AND SLIM
Consulting Astrologists

"person in the room.

| Capricorn (December 21-January 19)— Drink eggnog out of
season. It’s thick but it flows. Burn a yule log. Strike the harp
and join the chorus. Lucky Inane Trill: Falalalalalalala.

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Gouge precious gems from
plain rock. Make sure that it is metamorphic rock because
sedimentary will just crumble. Work hard and you will prosper.
Lucky Rock: Geode. Lucky Gradation: Mohs’ scale of hardness.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— An itinerant moonbeam visits your
room. Not Moon Zappa. Treat it with kindness and you shall be
rewarded with the blessing? of eternal fecundity, treat it with
disdain and you will die. Lucky Place: that stonehenge-esque
circle of benches across Jackson Court.

Aries (March 21-April 19)— Order a plate from the Franklin Mint.
Before you know it, its value will have appreciated by thousands
and/or millions of dollars, maybe even while you are on the
phone. Lucky- yet Very Limited Edition- Plate: Yul Brynner in

The King and I.

heart. You are fah-bulous.

take me away.

Libra (September 23-October 22)— This week you are truly outra
geous, like Gem! Do not dress like a Misfit. No one else is the
same. Lucky person: Synergie.

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— Orgasm ostensibly on an
outrigger oscillating o’er oceans 0’ opiates, Lucky Fleur: Poppy. |
Lucky Obelisk: Cleopatra’s Needle or Gargamel’s Castle.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)- This week, hone your
third grade vocabulary. Do MadLibs™ Lucky category: name of

Taurus (April 20-May 20)- Learn to hate the word sleuth. Read
Nancy Drew. She had titian hair. You could solve mysteries. Try
this one: main street parking. Lucky expletive to exclaim when
the villain is revealed: zoinks or drat.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Celebrate peoples with the first letter “c”.
Carthaginians, Circassions, Cytherans, Celts, Carolingians, Cali
fornians, Croats, Cretans are all worthy of deference.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You are the light of our lives and the fire
of our loins. Every little thing you do is magic in a young girl’s -

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Think big: it will help you to realize your
life’s goal, if you have one. Lucky Big Things: Colossus at
Rhodes, Yeti or Sasquatch, Godzilla, my ego.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— You may be a lucky star, but I
don’t think so. Bathe in lye. It only stings at first. You will feel
refreshed but your epidermis will show. Lucky Phrase: Calgon™

Jack

from page 10

Graham followers flooding
Ericsson stadium. New songs and
oldsongs comprised their set. “Get
To Know Me Better,” a song from
their second album, Bringing On
the Weather, had a new electric
edge toit, rather than being a simple
acoustic number. The crowd
seemed to like the new sound, but
some preferred the acoustic nature
with a simple drum and bass addi-
tion.

“Six Page Letter,” a song off
their new album, Finest Hour, re-
veals their break from acoustic
guitar into a full band sound. The
electric guitar and classic acoustic
rhythm guitar blend in a reminis-

cence of old Jackopierce sounds,
while concurrently pushing for-
ward into a new era of music. The
singable chorus provided the per-
fect opportunity for crowd partici-
pation. While a definite break from
the original sound, “Six Page Let-
ter” still has the crowd pleasing
sound of Jackopierce’s reputation.

Similar to other big name
southern bands, Jackopierce de-
pends on a fan base drawn from
crowds at their shows — rather
than MTV—to bring about their
support and success. Playing live
shows for the majority of the year
across the nation, Jackopierce en-
joyed playing to the solid fan base
in Charlotte. All fans, new and
old, are encouraged to see the
band’s next North Carolina show
at Ziggy’s in Winston-Salem on
October 11th.

A Play: “Love Letters”

On October 5, the Union Board will host the Commu-
nity Players in the 900 Room, presenting “Love Letters,” a
modern dramatic play which debuted on Broadway in 1989.
The two featured actors will be Don Kimmel, professor of
Biology at Davidson and his wife Meg, who is the director
of research and Stewardship. The performance is the first
time that dessert will accompany a performance for stu-
dents. Ten desserts will be catered for the event. The play
begins at 8 p.m.; doors open at 7:30 to general seating.

