THE DAVIDSONIAN

Joseph Hayworth

The face of Davidson is about
to change forever. By the end of
the fall semester keycard doors
will become a familiar sight on the
Chambers building. As the locks
go up I find that one of the
philosophies of Davidson might
change as well once Chambers has
been transformed. The college has
always valued and even prided it-
self on its openness to the commu-
nity and the world, and it was this
friendliness that first attracted me
to this campus. As a visual symbol
of this welcoming spirit the Cham-
bers Building has greeted me and
many other prospective students at
one time or another for over sev-
enty years. Its open, unlocked , and

welcoming ambiance not only al- :

lowed me the opportunity to con-
verse with teachers and students
alike, but was also a decisive factor
in my decision to attend Davidson.
It is this openness that I ‘m afraid
will be lost once keycards are in-

stalled and all of the antiquated
doors currently on the building are
removed. Even though the town
and the college will hopefully still
be as hospi-
table as they

OPINIONS -

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 1996 9

night pilgrimage to Chambers this
year in search of a silent sanctuary
to study in. No matter what hour
you arrive there the hall lights are

protection of college property. I
fail to understand why when we
have both a small campus and an
award winning campus police de-
partment
that

were before,

, Haven’t most female students been offered courses in further
we will not be ‘ security
abis-to offer self defense?... If nobody has been harmed, injured, or ates:
physical proof Otherwise assaulted in Chambers after hours since it was sinediard
that we can put built, why. are these actions needed now? neces-
that belief into sary.
effect. The

Here’s a quick quiz. It’s 2:00 on 24 hours a day , sevendaysa campus police make regular pa-
am and you’ ve still gotsome study- weekforyourconvenience. While trols of Chambers every night, and

ing to do. Little Library and the
Union are both closed. Your dorm
hall is so noisy it could easily be
considered the campus dance club.
This makes it nearly impossible to
think (much less study) there. It’s
too dark to study outside. And the
library’s 24 hour room resembles
an insane asylum. Where do you
usually go? If you are like me you
probably have already made a late

lives a little better.

stupid.

what they can get away with.

history majors know this.

Good Luck.

Heyward Carter

Backlash

Having a vested interest in the success of the Class of 2000, I
am offering advice that I was never given to make your miserable

1) Don’t be “that guy.” As in, “that guy who can open beer bottles
with his butt cheeks” or “that girl who threw up on Dr. Kuykendall.”.
You will always be “that guy,” at least until you do something more

2) Don’t grow facial hair. It’s not as cool as you think. Aside from
the look your parents will give you when you go home for Thanks-
giving, there is very little value in a goatee or anything equally
obnoxious. Besides, if you are like I was as a freshman, you are not
going to be very good at it anyway.

3) Get a cool nickname. Like KingPin, or Zombie Jim, or Pinto.

Anything with “Dawg” behind it is a definite winner. Initials, like

KG, are good too. However, you should avoid signing papers with

you nickname or wearing t-shirts with your nickname on it. Every-
_ one else might not know just how cool you are.

4) Keep your head down. If you feel compelled to speak up in class,
do it if you must. But otherwise, it is best not to get a reputation for
anything as a freshman. This sort of falls under being “that guy” but
you have three and a half more years to ruin your reputation, so why
blow it all first semester freshman year?

5) Never ever ask a senior what they are going to do when they
graduate. This makes them sad and often violent. You could get
hurt. In fact, if you really have to talk to someone older than you,
go with juniors. Seniors are jaded and probably wouldn’ttalk to you
anyway, and sophomores are just as stupid as you, exceptthey know

. 6) Learn how to deny the validity of the question. Virtually every
question that you don’t know the answer to can be argued about. If
the question isn’t valid, then your answer can’t be wrong, only
confusing. Stated simply, everything in college is apples and
oranges. If the professor wants apples, give them oranges, and lots
of them. A related point: every essay question in any history class
can be answered by talking about “socio-political changes.” All

7) You are notas cute/smart/tan as they say you are. Every year, the

. entering freshman class is supposed to be the smartest or best
smelling in history, but that is a lie to keep’you from dropping out
and to motivate the sophomores. No one believes it anymore,
except the freshmen and their parents. Look around you. This
really shouldn’t come as a shock,

Chambers will always be there I
feel that something will be miss-
ing if keycards are installed.
Maybe it’s just me, but I don’t like
the idea of a silent Chambers sud-
denly being interrupted by the ex-
asperating sirens that keycard
doors make when they’re kept
open too long. Somehow I don’t
think those of us who go to Cham-
bers to study will be very thrilled
about that. In the dorms that noise
really doesn’t matter, but inCham-
bers it will only serve as a source
of frustration to the students who
seek solitude there.

There seem to be two major
concerns that have been used to
justify why keycards are needed
on Chambers: Student safety and

yet it is the powers-that-be’s opin-
ion that keycards will better insure
student safety. But why bother if
such measures are unnecessary?
Haven’t most female students been
offered courses in self defense?
Hasn’t the college already spent
money to add more exterior lights
at night? And can’t most students
studying in Chambers lock the
doors of the classroom that they’ re
in? It is the opinion of the campus
police that keycards on Chambers
are needed to take a “proactive”
rather than "retro-active” stance
on student safety, but if nobody
has been harmed, injured, or other-
wise assaulted in Chambers after
hours since it was built, why are
these actions needed now? It

Safety or Tradition?

doesn’t make sense to destroy the
last remaining symbol of what all
of Davidson used to be purely for
the sake of security. Which is more
important to the students here—
tradition or safety? You can’t de-
cide because the decision has al-
ready been made for you.

Another justification for the
installation of keycards was the
protection of college property,
mainly the 24- hour computer labs
there. It would seem a better idea
to me to put up keycard accesses
on these areas only rather than lock
up the entire building. You don’t
have to contain an entire building
just to protect a part of it. There are
a variety of alternative solutions
that could protect both the students
and the equipment. More police
officers , surveillance cameras, and
more lighting are the firstthat come
to my mind.

It breaks my heart that to the
next generation of Davidsonians
the idea of an unlocked, 24- hour
classroom building will be all but a
forgotten memory of the past. It
appears that safety and security
problems seem to have finally made
their impact here. While the ad-
ministration and the campus po-
lice see keyeards as the most cost
effective solution it is nottradition.

Siig
GROEN ING ©

HEY, WHAT HAPPENED
TO Your INSPIRATIONAL

PLAQUE?

ae

te.)

Qein30BS LU WA 9 b'IG) HYNAMS 539M VIS IY JbbI-E-S

Write for Opinions. Call Nina or Kristen at x2148

