THE DAVIDSONIAN

Diane Reston Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler.

Entertainment Weekly

By Becky LATANICH
& KARINA KHOovurRI
Guest Writers

As refined, artsy films seem
to be the common trend this early
fall season, First Wives Club thank-
fully broke the monotony with a
refreshing, comical twist on a po-
tentially mundane topic - husbands
leaving their wives for younger
women.

After a week of nothing other
than homework, we were infinitely
glad that First Wives Club was not
the depressing portrayal of three
neglected middle-aged women
(Goldie Hawn, Bette Midler, Diane
Keaton,) but rather a light-hearted,
liberating story of rekindled friend-

ship. Reunited at a friend’s funeral
some twenty years after their col-
lege graduation, these three friends
discover that each of their mar-
riages has gone to pieces. They
now strive to creatively rebuild
their lives through less than con-
ventional methods.

Written to accommodate the
acting talents of Hawn, Midler,
and Keaton, First Wives Club pro-
vided some good, although unorigi-

_nal laughs.

The supporting cast, notably
Bronson Pinchot (as the saucy in-
terior decorator,) Ivana Trump (as
herself,) Maggie Smith (as Midler’s
wealthy confidant,) Elizabeth Ber-

‘keley and Sarah Jessica Parker (as

Hawn and Midler’s respective ri-

First Wives club.

vals,) lent a creative spark to the
predictable humor.

At times, the movie bordered
onludicrous, and othertimes overly
sentimental. Butin retrospect, these
seemingly melodramatic scenes
were necessary to add a dimension
of reality and to differentiate it
from the slapstick comedy charac-
teristic of Billy Madison and
Tommy Boy.

Overall, First Wives Club is
entertaining and nice to look at.
But, if you are looking to spend
$4.25 at the movies next weekend,
your money would probably be
better spent checking out Hugh
Grant and Gene Hackman in Ex-
treme Measures. Save this one for
video.

Agents of Good Roots

Infamous band rivets bones‘ and saturates souls’ op

By Kate GREENE
Concert Reviewer

Agents of Good Roots, anin-
famous band among Davidson stu-
dents, graced the musical cosmos
with two local shows recently, on
campus: during Homecoming at
SAE and last Thursday at Jack
Straws in Charlotte. Both shows
musically riveted everyone’s
bones, saturating souls, heads and
auras..

The four person ensemble
hails from Richmond, VA. - An-

. drew Winn, the classy lead singer,
guitarist and pianist, claims that
their sound derives from its
economy, with only four band
members, in contrast with their
expansive sound. The members,
especially Winn, have studied the
theories of counterpoint and have
been influenced by jazz and the
soul of Stevie Wonder. Driving
the stair-stepping harmonics and
theoretical counterpoint, is a
danceable, exploratory beat, wild
saxophone and Winn’s scratchy,
bassy vocals.

Saturday’s show at SAE paled
in comparison to Thursday’s Jack
Straws performanges-The band
took the stage next to the mixing
station for the Homecoming bar.
It was also the soundman’s birth-
day, which created more distrac-
tions, Despite the foggy atmo-
sphere of both the band and the
crowd, classics such as “Straight”
drew everyone out of the mist.
The beat satisfied everyone’s need

fora dancing tune. The saxophone '

highlighted the melodic line and
the vocals provided an auditory
enigma for only the keen to deci-
pher. Hazy or not, Agents of Good
Roots were there to play music.
The band’s passion also domi-
nated the show at Jack Straw’s
Thursday evening, despite the di-
verging interests of the notorious
out-of-college, young, yuppie
crowd. Just watching the facial
emotion-ridden expressions of
Winn was entertainment enough.
While playing, Winn is overcome
with little, laughing music demons
in-his inner body that he releases
and flings at the crowd visually
and musically. His facial expres-
sions are minute mirrorings of the
musical lines, but the passion is
now expressed in all facial wrinkles

imaginable. At times, the laugh-

ing inner-agents did get the better
of Winn producing a laughing hy-
ena face.

The word “fling” took on a
special connotation during this
performance. The drummer, Brian
Jones, played cow bells and cym-

bals with equal abandon. Elbows

and drumsticks were flung every-
where. Winn flung his vocals,
which rolled off his tongue and
hung in the air with abandon equal
to that of the motions of Jones: His
body also flung — an arm here, a
foot there — when the music spir-
its engulfed him. It was evencatch-
ing for the audience; eventually,
everyone was flinging a hand, sub-
tly dancing in place to the lilting
rhythms of Jones’ drums and J. C.
Kuhi’s saxophone overtones.

“One Strange Land,” intro-
duced by Winn as a folk song,
alternated between Winn’s husky
vocals and Stewart Myers’ and
Jones’ catchy Top 40 sounding
chorus. Captain’s voices and castle
secrets planted themselves in the
minds of listeners leaving all with
a music-infested spirit. Perhaps a
folk song is still the universally
speaking song.

“Turtle Dove” was a more
musically varied tune. Sparkling
guitar framed puzzling lyrics; saxo-
phone and bass did make the audi-
ence fly into swinging dancing.
Repeated notes built up the phras-
ing. The stair-stepping harmonics
finished out the side thoughts and
introduced the solo musical explo-
rations. This song set the pattern
for most of those to follow.

Significant exceptions were
two covers, one by Dylan and an-
other by Dire Straights. Interest-
ingly, Winn surrendered his raspy
vocals at their moment of appro-
priateness to bassist, Myers. The
Dire Straights rendition fit the
band’s desire to include “old songs
with soul” into their original reper-
toire.

Those who didattend the show
may be puzzled about how Winn’s
raspy, hushed vocals can be distin-
guished. The’answer is ear plugs.
Yes, those bizarre looking foam
things that stick ungainly out from
the ears. Not only do they protect
hearing, but they filter out un-
wanted noise and reverberation that
even Winn’s vocals can be heard.

Did Dylan’s fans wear ear plugs? -

ARTS & LIVING ODA OCTOBER 71986 11

Combo Latino Band spices up the 900 Room 10 p.m.
William C. Kirby, History Department Chair at Harvard
University, will be lecturing on “Sino-American Relations
since the Qing Dynasty” in Chambers Gallery 7:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java jump starts your week inthe Outpost 8 p.m.

- 12:30 a.m.

Coffeehouse gives you the incentive to wake up in the 900
Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

Panel Discussion on “Colliding Perspectives: Communi-
cating About Human Rights and the Taiwan Issue” will be
led by Dr. Shelley Rigger, assistant professor of political
science, in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m. - 5:30 p.m.

Irish Storytellers will entertain you in the 900 Room 7
p.m. - 8 p.m.

Panel Discussion on “A Chinese Perspective on Issues in
Sino-American Relations” will take place in Chambers
Gallery 7:30 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java is still jumping in the Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30
a.m.

Twenty - One Year Old Night is where all the cool

upperclassmen will be 900 Room 10:30 p,m. - 12:30 a.m.

Blood Drive in the Union 9 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sino-US relations” in Chambers Gallery 4 p.m.

dress focusing on “Managing US-China Relations
Peiesietiens-1:80 p.m.

Rese. eS

Pepe te hot tihiene (OC are: an

Panel Discussion on “Economic and Strategic Issues in

Ambassador Chas W. Freeman will give a closing ad-
” in Cham-/

SE Ea late 35 so cis la Mca

Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m. - ou 30
p.m.

Walden Horn Trio performs chamber music in Love
Auditorium 8 p.m. $8 student admission

:
5
2

Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.” -

Fall Break begins at 4:30 p.m.!

Coffeehouse serves fresh coffee and doughnuts in the 900

SATURDAY & SUNDAY
FALL BREAK!!!

Exhale

from page 10

Erika Rissing demonstrated her impressive lung capacity as she
continued to create beautiful sounds with her French Horn while turning
really red in the face. It is impossible to tell that she is a the only junior
of the five. Despite being plagued by illness, Erika simply shrugged it
off and showed us that fine musicians are tough as well as talented.

The final member of the group, trombonist Ethan McCutchen,
showed us that even though he is a composer by divine nature, he can roll
right along with the best performers on campus. Ethan also faces
personal danger every time he takes the stage, in that bizarre older
women tend follow him around and compare him to Jesus. We thank
Ethan for taking the stage regardless of the constant harassment from his

fans.

If you have friends who perform, you should be there to support and
cherish them in their shining moment. If you make excuses (like too
much work), you fail to be a loyal friend. “That is the ultimate F at
Davidson. Loyalty above all except honor. Support your friends, and

Davidson will bloom for you.
