THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, APRIL 1, 1996 7

Che PMabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors, Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
JOHN COPENHAVER JAMES BERRY CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
Asst. Arts & Living Editor Photography Editor
Associate Editor MARY TOWLES ALLISON JOSH GLAZER
TERESA WHITE .
Sports Editor _ Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW. BEN GRIFFIN
CATHERINE ANDERSON BONNER MEAD

Assistant Sports Editor
Assistant News Editors MICHAEL KRUSE

Circulation Manager
NARESH NAGELLA

CHLOE BROOKE
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL » Copy Editor
CARRIE BLACKBURN Web Page Manager
Opinions Editor SUSAN RUGGIERO BRAD CHASE
KATIE McKELVIE JILL WILLIAMS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You Can Lead a Horse to Water,
But You Can’t Make Him Drink

The Bavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Voices.

In the tiny Davidsonian office, a newspaper published by our predecessors in
1970 hangs on the wall.

The headline reads: Campus erupts in protest over Cambodia, Kent State. An
article near the bottom of the yellowed page, entitledMake policy in streets, not smoke
filled rooms details the encouragements of visiting speaker Nobel Prize Winner and
Harvard Professor George Wald:

“American people must express what they want. No charismatic figure is needed.
We can formulate and deal with things ssshipialedascila iad you want. Say: it
“Lowids! And keep’on saying it.’” Be intyité

Wald spoke during the Vietnam era. At that point, students all over the nation
erupted in violent protest regularly, struggling to make their voice heard. They may
have believed they were changing the world — beginning an era where smoke-filled
rooms would be invaded by strong, healthy voices of youthful reason.

They may have begun an era, but today, 25 years later, we have slipped back into
an age of moderation. This can mostly be attributed to the lack of major issues (such
as a war) to be debated, but it might also be attributed to a general lack of youthful
passion alive in college students today.

Generally, Davidson students fit this passive mold. However, as the rooms, of
Chambers have become a little smokier, the streets have become a bit more crowded.

Have you noticed it?

It all started with Christina Hoff Sommers. She riled students about women’s
issues. And, of course, students have béen concerned about the minors debate. Over
600 students have expressed an interest in them and wear ribbons to show their support.
The whole keg issue has students talking constantly, as well.

Why are people so incensed? Why are people talking about issues?

Because they mean something to us.

But do we really have a voice? Is what we want known? Are sub-c ommittees and
sub-committees of sub-committees simply for show, or will anyone reallylisten to what
we have to say?

Hopefully we do. Hopefully it is. Hopefully they are. Powerlessness is a very
frustrating, demeaning feeling.

Students are not the only side of any issue — we know our voice is not the only one.
We should all work as acommunity to make a decision. Let’s hope that the system gives
us all an equal voice - a real voice; not just a token voice — to all sides.

1970 is not 1996. Students will most likely not hold a sit-in for minors or a freedom
march against a BYOB policy.

But we speak out, and will continue to speak out. ‘Although we may not all want
the exact same things, we will work together to decide what we do want. We will say
it loud. And we will keep on saying it.

Please, take advantage of our newfound passion.

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday ane the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box

219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

LETTERS

Congratulations on cherishing learning

To the Editors:

I enjoyed the energetic
student and faculty response
to Christina Hoff Sommers’s
address in Love Auditorium
on March 19. Sommers had
mentioned to Jenny Reinoehl
and me during our interview
of her that sometimes fac-
ulty members at other
schools discouraged their
students from attending her
lectures. She implied that her
material was too threaten-
ing. I responded “Oh, no.
That's not true here. Several
of us read your book, dis-
cussed it together outside of
class, and we have encour-
aged others to listen to what
you have to say.” I con-

‘|sciously stressed the infini-

tive “to listen,” for I see lis-
tening as crucial in any in-
tellectual exchange. But
questioning is also impor-
tant, and I was gratified by
the tone and the content of

the questions the audience
asked Sommers.

The audience took
Sommers seriously. They
listened while she arbitrarily
divided the feminist move-
ment into a nasty struggle
(sometimes even a “war” of
“betrayal”) between “gender
feminists” and “equity femi-
nists,” battling for the imagi-
“nations and resources of con-
temporary Americans, par-
ticularly students. They
heard her paste simplistic
labels on complex problems
(e.g. “phoney statistics,”
“gender propaganda,”
“victimology,” “political
correctness,” “sleeping with

the enemy”). The audience —

then’ responded’ by asking

Sommers toclarifyherterms.

and support her claims with
specific evidence. I found
that response both respect-
ful and intelligent.
Although I do not be-

lieve that Sommers sees her-
self as an “ideologue” (an-
other of those terms she
smears on others) or as view-
ing reality through any lens
but the “truth,” her speech
did presenta particular point
of view, not any “univer-
sally accepted truth.” Thus,
I enjoyed hearing students
and faculty actively chal-
lenge Sommers to define her
terms, to explain and sup-
port her “traditional” phi-
losophy classroom was just
what she encountered in the
audience’s critical analysis
of her argument. I was sur-
prised to learn later that _
Sommers found that audi-
ence “hostile,” for what I

: ‘observed | Ba Pays Zuigeon

people ac' vely
learning! What a ecuret

Sincerely,
Elizabeth Mills
Professor of English

Five reasons to support minors

To the Editors:

The following is the pro-
posal for the institution of
minors at Davidson that
comes before the faculty on
Tuesday, April 2, 1996. It
appears in the format that
will be used in the 1996-
1997 catalogue should the
minors proposal be ap-
proved.

Some departments at
Davidson College offer mi-
nors. A minor is a set of five

| or six courses designated by

a participating department
and approved by the Fac-
ulty, including at least one
course at the 300-level or
above.

Students are allowed to
declare one, and only one,
minor to the appropriate aca-
demic department by nolater
than October 1 of their se-
nior year. Departmentchairs
or minor advisors will rec-
ommend the minor for certi-
fication by the Registrar be-
fore commencement.
Students declaring a
minor may notalso declare a
concentration or a second
major. Courses counted toa
minor may not be counted

toward a major. Students

must maintain a minimum
2.0 cumulative grade point
average to pursue a minor,
and must achieve a: mini-
mum 2.0 average on all
courses counted toward a
minor.

In the spring of 2001,
the Educational Policy Com-
mittee will review the edu-
cational merit of minors and
reportits findings to the Fac-
ulty.

Before the April 2nd
faculty vote on minors, the
Council on Academic Af-
fairs would like to address
the issue of minors in five
brief statements:

The Effects of Minors
on Concentrations. We also
believe that minors and con-
centrations meet different
needs. While concentra-
tions are beneficial for stu-
dents who havea developed,
multi-disciplinary interest,
we feel that some students
need a more broad based
option within a single disci-
pline.

Students accepted to
Davidson are well-rounded
and have many diverse in-

~ terests. Students should have

the opportunity to pursue

these interests, such as those
in the fine arts, without com-
promising their choice for a
major.

Minors and the Era!
Arts Tradition at Davidson.
As students, we chose
Davidson because of its lib-
eral arts curriculum. We
believe that minors will
supplement the core curricu-
lum requirements by encour-
aging students to do more
than take random 100-level
classes. Minors will offer
structure to develop general
interests within a particular
discipline.

Minors are Optional. If
the faculty passes minors,
each department will decide
whether to offer them. De-
partments will also deter-
mine the structure of the
minor, including the com-
ponent courses and the pro-
cedure for declaring a mi-
nor. This would allow de-
partments to tailor minors
according to their wishes.
We feel that it is unfortunate
that should minors fail, de-
partments that would like to
offer them will be unable to
do so.

See Minor on page 9
