THE DAVIDSONIAN ARTS & LIVIN

Palatable Pleasures
Recipes for people with |
two metal plates in their head

(Tip #1: stay away from microwaves)

CoMPILED BY TERESA WHITE Martha Montello, current visiting Davidson professor

Associate Editor from Harvard Medical School, will be speaking on “Choos-
. ee . $. rature” ‘.

We know that all the fans of Palatable Pleasures are wondering what has happened to their favorite columnist and le ay si seeder Ext

our favorite cook. Jeffery Cromartie has run into a little trouble lately, and hasn’t felt quite up to slaving over the stove moe

or spouting off his usual insights into McCall’s cookbook. So in honor of our overly medicated cea tami amas i The ; ag F

Davidsonian staff has come ees to produce this collection of easy, microwaveless recipes: ‘| Jumpin’ Java provides you with an outlet to study,
converse, soe ink hee cckine tortie OUpOne ee -

From the Sports Editors:  VanCamp’s fish sticks. Follow box directions. Best crunchy. Just like Mom makes. 12:30am.

From Arts Editor: Kraft Cheese and Macaroni — it’s the cheesiest. Follow box directions. Helpful hint: do

the mixing in the pot you used for boiling. Then eat out of the same pot, and you [fj Coffeehouse gets your morning started in the 900 Room

only have one thing to clean! 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

From the Opinions Editor: Hire a cook. Bone Marrow Drive allows you to help save lives in the

From the News Editors: OceanSpray cranberry sauce — just in time for the holidays! Open and invert can.: Watch Peer ea ee

| it slide out ... plop. Revel in the sound. Jane Goodall, world renowned anthropologist, will speak
From the Cartoonist: Beer-basted hot dogs. Soak hot dogs in beer while you (and friends, we hope) finish the {gi Love Auditorium 7:30 p.m.
rest of the six-pack. Don’t drink the beer used to soak the dogs. You'll need it
later. While roasting hot dogs on grillor campfire, occasionally pourthebeeryou {§ Jumpin’ Java means good coffee and conversation inthe
saved from the soaking over the dogs. Be careful not to put out the fire. Outpost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
Roast to taste. Best with more beer.

Twenty-one Year Old Night is where you can find

From Mary Clare’s kitchen: Pasta. Buy bag of pasta. Put water in large pot. Watch water bubble. Put pasta in water. upperclassmen in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m

Wait a few minutes. Throw pasta (one piece) against wall, and if sticks, then
“remove pot from stove — it’s ready. If it doesn’t, it’s not. Wait a few more

minutes and throw more pasta. If venting stress, throw at friend. Bone god Drive will continue in the Morrison Room 11
a.m. - 2 p.m.
From John’s kitchen: Curd and cuke sandwich— an original. Do you dare? You need two pieces of sourdough a
bread, a cup and a half of lowfat cottage cheese, a tablespoon of light «The Other Hand” will discuss the See conception
mayonnaise, a fourth cup of fresh chives, and a fresh cucumber. Chop the chives ‘ “Christianity stifles personal freedom in the Morrison Roomm
into little pieces. Blend, blend, blend the mayo, cheese, and chives until 3 p.m. ;
spreadable. Spread evenly on bread. Slice cucumbers and lay on cheese spread. Reve acre
Best cut inito fourths; Strange Snow, a Stephen Metcalf play, will be directed by

Professor Alex Pinkston and will be performed in the Black Box
From Teresa, who doesn’t have a kitchen: Wine and ice cream. Red wine, chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream, a Theatre 7:30 p.m. $4 student admission.
personal favorite. Eat and drink, or pour wine on top. It’s all good.

Dead Man Walking will be showing in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.

Lidk MO. 4OLiuee ty Cuvioy LAs 1 yee da obermertiaeomr

Crop Lunch serves you in the 900 Room 11:30 a.m.-
1:30 p.m.

Jane Mead, poet in residence at Wake Forest University,
will have a poetry reading in the Outpost at 7 p.m.

Sarah Burns, Professor of Fine Arts at Indiana Univer-
sity, will speak on “Being Big:Winslow Homer and the
American Business Spirit” in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.

Strange Snow will be performed again in the Black Box
Theatre 7:30 p.m.

AVCSAUN HL

a fa Na
Die iG Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will perform

their Fall Concert in Love Auditorium 8 p.m.

Coffeehouse gets your Friday off to a good start in the 900
Room 8:15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m.

F.A.C. Pub will take place in the 900 Room 4:30 p.m. - 8
p.m. ©

; 3 000/ 160 Strange Snow will be showing again in the Black Box
$ @@ Theatre 7:30 p.m.

Dead Man Walking will show again in the 900 Room 8

Mac OS| oe) oe

Compatible Strange Snow will give you another chance to be cultured
\ JY in the Black Box Theatre 7:30 p.m.

Saturday Night Live entertains you in the 900 Room 8

"160 MHz PowerPC Keyboard & Mouse pam. - midnight.
1.2 GB Hard Drive 16 Mb RAM .
28.8 FaxModem 14" Monitor

8X CD-ROM $1500 of Software
’ Free Internet Connect Fee . Strange Snow will perform for the last time in the Black

*with Stu ; it/ ty ID Box Theatre 2 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java equals that much needed Pre-Thanksgiv-
ing Break caffeine boost in the Oupost 8 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.

