THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 12, 1996

13

Spelunking the music underground

By James BERRY
Arts & Living Editor

After a long and frustrating
haul through Charlotte, my friends
and I finally found the elusive Best
Western that housed our final des-
tination. AsifIdon’tspend enough
money on recorded music already,
from CD clubs to tantalizing sales
at Best Buy, I sat excitedly in the
back seat with mid-morning burger
in hand to check out my first CD &
music show. Those of you who
feed only off of radio hits and find
your appetites satisfied by the bor-
ing mass recordings that fill the
shelves of ordinary music stores
shouldn’t waste your time at such
gatherings. But anyone who has
ever listened to an artist and found
themselves involuntarily uttering,
“T want more” to the stereo’s con-
trol panel might want to keep read-
ing. Amountain of pleasures awaits
you.

Catching only a breath of the
70 degree weather in between the
car and the hotel lobby, we quickly
made our way to a crowded con-
ference room where the treasure
trove lay in wait. I parted fairly

easily with the three dollar admis-

sion before entering. I was quickly.

swallowed up by the circle of tables
covered in merchandise and let the
patrons’ movements carry me over
the floor before stopping for my
first perusal.

Behind each of the tables sat a
character not easily described. I
felt a little like I was caught in the
Mos Eisley cantina on Tatooine as
my eyes passed over a variety of
styles including the “retired dead
head” and the “I have nothing in
life but music, please don’t mind
my nerdy clothes.” These dealers,
I slowly discovered, came from all
over the southeast and some be-
yond that. They came with one
purpose in mind: to share the mu-
sic of the ages (from the age of
vinyl to the digital period) and to
make gobs of money doing it.

See, a great part of the music
for sale was in the form of boot-
legs. If you’ve ever wondered
about that guy at the concert who
never got into the music and kept
looking under his jacket, this might
serve as an answer. He was check-
ing the digital tape recorder stowed
lovingly in his armpit and getting a

copy of the performance. Granted
some bootleggers finda way to the
mixing board and come out with
an almost perfect copy, but the
concept is the same. Since artists
never see a cent of the money, the
practice is outlawed in the U.S. but
foreign imports are fine and dandy.
So bootleg companies get their
tape, duplicate it in Italy and sell it
in the US for lots of dough. An
average concert costs about 25
dollars and while some stores find
a place on their shelves for im-
ports, their selection doesn’t even
come close to what I saw in this
room.

In addition to concert CDs,
the vendors at the CD show had B-
side compilations, rare limited edi-
tion CDs, promotional CDs, re-
corded interviews, records, post-
ers, comic books (don’t ask me
how that relates), as well as a
plethora of your run-of-the-mill
newandusedCDs. Whether you’ re
looking for a deal or that scarcely
heard song by Moon Unit and the
Eliminators, this is the place you
have to go. If you don’t find what
you’re looking for, you'll find
something else.

White Zom

By RupDoLpH BEILER
& JAcoB ABRAHAM
Staff Writers

Our concert correspondent
Rudy Beiler recently had the plea-
sure of seeing White Zombie per-
form at the Charlotte Hornets
Training Facility in Fort Mill, S.C.
Here’s what he had to say after the
show,

So, Rudy, what was the band like?
Hrnh, hrnh. There was this, like,
evil-looking dude in a black hat.
His name was, like, Rob Zombie
or something. He had a really cool
beard. The bassist chick was, like,

RARE

bie wakes the dead

By Dorcas AND MADGE
Consulting Astrologists

Aquarius (January 20- February 18)— Yo-ho-ho, Aquarians! The
stars point to a sea voyage in the near future. While exploring the
pelagic depths, be mindful of scurvy. Aargh! Love Day:
Saturday. Love site: a sea-going vessel.

Pisces (February 19- March 20)— Spawn, you Valentine! Cupid went
fishing and he caught you. Do not try to go up the river, just go
with the flow. Love Day: Wednesday. Love site: Lake Norman.

Aries (March 21- April 19)— Chinese food will bring you good
fortune this week. Steer clear of the Egg Foo Young, though.
Erogenous zone: palate. Love day: Thursday. Love Site: Lotus
28.

Taurus (April 20-May 20)— The delphic fumes of Richardson Plaza
reveal an eternal truth to you. Frequent it, you cannot receive it,
if you are not there. Love Day: Saturday. Erogenous zone: pinky
toe.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— Be fearless. This is your week to make
daring fashion statements. Try experimenting with astral projec
tion. Conditions are prime.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)—Smile, crabby! Your life will only
become better in the coming week. On Valentine’s Day your
most secret desire will come true. Love day: Everyday. Love site:
Everywhere.

Leo (July 23-August 22)—Beware, Lion. Your roar falls on deaf ears
this week. Wax philosophical; it will impress the opposite sex.
Love Day: Sunday. Love site: Elm Row.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)—Beware of uncomfortable social
situations. Watch out for falling rocks. Bridge freezes before
road. The best things come to those who wait. A stitch in time
saves nine, Distance lends enchantment to the view. Love Day:
Monday.

Libra (September 23-October 22)—Weigh your options carefully

this week. Measure out your time solicitously so that there is time

for work and play. Avoid the noid. You know what we mean.

Love day: Friday. Erogenous zone: ear lobes.

Scorpio (October 23- November 21)—Watch it, you heartbreaker,

you! Cupid has pierced you with one too many arrows. It is time

to decide on one or the other. Play fair. Love day: Tuesday (a.m.)

and Thursday (p.m.). :

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)—Look for consistency in

your life, shape-shifter! . You cannot be protean:alhof:your life: *:;

With Saturn’s alignment with Mars, you should be able to expect

good luck in your studies. Love Day: Monday. Love Site: Energy

Explorium (Exit 28).

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Explore your love of nature
this week. Take a roll or two in the dirt. Mind the chiggers. A
hearty hike in woods is just what you need in preparation for the

_ physical demands of Valentine’s Day. Love Day: Wednesday.
Love site: the great outdoors. :

For entertainment purposes only. HOTLINE 1-900-896-8591

hot and stuff. She had hair that was THE Crossword
real big. The other guitarist dude
didn’t really fit in. He would, like, ACROSS Caan Fe FN se 7 18 9 TO Jit [12 ]i13
jump around and fling his hair. I Hcl i a 15 16
guess that was pretty cool, though. Beavis and Butthead fans unite! one 7 7) 19
Right. Um, didyou getgoodseats? Ibetthecrowdwasprettyinterest- heads, hrnh hrnh. The falling ae braght Be 5 ee
Like, [wentupclosetothefrontof ing. people made some really cool + reetadiaey xt =
the arena, like, to the third row, My friend and I met some really _ noises, like thud. Like, near the He Peskin — = mo at 132
which was pretty cool. The only cool fat people. They were, like, end of the show, I, like, got kicked ‘ee uc, - s
part that really s—ked about that beatinguplittleSatan-worshipping in the head. That s—ked. 20 False belief = = 77
was that, like, everybody wanted kids. People were, like; crowd I see. What was your favorite 2 rata = a a
to be where I was, so they were, surfing and stuffalloverthe place. thing about the show? e Ones. ae a — #
like, pushing me and stuff. When the people were crowd surf- Like, just before the band started 26 Pertaining to Mt -
[SPRING ing, the other people would, like, playing, there was lots of FIRE! 26 fonats == - —
accidentally drop them on their FIRE! FIRE! FIRE! Se ol ts <_ -
\] ; football i
BREAK GET READY FOR SPRING BREAK || irr" . d
RUISE 37 Liable ;
ag UI | NEW TAN RATES 38 sige a © 1505 Tine Maca Series, Inc.
& : 39 — out (ge'
7 Days & 15 Meals! It's better in $4.00 PER SESSION as ns 7 Laurel or Kenton
. 41 Vertabrae 8 Tut ANSWERS :
the Bahamas! 42 Legendary 9 Singty = WeaIsTalsSINAISTSTi
] i : creature peregrina 107
CANE 22! 10 sessions for $33.00 6 See Tee 8, eae {zlota hata et emsttietn
7 Nights! Air, Hotel, & Parties! : 4g Pickle flavoring 12 Racedistance ETT SST Iwlolofil uml ule
JAMAICA $459! 15 sessions for $43.00 47 Nonsense! 19 Goaste isola
is . ts 1ulo
Ni ir, Hotel, & Parties! 20 sessions for $50.00 1 Competiions 3° Omi Warname {sla[wlolelillslol (ulmi al]
ights! Air, Hotel, ee Haas 56 Criminal 26 Hardwareitem [vw] 1 [2 a|wiolul dBm OIN) Lhe
PANAMA CITY $119 Monthly Unlimited for $49.00 . 58 Wingike parts 27 | 2loluiaimulvfelaislulelal2
7 Nights! Room with Kitchen vu 60 Poinless oo ek rg Sm || Lolo
Near the Bars! oy : 62 Young person bag ho aes alilt lef ajolv|1jommalviola
FLORIDA FROM $159! || & %_ _Located at the Chair Factory St Ammaives tome AULA ato aistotaty
*Cocoa Beach *Key West 20700 N. Main St., Comcelius own 34 Lacy edge a s cL
*Daytona! site Sourniag ti (704) 892-7030 i “ar, sepia 3") 52 Bickhom
1-800-678-6386 Sculptured Nails ¢ French Manicures * Pedicures ‘ae 23 The Wizard ol 48 Bacebal poy 54 Percoives,
on pi mpass
ttp:\\wwwspringbreaktravel.com TREAT YOURSELF TODAY! Buse

