THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, MARCH 18, 1996 3

Rosetta, Douglas Durrant, Nathan Raley, Chris Bagley, ahd Easy have fun
together at the Eamus House in Harlem.

Josh Glazer

Twelve students spend
spring break working
with homeless in Harlem

By CATHERINE ANDERSON
& NARESH NAGELLA
News and Asst. News Editors

One group of students did not
opt for the comforts of beaches or
their homes during spring break.
Instead, they spent a week with the
homeless.

Twelve Davidson students, led
by freshman Chad Wellmon, spent
the week at Emaus House in the
heart of Harlem, New York. The
shelter is a half-way house that

' functions as a recovery program
for those suffering from drugs, al-
coholism, and homelessness. Resi-
dents must be motivated to stay
sober in order to participate, which
includes working for the institu-
tion and receiving a weekly sti-
pend. .

“It was a really neat experi-
ence to live with people who were
homeless and hear their experi-
ences,” says freshman Catherine
O’Dell, who helped fix up a house
owned by the Emaus House.

The students, led by the resi-
dents, helped make meals and dis-
tribute clothing as well.

“It was one of the most eye-
opening experiences I’ ve everhad.
It taught me to view homelessness

in a new light, and to see how ~

willing these people are to trans-
form their lives,” says freshman
Kelly Westbrook. “It made me see
myself in a whole new light.”
Wellmon ‘states, “It was
interersting to see the world froma
minority's point of view. [Being
one of the few white people] in
Harlem, a policeman even asked

me what I was doing there.”
Wellmon also got a better pic-
ture of the type of people who fall
on hard times.
He says, “It is important to
note that these were middle class
people who were very intelligent,

eloquent, and good chess piven ;

to boot.”

Westbrook spent much of her ©

time with drug addicts who were
trying to beat their problems.

“It was great to actually hold
conversations with them and actu-

ally hear about their thoughts and

emotions. It made me realize that
people should talk about their feel-
ings more,” she says.

Wellmon says it was “An ex-
perience I will never forget and a
great way to find out that poverty is
not always the result of laziness.”

Films, forums and speakers.
planned for Women’s Month

By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

The Women’s Issues Com-
mittee has designed a series of
activities to celebrate Women’s
Month.

Junior Joselyn Schultz,
chairperson of the Women’s Is-
sues Committee, says, “Our goal
for the month is to create more
exposure to women, women’s
ideas, sexuality, and the politics
surrounding feminism today.
This month gets a lot of atten-
tion, and we would like to see
people pay attention to women’s
issues throughout the year.”

The activities include dis-

plays, films, forums, and guest
speakers.
Monday, March 18th, “Why

Men Hit?: A Forum on Male Re- .

sponsibility” will be held at 4 p.m.
in the 900 Room. During the fo-
rum, Laura Warren, the director of
NOVA, will discuss domestic vio-
lence, an issue: which received
much media coverage during the
O. J. Simpson trial but which has
not traditionally received much at-
tention elsewhere.

Tuesday, March 19th, Chris-
tina Hoff Sommers, associate pro-
fessor of philosophy at Clark Uni-
versity and author of the best-sell-
ing book Who Stole Feminism?,
will speak at 7:30 p.m. in Love
Auditorium. Sommers is aconser-

vative feminist who maintains that
feminists today are on the wrong
path and that the last true feminists
were Susan B. Anthony and Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton.

The annual “Take Back the
Night” forum will occur Monday,
March 2Sth at 8 p.m. in the 900
Room. The event features the per-

sonal accounts of survivors ofrape —

and dating violence.

A Women’s Poetry Reading
at Jumpin’ Java Cafe will be held
in the Outpost at 8 p.m. Thursday,
March 28th. Additionally,
Davidson Outdoors is sponsoring
different events for women
throughout the month, and a quilt
exhibit will be in the Union as part
of Women’s History Month.

‘from page 1
Confident in Davidson’s
qualification to offer such a pro-
gram, McMillen adds, “We're a
Southern college so this plays to

our strength. We have lots of fac- .

ulty who teach Southern writing
‘ and history, and many faculty en-

gage in research focusing on the
South.”

In order to receive a concen-
tration, students must take five or
six classes in their designated sub-
‘ject within several different disci-
plines. Pre-requisite to the South-
ern studies concentration, students
must enroll in “The Old South,”

“The New South,” or “Southern
Writers,” in addition to four other
electives.

Professor McMillen hopes stu- .

dents will utilize local historical
sites and museums. In order to
further expand the program, orga-
nizers plan to bring speakers to
campus once a semester.

me OPENLETTER
CCRL: We want to hear what
_ you have to say

To all students:

Last semester the SGA appointed the six of us to serve on the Council o
Campus and Religious Life, essentially an advisory group to the Dean t
Students. In addition to us, the CCRL consists of anumber of faculty members
(Professors Berkey, McCulloh, Peroni, Poland, Shannon, and Tong), twa
students elected recently (Caroline Polster and Matt Rich), SGA Presiden
Warren Buford, Reach Out President Katie Brasfield, PCC President Joh
Cowan, Union Board President Sara Beth Hamlin, and Ecumenical Counci
Representative Jacob Darling. Dean Shandley sits as the chairperson of the
council.
As you probably know, in order to make the massive changes in tha
alcohol policy that were advocated in the Self- -Study, the CCRL will have tq
make a recommendation to President Kuykendall. As active members and
friends of Patterson Court, we already have strong feelings about the need td
preserve the safe and open nature of on-campus social life at Davidson. We
also have our own apprehensions and fears about a keg-free Court.
But what d@ you, the members of the Davidson community, think? Thd
six of us, before we make a decision on the future of Patterson Court, want td
hear your advice. If you have strong feelings about this issueplease contact
us. Call us on the phone. Stop us in Chambers, Baker, the Union, or the Pos
Office. Send us e-mail. We really want to hear what you think and feel abou
this issue, in order that we can make a sound decision that reflects the wishe
of the people on whom it will have an impact.
Nothing is inevitable. We can and will make a difference, but we need
your support. ~
Sincerely,
Bill Buff ‘96
Seth Clippard ‘97
Humes Franklin ‘98

a

Adam Knapp ‘96
Ellen Rockwell ‘99
Peter Varney ‘96

Summer 1996!

Term I: May 16- June 27
Term II: July 1- August 10

JNoOISSasS *

¢ Our summer rate is comparable to
most out-of-state student rates.

eA ae and easy registration process.

¢ Pre-professional courses (pre-med, pre-law, pre-business)
in biolegy, chemistry, physics, political science, history,

Film; Gaines in American Fiction: ‘The Photograph
and Native American History; The Russian Revolutionary
Cinema; Street Children/Working Children; The Brain of the

Robot; and many more.

e Summer housing is in one-bedroom, air-conditioned apartments
(only a five-minute walk to classrooms) with amenities includ-
ing swimming pools and lighted tennis courts, all adjacent to
the Sarah P. Duke Gardens on the Duke campus.

¢ Institute in English Language and U.S. Culture: an inten-
sive four-week, noncredit English program.

For more information or to request a bulletin:
CALL (919).684-2621; FAX (919) 681-8235; or
e-mail summer@acpub.duke.edu
Continuing Education and Summer Session

DUKE UNIVERSITY
's oe
Forn s
Searoop, BBQ & Caterina

Featuring GREAT Seafood, outstanding Ribeye Steaks,
our famous Barbecue and award winning Banana saating
PLUS Much More!

LUNCH HOURS: Friday, 11:30 - 2:00 P.M.
DINNER: Tues. - Sat., 5:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.

18150 Statesville Rd., CORNELIUS

