THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996 7

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Arts & Living Editor
Executive Editors JAMES BERRY Copy Editors
JOHN COPENHAVER CARRIE BLACKBURN
MARY CLARE JALONICK Asst. Arts & Living Editor SUSAN RUGGIERO
MARY TOWLES ALLISON JILL WILLIAMS
Associate Editor
TERESA WHITE Sports Editor Advertising Managers
WILL BRADSHAW BEN GRIFFIN
News Editor BONNER MEAD
_CATHERINE ANDERSON Assistant Sports Editor
: MICHAEL KRUSE Circulation Manager
Assistant News Editors CHLOE BROOKE
NARESH NAGELLA Photography Editor »
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL JOSH GLAZER Cartoonist
GREG GARRISON
Opinions Editor Business Manager
KATIE McKELVIE KATHERINE HASH Web Page Manager
BRAD CHASE

Assistant Business Manager
CAROLINE. BYNUM

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

\99 eats oF TeapMon, / =

MULTIPLE Soca L
OPTIONS, AND ™™
REGONAL PRESTIGE

ARE THREATENED By,..

sees

Mt

SB

AWE ABOLITION
oF OUR

Patterson’s

Complaint

LETTERS

We're pathetic.

It’s Saturday. How could you possibly have so much to read? Three tests this week,
ugh. You really should go hibernate in the library. Your roommate is going to the mall.
Your friends are drinking somewhere off campus. You are beat from last night, maybe
you should just take a nap. : :

From your room, you see non students walking by. Where are they going? Hmm...
That’s right, there’s a basketball game. Wasn’t there a sign somewhere?

You are feeling crazy. So sick of that Davidson rut. Maybe you’ II do something else
for a change. Get rid of that headache — from too much exposure to that all to familiar
psychedelic green carpet or Friday night, you’ re not sure.

You heave your tired body out of your dorm and head towards Baker. You walk past
alums and local fans wearing Davidson gear and walk into Belk Arena. Wow.

People are cheering. Shirtless men with W-I-L-D-C-A-T-S written on their
individual chests jump up and down. Dean Shandley, Dean Terry, and President
Kuykendall all sit together with their families. Professors walk by with their children and
chat with students. Cheerleaders with bright red lipstick, huge bows and beaming smiles
shout their hearts out and are thrown in the air. Little boys with Davidson hats and shirts
run in circles around the perimeter of the arena. The Pines collectively does the wave.

Best of all, you see friends, classmates, fellow Davidson students giving it their al
down on the court. : :

You walk down into the student section, surprised at how small it is.

You don’t know that much about basketball, but the game is still exciting. Davidson
soon manages to turn the game to their advantage. Two minutes left, we’re up by two
points. Inthe last seconds, that guy in your Organic Chem class dunks the ball and gives
Davidson another win.

The crowd goes wild. :

But who is in that crowd? ;

In Saturday’s Charlotte Observer, William P. Bray, ‘89, wrote a letter to the
“Your Voice” column in the Sports Section as “a challenge to all Davidson alumni
in the Charlotte area.”

He writes, “We are in the midst of our greatest basketball season since our last
Southern Conference tournament championship in the ‘85-’ 86 campaign ... The problem
is, you wouldn’t notice it from the crowds turning out at Belk Arena for our games ...
Remember Johnston Gym? Let’s get at it and pack our new home for today’s game
against Marshall, and show the few students who bother to show up what it was like when
Wildcats’ games were an event on campus.” :

How embarrassing. ;

Well, Saturday, students did turn out for one of the most exciting games Davidson
has had in a long time.

Sadly, though, it was an exception. ‘

Not that there isn’t a large contingent who can call themselves the faithful, that there
isn’t a vocal and extremely supportive minority who attend every game and cheer loud
enough for the whole student body — there is and they do.

_ But why shouldn’t games still be an “event on campus?”

Basketball doesn’t have any more home games, but Davidson has many more sports
to offer.

Go see a baseball game.

Go see a tennis match.

Go watch lacrosse.

The spirit of teamwork must move beyond the limits of the team members and coach,
For any team to be wholly successful, it needs the complete and unfailing support — the
unfailing enthusiasm — of the student body.

The Pavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students
of Davidson College. Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box

219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. Our offices are
located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed in letters
to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of Whe Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are available
upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Minor concerns

To the Editors:

In your recent edition
dedicated to exploring the
topic of academic minors, I
read with interest the com-
ments in which the Careers
Office and I were credited
with supporting the desire
of students at Davidson to
minor in a discipline as well
as major in another.

While it isin fact true
that the staff and I promote
acquiring unique and diverse
experiences as acomplement
to academic achievement, a
concern [have raised repeat-
edly about minors at
Davidson is the demand
which will be placed upon
the student who elects botha
major and a minor. By de-
mand I mean that students
will be required to demon-
strate a measurable signifi-
cant acquisition of knowl-
edge in any curricular de-
sign which carries the stamp
of approval “Minor in ...” I
venture to say to students
that minor does not mean a
few courses randomly cho-
sen within a discipline but
suggests a past, present, and

cipline requiring possibly as
much reading, writing, and
synthesis as is demanded in
a major.

For that reason, I have

future orientation to the dis-"

oneach occasion when asked
about minors and getting
jobs, discussed my concern
and suggested that the con-
centration options at
Davidson are a unique and
possibly preferable way of
getting a significant other
academic experience for a
resume.

- My admiration for the
far-sightedness of concen-
trations comes from the col-
laboration of departments
—Philosophy, Religion, So-
ciology, Anthropology, Bi-

ology, Math, Economics, ©

Art, History, Languages, Po-
litical Science — and from
the experiential, practical
training or research compo-
nent of most concentrations
—Medical Humanities, Eth-
nic Studies, International
Studies, Gender Studies,
Neuroscience Concentra-
tion, and Applied Mathemat-
ics Concentration.

’ Employers routinely
praise the Davidson resume,
pointing to the liberal arts

curriculum as extremely

valid for work in today’s
marketplace.

They attribute initial in-
terest in a candidate to the
diversity of experiences
which support the impres-
sive academic studies. Re-
search experiences, intern-

ships, practicums, and sum-
merjobs balanced with dem-
onstrated campus leadership
are the telling factors to re-

‘ cruiters who look for poten-

tial and preparation in gradu-
ating seniors.

Whether Davidson fac-
ulty elect to offer minors, or
whether Davidson students
choose to add a minor to
their academic studies is a
complex issue in which both
voices need to be heard. The
Careers Office hopes to be
seen as an advocate for stu-

dents both on campus and
offcampus. = =”

If minors are approved,
we will work to promote mi-
nors as an additional indica-
tion of the dedication and
determination of Davidson
students to go beyond the
ordinary and reach for ever
increasing challenges. If
minors are not approved, we
will advocate for the con-
centrations as well as any
other component of the
Davidson experience which
makes our graduates out-
standing and highly quali-
fied to take on the rigors of
the marketplace.

Sincerely,

Carol Walker Jordan
Director, Career
Services

Keep Chambers clean

To the editors:

The Chambers Building
is open all night for students
to study. Last year, in re-
sponse to student request,
the number of rooms avail-
able for 24-hour study was
expanded to better meet stu-
dent need.

We would like to re-
mind you of the responsi-
bilities associated with the
privilege of 24-hour study
in Chambers. |

Students must leave the
study space as they find it.
Building Services staff clean

classrooms every afternoon.

By 8:30 a.m., many class-
rooms are too filthy forclass-
room use. Classes have ar-
rived to find trash including
papers, drinks, pizza boxes,
smeared food, magazines,
even used condoms clutter-
ing the classroom.

Effective immediately,
we ask that you not eat pizza
in Chambers study rooms.
Please pick up after your-
selves, putting trash in the
trash cans, straightening
classroom furniture, and
erasing boards if you use
them.

Remember that Cham-

bers is left open to provide
study space. Other more
social uses are not appropri-
ate.

We know that you sin-
cerely want the use of Cham-
bers for extended hours to
study. Please help us make
this possible. It is a privi-
lege that Davidson students

- can maintain only by respon-

sible use of the facility.

Sincerely,

Polly W. Griffin,
Registrar _

Thomas C, Shandley,
Dean of Students
