THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, APRIL 15, 1996 15

WILDCAT ROUNDUP

In preparation for next
week’s Southern Conference
Championships, women’s track
traveled to Duke this past week-
end fora high profile meet which
included some potential Olym-
pians.

Venessa Sims tied her own
school record in the high jump
(5’ 6’’) taking 6th. Jamilah Saw-
yer continued to better her 100

grabbing 12th place, while the
4x100 relay team of Sawyer,
Sims, Laura Burkholder, and
Roxie Formey earned 12th
(50.52, school record).

The distance medley relay

Burkholder, Marie Grisez, and
Suzy Burr, ran the second fastest
time in school history (12:43.88).

“I’m very happy. with this
meet. We have a good shot of
placing a decent amountof people
at conference,” coach Beth
Puckett said.

Burr, the Southern Confer-
ence Newcomer of the Year for
Cross Country, has been side-
lined with a hip injury for most of
the track season, but she ran at
Duke this weekend and is ex-
pected to run at conference.

-Will Bradshaw

hurdles school record (14.69),|

|team of Kate Feldmeier,|

The Davidson golf team is
having one of its best spring sea-
sons in recent memory.

The Wildcats opened at the
Charleston Southern Invitational
on Feb. 26 and 27, where they
finished eighth out of nineteen.
Then at the Citadel Invitational
on Mar. 14 and 15, they placed
fifth in a field of fifteen.

The Wildcats were last of
five teams at the Mercer Invita-
tional on Apr. 1 and 2, but re-
bounded to fifth of nineteen at
Campbell College’s Lonnie D.
Small Invitational on Apr. 7
through 9.

Jason Lina has been the top
Wildcat this spring. He placed
fourth at Mercer, and fifth in the
Small Invitational, shooting a
four over par 76-70-74, the best
tournament score for a Davidson
golfer in recent years. °

“The team came together
and played really well this spring,
especially in the last tournament,
and we feel well prepared for the
Southern Conference Champi-
onships (held at Stony Creek
outside Greensboro today and
tomorrow),” said Lina.

Dan Tedrick, Jason Carlock,
Andy McDaniel, Jason Lina, and
David Alexander will play at
Stony Creek.

-Clayton Schloss

Mexico/Carribean $189 RT, Europe $169
OW, & Domestic Destinations Cheap!
IF YOU CAN BEAT THESE PRICES
START YOUR OWN DAMN AIRLINE
Air-Tech, Ltd. 212/219-7000
info@aerotech.com
http://campus.net/aerotech

placed third in the 200-meter.

coach Gary Andrew.

- Dan Dearing

Men’s Track

Coming off a strong performance at Wake Forest on Apr. 6 and
then at Duke this past weekend, the team has high hopes for the
conference championships this weekend in Johnson City, Tenn.

Led by Eugene Jung, Wildcat field events performers surprised
the competition with high marks in Winston-Salem. Jung won the shot
put and placed third in discus. Dan Dearing’s personal best javelin
throw of 164’ 10” was good enough for second, while Steve Hsieh also

At Duke, ina field of over 60 teams, including Team Nike, Reebok
Enclave, and some of the top college teams in the country, the Wildcats
turned in their best performances of the year.

“Tt was fantastic. We are peaking at the right time. Things are
going well and we are in a good position going into conference,” said

Hsieh ran personal records in both the 100 and the 200 (22.91, the
first sub-23 second time in recent history) The 4x100 relay (Hsieh,
Carlos Bowen, John Leslie, and Mike Albert) and 4x400 (Leslie,
Dearing, Hsieh and Albert) turned in season bests.Josh Cookson made
the top ten performance list in the 5,000 (15:24.3).

After splitting their matches
in the last two weeks, the men’s
tennis team now looks toward
this weekend’s conference tour-
nament in Greenville, SC.

Bolstered by a clutch per-
formance from doubles tandem
Judson Sutherland and Theodore
Kaplan, the Wildcats upset the
College of Charleston, 3-2 on
Apr. 6 at the Wake Forest Invita-
tional, arguably their biggest win
of the season.

“We had to raise our level of
play when we realized the match
was onthe line,” said Sutherland.

Assistant coach Bryce Plott
was extremely pleased with his
team’s effort. :

“Tt was one of the most im-
pressive efforts I have seen in my
time here at Davidson,” he said.

Davidson fell to the host De-
mon Deacons though, and lost at
UNC-Charlotte on Thursday.

Bill Mitchem and Scott
Tonidandael is today.

-Tyler Epp

The final home match for} :

The Women’s Lacrosse
team extended their winning
streak to four this weekend, beat-
ing Longwood, 17-11, on Satur-
day and Mt. St. Mary’s 12-8 on
Sunday at Virginia Tech. The
team also enjoyed a 15-12 vic-
tory Apr. 6 at Monmouth and a
14-12 win Apr., 9 at American.

After a 1-4 start, the Wild-
cats now stand at 5-4. The young
squad continues to improve. Jun-
iors Alison Rhodes, Rebecca
MacLean, and Sarah Hogan lead
the Wildcats, while freshman
Linda Rothemund and Amanda
Fleck continue to impress. The
fine play of first year goalie Tab
Combs’ has also been key to
Davidson’s recent success ac-
cording to coach Mary Schwartz.

Players are enthusiastic
about the team’s current win-
ning streak ,

“We’ve come a long way -
we really feel like we’ve im-
proved and we are as confident
as ever,” says Amanda Fleck.

-Dan Motz

Trio leads charge
to conference meet

By CLayTon ScHLoss & MICHAEL KRUSE
Staff Writer & Assistant Sports Editor

The Southern Conference Outdoor Championships will take place
next weekend at ETSU, where Venessa Sims, Danielle Mall, and
Jamilah Sawyer will be keys to the Wildcats’ success.

“We have basically individual goals (for conference),” women's
track coach Beth Puckett said.

She hopes that Mall will defend her conference title in discus, and
says that Sawyer and Sims should isc in the 100 hurdles and high
jump, respectively.

Sims and Sawyer also compete in the 4x 100 and 4x400 relays, two

.teams Puckett would like to see place in the top six next weekend.

However, Sawyer’s goals stretch beyond those of her coach.

“T want the 4x 100 team to get under 50 seconds (its present best is
50.52),” Sawyer said.

In addition, she wants to better 14.6 in the 100 hurdles, in which she
is presently seeded third.

Sims also has some individual goals in mind, oak to clear 5’8”’
in the high jump and set a new school record in the process.

“I have always enjoyed track the most because it is more oriented
toward individual achievement. You not only have to compete against
the other teams but also against yourself,” Sims said.

The terrific trio is not outspoken about their exploits, but prefers to
lead by example. And for most of this year, their example has done pleaty
of talking.

Sims was the only Davidson athlete, male or female, to score at the
Southern Conference Indoor Championships in February, placing third
in high jump despite spending the first semester in the Davidson in
Philadelphia program.

A junior from Decatur, Georgia, Sims played baseball, soccer, and
basketball as a youngster.

“Venessa is a great kid. She has a great work ethic, which really paid
off in. the indoor SCC’s, and she should do even better in the spring
(championships),” said coach Beth Puckett.

Mall, who stayed busy through the winter as a key reserve on the
women’s basketball team, has managed to score in several meets,
winning one, since. re-joining the team after, the; enti ‘basketball
tournament.

Hailing from Long Grove, Illionois, she has been inivalwed in track
since sixth grade, when she competed in the high jump and shot put. She
took up the discus in ninth grade, and last year she captured the Southern
Conference discus championship and qualified for Junior Nationals.

“T had a lot of fun last year, and making it into the Junior Nationals
was incredible. I want to end the season on a good note and defend my
Southern Conference title in the discus, but there is some tough compe-
tition out there this year,” said Mall.

Sawyer, just a freshman and already an impact performer in volley-
ball as well as track, has set school records in the hurdles for: four
consecutive weeks.

She came here from Erie, Pennsylvania, where she played softball
and volleyball: She began running track and cross country in ninth grade.

“Jamilah is an extremely talented athlete with lots of potential. We
hope she can finish in the top three in the hurdles at the outdoor SCC’s,”
said Puckett.

PreSession

First Five-Week
Summer Ten-Week
Teacher Institutes
Second Five-Week
Special Institutes and Residential Courses

We

THE U

May 6-17

‘Summer Nights 5
UNC Charlotte Uptown

Call 704/547-2424 today or return the
coupon by mail or fax to: Office of Continuing
Education, Extension and Summer Programs,

City Blvd.,
Charlotte, NC 28223-0001 Fax: 704/547-3158

UNC Charlotte, 9201 University

NIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA AT CHARLOTTE

May 20-June 25
May 20-August 6
June 12-July 2
June 27—August 6

Please send me a free summer schedule

Name:

Address:

City:

An EOE/Affirmative Action Institution

