ue THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS BRIEFS

Only Two to go: Fourth Martin Court building named

Rybum, Hart, Flowe, and now Jamieson. A short ceremony was held
early this month, conferring an official name upon one Martin Court’s three
previously unnamed apartment buildings.

Jamieson is so named in recognition of an unrestricted gift to Davidson
College given recently by insurance business executive Ronald Jamieson,
class of 1945.

— Campus Chronicle, April 1996

Let the festivities begin: SGA Day is April 18

It’s that time of year again, and SGA plans to continue its traditional
SGA celebration on the Union Patio. From the hours of 11 a.m.-2 p.m. this
Thursday April 18. Students are invited to stop by for a campus-wide
cookout.

And more fun: ice cream social this Thursday evening

The F-Crew and the SGA will sponsor an ice cream social on the patio
behind the Commons this Thursday, April 18, from 5 p.m.-7 p.m. Laurie
deVegter, in charge of F-Crew on the Union Board, says that two student
bands will play and a serve-yourself ice cream bar with toppings will be
available.

deVegter encourages everyong to “come out back, get ice cream, hang
out for a couple of hours, and enjoy the weather.”

Earth Day events to include campus-wide cookout April 22

In celebration of Earth Day, an array of activities are planned for next
Monday, April 22. Stephanie Morgan, Bio Society President, says that a
campus-wide cookout will be held on the Union Patio from 11 a.m.-4 p.m.
Hamburgers, hotdogs, and: veggieburgers will be served, and all students,
faculty and staff are invited.

In addition, several off-campus groups such as the Sierra Club and the
National Wildlife Federation will sponsor booths and activies. Several
Patterson Court houses will offer activities as well. T-shirts will be sold by
the Bio Society and the Recycling Committee will sell mugs. A letter-
writing campaign will be sponsored by the Environmental Action Commit-
tee. sm hce gfe . 4 ods te tei dA oe ee oe a se oe ee roe ae

., At 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room, an environmental literature reading will
be held. Anyone interested in reading or just listening is invited.

Morgan says the purpose of Davidson’s Earth Day celebration is “‘to
raise environmental awareness on the campus ... about problems in the area,
problems nationally, and problems internationally.” ,

Guatemalan human rights advocate and massacre survivor to speak

Carlos Chen, a 40 year old Guatemalan Maya and survivor of a 1982
massacre in that country, will speak on “Living Beyond the Massacres: Our
Struggle For Change in Guatemala” Tuesday, April 23 at 7 p.m. in the
Morrison Room of the Union; :

A former teacher and community leader, Chen lost a pregnant wife and
two children in the 1982 massacre. After years in hiding, Chen has resumed
leadership as a human rights advocate. Funded by the US, Chen is gathering
testimony from survivors of the massacres in order to create written
historical record of their experiences. In addition, his group is involved in
exhuming mass graves of massacre victims to provide burial in cemeteries.

Chen’s presentation, sponsored by the Dean Rusk Program and the
Spanish Department, will be given in Spanish with English translations by
Matt Pacenza, a human rights and peace worker in Guatemala. :

Attention all Davidson Males!!!!

The Uptown Charlotte Men’s Shelter is in dire need of all your old
clothes, especially shoes! Please raid your closets and see if you can help
us out. A labelled box will be placed in each dorm lounge and the contents
will be picked up at the end of each week. Flyers about this clothes drive can
be found oneach hall. If you need any additional information, please contact
Ann Hatfield and Audrey Edmundson at
-6629 or Sezmin Noorani at -6088.

Union Cafe open all summer

The summer survey indicated that an average of 175 customers would come
to either morning break or lunch each day: This response has been
encouraging enough to. warrant a trail run of the cafe during the summer
months. The continued operation of the cafe during the summer will be
contingent on the amount of business. The cafe will be open beginning May
21 at 9:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday.

Senatorship: a stone’s throw away

_If you are interested in being an SGA senator for the rising junior class call
Lucian Dervan at -6072.

Assume the position

Sign-ups for student positions on faculty committees will be on a table in the
Chambers Lobby Moriday to Wednesday. Call -2147 with questions.

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 15,1996

SGA, Honor Council hold elections

Rising juniors one short for SGA

By KirsTen RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Although this year’s Honor
Council and SGA Senatorial elec-
tions included two days of runoffs,
not all positions have officially
been filled. One Junior Senate seat
remains vacant.

- Freshman John Bell; Elections
Chair, says that while “I was rela-
tively happy with the voter turnout
[in this year’s class three elec-
tions]... I was disappointed by the
fact that only two rising juniors ran
for the Senate.”

Open elections will likely be
held before the SGA within the
next two weeks to fill the remain-
ing junior senatorial position.
Those interested in becoming can-
didates for the position should con-
tact SGA Chancellor Adam
Hickey. 3

Bell says that he is “happy
with the number who ran for honor
council,” and adds that “I thought
the election went really smoothly.”

Results of the April 2, Class 3 elections:

Asexpected, the fresh-
man class boasted greatest
voter turnout; approxi-
mately 75% of freshmen
voted in Monday’s elec-
tions.

According to Bell,
changes will likely be made
in the future to make the
election process smoother
and “more interesting to the
student body.”

SGA Vice President
Clair Freeman says, “it is
disappointing that there
wasn't more interest shown]
for this important position.
We hope to fill the position}
before the end of the year
because students deserve
quality representation.”

The SGA will hold a
leadership training event in}
conjunction with working
on the Wildcat Habitat
house on April 28th and}
hope to have a complete
senate by then.

Rising Sophomore Senators
Ann Harriott Fisher- President
Michael Albert

Jonathan Sipling

Rising Junior Senators
Lucian Dervan- President
Eric Sapp

Rising Senior Senators
Saad Gul- President
Sarah Terry

Jon Hutzley

Rising Sophomore Honor Council
Asa Hercules

Austin Rios

Chad Wellmon

Rising Junior Honor Council
Wesley Hart

Deepa Kamath

Regina Marranzini

Rising Senior Honor Council
Chris Currie

Elizabeth DuBose

Michael Hart

Hall Counselors, Residence |
Life Staff finalized for 1996-97

By KirsTeEN RECKNAGEL
Assistant News Editor

Next year’s RLO staff is at
finally complete, after the last
minute shuffling and rearranging
of positions which is necessary
every year.

Kurt Holmes, Director of Resi-
dence Life, says that final rear-
rangements must be made due to
the fact that a number of students
who apply to be RLO staff turn

down the positions to which they-

are appointed.

Holmes says that the number
of students who declined this year
was about the annual norm and
that the “vast majority [of students
who declined] have decided to go
abroad.”

Residence Life staff consists
of hall counselors, who live on
freshman halls, and residence.ad-
visors, who are housed with upper-

Sophomore Staff: Junior Hall Counselors: Susan Plummer (HC)
Janet Aardema Amy Biber (HC) Carlo Reynolds (HC)
Christina Biedermann Jean Boehlmer (HC) Emily Richards (HC)

Paul Dryden Michelle Bougdanos (HC) Billy Roberts (HC)
Caroline Hubbell Jesse Burk (HC) Taylor Roy (HC)
Jenny Nolan Mary Margaret Jeremy Rusin (HC)
Jamilah Sawyer Cochrane (HC) Jennifer Sanborn (HC)
Jeff Coker (HC) Jeff Seebach (HC)

Junior Staff: Doug Cutting (HC) Kate Stevens (HC)
Eric Borgstrom Jacob Darling (HC) Heather Sweeey (HC)
Rachel Cokrill Cooper Dean (HC) Dom Talvacchio (HC)
Damon Colbert Katie Finch (HC) Erica Thomas (HC)
Ryan Conatser Tripp Franklin (HC) Tyrone Wade (HC)
Anne Ford Ben Griffin (HC) Andrew Wiser (HC)
John Grady Daniel Guill (HC)

Charlotte Hildebrand James Hawk (HC) Senior Staff

Matt Hobbie John Hawk (HC) Bridgette Diani
Margaret Lumpkin Turner Herbert (HC) Lauren Ellis

Carrie Morris Jeffery Hwang (HC) Allison Goode

Hallie Pitkin Amy Jones (HC) Kristen Kidd

Kate Pittenger Amy Kanoff (HC) Jason Schmidt

Jose RuizJose Ruiz David Maddux (HC) Tom Vanderbloemen
Tommy Wheeler Lindsay Maney (HC) Brian Woodward
Jennifer Williams Katie Nelson (HC) Jason Wright
classmen.

“The contract and our expec-
tations are the same for the two

radical difference is the popula-
tions they work with.”

~

~Ay

AHHHH _

6 ore

: Josh Glazer
The Annual Health Fair hosted by the Student Health Center, " Just for the health of it”

met beautiful weather. Students crowded the tables, which held information about
everything from how to quit smoking to new kinds of birth control.

positions,” Holmes explains. “The

