4

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 23,1996

Sophomores ride for MS

By Kirsten RECKNAGEL
News Editor

Recently, sophomores Kerry
Brophy and Ann Flinn left Ben &
Jerry’s with more than dessert.

By the time the two Davidson
Outdoors leaders had finished their
Cherry Garcia, they had stumbled
upon a opportunity too great to pass
up: Brophy and Flinn were deter-
mined to take on “The 150 Multiple
Sclerosis Tour” held last weekend.

“We were in Ben & Jerry’s and
saw a poster for [The 150 MS Tour]
and we thought, ‘that sounds like a

‘bikes and ride ...

challenge’,” Flinn explains.

Created to raise money for
the Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Soci-
ety, “The Tour” actually consists
of 160 miles of biking — from
Columbia, S.C. to Myrtle Beach.

Participants solicit pledges
from friends, family, or perfect
strangers. Then they hop on their
160 miles over
the course of two days.

About 1500 riders ranging in
age from 8 to 83 years took to
backroads, Main Streets, and oc-
casionally stretches of majorhigh-
ways to raise money for the MS

Society last weekend.

After riding all day Saturday,
the tour stopped in Florence, S.C.
where participants slept in a high
school gymnasium or stayed in
local hotels.

Jim Smith, an MS Society of-
ficial, says Brophy and Flinn were
“probably the only couple of col-
lege students in the ride.” Each
raised about $150 through their
efforts.

“We didn’t train for [the bike-
athon],” Flinn says. “The last 20
miles each day were pretty bad. It
was hard, but do-able.”

Students worry about the “BTI advantage”

from page |

Berry used her father’s credit
card to order a combination refrig-
erator/freezer/ microwave for her
Cannon triple over the summer.
When she showed up during orien-
tation to pick it up, “they had no
record of meatall,” she says. “And
they didn’t have any left.”

When Berry called Univer-
sity Programs to inquire about her
order, the operator “didn’t have
my name in the computer,” even
though Berry had given her her
father’s name, credit card number
and expiration date over the phone
weeks earlier. “She had every-
thing she needed to use [my father’s
credit card],” she says.

Finally, once a manager was
able to fill Berry’s order with an
unclaimed unit, she was told it
wouldn’t be possible to receive a
discount off the $210 annual rental
fee, even though five weeks of the
semester had already gone by. The
operator with whom Berry spoke
said that ““There’s nothing we can
do about it.”

Rather than passively accept
a corporate mandate, sophomore
Shannon Howland took action last
year when she found long-dis-
tance service BTI’s rates toohigh.
Now, Howland says, “I use a
Sprint car

Howland doesn’t understand
why Davidson doesn’t try a ser-
vice she cites used at Maryland

universities, which taps into the
best rate possible at the time a
student calls. “The phone industry
is SO competitive...” she says. “Tt
doesn’t seem as though Davidson

couldn’tfind a betterrate. Itseems ~

to me that this is a prime market-
place... I don’t know why they
can’t find other retailers.”

“I don’t know if
Davidson’s responsibility to say
‘OK, let’s do a cost analysis,’ or
anything... [but] they have a moral
obligation to make sure BTI has a
good plan,” Yet, Howland says,
“To acertain extent, you have to be
a smart consumer,” and Davidson
students who are perhaps too trust-
ing “should not take everything at
face value.”

it’s.

sy

"Ap

i

ay Hey arYou WILDCAT Fans!!

(Students, Faculty, Alumni)

the

WILDCATS want YOU!

We are looking for musicians and other talented
persons interested in forming the

WILDCAT —
PEP-BAND

You will be guaranteed:
1. The best seats in the house

2. Band Shirt

3. All expense paid trip to
Southern Conference Tournament

4. PE Team Credit

For more info call:

a

we

“\
$

Alec-2781 or Jeanette -2378

@~

PROFILE

Shelley Rigger

Political Science Professor

By DANIELLE MILEs
Staff Writer

While Professor Shelley Rigger
was trying to find a way to Taiwan to
witness the Taiwanese national elec-
tions last spring, a golden opportunity
arose in the form of an invitation from
the Joan Shorenstein Institute for Press,
Politics, and Policy at the John F.
Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

The invitation, which sparked from Rigger’s graduate studies
at Harvard and was extended by director Marvin Kalb (whose
daughter Judy Kalb is currently teaching Russian at Davidson),
came attached to an assignment: to study the liberalization of the
mass media in Taiwan. ;

The Joan Shorenstein Institute was “interested in finding out
how lifting [media] restrictions affects politics in Taiwan.” Unfor-
tunately, on her spring trip Rigger soon discovered, ‘The whole
island was just crazy over this election.”

If the Taiwanese were less than interested in talking about

liberaliza-

tion of the

VISITING press," they

were eager

JOURNALIST to talk to

Rigger and

(ee: y Ms. Shelley Rigger : =] rita hus-

[= * Davidson College . J ae 8 in
ps av

AR AR ILM : 03/31/85 ean a

TK mM HM reporter for

Government Information Office the Char-

lotte Ob-

server. From March 14 to March 25, 1996, Rigger “spent each day
chasing candidates” — sometimes across the country.

She recalls one day when she and a reporter friend from Hong -
Kong joined forces (combining his journalism skills and her flu-
ency in Mandarin Chinese) to track down Mr. Peng Ming-min, a
presidential candidate from the Democratic Progressive Party
(DPP). They traveled across the country to witness one of Peng’s
campaign parades, arriving just in time to see a parade disappearing
down the street. The two flagged down what they though to be a
campaign van, hoping tocatch up to the fast disapearing motorcade.
The van’s friendly driver drove Rigger and her friend around the
city for two hours, only to discover that the parade they were
chasing was not Mr. Peng’s parade at all, but that of another
politician campaigning for the National Assembly.

They then learned that their volunteer chauffeur was not even
on Peng’s campaign staff, but was an ordinary citizen who volun-
tarily missed work because of his strong dedication to Peng’s
ideals. He explained his position in this way: “The least I can do is
to help the foreign reporters get the story.”

He drove Rigger to the DPP’s campaign headquarters, where
she interviewed with Peng’s campaign manager, who then offered
to drive her to the headquarters of the incumbent president, Lee
Teng-hui.

On March 24, the election day, Rigger traveled to different
polling spots, including the China Evangelical Seminary, which
coincidentally turned out to be the home of the parents of a
Davidson senior, Thomas Wang. She watched as the votes were
counted to re-elect President Lee by a 54% majority, even in a four

way race.

Rigger commented that before she left for Taiwan in March she
was warned that the situation could be dangerous. Arriving in
Taiwan, however, Rigger was assured that the Chinese scare threats
were more effective on outsiders than on the Taiwanese. “Some-
times nothing happens,” she explains, expressing the truth that the

Taiwanese were counting on.

Perhaps that aura of danger prompted the remarkable amount
of interest in her trip, both from students and faculty at Davidson,
and elsewhere, including Charlotte, Washington, D.C., and Colum-
bia, SC. In the first month folowing her return, Rigger did seven
different lectures about her trip. As she explains: “For the first time
people were really interested in that election.”

Enter The Davidsonian photo contest.
Submit to our office by Sept. 30

News tip? — 2148

