~— The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc, Arts & Living Editor Business Manager

JOHN COPENHAVER JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
. Sports Editors Cartoonist
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW GREG GARRISON
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE
Advertising Managers
News Editors Photo Editor BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA MEREDITH LUCIUS
RANDY HARTWELL
: ; Copy Editors Circulation Manager
Opinions Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN McNEIL CARSWELL
NINA BLOUNT DANIEL MOTZ
KRISTEN RICHARDSON Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
Arts & Living Editor BRAD CHASE
SUSAN RUGGIERO ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

MONDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1996 7

HEY, YA. het HE oe
fi
( R MA ne ORY The

ELIDED THAT

(or Ar Ha" THEYSADME REPECSENTS THE OLD.
WAY OBSOLESCENCE BEANO We FieyT AGAWSTY™

Se THEY
KERNS Hlone Dour
77 Kus KEWGLE App
GE HISWwIKE A
MOE Puwevt
Rot. Thus, They
BECAME..4°

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

In defense of Mrs. Claus

The twelve days of
Christmas (at Davidson)

On the first day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the second day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, two hours of sleep
and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the third day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, three take home tests
two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree. :

On the fourth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, four ten page papers
three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the fifth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me, five Pak-is-tanis
four ten page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a
Christmas tree.

On the sixth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me six angry women
five Pak-is-tanis, four ten page papers, three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a
condom in a.Christmas tree.

On the seventh day of Christmas, my true love gave to me seven damaged disks
six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis four ten page papers, three take home tests, two hours
of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the eighth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me eight maids a milking
seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis four ten page papers, three take
home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas tree.

On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me nine layer dip
eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis four ten
page papers three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a Condom in a Christmas tree.

On the ninth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me nine Davidsonian T-Shirts
(sittingintheofficepleasebuyonetheymakeagreatgift)

nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-
is-tanis four ten page papers three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in
a Christmas tree.

On the eleventh day of Christmas, my true love gave to me eleven pots 0’ coffee

ten Davidsonian T-Shirts (sittingintheofficepleasebuyonetheymakeagreatgift),

nine layer dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-
is-tanis four ten page papers three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in
a Christmas tree.

On the twelfth day of Christmas, my true love gave to me eleven pots o’ coffee, ten
Davidsonian T-Shirts (sittingintheofficepleasebuyonetheymakeagreatgift), nine layer
dip, eight maids a milking, seven damaged disks, six angry women, five Pak-is-tanis four
ten page papers three take home tests, two hours of sleep, and a condom in a Christmas
tree.

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The’
Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149,
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of Whe Davidsonian, Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College. :

To the Editors:
Anticipating that there
will be some letters and
opinions articles in this
week’s Davidsonian, we feel
that it would be prudent to

| write a letter explaining the
'| last-minute decision to have

Mrs. Claus throw condoms
from the roof of Chambers
during the campus Christ-
mas party last Tuesday.
We have already heard
complaints from some small
factions of the campus (but
many thanks to the many
more who have been sup-

portive) about the subject of
condoms at a Christmas

party. As most of the cam-
pus hopefully already
knows, last week was AIDS
Awareness week. It was in
the spirit of this event that
the decision was made to
throw the condoms. While
some may argue that talk of

| AIDS is not “in the Christ-

mas spirit” or “appropriate”
ata Christmas party, we have
to disagree. Every 15 min-
utes an American dies of
AIDS. 90% of new HIV
cases are contracted through
heterosexual sex. By age
21, one in four Americans
will require treatment for
sexually transmitted dis-

eases. There are few, if any,
things more important than
helping to save someone’s
life, no matter what Holiday
season it is.

As forthe comment that
“everyone already knows to
use condoms,” unfortunately
even Davidson students are
having unprotected sex.
AIDS is a frightening real-
ity, and it can happen to any-
one, including Davidson stu-
dents, whether it’s through
unprotected sex, blood trans-
fusions, drug needles, etc.
Even if no one at the Christ-

mas party acquires HIV,
they will” at” some” point

know someone who does.
Shouldn’t education, aware-
ness, and prevention of alife-
threatening disease be a pri-
ority, whatever the occasion?

We do realize that, un-
expectedly, there were afew
small children in  atten-
dance that night. If this
caused any uncomfortable

_ situations for Davidson par-

ents, then we do apologize.
However, we hope that any
parent would realize that
when they bring asmall child
ontoacollege campus at 9:30
at night, there is a risk that
they will be exposed to “adult
subject matter,” and will

therefore forgive us. We
can assure you that at the
Community Christmas party
this Sunday afternoon in the
Union, the only grown-up
“thing” was Dr. Manning
dressed as the Grinch.

While we are sorry if
some people let this spoil -
the party for them, we be-
lieve that conversations
sparked on campus by this
“controversial” issue have
been valuable.

Sara Beth Hamlin, Union
Board President
Jenny Everett, Co-Curricu-

“Yar Vice President

Sherry Malushizky, Assis-
tant Director for Programs
Brian Campbell, Campus
Forum Chair

Jennie Geada, Cultural
Events Chair

Joselyn Schultz, Women’s
Issues Chair

Laurie DeVegter, F-CREW
Meagan Mitchell, Films
Chair

Dan Mojonnier, Member at
Large

Catherine Ursery, Publicity
Britton Taylor, Social Vice
President

Looking for the
perfect gift?

You just might find it in
The Davidsonian office.
T-shirts, $8.00
(marked down for
Christmas!)

