THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING _ sono, manci25199

11

O'Connor fiddles around

World-class violinist visits Blumenthal Arts Center

By GreG GarRISON
Editorial Cartoonist

There are few artists of our
time that can truly be called vir-
tuosi: This weekend, at the
Blumenthal Performing Arts Cen-
ter, I had the great privilege of
seeing one of them play with the
Charlotte Pops.

Friday night, Mark O’Connor
wowed the audience with a’ two-
and-a-half hour spectacle of foot-
tapping, mind-blowing fiddle play-
ing. His selections ranged from
bluegrass to jazz and from blues to
classical. He slipped from one
style into another with perfect ease
and a grace that elicited thunder-
ous applause, cheers, and multiple
standing ovations from the amazed
audience. His stage presence was
shy and soft-spoken, and his ap-
parent humility impressed me al-
most as much as his playing.

O’Connor was born in Seattle,
Washington on August 5, 1961
and started playing music as achild,
winning his first contest, a classi-

’ cal/flamenco guitar competition at
the University of Washington, at
age ten. He began playing the
fiddle at 11, and within three weeks,
he was playing square dances.
Within seven months, he was win-
ning national fiddle competitions,
and by the time he graduated from
high school, he had won every
major fiddle competition in
America and recorded four albums.

When he was 17, O’Connor
went on tour with Dave Grisman
and Stephane Grappelli, both jazz
giants. He then began a career as a
studio musician, and between 1984
and 1990, he became the most in-
demand violin player in Nashville
and made over 450 recordings with
several artists, including James
Taylor, Paul Simon, Willie Nelson,
Randy Travis, and Chet Atkins.

Mark G'Cannae.

Peter Nash

He has recorded six critically ac-
claimed solo albums on Warner
Brothers.

In 1991, ’92, 93,94, and’95,
the young fiddle master won the
Country Music Association’ s “Mu-
sician of the Year.” He has also
won eight awards from the Acad-
emy of Country Music. In-1992,
he won a Grammy for his New
Nashville Cats album, and since
then he has been nominated for
two other Grammys.

Recently, he was listed in
Esquire’s list of outstanding men
and women under 40 who are
changing America.

After seeing him perform, I
can certainly understand why. His
lightning-fast fingering and emo-
tionally powerful bowing were
complemented well by the Sym-
phony. At one point in the show,

he finished a long solo, and I real-
ized that I had been holding my
breath for at least a minute. His

range and skill worked together _

perfectly to create a sound at once
beautiful and awe-inspiring.
The concert was part of the

Charlotte Symphony Orchestra’s -

Pops series, and there were perfor-
mances on Friday and Saturday.

Tickets ranged from 15 to 50 dol-
lars, but the Symphony has a pro-
gram called the “Student Rush” in
which a student with a valid ID can
come to the box office within an
hour of the show and get any re-
maining ticket in the house for
eight dollars.

For information concerning
future performances of the Sym-
phony, call 332-6136.

College Kitchen

Stuff your face with
stuffed mushrooms

By Jay SHuLtz & Ros Kosicxt

riences in the 900 Room 7 p.m.-11 p.m.

Hodson Hall 8 p.m.-9:30p.m.

Take Back the Night allows victims to share their expe-

Alan Ware gets down to bring up your Monday blues in

Jumpin’ Java perks you up in the Outpost 8 p.m.- 12 a.m.

Coffeehouse makes you feel like you’re in a Folger’s}-

commercial in the 900 Room 8 a.m.- 11 a.m.

Teaching as Performance/Performance as Teaching
with Fern Davye on the teaching methods of the future,
Ask where at the Union Desk. 4 p.m.

Joseph P. Newhouse, Professor of Health Policy and
Management at Harvard, speaks on “Incentives Behind
Healthcare” in Chambers Gallery at 5 p.m.

An Evening With Fern Davye: Contemporary Inter-
national Women’s Poetry Poet Fern Davye makes
poetry a performance art in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-10
p.m.

Junior Class Social — bonding enforced? in the Big
Screen Room 10 p.m.-11 p.m.

Twenty-One Year Old Night relieves all tension and
worry in the 900 Room 10:30 p.m.- 12:30 a.m.

WOSANL

Big Screen Room7 p.m.- 8 p.m.

7th Seal runs in the 900 Room 9:30 p.m.- 11 p.m.

“Women Around the World” share their cultures in the

Crop Lunchis yummy in your tummy in the 900 Room 11
a.m.- 2 p.m.

Allen Buchanan speaks on “Healthcare Economics:
Mangaged Care” in Chambers Gallery 7 p.m.-8:30 p.m.

Poet Micheal Hoffman reads from K.S. in Lakeland and
Corona, Corona in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.-9p.m.

Jumpin’ Java boasts womens’ poetry and lots of other
stuff, too, in the Outpost 8 p.m.- 12 a.m

AVGSINHL

Room 5:30 p.m:- 7 p.m.

Coffee House 9 p.m.

7th Seal shows in the 900 Room 8 p.m.- 10 p.m.

Jumpin’ Java celebrates at the Outposet 2 p.m.-6 pm.

Women’s Issues Potluck peaks your interests in the 900

Tom Eure, Jr. strums some folky rhythms at Cosmic

Chefs-in-Residence Step on a Crack, is a children’s play worth seeing at the
Black Box Theatre at 7:30 p.m.

Today we have decided to provide a recipe for a most delectible appetizer. These stuffed mushrooms are
an excellent start to many of the entrees we have previously provided in our weekly article. They can also serve
as a tasty late night snack. They are very easy to make and you can make enough to pur some in the freezer

for a later date, For this recipe you will need:

Bach Aria Group, the only group in the world that
exclusively studies and performs Bach, flaunts their talent
in DCPC 8 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

ly Loves Me, a German film addressing aging,
death, and AIDS, plays in Perkins Auditorium 1 p.m. - 3
p.m, and costs $2. Maggie McCarthy will lead discussion

2 dozen large mushrooms
1/2 cup soy sauce

1/2 lb. ground beef following the film.

1/4 cup minced green r

2 saplesboona ead Subs : Step on a Crack plays again in the Black Box at 2 p.m.
1 egg yolk

NCAA Playoffs in the 900 Room 9 p.m.- 11:30p.m. Do
you really want to watch them?

I-tblsp. minced onion ~~
1/2 clove garlic, minced
1/4 tsp. salt

1/4 tsp. pepper

Henry Ackerman, ‘64, executive of Associated Press,
reads his poetry and gives the Charles E. Lloyd Award for
Non-Fiction Writing in the 900 Room 7:30 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

_ Josh Glazer
Remove stems from mushrooms and marinade the caps in soy sauce for 1 hour. Finely chop stems and
mix with all remaining ingredients. Drain caps and stuff with meat mixture, mounded high. Brush tops with
soy sauce and broil 8 to 10 minutes. Place any leftovers in the freezer. When hungry, defrost and bake 8 tol0
minutes at 350° F, Until we cook again..,

DC Brass Quintet jams in Hodson Hall 8 p.m.- 9:30 p.m.

