6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

Week in Washington :
Buchanan surge alters GOP race

By Davip SANTSCHI
Washington Week Correspondent

In one of the closest primaries
in New Hampshire history, Re-
publican presidential candidate Pat
Buchanan narrowly surpassed his
rivals, capturing 27% of the vote.

“Wearing the worries of the
Republican mainstream as a badge
of honor,” Buchanan beat Sen. Bob
Dole (R-KS), who received 26%,
and former Tennessee governor
Lamar Alexander, who received
23%. His victory has two major
implications. First, it shows that
his more controversial ideas—rais-
ing tariffs, conducting an isola-
tionist foreign policy, and outlaw-
ing abortion—have the potential
to propel him to the forefront of the
race. Second, it ignites a fierce
competition between Dole and
Alexander over who will be the
mainstream alternative to
Buchanan.

An exuberanf Buchanan ap-
peared on Wednesday at Mount
Rushmore in South Dakota ham-
mering at his standard economic
themes. “The American economy
was designed for the American
workers and the American fami-
lies,’ he said. Buchanan, who
speaks often of the loss of Ameri-
can jobs and an emerging world
government, is conducting a shoe-
string, populist campaign to rally
social conservatives and economi-
cally insecure, working-class vot-
ers.

Buchanan’s rise has alarmed
many mainstream Republicans.
Sen. John McCain (R-AZ) said

that “the campaign has departed
from our basic themes.” He and
others dislike Buchanan’s empha-
sis On social issues and his protec-
tionist trade position. New York
City Mayor Rudolph Guliani said
bluntly, ‘““We’re going to do every-
thing we can to stop Buchanan.”
Moderate Republicans increas-
ingly believe that either Alexander
or Dole must withdraw from the
race to head off Buchanan.

Colin Powell on Wednesday
criticized Buchanan for being too
divisive. “This is not the time for
intolerance. This is the time for
inclusion,” he said. Buchanan has
been accused of making overtly
racist comments in his writings.
Hispanics have deplored his prom-
ise to erect a fence on the US-
Mexico border and halt legal im-
migration for five years. Former
Ku Klux Klan leader David Duke
‘attended a’Buchanan rally in Loui-
siana, and Russian ultranationalist
Viadimir Zirihovsky called
Buchanan “a brother in arms” and
suggested that they work together
to deport Jews.

An embarrassed Dole, who
seemed assured.of the nomination
just weeks ago, must convince his
party that he is the true voice of
mainstream conservatism. Speak-
ing in North Dakota, Dole declared
that he has “returned to the heart-
land of America to fight for the
heart and soul of the Republican
Party.” He painted Buchanan as
“an extremist,” claiming that the
votes Buchanan is drawing are “not
the majority of votes in our party.”
Dole is depending on his strong

organizational structure, his 4 to 1
monetary advantage over his ri-
vals, and endorsements from over
two dozen Republican governors
to boost his campaign. However,
no candidate has won the nomina-
tion without New Hampshire since
1964.

Alexander, who is capitaliz-
ing on the perception that Dole is a
damaged candidate, said that “‘the
Dole campaign is floundering, it’s
on the verge of sinking.” Placing

Dole and Buchanan squarely in-.

side the Washington establishment,
Alexander must convince voters
that only he can defeat President
Clinton. However, Alexander will
have difficulty in competing with
Dole in the 26 states that hold
primaries in the next three weeks.
While his regional ties and style
make him appealing in the South,
Alexander has only $1.2 in cash
and a limited organization.
President Clinton is being
careful to appear dignified and
presidential throughout the primary
season. “I’m not going to get in-
volved in their business,” he said
Wednesday. With $27 million in
reserve for the actual campaign
and no consensus on a Republican
nominee, Clinton can afford to keep
alow profile. The longer the nomi-
nation fight lasts, the more likely
the Republicans will be torn apart

by factions and primary season
rhetoric.

Sources include: February 21, 22,
23 of The New York Times and The
Wall Street Journal.

Global Perspective

Threat of Chinese invasion
looms over Tawain’s first elections

By Eric SApp
Dean Rusk Adjunct Reporter

Taiwan is planning to have
one of its first real democratic elec-
tions next month. With only a
month left, current president Lee
Teng-hui has a substantial lead in
opinion polls. It appears that, bar-
ring a major catastrophe, Taiwan’s
next president will be Teng-hui.
The problem is that there just may
be a major catastrophe.

To understand the possible
problem, one needs to go back to
1949 when the Chinese Commu-
nists overthrew Chiang Kai-shek,
and he and his government fled the
mainland to the island of Taiwan.

The Korean War brought US
interests into Asia, andthe US navy
“persuaded” China to let the break
away republic be (at least for the
time being).

The US continued to recog-
nize the government in Taiwan as
the legitimate Chinese government
for the next 30 years. However, in
1978 the US switched its recogni-
tion of legitimacy to China, and
Taiwan was left with a govern-
ment not recognized by the rest of
the world.

This lack of official recogni-

tion did not sever US-Taiwan ties,

however. The Taiwan Relations
Act, which is still in effect, re-
quires that the US involve itself if
Taiwan is threatened.

This act is not quite as binding.
as it may seem. There is no guar-
antee as to the level of involve-
mentor whether military force will
be used. But there is at least an
official commitment.

Secondly, the US and Taiwan
have built up a very large trading
relationship over the past decade
anahalf, Over that period Taiwan
has amassed a very successful and
lucrative economy. It is the 12th
largest trader on the world market
and has almost as much trade with
the US as China does.

China’s fear is that as Taiwan
becomes more democratic, it will
be more likely to become offi-
cially recognized. China’s posi-
tion as the only legitimate govern-
ment of the Chinese people is very
important to its leaders and mili-
tary.

Taiwan’ s steady movementto-
ward a democracy has caused
China to fear that its unique status
may not last. As a result, it has
officially threatened to launch mis-

‘sile attacks and possibly invade

Taiwan if Teng-hui is re-elected.
Thus far the US has taken no

concrete action. The US policy at
this point appears to be to wait out
the threat and hope that nothing
happens.

Although many people are
arguing that the US should take a
stronger stand, the threat of a Chi-
nese invasion is not overwhelm-
ing. While China does have an
army of 2.9 million (compared to
370,000 in Taiwan), US intelli-
gence reports indicate that China
only has enough vessels to land
20,000 men on the Taiwanese shore
in the case of an invasion.

Also while China has a huge
army, it is in the dark ages techno-
logically. Taiwan on the other
hand has a rather up to date army
and air force.

There is definitely great fear
among some that China might in-
vade Taiwan or begin missile at-
tacks. However, in the event of a
Chinese attack on Taiwan, even if
the US were to stay out of a China-
Taiwan conflict militarily, there is
little doubt that the US and the rest

of the Western world would imple-’

ment harsh economic punishments.

That, coupled with the possi-
bility that China might not even
win the conflict, probably will be
more than enough to keep China’s
threats simply threats.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26, 1996

IRA not ceasing fire
Since the end of the cease fire between the IRA and Great Britain,
which was followed three hours later by a huge bomb explosion in the
Docklands, there have been several additional bombings and bomb
threats. The most notable of these was a bomb that tore apart a double
decker bus in London earlier this week.
— Economist Feb 17

Yelstin to run against Zyuganov
Boris Yeltzin officially announced in candidacy for re-election
this last week. With four months left until the Russian elections in
June, Gennady Zyuganov (the communist leader) is well in the lead.
— Ibid

Farrakhan returns to US

Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan returned from his contro-

versial 18 nation tour of Africa and the Middle East on Friday without.

incident. Although there was speculation that his passport might be

revoked in response to statements he allegedly made regarding terror-

ism and the US, his readmittance into the US was described as
“normal.” ‘

— Observer Feb 11-17

etc.

$50,000 — The Hard Way
Christopher Conley, 14, received a $50,000 settlement from Lifetime’
Products, the manufacturer of a basketball net. Conley, of Nashua,
NH, had sued because his teeth had gotten caught in the net as he went
up for a dunk shot, resulting in the need for massive dental work.
—Chuck Sheperd’s News of the Wierd

At least he’s honest
Bill Becker, whose criminal record spans 30 years of stealing from
wealthy suburbs, will end since a federal judge finally convisted to him|
15 years in prison. Becker was not too upset after the verdict, simply
stating, “I robbed from the rich, kind of like Robin Hood, except I kept
it.”
-Break

Dave on New York
“OK, sure there’s gridlock, sure there’s pollution, sure there’s noise,
but where else can you get.a hot dog for $7?”
. —Newsweek

Viewing democracy a little differently
“Honestly speaking, who the hell knows?
Russian Pop singer Iosif Kobzon asked why he ranin last year’ |
Parliamentary elections
—Newsweek

Censorship at Cornelius Elementary?

Reading the ending of a Judy Blume book with her daughter,
Lyann Oke began to feel very uncomfortable as she skipped ahead
and saw what was to come. Text about foreplay, intercourse and
masturbation were not the kinds of things she wanted her third-
grade daughter to be reading about.

Oke said when she showed the Judy Blume book, Deenie, to
her husband, he couldn’t believe it either.

“I was sick about it,” she told parents, teachers and Cornelius
Elementary School administrators.

The book, which her daughter checked out of the school
library, does not belong on an elementary school library shelf, she
believes.

Oke contacted school officials and is currently going through
the proper steps of challenging a book within the school system.

“T am not a trouble maker,” she told the PTA audience. “The
bottom line is it’s our right as parents to decide when, how and why
our children are going to learn about sex.”

According to Charlotte-Mecklenburg School policy, a chal-
lenged book is taken off the shelves until a time when it is deemed
OK to return it, if at all.

Oke said her position will rest on the fact that schiool policy
promotes abstinence until marriage. The characters in the book
who are exploring sexual avenues in a locker room are‘unmarried.

Many parents present voiced concerns about such sexually
explicit material in an elementary school library.

Oke said she plans to follow through with her complaint until
the book is removed from the school-system.

—Feb. 21 Lake Norman Shopper’s Guide
