4. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19,1996

Hansford Epes and Clark Ross

Professors
travel to

on Malone
fellowship

By ApDAM HIcKEyY

Staff Writer

Professor Hansford Epes says his trip to the Middle East was “a
useful reminder that the West isn’t the world.”

German and Humanities Professor Epes and Economics Chair
Clark Ross both received fellowships from the National Council on
US-Arab Relations to visit Oman and the United Arab Emirates
(UAE) over winter break.

The non-profit organization is devoted to improving relations
between the two regions in part by “telling the Arab side of the story,”
says Ross.

The Council hopes to achieve this by sending professors and other
professionals to hear officials from Middle Eastern countries describe
their own nations’ governments and cultures from the inside.

Ross and Epes received Joseph J. Malone Fellowships by appli-
cation; they paid only $900 of the per person cost. The rest was covered
by the council and the governments, which paid to lodge them in some
of the region’s finest hotels.

‘ For two weeks they and 10 other Malone Fellows traveled
throughout the region, listening, asking questions, and, less often,
visiting the sights.

Despite the obviously political focus of the visit, both Epes and
Ross credit most officials with giving reasonable reports and being

* the feeling we were being told the party line,” but he added, “I suspect

open to questions. There were a few exceptions, however.

“Two [reports] that wound up striking me as propaganda... [were
given by] leaders of a ‘representative assembly,’” said Ross. “They
gave a general overview suggesting it was pretty influential,” but
“didn’t back it up,” which Ross found “very frustrating.”

“More often than not, [the information] we got struck me as more
candid and open,” said Epes. “There were times that I think we all got

if we brought them [here], they would get a gung-ho view of America
as well.” .

Both professors feel the trip will have some impact on their
teaching. “I may try to do a little more [on the Mid-east] in the
Comparative Systems course, or in the labor course,” said Ross.

Epes will use what perspective he gained in the Islamic-History
portion of the Humanities course.

For both, the experience served a more personal than professional
purpose. “I got a little glimpse of a broader view of the world around
2500 B.C.” said Epes.

Those interested in learning more about their experiences are
invited to attepd an open forum sponsored by the Dean Rusk program,
Tuesday, February 20.

Three juniors may donate marrow
Driscoll, Dowd and Smith all await results of testing

By Brooke BAGWELL
Staff Writer

Saving someone’s life — it
sounds dramatic, heroic, and out
of the ordinary. However, three
Davidson students have discov-
ered their potential to preserve life
through the simple process of do-
nating bone marrow.

Juniors Megan Driscoll,
Charlie Smith, and Mary Dowd
are undergoing tests to determine
the possibility of serving as do-

nors. The students were identified °

by the national bone marrow regis-
ter as possible matches after hav-
ing participated in Project Life’s
annual bone marrow drive.

The students were contacted
by the Charlotte Red Cross Center
and asked to give blood, which
would then be tested and typed to
establish compatibility with a
needy patient. Tests concerned
such factors as the presence of
infectious diseases and relative
genetic similarities necessary be-
tween patient and donor blood.

Scottie Lindsay, program co-
ordinator for the bone marrow di-
vision of the Red Cross, describes
the donation of bone marrow as a

very precise method. She says
there are six antigens on the human
white blood cell that must be
matched between patient and do-
nor.'

Driscoll says there are four
levels by which doctors determine
donors. All three Davidson stu-
dents are currently at level three,
which means that the matching has
been narrowed down to four pos-
sible donors.

According to Dowd, doctors
then determine “which blood
matches and is most compatible”
to designate a donor. Family mem-
bers usually provide the closest
matches, but many patients con-
sult the national register to find
adequate donors.

Bone marrow produces white
blood cells to identify and fight
infection. Since a healthy immune
system is contingent on healthy
bone marrow, diseases that attack
bone marrow pose serious health
threats. A process known as the
Rescue Method involves the elimi-

nation of a-patient’s deteriorating

immune system and the receipt of
healthy bone marrow. While the
immune system is still weak, the
patient is sustained on antibiotics

and blood products until his im-
mune system regenerates.

The elimination of the
patient’s immune system, to ready
the individual for the bone marrow
donation, can be especially trying.
Many die of infections contracted
as a result of their weakened im-
mune systems. However, the
chances of survival are 50% once
the donation is complete.

Lindsay describes one unique
aspect of the patient/donor rela-
tionship: patients and donors must
wait a year before their identities
can be revealed. This waiting pe-
riod is required to allow adequate
recuperation on the part of the pa-
tient, who experiences physical and
emotional strain both before and
after the donation. Names and
information concerning the patient
are also withheld from the donor
for one year.

If one of the three Davidson
students is. chosen as a donor, the
procedure would take place at Bap-
tist Hospital in Winston-Salem.
There, donors are put under anes-
thesia and the bone marrow is re-
moved by needle and syringe. No
surgery is required and the donors
are usually released the day of the

donation. The donating process
does not harm the health of the
patient, since the two to five per-
cent of bone marrow extracted will
be stored by remaining healthy
marrow. The only negative side
effects include possible soreness.

Since chances of matching
patients and donors are between
one in 20,000 and one in 1,000,000,
Scottie Lindsay has been especially
pleased and impressed with the
high success rate of Davidson
matches. Six Davidson students
have donated in the past, and now
three more are likely donors. Lind-

say credited Davidson’s bone mar-

row diversification to the college’s
broad geographic representation.
Stressing the magnitude and im-
pact of the .gift of bone marrow,
she says, “We’ ve been so blessed
with Davidson College students.”
Mary Dowd was pleased to be
a participant in the search for a
bone marrow donor. Expressing
her desire to donate and extend
someone else’s life, she says, “You
don’t realize the impact of what

you’re doing [when you register].

You just think how unlikely it is
for a match with so many people. I
really hope I am able to do it.”

Patterson
Court
stickers
affect
independents

By Amy WHITMIRE
Staff Writer

In a year filled with attempts
to formulate an effective policy
covering admission to parties at
Patterson Court, Patterson Court
Council members are faced with
another challenge: low sales of
Patterson Court stickers to inde-
pendents.

Patterson Court Council Sec-
retary Junior Ashley Maner says
that about 50 stickers have been
sold to independents this semester.

Junior Eric Pendergrass, an
independent representative on the
Patterson Court Council, feels that
enforcement of the sticker policy
creates a larger problem than the
purchasing of stickers in order to
attend Patterson Court parties.

He says: “From my experi-
ence, most independents whoregu-
larly go down to the Court have
bought stickers. If we are going to
have a sticker policy, though, we
should enforce it.”

Sophomore Katherine Davis,
the other independent Patterson
Court Council representative,
agrees.

“The low number of stickers
sold to independents indicates that
independents have either decided
that they will not go down to the
Court or that they have decided to
go down tothe Court without stick-
ers,” she says.

“Since the sticker policy was
not strictly enforced last semester,
independents may feel that they
will be able to attend Court parties
without stickers again this semes-
ter.”

Davis also points out that the
sale of Patterson Court stickers
helps pay for enforcement mea-
sures at parties such as the risk
managers and police who attend
each party.

The Patterson Court Council
hopes to find a way to monitor
student’s entrance to parties more
effectively by checking student IDs
at both the front and back doors of
the houses and by looking for a
Patterson Court sticker on each ID.

Independents who wish to at-
tend Patterson Court parties but
have not yet purchased a sticker
may purchase a sticker at either the
Union Ticket Office or the Out-

post.

Take nice pics?
Get credit.
Snap for
The
Davidsonian
Call Josh -6154

