THE DAVIDSONIAN — Be Le ety Be

pi %

se, naga
. -e = + MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1996 7

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

. begat Editors Arts & Living Editor Cartoonist
ENHAVER SUSAN RUGGIERO GREG GARRISON
MARY CLARE JALONICK ; .
Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
Associate Editor JILL WILLIAMS CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
: Sports Editors Advertising Managers
News Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
__ Associate News Editor Photo Editor Circulation Manager
RANDY HARTWELL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
Opinions Editors Copy Editors . Web Page Managers
NINA BLOUNT CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
KRISTEN RICHARDSON JILL WILLIAMS BRAD CHASE
DANIEL MOTZ ERIC PENDERGRASS

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

: “~ yy Koos LATE
Fd ets 1 Mane?
\ 1K

| WIG 'T Basin.
[oo EAE PEL,
ALWAYS TieeD, t Canir

CONCENTRATE, AND- s+
‘fevers jover Pee

On YEAH? THAT SOUNDSK MID OF Lite ... ~~

DEPRESSION. | -
REND ABOUT IT IW...
su

(Sigh) JSTHERE A
cule For. THAT q

Venn, AT LEAST] fr

1 THINK 50-04

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

No Op

inions, Please.

Facing Depression

Sex, Alcohol, and Self-Esteem. Ten free sessions. Take Back the Night.
Body-image discussion group. Faces of Depression.

These are all faces of depression.

Davidson works actively to relieve the symptoms but not to heal the wound.
So we patch it with band-aids. Rough fall semester? Try going abroad in the
spring. Many of us who choose to study overseas profess a commitment to the
understanding of a global village. “I really want to expand my horizons,” we tell
ourselves. Yet, another reason, sometimes omitted but often not, is the burning
desire to be away from Davidson.

Why?

This is a nice place. Meals are prepared for us. Our clothes are washed.
Lawns are mown. Bike thefts are the biggest offenses to reach crime reports.
ATM machines and the post office are nearby. People smile. What’s wrong?

Many people are happy here. But many of those who are not find themselves
trapped in a place without many outlets, confined to carrels and computers,
studying away their negative energies and ticking off the days until the next
break. :

Why do we see this so often here? Possibly, those depressed would be so at
any college. But more likely than not those who dislike our idyllic little school
are struggling with claustrophobia: a disease induced by the one-sidedness of our
social life and the three-sidedness of the typical library carrel.

A lot of this is college in general, not Davidson College. In The Davidsonian
office late last Sunday night, four of us took the self-screening test for depression.
To our amazement, we all tested super positive. Yes, we all found that irritability,
changes in sleeping pattern, fatigue, inability to concentrate, changes in weight,
and restlessness were regular parts of our Davidson experience. Ironically, we
took the test laughing and joking.

Depression day will not solve true depression problems. Most college
students find themselves acting irregularly due to workload, not due to depres-
sion. True depression has roots much deeper than can be solved in a phone call
to a one-day-only hotline. Many unhappy students rise above it—most do,
apparently, judging by our retention rate. This exemplifies the love/hate factor.

Davidson is a wonderful place, for many reasons. But many find that we have
problems not addressed by the administration: is the workload equal to the
difficulty of our classes? How can we work with the town to establish more off-
campus hangouts for students? Why are major weekends for alumnae structured
around fraternities? How can we encourage more students to get involved on
campus? Why are less students involved every year, but over-studying more?
How can we slow the burn-out that leaves so many students exhausted ab the end
of their sophomore year? How do we help alleviate the causes of excessive abuse
(drugs, alcohol, food, sex, sleep-deprivation, et al.) students find comfort in?
How can we help students recognize and handle their problems instead of
fostering systematic denial and escapism?

We recognize that not everyone, and (we hope) not the majority are
depressed or have trouble managing their problems. Davidson is a school that
probably attracts students who place high levels of stress onto themselves, and
students who are used to throwing themselves full-throttle into most everything
they do, whether studying or partying; regardless, this does not absolve the

school in its responsibility to actively help create a healthy environment to learn —

and live in.

To the Editors:

The following is a gen-
eral address to Sabine Heller,
regarding her original article,
“Yes, I am an angry femi-
nist” (Sept. 23), and her re-
cent response, “In my de-
fense, for the time being”
(Oct. 7).

Sabine Heller has made
two serious mistakes in the
course of her protracted fum-
ing in The Davidsonian’s fo-
rum. First, she errs in as-
suming that anyone should
listen to what she has to say
solely because she is furi-
ous. No one besides Ms.
Heller’s roommate has any
reason to care whether she’s

angry or not. The distinction
between “feel” and “think”
—and the distinction is pro-
found—obviously eludes her.

In her second Davidsonian -

piece, she begins the middle
portion of her defense with
the words, “I feel that it is
crazy to infer.” We all have
feelings, but they’ re best left
in the hands of close friends
or trained professionals, not
the student body as a whole.

Ms. Heller makes her
second serious error when
she mistakes intelligent dis-
agreement for obtuseness
and ignorance. Of the state-
ment “Men and women [in
society] are pretty much

equal,” she writes, “It is pre-
cisely this level of ignorance
that infuriates me.” The ar-
rogance she demonstrates is
ridiculous. Respect for the
possibility that reasonable
people can disagree while
remaining reasonable is not
too much to expect on a col-
lege campus, even an unen-
lightened campus like
Davidson’s. .
Unfortunately, for
Sabine Heller, there’s norea-
son for any of us to tune in to
her tirades when all we’re
going tohearisalotofheavy
breathing, =

Jim Stuntz '99

Thank you

To the Editors:

Thank you very much
for the generous space you
gave to the National Depres-

‘| sion Screening Day efforts

in The Davidsonian. This is
the second year we have
sponsored the participation
of our campus in this na-

tional effort to increase
awareness and knowledge of
the illness depression. Last
year we had many students
come to the Counseling Cen-
ter after the program, people
who might not have thought
to otherwise. I expect that
we will have the same result

this year. I appreciate your
willingness to help us in this
and other efforts to educate
the campus community
about important mental
health issues.

DeWitt Crosby, Ph.D.

Roast oxen for Pakistan

To the Editors:

As a Pakistani at
Davidson, I launch a
“strongly worded protest”
with you regarding your re-
cent article by Yanti Ardie

that claimed that Pakistanis
do everything around food.
To show our displeasure, I
call on all friends of Paki-
stan to join in a whole-roast-
oxen barbeque outside the

Davidsonian office.

Sincerely,
Saad Gul ‘97

You can still get your
T-Shirt! Only $10.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the spring term by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address-all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149,
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board. of The Davidsoniah.' Subscriptioris’ cost $35.00 per’ year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

All the cool kids are
wearing them.

' t ; oS: wf at |
2) t »

