THE DAVIDSONIAN

OPINIONS

MONDAY, MARCH 25, 1996 Sa

3 Audrey Edmundson
Minor Turnout

Asa student who could possibly benefit from the incorporation of
minors at Davidson, I attended the so-called faculty/student forum on
minors held in the 900 Room last Wednesday. I went hoping to gain
new insight into why the faculty had previously voted against the
incorporation of minors into courses of study. Out of the 60 or so
people who attended the forum, only two were not students; one was
a dean and one was a professor. This tiny representation made me feel
as though the faculty didn’t really care how students felt about minors.
In the past few months, over a quarter of the student body filled out and
returned surveys concerning minors and expressed an overwhelming
desire to have them.

Twice, petitions have been circulated, each time yielding over
400 signatures of students in favor of minors. Then, last week, at a
forum that was designed to bring faculty and students together to
discuss their attitudes concerning minors, ‘the students had another
strong showing in favor of minors. What does the faculty want us to
do to prove that yes, a large percentage of students support having
minors with very worthy arguments? I salute the student-run Council
on Academic Affairs, who have so wholeheartedly adopted this cause.
Unfortunately, it appears to me that the effort has been less than
fruitful; the Council has continously proved that student want minors,
yet the faculty doesn’t act on it because they say they don’t hear from
enough students directly about how they feel.

The forum was designed for the faculty and students to share those
feelings. It really struck me that so many students sacrificed their time
in the middle of the afternoon to show their support. It was just a shame
that not more of the faculty was there to hear the commentaries and
opinions that were exchanged. The forum had the potential to clear up
many misconceptions held by the students and faculty concerning
each others opinions on minors. Instead, it was quite one-sided, with
students asking members of the Council and the SGA why the faculty
seemed so opposed to the idea. Of course, they could only speculate
about the reasoning driving the faculty decision.

I hope that students will continue to actively voice their opinions
on minors. I also hope that on April 2 when the faculty votes whether
or not to accept minors that they acknowledge the sentiments that so

many students have so strongly and consistently expressed.

No go on

Ken May

Thanks for all the
memories ... and
friendship

A great deal has been written
about the Super Senior class of the
Davidson Men’s Basketball Team.
All of this press has been well
deserved and long overdue after
four years of hard work.

Before these five guys leave
Davidson and call it a career, I’d
like to pay tribute to one more
aspect of their legacy, an aspect
not often remembered. No one
doubts the unbelievable talent and
teamwork of these seniors, but
what I'd like to thank them for is
their friendship.

Unlike so many big Division I
universities, Davidson athletes are
tightly integrated into the academic
and social lives of the normal stu-
dent body. We sitnextto Brandon
and Quinn in class, chat and share
a few beers with Chris and Mark at
Twenty-One Year Old Night, and

discuss last night’s game with Jeff .

in the line at the Commons. And
they respond with genuine respect
and interest because they are our
friends. How often do you think
this happens at bigger programs

with more highly touted (but no
more talented) players? In my
experience, such “stars” are placed
or place themselves in a position
above or removed from the rest of
the students. They are on a pedes-
tal for all to see and admire but not
to touch. That is what makes our
guys so special. They are a part of
us and enjoy being that way.

Let me illustrate with an epi-
sode from my distant past. Way
back in the fall of my freshman
year, I had the dream of playing
basketball for Davidson. I planned
to try-out for the team, but was
indeed very apprehensive about
how I would be treated by the
“real” players.

I mean, why should these re-
cruited athletes give one hoot about
some little. upstart who wanted to
join their ranks? I couldn’t have
been more off the mark. From the
very day they met me, these se-
niors (then sophomores) embraced
me as a teammate and friend, ex-
ceeding even my greatest expecta-
tions. As well as the respect they

gave me on the court, these special
players encouraged and invited me
to join them ona social level. Need
I say what a lasting impression
their attention and Kindness made
on me?

To this day three years later,
every one of those guys continues
to treat me with the same respect
and friendship that they always
have. I’m sure you all can vouch
for the same experience.

I guess what I’m trying to say is
that what makes our Davidson
Wildcat senior class so remarkable
is not their amazing performances
on the court, but rather their amaz-
ing characters off the court.

Many players at their level
can dunk a basketball, but not
nearly so many will sit down and
talk about it (or anything else for
that matter) as a true friend. Bran-
don, Chris, Jeff, Mark, and Quinn,
thanks for all the memories on the
court, but even more for all the
friendship you’ve shown the
Davidson College community in
your four years here!

“Pimp and Ho”:
Brothers of Kappa Sigma, McKelvie respond

To the Editors:

The brothers of Kappa Sigma
would like to respond to Katie
McKelvie’s article, “Bad idea, and
even worse timing ...” in last
week’s The Davidsonian. In the
article, Ms. McKelvie stated that a
“Pimp and Ho” party. is a bad idea
because many females feel it is a
demeaning and offensive theme.
She also pointed out that it would
occur at a completely inappropri-
ate time because it would precede
this Monday’s “Take Back the
Night.” As brothers, we completely
respect her opinion, in fact we agree
with it.

For this reason we have spent
the last few weeks discussing a
more appropriate theme for the
party. Monday night at out house
meeting we formally decided we
would halt a potentially bad situa-
tion by canceling “Pimp and Ho”
forever. All these events occurred
before Ms. McKelvie’s article in
The Davidsonian was distributed.

Before writing her piece Ms.
McKelvie failed to contact any of
the principle decision makers in
the fraternity concerning the party.
In fact, though we had a closed
party scheduled for Saturday night,
the theme was yet to be decided
when Ms. McKelvie submitted her
article. Furthermore, “Pimp and
Ho” was never registered or publi-
cized by Kappa Sigma. With this

in mind, we feel she acted
unprofessionally and with ques-
tionable journalistic ethics by of-
fering criticism without knowing
or presenting all the facts.

Based on a party originally
held by a group of off-campus stu-
dents, “Pimp and Ho” originated

as atheme party meant to satirize a :

certain lifestyle. Unfortunately,
many people were offended by
what they perceived as sexist and
demeaning treatment towards
women.

Such an effect was completely
unintentional. Many of the female
members who wentexpressed their
dismay at the reaction of others
because they had a great time.
However, we understand that the
concept behind the party remains
offensive. Therefore, we will not
try to justify or defend the party
and are sympathetic to anyone who
may have thought it distasteful or
insulting.

Not wishing to offend or per-
petuate stereotypes counterproduc-
tive to Women’s Month, we de-
cided not to repeat the “Pimp and
Ho”. theme to avoid the same reac-
tion this year. We sincerely apolo-
gize to any females who were of-
fended last year and hope they
understand that degradation was
not our intention. Overall, we feel
that as a fraternity we acted re-
sponsibly.

We would like to be very care-
ful here in stating that we neither
denigrate Ms.- McKelvie or her
beliefs. We merely feel that her
article, as well as the editorial car-
toon printed last week, represent
criticisms. presented prematurely
and without substantial evidence.
When composing a piece that dis-
parages a group of individuals —
whether intentional or not — one
should be especially careful. In the
future, we hope that Ms. McKelvie,
the editorial cartoonist, and others
will not be so quick to judge.

Sincerely,
The Brothers of Kappa Sigma

To the Editors:

So as not to drag out the de-
bate over my “Pimp and Ho” ar-
ticle to next week’s The
Davidsonian, 1 have decided to
address Kappa Sigma’s response
to my article in this issue. (In the
interest of fairness, I have shown
my re-response to the “principle
decision makers” in Kappa Sigma
so they might have the chance to
include any re-re-responses in their
letter).

While the letter submitted by
the Brothers of Kappa Sigma states
that they “neither denigrate [me or

my] beliefs,” the letter does argue
that I acted “unprofessionally and
with questionable journalistic eth-
ics by offering criticism without
knowing or presenting all the
facts.” Clearly, I disagree.

The weekend before The
Davidsonian went to print early
Monday morning, I told a member
of Kappa Sigma that I had written
the article. He expressed no con-
cern that the party might be can-
celed. Inaddition, contrary to what
the brothers’ letter says, the party
had been “publicized” in the Rusk
Social Calendar.

As the letter from Kappa

YEP... We EYPECT TO
SELL Quite h FEW & a

Hoke BABIES PEIWEEN PRD

NOW AND NOVEMPER!... fre

Sigma states, they canceled the
party “Monday night at our house
meeting.” Well, the entire paper
was at the printer’s at that point so
there was nothing I could do to
retract any part of my letter. Thus,
I fail to see what about my actions
were unprofessional — I simply
expressed my personal opinion
about a party (that had yet to be
canceled) in the proper forum: the
school newspaper’s Opinions sec-
tion. What “journalistic ethics”
did I violate?

Sincerely,
Katie McKelvie

Please sabrait all opinions
articles by Wednesdays, on a
Macintosh Word Perfect disc.
Call Katie, -2148

