16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dorcas AND JoHNNY K.

Consulting Astrologists

Taurus (April 21- May 21)— This week you help the autobots race
to destroy the evil forces of the decepticons, or maybe you just
try to destroy the evil brenda “hello seniors” harvey™
automaton. Lucky Place: FirstUnionorNationsBank,

Charlotte.

Gemini (May 21-June 20)— A train leaves Boston at 8 p.m. and
travels toward New York at 50 mph. Another train leaves New
York at 7:30 pm. It is travelling at 36 mph. At what point do these
two trains meet? Do Not : try to answer this question, math is for
Mephisto.

Cancer (June 21-July 22)— You, LUCKY YOU, Cancer. You
never have to do-math again for as long as you live. Nor do you
have to do Physics, which is also really only math. Do Not: do
math.

Leo (July 23-August 22)— Fascists determine where one can park in
this town. Instead of fasting or burning yourself in protest,
consider alternate means of transportation: pogo balls, go-carts,
roller skates, and skis will all serve you well.

Virgo (August 23-September 22)— To improve your memory before
exams, play a game like Simon™. Those four pretty little colored
triangles should give you much aural pleasure. Do Not: get an
easy bake oven (it cooked using a @#$!ing lightbulb).

_Libra (September 23- October 22)— Start a collection to ameliorate
stress. Toys from the 80s bode well for appreciation in value. Try
to find Sylvanian Family®, My Buddy® (NOT KID SISTER©)
and Alphie (that robot you stuck those cards in) 80s zeitgeist
invocation: Monchichi, Mon-Chi-Chi. Oh so cute and
cud-dil-ly.™

Scorpio (October 23-November 21)— Nine Sprites™ exit the coke
machine in the basement of Chambers. (GASP) What do you do?
In a normal world: drink them. In the alternate reality we call
Davidson: compose a pithy note, arrange the sprites in pyramid
form and leave them outside of Dean Shandley’s office. Do Not:
obey your thirst.

Sagittarius (November 22-December 21)— Build a playground in

‘the middle of campus. Play on it. Then try to take yourself
seriously. Do Not: really do this.

Capricorn (December 22-January 19)— Children of the Corn, you
are awfully nostalgic this week. That probably explains why you
crave Capri Sun. ;

Aquarius (January 20-February 18)— Paradise is obviously lost tous
here, at least in terms of the darkness visible kind of weather
we’ve been having. Pray to Zephyrus, the gentle west wind to
blow forth some beautiful weather from Cythera.

Pisces (February 19-March 20)— You are a fishperson, so explore
seafood options in the area. Just kidding. Never eat seafood
inland. Especially not in a 24hour restaurant near a man-made
lake. Lucky Person: Jesus.

Aries (March 21-April 20)— Don’t let immense pride lead to your
downfall. If you talk too much in class, then chill. Everyone will
hate you because you are so annoying.

Today’s mathematical problem: Ten
more days, three more free sessions.

By JAMES BERRY
Staff Writer

I think Kevin Smith, director
and screenwriter for the movie
Chasing Amy, has discovered his
niche in the film industry. Rather,
I think he’s rediscovered his niche.
His latest release returns to the gritty,
stark style that his first movie,
Clerks. (period intended), used so
well. And Amy doesn’t even come
close to mimicking the styled im-
ages that made Mallrats such a bad
marriage of script and screen.
Smith’s stories almost require alow
budget (or at least a low budget
feel). to make them work. Part of
their charm relies on the fact that
they look like they were edited by a
monkey with a bad sense of timing.

Like Clerks., Chasing Amy fol-
lows the misadventures of two char-
acters that might as well be two
halves of the same whole. Holden
and Banky are comic book artists
who share a friendship of some 20
years — and an apartment. Holden
falls for a girl named Alyssa who
we soon find out is a lesbian (the
previews give away as much so
don’t think I’m spoiling the plot).
Banky, in an attempt to retain his
friendship, tries to convince Holden
that it’s a worthless cause to the
point of digging some serious dirt
on her. I shouldn’t tell you much
about Alyssa—she does a much
better job than I.ever could. And
Holden, well, Holden’s in love so
he has problems of his own.

Smith’s previous movies deal
with relationships and all they en-
compass: emotion, sex, social con-
ventions, sex, confusion, sex, de-
sire ... didI mention sex? Chasing

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Holden and Alyssa share a moment.

Momma always said love was confusing

Chasing Amy explores sex, comic books, and cheese.

New York Magazine

Amy is no different. I’m beginning
to think that Smith is writing love
songs in the form of movie scripts
and then tagging on a lot of twisted
humor, But through all the laugh-
ter, he looks to tackle some serious
issues about the bonds between
human beings and what those bonds
do (or should) consist of.

Kevin Smith movies make me

: feel like I’m part of a club. He

constantly refers back to his own
work and the characters therein so if
you’ ve seen more than one, you’re
in on the joke. If not, there’s an
incentive to rent the video (dang,
marketing ploy?). The product is a
kind of world view — an
interconnectedness that puts seem-
ingly random events into context.
One of the great things about these
movies is that the plots are incred-
ibly simple but become all the more
interesting for what details happen
along the way. And chances are
that you’re going to see some famil-
iar faces no matter where you look.
I think Smith has a lot of unem-
ployed actor-friends.

I'd love to offer some quotes

from the movie but pretty much
anything good would be riddled with
“#%* &\” and might notmake much
sense, which is an odd characteris-
tic for profanity since swear words
are, on the whole, interchangeable.
In fact, that’s one of the things that
sets Kevin Smith apart. Where
Tarantino might pack a block of
dialogue with a profusion of cuss
words, it takes talent like Smith’s to
make that block of dialogue cre-
ative and interesting. Smith finds
humor in the images he can create “
with an extended vocabulary. Can
Isay “jiz mopper” on the Arts page?
[Ed. note: Yes.]}

Chasing Amy, while very much
atypical Smith film, seems to tackle
some more serious issues and in so
doing, ends up coming offas slightly
cheesy in parts.

* But the visual style, the grit
that reminds us of the text’s reality,
compliments the cheese factor very
well. If you go, be prepared for an
almost adamant rebellion against
Hollywood stylization. Focus on
the characters — not that you’ll
have a choice.

Cook fresh Lemon-Herbed Green Beans

By JEFFERY CROMARTIE

. Associate Arts&Living Editor

1 pound of fresh green beans
Olive oil or vegetable cooking spray
1 clove garlic, minced

1 1/2 teaspoons of fresh chopped

oregano

3 tablespoons of water

1 table spoon of fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt

1/8 teaspoon pepper

1 tablespoon of fresh grated
Parmeasan cheese

UNION

Are you interested in politics, current events, or other issues that
affect your life on this campus?

If so, the Union Board is interested in hearing from you!

Please contact Donna Gribble (x6006), Matthew Hobbie (x6344),
or Michelle Bougdanos (x6486) to find out more about becoming

the new
Campus Forum Committee Chair.

Wash the beans and cut off the
ends. Then, drop them in boiling
water for five minutes. Your beans
should be both crisp and a little
tender. Drain the beans and setthem
aside.

Coat a large non-stick skillet
with cooking spray and add a bit of
olive oil. Place over medium heat
until hot. Next, add the garlic and
the oregano and stir constantly for
one minute. Add the green beans
and 3 tablespoons of water. Bring
to a boil and remove from heat.
Quickly add lemon juice, salt, and
pepper, and then toss everything.
Finally, add the cheese on top and
immediately serve.

This yields 4 servings. This
should be the last thing you prepare
because it gets cold pretty quickly,
and they taste much better warm.
Hope you enjoy!

It’s never too late
to write for The
Davidsonian.

Sign up next year
with Kruse and
Liz Sale.

