THE pa ONAN if

McKillop, team embody important 7 voles, epitomize school as a whole

RAHAMSTOWN, South

Africa — I’m enjoying my

Junior Year Abroad im-

mensely. But as the 1997-

98 Davidson basketball season gets un-

derway, and I must search the Internet
for coverage, I feel a definite void.

With each win that Davidson posts,

I am of course elated. But at the same

time, I am frustrated that I can’t be there

to see it. It is at these moments, when
I’m checking results on the Wildcat
basketball home page, that I truly feel
the weight of each and every one of
those thousands of miles that separate
me from campus.

I write this article to ask you, the
Davidson College community, to fill
my seat in Belk Arena this season.

An extraordinary ‘era in Wildcat
basketball history is upon us right now.
Davidson is the pride of the Southern
Conference and deserves national rec-
ognition. Like the College itself, the
basketball program is small but mighty,
and marked by a huge sense of ambi-
tion.

The team taking the floor this year
is a special team with a very special
coach. Combining integrity with a tra-
dition of success, Bob McKillop is ina

class by himself. We should all be
grateful to Coach McKillop for opting
to remain at the helm here as long as he
has. A coach of his caliber most cer-
tainly has offers from basketball pro-
grams around the nation.

I’ve heard the voices of the dis-
senters, those who have chosen to with-
hold their support from the basketball
program. And though their arguments
make me nauseous, objectivity requires
that I address them nonetheless.

They say Davidson isn’t just about
basketball, and of course they are abso-
lutely right.

By all means, support drama, mu-
sic, and art department events. Support
Habitat for Humanity and other service
projects. Write for the Davidsonian,
Libertas, or Hobart Park:

But please, please set aside time to
take in the Wildcats’ home basketball
contests. Each and every vocal Wildcat
fan is.a tremendous asset to the pro-
gram. The impact of vociferous crowd
support cannot be underestimated.

If it were up to me, I would close
down E.H. Little’s fine library during
allhome games. The library, my friends,
will always be there for you; the 1997-
98 Davidson basketball season will not.

If you’ ve been to enough Wildcat
basketball games and wholeheartedly
followed the team, then you'll know
thata very tangible school spirit, aschool
pride, is felt in Belk Arena when the
Wildcats are out on the floor.

The camaraderie shared amongst

Davidson supporters in Belk Arena
should for all intents and purposes trans-
late into greater success for all of them
in the classroom. And here’s why: The
most successful students on campus
possess an enlightened perspective on
the whole college experience and,
through it, are able to avoid burnout.

They understand that college isn’t
just about studying night and day. Here’s
the clincher, though: Great students re-
ally love their school. Because they
love their school, these students wish to
present it to the best of their ability, to
give all of themselves to it, and thus
lend the title “Davidson scholar” great
dignity and meaning.

perspective, if not a greater love for
learning. The spirit felt in Belk Arena
should remind you why you chose
Davidson. The basketball team’s credo
— “Trust. Commitment. Care.” —
applies campus-wide and involves each
and every one of you.

First-year students, please take
heed, and don’t make the same mistake
I made —I wasn’t there to support my
team at the Southern Conference tour-
nament in my freshman year.

Here’s a small guidebook on what
it takes to be a Wildcat Superfan:

eA Wildcat Superfan attends all
home games (getting there before tip-
off), and makes several road trips to

“The basketball team’s credo — ‘Trust. Commitment.
Care.’ — applies campus-wide and involves each and

every one of you.”

Few things have lent me more love
for my school than the Wildcat basket-
ball program. The program so much
epitomizes the school as a whole. It is
small, often overlooked and underesti-
mated, and yet never relinquishes its
tenacious underdog spirit.

Go to Belk Arena, then, take in a
game, lend a supporting voice to your
team and your school, and I promise
that when you return to your books, you
will do so with greater clarity and greater

watch the team play.

*By game’s end, a Wildcat
Superfan’ s throat burns from yelling so
much.

eA Wildcat Superfan’s heart
pounds with each possession for the last
20 minutes of each regular season con-
test and all 40 minutes in postseason
games.

eA Wildcat Superfan rises to his or
her feet at critical moments of the con-
test and stay there until the very end of

the game.

eA Wildcat Superfan listens to
away games on the radio and refers to
broadcaster Frank Santore as “Dad”
in close conversation.

*As a Wildcat Superfan, you di-
gest the Davidsonian basketball pages
thoroughly, and scan other papers and
magazines for Wildcat clippings as
well. You follow the —e and
standings.

¢You idolize the players, even
though they don’t hold themselves
aloof.

*Most importantly, though, when
the Southern Conference tournament
in Greensboro arrives at the end of
February, you pack a car with a group
of your friends, drive there, and cheer
Davidson onto glory.

Call mea fanatic, ora misguided
youth caught up in America’s glorifi-
cation of sport. Call me crazy for
preferring to return home for the South-
ern Conference tournament instead of
the Christmas holidays.

Call me anything you want, but
please fill my seat. From thousands of
miles away, this article is the best I can
do right now to support the team.

Write to me at
g97c1002 @leopard.ru.ac.za and -tell
me about your favorite moments this
season.

Let me hear those voices in Belk
Arena echo all the way over here to
South Africa.

I'll be listening.

Staff is library’s best resource
Helpfulness reaches beyond call of duty

nter-library loan, microfiche, mi-
crofilm, and the Internet. I used
tobe library illiterate. Afternearly
. four years at Davidson, however,
I have been forced to delve into the
various resources at Davidson’s E. H.
Little Library and learn what informa-
tion is out there and how to access it.
This semester, I, the library illiter-
ate, faced the unthinkable — History
480. While research is a way of life for
a history major, the senior research pa-
per is quite a different issue. Many
thousands of words of original research
need to be engineered from a billion
different sources, both secondary and
‘primary, to produce a marvelous addi-
tion to history archives that every his-
tory major can call his or her own.
Despite my know-enough-to-get-
by knowledge of the library, fear was at
my side, and I had to achieve an under-
standing of the library

and often detested institution at
Davidson, the library staff is the most
reassuring, helpful, enthusiastic and
outgoing group of people for which a
library illiterate could hope. -

Each ‘time I am at the library for

my history paper, I feel like I have some
new anxiety to sob over with the staff.
Each time I leave with a relaxed smile
on my face. I can’t help it— they are so

nice!

Whether I have a question about
how to do a certain Internet search or
am hunting down a withered govern-
ment book from the 1800s, the staff has

minutes, the third person called me with
more information about the book I
needed. Notonly did they save me atrip
up the hill, but heck, they were looking
for me! My project became their en-
deavor.

Another time, my roommate, a
prominent member of the inter-library
loan staff, came home witha photocopy
of adocument that I used for my paper.
Someone had been flipping through an
old book and saw an article pertaining
to my paper topic. This wonderful staff
member remembered that. the article
pertained to my topic, photocopied it,
copied all the bibliographic informa-
tion, and sent it home with my room-
mate, hoping it might be of use to me!

I cannot say “thank you” enough.
To name each staff member and every
incident of helpfulness would surely
leave someone out, so I won’t try. Re-

gardless, with the final

above and beyond my
usual capacities.
During the first
weeks of the semester,
the anxious (not enthusi-

Staff acts as guiding light in once-library
illiterate student’s trek through History 480.

draft of my History 480
paper looming ahead, I
cannot ignore the incred-
ible support the library
staff-has given me. The

astic) History 480. stu-
dents got re-oriented to
Little Library. A small staff from the
library designed a special program for
us, explaining things about history jour-
nals, CD-ROMs, Internet resources, and
inter-library loan. I learned that I only
knew the ABCs of library lingo and had
along way to go. The staff reassured us
that they were there to help us and
welcomed us to approach them with
questions and concerns. They were true
to their word.

_ While the library itself is a feared

been there for me with answers.

After my first bout with interli-
brary loan, I received a personal phone
call regarding my requests. Some of the
resources I asked for were available at
Little Library. I was told to call another
staff member to find out how to access
them.

Within minutes, however, another
personcalled me. She told me she knew
I needed a certain document and should
calla third person. Within another few

library illiteratehas found .

a haven.

So, with the utmost sincerity, I
would like to extend my thanks to the
illustrious staff at E. H. Little Library.
Despite the bad rap the library itself
may carry, the people who work there
make up for the green carpet and daunt-
ing stacks,

I hope this article provides hope
for other closet library illiterates and
encourages them to approach the li-
brary staff with their questions, They
are the library’s best resource.

HAVE AN OPINION? WRITE IT DOWN.
Call David (x6731) or Kristen (x6640).

ehan Shamsid-Deen asked

Buster Burk an, extremely im

portant question at the SGA

meeting the other night: What
do you mean by diversity?

The question is extremely valu-
able to ask at Davidson and is frustrat-
ingly unanswerable right now.

The Priorities Planning Group,
which is trying to decide in which
direction Davidson will be moving for
the next five to 10 years, is looking at
the issue of diversity along with sev-

SE

eral other issues that are of interest to
students.

Burk, SGA President, asked the
SGA to offer opinions on these issues.
The discussion that ensued was neces-
sary and interesting but really led no-
where. Unfortunately, I don’t think
Jehan’s question was ever answered.

Superficially, Davidson has done
a great job of diversifying its popula-
tion in recent years. The Admissions
.and Financial Aid offices work dili-
gently to attract minority students to
Davidson. We have programs in place
to make minorities who attend
Davidson feel more a part of the com-
munity. Minority students come to
Davidson early for pre-orientation,
which is run in part by older minority
students.

At pre-orientation, minorities
have a‘chance to meet other minorities
and start building community. Minor-
ity students also have host families
within the community.

This is the first year that the Resi-

cially cluster minorities together on
halls.

There is a large enough number
of minority students for them to live in
close proximity to other minorities.

’ Even Patterson Court has been

dence Life Office hasn’t had to artifi-

‘Davidson divided

receptive to minorities. Alpha Tau
Omega was a fraternity on campus in
the 1960s. When they allowed a black
student to join the fraternity, they lost
their national charter and no longer
exist at Davidson.

And Davidson’s own KA, “The
Order,” was the first to have a black
member in the nation. All of these
things speak wonderfully of
Davidson’s efforts in the area of diver-
sification.

There is no doubt in my mind that
diversity is a wonderful thing. The
collective body of knowledge increases
with greater diversity.. Opportunities
to create cross-cultural understanding
lie before us but are frequently swept
under the carpet. As students, we
neglect to take advantage of the diver-
sity that is within our population.

The “black experience” at
Davidson College is quite different
from the “white experience,” from
what I understand. There is an area in
the Commons in which only. black
students sit, converse, and eat.

AtPhi-Delt’s Airband party, there
was a black section and a white sec-
tion. We segregate ourselves, refus-
ing to take advantage of diversity that
this institution tries so desperately to
create.

This is not a new topic to anyone.
I wish I could suggest solutions.
Awareness of the problem is impor-
tant.

Dialogue in a non-threatening
atmosphere is necessary. Forums are
wonderful, but practically speaking,
they often deepen the canyons that
already divide us.

What is the value of diversity
here at Davidson? We are meeting
quotas but not creating an atmosphere
where diversity.is valued.

And what is diversity?

I realize that there is diversity in
an all-white, upper-class group of.
young adults, but I am not satisfied
with that being our notion of diversity.
We shouldn’t settle for being a micro-
cosm of American society. ;

