6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ELSEWHERE

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 1997

Washington prepares for inaguration

By NaresH NAGELLA
Staff Writer

The atmosphere finally seems
to be getting cooler in Washing-
ton.

Not only is it expected to be
about 30 degrees during the inau-
guration of President Bill Clinton’s
second term, but the partisan heat
from Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich’s ethics problems seems
to have stopped.

The House Democratic Lead-
ership agreed to support the Ethics
committee’s punishment of

Gingrich to rest at a $300,000 fine
and official reprimand. They will
not seek further charges.

Under House Republican
rules, the recently re-elected
speaker will not have to lose his
position. He will be the first Re-
publican Speaker of the House to
serve two terms since 1923.

Meanwhile, President Clinton
will be sworn into office atnoon by
Chief Justice William Rhenquist.

After, he will give his inaugu-
ral address, which looks to be one
that will follow his campaign
themes of seeking a “vital center”

and strong bipartisanship to gov-
ern. The day will end witha total of
12 official inaugural balls that the
President plans to attend.

In other political news, the
cost of last year’s campaign ended
up costing $21 a voter (or $2 bil-
lionin total), making 1996 the cost-
liest political year ever.

While the figure might sound
low, only 7% of voting Americans
actually contribute to political cam-
paigns.

Congress plans to pass some
sort of campaign finance reform in
the upcoming session.

Schicksalsgemeinschaft making Russians angry

By NARESH NAGELLA
Staff Writer

The word means “community
of shared destiny” in German, but
ithas the Russians asking “Why?!”

Germans use the word to de-
scribe why they, America, and
other nations are joined together in
NATO, the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization.

NATO was originally de-
signed to stop contain Communist
expansion inside the former Iron
Curtain. However, since the end of
the Cold War many of its leaders
feel that it has outgrown that pur-
pose. It currently works on other
projects, such as peacekeeping in
Bosnia.

That is why:the NATO, under
the directive of President Clinton
will seek to expand their member-
ship to Poland, Hungary, and the
Czech Republic. All three coun-
tries, after 4 decades of Commu-
nist rule, seem to have achieved
thenecessary democratic processes

and economic stability needed to
join. °

The Russians, however, are
very upset at the enlarging of an
organization aimed originally to
contain its activities and authority.
President Boris Yeltsin has ex-
pressed vigorous opposition to the
plan. He says it is an unnecessary
provocation, threat, and limit to
Russian interests. Former Presi-
dent Mikhail Gorbachev says it
might rekindle the Cold War.

Some Americans do not see
the value in NATO expansion, ei-
ther. Michael Mandlebaum of the
Council on Foreign Relations be-
lieves taking the countries in is
unnecessary in this time of peace.
He says economic and political
cooperation are needed to help re-
vive the Russian economy. He
thinks it might hurt Russia’s
progress towards democracy and
nothelp fight any real risk. Finally,
he says that if Russia does slip
back into authoritarianism, the

three countries could them be in-
ducted into NATO to help protect
its Eastern flank.

Supporters, like former secre-
tary of state Henry Kissinger, say
that Western nations will be too
slow or too scared to induct the
countries if Russia does slip back
into authoritarianism.

He also cites that the leaders
of Poland, Hungary, and the Czech
Republic probably know what it is
more of a real threat to their inter-
ests rather than foreign dissenters.

The timetable for expansion
will last about two more years and
the actual military technicalities of
the “new” NATO will not be seen
for much later.

However, NATO’s current
“common destiny” will continue
to anger Russian leaders.

-Information from the St. Peters-
burg Times, New York Times, and
Jack R. Payton’s international col-
umn were used for this synopsis.

SIGNE -
PHILADELPHIA DAILY NEWS
i ia

USA

5
i

BLVDIONAS SH3LIUM 9 SLSINOOLHYD

(Be He SPORERMAN ENTE BHA: mit pOgpolke-sm a.com

Cy

Aauidsanian

Beyond Davidson

ES EE Te TT TE IE TTT TTT

International ...
Boris Yeltsin hospitalized for pneumonia

Russian president Boris Yeltsin returned to the hospital last week
when he began suffering from signs of pneumonia. Yeltsin underwent |:
heart-bypass surgery just two months ago. His political opponents,
including former USSR president Mikhail Gorbachev, have com-
plained vocally that Yeltsin’s poor health has kept him from perform-
ing his duties as president.

Belgian police raid homes in child pornography operation

Belgian police, acting on information and tips received from Great
Britain and France, searched 60 homes for child pornography in and

‘around Brussels last week. Last August, two young girls were rescued

from a convicted rapists self-made “dungeon” in Brussels. Many
believe last week’s coordinated operation to be a response by police
to heavy criticism which stemmed from the August incident.

Zaire’s president returns to France

Zaire’ s president Mobutu Sese Seko returned to France last week, only
a month after being called to Zaire from his French villa in order to
handle a rebel insurgency. Mobutu had been living in France from
Augustuntil mid December. Zaire’s president suffers from cancer and
receives medical treatment in France, where he owns a hom

National ...
Bill Cosby’s son shot to death

Actor Bill Cosby’s son Ennis Cosby was shot to death last Thursday
along the roadside in the Santa Monica Mountains. Police speculate
that Ennis Cosby, a 27-year-old doctoral student, was attempting to
change a flat tire on his Mercedes-Benz convertible when he was
murdered. Police say he was apparently the victim of arandomattack.

Texas county adopts a new greeting and drops “hello”

Kleberg County, a small ranching town in Texas, is trying to do away
with the greeting “hello”. County Commissioners there unanimously
passed a resolution creating a new county greeting, “heaven-o”.
Proponents of the measure say the “hell” in “hello” has a negative
meaning and should be replaced by “heaven”. Last Thursday, county
employees answered all phones using the “heaven-o” greeting.

THE Crossword
ACROSS T Tt P| 10 Jit Ji2 Jia
1 Help along
5 Film star 14 15 6
10 Shopping event
14 Ri trea 7 16 19
15 Cut closely
16 At any time bs \ a
17 Injure a 25
18 Satisfies
19 Blood vessel 27 |26 |29 30 {31 32 ]33 34
20 Office gadget fee
22 Certain gear 35 37
24 Succinct best
26 Foodcontainer |°% at 42
27 Trounce
30 Spuds a3 44 45 47
35 Marsh plants my 49
36 Watch face
37 Home for bees 51
38 Special bank
secount letters [54 [55 ss So 60 j61
39 Had
confidence in [82
42 Civil War C3
general
43 Roman money = f@g
45 Son of Seth
46 Change texts © 1996 Tribune Media Services, Inc.
48 Abated All nights reserved.
50
51 “The Raven” ANSWERS
poet :
52 Anesthetic AO OOO OBR
54 Money in NO Bano OAOoo
Pr mckd 9 Move to another [olulalnimmulv(s|ilviMmulolola
62 Indigent 10 Certain fraction eA AO
63 Floweressence 11 Declare
65 Roman fiddler 12 Garlands SjLi¥iviltis G|ajnN/31S/Si3/1
66 Against . 13 Fish-eating bird j|O|N| S/W) VRS /OIN| a ivi wii) 4
67 Tennis score 21 Smallest amount | 3/3/19] 3/1/S/ niu). me viel
68 Ready for 23 By way of SAL tHE vi tio sjalajaiu
publication 25 Chapter slalolialvislola MM s|v/alalaia
69 Young person 27 Military practice nitlsM@@alsiulala
70 Fix in place 28 Ghostly a/s|ulalals/ululalyalvjiis
71 Claret and 29 Dreads wit {a|AMs|3l1lvis Mw) ivi
i 31 Food for dobbin :
Sinan 32 Covain vessel (#/a/AlammalAlvinisimalsjolu
DOWN 33 Happening aj1{visMiulols/o|vislalelv
1 Guns, etc 34 Planter's need
2 Ship 36 Heap of sand
3 English author 40 Deserter :
4E 41 Old-fashioned 50 Apportioned 57 Plant leg
5 State as true 44 Common pain 53 Vestige 59 Give up, as land
6 Bums reliever 54 Fight 60 Dry
7 Make lace 47 Sailor 55 Best of class 61 Large number
8 Atop 49 Period of time 56 Ballot 64 Vat

