Swimming

been here.”

Schnell the 500 freestyle.

Volleyball

°

Fighting Christians.

junior Sarah Covell said.

Contributing: Chris Tuttle, Davidson Sports Information, staff reports

Volleyball squad posts two wins, preps for SCT

Both the men’s and women’s swimming and diving teams lost at East Carolina in a dual meet
Saturday, but coach Rich DeSelm called the teams’ effort “one of the best meet we’ ve had since I’ ve

The men. won four events, as Wildcat male swimmer-of-the-meet Terry Dolch claimed
victories in the 100- and 200-yard backstroke. Adam Kennedy won the 1,000 freestyle and Freddy

The women were winners in five events. Britta Toleman was named female swimmer-of-the-
meet by DeSelm after shattering the school record with a time of 1:08.28 in the 100 breaststroke.
Mary Shell Brosche, Beth Wilson, Mary Noel George, and Elissa Weddle combined to take the
200 medley relay. Kathleen Paffenroth, Weddle, and Brosche also posted individual victories.
Rookie diver Christa Conner won the one-meter dive with a score of 234.00.

The volleyball team won two games this week in preparation for this weekend’s Southern
Conference tournament in Statesboro, Ga.

Elon was no match for the Wildcats Friday night at Elon, as Davidson rebounded from a
sluggish start to record a 10-15, 15-8, 15-10, 15-13 victory. Four Wildcats — Mara Mordini, Janet
Duncan, Brooke Bentley, and Cindy Seegers — registered double-doubles in the win over the

On Saturday, Davidson sandwiched a blowout in between two tight games in a 16-14, 15-1,
15-13 home victory against Georgia Southern. Seniors Lois Ann Bumgarner and Cindy Seegers
were honored in a pregame ceremony for their four years of commitment to the Wildcat program.

“L.A. And Cindy have been great examples for all of us, at work ethic, dedication, and heart,”

WILpDCcAT TENNIS

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997

Harriers run at Regionals

By Bratton HoLmes
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s cross-country teams
concluded their seasons this Saturday at the NCAA
Region III Championship in Greenville, S.C.

The results of the teams’ efforts are deceptive
due to the fact that the competition consisted mostly of
scholarship schools. ,

The men finished 27th out of 29 teams in this 10-
kilometer race, their only such race .of the season.
Davidson entered five runners in the race: Brent
Ferrell, William Isenhour; Thomas McElveen, Pat
Burchett, and Tim O’Keefe. The runners consisted of
one freshman, three sophomores, and a senior.

The absence of freshman phenom Neil Burt
explains why Davidson’ s top five did not consist of all
underclassmen, as it traditionally has this season.
Ferrell finished 129th of 202 runners in the race with
a time of 33:47, and was once again the top runner for
the Wildcats.

The Wildcats finished close behind conference
rivals VMI and the Citadel. With Burt in the race, the
team would have closed in on and possibly passed
these two teams in the race.

Coach Gary Andrew, though admitting that the
finish looks bad on paper, is still satisfied with the
team’s effort. Seniors Tim O’ Keefe and Tripp Franklin
— who was injured for nearly the entire season — are
the only runners the team will lose.

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

The men’s tennis team started off
the fall season right where they left off
last year — at the top of the confer-
ence.

Last year’s team went undefeated
during the regular season before fin-
ishing second in the league’tourney by

Men’s Tennis

Notebook

a single point.

The Wildcats lost only one starter
from that squad, putting them in im-
mediate contention for this season.

- *This
is the first
year we
have all
three
doubles

‘teams re-
turning in-
tact,” coach
: Jeff Frank
said. Two
of those
teams won
league

Pastel - .

championships.

On the singles side, there is only
one opening after the graduation of the
No. 4 seed Derek Schulze.

That spot could be filled by a
number of players including senior
Judson Sutherland, junior Scott
Briggs, and freshmen Billy Boykin,
Chad Phillips, and Whit Hansen.

“T would feel confident playing
any of them at six,” Frank said.

“They have done well in the dual
matches and in the round robin matches
against each other.”

“My biggest problem,” he added,
“will be getting everyone match experi-
ence.”

But that is a good problem to have.
The team returns conference champi-
ons Brett Ialacci (No. 3 singles), Alex
Okulski (No. 6 singles), Sutherland
and Ted Kaplan (No. 1 doubles), and
Jeff Tonidandel and Tyler Epp (No. 3
doubles). .

After a 3-8 start to open the 1997
slate, the Wildcats strung together 11
wins in a row prior to the league tourna-
ment.

“We sort of took off late in the
season,” Frank said.

“This year we’ re not going to sneak
up on anybody.

“We’re the Green Bay of Southern
Conference men’s tennis.”

Pastel in tip-top form

If that is true, then the Brett Favre
of the team is two-time conference
champion Jon Pastel.

All signs point to a strong senior
campaign for the captain from Old
Lyme, Conn.

“Jon has had a very good fall,”
Frank said. .

He has also led the team by ex-
ample.

“A lot of it is his work ethic,”
Frank said of his leadership. “He works
so hard that he sort of shames everyone
else into working just as hard as he
does.”

Pastel and fellow captains Kaplan
and Tonidandel have led intense condi-
tioning drills as well this fall.

On the court, Pastel’s best perfor-
mance was at the UNC Invitational in
Chapel Hill earlier this season.

astel, men’s squad looking strong

A strong core of underclassmen paired with the
return of medical redshirt Josh Cookson bode well for
the men’s squad next year.

The women’s team completed a season that
pleased both the players and coaches. The team
jumped from last in the conference last season to sixth
of 10 schools this fall.

In the Regional meet, their improvement was
again evident, as the Wildcats jumped from 30th of 31
teams last season to 24th this year.

Davidson defeated several larger, scholarship
schools such as Old Dominion, College of Charleston,
and UNC Greensboro, all of which have traditionally
defeated Davidson in past Regional action.

Suzy Burr once again finished first for the Wild-
cats. Rookie Smyth Bitter had probably the best day
of anyone on the team and finished second, her best
result of the season. “

Allie Curran, Jill Neumayer, and Clare Frey
rounded out the top five for Davidson. Also entered in
the race were co-captain Kelly Keifer and Beth
Brewster.

Coach Thomas Cayson was satisfied with the
team’s efforts in Greenville, as well as with the entire
season. He stated that the team accomplished more
than he thought would be possible.

” The future is bright for the women’s team, which
will be returning all but one member of the team, and
will be retaining all of their depth up to the eighth or

. ninth spot.

Women’s team showing
steady improvement

Strange new rule eliminates service lets

He defeated Ryan Sacchire, the
No. |. player from Notre Dame, to win
one of the top two singles flights.
Sacchire was ranked 25th in the na-
tion, which will certainly improve
Pastel’s national status.

“T think he will have a good sec-
tional ranking and a strong national
ranking,” Frank predicted.

Davidson’s opposition included
Notre Dame, Duke, William and Mary,
UNC, and Michigan.

Four of those teams were ranked
in the nation’s top 25.

Blue-Gray highlights slate

Playing tough competition has
always been one ingredient to Frank’s
success. This year’s schedule will be
no different. .

Davidson’ biggest event will be
the Blue-Gray Invitational in Mont-
gomery, Ala., March 19-21. That
field will feature three of the top teams
in the nation.

“It-is a once-in-a-lifetime
chance,” Frank said of the event, ‘‘es-
pecially in Jon’s senior year. He de-
serves that opportunity.” ... A new
rule should spice up the action this
spring.

In an attempt to curb cheating
and speed up play, Division I men’s
tennis will not have service lets.

“It’s a strange rule,” Frank said.
“The kids are adjusting better than the
coaches.”

The new rule means that a serye
that hits the net and barely rolls over
will now be an ace if it can’t be re-
turned. :

It also sets up a virtual overhead
for the returner if the ball takes a high
bounce off the net.

“It certainly does make it excit-

-ing,” Frank said.

By Jay CANTRELL

Sports Editor

The fall season has given the
women’s tennis team a target for next
spring: East Tennessee St.

The Wildcats met the Buccaneers
in two of their three tournaments this

Women’s Tennis

Notebook

fall. The Bucs have bolstered their
lineup with three foreign players.

“ETSU

will be the
leader,”
Wildcat
c.oach
Caroline
Price said.
But the
Wildcats
“have some
new faces as
well.

“Two
Tw strong
freshmen have emerged for us,” Price
said of Kristin Koenig and Brenna
Tindall.

Koenig, a Shelby, N.C., native,
has had an immediate impact by jump-
ing into the No. 2 singles spot. She
made it to the finals of a tournament at
Washington and Lee earlier this fall.

“She will be a strong candidate for
freshman of the year,” Price said.

Tindall has played in both the No.
5 and No. 6 positions.

“Brenna has had an outstanding

@ Casner

_fall,” Price said of the freshman from

Fort Collins, Colo. Tindall will chal-
lenge juniors Claire Cheatwood and
Clara Marks for a starting job when
they return from their studies abroad.

In their absence, senior Lynne
Shore was forced to move up to the
fourth singles position. Shore will most
likely play No. 6 in the spring.

“T have tremendous experience at
six with Lynne,” Price said. Shore won
the conference championship last sea-

son at No. 6. This year, she and fellow °

senior Creecy Chandler are the cap-
tains.

The top of the singles lineup will
include returning No. | player Dana
Casner. Koenig will play No. 2, fol-
lowed by Amber Bradford at No. 3.

The doubles lineup is still some-
what of a mystery.

“It really is wide open at two-and-
three,” Price said. ‘

Casner and Koenig will join forces
at No. 1. Price will experiment with
several possible combinations for Nos.

2 and 3.

Casner, Koenig stand out

The first tournament for the Wild-
cats this fall was at the North Carolina
St. Invitational. Casner finished fourth
after losing to the top player from Rice,
who was the No. 1 seed in the draw.

“She lost that in a solid match,”
Price said.

Koenig was in the same draw as
Casner, and she finished right behind
her teammate in fifth place.

The next stop was at Virginia Tech,
where Casner finished third.

“We were able to see a lot more
Southern Conference members,” Price
said of the event at Blacksburg, Va.
“That allowed us to get an early read
(for the spring).”

The conference champion will
likely come from a pool of teams in-
cluding ETSU, Chattanooga, Furman,
Georgia Southern, and Davidson.
Marshall will not be able to defend their
title because the Thundering Herd left
the league to compete in the Mid-Ameri-
can Conference.

“Our challenge is to perform con-
sistently,” Price said. “We have to have
all six singles and all three doubles
teams performing consistently at a high
level.”

The third tournament was the most
successful for the top two Wildcats,
with Casner again finishing in the top
four, and Koenig advancing to the fi-
nals. ‘

“Tt allowed us to continue to work
against ETSU,” Price said. “Kristin
lost in a strong performance against
ETSU’s No. 1 player.” ... The team will
jump. right into competition next se-
mester. The Wildcats open the season
in Atlanta the weekend of Feb. 3 against
Georgia Tech and Tulane. The confer-

ence championships will be played in
April.
