THE DAVIDSONIAN

Winner of 14 Academy —
Awards among best films ever

By NaAresH NAGELLA
Associate Editor

I did not see “The English Patient”
until it came out on video and only after
it won 14 Academy Awards.

I sort of resented the movie be-
cause I thought “Jerry Maguire” was
snubbed and I really did not want to see
a threehour movie in which the main
character is an invalid burned beyond
recognition.

But I just could not avoid never
seeing the film which garnered the sec-
ond-highest amount of Oscars in film
history (Gone with the Wind is first) and
I decided to view the film over Fall
Break.

I can now honestly tell you that
The English Patient — which plays in
the 900 Room Thursday and Friday
nights — is one of the best movies you
will ever see. Lcan say that objectively
because the movie aims high and hits as
it masterfully probes explores the uni-
versal human verbs — live, love, suffer,
and die — better than any other movie
I have ever seen.

It starts with a glimpse of its ex-
otic, traditional, and excellent score —
part classical, part Hungarian gypsy —
which the filmmakers use perfectly in
reprise and plot development. The music
puts you into a trance-like, dreamy state
which the movie will not fail to con-
tinue. The story then begins at its end
— for the end is death and the story to
be told is of life and love — showing a
tiny plane piloted by Ralph Fiennes’
character, Count Almasy, silhouetted
against the expanse of the vast, empty,
beautifully picturesque Saharan desert.
It also carries his love — Kristen Scott
Thomas — and looks to be teetering.

The movie then quickly unites a
hodgepodge of survivors from the wan-
ing days of World War II. At the center
of the tale is Julliette Binoche, who
plays a Canadian nurse that decides to
care for the burnt, dying Fiennes in an
Italian monastery.

They are joined by an Indian Lieu-

tenant and bomb defusing expert,
Naveen Andrews, whom Binoche falls
in love with but is scared to get close to
since all her friends have been killed in
the war.

Next, a Canadian/American thief/

army officer, Willem Dafoe, joins their
group determined to solve the mystery
of the events that led to having his
fingers cut off.

The main love story centers around
Fiennes’ and Scott-Thomas’ torrid and
tragic love affair. Fiennes excellently
radiates a slick, coiled passion for his
desert obsession and Thomas plays her
role in a seductively brittle way.

One of the best parts of the movie
is watching Fiennes slowly unravel for
he is arich man who has built a closeted

life exploring the African desert and

closing his heart to most other passions.

War does not bother him. But he
can not avoid the allure of Scott-Tho-
mas and, as their sexual and cosmic
attraction flares, their romance invigo-
rates the otherwise desolate, barren
desert. (I can not believe I just wrote’
that sentence, but, hey, it’s true.) Any-
one who has ever had an intense crush
or infatuation can easily understand the
agony of Fiennes’ dilemma for he is a
man who ravenously lets his obsession
get the better of him — dooming him in
the end. He should have won the Acad-
emy_ Award for his performance.

This main romance lets one of the
film’s bigger themes — love’s resil-
iency and the power of passion — spin
off to other characters. Andrews’ char-
acter arrives from an Indian culture that
frowns upon open love and shies away
from the romance that involves.

Yet he and Binoche soon begin to
understand their mutual attraction, for
they both long to experience a fruitful
love and that’s enough. Dafoe’s char-
acter learns of the secret that caused his
debilitating injury and his planned ven-
detta turns into a show: empathy and
understanding. In this movie, wherever
love can go, it does — and infectiously
fills an air otherwise polluted by the

Highly-acclaimed ‘English Patient’ to play in 900 Room

@ Count Almasy (Ralph Fiennes) runs across the picturesque Sahara Desert in |
“The English Patient,” which plays this week in the 900 Room.

smoke of war.

One of my favorite aspects of the
movie, though, is that its characters are
flawed, regular, and represent the indi-
viduals affected by a war in which na-
tions are at stake. Fiennes plays his
character remotely and abruptly. Scott-
Thomas can seem rather selfish and
mean. Binoche is definitely not glam-
orous or too smart which allows her
innocence and suffering to win you
over and seem more real.

I bet if this movie were a more-
formulaic Hollywood film (which usu-
ally suits me just fine — but some
variety is nice), Fiennes would have not
just be a cartographer but, instead, a
famous ace-fighter pilot who under-
goes a miraculous plastic surgery after
his burn. He.would then end up marry-
ing Scott-Thomas as he saves her in
some large-scale battle in which he
single-handedly kills a squadron of Nazi
soldiers while liberating some country
under German rule. Instead, the movie
has a simplicity that amazes consider-
ing how effective it can be.

The English Patient makes no men- .

tion of the Hitlers, Mussolinis,
Churchills, or Roosevelts that directed
the war. Politics is not really men-
tioned. Nations do not matter so much
for our main characters. They are en-
joined in a catastrophic tale in which
they can find or seek a certain human
fellowship and understanding — war
making victims and sufferers of them
all. .

Accordingly, The English Patient
is a celebration of all that is individual
and human—things which could seem-
ingly get along just fine if ephemeral,
questionable forces like nationalism did
not get in the way. The movie’s title and
its ultimate, gut-wrenching irony deals
with this theme. The movie hints that
humans can be magical together, but we
stupidly ruin it.

A measure for any good piece of
art is whether it lets you understand or
it lets you cope. The English Patient
does both of these, for it teaches and
heals as love, which no one can ever
destroy, prevails. This movie is one for
which you thank Davidson for giving
you the education which lets you under-

stand it different ways, however.

I do not usually buy the critical
acclaim of films, dismissing it as hyper-
bole, but, when Richard Corliss of Time
magazine says of Thé English Patient:
“This, you realize with a gasp of joy,.is
what movies can do!,” he is right.

I think it struck a cord with critics
and the public because it actually
achieved what its produces called it —
the status of an “intimate epic” — a
movie that tugs at all your. personal
feelings and is still vast in nature and
subject.

I praise the movie this much and
only saw it on video where the sweep-
ing camera shots and the epic nature of
the film do not get the justice they
deserve. So if you have not seen it, this
week gives you a chance to avoid the
trip to Blockbuster and enjoy the film at
an optimal level.

It won’t return to the big screen
anytime soon, so everyone should go
and see it as it plays Wednesday and
Friday at the Union.

It is definitely worth the relatively
low price of admission. Grade: A+

Promising poet and former
Davidson returns to campus

By Dominick TALVACCHIO

Guest Writer

Sudeep Sen, according to one critic, is “intent.on
being heard without raising his voice.”

Such was the case on Wednesday afternoon in
the 900 Room, where Sen read to an audience that
collectively represented the span of his career: former
professors, old classmates, and budding poets.

Sen, an Indian poet who writes publishes exclu-
sively in English, was an International Scholar at

Davidson in 1987-88.

His busy life finds him dividing his time between
Delhi and London, and Davidson warmly welcomed
him back to read from his recently published collec-
tion of poems titled Postmarked India, which contains
new poems and selected pieces from each of his eight

previous publications.

One of these, The Lunar Visitations (1990),
actually began as a project written at Davidson under
the direction of English professor Tony Abbott.

Nothing but grey light filtered through the high
windows of the 900 Room during a reading that even

Sen called “morbid.”

Sen need not apologize, though, for his self-
confessed inability to create a himorous poem that

does not “fall flat on its face.”

Rather, the heaviness of his poetic voice left his
listeners mesmerized in the silence following each

poem.

tragedy.

at once.

The struggle to unfold the complex layers of his
identity is Sen’s prevailing poetic object. There is a
singularity in his circumstance that might render even
a post-colonial reading of Sen’s poetry inadequate.

My given task, upon entering the 900 Room, was
to appreciate Sen’s reading doubly: Both for me and ~
for a friend unable to attend. It was not difficult.

Sen, in both his power of observation and in his
ability to translate observation into poetry, has a
remarkable eye for detail, taking very seriously
Flaubert’s notion (quoted in Postmarked India) that
“poetry is as exact a science as geometry.”

Sen gives rigorous attention to the formal aspects
of his poetry, as he took time to explain on more than
one occasion the structural underpinnings of his work.

His rigorous treatment, though, is often of rou-
tine objects: A walk through New York streets (in the
New York Times, Abbott’s favorite poem of Sen’s),
a phone conversation, a knock on the door.
unique power of composition turns the average into
the sublime, the real into the absurd, the everyday into

Sen’s themes touch the philosophical, political,
and cultural dimensions of his life. Throughout it all
one can hear the conflicted sense of his poetry in, if
nothing else, the strong Indian accent in which he
speaks beautifully crafted English sentences.

Sen seems to find himself not somewhere be-

tween the East and the West but, rather, in both places

Reynolda Trio plays for 19

By Wes.ey H. GoLDsBERRY

Sen’s

Arts & Living Editor

The Reynolda Trio, a musical ensemble from Wake Forest University, played in Hodson
Hall last Monday.
The group is comprised of Marlene Hoirup (piano), Mark Hartman (violin), and Selina
Carter (cello).
The program consisted of Mendelssohn’s Trio No. 1 in d Minor and Brahms’s Trio No.
2 in C Major.
When the trio took the stage at 8:07 p.m., they were greeted by the loudest ovation that
the 19-member audience could muster, in what may have been the most poorly attended recital
in Hodson Hall’s 36-year history.
Hoirup was the most impressive instrumentalist of the three, having received her master’s
degree from Juilliard. Her performances of both the Brahms and the Mendelssohn were
commendable.
Despite his awkward posture, Hartman delivered a brave performance. His statuesque
appearance made him look more like a fiddler than a classical violinist. Although his tone was
weak, he exhibited'respectable intonation and cleanliness, which was all the more astonishing
considering his stiff, unpolished appearance. The quality of his performance steadily increased
throughout the concert.
Carter, a cellist in the Winston-Salem Piedmont Triad Symphony, showed admirable
talent. Her lack of volume inhibited her performance, but with the aid of a better instrument
the deficiency could have been alleviated.
The most frustrating aspect of the concert, by far, was the miniscule crowd size. Not only
did the number of fans in attendance begin at a measly 19, but the throng had diminished to 15
after intermission and to 12 by the end of the show.
Granted, the performance was of semi-professional caliber at best, which undoubtedly led
to the dwindling attendance. Most concerts of this sort benefit from a reasonable amount
faculty and student support, whereas this performance was seen by a grand total of three
students and no professors (with the exception of Dr. Botelho in the sound booth).
The. poor attendance may have been partly caused by a profound lack of advertising.
Although the Reynolda Trio’s performance fell short of stellar, they definitely deserved

more than the tiny shalterings: of sole = they were fated to receive.

yaa
