Past Inaugurals

A Brief History of

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

Inauguration
a success

By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

Just as the balloons are still sus-
pended in the air at the Commons, so
does the inaugural air remain on cam-
pus. Keeping with the spirit of the
inauguration of Davidson’s 16th presi-
dent, Bobby Vagt, it is appropriate to
reflect on past presidential inaugura-
tions covered by the Davidsonian.

Cunningham, president from 1941-
1958, was the first to be reported by the
Davidsonian.

Cunningham was inaugurated as
the 12th president of the College before
over 100 representatives from other
colleges and universities, much in the
same fashion as President Vagt’s inau-
guration.

The Davidson Band led the long
procession to the tune of “Pomp and
Circumstance” on Saturday morning,
Oct. 18, 1941. The entourage formed
along the walk between the Eumean
Literary Hall and the Philanthropic Lit-
erary Hall. This year’s inauguration
also noted the societies’ historic role

The inauguration of Dr.John Rood.

with their active participation in the
inaugural exercises.

Dr. Lingle, a Davidson leader, re-
viewed the qualifications of a Davidson
President. He must be a Christian gentle-
man, a scholar, and a good business-
man, Lingle said. He must also possess
leadership, be able to “get along with
faculty,” and have the ability to pro-
mote good relations between the Col-
lege and the Church.

Cunningham accepted the vows of

inauguration that were reflective of the

time period. These concerned a belief

in the Scriptures as the word of God, the
teaching of discipline in the Presbyte-
rian Church, and the acknowledgment
of his Christian duty to the College.
Accordingly, “The Church College and
Tomorrow” was the topic of
Cunningham’s Inaugural Address.
Following Cunningham and the
interim president Dr. Piet¢npol,’ Grier
Martin became the 13th president of
Davidson. The former treasurer and
business manager of the College, Mar-
tin advanced to the presidency in 1958.
The appointment of Martin was unique
in that he was not a minister or educator.

Inaugurations differ, stay the same

“We are convinced that Grier Martin
isthe man for the job,” Dr. J. McDowell
Richards said, “although he does not
fit into any of the preconceived ideals
of a Davidson College president.

In its report of the selection of
Martin, the Davidsonian noted that
“he is not a minister and has no impres-
sive string of academic degrees.. .but
ability has a way of making itself evi-
dent.” ,

Although there was no formal
account of the inaugural proceedings
in the Davidsonian, the inauguration
followed tradition, complete with
speeches from distinguished scholars
and former alumni.

Dr. Samuel R. Spencer, Jr., be-
came Davidson’s 14th president on
Oct. 11, 1968. Spencer’s installation
service broke with the usual pattern
for a presidential inauguration.

“It will be a simple installation
service, in place of a formal inaugura-
tion,” Spencer said. But Spencer set
the tone in his own way by challenging
the class of 1972 to “give a damn.”
Surely, President Vagt -expécts the
same from today’s students.

Inauguration from page 1

trustees, institutions of higher learning, and academic
associations, gave Vagt a series of Presidential greet-
ings.

As self proclaimed “poet laureate,” SGA Presi-
dent Buster Burke composed a poem-in honor of
President Vagt’s inuguration:

“In the halls of Little and the BSC, at the track
and union that are to be, in classrooms and the Cham-
bers lobby, stands half man half cat, a thing called
Bobby.”

Vagt’s acceptance address will not be soon for-
gotten, as he urged students to work on instituting
their ideals through a constant process of questioning.

“T liked his speech because he doesn’t want us to
live in the Davidson bubble,” freshman Jessica
Blackburn said. “He doesn’t want us to be cynical, yet
he wants us to be aware.”

Having already established an esteemed reputa-
tion as a leader in the college: community, Vagt
apparently has much to offer through his creativity
and compassion. :

After hearing his address, freshman Dan Lewis
said, “I want to get to know him.”

“IT was impressed with his speaking ability,” said
senior Katie Parker.

After the inauguration, the audience attended a
luncheon on the lawn in honor of President and Mrs.
Vagt.

Overall the inauguration was successful and con-
cordant.to Vagt’s style. “It was a worthy experience
for all,” said freshman Tony Murono.

Thanks to everyone --
Trustees, Faculty, Staff, and
students -- for making
October 3", the Inauguration
of our 16" President, Robert
F. Vagt, a wonderful day in
every way. We were all part
of history-in-the-making.

Leland M. Park, ‘63

Inauguration Coordinator “Emeritus”

d/b/a Library Director

Paid for by the Ghost of Olde Chambers Committee.

Into the Streets ‘97

October 25" - November 9¢h

