The SGA voted Tuesday to allo-
cate $700 from its special projects
fund to help finance the Films
Committee’s presentation of this
spring’s African-American Film Fes-
tival.

Assistant Dean of Students and
Director of Minority Student Affairs
Ernest Jeffries also pledged to aid the
Committee by allocating as much as
$200 from the Dean of Students Of-
fice budget.

The African-American Film Fes-
tival marks the third- annual spring
festival in a line which has included
the Women’s and International Film
Festivals in the past.

Chair of the Films Committee
Jenny Nolan said that, in the spirit of
the spring festivals, this was the next
logical step.

“We put on the festival with the
intent of bringing people and_ their
experiences together,” she said. “We
hope many will be enriched by this
spring’s film festival.”

Nolan wrote to 24 organizations,
imploring them to lend even minimal
support to the Festival. So far, SGA
and the Dean of Students Office are
the only organizations who have re-
sponded favorably — or at all—to her
request.

The Committee still needs ap-
proximately $2,100 to cover bar, tech,

African-American Film Festival

publicity, and shipping costs. Film
reels typically cost between $250 to
$550.

A list of films was generated by
the Committee and narrowed to 10 by
Assistant Professor of History Bar-
bara Ballard. The selection was then
finalized by the BSC Special Events
Committee.

Films onthe schedule for the Feb-
ruary festival include “Malcom X,”
“Rosewood,” “Secrets and Lies,” “The
Color Purple,” “Daughters of the
Dust,” “Shaft,” “Love Jones,” and
“Friday.”

The films will be shown during
the weeks spanning Feb. 8-20. Speak-
ers will facilitate discussion after sev-
eral of the films, including Dean
Jeffries following “Love Jones.”

Nolan pointed out that it would
be easy for the Films Committee to
offer blockbuster or independent films
exclusively, but she hopes that by
branching out, she can lend even more
validity to Union programming and
further campus enrichment.

“We need visible campus sup-
port for the Festival,” Nolan said. “It
educates and challenges the commu-
nity to address the issues we’re aware
of, but perhaps don’t confront on a
regular basis.

“The Festival embraces solidar-
ity and learning.”

Jessica GOODSON

Davidson College
Police Blotter

department.

Johnston Gym.

cut with electrical tools.

stadium.

Campus police holding snnea aber ret bicycles

Over the course of this semester, campus police have picked
up numerous unregistered bikes across campus. Although many
of these bikes have been claimed, almosta dozen remain with the

Lt, David McLaurin asks that any student who left his or her bike
unregistered and has found that bike missing to please come and
inquire about it in the campus police station located behind

Circuits cut to Richardson Field, cops point out
strange connections

On Nov, 5 at 3:35 p.m., the valadine circuit feeder wires were
These wires are located along the’
stadium‘s main tunnel and gate access area and power the key-
card locks to the id auipceela and other ssnereilners devices inside the

- Southern Bell was called out to find ond fix the problem.
Estimation of damage stands at $100.

_ This crime seems to be more than just a simple get-drunk-cut-
stuff crime, considering the power wires to.a Jackson Court office
were cut in a very similar fashion on Oct. 23.

| 202 So. Main St. * Davidson
[coupon exeites 4/31 WS

emcee anauenaagy enn casame “e ensanite eenaaannne RNIAREAS inten eS

SEES

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

The advertisements read, “‘Sexual
Etiquette’: Dr. Robert Hatcher, director
of the Family Planning Clinic at Grady
Hospital and co-author of Contracep-
tive Technology, gives a frank, humor-
ous talk emphasizing healthy sexuality
and responsibility to oneself and one’s
partner.”

Students and employees of the
College filled most of the seats in the
Union 900 Room last Monday evening
to hear the Emory professor speak for
the second time that day.

After an enthusiastic introduction
by Eleanor Hatcher, Robert Hatcher
began his speech with a brief summary
of his background. A Williams College
graduate, Hatcher has been teaching
“Sexual Etiquette 101” seven times a
year for 18 years to Georgia-Tech stu-
dents. He then progressed to his.mes-
sage.

“Sex is a big, big deal,” Hatcher
said. “It’s also a very tough subject to
talk about.”

Silence about the subject, how-

Hatcher speaks on ‘Sexual Etiquette’

ever, can lead to what Hatcher referred
to as “the four H’s”: HIV, Hepatitis B,
herpes, and HPV, or human te ua
virus.

HPV, Hatcher said, is ; like the
chicken pox. Since the virus is always
present, it can recur years later. HPV
is also a known cause cancers of the
cervix and penis.

A method of preventing cancer,
Hatcher said, is to take birth control
pills. Taking the pill regularly helps
prevent cancers of the ovary and en-
dometrium (the lining of the uterus),
and deters the formation of benign
masses in the breast and non-func-
tional ovarian cysts.

Hatcher also extolled the virtues
of condoms, saying, “Condoms really
do work.”

He cited a study of prostitutes,
who showed a lower rate of sexually
transmitted diseases than the general
public because, according to Hatcher,
they have fewer instances of unpro-
tected sex.

Each method of contraception has
advantages and disadvantages, though,
cautioned Hatcher. “Figure out if it’s

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1997 __

good for yee or not so good,” he ad-
vised.

Hatcher answered a question from
the audience on Morning After Pills
(MAPs) by handing out informational
sheets on both MAPs and Emergency
Contraceptive Pills (ECPs), which in-
cluded a phone number to find clinics in
a specific area where these are avail-
able. (MAPs and ECPs are not avail-
able directly at the College except
through referral.)

Birth control pills and Intrauterine
Devices ([UDs) can also be used in
place of MAPs and ECPs if need be,
Hatcher said.

Hatcher later showed slides of case
studies, contraceptives, and quotes, in-
cluding a statement that said, “The erect
penis has no conscience.”

He closed by reciting Robert
Frost’s “The Road Not Taken.”

“Wherever you’ ve been sexually,”
Hatcher said, “I hope you take the road
less traveled, sexually.”

Hatcher advised the audience to
tell the truth, to always use protection,
to avoid infections, and “never to use
force in a sexual role.”

First lecture deals with status of women

By Jessica GooDSON
News Editor

Robert A. Hatcher, MD, MPH,
Professor of Gynecology and Obstet-
rics at Emory University: School of
Medicine, delivered a lecture entitled,
Next Century the Status of Women Must
Improve: Why Not Now, to an audience
mostly comprised of pre-med society
students. In Monday’s lecture, he con-
veyed his belief that “the major repro-
ductive health problems facing the world
will not be solved in the century ahead
unless the status of women improves.”

His speech revolved around three
points: improvement of reproductive
health should be:a top priority, this is
contingent on the improvement of
women’s status, and if contraception is
preferable to abortion in preventing
unwanted pregnancies, women must be
educated about contraceptive options.

Through a series of case studies,
Hatcher illustrated his points, as well as
the inferior status of women world-
wide. In each case the woman’s right to
choose was compromised, resulting in
unwanted. pregnancy, transmission of
sexual diseases, and sometimes death.

In one case, a gynecologist in Jor-
dan would not insert a contraceptive
device because the female patient, al-
though she had three. children, had no
sons: the valued sex in that country. She
was condemned to unwanted pregnancy
because she had not borne a son for her
husband. In another case, Hatcher re-
lated the story of an HIV negative
woman in Zaire who was part of a
Center for Disease Control study of

discordant couples (her husband was
HIV positive). She was advised to con-
sistently use condoms and suffered
physical abuse from her husband as a
result. She returned to the clinic with
one eye swollen shut. and: multiple
bruises and lacerations. Within 6 months
she was also HIV positive.

A third case involved a mother of
5 in Atlanta who wanted a tubal liga-
tion. Her husband, in accordance with
Muslim religious law, denied her re-
quest. She subsequently performed a
self-abortion by injecting air into her
uterus. Her daughter found her dying in
the bathroom.

According to Hatcher, although
they were educated about contraceptive
options, these women’s subordinate sta-
tus precluded their right to make repro-
ductive choices. Many women are sim-
ply not as knowledgeable about contra-
ception. ,

, Hatcher promoted education about
the use of contraceptive pills (the “morn-
ing after” pill), and the post-coital IUD
as effective emergency contraception.
He also cited the progesterone secret-
ing IUD, monthly injections of estro-
gen and progestin, a vaginal microbi-
cide which kills STD agents including
HIV and chlamydia, and RU 486 (the
abortion pill) as “exciting contracep-
tive prospects for the years ahead.” He
added, however, that “our major repro-
ductive health initiatives can’t succeed
until the status of women does im-
prove.”

“While new methods will help, we

need to use the methods we have,” said ,

Hatcher. “Male methods now (condoms

and vasectomy), are actually the very
best options in my mind. They are actu-
ally better than the options for women
and they must be called upon more and
used more.”

According to aretrospective study
conducted by acolleague who surveyed
the Brothel Association in Nevada, only
1 in 829 condoms break. In a prospec-
tive study, there were zero condom
breaks in 350 acts of vaginal inter-
course.

Vasectomy, however, is the only
contraceptive method for men which
guarantees 100 percent effectiveness.
Whereas a tubal ligation (female steril-
ization) has a failure rate of 5.3 percent
in the ten years following surgery for
women under the age of 30, absence of
sperm in the semen following vasec-
tomy can be periodically confirmed.

Hatcher challenged the audience

to facilitate the improved status of

women by actively advocating for
women, making career decisions to con-
tinue work in the field of family plan-
ning, and considering how they could
get men to utilize the male methods at
their disposal.

Hatcher said that women should
get the power in making choices about
their reproductive health, and that a
doctor must be willing to let them make
a mistake. The point, he- said, is to
educate a patient, but never to talk her
out of what she really wants.

“The new source of power is not in
the hands of the few, but in the educa-
tion of many,” quoted Hatcher. “If
women are going to gain more power,
men are going to have to give that
power up.”

Unannounced, unappreciated visits by
ALE perturb students, administrators

Alcohol from page 1

and will have their licenses revoked by the
Department of Motor Vehicles.

“I don’t believe that ALE is neces-
sary or productive on Davidson’s cam-
pus,” the student said. “Nothing good can
come from their presence. I believe col-
lege is a transition in many respects, such
as the law. College students make mis-
takes from time to time.

“With campus police officers, these
mistakes can be corrected with no serious
consequences to one’s life. When state
officers are on campus, the possibility of
offenses on your permanent record can
occur. Most of the things that happen on

" this campus aren’t worth such a harsh

punishment.”

Students have also cited that ALE
officers seemingly undermine the respect
of Davidson’s own campus police offic-
ers. They ask how patrolling this campus
could influence the rate of alcohol-related
accidents when drinking on campus ef-
fectively discourages drunk driving.

Another student who was fined $80
for possession of alcohol said, ““We’re on
campus, we’re not driving anywhere.”

She was crossing the street when a
plain-clothes, ALE officer confronted her
at 9:30 p.m. on Friday, Oct. 10. He cited
the cup in her hand and its potential con-
tents as probable cause for stopping her.

“The whole episode was absurd,”
she said. “There are drunk drivers on the

road that they should be pulling over.”

After hiring a lawyer, her case was
dismissed, although the magistrate sug-
gested she complete some community
service.

Thrower said that when ALE origi-
nally came to Davidson, they informed
him that they would be patrolling the area.
He asked them to alert him of future
patrols, but they have not contacted him
since their first visit to campus.

As of now, Thrower has no proof
that ALE has been on campus recently.
He is asking anyone who has been written
up within the past three weeks to contact
campus police or see him in person so he
can look at the citation and take note of the
ALE officers involved.
