THE DAVIDSONIAN

"Women: ’s soccer posts

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. — It looked
like 1992 all over again. Davidson goal-
keeper Allie Noznesky led her team to
a 1-1 draw against Furman Tuesday
night in the first round of the Southern
Conference tournament. The game was
decided on penalty kicks to determine
which team would advance to the semi-
finals.

Noznesky did her best impression

of Alex

: Deegan as
Wildcats 1 she saved
Furman 1 four out of
five pen-

; alty kicks

N.C. State 4 to lead her
Wildcats 1 squad to
the semifi-

als

LUNGG ~ 4 against
Wildcats Ol une

Greens
boro. ‘

“Nobody touches the master,” said
Noznesky of the Wildcat legend who
led his team to the Final Four in 1992 by
making incredible penalty-kick saves
in the early rounds.

After Kelly Rennick was ejected
with her second yellow card, the Wild-
cats played most of the overtime peri-
ods with only 10 players. With that
advantage, Furman. assaulted the net
but could not get the ball past Noznesky
for the win.

In the shoot-out, Noznesky saved
four of five kicks to set up the fifth and
final shot for Angie Boyer, who put the
ball past Paladin keeper Jen McNutt to
clinch the win.

The Wildcats started the game
without starter Natalie Stumpf, who
injured her knee in the 2-1 loss at Furman
less than a week earlier. Furman outshot
Davidson 10-5 in the first half, but there
was no score at halftime.

The Wildcats came out with asurge

of intensity to start the second half.
They outshot the Paladins 12- 7 in the
second stanza.

At the 54:29 mark, Rennick re-
ceived her first yellow card for dissent.
Less than ten minutes later, her room-
mate Amy Balsinger had a chance to
put the Wildcats on top.

Rhina Roberts was fouled inside
the penalty area, giving Davidson a
penalty kick. Balsinger’s kick hit the
crossbar and went out of play over the
goal to keep the game scoreless.

With seven minutes to go in regu-
lation, Kate McKnight gave the Wild-
cats a 1-0 lead when she sent a 25-yard
shot over McNutt and off the crossbar
on its way into the net. ;

But the Paladins countered in the
final seconds, as Leah Versteegen scored
a controversial goal to send the game
into overtime.

“It was not in,”
goal.

“IT was a foot away from it. It was
notin. This just shows that we can come
back after a bad call like that.”

With the help of Rennick’s ejec-
tion the Paladins outshot the Wildcats

said Boyer of the

in the overtime periods. Noznesky made ,

save after save to keep her squad alive.

“She was awesome,” said Boyer.
“She’s the best keeper in the Southern
Conference and we know it. We prac-
tice penalty kicks on her. We know if
we can put goals in against her we can
do it in the game.”

That’s exactly what Boyer did on
the fifth Davidson penalty kick of the
shootout. Freshman Carrie Porath
scored the other Wildcat goal on the
first attempt.

But Noznesky stole the show. She
saved the first four kicks, and had to
overcome two consecutive calls by the
referee that gave Diana Poore another
chance to score. Each time Noznesky
made the save.

“I thought I (moved early) on the
first one,” Noznesky said of the calls. “I
didn’t think I did on the second one.”

“That is a lot of adversity there,”
said coach Kevin Hundley. “That's up
there with Deegan in the NCAA tourna-
ment back in ‘92.”

“It’s been a tough year,” Hundley
added. “It’s nice to have a good feeling
(after the win).”

But Wildcats fall to nationally-ranked Spartans in semifinals

game 9-0 to take the title in their first
year in the Southern Conference.

Ali Lord scored at the 8:05 mark
as she cashed in assists from Kati
Kantanen and Shannon Carey.
Davidson goalkeeper Allie Noznesky
deflected the original shot from

Will Brads aw

@ Amy Balsinger defends Spartan star Kati Kantanen
in Saturday’s semi-final action at the lower soccer

field.

“This is the way we could have
and should have been playing all year,
but we’ ve just had some bad luck,” said
Boyer.

“We have a tradition in the tourna-
ment,” said 'Noznesky, “and I'd like to
keep it going.” ;

No one had been able to stop UNC
Greensboro’s potent offense during the
regular season, and Saturday’s semifi-
nal against Davidson was no different.

The Spartans scored three second-
half goals to defeat the Wildcats 4-0 and
advance to Sunday’s championship

‘game against Wofford. UNCG won that

Kantanen, but Lord found the loose
ball and sent it into the net for the 1-0
lead.

The Wildcats had their chances at
the end of the half, as Amy Kanoff
made several corner kicks in the final
minute. But Davidson could not con-
vert, and the Spartans led 1-0 at the
half.

UNCG’s offense put the game
away in the second half as Danica
Baker tucked a 25-yard shot into the
side of the net at the 59:28 mark to give

the Spartans a 2-0 lead.

“We wanted to strike back after
going down 2-0,” said Hundley, “and
when we didn’t, we really could not do
anything but score a token goal.”

Kim Rosenberg increased the Spar-
tan lead on a free kick at 68:39, fol-
lowed by a Kantanen goal at 73:31 to
secure the 4-0 victory.

This final score was the closest
game of the tournament for UNCG.
They crushed East Tennessee St. 11-0
in the first round and won the champi-
onship 9-0 over Wofford Sunday.

. The Davidson-N.C. State game
was scheduled in the middle of the
Southern Conference tournament, and
all season it was unclear what purpose
it would serve.

Unclear, that is, until Tuesday’s
game at Furman, when sophomore
midfielder Kelly Rennick was ejected
in the 96th minute after receiving her
second yellow card of the game. Rennick
would have-to sit out-the next-contest,
but because of the abnormal schedul-
ing, she did not have to Sit out a tourna-
ment match.

But Rennick’s presence was
missed Thursday, as North Carolina St.
defeated the Wildcats 4-1 in their final
game at Richardson Field. The
Wolfpack struck quickly, as Jane Walton
scored at the 9:17 mark to give State a 1-
0 lead.

The Wildcats held them to that
score until there were just 37 seconds
left in the half, when senior Stacey
Hampton notched the Wolfpack’s sec-
ond tally to give them a 2-0 halftime
lead.

Davidson’s goal came at the 73:15
mark as Leila Wormuth made a diving
shot to cash in a loose ball in front of the
goal.

The game was technically the last
home match for senior captains Allie
Noznesky, Amy Kanoff, and Kelly
Schmidt. Each player was honored be-
fore the game.

“We will miss something from all
three of them,” said Hundley, who gave
flowers to his captains prior to kick-off.

Noznesky approaches Deegan’s level

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

GREENVILLE, S.C. — Goal-
keeper Allie Noznesky saved four out
of five penalty kicks in Tuesday night’s
shoot-out victory over Furman in the
first round of the Southern Conference
tournament: She had tomake three saves
against one Paladin player because the
referee called her for leaving the goalline
too early not once, but twice. It meant
she had to make three saves to get credit
for one. If any of the three had gotten
past her, the referee would have ignored
the call and given Furman the goal.

Davidson’s Alex Deegan set the
precedent for saving penalty kicks in
1992 when he saved five out of 10 shots

against Coastal Carolina in the second
round of the NCAA tournament. The
Wildcats went on to the Final Four that
year. “
“Nobody touches the master,” said
Noznesky after: being compared to
Deegan after Tuesday night’s game.
Despite her incredible performance
at Furman, she was not selected to the
AllConference team this season. Coach
Kevin Hundley explained that the Wild-
cats’ strong schedule may have hurt his
goalkeepers chances. The league’s

.coaches cannot vote on their own play-

ers, and they tend to pick players based
largely on statistics alone. “They get to
see one game (against opposing play-
ers) and then see the stats,” Hundley
said after Saturday’s loss to UNC

Greensboro.

With an easier schedule,
Davidson’s players could build their
statistics and improve their chances of
making the All-Conference team. Nev-
ertheless, sophomores Kelly Rennick
and Ginny Dye were second-team All-
Conference selections. Both players
made all-conference as freshmen as
well.

Thursday’s game against North
Carolina St. was the last game at
Richardson Field for the Wildcats’ se-

nior captains. Noznesky, Amy Kanoff, °

and Kelly Schmidt were honored be-
fore the game. “They didn’t go out with
a championship, but they won three,”
Hundley said of the seniors’ three South-
ern Conference championships.

One shining moment for women’s soccer

Fall Classic from page 16

taunted the Wildcats.

Downaplayer, they were bombarded
with shots throughout both overtime peri-
ods. But, as she had done in so many post-
season games, Noznesky rose to the occa-
sion, making five saves in the first 15-
minute stanza, one from point-blank range.

In the next segment,: she tipped a
speeding bullet over the crossbar with
eight minutes left and then stopped an-
other one-on-one attempt in the final two
minutes.

The winner — a misnomer, because
the game is officially recorded as a tie —

would be decided on alternating penalty

kicks. Noznesky was Deegan-esque when
she saved four of the five kicks.

One kicker had three chances to score
because Noznesky moved off the line too
early. The referee made this bold call not
once, but twice. Noznesky had to make
three saves just to get credit for one.

Up 1-0 going into the fifth and final
round of kicks, Furman’s Christina Franks
put the ball into the lower left corner of the
net to keep the Paladins alive. McNutt,
who had been quite stellar herself on this
magical evening, would have to stop Angie
Boyer to send the shootout to sudden-
death.

But Boyer also put it out of reach in
the left corner, sending the Wildcats to the

semifinals. Her teammates raced to meet
her as they celebrated a well-deserved
victory.

This contest had been a microcosm
of their entire season: A controversial
goal in the final seconds, an ejection of an
all-conference player, two saves that were

" negated by the referee in the shoot-out.

But through it all, the Wildcats never
stopped fighting. They played through
pain and adversity. They survived, and
earned the right to advance.

It was only fitting that the loud-
speakers played the theme song from
ESPN’s SportsCenter as the Wildcats cel-
ebrated one of the most memorable
Davidson soccer games since 1992.

GREENVILLE, S.C. — “Iwo hours of soccer could not decide a winner,
so Davidson and Furman had to sweat through a penalty-kick shootout to
determine who would advance to the semifinals of the Southern Confer-

ence tournament.

_ Furman kicked first, with senior Liz Bielefeld sending a shot to the left
side of the goal. Davidson goalkeeper Allie Noznesky dove to her right to

make the save.

The Wildcats sent freshman Carrie Porath to take their first shot.
Paladin keeper Jen McNutt guessed wrong and watched as the shot went

into the right side of the net.

Furman freshman Diana Poore was stopped by Noznesky, but the

referee called for a re-kick because Noznesky left the goalline too early.
Again, Noznesky made a save, and again she was called for leaving too
soon. Poore tried for a third time, but Noznesky stopped her yet again and
the referee complied. ,

Kate McKnight came up next for the Wildcats, She sent a shot wide
to the right, but the referee had not blown his whistle to signal that McNutt
was ready in the goal. So she tried again and McNutt made the save.

Furman sent another freshman, Sarah Tollick, up against Noznesky for
its third kick. Noznesky made a diving save to her right to preserve the 1-
0 Davidson lead.

Amy Balsinger, who missed a penalty kick in regulation, was stopped
again as McNutt dove to her left for the stop.

Rather than go to. Noznesky’s.right for the fourth time. in a row, Tracy
Austin of Furman sent a shot high and up the middle. Noznesky leaped up
and tipped it over the crossbar.

Senior Amy Kanoff approached the ball next. A goal would clinch the
victory for the Wildcats, but McNutt made a diving save to her left to keep
the Paladins alive.’

Senior Christina Franks needed to score to stay in the game. Again,
Noznesky dove to herright, but this time the shot was too accurate and the
score was 1-1 with one shot left.

Sophomore Angie Boyer waited several moments before McNutt was
finally ready: A goal would end it. A save would send the shoot-out to
sudden-death. :

Boyer endedit by sending the ball into the lower left corner of the goal
and her team into the semifinals:

Jay CANTRELL

