THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

MONDAY, APRIL 7, 1997 7

“How do you motivate a generation to care about an issue ...
they would not know what it was like not to have?”

Weddington

from page 20

back the walls of prejudice, stereo-
type, societal attitudes, came to-
gether at that particular moment.
And I think that we were energized
by the fact that there were so many
of us who felt the same way.

Ithink today it’s almost harder,
because while there are some people
who still really focus on women’s
issues, most people would say that
there’s nota big problemnow. There
are problems, but they are not as
clear-cut as they were when you
talk about the ones we were dealing
with—rape laws that made her char-
acter the issue, that told women
they had to resist to the maximum
extent possible—there were so
many things that were so wrong,
that it was the issue of our time.

JS: That’s such a good point, that
our times are such a more subtle
environment. Do have any instru-
ments that you think are key right
now?

SW: First, when I think about young
women, I think most young women
in their college years don’t have
anyone say to them, “Well, you
can’t be a doctor, you can’t be a
lawyer, you can’t be an astronaut or
whatever.” I think the discrimina-
tion comes intwoforms,

One is still the fact that young
women have a dip in their self-
esteem when they enter the teenage

years. Men do too, but theirs isn’t
as dramatic, and they bounce back a
lot faster. So I think young women
tend to feel self-conscious about
their bodies, and to feel their bodies
are imperfect, and that they’re go-
ing to be judged on their bodies; we
have major problems with anor-
exia, with bulimia, and other eating
disorders which are rooted in
society’s advertising and in lots of
images showing that a woman is
judged by her physical being—and
that is a form of discrimination. We
need to work on that.

Second, I think that there’s still
alot of pressure on young women to
be sexually active, even before they
may want to be. SoI think some of
the issues of date rape, etc. are very
much there. And then I think when
women get out of school and have
their first job, they are likely to hit
the form of discrimination that is
sexual harassment. I [used to] hear
a lot of women saying, “What did I
do to cause this?” and what we had

‘to come to realize was that that

young woman hadn’tdone anything,
that it was people in positions of
power who saw her as vulnerable,
and were simply hitting onher. And
I think it still happens. I’m worried
that young women are beginning to
say again, “What did I do to cause
this?” Well, they’re the recipients
of that power disparity. In the mili-
tary, we’re certainly hearing a lot
about those issues of gender dis-
crimination.

Then you have the glass ceil-

ing ,which is a short-hand way of
saying that it seems in a lot of pro-
fessions, women get to a certain
point, but can’t seem to break
through. Unfortunately, many
women are hitting middle manage-
ment, middle positions of responsi-
bility at the same time that corpora-
tions are downsizing. Sothere aren’t
as many vacancies for women.

We’ve had a lot of progress in
politics, a lot more women elected,
but still, if you look at the Senate or
the House or any legislative body or
the number of governors, women
are by and large missing, even
though they are 53% of the popula-
tion. So we still have a lot to do in
terms of politics.

I think there are a lot of issues
that relate specifically to women,
and then I think there are a lot of
issues women care about, which are
societal issues.

J: I think that’s also evident in the
electoral races this past November.
There was a lot of talk about how
much more women supported
Clinton, and notnecessarily because
of his stance on women’s issues,
but because his priorities ranged
from children, to health care, to
education — more issues that
women care about.

ML: Did you expect to win?

SW: I sure hoped to. I couldn’t say
I expected to win. There was no
precedent, except Griswold v. Con-
necticut, so you didn’t have any-

thing to say, “Well, I think this
judge will vote for me and this judge
will vote against me.” I was hopeful
of winning, but you can’t work that
hard, that long, without being hope-
ful. ButI wasn’t so sure that I didn’t
run for the legislature to be there
just in case. And the other thing
about that was I thought that even if
I won, it would be a closer decision.
The 7-2 vote was much stronger
than Ihad expected. I thought when
I got the decision that it had been
written in concrete, instead of in
sandstone, and a lot of the words
seem to me to be brushed away, or
lessened in their impact now.

One of the things I’m concerned
about — and I don’t know how to
deal with it — is the fact that of
course young college students to-
day don’t remember before Roe v.
Wade, they weren’t around. So you
can’t blame them, and say, “Why
don’t you have this passion about it
that we have!” They’ve had that
choice all their lives. And so for
them, it’s often more of an intellec-
tual issue. Is it the government’s
business? Or is it an individual
choice? But for us, it was so real,
because we all knew somebody who
had had an illegal abortion, or who
had had a really bad experience
with one, who had faced a preg-
nancy and agonized about it, or who
couldn’t find birth control. I mean
that_was_so, much a part of our
conversations and our experiences
and our friends.

The real problem forme — or
the issue or thing I’m trying to think

about — is how do you motivate a
generation to care about an issue
which has never been something
that they would know what it was
like not to have? Part of me says, “If
people have had the choice all their
lives, they’re not gonna give that
up.” Americans don’t give up a
right, once they have it. And then
the other part of me says, “Yes, but
it’s so hard now being a student and
so expensive, everybody’s worried
about graduate school, and all the
other things they have to do, how
can we get them motivated to pro-
mote, and to work, and to contribute
some time and effort on this issue?”
All I know to do at this point is to
write [my second] book, trying to
explain that background, encour-
age people to talk to their parents
and aunts and uncles and people
who were of that generation, and
then ask them to protect what they
have.

The speaking and the being here

is really part of that effort for me to
transmit. I wish I could do “com-
puter dump,” take everything out of
my head that I have about this issue
and give it to you all in a computer
dump. But since that’s not pos-
sible, I just try to get as much infor-
mation out as I can as quickly as I
can, and hope not that speaking for
one night gives you all the answers,
but that people will think more and
read more and study more and hope-.
fully come to the belief that the
government should not make that
decision and that they’ II realize that
we need their help to save it.

¢

The Dabidsonian is seeking to fill the
following positions for next fall:

Executive editor, News editor, Arts & Living editor, |
Copy editor, Web Page editor, Editorial cartoonist, —
Business manager, and Advertising Manager.

Submit resumes noting any newspaper or lay-out experience. Publishing experience is
helpful but not necessary. Experience with Aldus PageMaker and Adobe Photoshop also
useful. Those seeking editorial positions should submit writing samples as well.

Leave resume and samples in folder on the Davidsonian office door, on the third floor of
the Union, or email submissions to DAVIDSONIAN @DAVIDSON.EDU

If you have questions, contact Editors-in-Chief
Randy Hartwell and Teresa White — 2148 or via e-mail.

il

