MONDAY, MARCH 17, 1997

6 ' THE DAVIDSONIAN

The first revelations regarding
President Bill Clinton’s re-election
came about six months ago, before
the campaign had ended. However,
the allegations and defenses of
wrongdoing have not stopped com-
ing.

In the last two weeks, through
documents released by the Demo-
cratic National Committee, the
country has learned of new, ques-
tionable fund raising. practices.

First, it was found the Presi-
dent fully wanted and allowed do-
nors to get to stay in the Lincoln
Bedroom. Specifically, he okayed

for “overnights to start right away.”

Before, the President had de-
nied he knew of the specifics of his
fund raising tactics.

Next, Vice President Al Gore’s
role in the system was learned as the
documents and aids revealed he
made. fund raising calls from the
White House, or government prop-
erty.

Doing so is against a late 19th
century law that prohibited elected
officials from asking for donations
on federal grounds since govern-
ment officials might have been able
to gain special access to politicians.

Gore said he did not violate the
law since he used a Democratic
National Committee credit card. He
said the law had never been chal-
lenged or tested in court, so he could

“legally” do what he did.

He also said he was “proud of
whathe did,” but promised to “never
do it again,” since it could set bad
precedents.

Next,‘an FBI probe was re-
vealed that might indicate possible
efforts by the Chinese government
to gain access and donate money to
various candidates in all parts of
Congress.

The problem is that the dona-
tions might have come from a gov-
ernment initiative and not from dif-
ferent Chinese interests.

Still, any contributions from
foreign governments are forbidden
in U.S. political campaigns. It is
believes that the Chinese govern-
ment might have found veiled at-
tempts to donate and specifically
did arrange and subsidize trips for
politicians to visit their country.

It was also found that parties
can return the favor by channeling
money and help into foreign cam-
paigns. They each gave $4.1 mil-
lion in tax dollars to set up institutes
in foreign lands for ideologically
similar parties.

Many public interest watch-
dogs state that foreign money (1%
of the total contributions) is not the
problem, but that special interest
contributions are far worse.

Meanwhile the Republican
party hosted a program for their

ELSEWHERE

Campaign finance scandals continue —

$100,000 or more donors with Sen-
ate Majority leader Trent Lott stat-
ing, “(private donating) is the
American way.”

Only 3 of the 55 Republican
senators have signed on to the
McCain-Feingold campaign finance
reform act that would ban soft
money.

Democrats cited that while their
abuses of the system have been more
public, it is because the Republi-
cans have fewer problems raising
money from their traditional busi-
ness allies. The DNC noted that the
Republicans spent over $600 mil-
lion in the last campaign, while
Democrats spent only over $300
million. They state all these prob-
lems and negative incidents could
be avoided with full public financ-
ing of campaigns.

President Clinton’s approval
rating still hovers around 60% none-
theless, indicating the public does
not care as much about the “pos-
sible” scandals and more about his

_ performance in his office.

Finally, the Senate has finally
appropriated the funds for a Con-
gressional investigation into the
wrongdoings. Enough money was
allocated for both parties’ races to
be looked into now. Before, it looked
as if only the President’s campaign

would be scutinized.
Sources: New York Times, USA Today

niet

‘ond Davi

Viarch 16, 19

International ...

Albania in “complete anarchy” :

The tiny Mediterranean country of Albania (pop. 3.5 million, GDP per
capita $1,100) has lost most sense of law and order as citizens have
taken arms against the government, and specifically the President Sali
Berisha, for not protecting them in failed pyramid schemes that
recently collapsed, bankrupting most of the nation. People have taken
torandom shooting and violence while demanding government action
to help them. Marines have had to evacuate Americans there and to
combat gunfire in the process. They have retalliated against some
Albanians when necessary. Other European nations have also evacu-
ated their nationals and the European Community is considering what
to do next. Albania was a hardline Communist country for most of the
Cold War and, like some other Eastern European countries, is strug-
gling with instituting capitalism. A decision regarding that is how
much of capitalism to allow. The Albanian government believed that
an unchecked market would work best and so did not insitute strong

regulatory checks to the schemes that have crippled their economy.
Source: NYT

National ...

President recovers from his ‘fall’

President Bill Clinton is doing better after having surgery to repair a
torn tendon he experienced after falling from stairs in golfer Greg
Norman’s home. He was going downstairs in the dark and slipped
where he thought there was a step. He moved to adjust his foot, but a
loud “pop” was heard since the movement was so sudden. He will
undergo six months of therapy after which doctors expect he will
regain full use of his leg.

Source; NYT

Local ...

Hornets owner might buy coliseum

Charlotte Hornets owner George Shinn might buy the Charlotte
Colliseum if he does not get a new one in downtown. The Charlotte
city council is strongly against providing tax payer money for the new
arena. They want Shinn and business leaders or at least season ticket
holders to foot a large part of the bill. Shinn says he needs a new arena
to stay competitve in pro basketball. If he buys the arena, then he will
receive profits from all its programs, concessions, and parking money.
Source: Charlotte Observer

THE Crossword

Elections

Sign-ups for SGA Class Senators and Honor Council positions
will be today through Thursday in the Dean of Student’s
Office. Elections will be held Monday, March 24.

ACROSS Tt le Pp I 6 Wa faz 13
1 African nation
5 Portals » [14
10 Word of sorrow
14 Excellent 7 Ne
15 Cove
16 Ear section pall BS ed AB es
17 Silent
18 Landscape
19 Boxing match 26 27 29 30 31
20 Gorilla
22 Occupants 34
24 Notable period
25 Certain jellied ie ty
gamish rc) a
26 Grower of
vegetables
30 Reducedthe | ‘a bb
speed
34 Pub drink :
35 Frighten SS [56 |57 Se kag id
37 Rub out
38 Distance : La
measure C7
40 Les —Unis
42 Abstract being 71
43 Happening
45 Serpent © 1996 Tribuhe Media Services, inc.
47 Danson or All nghts reserved.
Tumer
48 Certain dog 8 Leases ANSWERS
Fi shale 9 Soaks
levate 10 Tuna HD) BOD AOE
54 — and order 11 Diving bird TO AOD AO
55 Coorerve 3 ecares! viAlolN Ml a(tlalvis fe vialulv
"5 VS
58 Man-made collections tte tL |
channels 21 God of war MV 31S) tiie
62 Amount of 23 Egyptian SIN/al1isii | io Mulajsisiais
space waterway HER OOD AO
63 Furniture piece 25 Putin order 3/S|S|3MeSiilviiia aiTiilw
65 Changing star 26 Monopoly and EREIRZCIE? EVCIRARIES ENRIRA
66 Fasting season rummy, @.g. G/a/M/0/1/S Me) aiN| aiaiulvio
67 Plumed bird 27 Existing ~ dltidis\viviula
68 Ireland 28 Lease again Sjaln(vin(a[a Mi alalviol ial
Ml 20 Dies 1{nfolaM aln|alols Mm a[1 [nim
quander LA
71 Strikeout - 32 Germancity [2/10/71 MMalalain|s Bi alwlolv
33 Heroic actions (SIVIIVES|ulololaMmalvixH{o
DOWN 36 And others: Lat.
1 Vacation spot abbr.
2 Time of day 39 Plea
3 Against 41 Frying pans 51 Braided 58 Luge
4 Judged 44 Duck 53 Actor's milieu 59 Center
5 Extentof space 46 Son of Isaac 55 Bundie 60 Wicked
6 Single time 49 Uprising 56 Angered 61 Sensible
7 Mexican cheer participant 57 Flex 64 Bikini top -

ow ee OS OP ODS SSMS RE SHS OCC S Ce

