2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws.

' TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1997

International opportunities at Davidson
Dean Rusk and Career Services sponsor four-week seminar

By Liz NEIHEISEL:
Staff Writer

The Dean Rusk Program, in col-
laboration with the Davidson Career
Services Office, is currently sponsor-
ing a four-week seminar series on inter-
national career and service opportuni-
ties.

The series, now two weeks under-
way, focuses on preparation for and
information on career opportunities in
international fields in both the United
States and abroad. The initial lecture on
Oct. 9 drew 42 students to the Union
Home Room, where Ambassador Ken
Brown of the Dean Rusk program spoke
on openings in service and other gov-
ernment agencies.

Last week’s lecture on Oct. 16
welcomed Dr. Anne DeLattre of the
Organization for Economic Coopera-
tion and Development (OEDC) and
Laura Jones of the Refuge Office of

Charlotte to speak on their experiences
with economic development in non-
governmental organizations (NGOs).

Future seminars will introduce
Attorney Michael Almond of the Char-
lotte law firm Parker, Poe, Adams, and
Bernstein to lecture on International
Law, and newly inaugurated College
president Bobby Vagt to speak on Inter-
national Business.

The International Careers Services
series is the joint creation of Assistant
Director of Dean Rusk Eleanor Hatcher
and Assistant Director of Career Ser-
vices Tony Butchello.

“We wanted to collaborate to bring
a program to those students who may be
considering an international career,”
Butchello said in a recent interview,

Hatcher and Butchello began plan-
ning the program last semester in Feb-
ruary after attending an international
conference at UNC Charlotte. The pro-
gram is directed towards those students

who have interest in one of four main
career clusters: foreign service, inter-
national development (in non-govern-
mental agencies), international law, and
international business. The series is an
effort to prepare students earlier for a
career on the international scene.

Rough statistics from the Career
Services and Study Abroad offices sug-
gest that approximately 10 percent of
recent classes spend the first year fol-
lowing graduation overseas, while over
50 percent of each class spent at least
one semester studying abroad during
the Davidson career.

“In my day-to-day dealings with
students, I find a good proportion that
want to work or do service abroad,”
Butchello said. “The International Ca-
reer Service series is a proactive re-
sponse to this growing group of stu-
dents.”

International career interest at
Davidson generally focuses on service

work and development, teaching, busi-
ness, or foreign policy.

Thursday night’s speakers, draw-
ing from vastly different personal and
professional experiences, achieved all
the series’ goals by providing informa-
tion and advice on securing a future in
the international world.

DeLattre, who has spent nearly 50
years with international agencies, has
been involved with both professional
and political institutions, concentrating
her efforts in the field of third-world
economic development. While
DeLattre identified education, includ-
ing undergraduate work in Economics
and a more specialized Ph.D., as the
most vital tool of preparation, Jones
focused on the hands-on approach.

Both speakers gave due merit to
working overseas in the field and the
need for a multilingual background.
The experiences of both, and the con-
nections made abroad, are often key in

securing employment and successive
promotion. DeLattre cited networking
as the most common entryway to this
field of work, whereas Jones, who be-
gan her career at the French embassy in
Washington, D.C., pointed to local non-
profit organizations as an entry level
opportunity.

However, DeLattre and Jones both
noted the importance for a personal
commitment and desire to serve when
working in such a field. While many
jobs are geared towards administration
and policy-making, most non-govern-
mental agencies exist to serve the needs
of other people.

“Sometimes the weight of interna-
tional bureaucracy grows heavy, and
the point (of your work) is lost in the red
tape,” DeLattre said.

The International Career Services
Series meets the last two Thursdays of
October at 7:00 p.m. in the Union Home
Room.

Davidson
College
Police Blotter

Dwayne Hendricks
spotted in the area

After a stellar performance in
early September in which he as-
saulted a librarian, a Davidson stu-
dent, and college faculty, local
psychopath Dwayne Hendricks Is
back.

Hendricks recently managed
to steal two cartons of milk froma
Huntersville grocery store, then pro-
ceeded to wander out into the
parking lot, open both cartons,
pourthem simultaneously onto the
asphalt while doing a little jig. He
also wandered onto campus last
week at 2 a.m., raving as usual. -
“This guy has something clinical,”
Sergeant David Harding of Cam-
pus Police said. “If any student
sees Hendricks at any time, they
should call 9-911 immediately.”

Wallet stolen from
Belk dorm

Awallet was reported missing
by a freshman in Belk Sept. 25. The
freshman apparently left his wal-
let, containing $35 in cash, in an
inviting place on a table near the
door of his room sometime early in-
the week. - 2

oN, the ‘bles the —— was

‘was eiclen from bike tacks in front
pe Little. The bike was valued at
700,

{Ajgo stolen was a Roadmaster
Mountain Climber, reportedly
worth $90, which wasleft unlocked
on the Union Patio Sept. 19. Ten
daysiater, pion nscale

Sentelle fire alarm raises questions

Students complain about newly-installed dorm row gates

By Mary-ELIsE BRUMFIELD
Staff Writer

Imagine: it’s after 2:00 a.m. on a
Wednesday night — or Thursday morn-
ing — you're standing in the middle of
your dorm room, gazing bleary-eyed at
your bed. You’ ve just spent five straight
hours struggling with a set of math
problems for your Calculus class and
laboring over Political Science.

And now it’s definitely time to go
to sleep. You're so tired you can just
hear your bed calling to you. So you
snuggle under the covers and close your
eyes. And just as you are starting to
drift off into dreams, the fire alarm goes
off.

That is exactly what happened in
Sentelle three weeks ago when the fire
alarm was accidentally set off. Called a
“trigger alarm” because it was acciden-
tal, it went off in Sentelle a little after

2:30 a.m. on Sept. 25.

Sentelle residents were less than
pleased with the late hour of the alarm.
As junior Shannon Howland put it, “2:30
in the morning is not cool.”

The town of Davidson’s fire en-
gines arrived on the scene soon after the
alarm sounded. But instead of taking
the little road by dorm row, they drove
across the lawn in front of Chambers to
reach Sentelle.

Why? Josh Glazer, a junior and
volunteer fireman, explained that the
fire engines always drive over the grass
to get to the buildings on dorm row.

The fire engines could easily break
through the gates if they had to, he said,
but it is too difficult for the big trucks to
maneuver in the narrow confines of
dorm row.

“It's better, faster, safer, and easier”
for the engines to drive across the grass,
he said. This route. gives the firemen

better visibility and gets them closer to
the fire hydrant.

Glazer added that the trucks don’t
hurt the walkways leading to the dorms
from Chambers.

Sergeant David Harding from
Campus Police confirmed that he was
not aware of any problem with the gates,
and said that the fire trucks were too
wide to drive comfortably down dorm
row.

When asked about the original
purpose of the gates at both ends of
dorm row, Glazer said that they were
built primarily to stop the flow of traffic
along the narrow road.

Traffic on dorm row, he said, has
been a safety hazard in the past. The
gates were installed early in the school
year to keep all vehicles out of dorm
row except police cars, ambulances,
and physical plant trucks.

But, as an anonymous source said,

“I really don’t see the point (of the
gates) because you can easily hop the
gates and drive up the curb.”

Concerning the Sentelle fire alarm
itself, Glazer confirmed that it was a
fire alarm and not a drill.

He said that all of the fire drills that
have been scheduled in the past month
have taken place between 6:00 p.m. and
7:00 p.m.

Any other time the alarm has gone
off, it has been a trigger alarm, like the
one in Sentelle.

“The alarm in Sentelle goes off
more than any other alarm in the dorms
up the hill,” he said. “It needs work, and
should be looked at.”

But Glazer was emphatic that no
one should take any of the fire alarms
lightly.

“T want to tell all students to treat
fire alarms as real,” he added, “because
there could be a real fire.”

Wicker ponders politics in the near future

By NaresH NAGELLA
Associate Editor

The James Batten Visiting Profes-
sor in Public Policy, Thomas Wicker,
gave a lecture entitled “2000 and Be-
yond: Politics and All That” Oct. 9th in
Chambers Gallery.

Wicker, a Pulitzer Prize winning
author and former New York Times
columnist, centered the speech on what
he believed could happen on the na-
tional political scene in the years ahead.

Initially, however, he warned the
audience about the problems of such
prognostication, stating his efforts were
“mainly speculation” and that he has
been wrong before.

Also, Wicker said, “The only thing
you never really know is who actually
wins.”

“We should see lots of candidates
for the year 2000 because there is no
incumbent,” Wicker said regarding the
2000 presidential race. “And, in our
primary system, almost anybody can
run, television makes obscure persons
be known quickly, and the national

(party) conventions are not contested.”

On the Republican side, Wicker
predicted Jack Kemp, Dan Quayle,
George Bush, Jr., William Weld, Fred
Thomspon, Lamar Alexander, and Steve
Forbes would be some of the candidates
to run.

Wicker did not discount the mod-
erates in this race, stating that “wing (of
the Republican party) can still be alive.”

On the Democratic side, Wicker
sees Al Gore, Richard Gephardt, Bob
Kerrey, Jon Kerry, and Bill Bradley as
candidates

He sees the Democrats’ biggest
problem as being able to attract a televi-
sion-friendly candidate. He believes
many of these front-runners will have
difficulty in giving speeches and clearly
connecting with the broader American
public.

Wicker sees the biggest issues
during the election as being, “taxes, the
deficit, crime and punishment, and the
environment.”

Overall, Wicker hopes to see
change in our political system.

“We just let things go as they are,”

EARN $750-$1500/WEEK

Raise all the money your group needs by sponsoring a VISA
fundraiser on your campus. No investment & very little time needed.
There’s no obligation, so why not call for information today.

Call 1-800-323-8454 x94

he said. “We need to fix our (problems)
now before they get worse later.”

Specifically, he cited his fears that
the social security program would not
be available for future generations of
retired workers.

Wicker also said the excessive
price of campaigns might distract our
politicians from putting all their energy
into doing their jobs.

He mentioned how senators had to

spend three nights a week raising money
for themselves and other nights cam-
paigning for their party. ®

The Batten Professorship honors
the memory of alumnus Jim Batten,
Class of 1957, former executive editor
of the Charlotte Observer and presi-
dent, chairman, and CEO of Knight-
Ridder Inc. Wicker will give one more
public lecture tied to the professorship
this semester.

College Relations S

@ Wickeremphasizes a point during a recent seminar.
