THE DAVIDSONIAN

12 interesting reasons why going to

Davidson is like flounder fishing

was fairly excited when my friends
asked me to accompany them to
Long Beach for Fall Break. This was
going to be my first visit to Snoop Dog’s ghetto
— you can
imagine my
excitement.

To say
the least, | was
disappointed
when we ar- :
rived at Long Beach, N.C., not the LBC I was
longing for. Soon I came to the sad conclusion
that there are no rappers in this Long Beach
except for Scooter Magooter, but we'll get to
him later.

Anyhow, it turns out that my buds had
kept the real purpose of the trip a secret until the
end. Only when we jumped in a boat outfitted
with nets, lures, rods, and reels was I informed
that we were going to fish for the entire duration
of fall break. So there I was, stuck in a salt-
stained dinghy without my Puff Daddy or my
B.LG.

In total, there were nine of us —

\

nine
worthless anglers. [ guess we were a rap group
after all (NWA — get it!) This number, how-
ever, does not include our two worthy guides
Johnson & Johnson. According to them, there
ts only one fish worth catching —- the flounder,
“That's the skinny fish!” [ said, nudging

the nearest mate, as if [knew what I was talking
about. Johnson & Johnson exchanged looks,
communicating subconsciously the obvious fact
that | was a moron. ;
Nevertheless, | managed to conquer my
seemingly insatiable desire for the soulful tunes

of 97.9 on the FM dial. Johnson & Johnson
became my mentors, and I emerged as their
little fishboy apprentice. Slowly Llearned the
how to catch bait, how to
navigate the skiff, how to jig the rig (or gig the

tricks of the trade:

jig orrig the gig, or something like that), how to
drink a warm beer while fishing, and most
importantly, how to eat a processed sandwich
while fishing. By the end of the trip, [knew my

flounder, and I knew it well.

Looking back on it all, I can’t help but
notice parallels between my flounder appren-
ticeship and my experiences at Davidson. There
are just too many eerie similari-
ties that exist. Therefore, | must
elaborate on the 12 reasons why
going to Davidson is like floun-
der fishing. I'm talking morals
here, so pay attention.

1. You could fish all
day and not catch a damn thing. I can sit with
a book in front of my face all day and not
comprehend a single thesis, theory, sentence,
word, etc.

2. Some flounder are spotted. Yes, even
some students at Davidson are spotted, not
because they have been swimming near the
nuclear power plant, but because they are re-
ally, really sick with consumption or because
they are leopards.

3. The locals are nimrods, Laugh at them.
Scooter Magooter, a lifelong Long Beach resi-
dent, did not speak any form of English that I
was personally familiar with, but he had a
particular fancy for cussing. At Davidson, the
locals are just as crazy. We have strangers
roaming the campus, threatening students, ask-
ing librarians if they are the Antichrist. It
doesn’t get any funnier than that.

4, If you're bored, you can always catch
crabs. Here, you might catch them without
even knowing tt.

5. A lot of fishermen are fakes, pretend-
ing to be knowledgeable about something they
are not. At Davidson, we have sports editors
who think they know what it is like to be a
Division I athlete.

6, Flounder scale their prey tail-end first,
slowly climbing up the bait’s body. [read the
end of my assigned novels first, because [don’t
have the time to start at the beginning.

7. When you've got a flounder on your
line, you can’tafford to give itany slack. When
someone calls that I don’t like, | have my
roommates tell them that Iam asleep.

8. If you accidentally catch a small shark,
you can smash his head on the concrete and use
his stomach as bait. At Davidson, people “ac-
cidentally” buy packs of cigarettes and take
them to parties to give to freshman girls.

9. Don’t take your shirt off unless you
plan on getting burned. Nobody in their right
mind would sign up for Literary Criticism with-
out knowing that their brain could very well
swell and explode from a syllabus more taxing
than life under British colonial rule.

10. While fishing for flounder, it is help-
ful — perhaps even necessary — to have a net
with which tocradle the Leviathan before bring-
ing it inside the sailing vessel. I always con-

gratulate myself on my decision to call the BTI -

people and tell them that my address was really
somewhere in Nevada, and that they could send
all of my ridiculous phone bills there if they
wanted anyone to pay them.

11. If someone is taking a picture of the
flounder you caught, you can make it look
bigger by holding your catch closer to the
camera. Buy a magnifying glass. Wait for a
good grade on a paper or a test. For some, this
wait could be a week or two; others might hold
out several years before getting that cherished
C-. Anyhow, take that paper or test and hold the
magnifying glass up to the letter itself. Isn't that
neat?!

12. If the flounder is less than thirteen
inches long, then you are obligated by law to
throw it back. At Davidson, if you buy one
Coke out of the machine, but get two, then you
are obligated by law to give the second one
back.

Well, there you have it, a fishmonger’s
guide to Davidson. [| must admit that I am
honored to bring into the foreground this knowl-
edge before any of my contemporaries.

It would only have been a matter of time,
you see, before another ichthyophile attempted
the same. Thus, my transformation from
Snoop’s leash to the fish nouveau riche is com-
plete. Who caught the biggest flounder? I did,
of course.

eta Sean

A new form
t seems to me that my senior year in
college is a lot like the middle school
years all thrown together. _

I think I’m going through some new
stage in puberty, and it’s still awkward,
where I don’t know if I’m cool, don’t know
if I wear the right clothes, don’t know if I
have the
lr ight
friends.

Allthe
things that
seem to ap-
ply to a 15-
year-old looking around for his buddies at
a football’ game seem to also apply to a
senior looking around for his damn future.

I went home over fall break and my
parents and I had some pretty serious dis-
cussions about DUN, DUN, DUN, DUNNN
— my future.

“What am I going to do?” is the same
question that you would ask yourself six or
seven years ago —“AmI, like, cool?” And
I know, I have battled with that question all
my life, but am I cool enough to get a job
with somebody that will actually pay me to
be there? .

That's like saying to the middle school
kid, “Hey, you can come play with us!”
The kid’s eyes are all aglow because he’s
going to be hanging out with the cool kids
around the Eastside. And they always had
the sex-ed talks back then telling everyone
that we're all different and that we mature
at different times.

The same goes for job counseling and
Career Services, and they're saying the
samething — “your resume will work for.

But it’s really not as good as some
others and notas bad as some others, just as
you really weren't as big as Jimmy or had
to wear deodorant like Danny. Where do I

fitin? All you really want to do is be with

Buster contemplates his future

. tall in eighth grade.,

of puberty

‘everyone else and have jobs and money and
security and not have to say “I’m living at
home — I wasn’t cool enough — I didn’t
wear the right clothes (in other words, Ba-
nana Republic and Hard Rock Cafe T-
shirts, jeans jackets with buttons, and jel-
lies are replaced with grey suits, conserva-
tive shoes and ties, short hair
for everyone) so I didn’t get

a job,” and buckle down in

fury and frustration and make

sounds of agony!
You can draw a lot

__ of parallels between zits and
grades — at least for some of us. They
blemish you at the eighth grade dance, and
they blemish you when looking for a job
and you squeak out, “My GPA’s, uh, 0.8,
sir.

Zits and grades can both blow up, and
the worst is when you know they're going
to be bad, but you can’t do anything about
it except wait to see just how bad it’s going
to be.

Although home is nice, I don’t think
that any of us want to be living there after
graduation rolls around. It’s kind of like
hanging around at home on a Friday night
in years past when everyone else was out
having fun.

Itis different in that we all don’t want
jobs, whereas back then we all wanted to be
“mature-looking.”

But whatever we want, I think that I
can safely say that we all want something.

Some want to go on and study, some
want to hit the working world running,
some want to postpone a few things, but we
all want something, just as we all wanted to
have some cool friends and not be three feet

Puberty’s the worst, but I guess it’s
not as bad the second time around; particu-
larly since it’s fresh in my mind from last
year.

THE URBAN PLUNGE: EXPERIENTIAL LEARNING

Urban Plunge raises more

questions than it answers .
48 hours on the street a humbling experience

ccording to a packet the National

Coalition for the Homeless gave

our group, an Urban Plunge is:

“When economically-privileged people

dress down, empty their wallets, and spend
time on the streets as ‘poor’ people.”

Anyone can

read this sentence

and draw their own

conclusions as to

few brief ideas at a time, a few brief ideas
that only scratched the surface of my total
experience.

I had wanted to say how the Urban
Plunge changed me, but I become more
frustrated as the process of recollection

wears on. I try to
illustrate what I
went through —
what I learned —

the validity of that
statement. This
brief definition
does not encom- ;
pass the ultimate purpose of the plunge,
nor why I spent my fall break homeless in
Washington, D.C.

Lcouldn’t relate to nagging-hunger,
constant fear, social skepticism, or need
ona most basic and intense level. Ineeded
to see the “other” side. I needed to see the
looks, the stares, the questioning eyes, the
shame. I needed to experience the harass-
ment, the cold. I needed in some way to
feel poverty, to feel homelessness.

If I thought I could have accom-
plished that any other way, I would not
have gone. But I decided that I could not
fill my need any other way.

That is why I went.

For two days, thoughts raced in and
out of my head, too fast to comprehend.
For two days experience, knowledge and
information came continuously from all
different directions — overwhelming com-
prehension. I felt alive the entire time, my
senses alert to all happenings around me,
incidents soaking through the pores in my
skin. I felt as though I was eating the
richest, most fulfilling food that life could
offer, and yet I could not get enough, I
became supremely self-aware,

But’ now, after two days back at
Davidson, the profound thoughts have
faded and with them powerful memories.
The experience hasn’t and never will fade.
How can I explain that in words? |

I tried several times during the two
days to reflect, but I found that I could not
write fast enough nor process my thoughts
clearly enough to put down more than a

how I found out
that I know so little
about life — to ex-
_ plain the impact
that putting faces and names with a severe
social problem had on me — to convey
everything.

I want to, but I-can’t.

Itry toexplain, but I remember things
I missed as I speak to my hallmates and
those who know I went. I try to go back,
to demonstrate the intensity through my
words and manner. But I cannot.

I say that my 48 hours humbled me.
I say that panhandling dehumanized me. I
say that I lost all previous identity, my
Davidson identity, my middle-class iden-
tity. But they did not go through it with
me, with us.

The Urban Plunge has made me ask
more questions than it answered. If I find
it hard to re-adjust after only two days,
how can society ask a man who has been
living on the streets for more than a de-
cade to readjust with the snap of a finger,
with the opening of adoor? *

I did not shave until almost a day
after I got back, nor did I put on deodorant.
That sounds strange. It is. However, I did
not want to lose what I had gained. When
I shaved and when I finally put on deodor-
ant, I cut the last physical reminders of my
experience. I relegated all events to the
past and into memory. I did not want to
lose what I had gained. I did not want to
lose what I had felt:

So I try to convey knowledge to you
with my words. And as you see the
frustration-wracked body and exhausted
eyes, I hope that you can now better un-
derstand.

he Urban Plunge became im
portant to me months before this
semester began.

This summer, I decided to, do an
urban plunge through the National Coa-
lition for the Homeless in Washington,
D.C., and I decided to make the opportu-
nity available to other Davidson stu-
dents.

As weeks passed, I found myself
question-
ing my
motives
and hear-
ing the
challenge
of friends
and family. What could be so valuable
about spending forty-eight hours living
homeless that it would be worth the risks
of street life? _

My plan was to write a concise and

well-packaged editorial after this expe-
] rience. Unfortunately, the experience
itself isn’t very packageable. I find that
no matter how hard I try, I am only able
to share a very small part
of my experience with

We are used to our books and our
lectures, our computer screens and our
four-walled classrooms, the academic set-
tings in which second-hand information is
poured into our minds.

Surrounding ourselves with wholly
new circumstances and people whom we
find to be very different from ourselves
spurs personal growth. Isn’t that kind of
expansion of ourselves central to the lives
that we share at Davidson?

I struggle to place
ona small section of news-
print that which I am still
actively sorting through.
However, in the midst of
the struggle to express the
value of such an out-of-classroom experi-
ence, the benefit emerges; the value of a
personal experience cannot be expressed
by the simple regurgitation of someone
else’s words.

It may be incredibly difficult to put
your finger on. A profound experience
cannot be placed in a simple category
such as “English” or “biology” or “art” or

From the books to the streets: Learning. |
doesn’t always have to happen in classroom

Taking a risk helps one understand

just returned to life on the streets after
spending several months in jail. She has
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, two
conditions that emerged or intensified
after the deaths of her husband and fa-
ther. What drives her from moment.to
moment is the next beer or bottle of
liquor that she will find.

She is well over twice my age, but
she acts like a small child. It seems that
she is not smart enough to keep herself
warm at night nor to eat when her body
needs food’s strength. If it weren’t for
the watchful eye of a homeless acquain-
tance, no one would be there to control |
her late-night convulsions due to de-
lirium tremens.

For me, this trip is about people and
the way individuals treat individuals,
whether or not they own the ground they
sleep on.

It is about everyone’s desire for
ownership of some amount of personal
freedom and power. It is about having a
sense of control.in your own life.

The issues that the Urban Plunge

addresses are much larger
than homelessness; like-

anyone. After so much
reflection, I can only in-
terpret.this as evidence of
the weekend’s value.

I quote from last
issue’s Op-Ed piece re-

“We cannot begin to understand homelessness
from watching the television news or making
peanut butter sandwiches at a soup kitchen.”

wise, homelessness is as
large of an issue or cat-
egory as “non-
homelessness.”

There are so many
assumptions about life

garding the Urban
Plunge: “You don’t have
to sleep on a sidewalk to
know that it’s hard.”

This was just one such statement
that seemed to advocate second-hand
experiences. I disagree wholeheartedly
with the writers’ statements.

You.will never know what the con-
crete of a sidewalk feels like unless you
have your own tactile knowledge of it.
Moreover, we cannot begin to under-

television news or making peanut butter

stand homelessness from watching the °

even “homelessness” or “poverty.”

I did not complete the Urban Plunge
with firm conclusions about the directions
that must be taken regarding homelessness.
I know better than ever the complexity of
the issues involved.

How do I reconcile the painful situ-
ation many individuals experience with
those experiences of the weekend that so
richly taught me — and continue to teach
me — about my own life?

We met Theresa, a grandmother who

that we never examine be-
cause we have held them
all of our lives. To place
ourselves next to those who live by a
different set of rules can remove our
unquestioned assumptions and give us
the beautiful freedom and urgency to
question what is important and why we
choose the actions that we do.

For me, this is the value of the
Urban Plunge. ;

Yes, it would have been much safer
had I stayed here for break. But safety —
physical, emotional, and intellectual —
isn’t always the best answer.

sandwiches at a soup kitchen.
