THE DAVIDSONIAN
Bert

RTS & Livinc
Davidson College Chamber Singers create magic at DCPC

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1997

Works by Byrd, Tallis, Britten, and Handel performed

By Erika RIssiNG
Guest Writer

To do justice to the music at the
Davidson College Chamber Singers’
concert this past Tuesday night, I need
more space, time, and‘ training.

For those of you who were not
there, you missed out on one of the best
treats of the semester.

The program included William
Byrd’s Laudibus in sanctis, Thomas
Tallis’ Hear the Voice and Prayer,
Britten’s Rejoice in the Lamb, and
Handel’s Let God Arise. Donna Di
Grazia, the DC Chamber Singers con-
ductor, led the ensemble in yet another
astoundingly professional perfor-
mance—if you closed your eyes, you
could think you were listening to a CD
recording. And yet, to close your eyes
you would miss the visual beauty of the
performers’ faces, alive with passion,
in magnificent Davidson College Pres-
byterian Church. The Church, an acous-
tical blessing, rang with the reverbera-
tions of the full chords.

Not only did the twenty-seven
member ensemble have a wonderful
sense of pitch, but they also brought
intense emotional energy to the pieces.
Their precise technique—especially
their clear diction and clean cut-offs—
allowed the audience to appreciate this
emotional energy because of the ease
with which it was communicated.

The receptive audience was quite
large, including a strong contingent of
students, many faculty members, Presi-
dent Vagt andhis wife, and many people
from the community, especially from
the Pines.

Of the four pieces performed, the
first two were from the sixteenth cen-
tury, by Byrd and Tallis, respectively.
As the thorough program notes explain,
Byrd’s piece was ornamented with fre-
quent word painting, while Tallis’ more
simplistic compositional technique
made his piece equally accessible but
for a different reason.

In Hear the Voice. and Prayer,
Tallis set one phrase of the text to one
musical idea, and then passed it through

each of the voice parts before moving
on the next phrase of the text. The
audience could easily follow the mean-
ing of the words. The Tallis was con-
ducted by Diane Krause, a member of
the Chamber Singers who is a Music
major and a current student conductor.
Again, the highly expressive faces
of her peers as they sang were almost as
beautiful as the angelic music that
poured from their hearts. Krause fol-
lowed in Di Grazia’s position of con-
ductor not only as a guide technically,
but also emotionally and spiritually.
The difference this guidance made was
felt in all of the pieces performed.
Benjamin Britten’s Rejoice in the
Lamb is a 20th century piece in which
Britten set the texts of Christopher
Smart, an eighteenth century poet. The
words are out of the ordinary, to say the
least, and yet they somehow add to the
splendor and power of the piece, even
though many of them need to be deci-
phered. The organ, played by Patricia
McBrayer, gave the piece a bigger,
grander sound as its presence filled the

Church. The Britten piece included
several contrasting sections: the initial
text is sung by the chorus, which is
followed by three solo sections, first
treble, then alto, and finally, a tenor solo
before the chorus’ next section. The

piece then concludes with a bass solo

which leads into the final chorus’ state-
ment. Each of the soloists—Samantha
Balsam (soprano), Jen Wilbur (alto),
Phillip Stewart (tenor), and Matthew
Nixon (bass)—captured the essence of
what they were singing and conveyed it
to the audience with great feeling.

The final piece, Handel’s Let God
Arise, included oboe, violins, celli, and
continuo, played by members of the DC
Orchestra and Neil Lerner, who played
the harpsichord as continuo in the Handel
and sang in the other pieces. The instru-
mentalists performed beautifully, shap-
ing their phrases, staying in tune, and
playing the first several movements with
profound musicality.

The group was led by Elizabeth
Parker, first violinist. Deanna Yard's
oboe playing was particularly notable,

with her graceful phrases soaring above
the clear yet warm string sounds of the
violins and celli. When the instrumen-
talists performed with the chorus, they
maintained a superb balance between
the singers and themselves.

The Handel’s solo sections in-
cluded a tenor, soprano, and an alto/
bass duet before the whole chorus sang
the last three movements. The solos
were sung with great control and yet, at
the same time, a great deal of feeling.
The soloists included Andrew Coates
(tenor), Kate Scibal (soprano), Jessica
Bigazzi (alto), and David Kang (bass).
Kang, a freshman who is multi-talented
in music, stood out with his deep, ma-
ture voice. All of the soloists were
exceptional, but his performance was
the most striking.

The music of the evening was true

" to its word: the performers gave them-

selves up to the music, to the passion
and the intensity of the composers’
works, and that magical miracle of true
music was shared by the performers
and audience alike.

Andy M. Stewart, Gerry O’Beirne, and Nightnoise play Love Auditorium

By Wes.Ley H. GOLDSBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

Most of the spectators at Wednes-
day night’s Artists Series concert prob-
ably weren't aware of their intrinsic
predilection for Celtic music. Many of
them had become veritable fans of the
genre by end of the show.

Singer-songwriters Andy M.
Stewart and Gerry O’Beirne and the
Celtic New Age group Nightnoise elec-
trified a packed house at Love Audito-
rium. Stewart and O’Beirne’s guitar-
driven folk songs entertained the audi-
ence for the first half of the concert,
with burgeoning legend Nightnoise tak-
ing the stage after intermission.

There were no programs handed
out at the door, which was a mild an-
noyance.

Stewart, a former member of the
legendary Celtic band Silly Wizard,
assumed an instantaneous entrancement

of the audience. He and his sidekick
took the stage wearing surprisingly ca-
sual attire, the capped O’ Beirne sport-
ing-a-mysteriously stoic countenance.
Both men displayed exceptional tal-
ents, Stewart the prominent vocalist
and O’ Beirne the prominent instrumen-
talist. The latter performed alternately
upon a twelve-string and a six-string
guitar — use of the twelve-string caused
a frenzy of foot-stomping throughout
the auditorium.

Stewart, with his shrill yet pleas-
ant Scottish accent, sung and told the
audience about traditional topics in
Celtic folk repertoire. Many of them
are love songs, a typical one of which
would involve a “lovely, unattainable
young woman,” said Stewart. The other
predominant topic revolves around
strong alcoholic beverages, which he
claims could be considered love songs
as well. He confessed that in his home-
land, whiskey is the “‘water of life,” and

’ that the drinking of it could be likened

to “Celtic jogging.” Stewart’s sense of
humor effortlessly flowed forth adjunct
with his glib repartee.

“That one had a happy ending,”
Stewart said after completing one of his
songs, adding that most Celtic tunes do
not usually end in such a tranquil man-
ner. “Otherwise, it wouldn’t be Celtic
music,” he concluded.

O’ Beirne, similar to Stewart, came
across as humble, charming, and amus-
ing. His song “Western Highway,” a
tale about his first road trip through
California and Oregon, highlighted the
first half of the show. His mellow voice
provided a welcome contrast from that
of his counterpart.

The duo performed the traditional
Irish jig “The Rambling Rover” for
their curtain call, spurring the audience
to clap along in unison with the musi-
cians. Andy M. Stewart and Gerry
O’Beirne’s songs, many of them hu-

morous without intention, easily gained
the crowd’s reverence. A rush of stu-
dents and community members flocked
to the lobby at intermission to purchase
CDs of the artists.

The headlining act, Nightnoise, had
a tough act to follow. They were com-
prised of Brian Dunning (flute, whistle),
Micheal O Domhnaill (guitar), Triona
O Domhnaill (keyboard), and John
Fitzpatrick (fiddle), a recent addition to
the band in replacement of legendary
Celtic fiddler Johnny Cunningham.

Nightnoise’s performance was
much less energetic than the first one,
although their music does tend toward
the calmer end of the musical spectrum.
The use of synthesizers contributed to
the ethereal nature of their repertoire.
The rhythmic complexity of their songs,
however, was invigorating.

The most striking visual aspect of
the performance was watching thick
clouds of rosin dust from Piepaeck s

@ Andy M. Stewart

bow float up into the lights above the
stage.

See Celtic page 8

Wahlberg and Reynolds share inside view of 70s porn industry

By Carrit Morris
Arts & Living Editor

To numb sexuality-and to-make a
dark farce of family life are the two
mistakes of the main characters ‘in
Boogie Nights.

Daphne Merkin of the New Yorker
says the movie “has to be the most
seductive, cautionary tale ever told.”
She has defined what it is about this
movie that does not make sense: it is
“seductive” as its slinky glitter pulls

 @ Burt Reynolds as Jack
Horner

you in, yet it throws us caution just as
we begin to enjoy it.

Boogie Nights looks good for the
most part: Slinky seventies attire and
neon lights mix with the spirited music
and the self-indulgent lifestyle of the
characters involved. The people we
meet are intriguing. We seem to have
happened upon them in the middle of
something exciting. The conversations
feel as if they had begun somewhere
else and we pick it up as we pick up the
movie.

We meet Jack Horner (Burt
Reynolds) as the stoic, smooth master-
mind of a small pornography empire.
He serves as a psuedo-father figure for
his leading actors and he is a keen scout
for virile young newcomers. Ina glitzy
nightclub, he sees Eddie Adams (Mark
Wahlberg) from across the room. We
find out soon enough that Eddie be-
lieves that he is, like everyone else,
blessed with “one special thing.” His
special thing just happens to be a 13-
inch penis. Horner gets lucky in that
Eddie has the desire to be a “big bright

shining star,” and our tale of rising and.

falling from stardom begins.

What you heard was right — it is
all about sex, but not the kind we want
it to be. It is technical and objectified,
as well as confusing for all who are
involved.

The group of actors led by Horner

has a dysfunctional, familial connec-
tion to each other, but these connec-
tions have been determined by sexual-
ity which makes an outsider question
its reality. The characters live in their
own imaginary world, and the audience
wonders how much they actually share
besides sex and cocaine. They keep a
semblance of sanity within this world
that accepts them, as opposed to their
real life alternatives — school failure,
alcoholic mothers, and pitiful divorces.

The seductive quality of the movie
is glamorous in a cheap fashion. The
attractions are superficial, the values
lack substance, and the hearts of these
characters have been eagerly sped up
by a lack of real love and excessive
cocaine habits to fill the void.

But, more than anything, the movie
documents a lifestyle and a change of
times. It shows the audience what goes
along with this sexual revolution and
its destruction, marking the change of
the decade with a gruesome suicide —
a warning in and of itself. Our societal
views of sex changed dramatically from
the late seventies to the early eighties
and the lives of these characters begin
to break. The stars fall from what grace
they had assumed.

But this moviemaker, Paul Tho-
mas Anderson, did not get by without
saying something. I will admit, I had
to see it a second time to work through

its inherent shock value,
but hidden behind numer-
ous moments that could
easily be extended into
entire movies themselves,
Anderson warns us to be-
careful. He wants us to
be careful about what we
do, be careful: about how
we see sexuality, and he
subtly pleads with us to
be honest. These charac-
ters naively lack this hon-
esty, And though he cares
about them, he pities
them.

Anderson warns us
of the danger with sar-
casm and a little bit of
satire thrown in for fun,
He wraps up this two and
a half hour movie with a
cleaner world, one seem-
ingly free of the delusions
of grandeur and love, and
we can almost buy it. But

@ Mark Wahlberg as Eddie Adams/
porn-star Dirk Diggler

the lack of change and

substance is evident. After all, it is
‘show business - and the money has got
to keep coming- no pun intended.
Anderson continues to make us
wonder, even after we have left the
theater, why this disturbing, filthy warn-

ing is so alluring and enticing. And we
are reminded of what Horner proclaims

as his goal in the pornographic film
industry. He says that he does not
“want to make a movie where they just
come in, jack off, and leave before the
story is over. I want to make a‘movie
where they jack off and want to sit in it
until the story ends.” Art imitates life as

life imitates art.
