10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

af, 2 = ‘ ; - cat 4 "Whee % “ “
A TRIBUTE TO MONDAY, APRIL28, 197

JOHN BELL
Class of 1999

CYNTHIA LEWIS

Chair of the English Department

MANY PEOPLE BELIEVE
that John Kuykendall does everything
perfectly. But those of us who wit-
nessed his showing of the “Macarena”
at last September’s “50’s” dance know
differently. What Dr. Kuykendall lacks
in moves, however, he more than com-
pensates for in sheer mental agility. In-

' deed, if the “Macarena” has done little
to promote his presidential stature, the
same cannot be said of his mind.

“T swear, that man has a pho-
tographic memory,” says one of his
former students.

that dinner tonight,’ said one of my
friends recently about an official Col-
lege dinner she was obligated to attend.
“But John Kuykendall is speaking, and
I don’t want to miss it.” After hearing
the first sermon he preached at DCPC
as President of Davidson College, I
wrote him a note to say I was certain
that God Himself must have been an
English major to have elicited such
grace from His minister. Although Dr.
Kuykendall is always supposed to have
an agenda when he speaks—whether
raising money

“He’s an inspira-
tion in the class-
room,” she adds,
“but he wants
you to know ev-

Indeed, if the ‘““Macarena’”’
has done little to promote his
presidential stature, the same

cannot be said of his mind.

for Davidson or
winning souls
for the Lord—no
one who hears
him can doubt

erything!”” How
can I assure her that Dr. Kuykendall’s
steel-trap brain intimidates even her
professors? As he calls a faculty meet-
ing to order and listens to various col-
leagues stand and announce, pontifi-
cate, and opine, he appears to be doo-
dling—left-handed inverter that he is—
on his notes. But let a speaker at that
meeting misremember one detail from
the College Constitution or Faculty By-
laws and, without skipping a beat, he
looks up just long enough to set the
record straight, then resumes doodling
and, more to the point, listening intently.
I often wonder if a critical detail has
ever escaped his careful notice.

Such remarkable focus, how-
ever, culminates in his sermons and
public addresses. No one I’ve ever
heard preach can talk so eloquently and
yet so accessibly about the spirit, and
no one I’ve ever heard speak about
Davidson College can do it so spiritu-
ally. “I don’t really feel like going to

that what he re-
ally cares about is people and the hu-
man heart. Nor does he seem to recog-
nize the full power of his words. All
that intelligence is, finally, trairied not
on his own glory or anyone else’s, but
on the goal that has become the byword
of his presidency: service.

_In John Kuykendall, we have
enjoyed that rarity of gifts in today’s

academic community; an intellectual _

president. One of my great pleasures
in the past thirteen years—and one that
I know many of my colleagues have
shared—is that of sitting next to John
at some official event or other and get-
ting to talk with him about books. “I’ve
just rediscovered ‘Little Gidding,’” he

said to me at the last such occasion, re-:

ferring to T. S. Eliot’s Four Quartets.
What an overture! Next thing I knew,
we were being served dessert.

» Macarena... Schmacarena. I'll take

John Kuykendall’s heart, soul, and mind
any day.

tions do not exist for him.

DR. KUYKENDALL is very intimidating to interview.
Not because he acts so, but because his words are so beautiful
that transcribing them is a daunting task. I am terrified that I
might hear a sentence recorded on my scratchy dictaphone in
the wrong way, not because I think that he will be angry but
because I want everyone else to know what he said. I have
interviewed him twice now, and both times he has put me im-
mediately at ease, lulling me into an awestruck state with the
way he quickly and craftily constructs sentences and thoughts.
He has a complete power over an interviewer, like he knows the
question before he is asked. He never slips up; challenging ques-

Upon asking people to write these tributes, I realized
how he has impacted so many. Most felt privileged to be asked,
| but expressed frustration in attemting to honor such an obvi-
ously honorable man. What I received was eight completely
different responses, but all similar in their complete respect.
Please take time to read these. They are very special
tributes and were written with great thought and consideration.
Dr. Kuykendall, I feel priviledged to have spent time with you.
Thank you for loving Davidson like you do.

— Mary Clare Jalonick

OVER THE PAST YEAR, I
have labored with four other students,
and many faculty, staff and trustee
members to find a replacement for Dr.
Kuykendall. In hindsight, our biggest
stumbling block as a committee was
working to find a replacement for some-
one who is truly irreplaceable. Once
we stopped looking for another John
Kuykendall, and started focusing on the
qualities that made him a great presi-
dent, our work became much easier.
Now, with the task almost complete, I
have taken a moment to re-

incorporates several identifications and

essays in,his tests. His essays are the
_ most comprehensive questions I have
ever been tested on, and his identifica-
tions are often Obscure. Naturally, Dr.
Kuykendall would disagree as to the
obscurity of his i.d’s. His “reviews,”
he said, “are designed to test not only
the breadth, but the depth” of our
knowledge, and that they did.
I remember one, morning
quite vividly: it was still very early, and
there were about fifteen minutes of class

Confession was the first Anabaptist
confession of faith, drafted at
Schleitheim in 1527, and not
the moment when Schleitheim

flect on why I got involved
in the process to begin
with.

I first met Dr.
Kuykendall as a professor
in the Fall of 1995. It was

Dr. Kuykendall’s tests give a
new meaning to the phrase

“a hard earned C.’’

broke down in tears and con-
fessed, “I did it,” as I had an-
swered on the exam.
Needless to say, by
the time we had finished go-
ing over the tests, I had a pile

my first semester here, and
you can imagine how over-
whelmed I was to have a class with the
president of the college. We met every
Tuesday and Thursday morning at 8:30
a.m. I learned so much that first se-
mester. The first lesson I learned was
that I am not cut out for 8:30 classes.
That lesson hit home when I got my first
test back and realized attendance is truly
important.

Dr. Kuykendall’s tests give
new meaning to the phrase, “a hard
earned C.” For those of you who have
never had the pleasure of taking one of
Dr. Kuykendall’s tests, I will elaborate.
Like many professors, Dr. Kuykendall

left. I was looking forward to crawling
back into bed once class was over. Not
only was I exhausted, but I was begin-
ning to get a headache from the gmell
of the dry-erase marker on the boa¥i

front of me. Dr. Kuykendall stopped
lecturing and took out our corrected
tests from the week before. Along with
the tests, he had a brown bag filled with
bite-size Snickers bars. As we went
over the corrected tests, Dr. Kuykendall
would award Snickers bars to students
who had given incorrect, but creative
answers. The religion scholars among
you will remember that the Schleitheim

of Snickers to go along with
my C-.

Over the past two years I
have visited with Dr. Kuykendall and
spent hours talking with him about
Davidson. Faith, passion, and intellect
are the qualities that mark his presi-
dency, and are outweighed only by his
steadfast dedication and love for
Davidson. I will miss having him in the
President’s office, and I look forward
to welcoming him back to Davidson
one year from now as a professor, and
a friend.

Dr. Kuykendall, how do we say
thank you?

oY

£
RUTH PITTARD

Assistant Dean for Community Service and International Student Programs

THOSE OF US WHO ARE
living service at Davidson cannot let Dr.
John Kuykendall leave without com-
ment. He has been too important to us
both as a mentor and as a friend. As
Dr. Kuykendall, he has supported the
formation of a service program at
Davidson complete with staff, budget
and institutional presence.

of themselves.”

As John, he has certainly
given of himself generously. He has
appeared in the pouring rain during the
Freshman Orientation Service project,
hosted and inspired six classes of
Bonner students and parents, attended
events, shared words of wisdom and

pulse to engage themselves in a broken
world and find a place for their moral
energy” (Robert Coles, The Call of Ser-
vice, 48). We want to thank him for
living the idea of the gentle, kind, com-
passionate leader. We thank him for the
model of a leader who leads with his
spirit. And finally, we want to thank
him for believing that college stu-

That program has taken its
mission from his inaugural
address centered on the idea
that “an encouragement to
servanthood is an important
piece of what Davidson is.

As Dr. Kuykendall, he has supported
the formation of a service program at
Davidson ... As John, he has certainly

given of himself generously.

dents hold the key to the solution
of many of our community’s
problems, that through their en-
ergy and creativity they can make
a difference in our local, national,
and world communities, and that,

about and should be about as
we send graduates into a world that
sometimes seems to forget such homely
virtues...servanthood in the classroom
and in the courtroom, in the wards of
hospitals an the corridors of power, in
banks and corporations and places of
worship, in matters civic and social,
economic and political. The graduates
of Davidson College in the years to
come, as in the years now past, will be
able to make a difference in this world
to the extent that they are willing to give

lived his life as an example of the ser-
vant leadership that we are trying to
teach. He has been attentive both to the
program and its people; he has em-
braced the philosophy of service and the
stewards practicing the philosophy John
has been totally PRESENT for all who
follow the call of serving: “Go there.
Be there. Stay there.”

We thank Dr. John
Kuykendall for standing firmly for the
idea that college students “have the im-

in fact, they have a responsibil-
ity and privilege to affect their
world for good. Every time that we hear
a college student say that service has
helped them stay at Davidson, every
time that we hear a student exclaim that
helping a child has centered their life,
and every time that we get a thank you
note from’an agency for a Davidson
student’s help, we will think of Dr. John
Kuykendall, whose generous and com-
passionate spirit began and has sus-
tained the service'program at Davidson.
