2 THE DAVIDphONIAN

BRIEFS

a &

“Najarian Monkey” Found

After months of anxiety and constant vigil in the 24-hour computer lab,
a shocked Tarik Khan, freshman extraordinaire, exclaimed “I can’t
believe it, I never thought it would happen, but they found it.” The disk
[whose title mystified even the most ubiquitous members of the dungeon
crew, Joselyn Schultz, Kristen Richardson, Liz Sale, Charlotte Seigler,
Sabine Heller, Dennis Seavers and Randy Hartwell, none of whom were
able to hide their surprise] was found by Professor James Najarian, who
thought it was his. Who knew?

Boehmler twins commit fashion crime— THEY ACTED
ALONE!! 5

Campus fashionistas were shocked last Wednesday, to learn of a heinous
sartorial malfeasance- A witness spotted “the twins” in different outfits.
Although it seemed to be a outfit scheduling mistake, this did not explain
the dog collar that Jean sported. Liz sobbed, “I don’t know what she was
thinking, I said TODAY was pink oxfords! “This is unbelievable,” said
Ray Thrower, of the campus police. “They seemed like such nice little
girls, who would have thought they could do such a thing?” Friend Carlo
Reynolds couldn’t explain: “It was like one day, they were not the same.
It really threw me off.” :

Gul wins Humanitarian Award

For his efforts with Pakistani prison
reform, Mr. Saad Gul, of Davidson
and Islamabad, has won the Pakistani
Women’s Humanitarian Award. The
committee consisting of brother Fahd,
father Gaad and younger sister, Jihad
commended him for extraordinary
knowledge of the prison system and
for his work with prison rape victims.
Mr. Gul commented, “I always knew
that I would win.” Gul used his prize
money to purchase a harem and to
replace his brother FAGUL’s towel,
blue and lost.

And they chanted, Go,
Saad! Get stupid!

@
Watson Fellowship in question

Recently people have noted a strange phenomenon, known as
“Superman’s Father Syndrome” after Davidson graduate Jarrell Palmer
‘96. At first thought to be an isolated case of ubiquity, the syndrome has
been tied medically with the recent cloning of sheep in Great Britain.
This connection was first made at Raeford’s Barber Shop, where
Davidson senior Pat Montoya gets sheared. “I’ve never seen such a
sight,” said ole man Raeford. “All the Montoya clones' resemblances to
the sheepdog were uncanny.” For Watson Foundation trustees, ques-

Montoya #1

Montoya #2
tions are numerous. First, “Can he dance with all that hair in his face?”
This led to other questions of the personal sort. “Who is Pat Montoya?

Who is the REAL Montoya?” Until those questions are answered, his
status as a Watson fellow remains at large.

Junior attacked by own facial hair

North Mecklenburg County EMTs Andy Morris and Christina Thomas
were called in Friday evening at the Union Outpost when Junior
Matthew Hobbie’s handlebar moustache grew six feet and strangled
him. Onlookers gasped as Hobbie asphyxiated while eating a chicken
quesadilla. Most Outpost patrons believed Hobbie’s misfortune to be
caused by astray tortillachip. Observer Stephanie Moses, concerned for
Hobbie’ s life as well as his soul, attempted the Heimlich maneuver, but
quit performing the procedure once the moustache grabbed hold of her
too. “Back! Agent of Satan!” Moses screeched, clutching her Bible.
Outpost manager Dennis Rice called 9-911 once he saw the commotion,

PHONIAN

YO’ MOMMA’S DAY

pakistani palatable pleasures
200 people and nothing to serve?

Round those oxen up and try one of our
favorite recipes:

Roast Oxen with sun-dried tomato coulis and portobella mushrooms
Serves 200 (including harem of sexy muslim women)

Ingredients:

1 ox, slaughtered, in accordance with Islamic rites of purity
40 Ibs. good quality sun-dried tomatoes

106 portobella mushrooms
32 gallons balsamic vinegar
1 barrel crude oil

1 chest frankincense

2 arks myrhh

14 cans Crisco

juice of 5 bushels lemons

6 pecks Vidalia onions

23 cups seeded and finely diced green bell pepper

47 scallions, sliced thin

4 shovelfuls ground coriander
pinch of curry

horn o’ dates

1. Dig a pit in an isolated area. Let the harem do this part. Pick an area of the desert with an oasis; that
way water’s close by if the fire gets out of hand. Then set up a spit and and a fire and line with rocks

for safety.

2. With 14 cans Crisco, grease spit well. Prepare ox forimpalement. This is the tricky part. Try leaning
slaughtered ox against tent, tail side down. Then insert spit, as you would a thermometer. Demand that
Pakistani militiamen help you get the ox back over the fire, once you have prepared the coulis.

3.Coulis: In a large vat, add sun-dried tomatoes, oil, and vinegar. Tell the harem to perform ablutions

5 times, after all that digging. Then tell them all to get in the vat and start stom

set aside.

ping. Drain into urns,

4. Ina skillet, brown scallions, onions, and bell pepper. Add lemon juice, coriander, and curry.
5. Slice mushrooms into long strips, sprinkle with leftover lemon juice to prevent browning and put

aside.

6. Place frankincense and myrhh by fire. Turn ox on spit once quickly, to sear in flavor. Then start

slow roast. This takes 1001 Arabian nights. If you don’t feel like waitin

muslim women to do it. They’re used to waiting.
7. If you like, organize a Dance of the Seven Veils to pass the time. Or have your way with your harem.
It is yours, after all. Be a good host and arrange horn o’ dates for your guests, but station militiamen
nearby to guard against Bedouin marauders.
8. Test ox fordoneness. You should be able to insert a scimitar and have it come out clean. Carve while

still hot into small chunks.

g by the spit, tell the sexy

9. For presentation, place meat on skewers, top with coulis. Garnish with mushrooms, and serve on

platters. Bon appétit!
Wine suggestion:
None. It is forbidden.

Larceny from fourth Belk shower
room. An unidentified suspect took
one blue towel at 09:00 on April
27. Estimated value of the towel:
$2.50. Senitmental value: 0,

Indecent exposure on fourth Belk.
A nude, angry and wet Pakistani
was spotted adamantly demanding
the immediate return of his
“favortie towel, dude.” He has since
been clothed. 09:05 on April 27.

Vandalism on third Rich. A sub-
stantial pile of fecal matter was
found in a residence hall sink. Fur-
ther investigation found that it was
not real fecal matter at all, but plas-
tic “gag shit.” 22:00 on April 28.

on April 30. Victim was heard to
say “At least they didn’t take
Hootie.”

Suspicious individuals spotted on
the second floor of Little Library at

-14:00 on April 30.

Suspects, one male and one
female standing 6’ and 5’6”, were
wearing black ski masks and noth-
ing else. Male was carrying a laptop
computer and female was listening
to CDs. The pair asked where the
photocopiers were.

Dress code violation on Jackson
Court. An unnamed pair of twins
were spotted wearing different out-
fits during a stroll past the flowers.
May 1 at 14:30.

for the *&#%$ vamanos van to
take us to Rainbow Deli’s Mug
Night for a *&#*(@$ hour and the
*(@#%&# van never came. What
could we do? We had to get our
#% @#% beer somehow.

Possession of an unlicensed fire-
arm and intent to commit murder.
Doomsdayer Dennis Seavers was
apprehended from his Duke dorm |
room on May | after the college
police received an anonymous tip
over voice mail (the message was
sent on April 27, after hours).
Seavers, who is convinced that the
world will end this summer, had
collected a massive personal arse-.
nal “to prepare the way for the
coming of God.”

but was unable to reach campus police. He left a message instead.} | April 29 and all is well. On May 3, Seavers issued a

Minutes later, Morris and Thomas appeared on the scene, and used the : Seniors Greg Garrison, Kevin statement from the Mecklenburg

Jaws of Life to pry Hobbie’s unruly FuManChu from his neck. He and Larceny from the second floor of Boughan and Brian Penny were ‘County Penitentiary where he is
Moses emerged, uninjured. Little Library. A laptop computer charged with carjacking on May 1 currently awaiting trial.

: and CD player were taken along _ at 23:00. “You'll see,” he said. “When

Get a life 9 loser! ! (You, not us) with four of the victim’s five CDs Thethree-someexplainedtheir God shows up on a pillar of fire in

: ! sometime between 13:30and 15:00 actions by saying “we had waited July, you won’t be laughing then”

Geral, tbh 2 Rh hd ee Oe ok ie be et be Pr ee a ee peti ae Ee ee ed ee a ee are ae

