6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

P-ED

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 1997

The Bavidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors Opinions Editors Aris & Living Editors

JESSICA GOODSON KRISTEN BARTCH WESLEY GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN DAVID SANTSCHI CARRIE MORRIS

Layout Editor Sports Editor Web Page Manager
RANDY SKATTUM JAY CANTRELL HENDI FINK

Photo Editor Advertising Managers Business Manager °

ANNA JUDY SCOTT REEDER CHLOE BROOKE

MICHELLE BOUGDANOS -
Copy Editors DAVID JOHNSTON Circulation Managers

WHITNEY BLAKE CHLOE BROOKE
ANNA ERIKSSON McNEIL CARSWELL
Editor in Chief Associate Editor

MICHAEL J. KRUSE NARESH NAGELLA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

Quality or quantity?

ike any nationally-ranked liberal arts school should, Davidson empha-
sizes a broad-based education — both in and out of classroom doors —
choosing to focus on a little of this and a little of that.

This science and that English, this math and that history, this community
service and that literary magazine — all in an effort to mold us, its students, into
well-rounded human beings ready to tackle something more specific after
praduation.

In short, through this aim, the College virtually offers something for
everyone. At times, however, this ideal might spread Davidson's talent base —
a mere 1,600 and some odd students — too thin.

The College supports several dozen community service organizations, but
many have trouble recruiting — and then retaining — sufficient man- and
brainpower.

The athletic department funds 21 Division I sports, more than many state
schools with students populations 10, 20, even 30 times greater than that of
Davidson. Such an accomplishment is certainly admirable, perhaps unbeliev-
able, but a fair number of those teams — even a majority — have substantial
trouble winning with any consistency at the highest level of intercollegiate
competition.

And only a few weeks after the Ryan Gist trial attracted nearly a third of the
students on this campus to the 900 Room, less than 30 people chose to come to
the same venue for the Honor Code forum shortly before fall break.

Speeches, discussions, and forums almost always have trouble attracting
enough students to make it worth the speaker's or panel’s time. At one
particular talk two years ago, I was the one and only student present.

Whatever the reason, maybe an inherent desire or even an obsessive
compulsion to pad our transcripts and stuff our resumes, we spread ourselves
too thin here in Davidson's often cut-throat academic and extracurricular
environments.

After all, 11 activities is better than five, right? Not always.

Which brings me to the issue of sororities.

Why do we need them at Davidson? Especially if they would arrive under
the system that is currently being proposed — a half-hearted, slipshod, in-
name-only outline of sisterhood.

Sororities at Davidson, at least in their infancy, would essentially be
nothing more than clubs with corresponding Greek letters and national affili-
ations.

If the argument is that eating houses have too many members and are
therefore unable to provide the close kinship that fraternities and sororities
offer, then create some more eating houses.

If the argument is equality — that males have fraternities and females have
only eating houses, devoid of national ritual and history — then eliminate eating
houses and replace them with sororities.

Whatever is done, one thing is for sure: the College should not adopt
sotorities simply for the sake of adding another extracurricular option, another
social outlet. Consider quality over quantity.

Eating houses and sororities cannot and ultimately will not coexist on this
campus.

That said, pick one — either eating houses or sororities, but not both — and
do it well.

/~ce, THE ESSAY THap

CROPS EWECTED TO Stypy
NO aRETE A PERFECY’ «
ayer gonse USING Five)

‘ee§ FROM The

SE pe READINGS
SpriON hs Ne
1 4 2

a

fttallyder

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Giving students a chance to
—change the Humanities program = ——

To the Editor:

As students may or may not know, Davidson College programs and departments undergo regular extemat
evaluations. Last spring, the Humanities program embarked on this process, and as a result, the Educational Policy
Committee (EPC), comprised of the faculty members, student representatives, and the Dean of the Faculty, is looking
at possible revisions to the program.

As a part of this process, the EPC is soliciting faculty and student opinions. Students will have a wonderful
Opportunity to get involved in an important matter of curriculum review and to suggest changes. The college is
extremely interested in student opinion and feels it is crucial that students have a voice in this matter.

Through the process of reviewing the Humanities program, several broader issues have already emerged with
possible implications for the program's revision.

Does the Humanities program meet well the core requirements it intends to fill?

Do Davidson's core requirements teach the writing skills and give the liberal arts diversity and the critical
thinking skills that it intends? .

Based on these issues and others revealed by the outside evaluators last March, the present review process of
the Humanities program has been divided into three subcommittees.

*Humanities: Chaired by Dr. Nina Serebrennikov, this committee is charged with addressing the existing
Humanities program and any modifications that should be made to it. Possible modifications could include anything
from the number of times the course meets to its content.

English Composition: Chaired by Dr. Cynthia Lewis, this committee is responsible for examining the standards
and expectations of the composition requirement.

*First-Year Seminars: Chaired by Dr. Kart Plank, this committee is exploring the possibilities of other first-year
seminars in the Humanities. Questions this committee is addressing range from whether interdisciplinary seminars
might replace the Humanities program to what role additional seminars might play in Humanities.

The solutions and answers to these questions have direct ramifications for how and what we, as students, are
taught. We are encouraging any students with thoughtful comments involving the Humanities program, or any of the
issues being addressed by the subcommittees, to express their views in written form or by contacting the appropriate
subcommittee chair.

Any written responses may be forwarded directly to the appropriate subcommittee chair, sent to the SGA Council
on Academic Affairs, or given to the student Educational Policy Committee representatives, Nathan Ohler and Sara
Straus.

Allresponses should be conipleted within the next few weeks. Please take this opportunity to share your thoughts
with the faculty on this important issue.

Sara Straus and Nathan Ohler
Class of 1998

Committee Representatives
Council on Academic Affairs
Student Educational Policy

An alumnus questions the Gist trial

To the Editor:

1 am an alumnus of Davidson College. I have lived in the area since my graduation and regularly follow
happenings about campus.

Initially, 1 was amused at the Ryan Gist controversy because Gist's actions were so trivial However, the more
Ihave read and heard about the alleged incident, the more irritated I have become.

Perhaps the thirteen years living in the “real” world following graduation have softened my brain somewhat. i
feel that I must be missing something. I simply cannot understand how Gist violated the Code of Responsibility.

First of all, no crime was commited. The Davidson police appear to be content. The Post Office apparently does

not consider itself a victim of acrime. Gist stole nothing. The only people that appear offended are a portion of the
Davidson administration.

The only thing Gist is guilty of is perhaps the overenthusiastic enforcement of a fairly obscure federal statue.
In retrospect, he probably should have spoken with the Postmaster the following day and informed him or her of the

law. However, I am very impressed with the enthusiasm Gist displayed, which is admirable given the apathy which
pervades much of the Davidson student body.

The college is guilty of displaying a lack of common sense. From the outside looking in, the Davidson

administration comes off looking pretty damn silly. The prosecution of Gist’s act was more disruptive than that act
itself.

Case thankfully closed.

Bill Cobb
Class of 1984
Davidson

To submit letters to the editor

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by
Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at
mikruse @ davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions On a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably in
WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space
requirements mandate.

ae

