7 THE DAVIDSONIAN

~

Op ped

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

The Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors Opinions Editors Arts & Living Editors
JESSICA GOODSON KRISTEN BARTCH WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
SARAH OGDEN DAVID SANTSCHI CARRIE MORRIS
Layout Editor Sports Editor Web Page Manager
RANDY SKATTUM JAY CANTRELL HENDI FINK

Photo Editor Advertising Managers Business Manager

ANNA JUDY SCOTT REEDER CHLOE BROOKE
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
Copy Editors ° DAVID JOHNSTON Circulation Managers

WHITNEY BLAKE
LYNSAY MADLEY

CHLOE BROOKE
McNEIL CARSWELL

Editor in Chief
MICHAEL J. KRUSE

Associate Editor
NARESH NAGELLA

SPREADING YouRELE Tarn Puts HATR ON YouR CHEST.

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
hitp://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

The price to pay for doing our job

n behalf of the entire editorial board, every staff writer, and all managerial members
of the Davidsonian, I have this to say, hopefully (but probably not) for the final
time:

Our job — indeed, the job of any self-respecting, diligent, and responsible college
student newspaper — is not to pat backs and lead cheers while concentrating only on the
good news and ignoring the bad.

Our job, our duty, our obligation is to, as accurately and fairly as possible, report on all
the news — whether good or bad, happy or sad. Where praise is due, praise should certainly
be given. But by the same token, where criticism is due, criticism should be given.

Consider that a rough statement of purpose. If we were to adhere to any other overriding
mission, we would be doing ourselves and the school an inexcusable disservice.

And while many students fully understand this basic principle of journalism — and we
do like to consider ourselves journalists, however green — a disturbingly large faction
seemingly does not.

Consider the following scenarios over the first nine weeks of this semester:

Sports editor Jay Cantrell wrote a commentary approximately a month ago urging the
fall sports teams to shape up and start winning some games. The following week, the
Davidsonian was bombarded with six letters to the editor concerning Cantrell’s piece.

The responses were more or less the same, all reminding readers that the teams are
trying hard, that they put in. x amount of hours a week in practice and games, and that Cantrell
should be supportive rather than condescending — or honest, depending on one’s particular
perspective.

Members of various teams had one reasonable complaint: that Cantrell implicitly
linked the losses to a lack of effort and heart.

But that is hardly the point. Cantrell is entitled to his opinion, especially if it comes in
an article labeled as such — acommentary. Nowhere does it state, directly or indirectly, that
Cantrell or any other Davidsonian staffer must extract the positives from every — or any —
event.

Cantrell wrote what he thought. Respondents wrote what they thought. That does not
make Cantrell’s words unfair, illegitimate, or unnecessary.

eLast month, when Ryan Gist was tried publically on the grounds of a Code of
Responsibility violation, the Davidsonian covered the happening extensively — perhaps the
most comprehensive coverage of any single campus event in the paper’s 84-year history.

My editorial asked tough questions about the Honor Council and Code, which many
thought were hurtful questions.

According to an admittedly unscientific Davidsonian poll — certainly not an end-all-
be-all representation of public opinion — roughly half of the nearly 400 students polled
reported that they had lost some faith in the Honor system.

Ata school that practically bases its very existence on students’ personal honor, such
a number is impossible to ignore. Indeed, we at the Davidsonian would have been
irresponsible if we hadn’t covered the event — and, more importantly, its implications —
to such a full extent.

Yet, two letters to the editor — which in itself was kind of disturbing, considering three
times that amount came in regarding Cantrell — accused the Davidsonian of sensationalism,
negligent reporting, and shoddy writing.

But everything said in that issue needed to be said. The overwhelming response among
students, both on the pages of the Davidsonian and just around campus, proved that.

Davidsonian columnist Liz Neiheisel, only a freshman, has an Op-Ed piece in this issue
in which she thoughtfully asks what the school’s alcohol policy is actually formulated to do:
Stop underage drinking or create loopholes so students can get away with it while the
administration chooses to see no evil?

That type of issue is precisely the kind that should be raised every week in the

‘Davidsonian’s campus forum. Not some petty ramblings about a particular student’s

relatively meaningless weekly goings on. Instead, a substantial piece of journalism — one

that will make people think and spur further conversation and debate.

This campus, like any other college, has problems. It is not perfect. And it is our job
to identify and investigate those problems, not overlook them in hopes they will disappear.

Whether students like it or not, whether the administration likes it or not, whether alums
like it or not, whether we like it or not, that is our duty.

If that principle leads to words readers at times perceive as cruel or unnecessary, so be

it. That is a price we must pay. ; ‘
WMeba Mid pn

mS

“Fans” didn’t give adequate support

To the Editor:

This past weekend was Homecoming, and I’m sure almost everybody had a great time getting all dressed up and
going out to dinner, then spending a night dancing, listening to music, and drinking.

Unfortunately, almost everybody can’t include having a great time packing the seats at Richardson Field and
screaming and hollering for the team that makes that weekend happen. Maybe everybody just forgot that
Homecoming gets its name because the football team “came home” after three straight away games.

How did our supportive fans greet them? By showing up in all their classy shirts, and dressy blouses...for a
football game? Don’t get me wrong, this was probably one of the biggest turnouts of the year, people were even
standing on the ground.

However, I don’t think any of the Methodists players cared, because their fans (maybe 50 of them) made our
3,000 or so fans look like statues. They had 50 stinking fans travel here and disgrace us on our special day. Why did
the team even bother to come home?

It’s not that the team is playing badly or the games are blowouts. Most people don’t know this because half of
the Davidson “fans” left after the halftime presentation, but our team blocked a punt late in the fourth quarter and ran
it in for a touchdown to put us ahead, and then fought hard on defense to try to hold that lead against a ranked team.

I'd say that’s something to cheer about. I’m not saying you have to be crazy like my friends arid I, and paint your
chests, but at least yell something.

Yes, the cheerleaders’ cheers seem stupid, but they’re trying their best. And they’re probably getting pretty
frustrated looking up at people sitting there talking to the guy next to them about what’s going on later that night.

You wouldn’t have that night if you didn’t have that football team working hard out there on the field, so get your
ass off the seat once ina while. Buy a noise-maker if you don’t know what to yell, and support these guys by giving
them some noise.

If 50 Methodist fans can make that much noise, 3,000 Davidson fans should make the team proud to. come home.
They deserve it.

Jeff Kessler
Class of 1999

Davidsonian should show more sensitivity, tact

To the Editor:

Once again, as we were reading the Davidsonian, we were shocked by the insensitivity of the editor and
contributors. Three weeks ago, in a piece entitled “Vigilante justice: down with the freak,” a student suggested that
we “get out baseball bats and pillowcases full of doorknobs” and implied that, ina fit of “mayhem,” we beat the “freak.”

And last week, the editor chose to place a quote’ warning the community about the “freak,” whom he called the

“campus crazy.”

This is disturbing for two reasons. First, if this guy truly has mental problems (and it appears that he does), why
has no one helped him?

Second, in this age of sensitivity and understanding, we would never print derogatory comments about someone
with a physical handicap. Yet we jump at the chance to make fun of a person with a mental problem. Is the Davidson
community that ignorant about mental illness? Would the Davidson community be as willing to flog a man in a
wheelchair as a man with schizophrenia? It is no wonder that people like this are alone and unsupported.

With all we know, we should be able to treat people with mental disabilities as people with real problems, not
as persons possessed by the devil in need of an exorcist.

Michael Lee
Jamie Kleinman
Class of 1998

9
Kruse’s words hurt
To the Editor:
Ihave subscribed to the Davidsonian for four years. I was very upset last year with Michael Kruse’s article about
women’s basketball at ETSU and about Johnson City, Tenn. His remarks were cruel, unkind and unnecessary.

When I read that Kruse was executive editor, I hesitated my decision to subscribe this year.

Mrs. Isaac Freeman

To submit letters to t he oC

Submit all letters to’ the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by
Friday at 6 p.m. Or e-mail any submissions to editor in chief Michael Kruse at
mikruse @davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions 0 on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably i in
WordPerfect. Keep all submissions under 400 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions as space
requirements mandate.

