THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOODBYE, DR. K.

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997

Relaxing i in the office that

will be his for only a month longer,

John Kuykendall reflects on personalities,
change, regrets, and the move ahead.

What is running through your mind
as your tenure comes to a close?

We are enjoying so many happy
times. I wish we could spread them out.
It’s like fast forward on your VCR,
things move fairly rapidly and there is
not much time to be reflective. There
is a certain sense of things left undone,
which is predictable. At the beginning
of the year I made myself a list of things
to get accomplished in behalf of my
successor so that he or she would not
have to cope with them. I guess I’ve
taken care of about half of them — I'll
probably have some unfinished busi-
ness to pass to the next president.

So will you be teaching next year?
Not next year. I will be on sab-
batical for the year, and be home for
the Christmas holidays. Missy and I
are hoping that we will be able to go
with the Davidson alumni group to New
Zealand and Australia next March, if
that works out. Part of the time I will
be working on a research project, and
part of the time developing a new
course to be taught the following year.
And spend a little bit of time traveling.
So we'll have a full year away from
Davidson, and return in the late sum-
mer of 1998 and start teaching that fall.

Will it be strange to be a faculty
member?

Not entirely. I have tried to teach
one course a year, so I have kept my
hand in, but it will be somewhat differ-
ent because of the things that won’t be
going on. Having taught for eleven
years before I came here, I think [ll
return to the routine fairly easily, but
the other part is that I will not be in-
volved in many things that have been
part of life for thirteen years, so that will
be strange.

What will you miss most?

Associates, folks throughout the
college family. For instance, I will miss
the kind guidance and support of [my
assistant] Denise Howard in that office
out there, and the wonderful way that
she has helped me to do so much more
than I could ever have done by myself.
She takes incomprehensible manu-
scripts of speeches and turns them into
things that sound a lot better than they
did when they were spoken. She takes
dictation which must be absolutely in-
coherent and makes it into a letter or
report or whatever. Denise is the per-
son with whom I worked most directly,
but that sort of relationship is what I
will miss most in a more general way.
Ties to the trustees of the college, which
I’m sure I still will have on a personal
level; also with the alumni of the col-
lege, many of whom I have known be-
fore; then, of course, ties to colleagues
on campus — faculty, and administra-
tion, and students — the relationships
will continue, I know, but in a different
way.

That leads into my next question —
who have been some of your favorite
personalities?

The very top of my list would
be the people who have led the college
as board chairs. Fred Stair, who was the
Board Chair during the first few months
I was here, was one of my heroes grow-
ing up. He was a very special person
in my life, to whom I turned when I was
making some vocational choices. And
of course, Ben Craig. He was like my

older brother, I felt as though I had
known him all my life. I have never
known anyone, as a friend, with whom
I had such immediate rapport. We un-
derstood each other very well. Then,
of course, Craig Wall. We were fresh-
men hallmates 42 years ago, and in
touch with each other much of the time
since then, in one way or another. He
was a person whom I admired tremen-
dously. He probably worked harder for
Davidson than I did. He had ‘that little
notebook in his pocket, with twenty
things going for Davidson all at once.
I don’t think Craig ever was forgetful
of Davidson. He was always on the job.
He would be on that short list of very
special people.

It wouldn’t do to single out
from among administrators and faculty
and students any one more than others,
but there are dozens of people with
whom I have life-long relationships and
I’ve been wonderfully supported by the
administration of the college, those with
whom I’ve worked most closely. You
could just go down that list. The ones
who are now here are representative of
that great talent and commitment.
Working together has been a very har-
monious thing. And faculty members,
because I have “from” the faculty and
am not slow to say that I wish to return,
have been really gracious in dealing
with me. The faculty and administra-
tion are not
supposed to
see eye-to-eye
on everything,
but we have
certainly kept
the friendships
that have
undergirded
the community
and made it
much stronger,
I think. And students, the reason we
are all here have provided more satis-
faction than anything else.

Going on to the new president — we
asked you last year what qualities you
would like to see in a new president,
you said then that you want to see
someone who loved Davidson as
much as you do. A year later, is there
one characteristic you feel you want
to see in the new president, such as
an alum, or a member of the Presby-
terian Church? What are some of the
most important qualities that the new
president should have?

I think I would “stick to my
story.” I think that the president must
be someone who loves Davidson or
learn very quickly to do so, and to love
it for its distinctions, both strengths and
just peculiarities. Beyond that, it will
require a measure of enthusiasm which
most people don’t have to bring to the
jobs they do. Yu have to focus a lot
on doing the job. Another thing that
will be important: we have been
through the years of abundance in terms
of the sources in higher education in this
last decade, and it has been wonderful
to be here in a time that things are grow-
ing — buildings are going up, endow-
ment is growing and all that — but it is
self evident in the nature of things that
we have now come to a point of eco-
nomic reassessment. And someone
who knows and understands the things
that have to do with how a complicated,
very complicated, entity like the Col-
lege operates economically and in terms
of its resources will be important to
Davidson. I’m not in any way saying
that we have been spendthrifts or
wasted resources; we haven’t. We've

been very prudent with what we've had. ',

But we have had an abundance relative
to our circumstance that has not been
typical in 160 years of Davidson’s ex-
istence and will not be typical in the
next 160 next years of Davidson’s ex-
istence. I don’t mean Davidson’s not
in stable circumstances — we’re fine,
we have sufficient resources to do ev-
erything we need to do, but it is to say
that we are going to have to work hard
doing it. This will be the responsibility
of every one of us, under the leader-
ship of the president. We don’t have to
pinch pennies, but make dollars stretch
and be willing to give up some things
in order to undertake other things.

Again, the knowing and lov-
ing Davidson is in part an acknowledg-
ment and undergirding of the academic
enterprise. The person needs know al-
most intuitively what the teaching and
learning process is and how we can best
foster it.

What do you see has changed the
most in the last ten years?

That’s an interesting question,
and I have no real answer for it. In
terms of students what I see is a certain
breadth, the word “diversity” gets hack-
neyed and I’m not sure I want to use it,
but there is a breadth that is representa-
tive in terms of personal experience and
a variety of talents. People always talk

about how homogeneous we are, and
in some respects we are, but if we mag-

nified the variety that you see on the ©

Davidson campus by a factor of ten, you
would see a lot more visible diversity
than you see here now. What happens
is we have only one or two that repre-
sent this particular talent or interest or
orientation. I do see more variety and
more strength in more areas than I saw
ten years ago. And that’s not to com-

pare board scores or to say who’s

smarter — that’s kind of a fruitless ar-
gument that I don’t think really leads
anywhere, but the college has become
more self-conscious about variety. On
the other side of the ledger, the faculty
and staff have become a bit more home-
grown ... [the number has almost
doubled], and that’s quite an interest-
ing phenomenon to take place when you
are in a market in which you have so
many candidates for a job here. You’ve
got a lot of possibilities here, but
Davidson alumni are often the best of
the lot. And the same thing is true in
regard to administrative staff — I was
doing an orientation for new trustees
last Thursday and I showed them the
table of organization for the college
administration ... and as I looked
through the list, I realized that nearly

. one third of them were Davidson

alumni. And the neat thing now is that
it’s not Davidson alumnae meaning
bald-headed 59 year-old men, it means
young men and young women, people
who are in various stages of their ca-
reers who have cast their lot with
Davidson. And that home-grown tal-
ent is a continuing testimony to the
character of the place.

SAMUEL SPENCER

No president, wrote the
president of Allegheny College
twenty-five years ago, “can serve this
many clienteles— students, faculty,
trustees, alumni, church, and local
community— equally well... No
president can be in command of all
facets of his office...”

Today the pressures are far
greater and the job far more complex,
but John Kuykendall has surmounted
the difficulties and made his presi-
dency a glowing success in a won-
derful way.

The problem of the mul-
tiple “clienteles” is ever present:
while they all have things in common,
each has legitimate special interests
of its own, special interests that often
conflict with one another. To recon-
cile these conflicting interests, to keep
them in balance, requires the kind of
under-

standing,
judgment,
firmness,
and tact
that John
has so
skillfully
demon-
strated in
all his re-
lation-
It is a rare president who

ships.
reaches the end of his tenure in office

with an outpouring of approval from
all quarters and a genuine sadness that
he is stepping down.

During the past few years,
I have helped a number of colleges
search for new presidents. One of the
first steps in the work of a search com-
mittee is to determine the qualities it
wants in the person sought. Almost
without exception, search committees
begin by insisting on experience in
fund raising as a sine qua non.

John Kuykendall, who
came to Davidson with little or no in-
stitutional fund raining experience, is

Former President of Davidson College

‘heart. There is an unquestionable

living proof of the fallacy of such a
requirement. It is the quality of lead-
ership that is essential to raising
money, not technical expertise in the
field of development. Without John’s
absolute commitment to the College,
his inside-out knowledge of it, his
ability to interpret its potentialities,
and his skill in enlisting others for an
enthusiastic team effort, the capital
campaign, would never have
achieved its stunning result. When I
joined in thanking Tom Baker for his
great generosity, he said, “Well, John
makes you want to give.”

John could do that because
of personal qualities that enable him
to relate to people of all ages, back-
grounds, and interests. A superb
teacher and preacher, he has a pastor’s

genuineness— and I know this as a
recipient— in the profusion of personal
notes that have gone out from the
president’s office to members of all
those multiple clienteles in recogni-
tion of birthdays, anniversaries, tri-
umphs, and tragedies. In building and
maintaining these personal relation-
ships so important to the College, he
has had an indispensable partner and
ally in Missy. When the trustees ap-
pointed John, they indeed added a
second invaluable asset.

A college like Davidson is
a dynamic organism, always moving,
always changing with succeeding stu-
dent generations. No matter how
spectacular its progress, there are al-
ways further needs ahead. Because
the job can never be finished, a presi-
dent inevitably leaves with a regret-
ful consciousness of things incom-
plete, of things left undone. John will
undoubtedly have some of those feel-
ings.

However, I know of no
president anywhere who, in looking
back, more genuinely deserves to en-
joy the fruits of his labor of love for
this college he has served so well.

How are you going to close your
presidency?

I’m going to clean up that desk!
This is a point at which the personal
and the vocational begin to blend in a
way that is atypical in the last thirteen
years. We have to deal with packing
and moving, but I guess as I look at the
weeks ahead I look at the big events in
the college’s life, such as Baccalaure-
ate and Commencement, and things that
Ihave to be involved in, and then I look
into the abyss, which is all those books,
and all those shelves in the President’s
house with have to be out of there by
the first of July, and the piles of things
that I have left unattended, thinking I’d
get back to them. Right now we’re
planning, at least provisionally, not to
be here.on the last day of my official

tenure. We will have already left on-

vacation, not really for sentimental rea-
sons but because there was something
that we wanted to do that starts about

three days before the first of July, and I
thought it would be kind of neat to take
the last three days off!
What kind of regrets do you have?
Someone was asking me yester-
day about time management, and my
“philosophy” of time management. I
honestly have none and I don’t think I
do it very well. In one category of re-
gret would be the inability to partici-
pate in a lot of things. Sometimes it is
just not a possibility, because two or
three things are happening at one time,
especially at this time of year ... but I
think I might have been a little more
methodical in my approach to things
. Other regrets are more philosophi-
cal in terms of that ideal Davidson that
is in the mind of each of us, and the
ways in which the actual falls short of
the ideal. I expect that my successor
will keep close to many of his or her
ideals, and that is where I shall try to
be of help.

BY MARY CLARE JALONICK

se quhaereemerilip oe
