MONDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1997 7

PS

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
RANDY HARTWELL JEFFERY CROMARTIE CAROLINE BYNUM
TERESA WHITE
Sports Editors Advertising Managers
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW JOHN EARLY
MATTHEW EIRICH MICHAEL KRUSE PETER MARTIN
News Editors Photo Editor Circulation Managers
ANN CULP ANNA JUDY CHLOE BROOKE
NARESH NAGELLA ; McNEIL CARSWELL
Copy Editors
Opinions Editors BETH BACON Web Page Managers
KRISTEN BARTCH PENNY WALL CLAY LENHART
DAVID SANTSCHI BRAD CHASE
; Cartoonist ERIC PENDERGRASS
Arts & Living Editor CHRIS MOORE
HEATHER LARSON

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

f > ¥
PID YOU Ymow...
stealing a fite-deuck and driving i+
down the street 1s a medical/y

roven form of shess relief 2
But i+ has to be one of hose

heck and ladder jobs with the beri
ible brea? scabing. ond bhb cee conver +

ne

Si man kX TOO

go'ng-

Yellow ones work
}\e fest, but

fed ones ave
( good, +v0,

as long
as yeu

AY ]) 94 vue

given plus
P. A. 5yStem.

LETTERS

Come on out for rugby

The Wavidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Workable Differences?

The mission statement from Solidarity Week, as it appears on flyers and posters for this year’s
' “Global Rhythms: Dance to the Beat of a Different Drummer” contains a telling and paradoxical
construction. It says the week’s purpose is “to promote solidarity on campusand within the
community.”

While “and” joins “on campus” and “within the community,” it also separates them, acknowl-
edging them as distinct entities. To “promote” in two neighboring and independent bodies, rather than
in the community as a whole, suggests different applications and different standards. Do these
different applications and standards prevent town and College from realizing common ground?

To question the possibility of achieving solidarity may sound pessimistic. We could quickly slide
toward a self-fulfilling prophesy: if we decide that our differences are too great to be overcome and
therefore do not try to unify, then we never will. Without question nearly everyone in the town and
College communities can unite behind such ideas as equality and stand against hatred and bigotry, as
people did at the first Solidarity function. And town members can come to our plays and lectures and
students can go to barbeques and schools to tutor. But at night, we return to our respective ghettoes.
Plush ghettoes for most of us, but separate and separated entities nonetheless. In the face of recent
events we are led to question whether the town and the College ever can find common’ ground. Our
interests may be too divergent to reconcile.

507 Concord is only the most recent example of this. Board of Adjustment member Don Howie
accused The Davidsonian of vilifying the Board with our headline “Town forcing four students out
of 507 Concord.” And he has a point. Our headline may have misemphasized or overemphasized the
town’s role in the fiasco while understating the College’s mistake. Certainly, the College should not
have proceeded with moving students in before it had permission to do so. And all of the neighbors
should have been approached about the matter before the students arrived.

Members of the Board volunteer their time to help their community through serving on the
Board. We recognize their commitment to the town as commendable, even if many of us wish their
decision was different in the case of 507 Concord. But Howie’s definition of community is limited
to the private home-owners of Davidson and does not include the students living in the house. Perhaps
this is right: home-owners have invested a great deal of money in their properties and are understand-
ably concerned about property values. They may have more to lose than the students or the College.
The Board could have allowed the students to stay, but that'would have meant ignoring the concerns
of certain town members. So, who should have had preference in this situation? That question, in

microcosm, expresses the whole debate. Whose town is this? Ideally, we would like to say it belongs .

to all of us, students and town members alike, but our goals and objectives clash.

For instance, many students would love to see a bar in Davidson, especially with Back Street
gone. Not many townspeople, we imagine, like that idea. Students would like a different, more
student-oriented coffee house in town, but student-friendly appears to be synonymous with being
hostile to community members. Or so the perception seems to go. And this is understandable. Most
students can sympathize with parents who want a neighborhood and businesses they are certain will
be appropriate environments for their children. But not all student-oriented activities are suited for
children or enjoyable to other groups in the town. By the same token, not all student-oriented activities
are unsuitable for children.

Director of Physical Plant Bob Collins has suggested that perhaps the only way for an
understanding to grow between students and town members is to have students living throughout the
community. Then, the theory goes, reality will replace stereotypes held by students and the
community. At this point, a red flag has quickly shot up in the minds of many town members. As
testimony from the Board meeting indicates, the thought of living near students concerns many people.

And again this reaction is not unjustified. The potential for big parties and abnormal amounts of.
noise and traffic exists when students live in off-campus housing. It may even be likely. It may be
unrealistic for the College and students to expect home owners to tolerate or accept the particulars of
student life. Both communities within Davidson must compromise a great deal to remedy this. And
perhaps the chasm is too large to bridge. Students might have to curb their freedoms to such a degree
that they would feel restricted. Andtown members might have to tolerate behaviors and situations they
simply cannot abide.

Instances of livable and peaceful coexistences between students and town members exist right
now. But they are too few to affect a large change in the perceptions of either camp. Perhaps we will
have to agree to disagree. This is not to say that students and town members will snarl at each other
as they pass in the post office-nothing so bleak and antagonistic as that. But solidarity over our true
bones of contention may be expecting too much. The question for both sides now is: How much are

you ready to compromise? And the answer may be: not that much. pi

To the Editors:

We would like to take
this opportunity to apologize
to the students and any mem-
ber of the Davidson College
community who ventured out
in the inclement weather to
watch the Davidson Rugby
team play UNC-Chapel Hill

on last Saturday afternoon.
Due to bureaucratic actions
which were both unforseen
and out of our control, we
were forced to move our
game from the IMAC fields
toalotin Mooresville. Thank
you for your efforts, and we
hope everyone will make it
out to the IMACs March 29

at 1 for a big game of the
Wildcats taking on Wake
Forest. We promise.

Sincerely,

Will Baldwin, Pres.,
Thayer Long, Capt.,
and the Davidson Rugby
team.

From a concerned weirdo

The Bavidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: Whe
BDavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Wavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

Imust say, for apublica~
tion that probably prides it-
self on honesty and objectiv-
ity, you guys really dropped
the ball when you printed “An
Alternative to Alternative.”
Admittedly I wasn’t expect-
ing kind words or flowery
prose especially in associa-
tion with a place called the
Septic Tank, but that was out
of line.

Let me give you the
story. I moved here to live
with my girlfreind around five
months ago. By the way, we
both shower, And while I
don’t shave nearly as much
as I ought to, I take no plea-
sure in being dirty, and I have
no facial peircings as I don’t
much care for them. I defy
anyone to say that we are not
respectable individuals and
that’s my main basis for com-
plaint. Like I was saying, it
was around that timeframe
that the Septic Tank moved
to the location that your re-
porter visited. My girlfriend
and I used to go out there. It
was interesting and there were
people out there that we
wanted to see. Of course,
eventscame to acritical mass
sometime in the nebulous
period between now and then
and things got really out of
control. We, andalarge group
of others decided that we

didn’t really want to go out
there anymore, so we stopped
going: And that-was that.

What’s my point? I’m
not saying that what you had
to say about The Septic Tank
didn’t ring true, but you’ve
got to remember a few things
when you’re talking about a
place like that and people like
that.

First of all, you and your
management would be drug
out into the street and shot if
you printed a story like that
on a black club. Obviously
it’s a little different in this
case because we all choose to
dress this way and therefore
put ourselves in the line of
fire as it were.

’ Butit’s still more or less
the same thing. Don’t let

writers make snap judge-

ments like that. Did it ever
occur to you that there might
be another opinion out there
aside from the one held by
the management of the Sep-
tic Tank? As wild as this
sounds, there are some of
those “fruitcakes in black”
with “enough metal in their
faces to build a VW engine”
that won’t go near the place
based exclusively on how
gross it is.

Did you ever think that
their opinions might garner a
little more validity and weight
than someone who thinks that
Pearl Jamis still cutting edge?

Let me put it this way, send-
ing that guy to the Septic Tank
to write a review is like sernd-

‘ing Ice T to Coyote Joe’s and
asking for his thoughts on the
matter. See where I’m com-
ing from?

Come on guys, get real.
When you take on something
as alien as the gothic/indus-
trial subculture you owe it to
your readers as well as your
fellow man
to at least give it a little re-
search before you print some-
thing that’s as damamging as
that report.

If you still want to give
us equal time, write me back
andI’ ll get some pals together
and WE’LL give you the hon-
est verison of the gothic sub-
culture and then your readers
can make a judgement based
upon that. If they still don’t
like us, fine. But no one’s
going to much care for the
picture that was painted in

_association with the Septic

Tank and you make it sound
like that’s all there is.

So what do you say? Are
you going to let this be final
or are you going to do some-
thing to correct the error?

That’s all.
A Concerned Weirdo.
—TSM,

wi23 @andrew.cmu.edu

The Babvidsonian came out late last week because
one of our computers went down in flames.
Literally. You can help us buy a new one
by purchasing a stylish, yet comfortable
Wabidsonian t-shirt. Only $10.

