ads |

° an intetview iy ed pic Soa

Mood Nihiis Gas Se Maceo Tala A olson RS Coc Randa Since then the band has produced four albums, each one a step ina

progression that illustrates the American “Industrial” genre that they helped to create. Their first record, Sins of the Flesh was a solid, angry synth-pop record
which began SMG’s association with the WaxTrax label, which in the early nineties was the premier American industrial label. Unfortunately, in 1994 WaxTrax

went bankrupt, and was bought out by TVT records, who continued distribution of all the WaxTrax bands. Shortly theraft

SMG released their dalbum,

The Torture Technique, which abandoned the synthy sound of the previous album for a very, very noisy, harder sound. This time was also quite difficult for
Chris himself, as he was battling not only problems with his new label, but also herion addiction. While continuing SMG’s tradition of nonstop touring, Chris

still managed to release the band’s next album, Burn a year later. The road to this records rel

was

but included a stop to his substance abuse problem,

and a marriage to his current wife Lisa. Burn was again a departure from previous work, featuring more slower and groovy tracks while maintaining the signature
SMG intensity. Another marathon tour ensued, and by late 1996 Chris began working on the latest SMG album Metropolis, which was finally released this
summer. The delay was caused by the growing rift between TVTs expectations, and Chris’ artistic integrity, When he submitted the finished album to TVT
in November last year, they considered it commercially non-viable, and pointed to the clause in his contract that said they had to have something to sell. This
led to Chris going back into the studio to record a single to be added to the album, a compromise which he regrets. After more debate and beauracracy, TVT
finally agreed to release the album with the new track, and SMG went out on tour in support of the new album. I was lucky enough to see the band at Ziggys
in Winston-Salem recently, and had an opportunity to speak to Chris about the new record, his problems with the label, and the state of the world.

So, great to have you here in lovely Winston-
Salem on your current “Cold Fusion” tour.

Yeah, this is one of the 440 dates we've played
in the past two years.

Wow. Looking at your tour schedtele, you
seem to focus more on the northern and
midwestern cities...

We do the south at least once a year, but we
don’t do real well down here... south of the
Mason-Dixon line, Atlanta being the one ex-
ception to that rule. The, umm, is this for radio
or print?

It’s for print.
So I can swear?
Oh yeah.
’ F---ing florida, man...
Really? What about it in particular?

Wel!, we, I don’t know, it’s a strange
state. They're very faddish there. There’s three
parts of the country where fads are heavy duty,
that’s LA, Washington DC, and the whole state
of Florida. So, with the rave culture taking off
as it has, electronica, whatever you want to call
it, industrial has taken a nosedive. I see it in the
whole country, but some cities are way worse
than others.

Fox instance, last time we were in DC we
had 810 people at the Capitol Ballroom, and last
night we we had 147. Raves, however, there
have become hugely popular. And the music
isn’t that different, like Crystal Method versus
youraverage, non-guitar havin’ industrial band,
it’s just that Crystal Method is a little funkier.
But if you go to a rave, you're going to spend
forty or fifty dollars, whereas coming to one of
our shows, for the same amount of money
(actually quite a bit less) you sit in a nightclub
for most of the night; see five bands and walk
out with a t-shirt. With a rave, you go there all
night, see fifteen bands, and do alot of drugs.
That scene has definately taken alot out of the
industrial scene. I would go so far as to say that
industrial music, if it isn’t dead now, which I
consider it is, it will be shortly.

Another part of the reason for that I think
is that there aren’t alot of new bands coming out
that are noteworthy. At the end of the last
decade, in 1989 and 1990, we had Front 242,
meat beat manifesto, Ministry, KMFDM,
SMG, nine inch nails, die Warzau, all great,
big bands. And those bands are still the bands.
There aren’t any new ones. Stabbing West-
ward and Gravity Kills, if you want to call
them industrial, which they really aren’t... but
then again by that same token, neither are we or,
nine inch nails, Whatever you want to call it,
aggro-pop or whatever, Which I think is the
best term to describe it- what we do, what they
[sw and gk] do, what nine inch nails does. But
there aren’t any new bands that are big. The
new bands that come out, like mentallo and the

fixer, they're crap, I mean, call a spade a spade,
they’re just not very good. As a result, the
people who liked this kind of music in 1989 are
all older now. Like myself, in 1989 I was 21,
and now i’m four months shy of being 30, and
I don’t like industrial music any more. I still

Coffeehouse. Coffee. Donuts. 8:15 a.m.-11:30 p.m.
900 Room.
Austin Lowrey Exhibition. It’s art. 10:00 a.m.-6:00
p.m., daily, at the Edward M. Smith Gallery.

Jumpin’ Java. Be there or be square. 7:30 p.m.-12:30
a.m, at the lovely Outpost.

Christmas toons. Charlie Brown and the evil, evil
Grinch. 8:00 p.m.-9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Campus Christmas Party. For the second straight year,
catch your contraceptive. 9:15 p.m.-10:30 p.m. on Cham-
bers Lawn.

21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can.
p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

10:00

Silver Lake Life. It’s in the 900 Room
from 7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m. For more
information, contact Student Health
Advisor Lindsay Meyers.

Cold Comfort Farm: It’s amovie. See
it. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

‘Campus Christmas rain date. If it

listen to meat beat and front 242, but they aren’t
putting many new records out. So, you have the
whole genre just choking itself.

And that’s cool, whatever, I don’t mind,
I can do plenty of things. Sister Machine Gun
will hang around, but we’ re definately going to
change our music quite a bit. We're not going
to be an electronica band, that’s not what we
are, we're a four piece rock combo. But we’re
going to move more towards a songwriting
thing, and change the name to SMG Itd., and
see if we can’t get a little notoriety. I mean,
we're all close to 30, and have families: to
support, and I'd LIKE to sell out. I'd like to
have the opportunity to sell out and get a house
and a car, y'know, because I don’t have either-
and you heard that here first. I’ ve actually been
thinking about it long and hard on this tour,
because every show is just—. Even in Chi-
cago, where we are hugely popular, where we
sell as many records as the rest of the country
combined, and we play this one theater that is
about 1800 capacity, and we've sold it out
seventimes. This time, we only did 900 people,
on Halloween, and that was supposed to be the
best show of the tour. It was kind of disappoint-
ing, but it was no big deal. The only way I'd
know all these things, and be able to adjust
myself accordingly is if 1 was out on tour. And
it’s still fun, I still love my job, I still love
playing music, whether there’s 10 people or
10,000, I don’t mind.

The new album, Metropolis is definately. a
SMG record, but it also has quite a few
things in it that are certainly firsts...

Sure, for this genre, and certainly for us,
the string section, electric slide guitar and what-
not. It was the same thing with Burn, where I
decided | was going to make the kind of music
that I really like to make instead of what I felt

-Ishould make. On both Burn and Metropolis |
‘ended up making a record that was half what I

wanted to dp, and half what I felt like I'm
supposed to do, being a WaxTrax recording
artist, It’s pretty obvious the delineation, on
Burn you have the slower songs, and on Me-
tropolis you have the entire last half of the
album. That’s what I like to do, the slower
funkier soul. The next Sister Machine Gun
record will be all what I like. The next record
will be all that, because the other songs just
don’t get me there anymore, they just aren’t
fulfilling for me, and we don’t even play them
live. [don’t enjoy them, Ido them so that TVT
can say “here’s the new.SMG record.” “Think”
is the best example of that. I was sent back into
the studio to do that, and I wrote it so that the
TVT radio department can have something to
puton the radio, That’s not what I’m about, and
I’m unhappy that I did that, and I refuse to do it
again, I went and listened to the radio, and
decided what a pop song that I would write

* should sound like, and that’s what I did. Which

is wrong, because that’s not me, that’s not this
band. It’s acool song, whatever, and it’s fun to
do live, but I don’t like listening to the record of
It.

Was the Metropolis idea with you from the
beginning, or was that just a name that
seemed to fit once you were done?

Crop Lunch. Eat beans, rice, and
cornbread — yummy! 11:30a.m.-1:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

Kayak rolling. Roll some more kay-
aks. Again.. And again — 7: 30 p.m. in
Cannon Pool.

I had the title and the concept for the ”
album long before I started writing any songs
for it» I spent the entire tour with Drill ard
Chemlab knowing that I was going-into the
studio at the end of it and thinking about how I
wanted everything to be.

One of the scenes from the film Metropolis (a
classsic black and white film made by Ger-
man director Fritz Lang, which deals with
class stuggles and individuality) that came
back to me when I was listening to the album
was the one where the worker has to point the
arms of a clock to different lights to keep the
machine (which serves the upper class) from
exploding. Do you ever feel like that guy?

Oh, that’s the whole point of the album.
Tm not the guy who says, “Oh this is bad, I'd
gotta go tell dad,” I’m the guy f---ing working
the clock. I’ve said this many times, that I keep
the lyrical content vague on purpose, because it
would sound stupid to have a whole album of
songs that say “The music industry sucks, I f—
ing hate myself.” But every lyric I wrote for this
album, [had that in mind. We had a monitor in
the studio with that movie running for three
months, and every time I would look up, it was
there. While the album doesn’t run with the
movie and it isn’t a campy take on it, that was
definately the vibe I was shooting for.

When I last saw SMG (in 1996), you used a
sample from the song “James Brown Is Dead”
by LA Style; what was up with that?

Well, I wrote “James Brown Is Dead.”
That’s me, from way back in the day, pre-Sister
Machine Gun. So, you can blame me for the
whole techno explosion in this country, it’s all
my fault. That was the first big techno song.
I've got a gold record on my wall for that,
whatever. People who know about that some-
times shout it out at shows, and so we’ Il bust out
into a metal version of it or something like that.
There’s no lyrics to it, but there is a version on
the american release of the single, where I sing
and play guitar. It’s quite amusing, acutally, me
singing in my 20-year old voice. It’s pretty
funny so] listen to it now and again just to laugh.

What kind of music do you listen to these
days?

I listen to a lot of pop music. The new
David Bowie album, Garbage, U2, Chris Isaak,
Squeeze, Jamiroquai, and alot of Beatles. The
CDs. that come on every tour are Tom Waits,
Pink Floyd, Beatles, Beatles, more. Beatles,
Underworld, Firewater, which is a badass
album by the guys from Cop Shoot Cop, but it’s
all sea shantys, Cop Shoot Cop, can’t not have
that, Peter Gabriel's greatest hits, John Lee
Hooker for the blues, when I need that, Otis
Redding, who I’m really getting into lately,
Emerson Lake and Palmer for my keyboard
fix, and Herbie Hancock, who I love. No
industrial at all, because I’m really just sick of it.
The WaxTrax records that I like, I've just heard
so many times, so I’ve stopped listening to
them. We use-a MiniDisc player, so [have a
couple of discs I’ve made that are all industrial
classics, and we’ll put those on before a show
sometime. The new Bowie album has been my
favorite for about six months now.

By Eric BorcstRoM
Student Health Advisor

Although Davidson College has
an extremely safe campus, occasion-
ally, bad influences penetrate our ha-
ven. Among the potential evils in-
clude date rape drugs, suchas Rohypnol
and GHB. Rohypnol, the most com-
mon date rape drug, is composed of
fairly common ingredients, and can
cause blackouts and memory loss in its
victims. Mixed with alcohol, its ef-
fects are intensified and can even cause
death. The use of Rohypnol makes
one susceptible to harsh state and fed-
eral penalties.

GHB, however, is only recently
being considered in legislation. As of
December 1; the possession of GHB
will become illegal in North Carolina.
GHB, or Gamma-hydroxybutyrate, is
fairly easy to manufacture, for two of
its main ingredients are vinegar and
salt. GHB is a chemical found in the
human brain. Users claim it offers a
mild euphoria and sometimes height-
ens sexual interest. GHB abuse is on
the rise, particularaly among teenag-
ers and college students because of its
substantial availablity and cheap price.
Nicknames for GHB include Liquid

GHB and Rohypnol

Ecstasy, Liquid X, Georgia Home Boy,
Scoop, and Goop. GHB is considered
‘by some to be a date rape drug.

Serious side effects when GHB
interacts with alcohol can include
cramps, kidney failure, seizure, un-
consciousness, and death. Additional
side affects may include coronary ar-
tery disease, bone pains, fatigue, nau-
sea, vomiting, depression, and high
blood pressure.

Beyond the obvious dissuasion
against the use of these two drugs, we
health advisors hope to warn unsus-
pecting victims. We fear that GHB or
other date rape drugs may already be
on campus. We advise students to
notice who is pouring your drink—
check to make sure it’s a friend. Par-
ticularly when combined with alco-
hol, these substances can cause severe
harm.

Asalways, we welcome the feed-
back of students and faculty. With
this article specifically, we the health
advisors are curious as to whether
students have seen or heard of date
rape drugs or GHB on our campus.
Please send any comments. to The
Student Body c/o Mitch Shores, P.O.
Box 4180.

Bradshaw to give public reading

By Wes.ey H. GoLpsBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

On Tuesday, Dec. 9, junior Will
Bradshaw will give a public reading of
several of-his stories and poems in the
Outpost at 8:00 p.m.

The event will include a viewing
of photographs taken by Bradshaw dur-
ing a six-week tour of Hungary, France,
Britain, and Spain made this past sum-
mer.

Most of the featured literary works

like this before,” he said.

will be related to this same European
excursion,

Bradshaw looks forward to this
unique opportunity to share his work
with others. “I’ve never done anything
“It’s really
frightening, but,it’s really cool at the
same time.”

Bradshaw aspires to compile these
seven works together with his photos in
the compilation 25-30 page portfolio,
which he plans to complete later this
summer.

Celtic music legends
bring flair to Series

Celtic from page 7

Their performance was highlighted
by an arrangement of Van Morrison’s
“Moondance,” which was thankfully
much less obnoxious than the original
version.

The group played it by request,
something that Nightnoise rarely does,
according to Dunning.

Less enthused with Nightnoise’s

performance than with Stewart and
O’Beirne’s, the crowd began to dis-
perse shortly following the penultimate
song. Although moderately well-re-
ceived, Nightnoise was not begged for
an encore in the way that their opening
act was.

This Artists Series concert was the
best one in recent memory, helping
bring attention to the exquisite yet oft-
overlooked genre of Celtic music.

Coffeehouse. Sugar. Fat. Bring it on.
8:15 a.m-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Friday Afternoon Club. Again, drink
because you can. 4:30 p.m.-7:30 p.m.
in the 900 Room.

—

Steele Creek Ramblers. Straight out
of Steele Creek, they’ll ramble. 9:00
p-m.-11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Community Christmas Party. Tasty
treats in the spirit of the season. 2:00
p.m.-4:00 p.m. inthe Union.
Jumpin’ Java. It’s fun. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. in the Outpost.

rained on Tuesday, now is the day to
watch Christmas flicks and catch your
contraceptive. Keep that in mind.

: Ri fe
Jewish worship service. 7:00 p.m.
upstairs in Eumenean Hall.

Cold Comfort Farm. It’s an amazing
movie. Watch it, for the love of God!
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

A medley of various athletic exhibi-
tions. Nothing is going onexcept sports.

. You have no excuse not to go.

Christmas Everglades Trip. Sign up
for only $175. Stop by Davidson Out-
doors or call x2623. January 2nd-8th,
1998. Avoid the snow and start the new
year in Florida.

Optional classes. Not your option.
The professor’s option! Silly fresh-
men.

Jumpin’ Java. Again. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. in the Outpost. :
Massage study break. A sure-fire
ticket to an A. 9:00 p.m.-10:00 p.m. in
the Home Room.

