Outpost delivery going well

*Foster Haselden, chair of the Student Advisory Committee to Auxiliary
Services, reported that the Outpost delivery system has proved a successful
endeavor, making approximately 15 deliveries an hour.

He also reported that all students will receive new Cat cards with one strip
and a hologram photograph starting in the fall semester 1998. Campus vending
machines will be Cat card-accessible at that time.

eMeredith Judy, Chair of the Student Advisory Committee to Residence Life,
said that the lottery will occur earlier this year than in the past in order to better
accommodate students who are not granted first-choice housing. These
students will now be immediately eligible for off-campus housing. RLO is also
working on the possibility of theme housing in Akers, Knox, and Irwin.

President Buster Burk and Vice President Ann Harriot Fisher updated the
SGA on the works of the Priorities Planning Committee, which institutes long-
term goals for Davidson College:

The Committee agreed that Davidson will maintain (1) its status as a liberal
arts, four-year undergraduate college, (2) an institutional focus on academics,
(3) alow student-to-faculty ratio, (4) church relatedness, (5) the Honor System,
(6) fiscal responsibility and dependence on alumni, and (7) appropriate intercol-
legiate athletics.

Davidson will additionally strive to: (1) keep students in on-campus
housing, (2) encourage service and international experiences, and (3) sustain a
gender balance.

Burk also presented several areas which are still under the Committee’s
consideration. He asked for student input on the following:

1. Size: Should Davidson increase its enrollment, thereby inflating the
student population to as much as 2,000, a number comparable to other schools
of Davidson’s caliber? ,

2. Level of Financial Aid: Should Davidson maintain the cap on financial
aid, thereby preserving the base of 60 percent of students who pay full tuition,
yet potentially forgoing economic diversity?

3. Nature and Extent of Diversity: Should Davidson focus its recruiting
efforts in private high schools or on making the College more appealing to
minorities who currently are not attracted to Davidson?

4. Specificity of Intercollegiate Athletics: Should Davidson continue to
allocate 15 percent of its budget (as compared to 2.5 percent at similar schools)
to maintain Division I status?

Burk reiterated Committee plans in other areas such as the utilization of
technology, resource allocation, curricular reform, and the nature of the student
experience.

Burk, Fisher, and Senior Class President Tim Saintsing presented a resolution
which charges Campus Building Services and the Physical Plant Committee to
work with Bob Collins to create and maintain a centrally-located kiosk — most
likely between Belk and Chambers. The motion passed overwhelmingly.

CoMPILED BY JESSICA GOODSON

THE ORDER OF OMEGA Honor SOCIETY
.©Fail 1997 New Memberse

Seth Alley Sigma Phi Epsilon

Jessica Kigazzi Connor House

Emily Eagan Rusk House

Paul Ebner Sigma Phi Epsilon...

Steinen Gerla Rusk House

John Hawk Pi Kappa Alpha

Asa Hercules Phi Gamma Delta

Shakeem Lane Black Student Coalition

Mary Lee Connor House

Alndrew Letizia Sigma Phi Epsilon

Timothy O'Keefe Sigma Phi Epsilon .

Kathleen Palmer Connor House

Hallie Pitkin Rusk House

Loren Ponds Black Student Coalition

Carlo Reynolds Kappa Allpha Order

Anil Thomas Sigma Phi Epsilon

Chris Thunberg Phi Gamma Delta

Jonathan Williams Phi Gamma Delta

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 24, 1997 _

Liberian political prisoner speaks

Amnesty International sponsors lecture

By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

Approximately 30 people attended
a lecture Wednesday featuring Waylee
George of Liberia. His speech was
sponsored by Amnesty International and
hinged on his experience as a political
prisoner in his native country.

George related graphic personal
accounts of the atrocities committed in
Liberia during the 1980s under the ad-
ministration of William Tolbert and
Samuel Doe.

William R. Tolbert ascended to
the Presidency in 1971, following the
death of William Tubman shortly after
his election to a seventh term as presi-
dent. During his regime, the Progres-
sive Alliance of Liberia (PAL) was
formed,a political party which strove to
bridge the gap between Americo-
Liberian (freedmen from the United
States) and “Country People” (aborigi-
nal Liberians).

Americo-Liberians and their de-
scendants had imposed a kind of apart-
heid on indigenous tribes, generating
tension between the two groups for de-
cades.

George was involved in the orga-
nization and development of PAL, and
served as its Secretary General in the
late 1970s. In 1979, members of PAL

staged a peaceful demonstration chal-
lenging the high cost of rice, the staple
of Liberia. Tolbert dispatched soldiers
who opened fire on the demonstrators,
killing 40 of George’s colleagues,
In 1980, native Liberian (and
member of the minority Krahn tribe)
Samuel K. Doe led a coup to overthrow
the American-descended President,
imposing martial law. Doe was no more
humane than Tolbert had been, system-
atically killing his opposition. Between
1980 and 1985, Doe slaughtered many
“rebels” from Tolbert’s administration.

In 1985, a new constitution re-
stored civilian elections, but Doe falsi-
fied the results of the election, thereby
remaining in power.

George became a marked man for
refusing to vote because, he said, he
knew it was rigged.

In November 1985, another coup
attempt was staged to lure dissidents
into publicly decrying Doe. Noncon-
formists were taken prisoners, stripped,
beaten, and often murdered. If it were
not for pressure from the international
community, George — who was jailed
at this time — would have died.

George expressed his gratitude for
international intervention: “The inter-

national community was aware. It gave

us hope, something to hold on to. Then
I knew that someone was aware I was in

(prison). They were asking what the
conditions were, who was still alive.”

But he also criticized the United
Nations for not effecting justice as
readily as Non-Governmental Organi-
zations such as Amnesty International.
According to George, the United Na-
tions needs to improve in three areas:
the enactment of human rights policy,
earnest and committed enforcement of
such policies, and exerting political pres-
sure on foreign governments that op-
press their citizens.

Too often, he said, big govern-
ments make a profit selling weapons to
rulers who oppress their people. If they
have no weapons, they have no means
of acting on their threats.

“They should send weapons of
construction like books, and not weap-
ons of destruction like guns,” he said.

George is now a teacher at the
Friends School in Atlanta. He travels
around to support Amnesty groups as
living testimony to their effectiveness.
George said he will go back to Liberia
someday, despite his negative experi-
ences. He hopes to take his children to
see Liberia when there is no longer a
threat to his life.

“From the depths of my heart |
thank you for saving my life,” George
said.

“If you breathe out, I breathe in.”

Rotary Grants awarded
Professor, two students honored

By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

Lakhi Sabaratnam, an associate
professor in the Sociology department,
received a $10,000 Rotary International
grant to teach anthropological research
methods and theory at the University of
Madras in India next year.

Sabaratnam recently received the
grant at a Rotary district banquet for
showing a desire to build international
understanding and friendship, and be-
cause he fits the Rotary model of put-
ting “service above self.” q

The Rotary scholarship supports
strengthening international awareness
and higher education in low-income
countries.

Sabaratnam teaches courses focus-
ing on South Asia and co-sponsors the
South Asian Studies concentration at
Davidson. A course he will teach next

semester is entitled “Being Asian in
America.”

According ‘to Sabaratnam, many
anthropologists in India are worried
about the effects technology and

economy have in the cultural beliefs
and habits of their country.

They wonder how substantially
rapid advances in technology will af-

: fect cher-
ished values
and behav-
iors.

In_ his
grant appli-
cation,
Sabaratnam
said, “It is
important to
observe,
record, and
interpret
these cul-
tures and
help mediate these changes through the
various cultural lenses so that personal
stress is reduced and culture is pre-
served, but adaptively so.”

At the University of Madras,
Sabaratnam will teach anthropology
students newer methodologies that will
enhance their existing knowledge of
their culture, and assist them in study-

@ Sabaratnam

ing and recording it.

In addition, he hopes to research
the shrine of Nagur Vallal, a Muslim
saint whose shrine is visited by Mus-
lims, Hindus, Buddhists, Christians, and
other religious groups, as well.

Two Davidson students also re-
ceived Rotary scholarships.

Seniors Nathan Raley and Wesley
Hart were chosen from 10 finalists to
receive Ambassadorial Scholarships for
study at an international university.

Raley plans to study at the Univer-
sity of Provence in Aix-en-Provence,
France, next year.

Hart will attend either the Univer-
sity of the Western Cape or the Univer-
sity of Capetown in Capetown, South
Africa, to study political science after
graduating. : fae ve

Both Raley and Hart will build on .
experiences they had during the fall
semester of their junior years, when
they studied abroad in the same coun-
tries.

Information from the Chronicle
was used in this report.

By SaraAH OGDEN
News Editor

Last Thursday, tables and tents
were set up on Chambers lawn as
Davidson College and the American
Cancer Society encouraged smokers
to ‘go cold turkey” as part of the Great
American Smokeout.

The event encourages smokers
to quit for one day in hopes that it will
lead to a non-smoking lifetime.

This is the second year the na-
tionwide event has taken place at
Davidson. ;

The goal of the Smokeout, said
Health Educator Georgia Ringle, was
to raise “awareness on campus” as to

Great American Smokeout a tough campaign
American Cancer Society visits campus

the dangers of smoking.

Even “social smokers” (those who
smoke only on weekends or in social
situations) are at risk. Because nicotine
is highly addictive, smoking could eas-
ily become habit-forming even for those
who smoke only occasionally.

Chambers lawn was chosen as the
location for the Smokeout because
people tend to smoke on the steps in
front of Chambers, according to Ringle.

“We try to go where the smokers
are,” she said.

Ringle said that she was more im-
pressed by student involvement in the
event than by faculty participation,
which was somewhat lacking.

The tents drew some smokers, but

most were nonsmokers who wanted
to help their friends quit, she contin-
ued.

‘Students who visited the
Smokeout tents were given survival
kits, including information on the dan-
gers of smoking and how to quit, and
candy as a substitute for cigarettes.

There was also a lung capacity
test available, which measures the
amount of air lungs take in during one
breath.

Additionally, in the theme of “go
cold turkey,” Vail Commons donated
turkey sandwiches to the event.

-“T think it went well,” Ringle
said. “I’m real pleased with it. I just
think it’s a tough campaign.”

