The Goodwin-Exxon Awards — Established by Henry S. Goodwin of
the Class of 1930 and Claire Goodwin and funded in part by the Exxon
Education Foundation, these awards go annually to a sophomore, a junior,
and a senior adjudged to exemplify the highest standards of character, good
sportsmanship, and consideration of others.

Class of 1998 — Joy Michelle Sparks
Class of 1999 — Brian Gillis Campbell (abroad)
Class of 2000 — Andrew Scott Holbrook

Patterson Court Council House Excellence Awards — Given each fall by the
council to recognize outstanding achievements in the areas of service, spirit,
and scholarship demonstrated by the members of Patterson Court organi-
zations.

For Scholarship — Connor House and Sigma Phi Epsilon
Belk Cup for Scholarship — Connor

For Service — Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Rusk
Honorable Mention: Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji)

For Spirit — Rusk
Honorable Mention: Warner Hall

The Alumni Association Freshman Award — Presented annually
since 1917 to the sophomore who attained the highest academic average
during the freshman year.

James Wilson White, III

Thomas Jefferson Award — Established by the Robert Earll McConnell
Foundation, presented annually to a faculty member who by personal
influence, teaching, writing, and scholarship promotes the high ideals of
Jefferson and who has given generously and well beyond the call of duty.

Robert Chadwell Williams

The R. Stuart Dickson Professorship — This professorship was
established in 1994 by the Dickson Foundation and the Ruddick Corporation
to honor longtime Davidson trustee R. Stuart Dickson, Class of 1951.

Julio J. Ramirez

ALTERNATIVE BREAKS

Sign-ups for the upcoming alternative breaks for the spring were due on Oct.
30. However, more trips are being planned and new ideas are welcome. Contact
Bill Abrams at x2460 with questions or ideas. Get involved in community service
this spring break abroad or in the U.S. :

CLOTHING DRIVE

Friendship Baptist Church is holding a clothing drive to provide relief for
people in Liberia. Liberia is recovering form a recent civil war and is in dire need
of relief in any form. If anyone can provide clothing, a box will be located in the
union basement outside of Bill Abrams office. Boxes will also be located in the
Union pit Nov. 3-7 for a clothing drive to benefit the Room in the Inn program.

| INTO THE STREETS

Running through Sunday, this is an annual program of two weeks worth of
service opportunities designed to create awareness for service. ITS also serves
to unite students and community while educating about problems society faces
today. Projects will range from working on habitat houses to painting the
construction wall. For more information, contact Emily Katzfey at x6185 or
Andrew Letizia at x6568.

PROJECT LIFE
Don't forget, the annual bone marrow drive will be Nov. 18-19 in the Union.

INTERNSHIPS .
If you are interested, now is not too early to plan one. Call career services
at x2492 or Bill Abrams at x2460 for leads and opportunities.

Services Needed:

¢Playground developers — Susan Yaguda of the Children’s School House at 948-
4547

*High School Tutor — Tamara Wilson at 664-3807

*Male Tutor for 10-year-old boy — Liz Thomason at 896-7591

Mentors for three children (two boys, one girl) — 895-9403

Tutor for 11-year-old girl — Deborah Ihle at 947-9191

*Big Brother for 5th grader — Linda Nutt at 892-1959

Tutor in Math and Science for 8th grader — Debra Black at 892-6118

¢Math Tutor for young girl — Debbie Barnett at 892-2067

eTutor for 12th grade boy — Helen Smith at 892-9962

¢Tutor needed — Christina McElroy at 664-4369

¢Morning Preschool Teachers — Candice Tritle of Bethel Presbyterian Church at
896-3103 ;

Tutor needed to supervise homework time for two children (10 and 9 years old)
in reading and math (paid) — call Mr. or Mrs. Dominic at 662-6544 after 6:30 p.m.

Cowpitep By Mike Brapy

Woot es 7 Cle ee a

By SarAH OGDEN
News Editor

As part of Into the Streets and in
conjunction with Room in the Inn, Jim
Gabriels spoke about homelessness to a
small crowd Thursday in the Morrison
Room. :

Gabriels, who has been working
with many of Charlotte’s homeless men
for the past five years, centered his talk
around the causes of homelessness and
what to expect when Davidson begins
its Room in the Inn program in January.
He also answered questions from the
audience.

Gabriels began by defining
homelessness as a state “where people
find themselves consistently without
shelter.” He went on the say that “no-
body understands homelessness very
well.”

The causes, he said, include “ur-

ban redevelopment,” during which

“crummy” neighborhoods are torn down
and upscale offices and housing are
constructed, thereby destroying the
“neighborhood network,” the commu-
nity and the safety nets it provides.

Another cause, according to
Gabriels, is the federal government. In
the not-too-distant past, the Housing
and Urban Development budget was
slashed by eight percent, which created
a shortage of inexpensive housing.

These factors combined to create
an absence of affordable housing for
those with low incomes, turning people
who can’t pay higher rents out onto the
streets. ;

Also, “real wages” have been fall-
ing since the 1800s, and manufacturing
jobs have increasingly gone overseas,
combining to produce lower incomes

TUESDAY, NO

Gabriels speaks on Charlotte homelessness
Discusses causes, possible solutions

and less. employment for blue-collar
workers, Gabriels said.

Gabriels also pointed out that, “for
a lot of people, life stinks.”. People lose
things, he said, such as spouses, chil-
dren, self-esteem, sometimes even their

sanity, and not everyone picks up the ©

pieces quickly or in conventional ways.
This, too, can sometimes lead to
homelessness.

Another cause of homelessness
Gabriels spoke about was substance
abuse, primarily centering around alco-
hol and crack cocaine. ‘‘Cheap wine”
and “liquid crack” (a potent alcoholic
beverage), he said, are the most com-
mon choices, because of their low cost.

Drunk homeless people are often

_robbed, Gabriels said, because others

know that, in order to be drunk, the
homeless must have money with which
to buy alcohol. This leads to their being
“rolled” almost every time they receive
money.

Crack is also inexpensive to buy,
Gabriels pointed out, and it provides a
“good,” immediate high.

It also “creates a reality that’s a
little less painful,” Gabriels said. Crack
is, however, “extremely addictive,”
which forces addicts to find money
wherever possible, including from
friends and family. :

When addicts repeatedly fail to
pay back their “loans,” they lose their
support networks, leaving them virtu-
ally alone and without resources on the
streets.

Obviously, addicts also run the
risk of being arrested, said Gabriels,
which»makes it difficult to work and
make money, and consequentially, more
difficult to get off the streets. ’

Finally, Gabriels said, the most

BER 4, 1997

BS

problematic cause of homelessness is
poor education, Educating adults is
difficult to do, because they are simul-
taneously trying to find a job, leave the
shelter, and possibly overcome sub-
stance abuse, Gabriels said. Attempt-
ing to achieve one of these goals at,a
time is hard enough, but taking on all
three plus schooling simply isn’t realis-
tic for most.

Gabriels went on to speak about
Room in the Inn — specifically, what to
expect when Davidson begins taking in
five of the program’s homeless on week-
ends beginning in January. Gabriels
said that there is a screening process to
eliminate the mentally ill, substance
abusers, and “bad actors.” However, he
said, “I hope at some point you will
decide to (deal with those people).”

Despite the screening process and
weapons check each candidate will un-
dergo, Gabriels urged volunteers in the
program to “get acquainted with the 9-
11 system” and to learn to take “univer-
sal precautions” against blood-borne
pathogens, such as HIV and hepatitis B.

He expects the biggest problems
to be medical in nature, for example -
toothaches, tuberculosis, and seizures,
though Gabriels also discussed the rela-
tively slight chance of fighting among
the homeless.

One audience member asked
Gabriels if he had any solutions to
homelessness. More low-income hous-
ing and legalizing drugs were two ideas
he offered.

When asked why Gabriels dedi-
cated himself to helping the homeless,
he simply said, “I enjoy it.”

It’s such an easy thing to do to help *
people,” Gabriels added..““You always

-get more back than you give into it.”

Architecture and the environment
bring community service to English 101

By SarAH OGDEN
News Editor

Assistant Professors of English
Annie Ingram and Suzanne Churchill
have put a new twist on English 101:
each has
added a
service
compo-
nent to se-
lected
classes.

Churchill
said that
service is
“less part
of the fun-
damental
course”

@ Ingram
than 9

_ supple-

mentary part of it. Her 101 course,

_entitled “Writing as Architecture,” deals

‘with the relationship between architec-
ture and writing. Texts include litera-
ture and films centered around archi-

‘ tecture, especially houses.

Churchill plans to draw parallels
between writing and architecture
through the ways buildings communi-
cate and the architecture of writing..

The semester will progress to the
issue of homelessness, and will culmi-

nate in a research paper on homeless
issues.

Students.in the class will also be
required to perform about 15 hours of
community service.

Churchill sees the Writing as Ar-
chitecture class as a“‘movementtoward
having more range” in basic composi-
tion classes, but said that the class still
emphasizes writing.

Churchill taught a version of the
class at Princeton University, but Ingram
“gets credit for thinking of the service
component,” Churchill said.

Churchill hopes to attract people
who are interested in architecture and
service, and who “want to explore is-
sues of homelessness.” She expects the
class’s popularity to depend on how
well it is publicized.

Despite her enthusiasm forhernew —

class, Churchill said she hopes some
people will continue to take the tradi-
tional 101 class because, for some, the
traditional route may be more effective.

Ingram’s class, which began last
fall, deals with environmental writing,
and unlike Churchill’s class, service is
a central part of the course.

Ingram said she got the idea for
classes with service from a series of
workshops conducted on the same topic

. forfaculty in the spring of 1996. Ingram

developed her class over the summer by
combining a version ofa class she taught

at Emory University with the new idea
of service.

Students will be required to per-
form 25 hours of community service in
the environmental field, including work-
ing to establish and maintain an organic
community garden in Davidson and be-
coming involved withthe Environmen-
tal Action Coalition or the Sierra Club’s
Inner City Outings program.

In the past, the class, which has a
ceiling of 15, has proven to be popular,
according to Ingram. At least, “that’s
what people tell me,” she said.

“It has
attracted
fabulous
people,”
Ingram
added.
Many stu-
dents in
Poa: 8...
classes
have been
interested
inlearning
mo-re
about en-

’ vironmen-
tal issues, but not all — or even most —
have been English majors.

“Writing is a really important
skill,” said Ingram, who hopes to make
it enjoyable for everyone.

*

@ Chruchill

LAYOUT.

BECAUSE IT LOOKS GOOD ON A RESUME
If interested call Randy Skattum (x6667)

