THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & Livinc

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 1997

International Festival brings world to Davidson
Event gives students a chance to experience other cultures

By JENNIFER MILLER
Staff Writer

a he annual International Festival
on Saturday transformed the
Union into a German market-
place, an African countryside, a Turk-
ish shore, and more.

The festival is organized by the
International Students Association and
took weeks of planning, not to mention
special shopping trips to Charlotte for
hard-to-find spices.

Visitors received passports at the
door. Students, faculty and townspeople
of all ages enjoyed the festival. (Half of
the people in the 900 room were less
than three feet tall.)

International students represented
30 countries with a booth for each coun-
try. Each booth had information about
its country, native food, pictures, maps,
and featured students in traditional dress.

Among the delicacies were real
Sushi with four different kinds of fish,
Swedish Negerbollar (chocolate balls
covered in coconut), Japanese sticky
rice balls in sweet bean sauce, and home-
made Russian beet salad.

The booths also tried-to educate
and increase awareness. There was
information on environmental issues
and current political issues. At the Ko-
rean booth, for instance, there was a
huge “World Cup 2002 Korea” sign.

There was also plenty of propa-

ganda and information about study
abroad programs sponsored by
Davidson.

Onthe map of Germany, there was,
a large arrow pointing to. Wiirzburg,
where the German Department’s Junior
Year Abroad program takes place.

During the parade of nations, a
student representative presented each
country, wearing native dress, carrying
his or her flag, and giving a native
language greeting.

Special performances included
African drums, played by students Jer-
emy Tarr and Annie Carr, classical Japa-
nese folk songs, the Davidson club Dahn
Hak (the Taoist Study of Energy), a
Russian poetry reading and singing of a
Tetris-sounding Russian folk song —
Kotyusha — and dancers from Ghana
dancing Adoaw and Abatampa.

A very special dance group was
the Hmong Dance Troupe, a group of
six girls. The Hmong people, originally
from China, have immigrated to na-
tions around the world after years of
persecution — some landing in nearby
Charlotte.

With the soon-to-come handing ~
back of the first-yearstudents’ interna-
tional awareness tests, the International
Festival could not have come at a better
time. Much more than a free lunch, the
International Festival created a new
world with vivid colors, rich scents, and
penetrating music.

pores

“Bill Giduz
@ Na Mi Kina and Meesun Sim, both freshmen, serve some Korean cuisine at the “
International Festival Saturday in the Union.

Karamazov Bros. to strut stuff
Unorthodox comedy routine tonight

By Wes-ey H. Go_psBerry
Arts & Living Editor,

For those of you who missed the juggling festival
last month, the Davidson College Artists Series will
present an opportunity for you to appease the juggling
gods in full.

The Flying Karamazov Brothers, acomedic quar-
tet of jugglers and aspiring musicians, will bring their
critically-acclaimed stage show to Love Auditorium
tonight at 8:00 p.m.

Currently residing near Seattle, the “FKB” con-
verged during their matriculation at the University of
California at Santa Cruz, and have been performing
together for about two decades since.

Their shows normally last about two hours and
contain an impressive array of talents, including jug-
gling obscure and life-threatening objects, playing
simplistic musical instruments, and pulling amusing
pranks of every description.

Tuesday’s act, entitled “Sharps, Flats, and
Accidentals,” will be similar to the Brothers’ other
choreographed shows in its inclusion of their famous
“Gamble.” In this test of coordination, brother Ivan

perform tonight in Love Auditorium.

Karamazov accepts a challenge to juggle any three
objects with which the audience supplies him.

The objects must be between one and 10 pounds
and be no larger than-“‘the size of a breadbox.” If Ivan
can juggle the chosen objects for 10 consecutive
seconds, then he mandates a standing ovation from the
audience. Should he fail, a fellow brother slaps him in
the face with a cream pie furnished by the performers
themselves.

The “Gamble” was once accomplished juggling
a lit birthday cake, a hanging plant, and an open
Tupperware bow! full of spaghetti.

The group takes occasional pauses from their
stunts to perform both traditional and original music
compositions.on such instruments as the xylophone,
drums, and the “electronic helmet.”

They have also starred in the Hollywood film
“Jewel of the Nile,” and won an Emmy award for their
PBS special, “The Flying Karamazov Brothers: Stars
of New Vaudeville.”

So bring some tossable objects with you to Love
Auditorium and gear up for a night of jest, courtesy of
the unrelated, non-Russian Karamazovs.

Admission is $8.

@ The Karamazov Brothers, experts in sical among other things, will

Widespread Panic hits Greensboro

@ Widespread Panic played at the Greensboro Coliseum Friday
night.

By Coppy CopDINGTON
Staff Writer

GREENSBORO — Of course the show was absolutely stupendous, but let me set the
stage for everyone. :

If you have never experienced the music of Widespread Panic, it is surely something you
should hear. Ata typical concert, they play several songs off of their CDs, and then add five
to 10 minutes of instrumentals.

Now, if one was to stereotype, he or she would say that freaks, hippies, stoners, or dope
fiends are the only ones who would attend. He or she would be partially right.

However, the most interesting part of the night was my arrival at the Greensboro Coliseum
Complex. As I paid the parking fee, I noticed that the cars next to me had dark tinted windows.
I thought nothing of it and continued on toward my parking spot.

I stepped out. I heard some heavy bass coming from one direction and Widespread from
the other. As I walked toward the will call window, I noticed a stream of nicely dressed people
who all looked to be going somewhere. But to Widespread?

My questions were all answered when the lady in the ticket booth told me there was
another concert there Saturday night: Busta Rhymes and Erykah Badu. I wish I could give a
report on that as well, for 1 am a fan of Erykah and some of Busta Rhymes’s songs.

Onto the concert: It was epic. Imagine one of your favorite groups, whom you are used
to seeing at venues such as Blockbuster Pavilion, and seeing them in a hall a little smaller than
Love Auditorium. The songs came from a range of their CDs.

‘The first set was incredible — I was psyched beyond eecupdan (partly because I hadn’t
seen Widespread in a good nine months).

The second set had to be the best set of music I have ever héard them play and it was capped
off by a 10-minute bongo solo. The rest of the band left the stage, a maneuver similar to one
I saw at a 311 show earlier this year in Raleigh. They then finished the confert during their
encore after one song because a loyal fan ran on stage and gave the Widespread bassist a hug
and a peck on the cheek.

This was my fifth time seeing them play and will probably be the most memorable. I

-| would retommend any of theiralbums to others — or even better; seeing them live.

