,
f

_” TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1997

‘Christmas tree hunting should be banned.

A tale of Yuletide male family bonding in the wilderness

an you remember the first
time you helped your par
ents pick out a Christmas
tree? My earliest recollec-
tion of the ordeal takes me back to a
parking lot in Oak Ridge, Tenn.

STupent CoLumn
Britton Taylor

I had popped a peppermint candy
into my mouth and was skipping around
the trees when suddenly the peppermint
slipped down into my throat. Irantomy
parents, pointing at my neck and gasp-
ing for air.

My parents had a unique tactic for
dealing witha choking child. My mother
freaked out. She grabbed my waist and
elevated me several feet in the air be-
fore slamming my legs to the ground.
She repeated this process numerous
times, as if I were a piston.

My dad, on the other hand, be-
came violent. He straightened out his
hand, reared back, and fired bone crush-
ing chops to the center of my back. I
was lucky to vomit the damn pepper-
mint before he broke my spine.

Through misty eyes, I remember
the crowd that had gathered to watch
the spectacle of a mother bouncing her
little boy, while his father took karate
shots at his backside.

A social worker appeared at our
house the following day prepared to
take me away, but my father insisted
that I was not being raised, as she put it,
“in a questionable environment.”

Inhigh school, my father was abit
more ambitious when it came. to hunt-
ing for a Yuletide tree. Finding a tree
had now become an all-day excursion.

What was even more mysterious in my
mind was how finding that perfect tree
became, for him, somehow directly pro-
portional to manliness — the harder we
worked, the more we sweat, the better
the tree would look in our living room.

The “day” began when my father
woke my brother and I up at 7 a.m. ona
Sunday morning and loaded us into his
four-wheel-drive truck, along with
Malcolm, our black lab, and a few shot-
guns (“Just in case.”).

I slept for the majority of the time
it took to get to a “good spot” in the
Sierras. Invariably, we would get stuck
in the snow, and my father would make
his two little men get out and push. The
more the tires spun, the better our tree
would be.

When the truck finally stopped
climbing the mountain, we donned our
tree hunting gear: axes, saws, binocu-
lars, snowshoes, icepicks, oxygen tanks,
first aid kit, and a few trial ornaments
(usually broken sand-dollars).

Once we got suited up, the hike
would begin. My father had no idea
where he was, but he was sure the
perfect tree was out there — some-
where far away. The farther we hiked,
the better the tree would look in our
living room.

We hiked 10.or 12 miles. Occa-
sionally, my father would pull out the
binoculars, scouting the land ahead.
Meanwhile, Malcolm had ventured off
in search ofa mountain lion. My brother,

too, was missing. He developed a se- -

vere case of hypothermia and wandered
off. We later found him shivering in an
alpine lake, humming the words of
Firehouse songs through his blue lips.

Anyhow, we eventually found the
tree. It was 25 feet tall, 10 feet wide, had
5 branches, and weighed 250 pounds. I

do believe it was a jumbo version of the
one Charlie Brown had.

Regardless, it was the tree for us,
and my dad pulled out his tree cutting

. permit and “tagged” the thing, as if the

game warden was going to stop us on
the way down to check and see if our
catch met all the proper regulations. It
took us about an hour to chop that
redwood down.

Well, dragging the colosiie back
to the truck was by far the worst part of

and go look for him.

By the time we finally did get
home, it was Monday, and I had missed
half a day of school. In addition, I had
grown my first beard and had devel-
oped an ugly case of gangrene that
stretched the length of my left leg. My
brother was still humming the words to
Firehouse songs, and my dog had been
mangled by some voracious beast. The
tree had to be cut in half — twice — just
to fit in the front door.

“My father had no idea where he was, but he was sure ther
perfect tree was out there — somewhere far away. The
farther we hiked, the better the tree would look...”

the day. My father made me lie on my
stomach in the snow and point my arms
out in front of me. He then tied the tree
to my back, making me some sort of a
human sled.

My brother, still a bit stiff from the
lake, would have to drag the two of us
(me and the tree) all the way back fo the
truck while my father yelled directions
from behind.

Finally arriving at the awaiting
vehicle, it took us yet another hour to
get the thing tied down in the bed. By
now, I must mention, it was dark-and
very, very cold. The more toes we lost,
the better the tree would look in our
living room.

The smile on my father’s face in-
creased in width the closer we got to
home. He had raised two strapping
young men. And then he would re-
member that we had left the dog in the
hills chasing that mountain lion. We
would, of course, have to turn around

In case you hadn’t figured it out
yet, I’m nota big fan of Christmas trees.
I think that played a large part in my
decision tocome all the way to Davidson
for school — I knew I wouldn’t be at
home when it came time to go out and
get one.

Well, imagine the horror that en-
veloped me over Thanksgiving break,
however, when I was told that I had to
accompany my friend’s family on their
annual tree hunt. I nearly fainted.

I was relieved, though, when I
learned that we were just going to a
nearby church parking lot. I checked
my pockets for peppermints to make
sure I was safe.

My friend’s family, I am sorry to
say, proved to me that there is no easy
way to secure a tree. They roamed the
lot for almost three hours. No tree was
tall enough. No tree was full enough.
And when they finally found one to
their liking, they decided the price was

too high.

They haggled over the price of a
Christmas tree for Heaven’s Sake! What
more did they want? The damn tree was
cut for them and everything. All they
had to do was pay for it and put it on top
the car!

I searched for a peppermint to put
an end to my misery but was unsuccess-
ful. I had to suffer yet again.

I, the wise man, can think of three
methods to remedy this terrible Christ-
mas tree situation. I submit them to you
as a challenge. Somebody ought to
form an ad-hoc committee. Get Buster
on the line. Here goes:

1. A special show on the Home
Shopping Network devoted entirely to
Christmas trees. All you would néed to
order one would be a credit card and a
telephone. You would not have to leave
the comfort of your home!

2. Eliminate the idea of the Christ-
mas tree entirely and exchange it for a
big fat turkey. Which would you rather
do? Hang ornaments on a tree, or fill
yourself silly with bird? I thought so.

3. Impose a federal law that would
make all U.S. citizens Jewish or Bud-
dhist. Upon conversion, all families
would receive, free of charge, a free
menorah or a Buddha statue. I'd take
the Buddha because you can rub his
belly. Problem solved.

When you go home for Christmas
break, I want you to take a nice long
look at your Christmas tree. Then I
want you to ponder the countless hours
it took to put that thing in your living
room. How many more toes will be lost
before somebody makes a change?

Join me in the fight to ban the
Christmas tree from the planet. It would
make everyone happier, and our lives
would be the better for it.

A smile in Chambers
Show your school spirit

Serving big brother
The choice between freedom and slavery

s the Mountain Dew man has to drop
off a new shipment of that energy-
in-abottle every half hour so we can
all stay awake for the last two weeks
of the semester, I just wanted to talk a little bit
about school spirit.

A while back, I
went down withacouple
of my friends to the Au-
burn-Alabama game in
Auburn, Ala. We were
met by 85,000 fans, the
Montagues and the Capulets of today.

There was nothing but inbred hatred for'the
other team, and undying love for one’s own clan.
I loved seeing how thrilled everyone was to be

But when over half of the student body
shows up for the Davidson-Wake Forest basket-
ball game Wednesday night, that shows a heck of
a lot of school spirit, and I love being a Wildcat.

As we all ride into the Valley of Chambers
this week, continue to show your school spirit
just by helping support
your peers, who have

you do — plus five ex-
ams.
Say hello to people
as you pass them and smile.
It’ll say “I’m on your side and we’re going
to get through this and it’s all going to be cool,
real cool, in a matter of days.”

there, seeing Go to the
and taking part : study breaks that
he aa on Davidson’s no Auburn in terms of school spirit, oe Unieh sand

— r) other organiza-
vee eine but Wake game showed we’re not half bad. Hone. crowds.
of burgundy or Get down and
orange skin — get dirty and get

to victory. It was a great weekend.

And with all of that, we returned to Davidson
to get down and get busy.

We all thought about our own school spirit
here at Davidson, and how it’s not as huge as
Auburn’s.

going, but don’t get the tunnel vision so badly
that all you see is you and your exams.

Try to remember that everybody else is in
the same boat, charging into the same valley.

Asmile at 4:00 a.m. in 1 Chambers can really

do some good.

just as much stuff as ©

arlier this week, while I was busy worrying about exams, I stumbled upon

something that really worried me: a belief in totalitarian governments. I

had been having an interesting conversation about the effectiveness of

charity compared to government redistribution when I was informed that
the government owned everything and that only because of its beneficence are we
allowed to keep property.

So if the government decided to take my paycheck and give it to someone else,
it had the right to do so.

‘Quite frankly, I-couldn’t believe my ears. I have no right to property? The
government owns everything, and I’m only allowed to keep it? The government
owns my dog, nyc car, my house, my life? All of the things I have worked for aren’t
really mine? They’rejuston

loan to be repos- sessed at will?
This is a good thing?
Do we re- ally want to

live in a totalitar- ianregime? Or

do we want only enough gov-
ernment to preserve liberties like private property and autonomy? Do we want a
government that we serve, or a government that serves us? Do we want a government
that owns us, or a government that we own? Do we want slavery or freedom?

Do we want to live in the kind of country where individuals are subordinates of
a government that dictates their possessions and actions?

Or do we want a place where the value of life, liberty, and property are still
recognized?

I think everything that makes life worth living demands that I be free — free to
own and control my property, and, most importantly, free to own and control my life.

Maybe my friend was right. How can I claim that my possessions were mine to
keep or disperse? My life isn’t even my own.

I’m only here to serve Big Brother.

It’s the small things that make this world
fer. Layout is a small thing.
Call Randy Skattum at x6667.

