THE DAVIDSONIAN

Lecturer traces history
of Chinese ethics

By Kurt FesenmMyver
Guest Writer

Dr. Philip Ivanhoe, assistant
professor of Philosophy and Reli-
gious Studies at Stanford Univer-
sity, concluded the lecture series
“China, Japan, and Korea: Thought
and Culture Today” with his lecture
“Modeling the Sages: Moral Im-
provement in Chinese Thought” last
Monday.

Most Western views of moral
thought are achieved by means of
direct (divine) revelation, cultivated
divine revelation, or by determin-
ing or discovering certain universal
and rational realities.

Chinese moral thought devel-
oped in a different manner: through
the sages, the interpretive histori-
ans who compiled lessons and solu-
tions to moral quandaries.

Ivanhoe traced the develop-
ment of the idea of virtue through
the Confucian, Taoist, Buddhist,
Neo-Confucian, and Marxist tradi-
tions.

Confucian moral thought pri-
oritized society and family, stress-
ing acting out of virtue. The sages
of Confucian China acted as moti-

vational models, radiating “te,” or
“moral charisma,” a virtuous power.

Taoists see this as destructive
and deceptive to our basic nature.
These sages set standards and in-
spire action rooted in spontaneity
and sensitivity.

The Buddhist teachers, or
“coaches,” seeking to remove the
pain from lives, not question its
origins, urge therapy over theory
and prepare their followers for in-
creasingly esoteric truths.

Neo-Confucians saw moral and
virtue ethics in a contextual light,
rejecting the written lessons and
urging experiential encounters with
our inner virtues.

The most recent tradition in
Chinese ethics, Marxism, seeks to
tid society of its bourgeois habits.
Marxist “sages” can be seen as po-
litical “bodhisattvas,” remaining in
this world, leading others in pro-
gression and service for Party and

people.

All cultures teach moral exem-

plars.

While much of the West fo-
cuses on the Word, the Chinese use
deeds as exemplars, stimulating
action.

Information superhighway
gets closer with Ethernet

By Cay LENHART
Web Page Manager

After much anticipation, Irwin,
Knox, and Akers Dorms were wired
on April 3 for Internet access.

To connect to the World Wide

. Web, Information and Technologi-
cal Services will offer two different
services. .

One way to merge onto the
information super-highway is via
the Ethernet, but unfortunately, ev-
ery computer using the Ethernet
must be equipped with a special
Ethernet card.

Computer Services Center is
planning to install this card in
Sentelle and possibly Belk,
Richardson, or Martin Court F over
the summer. After these dorms,
Little, Watts and Cannon will be
wired; finally, the rest of Martin
Court, Duke and Lingle Manor.

There are many athletic camps
and academic programs that use
Davidson’s facilities in the sum-
mer, and for this reason all of those
dorms may not be wired.

Even if your dorm will not be
wired, there is an alternative: Bell
South.Net using a modem.

Information and Technologi-
cal Services contracted with this
internet provider to economically
give students, staff and faculty the
opportunity to use the Internet.

Like BTI, Bell South.Net will
shut off over break.

Bellsouth.Net offers three pric-
ing plans: 1) 10 hours per month at
$9.95 per month with a one-time
$10 hook-up fee; 2) 60 hours per
month at $12.00 per month with a
one-time $10 hook-up fee; and 3)
unlimited hours at $19.95 per month
with a one-time hook-up-fee. The
first two plans charge $1.00 for

every hour over the limit.

For more infomation, look to
the Internet at:  http://
www.davidson.edu/computing/
support/resnet/ResNet.html.

What is an Ethernet card?

Technology Services (ITS).

ummer.

NEWS
HEFTY RECYCLING

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 1997 5

Bill Giduz

Amanda Walker and Seth Clippard raise awareness about recycling (above). The economics of
environmentalism, recycling, and vegetarianism were some of the topics on the tables of the Union Pation
for Tuesday’s Earth Day celebration. Off-campus groups such as the Sierra Club, the Catawba Lands
Conservancy, and Mecklenberg Waste Reduction set up booths. Davidson organizations participating
included the Environmental Action Committee, the Recycling Committee, and Davidson Outdoors,
Warner Hall, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa Sigma, and Connor House. Georgia Ringle, health educator at the
Student Health Center, set up a booth on “How to be a Healthy Vegetarian” and the Professor of Economics
Dave Martin’s Environmental Economics clase exhibited come of their work from the semester. There
was also a clothing drive sponsored by the Women’s Shelter. Music was contributed by the Davidson trio
Ashley Gribble, Andrew O’ Dell, and Jeff Wong. “Lots of people were out there going to booths and getting
educated about how to become more involved,” says Meredith Judy who helped coordinate the event.
— Allison Dolph, Staff Writer

Anethernet card works like a modem, but about five hundred times faster (10 megabytes per second). Unfortunately, to allow this speed special
Ethernet wires must be installed. If you are interested in buying an Ethemet card, check on the specifics at www.
http://www.davidson.edu/computing/support/resneUResNet.html

Will computers with Windows 3.1 or Windows NT omly be able to connect to the Internet via Ethernet cards?
No, Windows 3.1, 95, NT 3.:51+ and MacOS 7.5.1+ will be able to connect directly to the Internet. Software will be provided by Information

Does RLO plan to inerease the number of phone lines in the senior apartments?

There is talk of increasing the number of phone lines in the senior apartments when wiring the buildings. Unfortunately, more phone lines would
mean an increase in housing cost, which RLO believes that some people would not want. RLO is looking into the administrative costs for allowing
students to choose the number of telephone lines.

Will there be a charge for Ethernet connection?
Mostcolleges charge students for using Ethernet cards whichrange from $25 to$50 asemester. Next year, there will be no extracharge at Davidson,
but fees for the following year have not been finalized.

Will ITS be able to answer my questions regarding Windows 957
ITS willcontinue its current policy of limited support for Windows 95. However, it will provide the same amountof support for ResNetconnections
to Windows 95 as it does for Windows 3.1 and NT.

Is there a way for me to have my own home-page using Davidson’s Web site?

You can have ahomepage right now on Pollux. This, however, has caused the webserver (www.davidson.edu) to be slow. Next year, each student
will have a “Netware” account where we can store homepages that will be separate from the webserver. This will greatly increase the speed of
our homepages as well as the webserver in general. Expect to hear more about your Netware account because it will affect other services as well.

Is there anyone at Davidson who can repair my computer if I didn’t purchase one from the school?.
Yes. Davidson has contracted with a repair technician so that any faculty, staff or student can have repairs made to their computer at a reduced
cost. Contact Connie Dellinger at x2402 for more information.

Will Davidson install an Ethernet card if I provide one?
They, themselves, will not, but the repair technician does Ethemet card installations for $35.

‘Will my Poliux account will! be shut down this summer?
Your poliux account will still be active over the summer, You ean still use (704) 892-2644 or if yon have an internet connection at home, telnet
to pollux.davidson.edu. Be carefull Any account that receives too many messages (uaually from listservs) will be closed for remainder of the

x “ : —
_ Everything you wanted to know about Resnet, but were afraid to ask

|
|
