MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 1997 7

The Distiicaian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Executive Editors Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
JOHN COPENHAVER JEFFERY CROMARTIE CAROLINE BYNUM
MARY CLARE JALONICK
Sports Editors Advertising Managers
Associate Editor WILL BRADSHAW BETH BACON
TERESA WHITE MICHAEL KRUSE MEREDITH LUCIUS
News Editors Photo Editor Circulation Manager
KIRSTEN RECKNAGEL BEN DeLISA McNEIL CARSWELL
RANDY HARTWELL ,
Copy Editors Web Page Managers
Opinions Editors CARRIE BLACKBURN CLAY LENHART
NINA BLOUNT DANIEL MOTZ BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN RICHARDSON ERIC PENDERGRASS
Cartoonist
Arts & Living Editor CHRIS MOORE
SUSAN RUGGIERO

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

~\F EDVARD MUNCH ~
HAD TAKEN PROZAC

LETTERS

The Davidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Lights,

camera, action...

On Journalism

Journalism. A noble profession, yes?

In order to be a good journalist one must stick one’s neck out. One must be willing
to make enemies. One must be willing to tell the whole truth, all of the time.

Are we good journalists?

Davidson College is tough to crack. We, the ones responsible for cracking it, are
given a tough mission — to walk the thin line between sensationalism and indiffer-
ence, exaggeration and respect for one’s community.

Many people at Davidson College do not understand this line. A few sit on one
side (mostly professors), urging us as journalists to act braver, look harder, and give
more energy to our.role in communicating information. But many of you (mostly
students) sit on the other, side, ,admonishing us for going to far, misrepresenting fhe,
truth, and exaggerating the importance of an issue.

You ask, why should anything be “cracked”?

We are here not to break, but to examine, peer in and tell the whole truth. Once
the truth is distorted, then the process is useless.. We know this.

It would be so much easier if more students understood the fundamental concepts
of good journalism without preconceived notions (those created by irresponsible
reporters and corporate television networks). Good journalists do not camp out at the
home of JonBenet Ramsey. They do not report on the color of Michael Jackson’s skin.
They do not assume that Richard Jewell set the bomb. Ay research, and they write
the truth — about important things.

So are we saying that we are good journalists? No, we aren’t necessarily.

We do not have the resources to do so. The Davidsonian has the potential to be a first
class publication, but the Davidson community lacks the energy and passion to give
it the attention it deserves. :

Student reporters are easily discouraged, and we find that few will write long-
term. Most cite studies as their excuse. It is too bad that they fail to recognize how
beneficial a different kind of working and thinking can be.

As our tenure ends, we see a different Davidson. Students are less dedicated to
extracurricular pursuits than they ever have been. Ironically, student publications are
struggling to stay alive in a school that accepts only students with exceptional
intellectual talents. We hope that this will change with increased recognition for all
student activities.

We have been fortunate, however, to work with some very dedicated and skilled
people. Many thanks to all of our wonderful section editors and business staff — we
wish youall well. To Caroline, our business goddess, for keeping us in line and making
sure that we always had a good time. And to Teresa White, our beloved Associate, for
providing the sanity that we needed in all hours of the night.

We now turn itall over (sadly and gratefully) to Teresa, Randy Hartwell, and Matt
Eirich. We know that they will give The Davidsonian a fresh perspective as they
continue to build it into a better newspaper. We have a lot of faith in them and wish
them well. -

So, goodbye. We will miss The Davidsonian and all of the wonderful people we
worked with — on and off the staff. We only hope that in the future students will
continue to be involved enough to benefit from the experience as much as we did.

/
: i (oar

This letter is an open
call to all Davidson students
for a photo shoot this Thurs-
day, January 30, from 1 to 5
p.m., in Chambers Lobby.
Ron Chapple ’79, profes-
sional photographer and
Internet consultant, will be
here to shoot black and white
portraits of students for a
revival of “The Faces of
Davidson” series. We will
use photos from this shoot in
college publications, includ-
ing admission materials, de-.
velopment and alumni pub-
lications, and on a new

.. | Website under development.

for Davidson College.
What do you need to
do? Simply show up in the
Chambers Lobby any time
between 1 and 5 p.m. What
to wear? Whatever you hap-
pen to be wearing that day.
Do you need to bring any-
thing? Yes, friends, room-
mates, hallmates, and class-
mates. We hope to get sev-
eral hundred images in the
can, so we need your partici-
pation. Come one, come all.
PRIZES: after the shoot
we will draw the names of
10 students who participated.
If your name is.drawn, after...

the film is processed we will
send you a FREE 8 x 10
black and white glossy of
yourself just for participat-
ing.

Remember, Thursday,
January 30, 1-5 p.m., Cham-
bers Lobby. If you have
questions, please call me at
x2242.

I look forward to great
participation. See you on
the 30th.

Jerry Stockdale :
‘Director of College
Relations. 21. oa

Lectures

on Truth ¢

& Belief

May bau lente

To the Editors and the
Greater Davidson College
Community: .

This Friday, Jan. 31, at
7:00pm in the Union’s
Morrison Room, James Sire,
Ph.D. will be speaking on
the topic of “Why Should
Anyone Believe Anything
at All?” This involves ac-
tive audience participation
during the lecture as well as
substantial time afterwards
for discussion.

On Saturday, Feb. 1, at
3:00pm, he will be in the
900 Room, speaking on “Re-
ligion and Absolute Truth,”

looking specifically at John
Hick, Sri Ramakrishna and
Richard Rorty’s views of
religious relativism (it’s true
for you but not for me).

This will be Dr.-Sire’s
second visit to Davidson,
having come in 1985.

He has also been a guest
lecturer at over 200 univer-
sities and colleges in North
America and Europe, includ-
ing Swarthmore, Whitman,
Harvard, University of Cali-
fornia at Berkeley, and
Princeton. One of his books,
The Universe Next Door: A
Basic World View Catalog

(IVP, 1988), has been
‘adopted as a text in over a
hundred universities, col-
leges, and seminaries.

Dr. Sire’s time here is
sponsored by Davidson’s
own InterVarsity Christian
Fellowship chapter. Every-
one is invited to what we
hope will be an interesting
and provocative event for
the mind of the Davidson
College Community.

Sincerely,
Macon Stokes

Davidsonian

Valentine’s Day isn’t that far
away. Woo that special
someone The Davidsonian
way, with a Davidsonian
T-shirt. After all, a
T-shirt is

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O, Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions
expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Editorial Board of The Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $35.00 per year. Advertising rates are
available upon request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

forever. Only $10. (But don’t
tell her what a good deal yon got
on it.)

