THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats must bounce back from
losses to Furman and Richmond

By Jay CANTRELL
Sports Editor

Once again, Lucy pulled the foot-
ball away just as Charlie Brown was
about to kick it.

That analogy has become an in-

side joke

between

Furman an. 2 | head coach

Wildcats 1|/ Kevin

; Hundley

PEP ; and assis-

Richmond 24 bet
Wildcats 1} Biche.

But they

don’t think it’s funny, especially after
the Wildcats lost a heartbreaker to
Furman 2-1 in overtime Wednesday
night in Greenville, S.C. They fol-
lowed that with a 2-1 loss to Richmond
Saturday at the lower varsity field.

Davidson took a 1-0 lead against
the Paladins when Kelly Rennick scored
offapass from Amy Kanoff at the 50:26
‘mark. But with less than four minutes
left in regulation, Furman’s Sarah
Tollick took an assist from Jill Braley to
tie the game. Braley then notched the
game-winning tally in the 27th minute
of overtime to give Furman the win and
secure ahome game in the first round of
the Southern Conference tournament.

“After Furman, we were devas-
tated,” Hundley said. “When you put
that much heart and soul into a game
like that, it’s a bitter pill to swallow.
This team has tasted that pill too many
times this year.”

They tasted it again Saturday as
the Spiders’ freshman phenom, Brooke
Sands, redirected two first-half crosses
into the back of the net. She is one of the
top 10 scorers in the country with 16
goals.

The Wildcats came out with inten-
sity in the second half, but could not
score until Rhina Roberts tallied
Davidson’s lone goal at the 87:14 mark.

It was a game in which Richmond had .

more scoring opportunities, and capi-
talized on them.

“She’s a finisher,” Hundley said
of Sands. “Every time she touches the
ball, she’s dangerous.”

“UNCG has two players like that,”
he added.

That is why the Spartans ‘are fa-
vored to win this week’s Southern Con-
ference tournament.

“They’ve been the favorite from
day one, and they’ve shown that,”
Hundley said. “They should win the
conference tournament. Anything else
would be a shock.”

Hundley gave every. team in the
league some-advice about trying to up-
set the nationally-ranked Spartans.

“Tt will take good goalkeeping (to
beat UNCG). There are three (confer-
ence teams) who have quality keepers
who could shut them down,” he said.

“You also have to avoid giving
them scoring chances because they have
two big guns up front. If we play them,
we'll have to play for the full 90 min-
utes and hopefully sneak in a goal.”

That is something neither Furman

@ Rookie striker Mandy
Kinane, shown here in
Saturday’s game against
Richmond, and the Wild-
cats will be gunning for
their fourth’ straight
league championship
this week. The squad
plays a quarterfinal
match tonight vs. Furman
at Greensville, S.C.

* Sean Lutmer

Women’s soccer looks to turn things around ir it

@ A year ago, the Wildcats earned their third straight Southern Conference tourr

=

ment championship. They hope to win a fourth straight this week, but nationally.
ranked UNC Greensboro figures to give Davidson and the rest of the league fits.

nor Davidson could do against UNCG
in the regular season. Both teams held
Greensboro to a 0-0 tie in the first half
before falling 3-0.

“We'd love to get another shot at
UNCG,” Hundley said, “but we have to
earn that.”

With the loss at Furman Wednes-
day, the Wildcats received the fifth seed
in the league tournament, the semis and
finals of which Davidson will host this
weekend at the lower varsity field. But
the Wildcats will have to avenge their
loss to the Paladins if they want to
advance to the semifinals.

Whether they win or lose tonight,
they -will play their final game at
Richardson Field Thursday at 6:00 p.m.
against North Carolina St. That contest
was scheduled before the league tour-
ney format was changed to accommo-
date an NCAA play-in game on Nov. 8.

If Davidson loses to Furman, the
Wolfpack will be the last opponent of
the year. But witha victory in Greenville,
the State game will virtually be a full-

speed practice for the Wildcats before
they face UNC Greensboro. The Spar-
tans should have an easy first-round
match. Wofford is the No. 2 seed in the
draw, but they lost to the Wildcats at
Richardson Field 2-0 on Oct. 10. The
Terriers benefitted from playing Appa-
lachian St. at home, while Davidson
and Georgia Southern had to play the
Mountaineers on the AstroTurf at
Boone. The Wildcats earned a scoreless
tie, and the Eagles lost.

Those results contributed to
Davidson’s 4-10-2 record, but the regu-
lar-season can be thrown out the win-
dow now.

“As much as we would have liked
to have won those games,” Hundley
said, “we’ ll gladly trade those losses for
wins in the conference tournament.

“We haven’t been a consistent
goal-scoring team. But the trip up North,
especially at Brown (a 2-1 overtime
loss), was aturning point. We got hosed.
But instead of sitting down and crying,
we got mad.

“I wish we could get a result to
justify our hard work. Unfortunately,
that is not the way the game works.”

“This is a group that is not used to
losing,” Hundley added. “I believe, for
the underclassmen, this is part of their
growing experience.”

They have had to grow a lot this
season because injuries have plagued
the Wildcats since their first game. In
that contest, Kelly Schmidt injured her
ankle in the opening minutes Aug. 31 at
South Carolina.

Natalie Stumpf injured her knee in
the first five minutes of the Furman
game Wednesday night. She is waiting
to receive results from an MRI taken
Saturday morning to determine her sta-
tus for tonight’s game.

Schmidt re-injured her ankle in
the second half and did not return. But
she did play Saturday.

“Her ankle has never been 100
percent,” Hundley said. “But she sees
the number of games left in her career,
and she wants to play.”

Defense has been key for Wildcats’ late run

Throughout this season, the de-
fensive unit has been a microcosm for
the men’s soccer team.

Young talent that, with experience,
keeps improving.

Losing virtually every starter from
last year’s team to graduation, there has
been an overhaul in the defensive per-
sonnel this season.

Gone from last season are goal-
keeper Matt Hill, captain Isaac Stewart,
team MVP Chad Lagerway, and three-
year starter Fernando Campos.

In are Brad Stroble, Randy
Culbertson, Andy Lanoha, and Patrick
Miller.

“Those guys from last year had so
much experience that’s tough to re-
place,” coach Charlie Slagle said. “But
we haven’t been crushed defensively.”

Led by Stroble, a junior keeper,
this year’s youthful defense has done
just fine, recently posting several solid
performances, including a pair of shut-
outs over ACC opponents.

After starting the season 1-6,
Stroble has won six of his Jast eight
outings, allowing just 11 goals during
that span.

He can thank his defense for those

@ Stroble

numbers. Spirited by a change in the
sweeper position, the Wildcat defense
has been fierce lately.

Lanoha switched to that post after
the UNC Greensboro victory, allowing
Culbertson— whose overtime goal beat
the Spartans —to fully utilize his offen-
sive capabilities.

“It was kind of. funny because I
was just getting used to sweeper when

coach switched me,” said Culbertson,

who played both midfield and forward
— but not defense — in high school.

“The switch has gone smoothly,
and Andy and I are working together
well.”

“Tt really has been the best of both
worlds,” Miller said.

“Andy is really the vocal leader,
the organizer of the group, and Randy is

able to use his offensive skills more
freely.”

But this unit does more than play
defense. Perhaps more impressive than
their recent stinginess in the backfield
is their work on offense.

Because of the ball-contro] offense
Slagle has utilized, the defensemen act
as point men during the offensive game.

“T ask them not just to defend the
ball, but to possess the ball,” Slagle
said. “They have really stepped up.”

This year’s defense has tallied
seven points, already eclipsing last
year’s total of four.

Miller, Lawrence Cann, and quad-
captain Jeff Weekes play on the out-
side, and often create the offense for
Davidson.

“Tt has been a lot of fun to get up in
the play,” said Miller, whose first colle-
giate goal beat Georgia Southern Sun-
day in Statesboro.

Weekes, the lone senior in the
group, also scored against the Eagles.

And ‘Cann, the scoring leader
among the defense, appears to have
gotten healthy at the right time, starting
only his second game since last month’s
Richmond contest on Sunday.

“This year’s defense has been
asked to do so much, and they have
really risen to the occasion,” Slagle
said. ‘

Both defensively and offensively.

beyond the 18-yard mark.

1 halftime advantage.

minutes into the game.

very well against us.”

Wildcats lose to Appalachian, upset Ga.
Southern, look towards conference tourney

Men’s soccer from 20

minutes remaining in the game, rookie midfielder Dane Erickson crossed the ball
to Drew Lindsey, whose shot bounced off Eagle goalkeeper Mike Burrell.
Weekes was there to chest the ball into the net to tie the game.
And 10 minutes. later, Patrick Miller launched the game-winner from

David Buehler opened the scoring for the Wildcats 30 minutes into the
game, heading in a Miller assist to even the score at one.
But Pat Parris countered two minutes later to give Georgia Southern the 2-

On Friday, the Wildcats jumped on top of Appalachian less than two

But in hindsight, Phil Julien’s early score may have hurt Davidson.

“When we scored so early, I think the team may have taken the attitude that
“| this was not going to be a hard game,” Slagle said.
They have playeda lot of teams in the conference close this year, and they played

“But give credit to App. St.

The Mountaineers took a 2-1 halftime lead, and held on for the victory.

: With potential conference wins today at VMI and Friday against Wofford
at Richardson Field, the Wildcats would secure at least a No. 2 seed in the
Southern Conference tournament next week.

But losing both games — and with losses to App. St. and conference
doormat The Citadel, Davidson has proved it can lose to anyone — could force
Davidson to play on the road in the first round of the tournament.

