“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”

*

EsTABLisHED 1914

Pass/Fail. Who chose the option
under the new system?

NEws 3

Changing the world. Hobbie’s
going to do it. Who’s with him?

OPINIONS 8

A cinematic masterpiece.
“English Patient” comes to campus.

A&L9

Near shocker. Women’s hoops
falls by two to No. 10 Vanderbilt.

SPORTS 16

sick

@ Rookie center Brian Allenspach runs the floor for a layup in the Wildcats’ 101-65 >

Anna Judy

exhibition win over the Charlotte Royals Monday night at Belk Arena. The squad
kicks off its regular season Thursday against Duke in a nationally televised contest.

State agency tries to curb
underage drinking at Davidson
Students, cops displeased with efforts

By Jessica Goopson
News Editor

The Alcohol Law Enforcement
agency has been patrolling the Davidson
campus consistently and unsolicited since
early October.

At the SGA meeting Tuesday, Dean
of Students Tom Shandley stated that ALE
officials have not been invited to campus,
but they do have state-wide jurisdiction
and therefore a right to be here.

Ray Thrower, Director of Public
Safety, however, has asked that ALE no-
tify the college when they plan to come in
the future.

Richard Griffin, Supervisor at the
North Carolina Alcohol Law Enforce-
ment agency, said that ALE is acting on
a Crime Control program initiated several
months ago to reduce the percentage of
alcohol-related accidents involving young

adults by 10 percent. The word “acci- ,

dent” refers specifically to motor vehicle
accidents where the driver’s alcohol level
is .08 or above.

The program entails that ALE bol-
ster patrols in 12 North Carolina counties
with the highest accident rates for people
ages 15-20, where alcohol is the major
contributing factor.

Mecklenburg County has one of the
highest incidence rates, with 120 such
alcohol-related accidents in the last year.

Patrolling outlets near college and
high school campuses in particular —
where attempts to purchase, possess, and
consume alcohol by those under 21 is
common — ALE are closely scrutinizing
football games, concerts, and parties, as
well as ABC stores.

In 1995, 5,000 people under age 21
were arrested for Driving While Intoxi-
cated (DWI) in North Carolina. The goal
of ALE is to lower those figures.

" “We'll see how our efforts go,” Grif-
fin said, “State-wide statistics will be out
next year. Right now we’re just testing

the water. This is an ongoing process, and
it will continue through this year-and
probably longer.”

So far, student response to the pres-
ence of ALE on campus has been nega-
tive. One student, who chose to remain
anonymous, related what happened to him
on Friday, Nov. 7, around midnight:

“I was walking from the senior apart-
ments with about six or seven other people.
As we came out of the woods and ap-
proached the road, a white Ford Taurus
screeched to a stop about 20 feet in front~
of us. We all were wondering what was
going on until we saw a man jump out of
the driver’s seat with a flash light yelling
at us.to stop.”

Although he never identified him-
self, the officer wore the ALE emblem on
his jacket. He cited the student for posses-
sion of alcohol — “despite the fact,” the
student said, “that I didn’t have any alco-
hol on me.

“He said he saw me holding a beer
and that I could cooperate and receive a
fine for possession, or he would make this
offense a misdemeanor and it would go on
my permanent record.”

The student accordingly received a
$90 citation. Later that evening, he no-
ticed that the officer had miscalculated his
age as 18 instead of 19. To correct the

- mistake would require that the student

hire a lawyer.

A citation implies a criminal charge;
a person 19-20 years old caught possess-
ing or consuming alcohol will be charged
with an infraction and receive a $25 fine.
Anyone under the age of 19 will be charged
with a misdemeanor offense and be re-
sponsible for court fees in addition to a
fine. Those who are not of legal age
caught attempting to purchase or purchas-
ing alcohol; or using a fake ID, will not
only be charged with a misdemeanor of-
fense, but required to make a mandatory
court appearance which cannot be waived,

see Alcohol on page 2

Panel of four discusses methods of

By SARAH OGDEN
News Editor

Four professors from various de-
partments formed a panel at the first
forum on the Writing Center Wednes-
day in the Union Home Room, as each
person spoke about a specific topic be-
fore the floor was opened to questions
from the audience.

Tim Waples of the English depart-
ment acted as mediator, and the panel
was comprised of Hansford Epes (Ger-
man and Humanities), Annie Ingram
(English), Greta Munger (Psychology),
and Patricia Peroni (Biology).

After a brief promotion of the
Writing Center, Waples expressed his
enthusiasm at the size of the audience.

“We actually had to bring in some

more chairs,” he said. ‘The more, the *

merrier.”

Epes was the first to speak. He
chose to discuss writing in Humanities
classes.

“T think of writing as a process of
shaping and sharing,” he said.

Epes explained that a good Hu-
manities paper should have a clear shape
and idea, and should be mechanically
correct.

However, Epes also said that he
wants students to “explore different

. Strategies of writing” and to assimilate

ideas.

“We will ask you to think for your-
self — often,” he said.

Ingram spoke next on peer evalu-
ations. Peer evaluations, she explained,
are a process by which students read
and edit each other’s papers. Ingram
believes it makes students better read-

ers, writers, and editors.

“It forces time for revision,” she
said, and “gives varied feedback” in-
stead of merely one professor’s point of
view all the time.

“We are not infallible as people,”
Ingram admitted.

She pointed out, though, that evalu-
ations should contain honest, construc-
tive criticism to be useful.

Munger, the next to speak, talked
of her own college experiences at the
University of Chicago.

Munger said that she had found
that she learned more on open-book
tests that required her to integrate
sources to come up with a comprehen-
sive answer — in only two pages of
writing. ;

Munger transferred this to her
teachings at Davidson, and sometimes

good writing at forum.

gives her students open-book tests of
the same type she had in college.

It is possible to fail open-book
tests, she said, by not answering the
question.

Munger’s advice was for students
to write their answers, then edit them
down to the allotted amount of space by
getting rid of superfluous material.

Munger sees this type of examina-
tion as a way to force students to think
about what they are writing. It is also
applicable in life, she said.

The last professor to speak was
Peroni, who talked about writing sci-
ence papers.

In some respects, she said, science
papers are easier to write because the
audience is already defined, and there is
a set format — that which journals use.

However, she said, it is important

EEE __________________ 1

sa don’t believe that ALE is necessary or productive on Davidson’s campus. Nothing good can come from their presence.

“99

ANONYMOUS STUDENT ON THE ALCOHOL ENFORCEMENT AGENCY, WHICH HAS RECENTLY PATROLLED THE CAMPUS

to be concise in a science paper, and this
is where students have problems. Peroni
said that -scientists don’t have much
time to read, and so what they do read
must be specific, concise, and in a fa-
miliar format.

Peroni suggested that students look
at related journals for an “idea of how
people are reporting their information,”
and that they “ask somebody for some
help.”

JA i BSB 5S NR es pres 5,6
OP-ED ......... seh iltas ceecune. 6
ARTS & LIVING ........... 9
AN Ha, © ) 2) OREO Bats 16

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid

Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

