__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Rio

| “Hay Fever” a smashing success

By SARAH ZOGBY
Guest Writer

play billed as a “zany comedy” often times
A makes me negyous. A comedy simply needs

to be funny. However, a“‘zany” comedy not
only requires the correct comedic timing, it also relies
heavily upon the right costumes, the right set, the right
attitude and, obviously, the right cast to push it over
the top. Unlike a plain old comedy, a “zany” comedy
needs to be larger than life in every respect.

Luckily, my fears of such a play were quickly
dispelled as I sat in the audience of Hay Fever, a play
written by Noel Coward, performed for the Theater
Department’s fall mainstage production.

The cast and crew, who lit up the stage Wednes-
day through Sunday, created a comic book world set

’ in 1930s England. It left the audiences, which were
teeming with parents, in stitches from all the “zany”
fun.

The Davidson production, directed by Ann Marie
Costa with assistance from Chase Bringardner, re-
mained extremely loyal to the period. (Someone was
doing their research.)

Most notable were the costumes, designed by

_ Rebecca Cairns and Monica Cunningham. They were

extravagant creations that changed repeatedly through-
out the show, making each character larger than life—
caricatures of themselves.

The accents also added authenticity to the pro-
duction, thick but clear English brogues that remained
consistent from’ beginning to end — something at-

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1997

tempted in Davidson productions in the past but not
nearly as successfully.

’ The set, designed by Joe Gardner and constructed
by Ronnie Higdon — who also designed the lights —
created perfect spaces for the actors to strut their stuff.
And strut they did.

Carrie Van Deest’s Sorel was a perfect mixture
of sassy bitchiness and sweet girl-next-door.

Jess Robblee’s portrayal of a fading stage star,
Judith Bliss, was also a riot. As she and the rest of the
members of her psychotic and self-absorbed clan —
Victor Brand as reserved yet clueless David, Matthew
Moretz as ever-nerdy Simon, and Van Deest, reen-
acted the overly dramatic scenes from their favorite
plays, creating perfect parodies of their own produc-
tion.

The supporting cast of house guests — Trey
Davis as the naive Sandy Tyrell, Jennifer Spears as the
acrid Myra Arundell, Ben Lukey as the distinguished
Richard Greatham and Andra Whitt as the Olive Oyle-
esque Jackie Coryton — allowed the Bliss family to
truly rule its domain, while lending its own spice to the
show.

“Hay Fever” achieved it’s goal to be the “zany”
production it claimed to be. The cast and crew put on
an energetic and spirited show for parents and stu-
dents alike.

Play reviews here at Davidson often seem.to be
overly positive, but this particular production de-
serves all the praise it has received.

It made me laugh out loud — a lot. And, as they
say, we laugh to survive.

Bill Giduz

@ Matthew Moretz (left) supports Jess Robblee while reenacting a classic
scene from Judith Bliss’s past with Carrie Van Deest. This trio, along
with Victor Brand, Trey Davis, Ben Lukey and Andra Whitt performed
“Hay Fever” to sell out crowds from Wednesday to Sunday of last week.

J Oy Harjo to

come to Davidson

By Carrie Morris
Arts & Living Editor

oy Harjo, an award-winning poet,
J will read in the Union 900 Room

tonight at 7:30. Harjo is one of
the more prominent and accomplished
Native American writers of our time,
and itis quite an honor to have her visit
Davidson.

Harjo was born in Tulsa, Okla.,
in 1951 and is a member of the
Muscogee (Creek) Tribe. She gradu-
ated from high school from the Insti-
tute of American Indian Arts in 1968
and continued her education at the
University of New Mexico,

After receiving her M.F.A. in
Creative Writing from the Iowa
Writer’s Workshop at the University
of Iowa, she went on to publish five
books of poetry to date.

Titles include She Had Some
Horses, In Mad Love and War, and
The Woman Who Fell From the Sky,
among many more.

She has won over 11 different
awards for her work, including the
William Carlos Williams Award from
the Poetry Society of America, the
Oklahoma Book Arts Award, and the

Lifetime Achievement Award from
the Native Writers’ Circle of the
Americas:

She is currently in the process of
publishing a children’s book entitled
The Goodluck Cat, a new book of
poetry entitled A Map to the Next
World, and a book of personal essays
tentatively titled A Love Supreme.

Harjo is extremely multi-talented.
She has narrated television programs
about Native Americans and earned
an Emmy for this work. She is a
saxophone player who performs na-
tionally and internationally — solo as
well as with her band named Joy Harjo
and Poetic Justice.

They have a CD entitled “Letter
From the End of the Twentieth Cen-
tury,” and they also performed at the
1996 Cultural Olympiad in Atlanta.

Harjo’s reading is not to be
missed. You may think you have too
much work and not enough time to
attend the event.

To that complaint, I will quote a
very wise woman who taught me En-
glish in high school: “You'll never
remember what it was that kept you
away, but you’ll always remember
what you got there.”

WRITE FOR ARTS & LIVING.
Wuy? BECAUSE WE LIKE YOU.

Call Wes (x6383) or Carrie (x6803)

Jackopierce infuses Johnston Gym

Halloween night concert electrifies campus

By WEsLEY H. GoLpsBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

alloween night was devoid of
much campus activity, except
for the persistent rainfall. The

one exception would be the frighten-
ingly loud noises that erupted from the
cavern known as Johnston Gym.

Jackopierce, a four-member band
from Dallas, stopped by Davidson Fri-
day night on its way across the nation,
performing a farewell tour:

The band’s final tour has included

performances at prestigious venues all .

over the U.S. Several of their appear-
ances will be accompanied by other
artists; including the Smithereens,
Edwin McCain, and the one-and-only
Sister Hazel.

The concert, sponsored by Rusk
House, was electric. There were about
600 people at the show.

“The jam session was excellent, -

the rock-n-roll was perfect!” one uni-
dentified man said.

Indeed it was. Jackopierce’s
sound, like so many other “college
bands,” is difficult to describe, but was
unique and professional. They were
loud yet controlled, their songs slower
than those of most rock groups, but
entrancing.

At times, comparisons could be

made to groups such as Bush or *

Dishwalla, but Jackopierce was much
less annoying and just as talented as
either one. They clearly had a lot of
performance experience; it was easy to
tell that they had seen bigger stages
before.

The audience seemed quite pleased
with the group, with some of the spec-
tators being familiar enough with the
group’s songs to sing along. Other-
wise, most found it difficult to tell what
words the group was singing.

Some audience members were con-
fused by the group’s physical appear-
ance. “The lead singer looks like a

girl,” sophomore Anne Stancil said. The
lead singer did look like a girl.

The concert began shortly after
9:00 p.m. and lasted nearly two and a
half hours, with the group performing
two well-received encores. The band
paused briefly late in the gig to emcee its
own Halloween costume contest, which
featured about,a dozen Davidson stu-

@ “I didn’t know that Micheal Bolton could play gui-

dents.

Friday’s Jackopierce concert was
probably the biggest concert event to
hit Davidson in recent memory. On a
somewhat stormy night, .the dark con-
fines of hallowed Johnston Gym proved
to be'a phenomenal venue — certainly
one that gives the 900 Room arun for its
money.

Will Bradshaw

tar!” Jackopierce’s lead singer wails out late Friday

night.
