The Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief Arts & Living Editor Cartoonist
RANDY HARTWELL HEATHER LARSON CHRIS MOORE
TERESA WHITE

Assoc. Arts & Living Editor Business and Circulation Mgrs.

Associate Editor JEFFERY CROMARTIE CHLOE BROOKE
MATTHEW EIRICH McNEIL CARSWELL
Sports Editors
. News Editor WILL BRADSHAW Advertising Managers
ANN CULP MICHAEL KRUSE JOHN EARLY
PETER MARTIN
Associate News Editor Photo Editor
NARESH NAGELLA ANNA JUDY Web Page Managers
CLAY LENHART
Opinions Editors Copy Editor BRAD CHASE
KRISTEN BARTCH BETH BACON ERIC PENDERGRASS
DAVID SANTSCHI

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 1997 7

AS the

snanenanae are tn

“Good FoR Kething, ehr
“Nestigtal, hvh?

I'll show you vestigial //

a

nen

others slept.

LETTERS

Thanks for the ride, SGA

The Dabidsonian is now available on the World Wide Web at:
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Bearable crosses

Those crosses which will soon appear outside of Chambers are like unsolicited junk
mail. They tell you about something you don’t really want to hear about in a way you don’t
care to hear it.

The crosses are also similar to an AIDS kiosk which appeared two years ago near the
spot of the present crosses. Both advance a act about how to see the world or deal with
some aspect of the human condition.

In other words, the groups which put them up. are solicitous and challenging, but are
perfectly justified in being such.

All that separates what the Christian groups are doing from what the groups associated
with the AIDS kiosk did is that a majority of people on campus dislike either those
Christian groups or having a public discussion of what is considered a private issue—
religion.

The groups associated with the crosses have as much right to express their opinion as
do secular groups on campus. Campus dialogue cannot exist if some factions in the
community are prevented from speaking. :

That in the past the crosses have been accompanied by aggressive and smug notes and
defenses from students involved in erecting them has not helped the dialogue. Taking it
upon one’s shoulders “to remind people what their vacation is for,” as Eric Sapp did in the
April 24, 1995 issue of The Davidsonian, does not win any friends and sounds arrogant.

But arrogance is not a reason to censure nor to complain incessantly about people
forcing religion down our throats. Besides, labeling something as forced has more to do
with the attitude of the receiver of the message than the sender. When one agrees with a
vehemently expressed opinion the feeling that the message is being forced upon an
audience is absent.

We find the attitudes that accompany the crosses both presumptuous and arrogant.
Butis it any less presumptuous to erect an AIDS kiosk to raise campus awareness of AIDS?

Both displays arise froma notion that the campus is improperly informed or observant
of some event or thing. We can question the necessity of one or the other, but they clearly
spring from the same spirit.

This spirit is called having an opinion and expressing it publicly. One may find the
crosses to be distasteful or useless, but censoring the expression of certain opinions is
hypocritical, benefits no one, and damns us all.

The Davidsonian is published weekly on Monday during the academic year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Davidsonian, P.O, Box 219, Davidson, North Carolina 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149.
Our offices are located on the third floor of the Grey Student Union building. Opinions expressed
lin letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian, Subscriptions cost $35 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request. Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

To the Editors:

We would like to thank the
Burk administration and the
current SGA senators for their
recent willingness to fund and
organize the SGA shuttle to
Cornelius and Huntersville.
Their generosity notonly
allows us to run a program
for five weeks (a service we
believe will broaden a
student’s social options and
may curtail drunk driving),
but it also indicates their de-
sire for an SGA which meets
student demand in various
ways, including transporta-
tion for entertainment and

other services.

We would also like to
thank those students who, for
whatever reason, used the
shuttle service during this past
weekend.

As the committee re-
sponsible for evaluating this
Rides Program, we are en-
couraged that a good number

.of students used the shuttle

this weekend.

However, because we
know that the continuation of
such a service into next se-
mester depends largely on
student demand and use, we
hope other students will make
the effort to use it. Use it to

go bowling or to the movies
or to Harris Teeter. Use it if
you don’thaveacarandcan’t
find transportation. And
please use it to avoid drink-
ing and driving.

The shuttle leaves from
Rich Dorm onthe hour Thurs-
day, Friday and Saturday
nights from 7 pm - 2am and
costs $2 per round trip. (It
will not run March 28th or
29th). Again, thank youSGA

-and Davidson students.

Sincerely,

Warren Buford ’97
Co-chair of Transportation
Task Force

The skinny on circumcision

To the Editors:

Circumcision, the surgi-
cal removal of the foreskin of
the penis, developed into a
routine practice inthe U.S. in
the twentieth century. The

' U.S. is the only Western na-

tion to practice routine, non-
religious infant circumcision,
where roughly 55 per cent of
baby boys are still forced to
undergo this painful surgery,
done usually without anes-
thesia and always without the
infant’s consent. Worldwide,
85 percent of males are NOT
circumcised.

In 1971 and 1975, the
American Academy of Pedi-
atrics concluded that there are
“no valid medical indications
for circumcision” of the new-
born. In 1978, the American
College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists endorsed this
position, as has the American
Academy of Family Physi-
cians, the College of Pediat-
ric Urologists, and the Cana-
dian Pediatric Society. Tho-
mas J. Ritter, M. D., in his

book Say No ‘to Circumci-
sion! (Hourglass Book Pub-
lishing, 1992), details 40
compelling reasons why cir-
cumcision is not in a child’s
best interest.

Routine circumcision
adds $240 million/year need-

lessly to burgeoning medical

costs, and it is not risk-free.
The complications are numer-
ous, and can be tragic! Cir-
cumcision also causes a loss
of some sexual sensations and
function. For the uncircum-
cised male and’ his female
partner, the foreskin enhances
sexual pleasure.

Some men who were cir-
cumcised as infants and wish
they had been left intact have
undergone surgical and non-
surgical foreskin restoration
techniques. The book The
Joy of Uncircumcising: Re-
store Your Birthright and
Maximize Sexual Pleasure by
Jim Bigelow, Ph. D. (Hour-
glass Book Publishing, 1992)
describes these techniques,
and can be ordered at most
bookstores. The best solu-

tion ultimately, however, is
to NOT circumcise infants in
the first place!

Whereas millions of
males in this country are sub-
ject to genital mutilation by
routine infant circumcision,
millions of females in Af-
rica, parts of Asia, and many
Islamic countries are subject
to genital mutilation by fe-
male circumcision, excision,
and infibulation. Procedures
run the gamut from remov-
ing only the clitoris or clito-
ral hood to removal of a ma-
jor portion of the vulva and
closing. of the vagina, with
only a small opening left to
permit passage of urine and
menstrual blood.

Further free information
on circumcision is available
from the Childbirth Educa-
tion Foundation, P. O. Box 5,
Richboro, PA 18954.

Sincerely,
Petrina Fadel

5500 Sears Road
Groton, NY 13073

Did you know that the sacred Shroud
of Turin is actually a Babidsontan
t-shirt? Well, itis. Get your own

guaranteed authentic official
replica relic. Only $10.

