By Carrig ARTHUR
Staff Writer

On Apr. 15, Peter Makuck presented the
Charles Lloyd Award for Nonfiction Prose. Se-
nior Carlo Reynolds won first place for “Pinkfish.”
Senior Kristen Richardson received the second-
place award for “Written in November,” and the
third-place winner was senior Emily Rickers for
“Two Worlds Colliding: Cultural Identity in
Shakespeare’s ‘Othello’ and ‘Antony and
Cleopatra.”

An English major, Reynolds plans to attend
medical school after graduation. Beginning to
write in high school for class and the newspaper,
Reynolds won a National Council of Teachers in
English award for a collection of essays.

Reynolds has continued to write at Davidson
and has occasionally written for The Davidsonian’s
sports section. He said that English professor
Cynthia Lewis and Dr. Pinckney Benedict have
been his two big motivators. Reynolds took the
1996 McGee professor Benedict’s creative writ-
ing class and Lewis’s nonfiction prose class.

Lewis’s class directly influenced Reynolds’
essay “Pinkfish” because of its regular study of
essays from the New Yorker. From reading the

New Yorker, Reynolds learned the style of what
he called “the personal essay and research,” which
he used in “Pinkfish.”

Although he occasionally writes short sto-
ries, Reynolds regularly writes in his journal and
reads for pleasure. He plans to continue writing
for the rest of his life. Planning to be a doctor,
Reynolds sees “giving a creative voice to cold

science” as one of his missions. To Reynolds, the
award is a confirmation of his mission: “The
award means a lot to me because I want to be a
doctor and to blend creativity and science. In this
essay, I discovered a way to combine both.”

Reynolds originally wrote “Pinkfish” for
Lewis’s nonfiction prose class. The subject of his
essay is stuttering, a problem of which a minor
version afflicted him as a child. Once Reynolds’s
problem came back’ when he studied Spanish for
two years at Davidson, he learned that his type of
the affliction dealt with language acquisition and
comfort. , Despite his problem of stuttering in
Spanish, Reynolds went to South America.

In his essay, Reynolds relates his personal
experiences stuttering as a child and in South
America. Reynolds found as he researched that
little is known about his type of stuttering, so that
he felt like an “explorer” as well as a researcher.
His type subsides once one’s comfort level and
proficiency in the given language increases.

Of his essay, Makuck said, “‘Pinkfish’ is an
outstanding personal essay about the affliction of
stuttering. In fact, research and documentation
make the essay more than personal so that it
engages a reader on several levels.

“While we follow a narrative rich with inci-
dent, anecdote, and colorful detail, we also learn
that Charles Lamb struggled with the problem all
his life, that recent research underscores a ‘com-
plex relationship between stuttering and the struc-
ture of language,’ and that a leading authority on
the subject believes the critical factor in ‘stutterer’s
beating his affliction is a change in self percep-
tion.’

“It is the essay’s informational dimension
combined with the writer’s vivid account of his
ordeal in Paraguay that make for compelling read-
ing. But it must also be said that both the pain and
the brave comedy of the writer’s experiences would
not be nearly so powerful were they not filtered
through a lens of language that is polished and
crafted.”

Makuck is a professor of English at East
Carolina University. He received his B.A. from
St. Francis College, his M.A. from Niagara Uni-
versity, and his Ph.D. from Kent State University.
The author of eight books, Makuck was written
collections of short fiction, volumes of poetry, and
a poetry text/anthology. In addition to writing,
Makuck is the editor of “Tar River Poetry,” a
nationally recognized journal, and he has written
numerous essays, reviews, and translations.

Makuck’s ‘awards include the title Distin-
guished Professor of Arts and Sciences for what
his resume calls “career achievement as teacher
and writer” and the title Best ECU Professor by the
annual survey of the Greenville Times. He is a
member of Phi Beta Delta, Phi Kappa Phi, associ-
ated writing programs, and North Carolina Writer’s
Network.

The Charles Lloyd Award for nonfiction prose
began in 1987 in memory of Davidson English
Professor Charles Lloyd. Previous winners in-
clude Sheri Reynolds, Todd Winston Cabell, Raoul
William Robert, Ned Sarchet Erickson, and Cintra
Pollack.

Charles Lloyd was born in Birmingham, Ala.,
on Feb. 19, 1915. Heearned his A.B. and Phi Beta
Kappa key from the University of North Carolina

TUESDAY, APRIL 28, 1998

in 1935 and his M.A. in 1960. Before teaching at
Davidson, Lloyd taught at UNC, Barber-Scotia,
the University of Mississippi, Biltmore College,
the Westminister Schools in Atlanta, and Mebane
public schools. Lloyd also lectured at the
Volkshochschule in Wiesbaden. He served in the
Army from 1942 until 1946, during which time he
received the bronze star.

After World War II, he worked for Govern-
mental Affairs and the State Department as a
policy advisor to the Deputy High Commissioner
for Germany. His eulogy says that “Charlie helped
many Germans to accommodate to their postwar
freedom.” Lloyd taught at Davidson from 1956
until 1980. He was also a husband, father of four,
Bible-study teacher, and hiker.

Known for his encyclopedic knowledge and
ability to speak seven or more languages, Lloyd
began coaching Davidson’s College Bow] team in
1969. The 1969 and 1979 teams won the national
championship, and the 1979 team lost the interna-
tional championship by one question. The July 18,
1986 edition of the Charlotte Observer quoted
Eugene Davis as saying, “He was like a walking
encyclopedia.”

The Charlotte Observer also quoted Davidson
Professor of English J. Gill Holland as saying, “He
was a great yea-sayer. He made you feel like life
was worth living to its fullest just by standing
beside him and talking to him.” Also in the
Observer, Dr. Frontis Johnston said, “He inspired
his students through his own enthusiasm. He was
a kind of missionary who communicated his en-
thusiasm for learning and his knowledge to his
student.”

PRECIOUS TIMES CONSIGNMENT CENTER

Let me write you a check

We Resell So You Don’t Have To!!
Furniture, sports & exercise equipment, lamps, pictures, etc.

664-2247 © 165 N. Main St. e Downtown Moorseville ¢ Closed Sun.- Mon.

folds trustee board president ( *83-"84),.

SUMMER INTERNSHIPS

First Union has excellent summer opportunities available for individuals looking to gain
: valuable experience before starting their careers. In addition to earning great money, you will
be provided with exceptional training. Project dates are May 26-- August 21. Motivated, dedi-

cated candidates should fax their resumes to Brandi at: 704-383-0996. First Union is an equal
opportunity employer M/F/D/V.

First Union

702 high school students visited Davidson in April.
5 Senior Admission Fellows greeted them all.

In recognition of all their hard work serving the many students nad parents who have visited Davidson this past year, the
_ Office of Admission and Financial Aid would like to thank each of our Senior Admission Fellows: Jean Boehmler, Scott
ee? Kevin Saunt Amy Kanoff, Meredith Moseley, Tim Satuising, and Sarah Teachworth.
at _ We will miss you!

