_THE DAVIDSONIAN

Film Festival hits 900 Room

By Mike GILLEsPIE

News Layout Editor

Davidson’s African American Film Festival
continues with six movies playing between now
and Friday in the 900 Room of the Union.

Tuesday night “Secrets and Lies” will be
playing at eight o’clock.

Wednesday night there are going to be two
films shown. “The Color Purple” will be shown at
six o’clock and
immediately fol-
lowing the movie
Dr. Zoran
Kuzmanovich
will discuss. it.
The film is based
upon the book by -
the Pulitzer Prize
winning book by
Alice Walker and
directed by Steven
Spielberg. It re-
lates the story of
Celie (Whoopi
Goldberg) and her
husband Albert
(Danny Glover), a
sharecropper.
Spanning the years from 1909 to 1949, this film
tells the story of one woman’s journey towards a
life of her own. This movie was nominated for 11
Oscars but received none.

Later Wednesday night at nine -thirty,
“Daughters of the Dust” will be playing, and will
be followed by a presentation by Professor Brenda
Flanagan. The movie looks at the life of the
inhabitants of Gullah Island in’ 1902. Gullah
Island is located off of the coast of Georgia and
South Carolina ‘and . In a community of poverty,
one family tries to decide whether to depart the
island for life on the mainland, leaving behind the
dialects preserved from African Ancestors and the

@ “Shaft” will be shown Thursday night.

tribal practices pasted down since they were brought
over.
On Thursday night at eight o’clock, “Shaft”
will be shown. Produced in 1971, “Shaft” is a
detective story of high style. It tells the story of
Shaft, a detective who is hired to find the daughter
of the gangster Bumpy. Events escalate with the
possibility of racial warfare, and Shaft is helped
out by a police lieutenant and a black militant who
both seek to avoid the potential race war. Shaft is
every man’s hero.
On Fri-
day night, the
movie “Friday”
will be playing at
eight o’clock.
This is the con-
temporary story
of Craig and his
friend Smokey
who have gotten
in over their heads
in a series of situ-
ations. Craig has
lost his job, and
Smokey has made
the mistake of
using all the dope
that he was sup-

posed'to be selling. The movie escalates as both

Craig and Smokey learn things about their person-
ality, and seek to find a way out of the situation.
Craig learns a valuable lesson about life, and
Smokey entertains the audience.

Later Friday, at ten o’clock, “Love Jones”
will being playing. Itis an old fashioned love story
based around an affluent, middle-class couple
who meet and become involved. After.a date, the
two are exhilarated but deny their feelings. Some
smart friends save the relationship by keeping
them together and allowing the romance to blos-
som. : This film is a must see as an educational
video for all my friends.

@ Students and community members flocked to the 900 Room
Saturday night to‘swill beer at the International Beer Tasting:

Sallie McMurray

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998

‘Body Beautiful Baby,
Work That Body.

By MitcH SHORES
Student Health Advisor

ope everybody has a nice restful week
H end because we are back in action again.
We still have not heard anything from
you all out there, and we really hope to address
your needs. We hear a lot of things about the
column, but what we really want are questions
from you all. So please, think of what you would
like to ask and ask it. Your questions will be
totally anonymous, unless you want to disclose it
to everybody.
This week
we have decided
to address some-
thing totally
new: working
out!! Youknow,

Mircu’s RECOMMENDED EXERCISE SCHEDULE

Monpays

chest , triceps, and abs

have not idea where to start. (See “Mitch’s Rec-
ommended Exercise Schedule.”’)

You should also do at least 15 minutes of
cardiovascular workout four times a week. This
will help you to burn some fat if you have a little
extra to spare. Cardiovascular workouts can be
running, using the Stairmaster, cycling, swim-
ming, or anything that gets the old heart a-tickn’.

Now, if you are looking to add muscle mass,
you should consider heavy weights with low
repetitions. That is about 8-10 reps, times three.
And if you are looking to tone those mounds of
muscles you have now, then you should do low
weights and high
repetitions. That
is about 10-13
reps, times three.

Inaddi-
tion, make sure

ever since I heard Turspays that you stretch
that song by Salt legs and abs before you exer-
n’ Pepa, “Body WEDNESDAY cise to ensure a

Beautiful,” I
have been des-
tined to shape up
this little stick
figure of mine.

shoulders, biceps, and abs

THURSDAYS
legs and abs

safe workout.
We don’t want
you breakn’ no
bones or pulling
muscles. After

You should lis- FRIDAYS all, there is no
ten to it some- back, chest, and abs more nighttime
time and find the : nurse at the
same inspiration. health center, anymore, so be careful — safety

Spring time will be here soon, and this
slightly abnormal winter that we are having is the
perfect time for you all to start your new workout
program. You can do it for an array of reasons,
but the most important reason would be to stay
healthy. I told my sister that I wanted to get buff,
and she criticized me because I should do it for
my health. However, if you are doing, no matter
what the reason, that is the important part.

Working out can make you feel so much
better. Although you may think that you will
only get more tired from working out, soon after
starting your new program, you will find that you
have much more energy.

As well, exercise helps to fight depression
and can keep you slim and trim. Now, let’s not go
psycho, though, and work out 24/7, because that
could lead to problems too.

I would like to share a workout program for
some of you who are'thinking about starting, but

first!!!

You should always remember to start off
slow and make sure not to overdo it. You will be
sorry the next day when you can’t even roll over
in bed, much less get out of it. We should all
consider starting our new workout regimes so
that we will be one big healthy campus. Let’s
also remember to watch our diets while we exer-
cise, too. Continue to eat foods low in fat in order
to be as fit as possible.

If you should have any questions regarding
how to start working out, or any other concerns,
moans, groans, or complaints, send them to:

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson, NC 28036

Have fun now!!!

DavipSON COLLEGE MErit-Basep SCHOLARSHIP

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE

Students who wish to apply for Davidson College merit-based scholarships should pick up application materials at the
Financial Aid Office, 413 N. Main Street. The Financial Aid Office is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
to 4:30 p.m. The application deadline is April 15, 1998.

Davipson CoLLeGE NEED-Basep FINANCIAL AID

APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE

Students who did not receive need-based financial aid in 1997-98 but plan to apply for 1998-99 should pick up application
materials at the Financial Aid Office by February 20, 1998. The deadline is April 15, 1998 for submitting completed
applications. The Financial Aid Office is open Monday through Friday from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. to 4:30 p.m.

