h, college. College is truly a place for
Ast lasting friendships, asserting in
dependence, and cementing one’s char-

acter.
First and foremost, however, college is a
place for learning. Of course, the knowledge we

acquire from those overpriced textbooks is the

primary reason for our attendance at this fine
institution. The approximate $30,000 dollars we
and our loving families annually invest in our
futures is money well-spent — but allow me to let
you in on a little secret.

Today, dear readers, I will tell you how
increased consumer awareness, appraisal ability,
honed communication skills, and even a height-
ened cultural perception can be yours for about
$250 and some tin foil.

That’s right. For the price of a television set

you too can spend the noon hour with Bob Barker
and the showcase showdown. Let’s face it, our
courses are valuable, but what beats “The Price Is
Right” for educational value? First of all, watch-
ing “The Price Is Right” makes shopping much

‘more efficient. Who needs to look at price tags

when you already know the cost of every dining
room set and Winnebago on the market? As a
savvy consumer, you will never lie awake at night
wondering, is the last number in the price of that
recliner I want five or eight? (Note: my roommate
tells me the answer is almost always five.)

And what if that right answer just does not
come to mind? This dilemma illustrates one of the
many ways in which art imitates life. A flounder-
ing contestant must, from a sea of shouting fans
awaiting their chance to “come on DOWN,” dis-
cern the few voices leading them down the win-
ning path. Is this not a signal to the faithful viewer
to patiently wait for his own life’s path to be
revealed?

Another symbol that cannot be ignored: the
big wheel. It truly is a wheel of life, and each time
Bob urges a weak or geriatric contestant to “give
it another spin,” he is reminding each and every
one of us that, although sometimes the price just

isn’t right, tomorrow is another day. The man is
truly an inspiration.

The beauty of Bob Barker is that he is a
source of inspiration for old and young, rich and
poor, male and female alike. (Potential contes-
tants take heed, however: being blond, young,
female, and the wearer of a tight orange shirt
declaring “I GREW UP WITH THE PRICE IS
RIGHT” will work in your favor.) Those who seek
cultural diversity needn’t look further than contes-
tant row. Whether or not one appears onstage
hinges solely on the contestant’s pricing ability,
not social status. If only real-life situations could
be approached so objectively. © ;

Could it possibly get any better? Friends, I
am here to tell you that everyone is a winner on
“The Price Is Right.” As the announcer will tell
you, “contestants not appearing onstage will re-

ceive” a magical array of goodies, ranging. from’

Bounty — the quicker thicker picker-upper — to
a year’s supply of Centrum Silver. Even if you are
an unlucky PLINKO player (which is undoubt-
edly the heart of ‘The Price Is Right”), they will
not let you go home empty-handed. Generosity,
kindness, and valuable life skills, all from one
game show — and yet the merits of “The Price Is

Right” remain a heated controversy.

During a recent episode’s commercial break,
my fellow viewers and I discussed the show as we
tried to avoid the lure of advertising for Depends
and Preparation-H. One fan, Jessie Brown, stated,
“Those things, the campers, they rule.” Her enthu-
siasm was met with cynicism by one who doubted
the contestants’ abilities: “They always choose the
wrong showcase,” our resident pessimist be-
moaned. “They always pick some gay trip over the
camper.”

Saddest of all are those watchers who, even —
with all the evidence before them, remain non-
believers. “I’ve learned nothing,” dubious fresh-
man Rachel Wippold haughtily proclaimed, I
guess you just can’t please all of the people all of
the time. In a world where people remain doubtful
of a perfect.game show, it is no wonder that
injustice still exists. That’s why we must all do our
own part to keep that wheel spinning.

So in order to do my part, I must quote my
personal hero, that beloved teacher, trusted phi-
losopher, and downright good guy: “This is Bob
Barker reminding you to help control the pet
population. Have your pet spayed or neutered.”
Thanks.

Successful dorm living requires diversity, not segregation

sonian, the “turning-back-the-

clock” article addressed Davidson’ s
decision to desegregate and allow blacks
to enroll. Now, almost 30 years after
Davidson admitted its first black stu-
dents, it has decided to initiate a segre-
gated living policy based on race and

if is ironic that in last week’s David

creed. In one of the most short-sighted
and counter-productive administrative
decisions in my tenure at this college,
Davidson has decided to re-segregate
our residence halls. Next year, albeit at

the request of some students, Davidson -

will offer halls that will be available

only to people of certain races and-

creeds.

RLO has, of course, covered itself
on this issue to a certain extent by mak-
ing the wise political decision not to call

them “black-only” or “Christian-only”
halls. Instead, the halls have been given
the rather innocuous names “African
American Studies” and*“*Christian Stud-
ies.” But let’s be realistic: Neither of
these “studies” even exists at Davidson
as an official academic focus. These
fancy names are the same as “separate
but equal” ‘and “literacy requirements
on voting.” They are simply euphe-
misms used to justify segregation and
discrimination.

These halls aren’t even “separate
but equal.” They have been placed in
the basements of Sentelle and Cannon,
two of the most spacious and most
centrally located dorms on campus (one
of the halls even has a kitchen). And
any students who want to segregate
themselves don’t have to go through
lottery.

I’m sure that a number of people
will write about the counter-productive
and dangerous policy of segregating by
race. People (of all races) complain
regularly about the lack of racial unifi-
cation and solidarity here at Davidson.

Racially segregated halls will only fur-
ther divide the campus and may even
raise racial tensions and animosity to
the public level. But my guess is that
this issue will be expounded upon in
great detail over the next few weeks, so
I will move on to the other hall, which
I believe will receive considerably less
attention.

For people who may not have not
read my articles in the past (this is the
first I have written this year), I have
never shied away from taking a stand
for my faith. I have written many ar-
ticles defending Christianity in the past.
I have been the president of one of
Davidson’s most visible Christian or-
ganizations for two years and am going
to seminary next year. So please don’t
write me off as an antireligious zealot.

The Christian hall is a slightly
different issue from the black hall.
Unlike the discussion on race-relations
at Davidson, one does not hear talk

about Christians not being accepted or ”

people being categorized and stereo-
typed by their faith at Davidson, at least

not yet. Of the two halls, however, I
think lam more disappointed in the idea
of the Christian one than of the black
one because I feel very close ties to the
Christian body on this campus. So I
would like to address a few remarks to
Christians at Davidson:

If you are thinking about joining a
Christian hall, take a look at the end of
Matthew’s gospel. The very last thing
Jesus says to his followers is “go there-
fore and make disciples of all
nations,...teaching them to obey every-
thing I have commanded you.” As
Christians, we are not called to separate
ourselves from the world but to live in
it. Granted, it is a wonderful thing to
have Christian friends and to interact
and associate with Christians on a regu-
lar basis. Having a support group of
Christian friends is a helpful and impor-
tant way of surviving the trials of col-
lege. But you cannot stop there. If you
do not interact with and befriend non-
Christians, and those struggling with
their faith, you have passed up the best
way of fulfilling Christ’s Great Com-

mission (not to mention one of the best
ways for you to grow in your own faith).
Christians are all called upon to spread
the joy and love that come from our
relationship with God. And we are all
responsible for how others view. Chris-
tians.

I can tell you what a Christian hall
at Davidson will do. It will reinforce
the stereotype that Christians see them-
selves as better than others. It will lead
to resentment, and it will separate you
from those who don’t think exactly like
you (Christian and non-Christian alike).
We cannot create our own comfortable
corners into which we crawl so that we
don’t have to deal with reality. The
reality is that as a Christian, you will be
tested, and you will be held accountable
for how you lived your life. The mes-
sage that Jesus brought us is much too
important to keep bottled up on our own
hall. If you want support, cluster or
room with other Christians. But don’t
cut yourself off from Davidson. In the
long run, that will do nothing but hurt
you and this college.

‘Top 10 reasons Davidson College is one of the most highly
accredited colleges inthe country =

impotent committee.

of four semesters of teaching.

10. If you get 10 friends together to sign a petition, you, too, can head up your own

9. Jirn Crow Laws go into effect each night at Vail Commons.
8. Tenure requirements now include a minimum of 30 hours per semester of ignoring
students’ needs, as well as a maximum class average of 72.3 percent over the course

TBEING AT Sctinob is
Gcedr! T CANDO WHATEVER
I WaAtuT, , , HIVIT GTA

° REE Tame BM JEFF KESSLER

YEAH THAD My NietLes
PIERCED AND IT Cownes

D
ThE RINGS WITH A CHAIN!

Yeas Oo dusr cut
OPF Both MY Pinky's!

/

guisher” in case of an “emergency.”

Cosby Show.”

7. Davidson College is an “equal opportunity employer” — it’s just that our president
must be a member of the Presbyterian Church... hmmm, | smell a paradox.
6. Each classroom in Chambers is equipped with “an independent thought extin-

5. The admissions office has substituted a “well-rounded person” requirement for a
“well-rounded” SAT score requirement... like 1600.

4. Little Library is jammed with useful periodicals such as “The Presbyterian Quarterly”
and “The Catholic Almanac.” Why not, there is a large contingent of 19th Century
Comparative Religion Majors who need these for their theses. .

3. “Cultural-diversity” means ordering Hawaiian pizza and watching reruns of “The

2. They've added a “family income” category.to the freshman face book so the frats
and eating houses can cut to the chase during rush.
1. A professor's office hour is, in its most literal sense, one hour per week,

—PuiL JULIAN

What st MEANS!

“TA cTO OF A SaPANeSE {
SYMBce ON MY BATT, \ ; gar

nT Nod
AND L DanT ee r~

Ves

oe
LY’

4

T NEVER REALLY UseD THEM AND IT KveT WOKE
Weir... PLUS TT Was FREE. AND My PARENTS
Wie PRoeAary BE Pissen!

s held by the Trustees of Davidson College. _
