6 _. THE DAVIDSONIAN.

NEws

TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

Council finds Halbauer not guilty

By Micuact J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

Less than 24 hours before stepping on the
court against the Massachusetts Minutemen, the
men’s basketball team won a most important vic-
tory.

In an open Honor Code trial Wednesday
night in the Union Conference Room at 7:00 p.m.,
Davor Halbauer, a sophomore guard who has been
in the starting lineup much of the season, was
found not guilty on charges that he cheated on a
Chemistry 105 final exam Dec. 18.

The verdict was announced shortly before
1:00 a.m.

Scott Reeder, a junior who was one of four
students — including Halbauer —taking the Chem-
istry exam in the room in Martin, reported suspi-
cious activity to the Dean of Students Office
around 4:30 that afternoon.

Specifically, Reeder said Wednesday night,
“I saw what appeared to be Davor peering over a
student’s shoulder.” ;

That student, freshman Sarah Witmer, was
sitting a row in front of Halbauer and slightly to his
right, and stated during the trial that she was not
aware of any potential infraction while she took
the test.

Reeder testified that Halbauer looked at
Wittmer’s paper “about six times,” and that four of
those times he was “leaning out of his desk.”

Reeder, who was sitting a row in front of Halbauer
and to his left, also told the Honor Council that
Halbauer had moved one desk closer to Witmer ip
the early stages of the exam.

Halbauer, who took the stand after Reeder
and Chemistry professor Durwin Striplin, denied
all of Reeder’s charges.

“IT never changed my seat,” he said.
leaned during the exam period.”

When asked by the Council what the Honor
Code meant to him, Halbauer replied, “I signed the
little sheet of paper (at the beginning of freshman
year), and for me, my signature means respect.”

In addition, the members of the men’s bas-
ketball program sign a separate team honor pledge
every Friday. According to coach Bob McKillop,
who took the stand later in the trial, Halbauer has
faithfully complied with that practice since he
arrived at Davidson in August 1996.

When asked what his initial reaction was
upon hearing the charges against Halbauer,
McKillop responded, “Disbelief. Shock. That it
could never happen.”

Junior Karim Lawrence, the fourth student in
the test-taking room, told the Council that he saw
no suspicious behavior from Halbauer, adding that
his own positioning in the room — back right —
was the best to have witnessed a violation.

“My vantage point in the class was the best,”
Lawrence said, “because I was sitting in the back
and the classroom slopes down.”

“T never

+,

e © © eDINE IN OR CARRY OUT® « ¢ «

ean @ enmane

No coupon neccessary!

No limit per person while supplies last.
Not valid with any other coupon or gift certificate,

HICKORY€ HAM

HONEY GLAZED

Lake NorMaAN - CorNELIUS

SOUTHLAKE SHOPPING CENTER

I-77 @ Exit 28
892-9592

©1997 Hickory Hams*. “Coke” is « registered

Now, for a limited time, receive a FREE
Coke and freshly baked chocolate chip
cookie * when you purchase any whole

. Hickory Hams sandwich.

Orrer Goon AFTER 4:00 p.m.
THRU FEs. 28™, 1998

trademark of the Coca-Cola Comp

“Karim was our ace in the hole,” said De-
fense Advisor Damon Colbert.

Still, Halbauer’s exam results were, in the
words of Student Solicitor Virginia Fisher, “strik-
ingly similar” to Witmer’s.

On a 35-question multiple choice section —
the only portion of the exam on which Halbauer
was accused of cheating — Witmer got eight
wrong, Halbauer 10. But eight of Halbauer’s
wrong answers matched up exactly with Witmer’s
eight.

“There is definitely a strong correlation be-
tween what was missed by Sarah and what was
missed by Davor,” Striplin told the Council. “I
would’ ve thoughtit to be improbable” for Halbauer
and Witmer to have legally completed such simi-
lar tests.

For Student Solicitor Tripp Franklin, this,
along with Reeder’s testimony, presented “clear
and convincing evidence that Davor Halbauer
cheated.”

But as Colbert reminded the Council before
bringing Halbauer to the stand, “Davor is innocent
until proven guilty. Scott Reeder’s suspicion does
not equal Davor Halbauer’s guilt.”

Following that principle, Colbert and fellow
Defense Advisor Wesley Hart pieced together
their case — one that eventually proved Halbauer’s
innocence.

As Colbert showed, Reeder’ S written report
from Dec. 18.conflicted with his spoken testimony
on Tuesday night. In his
written statement tothe Dean
of Students Office, he re-
ported that Halbauer had
looked over both Witmer’s
shoulder and his shoulder.
On Tuesday night, he said
that Halbauer only looked at
Witmer’s paper.

When pressed
about the inconsistency,
Reeder claimed, “I wrote it
(the report) down hastily.”

The defense tan-
dem also sought to prove that,
from Reeder’ s lower vantage
point, it would have been
virtually physically impos-

GRE

What willa
core

“KAPLAN
1-800-KAP-TEST

www.kaplan.com

sible for him to know on exactly what section
Halbauer allegedly cheated.

Also, Reeder stated Wednesday night that he
saw Halbauer leaning “periodically throughout
the test,’ even. though the multiple choice section
should have taken only 30 to 45 minutes.

Halbauer claimed he spent “35 to 45 minutes
only on multiple choice,” and never once revisited
that particular portion of the exam.

Also working in Halbauer’s favor was his

‘ alarming consistency on test grades in the course.

On all three exams.— including the final, which
was not cumulative — Halbauer made a 71 per-
cent.

He had a 78, or C+, going into the final, and
needed — according to Striplin — “‘a 54 or 55”
percent on the Dec. 18 exam to end up witha C in
the course.

And due to a concussion he suffered Dec. 10
in the UNC Charlotte game and an ensuing hospi-
tal stay, Halbauer had been granted permission by
Striplin to take the exam whenever he felt ad-
equately prepared.

When asked why he chose to take it in the last
regular final exam period, Halbauer said he felt
prepared enough to not have to take an extension.

Ultimately, this evidence was enough to put
Halbauer’s apparent guilt into question and prompt
the Council members — Claire Cheetwood, Katie
Nelson, Matthew Ellis, Liz Clasen, Austin Rios,
and Regina Marranzini — to levy a verdict of
innocence.

“We expected (the verdict of innocence),”
Hart said. “What we presented, we thought we
clouded it enough to where it was not clear and
convincing evidence. We just wanted to create
doubt in the Council’s mind.”

“I wasn’t surprised by the verdict,” Colbert
added, “because I thought the case went as well as
it could have gone for us.

“In my heart, I felt that Davor was not guilty.”

Said McKillop: “I was absolutely thrilled
with the verdict. I was extremely confident in
Davor’s honor and integrity, I think it was very
clear and apparent that Davor has a record of
integrity and honor since he’s been here at David-
son College.”

When reached Thursday afternoon, Fisher
declined comment.

a great

get you?

proven results

® UE |

world better,

It's the small things that make this

Call Randy Skattum at x6667.

Layout is a small thing.

oe ae ee et Nt EEN ee renee.
- NS es ys Oe Ae Or se ened eam
et erates eee
