NOTICE TO STUDENTS
Changes in Student Health Facillity Hours

Davidson College is committed to providing the best Student Health Service our resources make possible and to
making the best possible use of students’ tuition dollars. Consistent with these commitments, the College will
change Student Health Service hours, having determined that after-hours on-site nursing is no longer being
sufficiently utilized to warrant the expense of keeping a nurse on premises around the clock.

The Student Health Service will continue to offer unchnaged medical services, 24 hours ‘a day, seven days a
week, but nurses will be available after hours only on an as-necessary basis.. Nurses will no longer stay at the
facility overnight unless there in a student inpatient. This effects a change in when the Student Health Facility is
staffed and its doors are open. Beginning Monday, Feb. 2, the Student Health Facility will be open, with a nurse
staying on the premises, only during the following:

-NEW-
STUDENT HEALTH

REGULAR Facitity Hours
7:30 a.m.-9:30 p.m., Monday through Friday

Please note that there is no change in Sick Call hours (when physicians or physician assistants regularly see
students): Monday-Friday, 1:30 p.m.-4:30 p.m.

AFTER-HOURS EMERGENCIES:

For medical emergencies on weekends and
after-hours, access from a touch-tone phone:

NURSE-ON-CALL BEEPER: 337-7047

When beeped, the Nurse-On-Call will address your situation initially by telephone. She will determine whether
you can be seen appropriately during regular clinic hours, as stated above, or whether you need to be seen face-
to-face for immediate assessment or treatment. If so, she will instruct you on how she can meet you at the
Student Health Facility for assessment/treatment. If instead she determines that you need full Emergency Room
Care (examples: possibly broken bone, need for stitches), you will be referred to one of the area hospitals.

If you have questions or concerns about these changes, call the Student Health Center Director, Dr. David
: Staton, at x245].
