: __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Dawgs, cats, cars: Millions of Youth and Lo

Men and women

y last two have solely

M toward the male gender so I decided to conquer a

new topic this week— pets, in particular, cats and dogs and the men and women who love

them. You see, cats are very girly and dogs are well. ..manly. Cars are like this, too; I think I’ll talk about
them as well.

Cats are like women in that cats are...oh gosh...moody. I’ve seen cats sitting perfectly still and

columns been

quiet and all of a sudden need to get up and run like hell
into the next room...for no reason. What’s in there?
Is Mighty Mouse heckling the cat on a frequency humans

can’t hear? “Hey Cat! You
get an ass kicking!” Sound
want to go to TCBY NOW!
!” My wonderful long

suck! C’mon in here and
familiar guys? “Honey, I
Or you’re getting an ass
kicking! distance love (Cort Heroy,
you're my hero) has many a time gone from “Jimmy,
you're so sweet” to “Jimmy, you have the brains of an odor eater” in a matter of seconds, Cats are like
this.

You know whatelse cats do? They do stuff for the sole purpose of pissing people off like pooping
in your shoes or shedding all over your brand new clothes. After all, how many movies are made about
cats? Real cats, not counting Simba:and the posse at Disney? That’s right, none.

Dogs have 4 different story. Seven thousand, nine hundred and sixty-eight trillion years ago a
caveman named Booger was walking around the glaciers looking for a woolly mammoth to run away
from. Anyway, Booger found a small, young puppy dog named Larry. Soon they went hunting and
killed some stuff and ate it; after that, a friendship was born. So, dogs and man became the happy couple
they are today. ,

See, dogs, like man, have several distinguishable qualities. Dogs and guys havea very distinct. ..odor.
We both smell....pretty bad....but that’s the way we like it! For example, walk down a guy’s hall and,
take a deep breath, not too deep it might be dangerous. Now, walk down the sweet -smelling hall of some
girls; notice a difference?

Dogs also enjoy lying around and sleeping and eating, and so do guys! Dogs enjoy running after
stuff, killing it, eating it, and then sleeping. Do you know what dogs need? They need Depends. I think
that dogs figure if they pee on enough stuff they’ II get some kind of plaque that says “Sparky is the biggest
bad-ass on the face of the earth: Bow Down and worship Sparky” and a valuable prize such as a million
trash cans to knock over and rummage though.

Now let’s talk about cars; don’t worry, this won’t be an in-depth comment on how cars are the
greatest invention since the pogo stick. Different cars have genders! It’s easy to see!..really! I'll take
two examples. Example one is a Dodge Ram truck. Trucks are big, loud, reliable, and they help you
carry things. They are like the best buddy you go tailgating with, except they won't puke all over your
carpet. Trucks aren’t pretty; they don’t scream “Look at me!” A truck is that buddy that’ ll come get you

directed:

out of jail and take you from point A to point B.

Now let’s take aCorvette. A Corvette is a beautiful car that has grace and elegance that trucks could
only dream of. It has feminine curves and a beautiful voice. Let me explain: unlike trucks, corvettes
are objects to be yearned after. You see, a corvette has to be cared after and maintained; a truck doesn’t.

Corvettes must be clean and presentable at all times, much like a female. Trucks. .
in mud and you'd still present them, much like your buddies.

My mom’s coming over here!”

.well...can be covered
“Norm! Get that beer box off your head!

A Corvette isn’t that buddy that you go tailgating with. It’s that girl (my Ashley) you just love to
be with and can’t get enough of. However, the Corvette wouldn’t come and get you out of jail; most likely
you'd be in jail with or because of the Corvette. All of a male’s problems have to do with that fact —
“What in the hell do you think you’ re doing touching my vette (girl),” followed by a massive beat-down
similar to Stone Cold Steye Austin opening a can of whoop-ass on, say, David Schwimmer.

Well, on that pleasant note, I need to go and do some more work involving the high-speed physics
of highway driving and defending my title as World-God-Sega-Champion.

e’ve all been there before—looking
at the clock slowly (or sometimes
too quickly) tick away the morning

hours.as-we’ve sat there trying to.cram every-
thing into our heads. Caribou Coolers and
cappuccino quickly give way to instant coffee
and Coke in desperate attempts to stay awake.

we emerge—
from Cham-
bers (or wher-
ever) looking
like a dog’s
lunch and feel-
ing like death
warmed over.
Not only are
procrastination and then all-nighters the worst
way to study and a source of caffeine overload
(trust me, I know), but they also rob us of the
reason our parents are paying $27,000 — our
education.

Too often, we get stuck into the mentality
that grades are all that matter. Ican’t count how
many times I’ ve heard people stress over grades
in the last week. I, too, am guilty of stressing,
and I can name the high school classes, such as
AP Bio and AP Chem, for which studied for the
test and then promptly forgot everything. These
classes have done little for mé because I saw
them as grades and AP. test scores rather than
classes.

In our pursuit of the “A,” the grade be-
comes more important than the knowledge it

What’s in a grade?

Learning is what counts

Then, the night finally gives way to the ey, and

represents. Yet, this grade won’t carry nearly as
much weight once we join the real world. Our
employers will initially be impressed with our
grades, but our knowledge will matter more.
Besides, the real reason for higher education
should not be to get a good job but to be well-
educated. (I know this statement is unrealistic,
but I’m allowed to be an idealist.) College gives

us some. idea of the enor-] —

mous wealth of knowledge ,
available and inspires us to
become more learned. Us-
ing Davidson as a starting
place, we should try to un-
derstand the world better
and to make a contribution.
Even above the

pursuit of ‘cicilodaes should be the pursuit of
fulfillment. Hopefully, the sum of our educa-
tion—secondary school and beyond—will give
us some idea of how we fit in the world. I think
that everyone wants to feel that his life has some
purpose, and through education, we should be
able to find that purpose.

Therefore, next time you fill your body with
caffeine and head off to Chambers (or seclude
yourself somewhere else) think about why and
what you’ re studying instead of just going into
the studying overdrive. All of those notes do
have more meaning than tomorrow’s review or
the distant exam. The all-nighter and the review
will have little meaning in a few days, but the
knowledge they represent will remain for a life-
time.

Topic 1: Million Youth March

Okay, so New York shut down a Million
Youth March. Fine, sounds good to me. What's
the big deal? A group of about 6,000 youth
(hmmm, 6,000 equals a million? I would have
done much better in Calculus if such liberties with
numbers were possible), assembled in New York
City to rant and rave about something. What they
were marching for, no one has made clear to me
yet. Mayor Guilliani had police break up the rally
after their legal time to meet had expired. What’s
the problem here?

Apparently, the police had to forcibly break
up the march after participants began throwing
bottles and bricks at the officers, Let me stop right
here. If people start throwing bricks at police,
then I firmly believe that these cops should have

Topic 1: Million Youth March

Imagine it: You and a few thousand of your
closest friends are standing in the street at an
organized, peaceful, socially significant rally, when,
near the end of the scheduled events, a helicopter
begins buzzing overhead, sweeping across the
crowd at very low.altitudes. The next thing you
know, police are storming the power generators
and sound systems behind the stage. Then these
same police, in full riot gear including tear gas,
have rushed the stage. What are you to think about
your attempt to make a public statement? What are
these actions by the local authorities saying about
the importance of your views?

After a long struggle to get a permit to have a
rally, the organizers of the Million Youth March

busted out the rubber bullets and stopped this sort
of business. People these days feel that for any
pathetic little cause, they should be allowed to
disrupt order and civility. Freedom in America
extends to the point that it does not infringe upon
other’s rights. And when protesters begin attack-
ing police forces for no good reason, then they
lose all rights of assembly. I am personally proud
that such a disruptive and undirected march was
broken up.

This march, in theory, came about as an
attempt to promote African American youth, but
according to Knight-Ridder news service, fewer
than a third of those present at the march were
youth. Does that make a youth march? I think not.
This “march” was exactly what dutiful Mayor
Guilliani feared, a forum for the hate-spewing
Khallid Abdul Muhammad to attempt to incite
anger. To let such a man as Muhammad have a

public forum such as a sanctioned march was a

travesty in the first place. For heaven’s sake, even
Louis Farrakhan dismissed Muhammad as an aide
in 1994. When Farrakhan, noted for his own anti-
Semitism, tells Muhammad to hit the pavement,
then everyone should realize that Muhammad’s
ignorance and hate must be unparalleled.

I believe the police in this case acted fairly,
and in fact would have been justified to have acted
harsher.

Topic 2: Hooking up in a lofted bed

Fine, so those lofted beds are great for space
conservation in the small rooms we all enjoy at
Davidson, but I mean, really, hooking up in them
is no fun at all. They’re rickety and dangerous at
three in the morning after along night on the Court
when you and that special someone are enjoying
each other’s company. So what’s the solution to
this predicament?

Every room should come equipped with a
flip-and-fold chair (okay, so no one calls them by
that name, but discretion is necessary in print). A
blanket or comforter on top of the flip-and-fold
creates a lovely, comfortable bed area for
everyone’s convenience.

Also, one should not overlook the possibility
of using that unlofted bed. Sure, it may not be

yours, but if you throw a sheet over it, noone will J

know, right? Fine, so that’s a little weird and
awkward, but, hey, for a good evening, it’s worth
a little bit of awkwardness.

At least, that’s the way I see it.

were sadly and forcibly kept quiet. Beginning with
an original denial of a march permit by the city, the
marchers appealed and received a permit for a
certain time slot, a slot much shorter than the
original plans called for. So they had the march,
and before it was even over, police in riot suits
began surrounding the premises. Why?
These people, these young people, were exer-
cising their right as Americans to speak freely
about their views and opinions of our country and
our society. Granted, the keynote speaker may
have had a militant message, a strongly anti-white
message, anempowering message to young blacks.
But it was a message he was free to deliver, and a
message that the peaceful marchers were free to

hear. How can anyone have the right to grant a

permit for a constitutional right? Maybe I'll start
selling permits I made on my computer, with little
shiny gold foil medallion seals available in the
bookstore. It just doesn’t make sense to me.
Topic 2: Hooking up in a lofted bed

You know, many people think that it’s pre-
carious to climb up the side of the bed frame into
their cozy little sack. Some may even be a little
afraid of heights. But for me, there just isn’t much
like the thrill of seeing everything from an entirely
new angle.

Yes, yes, the low bed or bunk is more conve-
nient. Yes, perhaps less awkward and dangerous.
But if I want those things, why not use the floor and
have the freedom of movement instead of the
confines of a college-issued, extra-long twin bed?

The lofted bed approach may be more appeal-
ing to a variety of people, such as skydivers,
bungy-jumpers, or even platform divers. Hey,
they like diving in deep from high up, so why not
emulate that in a bed?

Anyway, what I’m trying to say is that it’s just
more interesting that way and can spice up your
typical Patterson Court weekend with a new angle
to things. So climb up, get down, and thank me
later.

So folks, that’s the real truth to me.

WRITE FOR Op-Ep.

COUNTRY, RIGHT?
Call Erin (x6064).

