THE DAVIDSONIAN

Speaker discusses his research on the lives of a variety of snake

By MorGcan Downer

Staff Writer

Dr. Michael Dorcas, who has studied thermal
biology’s relationship to ecological history at Idaho
State University, has been researching the rubber
boa, a brownish-green snake that inhabits the sage
bushes of Idaho.

A snake’s temperature is affected by the
physical environment outside it, and this tempera-
ture affects the biological functions. So, ona cold
day, everything from simple oxygen intake to
crawling speed is diminished. Snakes seem to
undergo a mild hibernation in moderate tempera-
tures, as well as being totally active or dormant in
winter or summer.

The body temperature of a snake, Dorcas
explained, comes about due to the interaction of
animal characteristics such as size and color and
abiotic factors such as solar radiation, air tempera-
ture, and ground temperature. These produce a
range of possible body temperatures. The behav-
ior of the snake, such as if it were to crawl into the
sunlight, produces the actual temperature.

The behavior, however, can be influenced by

ecological factors. For instance, the presence of a
hawk would prevent a snake from crawling into
the sun. This temperature then affects the speed of
the functions in the snake’s body, which in turn has

‘an ecological effect in that a slow snake cannot

catch as much prey or escape as many predators.
So, as natural selection acts to eliminate the less
effective genetics in the snake population, the
animal characteristics are in turn affected.

This is the theory of co-adaptation, behavior
matching physiology. Dorcas’s research con-
sisted of testing the theory as applied to the rubber
boa. Does this theory fit, he asked, and if not, why
not?

A dated method of determining a snake’s
temperature was to simply catch one and take its
temperature, in the “grab-and-jab” method. In-
stead, Dorcas surgically implanted radio transmit-
ters into the snakes. Rubber boas take on this light
burden well, and so were chosen to be studied.
They also do well in the lab.

Rubber boas are a type of boa constrictor, in
the same family as the 30-foot-long anaconda,

though rubber boas are significantly shorter, about |

two feet long.

These snakes, despite recovering well from
their surgeries, are not the easiest snakes to work
with. They are very secretive. Also, when grabbed
or threatened, they give off a terrible smell and a
toothpaste-like substance that burns the skin and
eyes.
In order to carry out his research, Dorcas had
to perform three specific tasks. He measured the
snakes’ body temperature variation in the field.
Then, in the lab, he measured the thermal depen-
dence of multiply biological functions. Finally, in
order to determine the extent of co-adaptation,
Dorcas compared the findings to see if the activi-
ties coincide with the body temperatures. _

In the fieldwork area, Dorcas, recorded the
temperature from afar, so that he could continue to
observe the snakes’ patterns underground. Dorcas
also planted snake models, long copper pipes, in

.direct sunlight, in the shade, and underground in
order to get a range of all possible temperatures.

Next, Dorcas measured the thermal depen-
dence of different biological functions in the lab.
He looked specifically at six functions: crawling
speed, escape speed, tongue flicking, gastric di-
gestive rate, passage rate, and oxygen consump-

New PCC Members learn

tion. He measured the snakes’ performances in
each of these areas at different temperatures, try-
ing to discover if they are most efficient at a certain
temperature.

The ultimate résults of the experiment were
that while temperature did affect every function in
some way, they were not all affected in the same
way. The snakes’ behavior, however, for the most
part, matched the physiology. ;

The only anomaly is that the rubber boa is a
nocturnal snake, even though the speed of this
already slow snake is very much diminished at
night. So, questioned Dorcas, why would the
snake come out at night? There are several poten-
tial advantages to this behavior. First, magpies,
the snakes’ main predators, are a daytime hunter.
Second, the rubber boa eats mice, mice are about
at night, and at night the snake can stay out on the
surface longer because there is no risk of overheat-
ing in order to catch them.

So why haven’t the snakes evolved to be
more physically suited to being nocturnal? Dorcas
answered, there is just low selection pressure.
Apparently, for escaping predators and finding
food, the current system is working just fine.

Hamer speaks in 900 Room

Sexual orientation may be linked to genetics

By MereDITH BEATTIE
Staff Writer

On Monday evening, first-year
eating house members and fraternity
house pledges participated in the sec-
ond part of the New Member Series
implemented by Patterson Court this
year. This program, designed to ad-
dress the issue of alcohol use and abuse,
is the first comprehensive mandatory
program of its kind.

The first part of the program be-
gan last Thursday, when members of
the Mecklenburg County chapter of
MADD (Mothers Against Drunk Driv-
ing) presented their program. It con-
sisted of acombination of the statistics
that students hear often. Illustrating
the truth of these statistics were per-
sonal stories that made these numbers
more tangible and more alarming.

However, Monday’s program by
Judge Fleming of Little Rock, Ark.,
brought both a different perspective
and a lighter approach to the dangers
of alcohol abuse.

For a number of years, Fleming
has given a unique presentation to
public high schools in Little Rock. By
becoming involved with his children’s
activities, Fleming also became aware
of the challenges and decisions facing
teenagers, and of the amount and type
of information available for them to
make informed decisions.

Judge michael Martone, Judge
Fleming’s program consists of actual
trials held in the schools themselves,
followed by a complementary speech.
This program goes to public junior and
high schools twice a month, a constant
reinforcement of a message advising
the dangers of drinking, especially in
conjunction with vehicles.

Beyond high school students,
Fleming felt that there was another au-
dience in need of the information he
possessed: college students. Recent
studies have traced an increase in binge
drinking on college campuses. Events
show the tragedies that often accom-
pany this behavior, such as the death of
two freshmen at Louisiana State Uni-
versity and MIT. “I wanted to bring my
program to the college level,” said

Fleming, “and a great place to start |

would be at my alma mater, Davidson
College.”

After approaching Dean of Stu-
dents Tom Shandley about presenting
his program, Fleming worked with
Health Advisor Georgia Ringle and
Patterson Court Advisor Jim Barber.

Fleming’s college program has
been modified to incorporate informa-
tion pertinent to college-age students.
Though there Was no court trial, a pre-
sentation of a video showing one of his
trials was shown at the beginning of the
program.

Following this was statistical in-
formation and a video of one individual

about alcohol use and abuse

Judge Vic Fleming speaks during Alcohol Awareness Week

who became a statistic. This young
man killed his friend and injured his
girlfriend while operating a car under
the influence of alcohol. He, like
many others to whom Judge Fleming
alluded, seemed to have the same
mentality that it would never happen
to him.

Instead of approaching this men-
tality with the normal preaching
method, Fleming used humor and spe-
cific strategies to bring his point home.
He told anecdotal stories and passed
out a driver’s license-sized card, on
which there was'a chart to help iden-
tify the number of drinks people can
drink safely according to weight and
gender.

Among the humorous stories of
his Phi Delt days, Fleming also stressed
an aspect that enters into the picture of
college life whenever drinking is in-
volved: rape, specifically date rape.
Fleming explained the penalties and
made some suggestions of how to pro-
ceed if someone feels uncomfortable
at all. He advised following gut in-
stincts and escaping the situation be-
fore it becomes serious.

Fleming was by no means es-
pousing drinking, but rather providing
safety information in the event that
drinking does occur. He provided a
new perspective on how to make a
better campus in terms of safety on
both a personal level and; with rela-
tionships.

Inspired and aided by the work of

By ME.issA ANN DECASTRIQUE
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, Feb. 18, at 7:30
p.m., Dr. Dean Hamer of the National
Institutes of Health presented a lecture
entitled “Is Homosexuality Genetically
Linked?” in the 900 Room.

Hamer cited three possible rea-
sons as to why sexual orientation may
be genetic. According to the research
done by Hamer and his colleagues in the
forms of brain studies, twin and nuclear
family studies, and evolution analysis,
astrong correlation exists between genes
and sexual preference.

Hamer first informed the audience
of the method used to gauge sexual
preference, the Kinsey Scale. This scale
has a zero to six range, with zero repre-
senting a completely heterosexual indi-
vidual and six representing acompletely
homosexual individual. One’s mea-
surement on the scale is based on self-
identification, attraction, fantasy, and
behavior.

The typical male is placed on one
end of the scale or another, wheras
females are distributed among all seven
scale degrees.

Hamer explained a study of pedi-
gree patterns that had been done in the
search for a genetic link between sexu-
ality and genes. Upon analysis of pedi-
grees of gay males, researchers found
that all gay male relatives tended to be
on the mother’s side.. Hamer offered
three possible explanations for the ma-
ternal transmission of sexual orienta-
tion: an X chromosome link, maternal
imprinting, or a dominant gene with
reduced reproduction. ;

Hamer also talked about a linkage

analysis involving the sibling-pair

method, in which the genes of homo-

sexual brothers were studied for simi-

larities. This research revealed simi-

larities on the Xq28 area of the X chro-

mosome. Hamer summarized his stud-
ies by stating that these results con-
firmed.a 1000-1 chance of a correlation
between that gene and.sexual orienta-
tion.

In addition to explaining the im-
portance of this discovery, Hamer told
the audience of scientific criticisms of
the research. Since the research had
only been done once and the link was
only statistical, some scientists feel that
the study’s results may be misleading.

Also, the exact effects of Xq28
have yet to be determined. Researchers
do not know if the genetic implications
are direct or indirect. Hamer explained
that although a strong correlation exists
between genes and sexuality, one’s
sexual orientation is also probably a
product of other factors, as well.

One of the main points of Hamer’s
lecture was to stress the importance of
studying sexuality. Hamer believes that,
had researchers known more about sexu-
ality when AIDS was first publicly rec~ -
ognized, fewer deaths would have oc-
curred, since more people would have
known the causes of the HIV virus.

After expressing the danger of ig-
norance about sexual matters, Hamer
took questions from the audience about
sexual research on topics ranging from
environmental influences to continuum
genes.

Hamerrecommended that students
wanting to know more about sexual
studies should read his book, “The Sci-
ence of Desire.”

The World’s Leading Provider of

Solutic
