OLAS makes waves

BY TREVOR STANLEY

Staff Writer

Fun, friends, and dancing — just another night out on Patterson Court? No, last Thursday night
students participated in the first campus event held this year by OLAS (The Organization of Latin
American Students). The night got many people from all around campus and the Davidson Community
to dance to Latin American music.

Taken from the mission statement, the purpose of OLAS is to establish and maintain a spirit of
solidarity among Latin American, Hispanic American, and Spanish students at Davidson College. The
organization strives to create a sense of awareness of Latino and Spanish Culture within the community
of Davidson. By sponsoring events such as the Latin Dance Workshop, OLAS is working to make
waves (olas in Spanish) and to achieve its goals.

This year at Davidson, the Latin American Community is bigger than ever. In the Class of 2002
alone, eighteen students are Spanish, Hispanic, or Latin American. President Mauricio Sauma said,
“OLAS is here to bring the flavor of Latin American Culture to Davidson College.”

OLAS not only, plans to spice up college life, but the group also wants to have a strong impact on
the community. Community Service Chairman Brent Wilson said, “Our primary goal is to build
bridges, connecting the Davidson College community with the surrounding Hispanic Community. The
interaction between the two cultures creates an atmosphere that allows for open communication and a
mutual understanding of the cultural differences.”

OLAS has many future events planned such as the Cafe Tango study break, which will be held in
the Morrison Room of the Union from 9:00 to 11:30 p.m. on Wednesday, September 16. Also, every
Monday in Vail Commons, there is a Spanish table where students can test their Spanish speaking
ability. Everyone is invited to take a study break at either of these events.

OLAS meetings will be held every other Monday in the Conference Room of the Union starting
September 14. Anybody can join; and membership is free. Also, there is no obligation to remain in
OLAS.

The members of OLAS want to help the non-Hispanic students understand the Latin American
culture and the Hispanic students fit into a new environment. Sauma said, “We (OLAS) are here for
all of you.”

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

RENRY Divs ARE HERE AGAIN
SERVICE Money AVAILABLE

The Sunshine Lady Foundation hopes to brighten the lives of six deserving
Davidson students by providing them with funds to donate toward their
respective service interests. Sunbeams are provided with $10,000 each to spend
on a cause. Specific guidelines for divying the funds are provided after grants
are awarded, as the Sunshine Lady Foundation awards grants to individuals
rather than causes.

Students interested in becoming a Sunbeam must complete a proposal
explaining why they should fill one of the slots. Students should provide
compelling reasons why they would be the “perfect” person to spend this money.
The Sunbeams who are selected will receive a packet of information from the
Sunshine Lady Foundation and will have one year to spend the money.

Grants on DaVidson’s campus are available to a sophomore, junior, and
senior Bonner Scholar, and a sophomore, junior, and senior service student.
Interested students may contact Ruth Pittard for at 2133 for information.

Classic Menu from Quality Ingredients

Classic Subs Classic Salads

Classic Italian Italian Chef

The Traditional Tuna Chef

Beefeater Italiano Turkey Turkey

Bar-B-Quizno Garden Salad

Meatball . and more!

Veggie Delicious, Homestyle Soup

Turkey Bacon & and Chili .

Guacamole =—s-—- Quiz Kidz Menu

Tuna Turnberry Place  &

. and more! (Exit 28 I-77) \

19712 One Norman Blvd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
895-9202

ELS]

Now Hiring:
Bakers &

Counter Service
Personnel

* Full & Part-time positions available
¢ Flexible Part-time hours that fit
between class schedules °

Apply in person at the following location:

South Lake Shopping Center eee
(704) 896-3199

(Torrance Chapel Rd. in Cornelius)

Equal Opportunity paploye

