ing: “Come on people now, smile on
your brother, everybody get together,
gotta love one another right now.”
Anybody know who wrote that song? Just

I had this dream that someone got slightly
peeved at one of my articles. Yes, I know,
hard to imagine. As a kind of sick “revenge”
(for lack of a better word), this person kid-

curious. naped one

So is of my
the Op-ed Mike McCase ro-0'm -
section in mates,
need of a proceeded
nice “Ilove to chop his
you” kind Crabbie Says body into
of article, small
or what? . parts, and

You could have cut the tension in last weeks
Op-ed section with something very dull. IfI
didn’t know better of my Davidson cohorts I
would have guessed one or two people on this
campus missed Sunday service last week,
because angry people were just coming out of
the woodwork. My guess is that midterms are
making people cranky around here, espe-
cially those freshman, since it is their first
crack at that great fun. But please, please,
please, (emphasis on please) do not take this
the wrong way. I, for one, am very proud of
the student body as a whole, freshman among
you, who have taken the initiative to write in
to The Davidsonian. You inspire Crabbie to
be a better man. And today shall be my first
demonstration.

Now, don’t call me David Copperfield,
but I shall now attempt the impossible: to turn
the tides of Op-ed hatred. “But Crabbie,
aren’t you the original sin so to speak— the
sultan of swat. . .the bambino of evil?” Un-
doubtedly, yes, and as much as I hate to ruin
the miraculous reputation that I have estab-
lished in my stint as king of the Op-Ed section
(sorry... I’m still working on the modesty
issue (and excuse me Mr. Heroy, but last
week you may have mistakenly said I was not
the final authority on Davidson’s literary
minds. I'll be expecting an apology, just so
you know. Hmpf.), I think it is time for a
change. Someone wise once told me change
is good, and I'd hate to disappoint.

Okay, time for the truth. The other night

then dump these individual pieces of flesh on
my body while I slept. Beside the fact that I
have some, let’s just say, sick dreams, this
was fairly disturbing, as you might imagine.
Thus, for one week I will not worry about
whom I may or may not have offended, and be
happy.

Not to impose my ideologies on every-
body else or anything, because if you’ ve ever
read my column, you know that is not the kind
of guy I am, but I just think that maybe we
should bea little kinder to our fellow students.
I know Davidson is very, very, very (stress
very) unfamiliar with this term, but let’s make
love, not war. Okay? Then maybe we’d have
the kinder, gentler, Davidson we all desire.

So in the spirit of love, I'd like to propose
that the Friday of this week, in honor of
Homecoming, be yum yum day. All women
should wear their yum yum pants, you know,
the tight black ones you wear to drop jaws as
you strut into class (don’t give me that, I know
you’ ve all got a pair), and men should wear
jeans. You know, just in case a girl with yum
yums on should sit on your lap (sometimes I
can’t believe what I write — and even more
often, I can’t believe what I write knowing
that several of my professors read this col-
umn).

Damn it, I wasn’t going to offend any-
body. I suppose this week will be another one
of pleasant dreaming for me. But joking
aside, next week, let’s just try to be nice.
Because nice is good.

Chambers and the VAC:

Facilitating intellectual growth

hile the
goals of
energy

consumption and lim-
iting the growth of tu-
ition are certainly wor-
thy objectives foracol-
lege to have, they
should not detract from a college’s primary mis-
sion: to provide for and facilitate the intellectual
growth of its students. Correspondingly, the
center of controversy regarding the possibility of
closing Chambers and the Visual Arts Center
from the hours | a.m. to 6 a.m. is misplaced and
ignores a few crucial and undeniable points.
Closing the VAC and Chambers late at night
would severely hinder the academic potential of
important constituencies of Davidson students.
Part of what makes Chambers and the VAC
invaluable to students are the unique academic
study opportunities offered there and no where
else on campus. Many students do not have the
privilege of owning a computer or a printer and
the end of the 24-Hour Computer Lab would
place these students at a distinct disadvantage
compared to those students who do. The comput-
ers offered elsewhere on campus prove to be
inadequate to fill students needs, as most Davidson
students have shared the displeasure of finishing
papers after the hour of 1'a.m. The VAC is
similarly indispensable to students, as it offers
academic opportunities available nowhere else
oncampus. When an Art History test the next day
requires studying slides after | a.m., where are
students supposed to go? And if Studio Art
majors receive a sudden flowering of inspiration
at 12:30 a.m., wouldn’t it be disadvantageous to
force them to abandon both their body of work
and artistic growth because of something so arbi-
trary as a building’s closing time? In effect,
closing Chambers and the VAC serves to impose
acurfew on the academic and intellectual achieve-
ment of all those who have no other venue in

ee Bensamin WoLFF |

tudent Opinion

which to work after one
in the morning.
Well, one couldask,
wouldn’t restricting
computer, studio, slide,
and'study access late at
night serve to instill re-
sponsibility and time
management in students with late night proclivi-
ties? This view proves to be flawed. As a student
body which values pursuits such as athletics, com-
munity service, andemployment, many often have
to push academic work late into the night to accom-
modate such desired balance and eclecticism. It
would be counter-productive to the ideals of both
the student body and the administration to force
students to abandon these pursuits in order. to
comply with the 1 a.m. academic curfew.

It would certainly be advantageous for the
administration to cut the fat from Davidson’s bud-
get so as to restrain tuition growth. However, any
cut in expenses needs to be consistent with the
primary mission of Davidson: to provide for the
education of its students. Closing Chambers with-
out an extension of 24-hour status to another com-
puter center on campus and closing the VAC
clearly do not pass this litmus test. Instead of
saving money at the expense of students’ educa-
tion, the administration should focus on hitherto
undiscussed ideas of greater fiscal responsibility.
For example, with all the talk about budget cuts,
why does the College spend thousands of dollars
needlessly laying down new brick walkways and
enlarging older ones, and wholly replacing sod and
flower beds the week before Parents’ Weekend, as
if superficiality and style count for more than
academics? And if energy conservation is the goal,
why doesn’t the College turn off most lights in the
halls of the dorms late at night? It seems inconceiv-
able that there exists the possibility of losing late
night access to the academically vital Chambers
and VAC buildings, while more logical and less
detrimental solutions seem quite apparent.

Davidson is a privilege we don’t deserve

Chris Murray, in his article in last week’s Davidsonian, wrote, ‘I am fed up with the lack of
ingenuity and intelligence in most of the (Davidsonian’ ) articles.” Frankly, I agree. I began most
articles last week only to move on after, two or three sentences later, I realized that they had sunk again
to the typical level of conversation in Davidsonians of years past; that is, petty and immature
squabbling over personal attacks irrelevant to all but a few members of our campus. I think our paper
can be so much more than that. I applaud Cort Heroy for devoting the time it takes to write a weekly
article, and since I.don’t make any attempt to do his job better, I have no room to complain. Ditto
Kristen Taylor, Mike McCabe, and all the other Op-Ed writers. However, Mr. Murray’s statement
got me to thinking that perhaps the Op-Ed section should put the Op
back in the name. It should be a place for people to express

‘opinions, as Chris said, with ingenuity and intelligence. Thus, I
propose that we use The Davidsonian’s Op-Ed section as a place to
discuss ideas, issues, and events that have an impact on our life —
racism, religion, and capitalism rather than magnetic silverware,
Cort Heroy’s degree of boredom, and small-packaged streakers. I
hope to begin this trend here with my article. —

Today, I would like to talk about what has become probably
the greatest moral dilemma I face at Davidson. Over fall break, I
traveled throughout our country’s mid-Atlantic and New England regions, spending much of my time
in major cities like New York and Philadelphia. Though I had spent a great deal of time in these cities
before, my trip served as a vivid reminder of the way our society has divided up the rich and the poor,
the black and the white, the privileged and the non-privileged. I was once again horrified as I retraced
my route to the neighborhood development program in which I worked two semesters ago, watching
the rich white sections of central and eastern Philadelphia stop abruptly and transform into an
exclusively minority, exclusively poor, sprawling urban ruin. While I was in Philadelphia, I learned
more graphically than ever before just how our country’s division have persisted for so long.

When Karl Marx advocated the dissolution of the institution of the family, he did so mainly out
of concern for the question of inheritance. The question of inheritance is still relevant, and indeed
is one of the main guiding forces in determining one’s place in the order of society. Today, we inherit
much more than just money — we inherit privelege. Because of my parents, I have had opportunities
that others have not had. Ihave had the opportunity now to travel to 47 states and 10 countries. [have
had the opportunity to read book after book after book from the time I could say “See Dick Run.” I
have had the opportunity to attend camps, conferences, and colloquiums that have immeasurably
added to my education. My parents’ money has allowed me, in effect, to become educated where
others are not.

We all know that education brings with it so much in terms of life opportunities. We all seek

' the greatest possible grades, the most and highest honors, degrees, and so on, all in order to secure
ajob that will pay us lots of money and give us a lot of status. It is unimaginable that someone without
a college diploma could compete with us for jobs. And yet, that means that we have a leg up on 75

percent of the population. Three out of four people never complete college.

This figure is striking, and it makes us feel pretty good about ourselves. Wow, we say, we are
smarter than three out of four people. But are we smarter, or just richer? Thinking back to my
childhood, I can see opportunities for education everywhere, accompanied by one major requirement
—money. When we are honest with ourselves, we will see that there are plenty of people equally as
smart whose parents had no money to pay for private school. There are plenty of people equally as
intellectually curious whose parents could not take a vacation from work long enough to travel. There
are plenty of people equally as driven who had no safe, welcoming place in which to do homework
and study.

This brings me tothe moral dilemma. I am here
because of my money, not because of my talent. There is
definitely something wrong with that. So, I have a few
choices. I can renounce the whole %ystem, take a low-
paying job in which I try to change the system, and
ultimately try to avoid the opportunites and priveleges I get
as a'result of my place in the system. This works fine for
me, but when I have children, where will they go to school?
I am proud that I have gotten to the point where I can say
“Hey, money is not that important, and I cannot live in a system of privelege,”’ but I have only gotten
to that point after years of education and experience in that system. I want my children to have the
opporuntity to make the same choice, or to choose differently. Such an opportunity, however, requires
me to make money, and to spend that money on my children. Therefore, in order to give my children
an opportunity to denounce the system, I have to buy into the system. And my children will have to
do the same for their children, So what we will have is a self-perpetuating guilty participation
complex, each subsequent generation wanting to find another way, but refusing to in the interest of
the next generation.

I cannot find a way out of the dilemma, other than to accept and enjoy my unearned privilege,
and that I cannot do. I feel that society has to change, or rather, that we as the well-intentioned and
well-educated must change society. We are ina position because of our privilege to make a substantial
contribution to the way this country is structured. We are in a position to change the system.

This is a responsibility we must take seriously. In the coming years, we must attempt to change
this system that gives and takes based on the income of one’s parents. In my mind, we must set certain
standards of living for everyone to enjoy. As the richest nation in the world, there is no excuse for
homelessness or hunger. There is really no excuse for poverty, but that is more complicated. And
maybe it is time for us to say that there is no excuse for lack of education. Perhaps if we take a stand
and make education a priority, perhaps if we work to provide the same educational opportunities both .
in elementary and high school and in college, perhaps if we make a college education not only
available but mandatory for everyone, we can finally begin to divide up our society, if we must divide
it up, on the basis of merit and not on the basis of Daddy’s dollars.

