Joey Harris
Freshman Class President

Students Must Move On

The apprehensive period that followed
Homecoming weekend spawned many opin-
ions from across this campus and may bring
about some crucial changes here at Davidson.
Ever since the deplorable incident occurred
where a racial slur was written across a Dyln
Glenn poster, students, faculty, and staff
have been voicing their outrage in the hall-

thanks tothe administration here at Davidson
who has done such a great job of handling
this entire situation. a.

At my old high school, the administra-
tion would have tried to keep predicaments
such as this under the table. Here, Bobby
Vagt, Dean Shandley, Dean Jeffries and oth-
ers have worked very hard to not only make
sure that all the students knew the facts, but
to also make it clear that these acts and acts
like them are not tolerated here at Davidson.
Only time will tell if a committee chooses to

ways, on sidewalks and
via voice mail, class dis-
cussion, SGA meetings,
and most recently a fo-
rum. As appalling and as
uncalled-for as this oc-
currence was, I submit
that in retrospect we will
all agree that it was a
good thing for Davidson

Acts that hurt the feelings
and tear at the very soul of
the people that they are
directed towards should
violate something far more
potent or intimidating than
our Honor Code.

attach issues of overt rac-
ism to the Honor Code.
But even if they do not,
every student here at
Davidson should act as
though it is part of our
Honor Code. Acts that
hurt the feelings and tear
at the very soul of the
people that they are di-

College.
What remains to be seen is just how

effective these talks have been. I have seen.

and been involved in a number of student
forums and discussions in my eight years in
student government and very rarely have I

seen anything concrete come from any of .

them. It will be interesting to see just how
many changes this pivotal week in our
schoolis history will bring. I contend, how-
ever, that just by talking and discussing these
issues like the civilized young adults that we
are, we have all taken a.very meaningful and
essential first step. We all owe a great deal of

rected towards should

violate something far more potent or intimi-
dating than our Honor Code.

Moreover, let’s not leave it up to the

SGA or the BSC to tackle these issues by ©

themselves. No one can do it alone. If you
attend this institution, itis also your responsi-
bility to do all that you can to make it a better
place. I have much hope and enthusiasm for
the future and I see a lot of great things
happening at Davidson. But while we put
this hateful incident behind us, let us not put
the ideas that it has generated behind us as
well.

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Business Manager

‘Editor in Chief
SARAH E.-OGDEN

CADER HOWARD

Photo Editor
SCOTT REEDER SALLIE McMURRAY
j : ip- itor
News Editors Circulation Manager ERIN McKINLEY
LIZ NETHEISEL |
: EUGENIA LEATH
CARRIE ARTHUR : \
: Arts & Living Editors
. Advertising Managers MELISSA ANN de
ALISON KALETT eters 9 CASTRIQUE
. D JOHNSTON
BRIAN MAYERHOFER *V/D JOHNSTON "WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Copy Editors : :

News Layout Editors WHITNEY BLAKE 4 i ns aiors
IVAN MeCORMUGE a ef EVAN McCORMICK
EVAN McCORMICK JOHN DUNWOODY wot. : Laie

ELDER GWIN HANIE
parakeet DAVID ROSENBERG

Sports Layout Editors JUSTIN MONROE KRISTEN TAYLOR

BEN COVINGTON c¥ SCANLAN

CADER HOWARD =_— Arts& Living Layout Editors

Ai Darorers CATHERINE CORNWELL
BEN COVINGTON KAREN SWEENEY
AILEEN WATERS

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Intemet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

speaks to Chambers issue

Bobby Vagt
A Word from Our Leader

Last February, the Trustees adopted a
budget for fiscal 1998-99, on recommenda-
tion of campus budget committees involved
in the process. With tuition paying for less
than half of the cost of providing an
individual’s education, it was difficult for
the budget to both complete recent initiatives
(such as the availability of computer technol-
ogy in both the dorm room and the class-
room) and also continue fundamental activi-
ties at the same level. :

A part of that budget was a series of
expenditure reductions, of which 80 percent
was not personnel related. The largest single
target of opportunity was also the largest
single expenditure we make, for power; and
we are not a particularly prudent consumer
when it comes to utilization of this resource.
Therefore, the major effort to curb consump-
tion was deemed good public policy, as well
as an effective cost-saving device.

One piece of this energy-saving strat-
egy, discussed last spring at an SGA meeting,
was a decision to close academic buildings
from | to 6 a.m. When specific plans were
formulated this fall, considerable concern
was expressed by students. After two SGA
meetings where this was a subject for ques-
tion and debate, a “Lights Out” Committee
was formed by the SGA, which then pre-
sented me with suggestions. The result of
. that interchange was a decision to keep the

Union open 24 hours a day. With helpful
recommendations from Lights Out and mem-

._ bers ofthe Union Board, retrofitting of light~

ing (with floor lighting available until the
change of fixtures is accomplished), sup-

ERSTE

ger

plying of white boards, installation of e-mail
retrieval sites, etc., were new efforts under-
taken for the Union. In addition, one new 24-
hour computer lab was scheduled for Belk
Dormitory, with a second such lab to open in
the north basement of Chambers at the begin-
ning of the second semester.

As a result of this, beginning Monday
night, Nov. 9 (Tuesday at 1 a.m., actually),
the following will occur: 24-hour study space
will be available in the Library, DCPC, anew
computer lab in Belk, and the Union, includ-
ing the Cafe and the 900 Room (when not set
up for a major function). The Union will have
certain rooms designated quiet , others as
group study rooms. Academic buildings will
be closed to students from | to 6 a.m. During
the period preceding and including exams, all
buildings will be open 24 hours.

I would ask you to consider two addi-
tional points: This decision’ is not -about
“profits,” it is about choices; and the choices
are like a row of dominoes, each affecting the
next. One example is our current financial aid
policy, whereby we do not meet all of the
demonstrated need for the one-third of the
students enrolled here who need it, resulting
in hardship for many. It is a policy we are
committed to change. Decisions such as this
one about energy allow us to keep from
falling further behind in this important area.

This decision is not to everyone’s liking,
and I regret very much that this is so. I
apologize for any dislocation or discomfort it
may cause. It is my hope that we will find
ways to accommodate this change.

I am grateful for the dialogue with the
SGA, and its myriad suggestions which re-
sulted in important changes to the original
decision.

Challenge Awaits Campus

Ernest Jeffries
Dean of Minority Affairs

This incident of racial hatred was one
that really made many people including
myself take inventory.. I will agree that
racial hatred and intolerance has been and
still is everywhere including Davidson. But
as my mother’s generation “got used to it”
just as a mean of survival, we can not afford
to do the same. We are at the point as a
nation that we can do anything that the mind
can conceive. We can send people to space,
we can create human life in a test tube. We
can even create machines that afford us the
luxury of not having to think. But we can not
seem to get the racial thing right. When I
read about the Civil Rights Movement, I
almost feel cheated because I did not get the
opportunity to partake in the movement. It
is just awesome to think of the unity that was
displayed by African-American and White
Americans alike. People giving of them-
selves even when they knew that they may
not see the results of their struggle and that
it could ultimately cost them their lives. Iam
quite sure that it is their will as well as the
will of God that we who are alive and re-
‘main, pick up the banner and continue the
fight. I was very proud of how the students
at Davidson reacted to this incident. I saw
something special on last Wednesday night
in the SGA sponsored forum. I saw a large

| group of mostly students with a common

goal. That goal was to speak out and organize
against racial injustice. We heard many heart

- warming speeches and very well thought out

plans and ideas. But how do we go from idea

- to action? In my opinion, we must first under-

stand that any lager problem of racial preju-

dice is first an individual problem and that
racial understanding does not just appear, we
must create it. We must also constantly
assess ourselves and confront our own preju-
dices. It is very simple to let ourselves go
unchallenged by getting an acute case of the
“Not Me” syndrome. Even if we see prob-
lems an never address them we are part of the
problem. Dr. Martin Luther King jr. Once
said, “The ultimate measure of a man is not
where he stands in moments of comfort and
convenience, but where he stands at times of
challenge and controversy. The true neigh-
bor will risk his position, his prestige, and
even his life for the welfare of others.” How
many of us can measure up? How many of us

are ready and willing to be challenged and

changed? how many of us are ready to loose
some of our friends because we will no longer
stand for their racist attitudes? How many of
us are ready to risk our position or status to do
what is right? I would love to see these
questions not answered with words but with
deeds. It was wonderful to have 400 students
at the forum last week. Can we duplicate this
feat on’a regular basis in when it comes to
trying to discuss racial problems after the
campus has cooled down? I challenge each
member of this community to silence the
doubter. Keep the discussion of race in the
forefront. Keep asking questions like why
Davidson College has sucha poor representa-
tion of minorities specifically African-Ameri-
can Men onthe Faculty. Keep asking why do
we as an Institution not have a full day off on
the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Federal Holi-
day. Hold this institution and all members of
the community accountable when it comes
diversity. pratt cd |
