TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 1998

diences Insane

By Puituire STEWART

‘Tree of the Week: |
Bald Cypress, the Deciduous Conifer

By BriAN CAMPBELL

Staff Writer

“Pi” ennobles the art of film making. It’s a visionary
‘achievement; a work of art in motion, Its director, Darren
Aronofsky, is one to watch.

The world was amazed last year to hear the story of how
“Good Will Hunting” was written. The story behind “Pi” is
much more interesting, and plus, it makes you feel good.
Aronofsky had the idea and script for the movie but no
money. He asked 600 of his friends for $100 each and told
them that if the movie made money, he would give them $150
back for their investment. So, he made the movie for
$60,000. Itis shot in black and white film and lots of it is done
witha hand-held camera to save money. The movie has made
almost $2,000,000 and has won major film awards, making
Aronofsky a very sought-after director.

At the center of the film is Max Coen (Sean Gullette), a
mathematical genius who believes that there is order in
everything in the universe and all he needs to do is find the
key so he can predict the future. Naturally, he looks for a
pattern in the stock market. He goes crazy looking for
patterns, having major seizures and often suffering from
awful nosebleeds. The audience feels his pain during these
episodes, and upon each revelation he makes about the
patterns in nature, we too feel his excitement. Smoke flowing
in the air, the patterns on the back of a seashell, and a pattern
in Pi itself all appear on screen, and we feel as though we are
making connections and revelations along with him about
this almighty pattern that will solve the universe.

The pattern turns out to invove a 216-digit number that
seems to turn up everywhere, even in the Torah. Max’s only

. friend, a mathematics professor, warns him not to pursue the
pattern as it will cause him more physical illness; he needs to
take a break. Meanwhile, a Wall Street analysis firm wants
the secret from Max, and a Jewish man wants to figure out the
code of the Bible using the number. All of this comes to a
wonderful climax that I wouldn’t dare print here, but I
promise it will make you think harder than you have had to
in a long time.

So, one would ask how a thriller made for such a small
cost can be as good as the huge special-effects-laden projects
of the summer. The answeris in the editing and cinematograhy.
Every shot is done in high-contrast black and white while the
camera jolts around in a wonderful, almost surreal fashion.
The editing is fantastic and gives the movie a claustrophobic,
fast-paced and disturbing atmosphere — you can feel Max’s
paranoia and his madness. Every shot is original and great to
look at, thus making “Pi” superior to the many action movies
of the year.

“Pi” is one of the most intriguing movies that I have ever
seen. It’s one of those rare films that has two layers that work
equally well. On the surface is an exciting and satisfying
thriller; underneath is a philosohical argument about nature,
chaos, and God, complete with symbolism and metaphor.
One leaves the movie breathless and wanting to see it again,
to catch everything he might have missed the first time. “Pi”
is playing exclusively at the Manor Theater in Charlotte, a
great theater that only shows small films that most places are
afraid to show because of their lack of popularity. Go watch
this great movie and help keep the one theater that dares to
show these tyes of films alive.

Staff Writer

This week we feature three closely related trees of the Taxodium or Redwood family: the Common Bald Cypress (Taxodium distichum),

Pond Bald Cypress (Taxodium ascendens), and Montezuma Bald Cypress (Taxodium mucronatum). Youcan find several of these trees between
the Elm Row music practice rooms and Little Dormitory, with another tree near Duke. Right now, the leaves are a soft green, but watch over
the next months as they turn a bronzed red-gold and fall for the winter, creating a rusty carpet around the trunk. That’s right, while almost all
conifers (pines, firs, etc.) are evergreens, the Bald Cypress is deciduous, shedding its needles for winter. In the spring, the needles will return
a bright chartreuse with the rounded cones sprinkled like ornaments throughout the tree.
All three varieties found on our campus thrive in warm, aquatic habitats, growing to over a hundred feet in the swamps and wetlands of
Florida and further south, but they are versatile enough to handle even dry soil and cold climates as far north as Ohio. In wet soils, the Bald
Cypress grows its famous “knees,” knobby, bark-covered growths, from 1-3 feet high, that appear to be aboveground roots. These are also called
pheumatophores, since scientists first believed they supplied air to the submerged roots, a theory abandoned when it was shown that their
removal did not hurt the health of the tree. Now, experts agree Bald Cypress knees are primarily anchoring devices for trees in soft mud, which
is why the examples on our campus can stand even without knees. Notice instead how the base of these trees flares out more than most, and
the branches grow very close to the ground.

The Bald Cypress is sometimes called “wood eternal” because the heart of the tree is so resistant to decay. Well adapted to wet habitats,
this wood sheds water easily and will not rot. For hundreds of years, it has been used in boats, docks, and bridges.

The Montezuma Bald Cypress, three of which are in front of the Guest House, is the national tree of Mexico. These hold their gold fall
foliage well into December, much later than their nore northern siblings. The Big Tree of Tule, near Oaxaca, Mexico, is a famous giant.
Apparently formed by the fusion of three trees, it has a trunk circumference of 112 feet and a height of 141 feet. Chapultepec Park, in Mexico
City, boasts some of the world’s oldest and tallest Montezuma Bald Cypress, reaching 165 feet. These veterans are among the oldest cultivated
trees in the New World, perhaps exceeding 600 years!

Most of the Bald Cypresses in the college arboretum were first planted at the lake campus in 1986, and then transplanted to their current
locations in 1988. This week, on your way back from the Post Office, find a Common Bald Cypress across the path from the historic well. Find
the Montezuma and Pond varieties around the traffic gate outside Little. It is hard not to touch the soft needles and scaly, peeling bark. Stop
and celebrate these trees’ tenth year on our campus, and watch their cycle of transformation through the seasons.

Special thanks to Joy McCain for her research and assistance.

Fall Film Festival makes good

By RYLAND WALLER

Staff Writer

With only three excellent films left in its series for the
month of September, this year’s Out of this World Fall Film
Festival has gotten off to a great start. Beginning on August
26th with the 1997 Best Screenplay Winner “Good Will
Hunting,” the entire film festival includes twenty both recent
and older movies that are a great diversion for an otherwise
routine day. One highlight of the festival so far was the free
showing of “Ghostbusters” on Belk Lawn last Sunday where
a big screen with sound was set up, tempting anyone to get up
from the books for some classic entertainment. Another more
current favorite was “Men In Black” which played on Friday,
August 4th, starring those hysterical galaxy defenders, Will
Smith and Tommy Lee Jones.

The next movie in the film festival will be “The Sweet
Hereafter,” the Grand Prize Winner of the 1997 Cannes Film
Festival, showing on Wednesday, September 9th and 1 1th. In
this chilly drama, Ian Holm stars as a big-city lawyer who
arrives in an isolated British Columbia town following a
tragic school bus crash, hoping to profit by urging the
shattered townspeople to file a class-action suit. The film,
which is based on the novel by Russell Banks, also stars

Sarah Polley and is directed by Atom Egoyan.

Next week, Steven Spielberg’s masterpiece, “Schindler’s
List” will be playing on the 16th and the 18th. This moving
and educational film features the story of gne-man’s effort to
save one thousand Polish Jews from the Third Reich concen-
tration camp at Auschwitz: Starring Liam Neeson and Ben
Kingsley, “Schindler’s List” graphically depicts this real-life
horror in a horribly sad, yet uplifting story.

The final movie playing in the month of September will
be “The Blues Brothers,” playing Wednesday, Sept. 23rd and
Thursday, Sept..24th-in_the 900 Room. Based- onthe
Saturday Night Live regulars from the mid to late 1970's,
director John Landis’s comedy “The Blues Brothers” stars
John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd who are on a mission to save
an orphanage. Featuring music by Aretha Franklin, Ray
Charles, and James Brown, this cult classic is a best betif
you’re looking for laughs.

Next month, the Union will be showing ten more
outstanding films, including “Soul Food,” “Rocky Horror
Picture Show,” and “Scream 2” among others. So whether
you want to put down your books and be frightened, moved,
or you just want to laugh, the Fall Film Festival‘has some-
thing for everyone.

Pee h f

Coffeehouse. Because you 1.) sleptthrough
breakfast, and 2.) have change to burn.

Genre Night: Lyrics. For more

Coffeehouse. A great excuse to

Discover Davidson.

Prospective stu- Jumpin’ Java.

Wear your coffee-

Shazzam! 8;15 a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900
Room. :

Art Studio Faculty Exhibit. All week long.
10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Visual Arts
Center.

Turner House meals. We're still homeless!
5:00 - 7:00 p.m. at the Outpost.

Jumpin’ Java. Clean some mugs. 8:00
p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Environmental Action. Bring some ozone.
9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Career Workshop. Find jobs other
than policeman, firefighter, astronaut,
and president. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in the
Morrison Room. :
Meditation. Ommmmmm. 4:30 - 5:30
p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Dr. Abraham Verghese. Speaker. 6:30
- 7:30 p.m. at Love Auditorium.

“The Sweet Hereafter.” Killer
soundtrack. 9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

information, contact Amanda Lanier.
10:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Latin Dancing Workshop. Baile!
(The Dow Jones needs you!) 7:00 -
9:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

Nothing else.
pening.

Nothing else is hap-

hang out in the 900 Room. 8:15 -
11:15 a.m.

Drum Workshop. Learn how to
play the drums. 4:30 - 5:30 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

dents crawl about campus, discovering
Davidson. All day long, everywhere.

Olatunji and His Drums. A definite
must-see. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in Love
Auditorium.

3rd Little Semi-formal. Don’t these

“guys ever give up? 9:00 - 11:00 p.m. in

the Home Room. ;
“The Sweet Hereafter.” See it again.
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

50s Dance. Shake, rattle, ‘n’ roll. 8:00
p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Vail Commons,
“Peach Melba’s Worst Nightmare.”

’ For a night of caffeine and unbridled angst,

_ 8:45 - 10:30 p.m. at the Home Room.

drinkin’ clothes, shoes in which you can
get wet, and a big smile. 7:30 p.m. -
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Amnesty International. All students
welcome! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the
Morrison Room.

Speaker. Speaker speaks. 7:00 - 9:00
p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Jumpin’ Java, featuring poetry reading.

it's 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.
Pacifica String Quartet. Talented
musicians invade Hodson Hall. 8:00 - 9:30
p.m. '
Reach Out meeting. Reach out, man.

