Mendoza voices
human rights
concerns for
Guatemala

* By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, October 27, Guatemalan Justo Mendoza spoke in the Morrison
Room about Mayan culture in Guatemala, human rights abuses, and CONIC, the
National Indigenous and Peasant Coordination. For Mendoza, Davidson College
was another stop on his month long tour of the United States, where he has been
drawing attention to human rights abuses and social justice issues in Guatemala.

Contrary to what the Guatemalan government may report, Mendoza does not
believe the peace accords signed in 1996 to end the Guatemala’ s 36 year civil war
have ended the human rights abuses in the region. He points to the controversial
murder of Bishop Juan Gerardi Conedera in April, 1998. Gerardi, a leader of the
human rights campaign in Guatemala, was bludgeoned to death two days after he
oversaw the release of a report accusing the military of rampant human rights
abuses against the leftist guerrilla forces during the civil war. According to
Mendoza, the lack of a conclusive investigation into Gerardi’s murder is a clue to
the current situation in Guatemala and is a threat to the peace process in the area.
“We have to tell the truth to all the people,” said Mendoza through interpreter
Professor Kemp, “but a lot of people don’t want to hear the truth.” In Mendoza’s
eyes the peace accords are not being enforced properly, and there has been no end
to human rights abuses such as murders and kidnappings, that existed prior to the
signing.

Mendoza’s life in Northwest Guatemala has not been untouched by the
guerilla warfare that has existed in Guatemala since 1960. With only two years of
formaledication, Mendoza left school to work on the coffee and sugar plantations

that employ Guatemalan peasants. After losing his father and older brother during °

the military’s scorched earth counter insurgency campaigns, Mendoza spent over
6 years in hiding. In 1992, he helped found CONIC, -which is presently made up
of 6 Mayan ethnic groups as well as the Ladinos of the population. The principle
objective of CONIC is to organize native peoples and “peasants to struggle to seek
solutions to our economic, social, political and cultural needs.” CONIC also seeks
to recover and preserve Mayan history, culture and spirituality. CONIC has
developed into an organization that lists respect for human rights, the achievement
of “real peace with social justice,” self-determination for the Mayan People, the
protection of the earth for the people, and the equal treatment of women among
many other demands.

Despite op-
position and death
threats, CONIC
has achieved sev-
eral successes in
its short ‘life. In
accordance with

Gerardi, a leader of the human rights
campaign in Guatemala, was
bludgeoned to death two days after he

the goalsoftheor- oversaw the release of a report accusing
ganization and the military of rampant j
without the help of ry f A human rights

abuses against the leftist guerrilla forces

the Guatemalan . Fala
during the civil war.

government,
CONIC has been
able to regain land
for the commu-
nity, build a small school, employ a teacher, undertake road building projects, and
provide drinkable water for the community. CONIC has also begun a program of
organic agriculture that will benefit the communities. CONIC strives for the
protection of “Mother Earth” so that she will “produce for everyone’s benefit.”
“The environment and its protection,” said Mendoza, “is part of rescuing our
Mayan culture.”

Following his speech, Mendoza fielded questions from the audience. When
asked who he feared the most, the army or the guerrillas, Mendoza responded that
the guerrillas were fighting for a cause, to change the status of poor people. On the
other hand, the army defended the rich, and Mendoza was more familiar with the
army’s torturing methods. Mendoza also answered questions about the guerrillas
political goals, including the implementation of democracy and the enforcement
of the peace accords. For Mendoza, the greatest world-wide problem that hinders
peace and conformity. Speaking about the infamous School of the Americas,
Mendoza said, “it should not exist.”

Justo Mendoza’s discussion was sponsored by Amnesty International, the
Spanish Department , and Dean Rusk. .

#7 Fo SPATS a Ts
ead

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 1998

Student investors group re-

ceives endowment of $200,000

By Asutey E. Kinc
News Editor

Starting as the idea of two Davidson College sopho-
mores last spring, the Davidson investment group has grown
into an organization of 32 members which the college board
of trustees has recently decided to give an endowment of
$200,000. “It’s a group with the goal of educating students
about investing through real world experience,”’said Peter
Clark ‘01. The founders and managers of the group, both
Clark and his partner David Johnston’01 are excited about
bringing Davidson College a taste of Wall Street.

Collaborating for the past half year to: bring their
conception of a college investment group into being, Clark
and Johnston have finally realized their aspirations. Begin-
ning by speaking with Robert Norfleet of the College Office
of Finance, they presented their preliminary ideas to the
Board of Trustees at the end of the semester last year. Since
the trustees liked their plan, Clark and Johnston then worked
together to formulate a more formal proposal which the
trustees approved this fall.

Armed with $200,000, the investment group has en-
deavored both to attract new members and to organize its
current members. Posting fliers in Chambers and sending out
e-mails, the group has interested some potential investors,
and they have organized themselves in a structured fashion.

“We have divided the universe of stocks into five
sectors,” Clark explained. For each of these five sectors, there
is a corresponding group of members of the investment group
who will study them. Each of these groups, according to
Clark, “is responsible for proposing ideas, researching them,
and providing a portion of the folio. Once they come up with
a stock they like, they propose it to the club as a whole for

voting.”

Through this democratic process, the investment group
decides which stocks to include in their portfolio and which
stocks to leave out. Comprised of eight people, an executive
committee also ascertains the allocation of money to each of
the sectors. Six of the members of the executive board are
students while the other two, Burtin Hudson and Clark Ross,
act as adult advisors for the beginning investors.

After they have invested the money, Clark and Johnston
know that if their group does not succeed, the college is
entitled to take back the money it has given them. Explaining
that they will be treated as any other investor to whom the
school decides to give its money, Johnston said, “We’re
governed by all the rules of the traditional private sector.”
Both Clark and Johnston hope, however, that any profits the
investment group makes will remain in its account for later
investments.

In the future, Clark and Johnston explained that they are
going to attempt to bring different college alumni and other
investors to the college to deliver speeches about investing
carefully and successfully in the business world. They also
wish to expand the number of students involved in their
group. “Membership is open to all students,” said Johnston,
urging anyone who is interested to contact either him or
Clark. ’

Emphasizing the uniqueness of this group on Davidson’ s
campus, Clark said in closing, “To our knowledge, this is one
of the first clubs of this sort in the country for a purely liberal
arts school. It shows how the trustees are putting a lot of trust
and responsibility in the students in general.”

Through this unusual opportunity, the students of
Davidson College can attempt to understand the inner work-
ings of the stock market.

Davidson Professor Helps Tell
History of African-American
_ _Moravians

RACHEL COCKRILL

College Relations
Janet Shannon, associate professor and chair of the Sociology department at Davidson College, is working with a
colleague from Northeastern University to develop an interpretive program which depicts the history of African-Americans

in Old Salem.

The living history exhibit she is creating with Robert L. Hall, associate professor and chair of African-American Studies
at Northeastern, will focus on Afro-Moravians and will consider slavery, religion, and community. St. Phillips Moravian
Church in Old Salem is the only Afro-American Moravian Church in the United States, and its history is an example of aunique

aspect of race relations in the pre-Civil War South.

Although African-Americans were Moravians before the 1820s, it was not until 1822 that a separate place of worship

was considered for the black community, free and slave, Prior to the building of the original log church, the Afro-Moravian
community had no alternative but to worship with the whites at the Home Moravian Church. However, with the strong support
of the Female Mission Society, a log structure was completed in 1822 for the congregation referred to as the “colored
congregation” and later the “Negro congregation.” (That log building has been long-destroyed, but Shannon says Old Salem
plans to reconstruct it.)

During the years before Emancipation, a large portion of the slaves in Winston-Salem lived at Happy Hill, a plantation
directly across Salem Creek from the log church. The log church quickly became a focal point of the African-American
community, not only as a place of worship for AfroMoravians, but also as a meeting place for non-Moravians blacks.

With the approach of the Civil War in 1861, the log structure was replaced with a new brick sanctuary just yards away,
a structure which was built partially over the old church’s cemetery (an area now being excavated). It was not until 1913,
almost a century after the congregation formed, that the Afro-Moravian church in Winston-Salem adopted the name “St.
Philips.” .

The area of Happy Hill continues to be an African-American community, but St. Philips has moved to Bon Aire Avenue,
many blocks away from its original location on South Church Street in Old Salem.

Shannon is not just looking at the history of St. Philips’ various structures, but is studying the significance of this special
church within the community of Winston-Salem, past and present. She said the church continues to meet the needs of the
African-American community in Winston-Salem. ;

Colleagues since the summer of 1986, Shannon and Hall gathered much of their information from the 150-year-old
minutes of the Female Mission Society, as well as archaeological evidence, municipal records and the records of the church
itself. Shannon says she and Hall have completed a large portion of their task, but the opening date of their exhibition has

Davidson in

Summer 1999

An informational meeting for the Davidson in Washington Program will be held on THURSDAY,
NOVEMBER 12 at 4:00 p.m. in Chambers 228. Students interested in learning more about the program
should attend. Applications for the program will be available at the meeting. If you have questions about
the program, or are unable to attend the informational meeting, please contact Professor Kazee of the
Department of Political Science by phone (ext. 2282) or email (tokazee @ davidson.edu).

not yet been determined.
GOOD

Washington WEEKLY

processing mail for
national company! Free

supplies, postage! No sell-

ing! Bonuses! Start imme-

diately! Genuine opportu-
nity!

- __._.
em e ll i ee ee nn

