Michigan delivers knock out punch

By Micnaet J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

ATLANTA — The team that
talked the talk walked the walk.

After roaring through the inaugu-
ral Big Ten tournament, Michigan
space-
eater
Robert
Traylor
boldly
predicted a Final Four berth for the
Wolverines, touted by the media as a
national title contender.

There was little argument from
Davidson Friday night, as Michigan
began its self-proclaimed road to the
Final Four by dispatching the Wildcats
80-61 in the first round of the NCAA
tournament in front of 17,818 fans at
the Georgia Dome.

As it turned out, the Wolverines
encountered a large pothole Sunday
afternoon, losing to UCLA.

But there were no such problems
for the Maize and Blue against
Davidson, as the Wolverines used an
unexpectedly potent outside attack —
as opposed to their much bally-hooed
frontcourt — to claim their first NCAA
tourney victory since 1994.

Guard Robbie Reid hit three three-
pointers in a 20-2 run early in the first

half, a spurt that gave Michigan a cush-

ion it would never really relinquish.
Reid; who hit a couple more threes in
the second half when Davidson was
threatening to make the game interest-
ing, finished with 17 points on 5-for-8
marksmanship from beyond the arc.

“I felt really good,” Reid said in
the postgame press conference: “I get a
lot of really good looks because of the
respect Robert and Maceo (Baston) get
inside.”

“He’s a very good player,” said
Wildcat point guard Billy Armstrong,
who matched his career high with 13
points. “He hit two threes in the second
half that really took a lot out of us.”

Backcourt mate Louis Bullock tal-
lied a game-high 20 points, hitting 4-of-
5 from long distance.

Overall, the Wolverines shot a re-
markable 53.1 percent from the floor
and an even 50 percent from three-point
territory. Davidson, on the other hand,
converted just 35.4 percent of its field
goal opportunities and 31.8 percent from
three.

Thanks to superlative shooting and
guard play, the Wolverines jumped out
to a 27-9 less than 10 minutes into the
first period and entered intermission
with a comfortable 37-25 advantage.

Although the Wildcats sliced the
Michigan bulge to 39-30 in the opening

minutes of the second half, the Wolver-
ines had an adequate counterattack for
every mini-run by Davidson.

In the game’s final 1,5 minutes, the
Michigan lead never dipped below 12.

Traylor had a relatively quiet 14
points and 11 rebounds in just 25 min-
utes and athletic forward Jerod Ward
added 12 points.

For Davidson, Davor Halbauer led
the way, hitting 4-of-6 three-pointers
enroute to a squad-best 14 points. Mark
Donnelly and Armstrong, senior guards
playing their final game in red and black,
each scored 13 points.

Armstrong logged 28 minutes
while injured starter Ali Ton played
only 12.

Davidson also outrebounded the
Wolverines 39-35, a statistic that didn’t
surprise Michigan coach Brian Ellerbe.

“They’re a well-coached team,”
he said. “Watch them on tape. They do
alot of really good things. But we were
able to negate a few of those things.”

Despite the disheartening loss, said
coach Bob McKillop, “This is a first
class event. It’s a terrific opportunity
for a student-athlete to have. [hope like
heck we become used to this experi- °
ence.”

Added Donnelly: “For schools like
us, this is like the Final Four. We lost to
a tremendous team.”

@ After receiving SoCon Tournament MVP honors, Ben Ebong went up against Robert
Traylor, who outweighs every member of the Davidson front-court by at least sixty pounds.

Anna Judy

Baseball wins one of three in offensive display at Furman

By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

This weekend, the Davidson baseball team
ended its recent power outage. Unfortunately, the
results generally
remained the
same. At Furman,
the Wildcats
broke a ten game
losing streak, but
still dropped two
of three against
the Paladins.
Davidson played
wellat times, win-
ning the second
game of
Saturday’s doubleheader 11-7. In the first game,
they made a valiant comeback, only to lose 10-9 in
the bottom of the ninth. ©

Whereas Davidson had struggled offensively
in games against William & Mary, Auburn, and
Ohio University, run production was not a prob-
lem against Furman. This series, pitching was the
problem more often than not.

In the opener on Saturday, Furman jumped
out to a 1-0 lead in the bottom of the second.
Davidson took the lead as Mike DeSimone batted
home Ben Brown with two outs in the third.
Firstbaseman Stewart Sloan doubled, and
DeSimone scored. The score remained the same
until the bottom of the fourth. After Furman
designated hitter Justin Maderer singled,
centerfielder Jody Wade homered to centerfield

off Davidson starter Ryan Stroker.

After Davidson left two men on base in the
top of the fifth, Furman scored four more in the
bottom of the inning. Rightfielder Chris Valdes
hit a three-run homerun, while Maderer hit a solo
shot. While Davidson managed one run in the
sixth, the Cats trailed 9-3 going into the seventh.

With one out inthe seventh, DeSimone greeted
new pitcher William Rowland with a homer to
center. The next inning, Davidson hit its second
homerun of the game when pinch hitter Dom
Talvacchio homered for the first time this season.

Davidson trailed 9-5 as Furman brought in
Alex Vogel to close the game. The Wildcats
shocked Furman by having both Brian Joyce and
Luke Goodwin bunt for basehits. DeSimone loaded
the bases as he reached first on an error by short-
stop Adam Etherington. On a 2-2 count, Sloan
doubled to the gap between left and center. The
bases were cleared, and Davidson trailed by a run.
On the afternoon, Sloan now had two doubles and
four RBIs. Sloan moved to third on an error by the
Furman firstbaseman. He scored on a wild pitch
by Brad Rollins. Rollins had come in relief of
Vogel. He had managed to get only one out. The
inning was not over as pinch hitter Marshall Tyler
singled Tom McGintee (pinch running for Ryan
Conaster) to third. Unfortunately, Davidson
couldn’t advance either runner.

The game went to the bottom of the ninth tied
at nine. Davidson’s comeback would end up
falling short. Relief pitcher Fritz Porter had retired
all of the batters he faced until pinch hitter David
Noyce came to the plate with two outs. With a
swing of the bat, Noyce homered to leftfield.

Furman had stolen a game which Davidson had
fought so hard to win.

Davidson’s strength in the series was defi-
nitely its hitting. In the first game on Saturday,
Ben Brown went 4 for 6. Mike DeSimone went 2
for 5, with a homerun and two RBIs. Stewart
Sloan doubled twice and had four RBIs.

Davidson finally broke through with a win in
the second game on Saturday. They got out to a
quick 3-0 lead when sophomore secondbaseman
Drew Williams homered for the first time in his
collegiate career. The homeruns kept on coming
for the Cats in the top of the third. With one out,
Luke Goodwin homered to leftfield. The next
hitter, Mike DeSimone, homered to leftfield on a
2-1 count. This was DeSimone’s fourth homerun
of the year. After Jeremiah Parvin singled home
Sloan, Furman took out starter Toby David.:

Furman came back in the bottom of the third
scoring five runs on six hits. Centerfielder Jody

Wade hit his third homerun of the year. In the top .

of the fourth, Davidson reclaimed the lead for
good. Drew Williams opened things up by earning
a walk, Then Williams advanced to second on a
Brian Joyce single. Then on a fielder’s choice,
Luke Goodwin reached first base. While Will-
iams was out, Joyce ended up scoring on an error
by Furman thirdbaseman Dan Martz. Goodwin
advanced to third, and later scored ona wild pitch.

Leading 8-7, Brian Joyce hit his first homerun
of the year to start the seventh inning. With two
outs, Sloan kept the inning alive with a single.
Then Ryan Conaster came to the plate. On the first
pitch from William Rowland, Conaster hit a two-
run homer.

Mike DeSimone struck out the side in the
bottom of the seventh to earn his first save of the
season. Jeff Case pitched a strong four and a third
innings of work to win his first game of the year.

Furman beat Davidson at its own game on
Sunday as it hit five homeruns in route to a 15-7
victory. Wildcat starter Wes Self was rocked early
as he surrendered eightruns in just three and a third
innings. After scoring three in the first, Furman
increased their lead to 5-2 with a homerun by
firstbaseman Jim Morrill. Morrill had a monster
game for the Paladins as he hit three homeruns. He
went 4 for 5 with six RBIs on the day. Morrill
destroyed the Wildcats as he homered in the piv-
otal fourth and sixth innings, in which Furman
scored four and five runs respectively.

Davidson scored its first two runs in: the
second when Ryan Conaster hit his third homerun
of the season, In the fifth, rightfielder Jeremiah
Parvin singled with one out. He was followed by
catcher Kurt Davis who also singled, advancing
Parvin to third. Parvin then scored on a Drew
Williams sacrifice fly.

Both Parvin and Davis had strong games. In
the eight, Parvin singled again. This time Davis
followed him with a homerun. In the ninth,
Davidson scored again. Both Goodwin and
DeSimone singled to lead off the inning. Then
freshman Matt Berry, pinch hitting for Sloan,
doubled both runners home. The final score was
15-7.

Davidson is currently 1-2 inconference play,
and their road does not get easier. This week the
play ACC power N.C. State and Southern Confer-
ence favorite, Western Carolina.

Baseball

Furman 10, Wildcats 9
Wildcats 11, Furman 7
Furman 15, Wildcats 7

Golf

Fifth at Max Ward Invitational
Lacrosse

Richmond 15, Wildcats 9

Duke 17, Wildcats 3

Men’s Tennis

Wildcats 4, James Madison 3
Virginia 5, Wildcats 2
Wildcats 5, Richmond 2

Women’s Tennis

Georgia Southern 6, Wildcats 3

| College of Charleston 6, Wildcats 3

RyAn CONATSER
Baseball ¢ Sr. © 3rd base

{ Conatser, who has been
1 injured for part of the season, hit
}_ his first collegiate home run over
spring break against the Auburn
Tigers. Against Furman this past
weekend, Conatser trippled his
career total by hitting two more
~homeruns for four RBIs.

Baseball
Wednesday @ NC State (7:00)
ibleheader Saturday vs. Western Carolina (12:00)
Sunday vs. Western Carolina (1:00)
Tuesday @ UNC-Asheville 1G! 00)
Men’s & Women’s Track and Field
Sait” ‘Saturday, Wake Forest Invitational

re nel 2 Bee laa East Carolina Invitational

ennis STA N llegiato Championship
Neoker vs. Remiicbion pain c: 30)

Women’s Tennis

Saturday vs, ian State (TBA)

Tuesday vs. UNC-Greensboro (2:00)

Lacrosse

Saturday vs, jachian State (TBA)

Tuesday vs, Greensboro

Men’s Baseball vs. Western Carolina

Doubleheader Saturday * 12:00
Sunday ¢ 1:00
After coming off-of a ten game losing streak
at Furman this weekend, the Wildcats continue
with their tough Southern Conference schedule
against the Catamounts in Wildcat. Park this
coming weekend. s

