After thorough consideratipn of Senate discussions and constituent feedback, the Student Government Association’s

Student Advisory Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services, has passed the following resolution regarding the Union
Cafe. The resolution is pending approval by the Senate body on Tuesday, September 8 at 9:00pm in the Union Conference

College

Submitted by:

‘Auxiliary Service division;

Room. We welcome your attendance at this meeting.

f

The Student Government Association and the Student Advisory Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services of Davidson

Foster Haseldon, Class of 2000 President, chairman of Student Advisory
Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services
Ann Harriot Fisher, Student Government Association President

Whereas the Union Cafe is a business designed to serve primarily the students of Davidson College, as well as faculty,
staff, and other members of the community;

Whereas the Student Government Association of Davidson College recognizes that the Union Cafe is a business entity
charged with reaching a yearly net income;

Whereas the Union Cafe is under the Auxiliary Service department of Davidson College;

Whereas the Auxiliary Services of Davidson College released no information to students, neither during Spring Semester
1998 nor Summer 1998, of the changes planned for the Union Cafe for Fall Semester 1998;

Therefore, be it resolved that the Student Government Association and the Student Advisory Council to the Director of
Auxiliary Services of Davidson College request the following changes to the Union Cafe:

That a variety of refrigerated bottled carbonated drinks be made available for purchase;

That the Union Cafe extend its hours to those that coincide with the opening and closing of the Davidson College Union
or follow the schedule as stated in Red Book V;

That student employment opportunities in the Union Cafe be increased or comparable employment is offered in the

that, in the attempt to increase revenue, the prices in the Union remain the same;

Be it further resolved that the Student Government Association and Student Advisory Council to the Director of Auxiliary
Services of Davidson College charge the Polling and Response Committee to an in-depth and ongoing investigation
regarding specific items desired by a majority of students and not currently carried by the Union Cafe.

Davidson receives $40,000 biology grant

COLLEGE RELATIONS
Press Release

A grant to Davidson College from
the National Science Foundation will
help purchase equipment that will al-
low the biology department to unify its
curriculum throughout various aspects
of the discipline.

The $37,846 grant from the NSF’s

Instrumentation and Laboratory Im-
provement program will be matched by
the college, providing funds to pur-
chase 22-phase- contrast microscopes
and associated equipment for a labora-
tory in the college’s new Watson Life
Sciences Building.

Phase contrast microscopes allow
students to study cell structures without
staining and killing the cells or micro-
organisms. Traditional microscopes
require the researchers to stain the cells
being viewed in order to detect the
organelles, killing the specimen in the
process.

Five of the microscopes will also
be equipped with cameras that allow
students to transfer the images they

view to one of the lab’s five new
Macintosh G-3 computers (also to be
purchased with the grant funds). Stu-
dents can then use the computers to
measure the structures and interpret the
data.

Assistant Professor Malcolm
Campbell, author of the grant proposal,
explained that the new instruments will
also allow the department to unify its
curriculum around the isocitrate dehy-
drogenase (IDH) enzyme by using it as
a “model enzyme” in all'cell and mo-
lecular-course laboratories. ee

Students will be introduced to IDH
in the department’ s introductory course,
Biology 111. They will learn to mea-
sure IDH activity, as well as formulate
and test hypotheses, and present their
results in oral and written formats.

In more advanced classes such as
Molecular Biology, students will un-
dertake one large research project in-
volving the cloning of a yeast IDH
gene. In Genetics classes, students will
examine mutant IDH genes in fruit flies.
By mating the mutant flies, Genetics
students will be able to look at inherit-

ance patterns. Students in Develop-
mental Biology will perform indepen-
dent research experiments on IDH in
small groups. They will study the em-
bryos of simple organism such as flies
orchickens to discover when and where
the IDH gene is expressed and in what
quantity.

By unifying the curriculum in such

a way, “students will see how different.

approaches to IDH can extract different
kinds of information,” Campbell

.said.“Students will better understand

the-synergy between different biology
disciplines,” he said.

Further explanation of the IDH
enzyme is available at the department’s
web site: www. bio. davidson.edu/biol-
ogy/IDH. html.

Campbell said students will learn
more overall about biology and scien-
tific method through this approach be-
cause each succeeding class they take
will build on what they learned in their
previous laboratory work with IDH.

“Students will better understand the syn-

ergy between different biology disci-
plines,” he said.

Ada Jenkins provides
opportunity for service

By ArnsLey HINES
Staff Writer

A week ago, during freshman orientation, over 600 students discovered new
ways to involve themselves in the Davidson community. For over 150 students,
their involvement centered around the Ada Jenkins Center. These freshmen and
their leaders served the community by cleaning rooms, gardening, painting walls,
hanging blinds and refinishing bikes. Many freshmen also toured the community
collecting cans for the Loaves and Fishes food supply at the Center. ,

Rallying this group of freshmen was Catherine Turner, a Davidson alumna
and former community service coordinator of the college. Turner now serves as
assistant director of the Ada Jenkins Center. Turner’s dedication to community
service and her lasting impact on the college became evident last spring, when
Davidson’s new women’s eating house, Turner House, was named in her honor.
At the freshman orientation service project, Turner recounted a brief history of the
Ada Jenkins Center to the freshmen volunteers: Before segregation, the Center was
aschool for African-American students. After the de-segregation of schools, it was
renamed for the beloved teacher, Ada Jenkins, who taught in the school. For a few
years, it was used as a’community center, but later fell into disrepair. In the past
ten years, however, it has been refurbished and repaired. It is currently used as an
after school center for children in the community as well as a meeting place for all
sorts of groups and organizations.

Sophomore Bryan Deaton coordinates the Ada Jenkins tutoring program with
Davidson College. The students being tutored come from Davidson Elementary
and are recognized by their teachers as needing special academic attention.
Volunteers meet with them to go over homework from 3 o’clock until 5 o’clock on
Monday through Thursday. Deaton, who worked with the tutoring program during
his freshman year and over the summer, loves the program and is eager to recruit
new and old volunteers: “I think what they (the students) benefit most from is
having that role-model relationship with the tutors.” He is hoping that volunteers
will tutor twice-a-week to encourage close relationships between students and
tutors with consistency.

On Fridays, when Deaton and his students are finished with their work, Ada
Recreation and Ada Art are ready to provide ample opportunities for fun. The kids
are broken into two halves, alternating between the two programs. Ada Recreation,
run by sophomore Susan Edwards and junior Brian Weiler, gives kids a chance to
let loose and play after a busy week. Edwards said, “These little kids have so much
energy that can be put to good use, and it rubs off on you, too!” She and Weiler are
hoping to venture on off-campus outings at least once a month. And, they are eager
for volunteers. .

Ada Art is another source of fun and learning for the same students. Melissa
Otis and Chris Rackley run this program. They ask their volunteers to be creative
by planning art projects for small groups of kids. Otis said, “They are very critical
of each other’s art. ..What we’ve been trying to do is show them there’s lots of
different types of expression in art and themselves.” By exposing the students to
museums and their own talent, they hope that the volunteers can try to open the eyes
of these students to the wonders of art.

The Ada Jenkins Center is located about a half-mile from Davidson.and is
filled with opportunities for students to involve themselves with the community.
For more information, please call Bryan Deaton at 6374 for Ada Tutoring, Susan
Edwards at 6051 or Brian Weiler at 6486 for Ada Recreation, and Melissa Otis at
6644 or Chris Rackley at 6503 for Ada Art.

Swallow receives grant
for research abroad |

COLLEGE RELATIONS
Press Release

“T had considered travelling to Israel
right out of graduate school, but decided
that it was a better choice to. come to

John Swallow, Kimbrough Assis-
tant Professor of Mathematics at
Davidson College; has been awarded a
National Science Foundation Interna-
tional Research Fellow Award.

The $42,000 grant will supple-
ment Swallow’s salary while he is on
sabbatical next year, and defray travel
expenses for research he will conduct at
the Israel Institute of Technology (also
known as the “Technion’’) about Galois
Theory, the study of patterns found in
roots of polynomials. :

This particular NSF grant program
is intended to encourage younger math
and science scholars in the early years
of their. careers to perform research
abroad and science scholars in the early
years of their careers to perform re-
search abroad and establish productive,
long-term contacts within foreign intel-
lectual communities.

Located in Haifa, the Technion
was founded in 1924 and is Israel’s

- oldest university. Its math institute
research programs attract leading math-
ematicians fromacross the globe. Swal-
low looks forward to collaborating with
the Technion’s Dr. Jack Sonn, who is

_ alsoexamining the Galois Theory. “I’ve

sought the chance to work with Dr.

_ Sonn for several years,” said Swallow.

Davidson to begin a teaching career.”

Swallow isa 1989 summa cum laude
graduate of the University of the South
who earned his Ph.D. from Yale in 1994.
Heis acknowledged as one of the nation’s
leading scholars in Galois Theory. In
1995, he received his first National Sci-
ence Foundation grant for Galois Theory
research.

He_was awarded a supplemental
grant from the NSF recently to fund two
undergraduate research assistants who
are working with him on Galois Theory
problems this summer.

Swallow has also produced numer-
ous scholarly articles and reviews and
given research talks in both the United
States and Europe in Galois Theory. He
expects to complete two additional pa-
pers this year while in Israel.

‘Swallow said he has mixed feel-
ings about leaving the classroom for the
year. Having taught throughout gradu-
ate school and now for four years at
Davidson, Swallow said he will miss the
satisfaction of helping students, but looks
forward toconducting intensive research.
“there are many questions in’ my. field

' that I can’tyet answer, and I’m delighted

to have a chance to approach and solve
them. When a solution is found, it’s

incredible exciting.”
