DAVIDSON COLLEGI

The Davidsoni

SPECIAL FEATURE

A shot through

the heart of a community

Sallie McMurray

The creation of a dividing line

By MELISSA DE CASTRIQUE

Staff Writer

Technology changes daily. To-
day, any Davidson students armed with
a web browser, an ethernet connection,
and curious minds can have the world at
their fingertips without even leaving
their rooms. As an article in the No-
vember 1860 North Carolina Presbyte-
rian stated, “Davidson will be...in con-
stant communication with the outer
world.” This writer was not predicting
the information superhighway over 100
years in advance, however. Davidson's
worldly connection in 1860 was due to
the new railroad.

Before the railroad was finished in
1861, transportation was limited to the
Plank Road, which ran north to south
through the town of Davidson. This

line of eight-foot long wooden planks
was considered the wave of the future in
the 1850s, so the arrival of the Atlantic,
Tennessee and Ohio Railroad Company
was a welcome and exciting change.
The original tracks did not survive

the Civil War, but were relaid in 1871.

The day that train service was restored,
the entire community celebrated by
waving flags and cheering. The excite-
ment of students and community mem-
bers alike was expressed by the June
1871 Davidson Monthly, which de-
clared, “We...are no longer shut out
from the rest of creation.”

Davidson’s link to the outside

world was celebrated elsewhere. The
Davidson Monthly editors of 1871 told
readers of the “Grand Free Ride” to
Charlotte, which included not only a
free hour-long ride to Charlotte, but the

chance to hear speeches about the
railroad’s importance. The article rein-
forced the rarity of such an occasion by
telling readers, “In regard to the ride,
weonly have this to say, thatitis the last
free one we expect to take unless itis on
a voyage to the moon.”

Although the latest word from
NASA is that moon travel is hardly
free, the sentiments of these train trav-
elers were understood.

The excitement of technological
progress and the options it creates were
not taken for granted by the first travel-
erson Davidson’ s railroad. This excite-
ment should serve as an example to
Davidson students to revel in and take
advantage of the amazing opportunities
available over 130 years after the intro-
duction of the railroad to the town of
Davidson.
