THE DAVIDSONIAN

__ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1998

Do you really want to do this?

What is this place, a school or a for-profit corpo-
ration? First, the Union Cafe all but empties its
shelves and drastically cuts its hours in the name of

staying in the black, and now President Vagt has ©

proposed closing Chambers between the hours of 1
a.m. and 6 a.m. in order to save an estimated
$250,000 a year. This is not a happy thing. |
Mr. President, while you may believe that few
students study during the wee hours of the night,
anyone who has ever had two papers and a review

Che Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS |.

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

Business Manager

SCOTT REEDER | Op-Ed Editor

News Editors ERIN McKINLEY

LIZ NEIHEISEL
CARRIE ARTHUR

Circulation Manager

"BUGENIALEATH = Ats & Living Editors.
MELISSA ANN de

Sports Editors Advertising Managers

CASTRIQUE
ALISON KALETT PETER CLARK
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
BRIAN MAYERHOFER DAVID JOHNSTON go
. Op-Ed Layout Editors
News Layout Edit Copy Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY — WHITNEYBLAKE — JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN M CORMICK CINDY CLARK EVAN McCORMICK
ELDER GWIN JOHN DUNWOODY WILL PARKER
STEPHANIE
5 La Edi ERICKSON Arts& Living Layout Editors
ports Layout Ldtters CATHERINE CORNWELL
MOLLY MARKARIAN
CADER HOWARD AILEEN WATERS

Photo Editor
SALLIE McCMURRAY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Submit all letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by
Thursday at noon. Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian @ davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably
saved in either WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no
longer than 500 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for
space requirements and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published.

on the same day knows that a good night’s sleep is
rarely in the cards. And as far as study space goes,
our options are extremely limited after 1 a.m. rolls
around. Except for during exam time, the library
closes at 1. The Union closes at 1. The 24-hour
room is available, but one room can only contain so
many people. And when more than 10 or so stressed-
out, sleep-deprived college students are crammed
into a relatively small space study even more, ten-
sions grow, and the first one to breathe wrong is
likely to have his or her head smashed in with a
Statistics textbook.

Leaving Chambers open all night with card ac-
cess was a brilliant solution. Larger, and with more
individual spaces than the 24-hour room or the
Union can offer, Chambers allows students to study
in solitude or in groups, in silence or with discus-
sion. The white boards are great for working out
mathematical problems, and the extra desks or tables

_let students spread out their material for 50-page

research papers.

If you want to save money, why not simply place
signs above each light switch in Chambers remind-
ing students to turn off the lights when they’re
finished? Or (though this is not ideal) perhaps only
two of Chambers’s four floors could remain open for
student use.

I shudder to think what we’ II do without a clean,
well-lighted place in which to study late at night.
Are widespread panic and steadily declining GPAs
worth saving a buck? I think not.

Stanah £. Opler

@ LETTER TO THE EDITORS
A lot of hullabaloo

To the Editor:

Last week there was quite a lot of hullabaloo about Jeff Burhans’ column “A Filthy Legacy,” which
he wrote about the late Justice Powel (or Powell). He argued that Justice Powell’s decisions in the Bakke
and Webber decisions were racist.

Wow. The next week people were after him like a witch in Salem. Two letters and a column took
turns condemning his letter vigorously. Ben Wolff's, in particular, was well reasoned and researched.
However, his column was not the only thing they condemned. Two writers took their swipes at Burhans
in a personal manner as well. Only Kathy Buek refrained from insults. Wolff sank from writing a well
thought-out article to referring to Burhans’ column as an “ill-conceived piece of twaddle”. Mike
McCabe, in a tangent to his piece on freshmen, said that Burhans was wrong, and continuing to speak
ex cathedra, awarded him the “Should’(a) Gone to a State School’ Award”. Why was Burhans wrong,
according to McCabe? Apparently because Crabbie Says so. Not the sort of reasoning any professor
I know would swallow. 4

Finally, to the point. I happen to like opening up The Davidsonian and reading about something other
than the mashed potatoes at Commons. And I’m foolish enough to think that others do, too. While the
Davidsonian is more than a philosophical and political forum, it should be enough of one to allow
discussion without resorting to insults. :
Or maybe I should have gone to a state school. They might have more intelligent, mature discussions
there. y

Jeff Goldman ‘01
