s always, when the end of the first semes
A ter draws near, two realities begin to
dawn upon the Davidson population. The
first is the fact that the workload increases in such
dramatic proportions that it is necessary for stu-
dents to find new and inventive ways to put off
writing that ten-page research paper for just a few
more minutes. The second is that the holiday
season begins at Davidson the moment the
townsfolk put up those “Christmas in
Davidson” banners on every street lamp
that lines Main Street and that it is necessary
to decorate one’s room or hall in the spirit of
the aforementioned season. However, there .
are a number of students who don’t realize
that the ingenious procrastination technique
of decorating for the holidays can actually
help in your studies, if done in certain ways.
So, as a service to that school, I’m going to
supply you with the just a handful of the many
ways that decorating for the holidays can aid in
your education while here at Davidson. Below,
you will find a list, by subject, of the some of the
projects that you can do in order to prepare your-
self for final exams while you are bringing the joys
of the holidays to your hall, at the same time.

Chemistry and Decorating the Christmas Tree:

Finding the perfect ornaments for one’s
Christmas tree can be rather difficult, depending
upon when you shop.and your personal tastes.
While we can always rely on the ever-faithful
glassbulbs in shades of blue, green, red, silver, and
gold, sometimes you just might want something a
little more special and original.

Through the miracle of Styrofoam balls of
various sizes, acrylic paint, and super glue, we can
kill two birds with one stone. For those of you
who have a chemistry final coming up but also
want to get that tree decorated, why not make
molecular ornaments? While they might not be
the standard decoration, you can garner valuable
knowledge about bond angles as you put hydro-
gen and carbon atoms together to form a methane
molecule, or oxygen and hydrogen in forming the
life-giving liquid, water. Through your gluing
and painting, you can learn about the tetrahedral
organization of various atoms or the mystifying
effects of a lone pair.

English and Caroling Through the Town:

Bringing the joy of the season to others is a
common practice by a number of students. Often
at this time of year, small gatherings of friends
have gotten together to sing Christmas carols
throughout the town and campus. While a number
of studious individuals have been adverse to par-
. ticipating in these activities or listening to the great
music provided, it should be realized that a great
deal of learning can come from these songs of
happiness.

For those of-you who are preparing for a final
in a poetry or short story analysis course, why not
look at the Christmas carol for a little practice? A
number of songs have a special underlying mean-
ing that can only be discovered through careful
interpretation (read, reading between the lines). In
“Deck the Halls,” try to establish why this Hall
family deserves to be beaten with branches from a
tree. In “We Wish You a Merry Christmas,” use
context clues to learn why figgy pudding is so
important and why guests become belligerent and
participate in a sit-in, that is at least until they “get
some.”

Mathematics and Mistletoe:

Mistletoe, a guy’s excuse to use the pressure
of hundreds of years of tradition to attempt to get
a member of the opposite gender to kiss him.
While it is often received with a simple giggle or
aretort like “Are you serious?” or “Over my dead
and decaying body,” mistletoe has the ability to
open the door to a variety of opportunities. Why
shouldn’t one of those opportunities involve a
little math review?

For example, one might want to attempt to
find exactly how many sprigs of mistletoe’ are
necessary to hang from the ceiling of one’s hall in

order to receive one kiss from a member of the

opposite “gender, wherein the initiator is either
male or female. After thoughtful calculations and
some simple data gathering, I’m sure that someone
could develop a function which would give them
the appropriate answer.

Another example involves the hypothesis, “If
I hang mistletoe from my door,” and the conclu-
sion, “then I will receive a kiss from a member of

the opposite gender.” Attempting to prove this
statement true, one may find only acounterexample
and then have to deem the statement false. In any
form, however, one would be able to practice a
little bit of math while carrying on a tradition from
our past.

Biology and the Flora of the Season:

While preparing for your edible plants final
or just trying to get an idea of what makes up the
living organisms of this planet, why not take a
moment and look at the plants that fit in with the
holiday season? At this time of year poinsettias
and sprigs of mistletoe make their appearance with
pine trees in abundant quantities. So, with all of
this research material readily available, looking
into why these plants are poisonous may be a good

” Using the berries from a sprig of mistletoe,
try to determine how long it takes for the poison
in the berries to bring on medical problems from
nausea to the complete shutdown of the human
biological system. While testing on your room-
mate may be considered a Code of Responsibility
violation and, in some states, illegal, using small

enough quantities may ensure some results |

towards the friendlier side of the spectrum
of analysis.

Not putting up mistletoe for the hall?
Maybe you should look into decorating
with a poinsettia or two. In the many
wonderful and vibrant colors thatthey come
in, these flowers offer you a chance to
brighten up your room and look into the
horrific effects of poison at the same timé.
Following the same research methods as before or
coming up with a new technique will be a great
way to prepare for you final.

All in all, as the semester comes to a close
and we find ourselves scrambling to get the deco-
rations up for the holiday season, keep in mind
that there are ways to bring both of these hectic
events into a simple and useful method of procras-
tination. While you might not find them useful
now, who knows, maybe when you’re studying
for the electronics test and you look at your
Christmas. lights dangling around your room,
you'll be able to answer that age-old question,
“Why the hell are they blinking?” and you'll
realize that both the holidays and finals can be
celebrated together.

The Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN
News Editors Op-Ed Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL Business Manager ERIN McKINLEY
CARRIE ARTHUR SCOTT REEDER :
Arts & Living Editors’
Sports Editors Circulation Manager MELISSA ANN de
ALISON KALETT EUGENIA LEATH CASTRIQUE
MIKE ANDERSON WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Advertising Managers
News Layout Editors PETER CLARK Op-Ed Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY DAVID JOHNSTON JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN McCORMICK EVAN McCORMICK
ELDER GWIN Copy Editors WILL PARKER
WHITNEY BLAKE
Sports Layout Editors CINDY CLARK Arts& Living Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON, | JOHNDUNWOODY CATHERINE CORNWELL
MOLLY MARKARIAN ~~ a EEN WATERS
Ad Designers JUSTIN, MONROE
BEN COVINGTON JAY SCANLAN Photo Editor
CADER HOWARD SALLIE McCMURRAY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read Whe Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

Alenda Lux ater om unken’s

oy Woke Lote

Get the most out of procrastination: decorate We are

in a Material
World

hile on turkey break in Atlanta, my
sister and I were hit on by two guys

who lived in a car at the mall.

' Sketchy, I know, but intriguing at the same

time. .The guys were living in a new red
Volkswagen Beatle for a contest sponsored by
a radio station.

Out of the original eight individuals cho-
sen to live in the two Beatles, the two remain-
ing the longest won the beatles. Last year the
same radio station’s car contest consisted of |
riding a rollercoaster over and over again.
After six weeks, the station decided each of the
four individuals deserved a car and each re-

ceived a new Ford Ranger.

This year they called it quits as well and
held a drawing between the four for the two
beatles. Perhaps they have learned the dedica-

.tion of their contest participants; at Thanks-

giving, reaching the four-week mark, the con-
testants claimed they were staying until Christ-
mas.

It’s pretty hard for me to imagine putting
my entire life on hold to win a car. The

_ participant practically becomes an amoeba re-

©

lying on the family to provide meals and the
boss to understand why he or she will not be at
work for an indeterminable period of time, not
to mention any relationships or other obliga-
tions that must be shelved.

I definitely think it had begun to affect the
participants when we saw them, in part be-
cause of the mutual relunonship they had de-
veloped with the car.

(I mention the fact they hit on us to add
humor only; by this point, they probably would
have hit on my dog. When I commented on the
difficulty of having a relationship when one
lived ina car at the mall, the two responded by
assuring me they would take us to the Bahamas
after they won the car. I concluded the strain
of their limited lifestyle had seriously begun to
take a toll on their mental well-being.)

Even further, by the time you won the car,
I would venture to say you have become either
hopelessly attached or dreadfully sick of the
vehicle. The car might be yours, but it would at
the very least still smell like the three people
who lived in it with you.

The Car People, as they became known,
thrived or absorbed even their energy from the
constant attention they received from pass-
ersby who marveled at their determination and
idiocrasy, and the notoriety they achieved on
the television news programs, in the paper, and
in the small talk around Atlanta.

Allthis for acar. Granted, it’s anew (well,
slightly lived-in) Beatle, but c’mon — it’s a
piece of steel that goes from point A to point B.
As Madonna says, we know that we are living
in a material world.” But how far have we
advanced as a society if people will sacrifice
their very freedom IEA a means of transporta-
tion?

Our ability to reason logically is what
separates us from other animals. . While I
applaud the determination of these individu-
als, I shudder to think of the strain it would put
on everything that cared about them.

In the commercial hoopla that surrounds
the holiday season, pause to remember exactly
what your actions indicate you are celebrating.
Transportation-wise, the Car People make me
more appreciative of the Vamanos Van.

Lifestyle-wise, the car people force me to
re-evaluate how far I would 80; for a material .
possession.
