THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Carrié ARTHUR
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, September 8, the SGA
Senate passed the resolution of the Student Advi-
sory Council to the Director of Auxiliary Services
regarding improvements to the Union Cafe.
Foster Haselden, chair of the SAC, authored the
resolution. “I hope people will listen to it,” said
Haselden. “It really does come from the stu-
dents.” He continued, “It’s basically an articula-
tion of student concerns and student requests.”

Haselden was first concerned about the cafe
when he returned to campus for RLO staff train-
ing. “I saw the changes, and then all my friends
came and asked me about it.” In response,
Haselden talked to Richard Terry, the Director of
Auxiliary Services, to hlep update the SGA on the
changes. Haselden said people were most con-
cerned about the shortened hours and missing
bottled drinks. From there, Haselden and the
SAC continued to meet frequently with Terry
during the first two weeks of school.

Because of the meetings, health and beauty
products, First Aid, and bottled drinks have re-
turned. A smoothie machine and greaseless french
fry machine, which were purchased this summer,
will be installed once the Physical Plant runs the
power line.

Haselden calls the resolution he wrote with
SGA President Ann Harriot Fisher “the most
recent step we’ve done.” The Polling and Re-

Verghese speaks on orientation reading | Jorn SAC.

we ee NEWS
SGA Senate passes Cafe resolution

sponse committee will conduct a student survey,
and the SAC will continue to meet with Terry.
Haselden said that they will “work through the
SGA and the committee.”

Haselden, has enjoyed working with Terry,
who has been “very willing to work with the SAC”
and receptive to the committee’s suggestions.
Haselden said, “He (Terry) has a good relationship
with the SGA and this committee.” Haselden
understands “the economics of the situation and
that the Union Cafe is a business that actually runs
very well. Richard Terry is charged with reaching
a yearly income and finding out how to reach it.
They’re (Auxiliary Services) doing their job, and
we're (SAC) doing ours.” ;

The SAC also covers the Union Outpost, Vail
Commons, the laundry, in addition to the Union
Cafe. “We meet with the heads of each branch of
Auxiliary Services and tell them: what students
have ‘been talking to us about, get updates on
what’s coming next, and answer questions they
might have about students’ concerns or wishes,”
said Haselden. Haselden regards the committee
as a “communicative process,” and said it “has
been really active during the last two years.”

Resolutions are “the way SGA works. If we
really want something, we put it in writing,” said
Haselden. Past SGA resolutions include evaluat-
ing diversity at Davidson and helping Professor of
Spanish Magdalena Maiz-Pefia receive tenure.
For “the big things that students really want, the
senator that’s working on it writes it up. After it’s

written, the resolution is presented to the SGA, we
discuss it, and then vote on it.” Once a resolution
has passed, the SGA sends it to those Haselden
calls “the real decision makers.” Haselden hopes
that this resolution “carries a lot of weight because
it comes from the SGA and the students,” but adds
that the success of a resolution depends upon the
individual situation and time frame.

Haselden has worked on the SAC since Fall
1996, and he has been its chair since Spring 1997.
During this time, he believes, “communication has

been areal asset. Auxiliary Services has been very ~

cooperative and I understand that they have a job
to do that they work really hard at. Whenever they
can make an improvement, they always have.”

Terry also feels the process has been produc-
tive. “I very much appreciated the work of Foster
and the SAC, and I thought it was really great
work.” He was not surprised by anything in the
resolution. Terry is “trying to do what is best for
the school,” and he plans to “continue to bring back
some products such as batteries and frozen en-
trees.” The candy bar selection has already been
increased by thirty percent, the old Saturday hours
are back, and bottled drinks have been restored,
though Terry said the cafe “may not have the same
vast array.”

Auxiliary Services is still “exploring how we
can provide refrigeration (for bottled drinks) with-
out taking up as much space” so that there is room
for new products and the cafe is more handicap
accessible. Terry added that many items have just

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15,

been moved and students had problems finding
them. :

Planning to have a continuous process of
improvements, Terry is looking forward to the
SGA survey. He said that changes are “still in
flux” and that improvements “should always be
fluid.” He plans to work with Haselden to find a
process for continuous feedback. Terry empha-
sized, ‘“We’ re not enemies in this, the students and
Auxiliary Services and myself.”

Jesse Smallwood, chairman of the SGA Poll-
ing and Response Committee, said that they are
writing the survey to “gauge students’ numerical
and statistical reactions to changes in the Union.”
The Polling and Response Committee also hopes
“to get concrete ideas about how to improve the
Union and to change it to meet students’ needs.”
Smallwood plans to gauge whether students like
the changes, when students use the Cafe, whether
they use it for meals or snacks, what items students
use the most, their preferences, and their favorite
brand names. Smallwood said that brand names
are important because only three quarters of the
brands can be reinstated.

Haselden said, “I wrote this resolution just to
articulate what students have come up to me con-
cerned about and what they would like to see
improved at the Union Cafe, and I hope that this
has a positive impact on the Union.” Haselden
wants “everything to work out best for the stu-
dents. I think that’s why it’s (the Union Cafe)
there, to serve us.”

By Laura McCAanDLIsH
Staff Writer

Where does meaning rely in your
life? This was the proposition set forth
by Dr. Abraham Verghese when he came
to speak
to stu-
dents and
faculty in
Love Au-
ditorium
last
Wednes-
day night.
Verghese’s
talk was
following
the fresh-
main
class’s
reading
and dis-
cussions
of ~ his
book, My |
O-w an
Country,
during
orienta-
tion.

The
book
deals with
Verghese’s
personal
search for
meaning
in his life
as a phy-
sician and the search of his AIDS pa-
tients as they are abruptly confronted by
their mortality in Johnson City, Tenn,

Verghese told the audience that
“the cold and unimaginable language of
science couldn’t capture the grief in the
stories of my patients and their fami-
lies,” and thus he narrates them in My
Own Country.

In reference to the book, Verghese
said, “In these stories, there is a kind of
victory...All of us are going to die. It’s
not something we think about. Yet, when
you have HIV, it becomes your domi-
nant thought. One emotion comes out
more than anything: What has been the
meaning of my life? It’s often a question
we put off until the next step, but for my
patients, that question could not be ig-

@ Verghese

nored.”

Verghese left the audience with
life lessons from his experience. He
said, “meaning for my patients did not
reside in wealth, good looks, and
power. Meaning seemed to often re-

side in the relationships they had
formed with family, friends, and sig-
nificant others.” Verghese concluded
his talk with a letter written from a
dying AIDS patient to his mother.

While at Davidson, Verghese
talked with Dr, Rosemarie Tong’s
Medical Humanities class and had a
breakfast with Dr. Brenda Flanagan’s
creative writing class.

He also participated in a book

_ signing in Charlotte for his recently

published second novel, The Tennis
Partner: A Doctor's Story of Friend-
ship and Loss. Verghese told the
Medical Humanities class about the
need for compassion and moral sensi-
tivity as well as scientific competency
in physicians. Tong said, “Dr.

Verghese is a model for the way medi-
cine should be in the new millennium.
He’s a perfect combination of head and
heart.”

Freshman Roshan Paul, from Ban-
galore, India, traces his roots to Kerala,

‘the same southern state in India from

Dennis Cowardin

which Verghese’s parents migrated.
Kerala is predominately Christian and
Muslim, and the only state in India to
have a 100 percent literacy rate. Paul,
who met Verghese. during a breakfast,
said, “It was nice to speak to someone
eloquent but also soft spoken. Dr.
Verghese can talk for hours on
anything...He has a treasury of experi-
ence to draw from.”

English professor Dr. Tony Abbott,
who introduced Verghese tothe audi-
ence in Love Auditorium, said, “Ithought
it was a wonderful evening. I was im-
pressed with Dr. Verghese’s warmth and
openness. :

“Reading his book for orientation
and then having him come here was a
very powerful combination.”

DEAN RUSK
MEETING SUNDAY,
§ P.M. IN THE

CAROLINA INN.

University of Wisconsin-Platteville

“Uf you have built castles in the air,
your vork need not be wst.
This is.where they shov'd be
Yow put the foundations under them.”
—Henry David Thoreau

rit * pe ee pets teh

~

Learn Your Way Around The World

* Study abroad in England, Mexico, Japan, or Spain
¢ Courses in tiberal arts and international business

* Fluency in a foreign language not required

¢ Home-stays or dorms with meals

¢ Field trips

* Financial aid applies (except for summer session)

Program Costs:
* For tuition, room, board and field trips per semester (for
Wisconsin residents/non-residents)
* In London, England: $4675/$4975
* In Puebla, Mexico: $5275/$5575
* In Nagasaki, Japan: $4075/$4375
¢ In Seville, Spain: $5975/$6275
Application deadlines:
* April 1 for summer session
* October 15 for spring semester
For further information contact;
Toll free: 1-800-342-1725
E-reail: StudyAbroad@uwplatt.edu
Web: http://www.uwplatt.edu/programs/study_abroad/

* April 30 for fall semester

