_THE DAVIDSONIAN |

_TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 1998

IVCF crosses offensive

al disasters, viruses, sanitation, racism,
genocide, and terrorism threatening the ex-
istence of civilization, but in a country which
devotes its headlines to the sexual allegations of its
president and large sums of money to the litigation
thereof, a brief diatribe on the innocuous erection
of three crosses on the private property of. an
affluent institution is perfectly within reason.
First of all, I recognize and champion IVCF’s
(Inter Varsity Christian Fellowship) right to put up

S ure, there is war, starvation, pollution, natur-

crosses, flyers, or whatever paraphernalia with
which they want to advertise their dogma. What I
object to is the abuse of this right. Placing life size
crosses — that is, crucifying dimensions — smack
in the main pathway that leads to classes is a clear
attempt to get in the face of people whether they
like it or not. The crosses cannot be avoided
(practically); everyone must pass by them and be
reminded of whatever associations, positive or
negative, they have with them.

But what if some don’t wantto see the crosses?
What if some don’t believe in the crosses? What
if some are disgusted with the crosses? What is
gained by impressing the symbol of Christianity
per force? Of course, no one will be converted, nor
will anyone have a spiritual revelation simply by
the cross’s presence. If, then, [VCFis only indulg-

ing themselves, the public promotion of their faith «

is unnecessary and simply commercial. The crosses

could be erected at IVCF’s weekly meetings or at
some secluded Jocation where all can gaze upon
them but where no one else is forced to. After all,
they are only as potent as the faith of those who
believe in them.

Ironically, a group which prides itself in love
and ethics demonstrates selfishness, inconsider-
ation, and disregard by brandishing its icon. Aware
that some are disturbed by the sight of the crosses
and that some do not believe in what the crosses
symbolize, IVCF continues to erect their crosses
year after year. They claim they display their
trademark once a year as a reminder that Chris-
tianity is not a faith to be worshipped once a week
but every day (this according to the sign posted in
front of the crosses). But the mere sight of crosses

will not convert the atheist or result in a surge of ~

Christian fervor. Time-bred habits cannot be
changed over fleeting moments. .

IVCF inconsiderately planted their crosses
as a publicity stunt. . Once again swept away in
narcissism, they disregarded the feelings and be-
liefs of others, all for a chance to advertise their
dogma. What good will come of it? Perhaps a
temporary surge in church attendance. What bad
will come of it? Disturbance of peace of mind,
peace of sight, and peace of pathos, all at the
expense of flaunting fanaticism.

Indeed, in a politically free society, we may
have the right to be obnoxious and disturb others.
In a harmonious community, however, citizens do
not abuse their rights but rather respect the rights
of others before the rights of themselves. In a
harmonious community, conflict is anticipated
and avoided before it emerges. In a community
which takes pride in possessing the virtue to live
under an Honor Code, such an ideal society is not
a vision but an expectation.

Service a good place to start

of weeks ago, and I anticipate that Julian

Bond’s speech will also be enlightening. We
listen to these speeches and feel motivated to go
out and do something to change the world we live
in. All too quickly, however, we stop in our
tracks somewhere between Love Auditorium and
our dorm room upon realizing that we don’t
really know what is going on in the world —
much less how to change it.

I think that is a great danger facing gradu
ates of Davidson. We don’t know too much
about what it is like to be poor, as most of the

I really enjoyed hearing Oscar Arias a couple

world lives, or even what it is to be middle class
as so many of our fellow American citizens do.
We don’t know material or physical need. Most
of us haven’t lived with need or even been put in

situations in which we could even begin to empa-

thize with those who struggle daily to survive.
Davidson separates us from the majority.

Why should we bother caring about how
everyone else lives? If we were on the other end
of the spectrum, we would want someone to care.
It is so easy to get caught up in a cycle of
achievement — financially, academically, physi-

cally — that we don’t even realize how little we
know about how the majority of the world lives.
While he has much to teach us, Oscar Arias
speaks to us horizontally — he is financially
well-off and educated.. It is difficult to be recep-
tive to a message that we can’t really understand
from the damaging pedestal of wealth and educa-
tion — induced ignorance. Our motivation to
change the world quickly falls away if we don’t
know how to facilitate change or why to bother or
even what needs changing.

Forming relationships with people outside
of upper-class society is undoubtedly challeng-
ing but desperately necessary. . Service is one
way to engage ourselves in these relationships.
Approaching service to others with the hope of
learning what it is to walk in another’s shoes,
with the hopes of using that knowledge along
with the skills that one has with a Davidson
education, is life giving. Perhaps Davidson has
such an emphasis on service because the institu-
tion realizes this need to bridge the natural sepa-
ration. We struggle with how to make service a
meaningful way of life instead of an activity to be
checked off. The blessing of a Davidson educa-
tion is that if you choose to struggle with these
issues, there are people here to encourage you to
find a resolution. This school has the resources
to provide both the motivation and the skills
needed to begin to understand and change the
world — not only for yourself but for the major-

ity.

“COLOR OF FEAR”

Thursday, Apr. 23

5:30 p.m. - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room

FREE DINNER PROVIDED BY LoTus 28

o

LIMITED TO THE FIRST 200 IN ATTENDANCE

Sponsored by the Dean of Students Office, the Union Board, the SGA, the BSC, the PCC, The
Davidsonian, the International Student Association, and the Service Council.

AVE THE LAST WORD.

The last issue of The Davidsonian comes out next week. Get your
two cents in before the year is over. Write for seid

