By Jessica Goopson
Senior Staff Writer

The shooting that left police officer Mark
Swaney and Davidson youth Damon Kerns dead
happened about 5:30 p.m. Christmas Day in the
neighborhood just west of the Davidson College
campus, across from the Ada Jenkins Center.

The Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police Depart-
ment has been called upon to investigate the double
homicide. In the meantime, an entire community
seeks solutions to issues which culminated in the
death of two of its citizens.

Kerns, 18, left his home Christmas evening,
despite relatives’ efforts to dissuade him, in pur-
suit of a gunman who had fired on his family in a
drive-by shooting only moments before.

Witnesses told investigators that Kerns left
the Westside Terrace on foot, followed by rela-
tives who called for the Davidson officers’ assis-
tance to prevent Kerns’ anticipated retaliation. On

Mock Circle, Kern’s family again physically tried
tostop him. Swaney and Sergeant Charles McLean
intervened and attempted to restrain Kerns, who
responded by striking Swaney twice.

Swaney pepper-sprayed Kerns as the two
officers fought to take him into custody. After
someone in the gathering crowd pulled Swaney’s
arm away, Kerns briefly broke the grasp of the
officers, seizing the opportunity to pull a pistol and
fire several shots at Swaney.

Officers drew their service pistols and re-
turned fire, instantly killing Kerns, who was pro-
nounced dead at the scene. Swaney died later at
Carolinas Medical Center in Charlotte.

“It was mayhem,” said Grayling Houston,
who was staying at a nearby home. “There were
police everywhere. It’s a shame this happened on

Christmas. You’ve got three families shattered
now.” :

McLean was released from the hospital two
days afterward, having sustained critical injuries.
Kerns was laid to rest Sunday, Dec: 28 at
Gethsemane Baptist Church in Davidson. More
than 600 law enforcement agents assembled the
same day on the front lawn of Fieldston Presbyte-
rian Church in Moorseville to honor Swaney.

Swaney had worked for the Davidson Police
Department since 1995 and had recently been
reinstated after a three-month suspension for fir-
ing into an occupied dwelling while off duty.

es RR ce ee ca

ooting leaves two dead, one wounded

terian Church spoke words of healing and lit a
unity candle representative of the entire Davidson
community. Damon’s aunt and uncle spoke on his
behalf and Pastor James Howell of Davidson United
Methodist Church lit candles for Officers Swaney
and McLean. .

Anestimated 400 community members turned
out for the prayer vigil. Tapia said she was pleased
by the diverse composition of the group.

“People were hesitant to leave,” said Tapia.
“Usually we’re eager to run back to our work at
Davidson, but there was an obvious feeling of God
at the vigil.” ee

Friday, Dec. 26, town and civic leaders met to try
to calm tensions and share feelings.

“Naturally there was tension expressed at the
scene,” said Assistant Chaplain and Director of
Common Ground Brenda Tapia. “We can’t get
away from race toa degree, but this is not a racial
issue. There should be no value judgments. Two
lives have been cut short, and we have to acknowl-
edge this and lift it up to someone who can do
something about it. In my knowledge, that’s
God.”

Common Ground’s executive council called
an emergency meeting to organize a prayer vigil,
which was held on the field behind the Senior
Nutrition Center at Ada Jenkins. Candles were lit
in honor of Kerns, Swaney, and McLean.

Kerns Tapia
P . ls

Worker = Tragedy occurs across the tracks in Davidson {, >;

at Vail ON Christmas Day. advan-

Com- tage of

mons. t he

vigil to

introduce Robert Mohammed of the Nation of
Islam, whom she hopes will initiate ‘manhood
training” programs in Davidson.

“T realized that there is a segment of people in
this community - young black men ages 16 to 29
- who are disenfranchised,” said Tapia. “‘This is a
vulnerable group, and the Nation of Islam is known
to assist these boys. They help them to become
men.

Tapia also cited the lack of alcohol and sub-
stance abuse awareness as an issue which contrib-
uted to the shooting. Five counselors were invited
on Jan. 5 to speak with various witnesses and
acquaintances of Kerns and offer their expertise
on drug-related incidents.

Common ground will consequently launch
an initiative to educate the Davidson community

VEEL HNE NARA ARE ODA DIA A BERN IE RTE SBT AEE LH

SPR EDN AME ROR RCE ARBE ES

through a series of three weekly classes on the
disease of alcohol and substance abuse, how it
affects the family, and where to go for help. The
series is tentatively set to begin Mar. 1 and willrun
continuously thereafter.

But the goal of Common Ground is not a
paternalistic one, said Tapia. They do not hold all
the answers.

“We want to know from the community what
the issues are. We still don’t feel that everyone has
shared.”

Common Ground will organize several teams
consisting of a trained facilitator, recorder, ob-
server, and a fourth person to conduct a commu-
nity inquiry about problems which are not cur-
rently addressed in Davidson.

The teams will comprise a diverse group by
age and race and will make themselves accessible
through a variety of sites including churches, club
houses, and laundry rooms - wherever community
members congregate.

At the celebration of Imani (faith), the eighth
day of Kwanza, we spoke of binding the threads of
faith, said Tapia. ‘We spoke of a time for believ-
ers, regardless of their particular faith, to take their
threads of faith and weave a rope to lift up human-
ity for we are morally and ethically fallen. It will
take that rope to pull us back where God would
have us be.”

Tapia encouraged Davidson students to be-
comé involved in the effort. She also invited
students to attend the Common Ground meetings
every third Monday night from 7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
at the Ada Jenkins Center. :

In lieu of this month’s meeting, Common
Ground will meet at the Martin Luther King Wor-
ship Service and Gospel Fest. Regular meetings
will resume on Feb. 16.

Pastor L. Bryant Parker of Davidson Presby-

Remembering the past, hoping future

Davidson graduate contemplates the events that shattered a quiet college town

By Isaac BaliLey ‘95
Guest writer

A child’s curiosity is more impor-
tant than the pain and suffering accom-
panying the tragic loss of a friend. Chil-
dren can provide the spark for profound
thought when painful realities cloud
our judgment and hinder us from think-
ing critically and broadly.

I know, because I lost a friend
recently in that fatal Christmas night
shooting in Davidson that left 18-year-
old Damon Kerns and 26-year-old po-
lice officer Mark Swaney dead. I know,
even without focusing on the tearful
faces and broken hearts of hundreds,
maybe thousands, of friends and fami-
lies those men left behind.

And I know, when I realize our
children are growing up in a violent
world.

A few years ago I sat in a doctor’s
office, quietly thumbing through a
magazine that listed the “Bottom 50
Colleges.” Schools with the poorest
black student-athlete graduation rates
were being cited, or indicted, if you
will. The more I read the article and
noticed the names of the very promi-
nent and high profile institutions in-
cluded, the more I became upset. I sat
ready to accuse “White America” (what-
ever that means), of being at most, rac-
ist, and at least, blind and insensitive, to
the needs of minorities.

“That’s what they do,” I thought.

“Use us like farm animals to make °

money then throw us out in the cold to
fend for ourselves without an educa-
tion.”

It didn’t matter much that I was an
African-American college football

player at a high profile, white institu-
tion myself, nearing graduation. About
98 percent of my education at Davidson
college, almost $22,000 a year at the
time, was being paid for by the school,
federal grants, and other scholarships.

Neither did it cross my mind that
education is a two-way street — one
that begins with the individual and
stretches in the direction of many po-
tential teachers — meaning even black
college athletes, along with the schools
in which they are enrolled, should be
held responsible.
for their academic

eyes away from me. Barney and Big
Bird themselves could have eritered the
room and not interrupted his penetrat-
ing stare.

If he was 10 years or more older,
I'm sure I would have addressed him
and accused him of being some uncouth
individual who had no respect for the
privacy of blacks, Not only was I the
insensitive one, but naive and hypo-
critical as well, for jumping to conclu-
sions without first using reason.

Then finally, his mother re-entered

person I considered a friend, and in so
many ways, a younger brother. I cried
my tears, blamed myself for not doing
more and tried to make sense of another
death, of which we’ ve all experienced
too many.

Yet, if the name and location were
different, I’m sure I would have read
the article, said my “we've go to, stop
this!” and not thought about the article
again. Just like many people have al-
ready done. Another black male killed
before the age of 22; another heroic

officer slain in the

success. I didn’t
take the time to
recognize that
most issues aren’t
simply black and

“Another black male killed before the age of 22; another

heroic officer slain in the line of duty is probably all that
most people will remember.”

line of duty is
probably all that
most people will
. remember.
And
that’s it. That’s all

white — espe-

cially not the one ,,
that seems to divide somany blacks and
whites — until I encountered a little

* white boy in the waiting room that day.

He could have been no more than 5
years old.

Ilooked up from reading that maga-
zine quite a few times, trying to conceal
my disgust about the reported gradua-
tion rates. And each time I looked up, I
noticed this young guy staring in my
direction. At first I thought he was just
daydreaming, and by sheer coincidence,
his eyes just so happened to be locked in
my direction. But after looking away,
then back again several times, I began

to wonder why he stared so religiously.

Icringed abit, feigned a few smiles
and even began to count the seconds as
they slowly elapsed on my watch. Still,
he stared. Nothing going on in that

~ room was interesting enough to pull his

the room. And before’ she could ap-
proach him, he hurriedly ran over to
her, jumped into her arms and asked an
incredibly probing question: “Mommy,
mommy,” he screamed as if in pain.
“Why is that man brown?”

There we were, a couple o dumb-
founded adults — one black, one white
— and one curious, seemingly fright-
ened child.

And there I was, just a few weeks
ago, reading an article about an officer
slain in the line of duty; and an 18-year-
old teenager who was killed as well. I
noticed the-story that day because of
where the incident occurred — David-
son, N.C. — the place where I spent the
last six years of my life.

The names were being withheld at
that point, and not until later did I find
out the teenager killed was Damion, a

we eventually re-
member. The
events of that night will be probed and
challenged and relived in several minds
and in too many hears, but when all is
said and done, we normally fall back

. into the path that allowed this tragedy to

occur in the first place.
Out of anger, we begin to fight one
another with words and divide our-

selves further. Out of fear, we run and .

hide behind our prejudices and short-
comings. In the name of love, we cry a
tear and console a friend or two. Andy
maybe out of ignorance, we forget the
reason for those things. :

- Once the emotion drips away and
the anger finds itself a cool resting place
in the deep crevices of our grieving
souls, all we remember is that another
black male is killed before the age of 22
and another police officer was slain in
the line of duty.

Ihaven’t forgotten because I, just
a week ago, met another curious little
boy. And that 2year-old simultaneously
made me hopeful and fearful angry about
this thing called life.

When he met me, he began point-
ing at me and constantly grabbing at me
saying “red man, red man.” I was wear-
ing a red sweater that day, and to him,
any person in ared shirt or sweater was
a red person. He referred to an older
white woman earlier in the week as
“purple lady” because she wore a purple
blouse.

To witness this naivete was re-
freshing because it gave me a reason to
hold onto hope for the future. Here was
this child, this individual, whose mind
seemed absent fear and anger, and I’m
sure the same can be said about his
heart. He was just a curious, little kid
searching for another reason to smile,
willing to learn, almost begging to be
heard.

And it scared me out of my mind
when I began to wonder about how a 5-
year-old Mark Swaney and a 2-year-
old Damon Kerns expressed their curi-
osity. About how they questioned their
Strange, new surroundings.

And about how society answered.

$e

Isaac J. Bailey is a 1995 graduate of
Davidson College and current feature
writer for The Sun News in Myrtle
Beach, S.C., where this article origi-
nally appeared. While a student at
Davidson, Isaac was one of Damon
Kern’s community Big Brothers and
counselor-mentors in Davidson’s Love
of Learning Program.
