THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LiIviInG

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1

Mia Chung plays

Bach, Chopin, Hyla

By Wes.ey H. Go_psBerry
Arts & Living Editor

The Davidson College Concert Series had
still not quite gotten past all of the thunder caused
by William Kanengiser’s guitar recital on January
21. Nonetheless, Sunday night was piano night in
fabled Hodson Hall, where Mia Chung gave a
grueling and impressive two-hour performance.

Chung chose to reverse the order of the pro-
gram, performing J.S. Bach’s “Goldberg Varia-
tions” following rather than preceding intermis-
sion.

The recital began with two Schubert
impromptus, one in E-flat major and another in G-
flat major. These were well-received by the ca-
pacity crowd, as keyboard aficionados one and all
became enthralled with her impressive combina-
tion of raw technique and sensitivity.

Ms. Chung’s stage presence was highly com-
mendable. She addressed the audience before
each piece, clarifying the purpose and history
behind each work.

Chopin’s Fantasy in F Minor, the third piece
on the program, was the highlight of the perfor-
mance for many audience members. A delightful,
imaginative work, many found it to be more palat-
able than the piece which followed it, Lee Hyla’s
“Riff and Transfiguration.”” Composed in 1996,
“Riff and Transfiguration” was as modern of a
work as they come, a piece with no discernable
meter or hypermeter. To some, it sounded as if
Hyla had mashed down on the keys at random for
afew minutes, wrote it alldown on staff paper, and

impressive in its own right, and provided a para-
mount challenge to Chung, for whom the piece
was commissioned by the Concert Artists Guild.
The piece was also, in Chung’s own words, “‘physi-
cally demanding,” providing both a good workout
for her arms and an ample warm-up for the second
half of the program. ,
Liasons for the Davidsonian positioned in

Cunningham Fine Arts Center bathrooms reported ~

much buzzing about the “Riff and Transfigura-
tion” amongst audience members, who described
the piece as “interesting.”

Bach’s “Goldberg Variations” comprised the
entire second half of the concert. Although the
work itself is a fascinating compositional feat (as
evidenced by the program notes), the 32-piece
sequence proved tiring for many. Chung tickled
ivory after ivory, playing variation after variation,
until after knocking out the Quodlibet and the aria
da capo her hands finally fell to rest. The audience
granted Chung a couple of curtain calls, paying
homage to her endurance.

Mia Chung has won numerous awards and
grants throughout the 1990s, becoming one of
America’s premier young pianists. She has made
several recordings and has performed all over the
world, including a gig at Weill Recital Hall at
Carnegie Hall in New York. Chung, a graduate of
the Juilliard School, is currently on faculty at
Gordon College in Wenham, MA.

Mia Chung’s recital won much praise and
appreciation from students, faculty, and commu-
nity members alike. The Concert Series will
conclude on Monday, March 30, when the

gave it a title. To Hyla’s credit, the work was

Amadeus Trio takes the stage.

. : Jeffrey Hornstein
@ Mia Chung gave a recital last Sunday night in Hodson Hall as part
of the Davidson College Concert Series.

“Chasing Amy” to show in the 900 Room Feb. 18 and 20

By Ep PaGe
Staff Writer

“Chasing Amy” is a poignant love
story that aims itself at the college and
twenty-something crowd and hits its
mark. Originally released in April of
last year, “Chasing Amy” will be play-
ing in the 900 Room next week.

Holden and Banky are best friends
and authors of a popular comic book
called “Bluntman & Chronic” (based
on Jay and Silent Bob of “Clerks” and
“Mallrats” fame). Holden (an excellent
Ben Affleck) and his best friend Banky
(Jason Lee) pass their time by attending
comic book conventions, dallying in
romance, and goofing around. Kevin
Smith, who wrote and directed the movie
— the third installment in his Jersey
trilogy — makes these characters in-

tense and funny. It’s all in the writing.

We meet his heroes at a comic
book convention, where they’re
autographing copies of their hit cult
comic “Bluntman & Chronic.” Soon,
Holden meets Alyssa (Joey Lauren
Adams), another comic book artist, and
during along dart game ina nearby pub,
they find that their minds are well-
matched.. ‘Later, though, Alyssa in-
forms Holden that she is a lifelong
lesbian, and he finds himself confronted
with a difficult challenge — can he be
friends and nothing more, with this
woman that he clearly loves? The jeal-
ousy, confusion, and wounded emo-
tions that come into play here are tightly
woven and deftly handled. Thought he
is frustrated by his unrequited love, he
becomes close friends with Alyssa and
finds that their friendship is driving a

wedge between him and Banky. A
relationship eventually does. develop,

@ Affleck and Adams

but this leads to more difficulties for all
three. This is where the true heart of the
movie lies.

I have not seen either “Clerks” or
“Mallrats,” the first two movies of this
trilogy, but the writing and quality of
this movie make me want to go back

and watch those two as well. The banter
between Alyssa, Holden, and (some-
times) Banky is genuine, realistic, and
fun. One day Holden.asks Alyssa,
“How could you have grown up on the
shores and never played skee-ball?
What did you do with your childhood?”
She responds, “Stayed out late, smoked
pot, screwed around.” Holden retorts,
“Not your grade school years; your
high school years.” The mock tirade by
Hooper, a gay black friend of theirs
about the racism in “Star Wars,” is
great.

The writing which Smith offers to
the viewer is an excellent portrayal and
hilarious glimpse into these people’s
lives.

Still, even though there are plenty
of laughs, this movie is a drama all the
way, and it’s dramatic in a way that

probably only the college folk and
twenty-somethings can appreciate. This
is a movie about trying to move into a
grown-up phase of your life when you’ re
unable to completely handle the new,
tough emotions.

Ultimately, it is a rewarding expe-
rience, a serious look at some difficult
issues for people our age.

No matter how much I enjoyed the
movie overall and its writing, there were
a few instances where I was flustered by
the way Smith wrote some of the scenes.
I cannot explain further, because the
one scene that bothered me the most is
important to the outcome of the movie.
All I will say is that I don’t know of
anyone who would handle a situation
that way; there has be a better way to
arrive at the same conclusion. Grade:
B.

On the Scene at DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Coffeehouse. Coffee and donuts. Bring small
change. 8:15 a.m.-11:15 a.m. in 900 Room
“Secrets and Lies.” Film full of lies and secrets.
7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Michael Sells. Speaker. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Free newtons. 7:30 p.m. at the
Outpost.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit. More art, by
Roger and his friends. All week long. 10:00 a.m. -
6:00 p.m. in the VAC.

21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because you can. 10:00
P.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Duke Divinity School represen-
tative. For the world’s only 60-
year-old Gothic cathedral. 10:30
a.m. - 12:00 p.m.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit.
Continues throughout the week.
Philosophy lecture. 4:30 - 6:00
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Coffeehouse. Save your Bonus Bucks,
patronize the Krispy Kreme corporation.
8:15 a.m-11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.
Alcohol Awareness. It’s everywhere,
man. 1:00 - 3:00 p.m. on Chambers
Lawn. .

Sobriety Testing. In conjunction with
said alcohol awareness. 3:15 - 4:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

Roomin the Inn. Every Saturday .
4:00 p.m. at Johnston Gym.

Jumpin’ Java. Caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Young Life Meeting. 5:00 - 6:30
p.m. in the Union Conference
Room.

Sobriety Testing. Test your sobri-
ety with Georgia Ringle and friends.
7:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

TUESDAY
_ WEDNESDAY

THURSDAY

SATURDAY

= a cee Yy oo.

Rag thes See arcc

ke

Crush Sale. Buy orange soda for your friends in
secret. 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. in Chambers 1st Floor
Hallway. .

Meditation Class. Ommmmmm. 5:30 p.m.-6:30
p.m. in the Home Room.

“The Color Purple.” Oprah in her pre-libel days.
7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Rape Awareness Meeting. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the
Wilson Room.

Info. meeting on Sun Life. Check it out. 7:00 - 9:00
p.m, in the Union Conference Room.

“Daughters of the Dust.” Film. 9:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Howto Find Summer Internships.
There must be a way. 5:00 - 7:30
p.m. in the Home Room.

M.A.D.D. Speakers. Speakers from
M..A.D.D. 7:30 - 9:30 p.m. at Vail
Commons.

“Shaft.” Because he’s abad mutha
—“shut yo’ mouth!” The 70s classic
shows in the 900 Room at 9:30 p.m.

Friday Afternoon Club. Speaking
of alcohol awareness, there’s some
beer in the 900 Room from 4:30
p.m.-7:30 p.m.
“Friday.” It’s amovie. 8:00 p.m. in
the 900 Room.
“Love Jones.” Capping off the
night's doubleheader. 10:00 p.m. in
the 900 Room.

Billy’s Cosmic Love Fest. Call
Billy Roberts for more info. It’s an F-
Crew-sponsored thing. At night in
the 900 Room.

University of East Anglia representative. Come
On, you know you're interested. 12:00 - 1:30 p.m. in
the Union Lobby. f
Volunteer Pizza Bribe. Volunteers, bribed with
pizza. 5:00 - 6:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Poetry reading tonight. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

Judge Vic Fleming. He'll speak in the Chambers
Gallery from 7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

Former VA Governor Douglas Wilder. Probably a
much bigger deal than the other stuff in this box; you
should all go. He speaks from 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Second City. 10:00 - Midnight at Hodson Hall.
