THE DA

VIDSONIAN

ees

“This year’s freshman class is the largest ever,” people keep telling me. I heard this last year, I’m
pretty sure I heard it the year before (although since I was a freshman then, so it didn’t seem to matter
as much — hey, / was there, right?), and strains of the same are now wafting into my ears once again.
The people who tell me this, spit out their words while either smirking or grimacing — but in both cases,
I take it that this development is not entirely a happy thing for them.

But why not? With the Class of 2000, the male-female ratio was finally pretty much balanced out,
a goal that had taken over 20 years to achieve. And growing numbers of incoming students mean that
our school is finally beginning to get the recognition it deserves, doesn’t it? Because it isn’t that the
Admissions, Office is accepting a greater number of people (according to one of my in-the-know
friends), but rather that a greater number-of people are accepting their invitations to join our little
community.

Now, I’mall for recognition (after all, my high school guidance counselor still thinks I should have
gone to Penn State), buteven someone who’s been living in the archives for the past three and a half years
could figure out that if this trend continues, our “little community” may not be little for much longer.

Signs of this are already showing up on campus. We see it in the shortage of housing for this
semester. We see it in the new eating house that is swiftly springing up near the sophomore dorms. We
see it when we have to drive the entire circle twice just to find a parking space in the darkest corner of
Baker. We see it in the longer lines and thicker crowds at the Commons. Most notably of all, we see
it when we encounter twice as many unfamiliar faces as we used to when hurrying from Chambers to
some other destination. :

But the situation doesn’t have to be all bad. The way I see it, Davidson is faced with two options
— well, two good options and a bad one. Since I’m an infernally stubborn optimist, I’ll glance over the
less desirable option first: We could, in fact, do nothing. We could allow the parking terrors to go on,
continue to force students to live off campus; and attempt to pack even more people into the ever-
growing eating houses.

The second option (and a far better one, at that), is to accept the fact that Davidson is a growing
school and to make the changes necessary to accommodate this new influx of students. Building another
dorm, which Kurt Holmes suggested doing in a past issue of The Davidsonian, wouldn’t be a bad idea,
anyway, but it will surely prove useful in our booming future, when on-campus student housing runs
even shorter than it presently does. (We could also create a compulsory studyabroad-for-at-least-one-
semester program, but I’m not sure that would go over too well. After all, who goes to a school because
they want to be, in effect, expelled for a semester?)

Allotting more space for parking or limiting the number of students who are allowed to have
vehicles on campus would help take care of the parking issue. Also, adding professors to each academic
department could help to ensure that classes retain their famously low ceilings and that majors can
continue to study their subjects of choice.

With these concessions made to physical comfort, I guess we could get used to the inevitable

Che Dabidsontan

ALENDA. LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER
News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL
_ CARRIE ARTHUR

Op-Ed Editor

Circulation Manager ERIN McKINLEY

EUGENIA LEATH

Arts & Living Editors

Advertising Managers - — 4E1 ISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE

Sports Editors

ALLISON KALETT PETER CLARK WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
BRIAN MAYERHOFER DAVID JOHNSTON
; Op-Ed Layout Editors
News Layout Editors Copy fiditors JOHN DUNWOODY
WHITNEY BLAKE
JOHN DUNWOODY EVAN McCORMICK
CINDY CLARK
EVAN McCORMICK WILL PARKER
WILL PARKER JOHN DUNWOODY.
STEPHANIE ERICKSON :
; MOLLY MARKARIAN Arts& Living Layout Editors
Sports Layout Editors : CATHERINE CORNWELL
BEN COVINGTON Photo Editor KAREN SWEENEY
CADER HOWARD, __... SALLIE McMURRAY ‘ AILEEN WATERS
Phoiographers
SARA CROMWELL

RANDY SKATTUM

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Do we see.a trend here?

Submitall letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon.
Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@davidson.edu. _

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either
WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500-words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements
and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published. : ee

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

depersonalization of our institution. No, we weren’t just a number before, but larger numbers of people
tend to be much easier to remember by, well, their numbers. And if we no longer recognize most of the
people we pass during the day and see on the Court and in the Union, well, we can become accustomed
to that, too. ,

The third option (my favorite), is that we could become more selective in our admissions process,
thereby keeping our beloved school close to the same, ideal size it has been for, well, a while. Sixteen
hundred is such a beautiful number, and yet most of the people I went to high school with are in a
graduating class three times that size. The truth is, there aren’t that many schools left like Davidson.
We're a dying breed, toppling from various capital- and Final Four-related diseases. If we do become
more selective, our facilities can remain basically the same (although a new dorm would still help), and
we can retain that small-community feel that makes Davidson so special. ;

Too many small liberal arts schools have fallen victim to the numbercrunching machine. Let’s not
allow Davidson to become one of them.

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR @

Burhans is wrong

To the Editor: _

Excuse me, did Jeff Burhans actually say that “discrimination against white males is rampant
throighout our society”? You have GOT to be kidding me. Rampant, huh? Are there any statistics to
back that up? You know, like the thousands upon thousands which tell us that non-whites and women
constitute an overwhelming majority of families or individuals living at or below poverty level, or the
ones that tell us that only .a handful of women and/or racial/ethnic minorities occupy positions in the
upper ranks of government and business. Does he have any anecdotal evidence? Say, for instance, does
he have a white male friend who was passed up for a promotion because he might decide to have children
or who smacked into some sort of white male glass ceiling?

I doubt it. I am positive, however, that white males have NOT “grown so accustomed to it that it
is hard to imagine our country without affirmative action.” I bet our parents remember very well. Let's
not compare the past couple of decades of affirmative action to the centuries of social and economic
disadvantage that women and minorities have as part of their very identities. Affirmative action was not
created to reverse discrimination back onto the more privileged groups in our society (i.e. whites and
males), nor has it come anywhere near close to doing so. It hasn’t “accorded unconditional protection
from discrimination in all facets of society” to women and minorities either.

Check the stats, hell, just look around you. White males are still on top. Affirmative Action is
forcing progress, at least numerically, against the disadvantage forced upon women and minorities by
hundreds of years of a white male-dominated capitalist society. There isn’t enough to go around;
someone has to lose out occasionally, and for once, it won't necessarily be a woman or a minority.

Kathy Buek ‘00

No, really, he’s wrong

.

To the Editor: .

I was dismayed to read Jeff Burhans’ piece on the passing of retired United States Supreme Court
Louis Powell titled “A Filthy Legacy” in the September 8, 1998 issue of The Davidsonian. I found this
article to be both intellectually suspect and in poor taste.

Justice Powell (whose surname has two “Ls as opposed to the one “L” spelling used by Burhans
throughout his article), after being appointed by Richard Nixon in 1971, acted as a moderating influence
in many cases before the Court. The case for which he is most famous to, Burhans and others, Regents
for the University of California v. Bakke, struck down the use of racial quotas in the admissions process
at the University of California at Davis School of Medicine, while asserting the constitutionality of race-
conscious admissions policies, or affirmative action. In this case, Justice Powell crafted a compromise
among the other Justices, who were deadlocked four to four, and wrote the judgement of the Court.

In his article, Burhans criticizes affirmative action policies because of the resulting racial and
gender preferences given, going so far as to categorize these programs as “racist” and calling for an end
to the “complacency” of the white male. However, the.author misses that greater philosophical point
of whether our society places value in qualities and conditions other than merit, such as diversity.
Preferences for talentless conditions such as race and gender in university admissions or other venues _
are not new; they existed long before the 1978 Bakke decision codifying affirmative action. Preferences
have been and continue to be given in admissions for such talentless qualities as geographic diversity
and familial connections with the school. So why is it that only when-white males lost their hegemony
over preferences having nothing to do with merit did people begin to denounce them? Instead of
Tesorting to.demagoguery and recklessly throwing around inflammatory phrases, the author-should
begin to engage’in an honest discussion regarding the true nature of non-merit based preferences, rather
than only those which benefit women and historically discriminated-against minorities.

It requires very little courage to sully the reputation of a dead man, but nevertheless Burhans seems
to be up to the task. While probably not knowing much more about Justice Powell’s life of service
including his over fifteen years on the Supreme Court, the editorialist deems himself fit to comment on
Powell’s legacy, deeming it “filthy.” Burhans further impugns the character of Justice Powell towards
the end of his piece by putting his judicial titlé in quotations, thereby suggesting that qualifying Mr.
Powell with the term Justice is anon sequitur. As a dedicated public servant, Justice Powell deserves
more than to have his reputation trampled upon post mortem. I would posit that if anything is filthy it

is not the legacy of Justice Powell, but it is the legacy of Burhans’ ill-conceived piece of twaddle which
is truly filthy.

Sincerely,
Ben Wolff ‘00

Handbook offers sound advice, as does Moretz

To the Editor:

Perhaps Mr. Moretz had one too many Pixy-Stix while perusing the freshman face book. I disagree
with his conjecture that the advice contained therein is “run-of-the-mill.” The book opens with advice
from our president suggesting, nay, charging you to ignore at your own peril. It continues with Dave
Rosenberg’s witty article about the power of Lucky Charms and James Taylor. Besides not being the
usual fluff to my way of thinking, I also have a hard time picturing either author as “‘a trained monkey.”
(I hear Bobby prefers Snickers to bananas.) To Mr. Moretz, I would offer'a quote from page 23 by Obi
Wan-Kenobi, “You should do what you feel is right.” However, before one discounts the worthy advice
proffered by the book, realize the uniqueness and relevance each article adds to the overall salutatory

_ theme. Mr. Moretz’s fabulous advice has bettered this campus as well. Especially from the caterpillars’

point of view.

s : ROE Sincerely,
-— Kristen Taylor ‘OF
