4___THEDAVIDSONIAN

EWS

Faculty to look at fraternities

By Micuact J. Kruse
Senior Staff Writer

With sororities seemingly out of
the way, the faculty’s focus has now
shifted to fraternities.

A-seven-member committee was
created in December to evaluate the
presence and necessity of fraternities at
Davidson. The group consists of the
professors who sit on the Committee on
Campus and Religious Life (CCRL) —
History professors Jonathan Berkey and
Sally McMillen, Physics professor Rob-
ert Cline, German professor Mark
McCulloh, Mathematics professor John
Swallow, and English professor Randy
Ingram.

“The faculty voted on a motion,
and passed it, that the faculty members
on CCRL study the impact fraternities
have on the academic and social life of
the College, and to report back to the
faculty no later than September 1998,”
said Rosemary Zumwalt, an Anthro-
pology professor who also serves as
chairperson of the school’s Executive
Committee.

Economics professor David Mar-
tin originally initiated the motion to
form the committee at a faculty meet-
ing before break.

“The motion basically asks that
the faculty committee examine the im-
portance of the existing Greek system,”
said Martin, who is amember of the ten-
person Executive Committee and was
recently elected into office as one of
Davidson’s five town commissioners.

To date, the committee has not met
and has yet to even appoint a chairper-
son, but its mere formation is not unre-
lated to the recent sororities debate,

which dominated campus discussion
last semester.

Ina letter dated Dec. 1, the faculty
members on the Executive Committee
recommended to Vagt “that sororities
not be allowed to establish chapters at
Davidson College.”

The letter, signed by Religion pro-
fessor W. Trent Foley, English profes-
sor Gail Gibson, Political Science pro-
fessor Thomas Kazee, Chemistry pro-
fessor Merlyn Schuh, French professor

Lauren Yoder, Dean of Faculty Robert
Williams, Zumwalt, and Martin, stated
that:

*the establishment of sororities at
Davidson College would substantially
change the organization of student so--
cial life,

*“this change would adversely af-
fect the academic life of Davidson Col-
lege,

e“sororities are organized around
a system of social exclusivity which,
although protected by federal law, is
contrary to the educational aims of
Davidson College, and

“the present inclusive and flex-
ible system of eating houses reflects
more appropriately the values of David-
son College.”

And, as Dean of Students Tom
Shandley said, “There were many ques-
tions in the faculty meeting beyond
sororities, about Greek organizations
on campus, so this (committee to evalu-
ate fraternities) is a natural outgrowth
of those questions.”

“I think they have questions about
self-selection and how fraternities con-
tribute positively to campus life,” added
Shandley, who along with President
Bobby Vagt makes up the remainder of
the Executive Committee.

“However, it’s not something the
administration is asking them to do.”

It didn’t have to, though.

“Many faculty were not in favor of
sororities,” Martin said. “Some faculty
— and I don’t know if some is many or
not — are against the entire (Greek)
system. That’s a fair statement.”

“IT wouldn’t want to speak for the
faculty asa whole,” Berkey said. “Some
are against fraternities, but some are
defenders of the Greek system.”

MeMillen is not one of them.

“I'd rather not have any Greek
system on campus, but it’s not going to
be an easy step,” she said. “There
seems to be some sentiment among the
faculty that fraternities have been here
years and years, that there is so much
tradition, and that we shouldn't tamper
with fraternities.”

Of the top 16 national liberal arts
colleges, according to the most recent

U.S. News and World Report rankings,
only six have any kind of Greek system
whatsoever. And most of those six
have a somewhat abridged system of a
small number of historical fraternities.

Swarthmore, for example, cur-
rently supports no sororities and two
fraternities, one of which went local —
as opposed to national — in the 1960s
“because of what the Swarthmore group
considered to be discriminatory prac-
tices.” Only five. percent oft
Swarthmore’s student body belongs to
a fraternity.

At Wesleyan, there are four local
fraternities, one of which recently went
coeducational. A second is poised to do
so, and two other fraternities recently
disbanded altogether.

And at Bowdoin, as a result of an
alcohol-related death at a fraternity party
in 1996, the fraternity system is in the
process of being phased out. Because a
school task force concluded that “fra-
ternities were no longer beneficial to
Bowdoin College,” no new students
have been permitted to pledge a frater-
nity since the fall of 1996. The goal is
a fraternity-free campus by 2000.

The one notable exception is Wash-
ington & Lee, perhaps not coinciden-
tally the only school in the top 16 other
than Davidson that is located in the
South.

W &L, in Lexington, Va., has 15
national fraternities and five national
sororities, all of which have been added
since the school went coed in 1985.

So what are the chances that this
committee could start a chain of events
that would ultimately put the existence
of fraternities at Davidson in jeopardy,
thus adhering more to the standard —
little or no Greek life — set by schools
of comparable caliber and size?

“Treally don’t know,” Berkey said.
“IT couldn’t possibly speculate.”

“And a number of things could
happen,” Martin said. “It really is a
flexible thing.”

“T don’t know what kind of author-
ity this committee will have,” McMillen
added. “It’s not easy to abolish frater-
nities. Things don’t happen easily at
Davidson College.”

‘TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

WALT shows
improvement

Student involvment credited

By Ross Boyce
Staff Writer

Just over two years old, WALT
1610 AM; the student operated radio
station, is moving forward under. the
direction of Matthew Staton and his
crew of dedicated disc-jockeys. While
in the past the radio station has
struggled to find a loyal audience, it
renewed its efforts this year to attract
listeners.

“We've really worked hard this
year with the freshman class,” Staton
said of WALT’s promotions, which
have included campus-wide flyers and
an appearance at orientation. As a
result of these endeavors, student in-
volvement is at a record level; there
are currently over 90 DJs, approxi-
mately 5.6 percent of the student popu-
lation.

Despite the success, Staton has
loftier aspirations for the station. “My
eventual dream for WALT is to make
it FM,” he said. “If the kids want it
enough, anything can happen.”

' Yet there has not been over-
whelming support for the programs
offered by the station. Staton believes
that students simply do not expose
themselves to the variety of music that
WALT plays throughout the day.:

Instead, students are tuning in to
the major Charlotte stations, which,
ironically, build their play-lists from
bands that were labeled college music
just a decade ago. “WALT has music
you're not going to find anywhere
else,” says Staton of the diversity of
folk, jazz, blues, rock, and punk that
WALT offers.

When asked about the absence of
talk-radio, Staton indicated a strong
desire for a student-hosted show. He

indicated that one of the most popular
shows of the past, “Jive-Talking,” was
a talk show, but at this time no one has
volunteered.

While the number of DJs has
increased, there are still time slots
available, especially in the morning.
Students are welcome to stop by the
WALT office, now located in Johnston
Gym, and inquire about a show. There
is little time commitment outside the
regularly scheduled hours, and learn-
ing how to operate the machines only
takes about ten minutes. Staton ex-
pressed a special interest in faculty’
involvement. “We would really like
some staff on the radio,” he said. “I
think that the idea of waking up to your
professor just rocks my world.”

In spite of the progress WALT
has made so far this year, the gradua-
tion of most of the board members
threatens the radio station's continued
success. Inall likelihood, the respon-
sibility of guiding WALT will pass
into’new, inexperienced hands. Staton
wants to make sure that Davidson ra-
dio does not fade away. In fact, he
commented that he would be disap-
pointed if WALT was nota FM station
in ten years.

The future of the radio station is
uncertain at this time; it is difficult to
attract listeners without the promise of
high-quality sound and flashy bill-
boards.

Music is important to this cam-
pus because, as Staton says, “music is
an important part of pop-culture.
People enjoy music.“ And like any
other group on campus, WALT needs
the support of the students. WDAV
89.9 FM used to be a student-operated
station, and there is no reason WALT

cannot reach the same standards.

Black Student Coalition

(since last April)

Corresponding Secretary: Phil Rawlings

Recording Secretary: Christian Baker

Purser: Bill Monroe

Sergeant-At-Arms: Russell Bailey

Rusk

President: Wes Hart
Vice President: Shakim Lane
Secretary: Bridgette Green
Treasurer: Shivania Singleton
Historian/House Manager: Joy Sparks, Alice Swanson
Judicial Board Representative: Sequitha Crowder
~PCE Representative: Ronald-Williams-—

Service Chair: Charlie Shaw

Social Chairs: Clatonia Bowler, LaCrystal Jackson

Historian: Erich Hickey
Judicial Board Representative: Wes Thornton
Marshall: Jason Cody
Parliamentarian: Scott Briggs

PCC Representative: Bo Bickerstaff

Sergeant-At-Arms: William Moretz
Service Chair:~ Dave Kaul

Social Chairs: Pete Klein, Matt Perny

President: Emily Eagan
Vice Presidents: Lindsay Patterson, Julie Summersgill
Secretary; Courtney Walker
Treasurer: Megan O’Brien
Historian: Megan Robb
House Managers: Ginny Quis, Gina Lawrance
Kitchen Managers: Shana Byers, Mary Perrin Anderson
Service Chairs: Katherine Bailey, Melissa Otis
Social Chairs: Amy Lamoureux, Lindsay Cohen
(Judicial Board, PCC, and SGA Representatives and Members-At-Large will be elected tonight.

Members

i
|

. Kappa Sigma
Connor

arc

President: Bradley Oliver
Vice President: Drew Lindsey
Secretary: Jon Weed
Treasurer: Sam Lentz
Historian: Coleman Brooks
House Managers: Miles Cox, Alex Balbir
Judicial Board Representative: Chase Coffey
Kitchen Manager; Matt King
PCC Representative: Conner Eldrige
Pledge Educator: Cooper Dean
Service Chairs: Jeff Middlestat, Cam Houser
Social Chairs: Howie Cockrill, Jon Palma

President: Ellen Runnels
Vice Presidents: Jessica Bigazzi, Sarah Davis, Anne Stancil
(elected last fall)
Secretary: Katie Miltich
Treasurer: Karin Davis
Historian: Lee Robinson
House Managers: Darisse Bowden, Amy Grizzle
Judicial Board Representative: Elizabeth Wade
Kitchen Managers: Shauna Griffin, Sara Rothermel
Members-At-Large: Erin Steffensmeire ‘98, Beth Dewitt ‘99,
. Kate Scibal ‘00
PCC Representatives:, Ellen Runnels, Karin Davis, Marla Frazier
Service Chairs: Erin Dainty, Kim Jessup
SGA Representatives: Ana Rosa Garcia de la Torre, Tory Talbot
Social Chairs: Alex Obregon, Tory Talbot
(Two Freshmen Representatives and a Freshman Member-At-Large will be elected tonight.)

pe suntawanse{

Sigma Phi Epsilon

President: Jason McMullan
Vice President: Seth Alley
Vice President of Development: — Patrick Fernando
Vice President of Finance: Mauricio Sauma
Secretary: Stuart Clemens .
Alumni Secretary: Hunter Hopkins
Chaplain: Matt Fuller
House and Grounds Manager: Ed Tanner
IMAC Representative: Chuck Haines
Judicial Board Representative: Andrew Waddell
Kitchen Manager: Peter Hoffman
PCC Representative: Aaron Rice
Pledge Educator: Patrick Fernando
Service Chair; Doug Penhallegon
SGA Representative:: Thomas McElveen
Social Chair: Greg McCullough

Phi Delta Theta

President: Brian Langley
Vice President: Ty Epp
Secretary: Eric Bowers
Treasurer: Bill Stoops

Social Chair: Jeff Kessler

Warden: Wes Jones

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

President;. Tom Ting
Vice President: Merritt Abney
Secretary: Ted Penick
Treasurer: ‘McLean Jenkins
Historian: David Bashford
Food Manager: Ryan Gist
House Managers: Jason Cockerill, Gray Broughton
Judicial Board Representative: Brian Dean
PCC Representative: Alan Hyder
Pledge Educator: Ben Smith
Service Chair: Scott Reeder
SGA Representative: Shreve Ariail
Social Chair: Bennett Thompson

Warner Hall

Phi Gamma Delta

(since last April) President: Ann Strauser

Vice Presidents; Caro Thomas, Ashley Houston
Secretary: Campbell Goodloe
Treasurer: Beth Cresswell
Historians: Liz Hackman, Lori Thompson
House Managers: Julie Chevalier, Nicole Kanaar
Judicial Board Representative: Polly Beth Proctor
Kitchen Managers: Melanie Majure, Chesley Garrett
Members-At-Large: Allison Coble ‘98, Whitney Kreb ‘99,
Vanessa Hartley ‘00
PCC Representative: Thirza Sayers
Scholarship: Ann Hosch, Marian Lucius
Service Chairs; Grayson Carter, Erin Woodall
SGA Representatives: Liz Boehmler, Lori Thompson
Social Chairs; Kate McKnight, Susanne Tranguch

President: Chris Thunberg
Treasurer: Asa Hercules
Corresponding Secretary: Jon Williams
Recording Secretary:. Fahd Gul
Historian: Will White

‘Pi Kappa Alpha

President: James Baird
Vice President: Roger Mills
’ Secretary: Graham Williams
Treasurer: Aaron Watt

Kappa Alpha

President: Blake Clifton
Vice President: Tyler Richmond

