U

= a
E nae

S

‘Cats End Season Strong, Upset Villanova

BY BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

After dropping five straight decisions, the
women’s lacrosse team looked to end their season
on a positive note this past week.

T he
‘Cats had been
struggling offen-
sively of late,
managing only
twenty goals in
their last three
games. On Thurs-
day afternoon,
Senior Day, the

ildcats _ 14
illanova. 9

iBuckn ell 12 ‘Cats exploded for
a season high
|Wildcats bd nineteen goals

against Duquesne.
It was a very exciting contest as the two teams
combined for the most goals scored in a women’s
college lacrosse game this year. It was a wild affair
in which neither. teams’ attack never let up. In the
end, it was Davidson who was left standing with a
19-18 victory.

On Thursday, Davidson faced a very pesky
opponent in the Dukes of Duquesne. While the
‘Cats rarely trailed, they were never able to run
away with the game. The Dukes often seemed
prime to take the lead, but the ‘Cats always man-
aged to answer with a goal.

While it was Senior Day at Richardson Field,
it was just as much Amanda Fleck Day. Against
Duquesne, Fleck became the all-time points leader
in Davidson history. She had her best game of the
season, scoring eight points on five goals and three

assists. She entered the game tied with Sarah
Hogan (1994-97) who had 132 points. By the end
of the day, she had broken another one of Hogan’s
records. With her third goal of the game, she
owned the record for most goals in a career. She
ended the day with 103.

The game started off normal enough as both
teams were tied at five with ten minutes remaining
in the half. Then the fireworks began as the two
teams scored a combined thirteen goals in just over
ten minutes. While Duquesne grabbed a lead at 9-
6, the ‘Cats rallied to hold a 12-11 halftime lead.

In the second half, the game took a slower
pace. After Duquesne tied it up two minutes into
the half, Davidson scored the next three unan-
swered. At the 26:11 mark, a wide-open Brooke
Wheeler scored the first goal of her collegiate
career.

Once again, the ten minute mark led to a wild

finish. With the score tied at sixteen, the Duquesne
goalie fouled Fleck. As a result, she was given a
penalty shot on an empty net. Her goal at the 5:50
mark put Davidson up by one.
« Duquesne would not go away as’ Becky
Jenkins scored her third goal of the game at the
3:22 mark. Jenkins scored on a rebound after
Davidson goalie Lisa Benjamin stopped a very
tough shot.

It appeared Davidson would take the lead for
good when Lauren Kenchington scored with just
under two minutes to go. Still, Duquesne’s Jenkins
wasn’t done yet as she scored again.

With the score knotted at eighteen, the hero-""
ics would be let up to Davidson’s Kara Barker.
Barker, a sophomore midfielder, had quietly been

see Lacrosse on page 15

Bill Gid
@ The Wildcats charge the net in a match against Drexel earlier in the

year. The team finished off its season this past weekend with an upset
win over a tough Villanova squad and a loss to Bucknell.

Golfers tie for fourth in SoCon,
Lina third in individual scores

By Bratron HOLMES

Sports Editor

The golf team’s expectations going into the
Southern Conference Torumnament were fair. The
results were much better.

In five tournaments this spring, Davidson
had faced Southern Conference teams nine times,
and only outshot their conference opponent on one
of those nine occasions. That one victory was over
the Mountaineers of Appalachian State in the
Lonnie D. Small Intercollegiate, the last tourna-
ment before the Conference tournament. In that
outing, the team finished 28 strokes ahead of the
Mountaineers, but still was 14 strokes behind
UNC-Greensboro.

Davidson met UNCG four times this spring.
In those meetings the Spartans outshot the Wild-
cats by an average of 17 strokes. :

The team faced UT-Chattanooga in two tour-
naments and also met The Citadel and Wofford
once each. With the exception of Appalachian,
Davidson did not outplay a Southern Conference
squad all spring.

Until now.

Eleven teams competed in the Southern Con-
ference Tournament in Spartanburg. Four of them
had defeated Davidson earlier in the spring. Two
others — East Tennessee State and Furman — were
nationally ranked.

The Wildcat squad shot 299 in the first of the ©

three rounds in the tournament, which placed
Davidson in sixth. Predictably, Jason Lina led the
way by shooting 71 to finish one under after the
first round. The ‘Cats were far from the lead, but
had outshot two of the teams to which they had

fallen earlier— The Citadel and UNCG.

Any hopes for a’rise in the standings seemed
to disappear in the next round as Davidson shot
306 for the round. The team had the third worst
score of the round, outshooting only SoCon cellar-
dwellers Western Carolina and VMI.

Three of the five Davidson golfers posted
worse scores than they had in the first round. Only
one, Austin Ziegler, improved his score. After
shooting a dismal 86 in the first round, Ziegler
improved to 76 in the second round, which was the
best score for Davidson in the round.

The outlook was. anything but promising as
the third and final round began. Frontrunners
ETSU, Furman, and Wofford had effectively
clinched the top three spots. UTC, UNCG, and
Georgia Southern were in aclose contest for fourth
and were all ahead of Davidson.

If they were to finish above seventh, the
Wildcat golfers needed to post an incredible third
round. So, that’s just what they did.

In around that was plagued with bad weather
conditions, the squad shot 296, the best score of
the day. No other team shot better than 300.
UNCG, with 303 on the day, was the closest team
to Davidson.

Lina once again lead the way, shooting 70 to
finish one over for the tournament. Four of the
Davidson golfers improved their scored from the
second round, including Ziegler, who was the only
Wildcat to improve his score in each round.

Davidson jumped to the front of the race for
fourth place. The top three places were out of
reach after the second round. A cynic may have

See Golf on page 14

UNGG 7, Wildcats 1
Wildcats 7, UNCG 5
UNGG 5, Wildcats 2

Baseball

VMI 11, Wildcats 0
Wildcats 9, VMI7
VMI 10, Wildcats 4

Golt

Tied for fourth at Southern C Te
Men’s Tennis
Second at South
Women’s Tennis
Furman 5, Wildcats 2 in SoCon Tournament semifinals
Women’s Track & Field

Sixth of eighit teams at SoCon Tournament

Confe T

Baseball conerk p. 13

Davidson Crew team is turning

_ heads, p. 15

Rosenberg on, umm... well, just
read it yourself, p. 14

Track teams return from SoCon

~ UNCGandGSU finished

Men’s Tennis Loses in title match;
Three ‘Cats Receive SoCon Honors

ANDREW FULFORD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats gave a strong run this weekend
at the Southern Conference Tennis Tournament
held this weekend at Furman’s Minor Mickel
Tennis Center but came up short in the finals,
losing to UT-Chattanooga 4-1.

The ‘Cats started off the tournament with a
close 4-3 win against UNC Greensboro in the
quarterfinals on Friday.

’ Jon Pastel started off the singles run with a 5-
7, 6-1, 6-3 victory in the #1 seed. Freshman Whit
Hansen and junior Scott Briggs also won at #5 and
#6 matches as well.

The match was tied at 3-3 after singles going
into the doubles matches where Davidson was
able to capture 2 of the 3 to win the point and the
overall victory. The match was sealed when Pastel
and Briggs won #2, 8-2, and Tyler Epp and Jeff
Tonidandel won the #3 seed, 8-3.

On Saturday the ‘Cats faced regular season
champion Furman. After losing the #1 and #2
singles matches, the fourth seeded Wildcats swept
the remaining four singles matches to defeat the
Palandins. Tonidandel won #3 in three sets, 6-3,
2-6, 62. Sophomore Alex Okulski won in straight
sets 6-3, 7-5 at the 4 seed. #5 seed Hansen took
three sets to beat his opponent 6-1, 4-6, 6-4, Briggs
made short work of his match, winning straight
sets, 7-6, 6-3.

The doubles matches were not played be-
cause the ‘Cats had already wrapped up the 4
points needed for the victory.

Wildcats went into Sunday’s matchup with
UTC feeling prey es confident. il had not ements

JASON LINA | Baseball Baseball vs. ETSU
Golf * Senior Tuesday @ UNC-Chapel Hill (6:00) Saturday ¢ 12:00
Linaled the Wildcatstoa | Wednesday @ UNC-Charlotte (6:00) Sunday ¢ 1:00

tie for fourth place at the
Southern Conference
Tournament as he bird-
ied the last three holes of

0 te Sunday vs, East Tennessee
his college career.

State (1:00)

Saturday vs. East Tennessee State
(Doubleheader) (12:00)

Wildcats 19, Duquesne 18

Men’s Track & Field championships, p. 14
a " Lacrosse loses two over Easter
Ohio State 16, Wildcats 7 Wildcats 14, Villanova 9

Vanderbilt 18, Wildcats 4 — Bucknell 12, Wildcats 8 break, p. 15

within two strokes of Davidson, and without Lina’s
string of birdies the team would have finished
seventh, Of Lina’s performance, teamate Dave

their best, but still made up for the regular season
loss to Furman. Unfortunately, the Championship
would once again allude the “Cats fof, the second
year in a row.

The Mocs clinched the title by winning the
doubles point and numbers 2, 3, and 4 seeds. The
other singles matches were suspended because
UTC had already wrapped up the necessary points.
Pastel finished out his outstanding Davidson ca-
reer a winner in straight sets, 6-3, 6-4. He and Scott
Briggs were the only team to manage a doubles
win 9-7,

Earlier in the week the 1998 Southern Con-
ference Men’s Tennis AllConference Team was
announced with three Wildcats receiving honors.
Senior Jon Pastel made the singles team, and
senior Ted Kaplan and junior Judson Sutherland
were awarded for their superior season playing #1
doubles. In.addition, Pastel also won the Southern
Conference Sportsmanship Award.

The. Wildcats finished the season with an
overall record of 18-9 and a conference mark of 7-
2, placing the ‘Cats third behind Furman and
Chattanooga.

While: Davidson came into the season with
high hopes of finishing out the great careers: of
seniors Pastel, Kaplan, and Tonidandel with a
conference championship, it was just not meant to
be.

Over their four years of tennis, they amassed
a récord of 55-38 and a .587 winning percentage.
They taught the team how to win and to have a
good time doing it.

The ‘Cats will really miss their leadership
next year. Jon, Ted, and Jeff, I speak for all the fans
when I say “thanks.”

The baseball team can clinch
a playoff spot with a good
performance this weekend against
Besides, it’s the only
home sports event this week.
Exams haven't started yet.

the Bucs.

Alexander said simply, “He's a stud.” ‘
