iding in acarrel in the library’s
Hees rushing to Dana for
my weekly lab session, and
even spending a social night down on
the court: with all these distractions I
rarely take time to just think. However,

reading Annie Dillard’s writing in what

little spare time I’ve allotted has al-
lowed me to reflect on the innocence of
youth — reminding me of the simple
pleasures in life while developing an
excitement for the future.

One of her books, in particular,
has become a source of strength and
inspiration. Although much of Dillard’ s
work describes her struggles, dreams,
and observations, the profound impli-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reading Dillard brings

cations underneath the simplicity of this
author’s writing have guided me fur-
ther down the path of discovering who
7 am and who J want to be.

The concept of money is difficult
for children to understand, since their
fathers are their “only imaginable source
of income” (Dillard). Finding a half-
buried dime in an alley (as did Dillard
inher book “An American Childhood”)
leaves a child believing that great trea-
sures await them in the world.

I don’t recall the first coin I ever
found, but I do remember the burning
desire for more that ultimately resulted.
From that moment on, I had a mission.
My young, eager eyes were always on
the lookout for any sign that might
reveal hidden riches. I searched in
“forsaken place(s) far removed from
the ordinary comings and goings of
people who earned salaries in the light”
(Dillard). ,

It was behind grocery store aisles
where dust rested like a thick rug, or

underneath green lopsided park benches
that I made the most valuable discover-
ies.
Occasionally, I happened upon a
weathered penny or dime dropped on
the sidewalk by some unlucky person
—probably a grown-up. I would pounce
on the filthy coin and sing, “We’re in
the money; we’re in the money.” Then,
with the coin secured between my hot,
sweaty sock and Velcro shoe, I would
run home to show Mom.

The “big money,” however, lay in
public telephone coin returns. When I

‘spotted a gas ‘station pay phone or a

series of empty booths at the mall, I
would stick two grubby fingers behind
the sliding metal door on each one.
These probings were often fruitless, but
when I did retrieve a cold, smooth coin,
it was substantial — usually a quarter,
plus maybe a nickel and dime. After
such findings, I beamed triumphantly.

No doubt I delighted in collecting
pennies, nickels, and dimes, but I fanta-

sized unearthing a chest glutted with
sparkling gems and fat gold chunks.
When I was seven and she was eight,
my tree-climbing, dog-teasing, maca-
roni-and-cheese-scarfing best friend
Kami and I were engaged in “detective
work” in a cluster of fragrant lilac
bushes.

During this secret investigation,
we stumbled upon a rusted metal stake
protruding from the hard, dry soil. It
was brilliantly concealed by the lilac’s
green foliage — the work of a desperate
pirate forced to abandon his treasure,
we concluded. Maybe this patched-eye
villain had never returned to collect his
loot. We wasted no time.

“Kami, go get your grandpa’s
shovel,” I ordered. “I'll run home and
grab a hoe.”

As I bounded away in the opposite
direction, I heard Kami yell fervently,
“Don’t tell anyone. This is top secret.”

I don’t know how many hours we
shoveled that day. Our efforts pro-

PPT y.

duced nothing but cracked, blistered
hands and dirt-packed fingernails, but
we didn’t lose hope. For months after
that, we confidently dug deep craters in
the firm ground, searching

It wasn’t until years later that
Kami’s grandma explained that the rod
was a boundary marker separating her
yard from the neighbor’s. But it didn’t
matter.

Looking back, my fixation wasn’t
about amassing great fortunes; “that I
never found another old coin...didn’t
matter at all” (Dillard). What kept me
shoveling after unearthing the first filthy
penny was that heart-pounding, hair-
on-the-back-of-your-neckraising antici-
pation.

That’s what I craved — anticipa-
tion and adventure. I was young, curi-
ous, and immersed in the exciting mys-
tery of money and all “adult things”.
Even at age seven, I knew that great
treasures awaited me in the world. All
I had to do was dig.

Home Is not quite so sweet anymore

Ah, home sweet home. It’s not quite like I

remembered it. Driven by necessity (i.e., the
imminent demise of my car), I returned home to
Georgia for a weekend, only to be reminded of the
many reasons to stay here at Davidson. For those

of you who live too far away to even think about
going home for the weekend, your situation may
be better than you think.

Myth #1: Mom and Dad suffer from the
“Empty Nest Syndrome.” Returning home from
Davidson, are you shocked to find that your par-
ents actually have lives without you? Though it
may be crushing at first to find that they have not
spent every passing moment pining for your re-
turn, this reaction should be expected. In fact, they

may secretly (or not so secretly) have been waiting
for your departure for years.

When I arrived home for the first time during
my freshman year, I was a bit surprised to find my
room filled with exercise equipment. “As soon as

you move your furniture out,” my mother in-
formed me, “this will be our new exercise and
multi-media room.” I glanced out the window,
half expecting the presence of a U-haul truck in
the driveway.

“Oh,” Mom added a bit too eagerly, “take all

of the cats with you, too.”

Myth #2: You will be greeted with home-
cooked meals. If your parents are anything like
mine, much of your time at home is spent scaveng-
ing for anything remotely edible. Do not mistake
me fora picky eater; I’m not. Case in point: winter
break. I entered my empty house following a long
week of exams and a somewhat shorter drive to
Georgia.

Energized by my temporary reprieve from
exams, I decided to cook dinner for my hard-

working parents. The only things T found in the
fridge, however, were a half-eaten turkey (likely
left over from Thanksgiving) and some assorted
sauces of unknown origin. Only a bit daunted, I
checked the cabinets. A lonely can of tomato soup
stared back at me.

This was not an isolated incident. My mother
and father loath grocery shopping with a curious
passion and literally spend weeks seeing who can
last the longest without buying food.

I firmly believe that my mother would rather
be charged by a wild hippo than set foot in Harris
Teeter. When Mom and Dad are truly successful,
they can make do for six or seven weeks until my
next visit.

Myth #3: Your parents will respect your new-
found freedom. This is the biggie. Although it is
perfectly obvious that you are capable of caring for
yourself, your belongings, and your work on a
day-to-day basis for the vast majority of the year,
as soon as you set foot in the same house with your
parents, the infamous “under my roof” rule comes

back into play. The key word here is nag.

“Aren’t exams coming up?” they may ask
you as you walk out the door with friends or recline
on the sofa glued to “South Park.”

“Don’t you have some reading to do? I just
don’t remember having this much free time in
college.” Arguing with parents over time manage-
mentis futile. Establishing the illusion of studying
is the primary solution. I do take my books home,
and sometimes, as a compromise, they watch TV
with me,

So went my brief (thankfully) 36 hours of
home life. Sunday morning I slid out of bed,
stumbled over the rowing machine and some free
weights on the way to my closet, scavenged for
food, went to the grocery store, and jump-started
my car (for the sixth time.in two days) to transport
it to the dealership.

Finally, only three hours after my designated
departure time, I pulled out of the driveway in my
mother’s car, my head dancing with alternatives to
a spring break at home.

In pursuit of the perfect roommate

Breaking it down

6G 0, who’s going to be your
roommate next year?”

The procedure is so simple for

You fill out the

entering freshmen.

preference forms, take the Myers-
Briggs, and in Davidson-time you even-
tually receive a partial name and an
address. Then, like the impatient, tech-
nology-minded students we are, we get
onthe Internet and search. With crossed
fingers we look for the full name and
number of the person we will spend the
next year sleeping across from in a
closet-sized room.

But this is not a bad thing.

Finding out who your roommate is
puts the first brick in what soon will turn

out to be Belk, or Rich, or Little, or
Cannon, .or Watts — your freshman
hall, my freshman hall.

The first awkward — or not so

‘awkward — conversation is your first

memory, beyond that of a paper trail
extending down I-77 as far as the eye
can see. The two of you agree, very
seriously with untouched freshman
gravity, on who is to bring what to the
room you both have yet to see.

This time around the stakes are
different. A fluorescent-yellow packet
instructs us in detail — the second-

semester freshmen, sophomores, and °

juniors — on what we can and cannot
do, what will help us get the room or
apartment we want. The process is less
personal, less exciting, and more un-
known than anything we might have
been afraid of before freshman year.
The room “lottery” provides only
part of the unknown. The next ques-
tion, besides that concerning the little
number next to yourname, is, of course,

“Who is my roommate going to be next
year?”

Let the bartering and the logistical
nightmares begin.

“Well, if Sally rooms with Kim,

then Jenny has to room with Samantha,
and Jill still doesn’t have anyone to live
with.” (If you are a guy, substitute male
names.)

In vain attempts at satisfying ev-
eryone on a freshman hall, not all goes
according to plan. Some people get
included, while others are excluded sim-
ply by chance. Just like room assign-
ments, roommate “selection” isn’t al-
ways fair to those who do not get an
early start. In addition, there is no
fluorescent-covered packet filled with
dates each student must adhere to. There
is no code of ethics. That’s just the way
it is — and another thing I wish I had
known ahead of time.

But yes, fortunately I do have a
roommate for next year. Now we just
need a room.

like to dance. It is one of my
[eve things to do. Not only do
I like to dance in my room by
myself to-artists such as-Def Leopard
and Bon Jovi, but I also like to shake
my groove with my friends on occa-
sion. The only time that I am able to

exercise this endeavor at Davidson
College is at parties that are sponsored
by the various fraternities and eating
houses on campus. These parties —
which are interpreted by some as being
drunken messes — are actually valu-
able hours for me and my dancing

Court good for dancing

‘space for people to maneuver comfort-

aspirations.

The parties on Patterson Court
provide an ample amount of dance
floor which enable me to “cut the rug”
with my comrades and lady friends.

I would hold dance parties in my
room, but there just wouldn’t be enough

ably on the dance floor with the pro-
vided space.

Some of my. friends like to break
dance, and in order to perform moves
such as the windmill and worm, a fair
amount of space is needed. This much-
needed space is provided at the houses
on Patterson Court.

The parties on Patterson Court
allow me to dance with my friends
while providing us with enough space
to optimize on our moves and be the
best dancers we possibly can.

HAVE AN OPINION. WRITE IT DOWN.

Give it to Erin (x6306). -

