SPORTS.

‘THE DA VIDSONIAN

RIDE IT ALL NIGHT LONG
Vamonos
an
7pm - | am

By Davip MoncurE
Staff Writer

The girl’s volleyball team had a tough week-
end at the North Carolina State tournament this
past Friday and Saturday, winning only one of
their three matches. The girls continued to play
well as a team though. They faced three tough

' Opponents in the tournament, Winthrop, East Caro-
lina University, and North Carolina State.

The highlight of the tournament was the ECU
match, in which the women were easily victorious
in three. games, with scores of 15-11, 16-14, and
15-13. Erica Schwartz, a freshman setter, really
stepped up her play to help ensure a Wildcat
victory. She played remarkably well given the
situation she was put into, having moved into the
Starting lineup because of an injury, Freshman
Jennifer Ortega commented that the “girls’ de-
fense played really well versus a strong team,” and
this keyed the victory.

Even though the outcomes of the other two
matches were less favorable, head coach Lisa
Marston described it as “a learning experience.”

Thurs.

call us @ 564-7135 and we will
pick you up. Remember last year

(not you, freshmen) when it cost
$1? Well, now it’s FREE!!!

Sat.

FOR KIDS OF ALL AGES!
AT
THE SODA SHOP :

104 South Main Street, Davidson
Open 7 Days SatThur &8 Fri 89

Shirley Temple - Slushie - Smoothie

Black Jack - Brown Cow - Big O

Hot Dog - Hamburger - Hoagie

THE FEW.
THE PROUD.
THE DSS TEAM.

Write for us.

(No dress code, no train-
ing required.)

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, I

Volleyball takes one of three
in tournament at N.C. State

The girls were defeated by Winthrop by game
scores of 5-15, 8-15, 15-10, and 14-16, and later by
North Carolina State by game scores of 13-15, 15-
6, 2-15, and 1-15. As Coach Marston described it,
“this was their first time away from home, so there
is a potential to win.” As the season progresses,
the women will become more experienced in dif-
ferent situations, hopefully always peome! fora
favorable Wildcat outcome.

The tournament was an overall good experi-
ence for the team and provided many “moments of
brilliance,” said Coach Marston. Janet Duncan, a
senior middle blocker, was named to the all tour-
nament team because of her consistent, incredible
play throughout all three games. As Jennifer
Ortega put it, “the tournament consisted of good
competition to get us ready for the first conference
game.”

The women, now with a record of 5 wins, 3
loses, open the conference versus UNC Greens-
boro Tuesday night at 7 p.m. here at the Baker
Sports Complex. Their next home game is Sunday
at 2 p.m. versus East Tennessee State.

Football loses season
opener at Jacksonville

By ALIson KaLett

Citrus Cooler -

Cherry Cimeade

Corn Dog - Chicken Finger

Pita Pizza - Potato Skin

Grilled Cheese - Grinder

Sweet Potato Fries 4
Shake - Soda

AND YOU! |

yards.

September 26 against Emory & Henry.

Sports Editor

After a seven-hour trek to Jacksonville, Florida this past weekend, the Wildcats lost their
» V first game of the regular season.to Jacksonville University by a score of 19-14.

Under the leadership of quarterback Gary Cooper (12-17, 212 yards, 2 TD), the JU
\» Dolphins broke out to a 10-0 lead in the second quarter. Davidson answered with an 8-yard
touchdown reception by sophomore Corey Crawford. (4 receptions, 47 yards).

Early in the fourth quarter, Davidson mounted a go-ahead drive that spanned 80 yards
Y in only four plays. Davidson quarterback Tom Dugan sparked the drive with a 73-yard run
from scrimmage, and finished it off with a 2-yard touchdown run to give the ‘Cats a 14-13
lead with 11:04 remaining in the game.

, The Dolphins responded by driving sixty-five yards downfield, consuming over six
minutes of clock time, to take a 19-14 lead. Davidson turned the ball over on the last
possession, with an interception to Jacksonville’s free safety Carl Toop.

Asa team, the Wildcats ran the ball well, accumulating 252 yards on 54 carries. Dugan
led the team with 118 yards on 16 carries. Tailback Bryan Kern added 65 yards on 8 carries
while fullback Eric Ferguson amassed 47 yards on 19 carries. The Dolphin defense, though,
was able to hold Davidson to 76 yards in the air, while their own Gary Cooper threw for 212

The game was the first in history for the program at Jacksonville University, a private
liberal arts university with an undergraduate population of a little over 1850. Davidson plays
next Saturday at the University of the South before returning home for their home opener on
