THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kilburn twins ri

By STEPHEN CEFALU
- Guest Writer

For Jeremy and Derek Kilburn,
revisiting the hallowed fields of their
glofied past involves only a fifteen
minute drive down Route 115 to North
Mecklenburg High School in
Huntersville. The freshman twin broth-
ers have logged significant playing time
in this, their debut season with the
Davidson Wildcat soccer team, and
Richardson Field crowds have thus far
been thoroughly impressed. With the
Kilburns in residence for the next four
years, the future indeed looks bright for
Davidson soccer.

Marc Calderone, Derek and
Jeremy’s varsity soccer coach at North
Mecklenburg High School, describes
the twins as “‘acoach’s dream.” “‘They’re
the most consistent players I ever
coached,” says Calderone. ‘They al-
ways gave 150% and never really hada
bad game.” Calderone calls the
Kilburns’ style of play extremely ag-
gressive, yet fair and clean. “I knew
they were special players the first mo-
ment I set eyes on them,” states
Calderone. “They’re great leaders, re-

ally amazing kids. It takes a lot to beat ~

them.”
In their senior year at North Meck,

Jeremy and Derek both excelled tre-
mendously on the soccer field. Jeremy
took home 2’nd team All-State honors
and was named Mega 7 conference
Player of the Year. Derek collected
AllConference and 2’nd team All-Re-
gion accolades despite having to sit out
the first part of the year with an injury.
At year’s end, both players were se-
lected to compete in the prestigious
North Carolina East-West All-Star
game.

Derek and Jeremy also performed
superbly in the classroom while they
were at North Meck. At Davidson, the
ambitious young scholar-athletes are
currently pursuing pre-med studies.
“Academics here are challenging,” says
Jeremy. “That’s a big reason why we
came.” Adds Derek, “Davidson has a
real friendly, worry-free feel to it. The
small campus is nice.”

Besides Davidson, the Kilburns
also entertained offers from Brown,
Holy Cross, and UNC Chapel Hill. In
the end, they decided Davidson best fit
their needs. The boys insist they weren’t
recruited as a twin package, but are
nonetheless very pleased to be playing
at the same school together.

“It’s really a blessing that they’re
at Davidson,” says Marc Calderone.

“The guys will be well taken care of
there.” Already on more than one.occa-
sion this season, members of
Calderone’s current North Meck var-
sity soccer squad have peppered the
stands. of Richardson Field in order to
glimpse Jeremy and Derek live in ac-
tion. “To see their former teammates
competing at the Division I college level
against top national programs is just
great for our kids,” insists Calderone.
“They all really look up to Derek and
Jeremy, and, in them, see something to
aspire to. It’s wonderful for the whole
community.”

How quickly and smoothly the
Kilburns are able to complete the tran-
sition from high school to college level
performance will factor significantly
into the level of success they achieve at
Davidson. Early indications are all
very promising. Davidson’s head men’s
soccer coach Charlie Slagle says of the
Kilburns, “I definitely see them making
a grand contribution to us over the next
four years. They are very aggressive,
hard-nosed athletes. The more they
learn, the better they will become.”

The Kilburns note that they’ ve
observed thus far no easy games and
very few weaknesses among their op-
ponents. “Efficient skill work at this

pen to first taste of collegiate SC c

level is something taken for granted by
coaches,” say the twins. “Players take
more responsibility upon themselves to
be in top form than they. did in high
school.” The Kilburns’ superior work
ethic is what they believe will set them
apart over the years to come.

Both Calderone and Slagle predict
the Kilburns will progressively mature,
polish their games, and become accom-

plished players by thier junior and se-
nior seasons at Davidson, if not earlier.
“Soccer is faster and more physical in
college,” states Marc Calderone. “It
requires you to think quicker and be a
smarter player. They’lt develop better
tactical sense and decision making
through more game experience. Physi-
cally, they’re already. where they need
to be. They were there two years ago.”

Women’s soccer team sets record for consecutive wins

By ALIson KALETT
Sports Editor

With their 1-0 triumph over South-
ern Conference rival Wofford College
last Wednesday the Davidson women’s
soccer team(5-7, 3-3) earned their fifth
consecutive victory, setting a college
record for consecutive single season
wins. Last week, the ‘cats reeled off
four straight victories over Morehead
St., Campbell, Appalachian St., and the
College of Charleston.

The game against Wofford(5-5,

2-2) was extremely close throughout.
The Wildcats scored the game’s lone
goal six minutes into the

(Freshman Carolyn Stumpf leads the
team with 4 goals and 10 points). Dye
leads the Wildcats in shots

contest when forward

on goal with 21.

Ginny Dye, on an assist Wildcats 1 The next 84 min-
from fellow junior Amy Wofford ©} utes of the contest were all
Balsinger, powered the about defense. The Wild-
ball past Wofford goal Wildcats O} cats never surrendered a
keeper Alison Kinsler. The | Richmond . 2] goal to their opponents,
goal was Dye’sthirdofthe — * while Wildcat keepers
season and 18th of her ca- | Wildcats 4 | Winnie Corrigan and
reer. She is currently sec- UNCG 4 Chesley Garrett shared the
ond on the team in both

goals scored,3, and overall points, 8.

goal tending duties earning
one and two saves respectively.

Bowes HOLLOWELL CONNER & CO.

FIRST UNION CAPITAL MARKETS GROLIP

Bow res HOLLOWELL CONNER & CO. IS THE PREMIER PROVIDER OF MERCER
AND ACQUISITION AND PRIVATE FINANCE EXPERTISE TO THE MIDDLE
MARKET. OUR CLIENTS INCLUDE PRIVATE EQUITY CROUPS
AND DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATIONS.

WE OFFER A TWO-YEAR ANALYST PROCRAM OPEN TO
MOTIVATED UNDERCRADUATES WHO HAVE A
DEMONSTRATED RECORD OF

ACCOMPLISHMENT.

JOIN US FOR A COMPANY PRESENTATION AND RECEPTION,

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 7:00 PM
CARNEGIE GUEST HOUSE, THE DRAWING ROOM

Resume Drop DATE

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 1998

FOR
On Campus INTERVIEWS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1998

IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO ATTEND THE PRESENTATION, BUT WOULD LIKE TO LEARN MORE ABOUT
Bowes Howowe, Conner & CO. Peast SE OUR COMPANY BROCHURES AT THE
Ornce of CAREER SERVICES, OR CONTACT TORR NFWNAM,

Jorin ECKMAN, ELIZapeth DUBOSE, OR JAIME MOORE AT (704) 348-1000.

Sophomore Corrigan and Junior
Garrett have divided the goal tending
responsibilities throughout the season
and their statistics are virtually identi-
cal. Garrett has a slightly lower goals
against average, 2.15 compared to
Corrigan’ s 2.33, while Corrigan is cred-
ited with three wins to Garrett’s two.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats win-
ning streak came to an end on Saturday
against the University of Richmond.
Richmond defeated the ‘Cats 2 to 0.
Davidson fought their opponents to a
scoreless tie throughout the first half
arid the majority of the second. How-
ever, at 60:36 into the game Richmond’ s
Maya Clark pounced on a deflected ball
and headed into the left side of the net
past Wildcat keeper Chesley Garrett.
Seven minutes later, Clark found the

. back of the net yet again. Clark’s sec-

ond goal put Richmond ahead 2 to 0 and
the Wildcats were unable to mount a
comeback.

The ‘Cats closed out the weekend
with a key conference match-up against

UNCG (7-5-1, 5-0). Lastseason, UNCG
finished in first place in the Southern
Conference with a7 and 0 record.

Davidson was able to contain their
opponents for much of the first half,
until Megan Bynum of UNCG scored
about 30 minutes into the game.
Bynum’ s first period goal was followed
by a teammate’s seven minutes later.

UNCG built on their 2-0 first half
lead early in the second period, when
Bynum scored again. With 29 minutes
remaining Sophomore Sarah Falconi’s
first goal of the season brought Davidson
within 2, but another UNCG score with
7:34 left in the game sealed the 4-1
UNCG win.

The Lady Wildcats now stand at 5
and 7 overall and 3 and 3 in the South-
ern Conference.

Upcoming games include a home
match against the University of Geor-
gia this Friday at 4 PM. They then travel
to Clemson on the 12th, Elon on the
15th, and conference foe Chattanooga
on the 18th.

| Get any 24 oz. Smoothie 1
for only $2.99! ‘
1 Nutri-Smoothie I
! Lakeshore Marketplace
i 19501 NC Highway 73 West \
i Next to First Charter Bank Store Hoaie I
y Cornelius, NC 28031 Mon-Fri 7am-7pm_
J (704) 895-5494 Sat 9am-3pm
Sun closed
li li
Whe ee ese ee ee eee ee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee es od

Nutri-Smoothie

Receive one 24 oz. Smoothie for $2.99.

who want to lose weight.
Carotene and flavonoids.

value of your smoothie.
One coupon per customer.

Valid with coupon or Davidson Student ID.

Not valid with other discount offers or promotions
Healthy meal on the run all year round. Low in fat
and nutrient dense--excellent meal choice for people
Packed with nutrients like Vitamin A, Vitamin C, Beta

Add herbs and supplements to increase nutritional

Also valid at; Nutri-Smoothie at Factory South

I-77

lst Charter
=o

<-- <;

| €-+ <-- <-- JSOM €/

Lakeshore
Market *

Bowes Howtoweit CONNER & CO. CHARLOTTE, NORTH CAROLINA

Boulevard, Charlotte, NC. (Coming soon)
Owned by a Registered Dietician. Nutrition
counseling available for anyone interested.

Jetton Cove

