_muepavinso"wn SS SRORTS —______tussspay, marci 24, 1998 _

Ebong- SoCon’s best sixth man
and the Wildcat’s best player

MVP Awarp

~ BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

Ebong was arguably the best player in the
Southern Conference in the last six weeks of the
regular season, as the Wildcats ripped off 12
straight en route to clinching their first NCAA
tournament berth since 1986.

Coincidence? Hardly.

Languishing at 6-8 after a loss to VMI Jan. 12
at Belk Arena, Davidson won 14 of its last 16, the
only losses comint to UMass Jan 22. and Michigan
in the first round of the NCAAs. During the
furious stretch-run span, the 6-foot-6 Omaha Neb.,
native averaged 11.9 points and 7.1 rebounds,
establishing himself as the Southern’s most potent
sixth man.

_ He finished the season with averages of 9.4
points and a team-high 6.2 rebounds a contest.

In the three-game conference tournament the
first weekend of spring break at the Greensboro

: Coliseum, Ebong scored 12 points and 8.3 re-
. bounds a game, picking up tourney MVP honors.

@ Forward Ben Ebong was a force in the paint for Davidson. His play, which
continued to improve all season, helped carry the team into the NCAAs.

Marshall surpasses all
expectations this season

Most IMPROVED
-PLaveER AWARD

BY MICHAEL J. KRUSE
Senior Staff Writer

It’s not that Marshall lacked talent last year as
a freshman. He just wasn’t on the court enough to
show it.
After missing the first five weeks of the
regular season due to a bout with Hepatitis A and
then spraining his ankle in late January, the 6-foot-
8 forward never truly got into game shape as a
rookie. Plus, with classmate Landry Kosmalski
storming his way to Southern Conference Fresh-
man of the Year honors, Marshall easily became
the forgotten man.
But in this year’s season opener Nov. 20 at
Duke, the Midlothian, Va. product demonstrated
his sometimes unstopable inside-capabilities, go-
ing for 20 points and 14 rebounds against the Blue
Devils, the No. | team in the nation for the major-
ity of the year.
While Marshall was far from a model of
consistency, he was the key for the Wildcats in
several biggies. The post player went for 20
against Appalachian Jan. 31 in Boone - one of a we
couple of definitive turning points forDavidsonin ® Stephen Marshall has blossomed from his
1997-98 - and erupted for a career-high 27 inthe Small role off the bench last season to become
league semifinals versus The Citadel. one of the Wildcats’ greatest offensive threats.

The Brothers of BAO present
the 3rd Annual

Golfing

MExIco/CARRIBEAN OR CENTRAL AMERICA ONLY $200 ROUND TRIP.
Europe ONLY $179 ONE way.
OTHER WorLD WibE DestTINATIONS CHEAP

" ONLY TERRORISTS GET
<a YOU THERE CHEAPER!

Gehri |
g Air Tech Limited - (212)-219-7000

To sign up to play in the tournament, - www.AirTech.com
contact John Steffen at x6808.

4

