THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1998

“Three

By MattHew Moretz

Guest Writer

Yes. I believe “writhing” was my word of
choice. But you must understand that I don’t
writhe without just cause. I writhe for sunsets,
well-played Grieg Concertos, and chocolate or-
anges. Anything less would be uncivilized. Oh...I
forgot to add another “‘writher” to the list: skilled
acting. In my attempt to express to the cast of
“Three Viewings” how I felt during their opening
performance, this seemed the ideal word.

“Three Viewings” by Jeffery Hatcher starred
Benjamin Summers, Carrie Van Deest, and Jess
Robblee.

For four Black Box days, these three thespi-
ans were each given the spotlight that they de-
serve. The medium they used to draw the audience
into their respective worlds were three exquis-
itely-penned monologues around 25 minutes each.
These three individuals overwhelmed me with
their ability to keep their audience transfixed by
their characters for such an extended period.

All of the presences on stage had an enticing

4
story to tell, all leaning on the themes of death and
love. Each walked a cloudy line between narration
and living the story being told.

Their created personas were firmly estab-
lished and devoid of cracks. We, the audience,
were skillfully escorted through the engrossing
lives of the characters, making astonishing discov-

fervent fire of frustrated passion. We were Emil’s
intimate confidantes and joined him in his struggles
to express his love to a gal with a pacemaker.
The use of abrupt lighting in the piece added
to the intensity of the touching portrayal.
Preceded by achange in floral decor, we took
a trip across the United States with Mac, deftly

“Their created personas were firmly established and devoid of cracks.
We, the audience, were skillfully escorted through the engrossing lives
of the characters, making astonishing discoveries alongside them.”

eries alongside them.

We were introduced to Emil, played by Ben-
jamin Summers, in the first piece. This timid
mortician (pardon me, Virginia, undertaker) was
impressively presented by Ben with squirrel-like-
ness and depth. His mannerisms and movements
were quirky and superbly consistent. He endowed
the reserved (and somewhat greasy) Emil with the

played by Carrie Van Deest. This bipolar coffin-
robber — whose husband forgot to fix the kitchen
door — takes us along on a new mission. We are
dragged through the dark and tragic corridors of
her past as she pursues theft from the corpse of her
grandmother.

Carrie displayed the mischievousness of Mac
the thief and the sorrow of Mac the grieving

Viewings” dazzles audience

mother, giving us ample taste of the rich reservoirs
of her character.

In the third account, the newly-widowed Vir-
ginia, aged to perfection by Jess Robblee, must
survive the fearful legacy of her wheeling and
dealing husband, Ed Carpolotti. The lively and
resolute Virginia must confront the mysterious
nature of her dead hubby, dreading the list of 13
things about Ed that someone threatens to dis-
close. ,

The remarkable aspect of Jess’s performance
was that she remained seated for the entire mono--
logue. The life of her character eradicated any
monotony that thé stationary blocking threatened
to impose on the piece. She met the challenge with
skill and style.

Every performer in “Three Viewings” drew
me into their world with ease. I left the building
with my thoughts lingering on the ironies and
tragedies of the three viewers, the residuals of the
writhing still present in my spine. I left the
building wanting more, walking in a happily
unsatiated state.

Well done.

Vivaldi

“Four Seasons”:

an immaculate performance

Soloists impress audience in DCPC Sanctuary

By Joun S. KENYON
Guest Writer

On Thursday, Feb. 19, the Davidson College
Symphony Orchestra performed Antonio Vivaldi’s
“The Four Seasons.” Student soloists were senior
Chris Gyves (“Spring”), sophomore Wesley H.
Goldsberry (“Summer”), senior Elizabeth Parker
(“Autumn”), and sophomore Sarah Davis (““Win-
ter”). Hoping for a large turnout for their winter
concert, the or-

ment was left on other members of the audience as
well.
“I thought the concert was well done,” com-
mented Mark Cody. “I enjoyed it very much.”
The orchestra definitely used their opportu-
nity to showcase Vivaldi’s masterwork of the
seasons extremely well, and as it should be per-
formed. Each season had its own soloist, which
the orchestra patiently and copiously mimicked or
added background misic to in order to give the full
effect of the vari-

chestra secured
the Davidson Col-
lege Presbyterian
Church santuary
as its performance
venue. Spectators

a masterpiece.”

“Clearly, the audience was expecting a
great performance. What they heard was

ous moods and
ideas Antonio
Vivaldi wanted to
express through
his work.

I

filled most every
pew.

About ten minutes past eight o’clock that
evening, the crowd finally got a chance to applaud
the talented young musicians as they took the
stage.

_ Clearly, the audience was expecting a great
performance. What they heard was a masterpiece.
Conductor Richard Prior was able to use the am-
phitheater-esque qualities of the church to provide
a surround-sound environment, allowing the or-
chestra to exhibition their attentiveness to musical
detail, accuracy, and sensitivity.

“T was very impressed,” said student Nancy
Mensch. That same impression of awe and amaze-

thought the solo-
ists did a great
job,” continued Cody. :

At the end of the-performance, the applause
from the audience was concomitant to the standing
ovation which followed. While everyone might
left with slightly varying reactions to the evening’s
performance, I-believe all were positive.

The DCSO will perform its spring concert on
Thursday, Apr. 9 in Love Auditorium at 8:00 p.m.
The performance will include Beethoven’s Sth
Symphony and will feature senior Erika Rissing
on horn, winner of the 1997-98 DCSO Concerto
Competition.

COMMERCIAL

PHOTOGRAPHY

¢ COMMERCIAL ¢ INDUSTRIAL

¢ ADVEATISING
e CATALOGS

¢ PUBLISHING

° AERIAL
e BROCHURES
e MURALS

e PRODUCT |

¢ PROMOTIONAL
° DISPLAYS

e¢ STUDIO ON-SITE

eat OF

DISTINCTION

By MitcuH SHoRES
Student Health Advisor

A friend of mine stumbled upon this article,
and all it talks about is what kills your libido.
Now, I think this is something we should exam-
ine here, ‘cause I never hear of people having
very good sex lives around here.

Now, some of you may say that we are not
supposed to have sex before marriage. Well, you
have just buried your libido alive, and I am sure
you will dig it up someday. I just hope it is notall
rusted when you need it. Anyhow, sex happens,
we all have sexual cravings , and we just got to do
what we got to do, and I think we should DO IT!!

Wecan all think about doing it, but let’s stop
and think about what might affect our libidos.
The first thing that has an adverse effect is hor-
‘mones. Hormones: we all have them, and if you
are lacking in this department, it might be be-
cause I got enough of them for a small army.
Girls, it is said that one of the killers is birth
control, because it limits the testosterone levels
in your bodies. Since testosterone is the sex
hormone, this is bad.

Now, never ever compromise safe sex for
good sex. There are priorities here, and we have
to stick by them. If you should choose to discon-
tinue the pill in hopes of reviving your libido, I
would strongly suggest that you lookinto another
type of contraceptive.

The second killer of libido is too little sleep.
Well, no wonder this little campus has no sex
drive. We are all too busy writing papers and
studying for tests, and when we don’t have any-
thing to do, we are too damn tired‘to DO IT!!
Well, once again, we must remember our priori-
ties. We are here, after all, to get an education.
Hopefully along the way, we will be able to slow
down a little and have a little fun! Ain’t nothing
like get the old motor goin’ again aftera long hard
week.

Stress also leads to a decrease in sex drive.
I think this is another thing we have here at
Davidson. We just have to take the plunge and
relieve our stresses ina healthy way. And please,
whatever you do, don’t have a big adrenaline
rush (GUYS!!) before you DO IT!! This will
only stunt your performance and sex drive.

Slaughtering our sex lives: |
Libido killers on the prowl

Now, this one might be a conflict of interest
for some of us on campus, but too much exercise
will do your sex drive no good at all. Maybe if we
just cut back a little bit we can experience the
sexual surge we are all looking for. I think /could
give up exercise for this, anyway. Afterall, if you
regain your libido, it could lead to the workout of
alifetime. Hey, at least it would be different from
pumping iron and running on the treadmill.

The next two things that affect libido are
counteractive, so what will we do? They are
depression and antidepressants. If you are de-
pressed, you will be less likely to be interested in
things you like to do. But if you take the antide-
pressants, this, too, will lead to the death of old
Don Juan. However, there are some antidepres-
sants that have been shown to work well and not
affect your libido, including Wellbutrin, BuSpar,
Yocon,and herb ginkgo biloba. Talk to your
therapist about these alternatives.

The final killer — and I think this would be
a killer in more ways than one — is hypoactive
sexual desire. You got to think about sex every
now and then, or you are going to lose that feeling
for it. Some of you may shrivel up at this, but you
have to provoke yourself every once in a while.
There are still a lot of taboos about masturbation
around here, and it is time to take that wall down.
There is nothing wrong withit. Ifit does anything
for you, it will teach you things about yourself.
Have fantasies, and maybe one day, you caneven
see those fantasies happen. Of course, if you do
not have them to start with, it will be no fun in
your sexual search. Get kinky, people!!!!

Ok, enough. I think you all get the picture.
We would be more content and healthy people if
we just let these sex kittens out of their cages. Let
them run wild and explore it. Try to watch out for

- yourselves, and stay away from these libido kill-

ers. And if all else fails, just turn bitch on them
and show them what you have in mind.

If you have comments, questions, or concerns let
us know.

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson NC 28036

