__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

RESOLUTION

The Student Government Association of Davidson College
April 7, 1998

FROM THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE

As the end of the semester and final examinations approach, we remind
you that the Academic Regulations allow an instructor to “authorize a
student to postpone an examination for cause, i.e., when8the circumstances
involved are beyond the reasonable control of the student” (The Red Book,
1997-98, p. 55-56). In order to ensure consistency, fairness, and the
integrity of the Honor Code, we ask that students and faculty follow these
guidelines when postponing an examination.

Submitted by Rives Moore, Junior Class Senator and Chair of Trustee Contact Committee; Ann Harriot
Fisher, President of Davidson College SGA

Whereas academic and educational policies are an important aspect of student life at Davidson College;

| Whereas the Academic and Educational Policy Trustee Committee has a direct impact on present and future
students;

Whereas students have an important voice regarding issues of the Academic and Educational Policy
Committee; '

1. When the student is to take the examinations after grades are due, the
-instructor must sign a Form for Issuing an Incomplete (available in the
Registrar’s Office). The instruction submits a grade of “TI” and designates
the due date on the Incomplete Form. The due date can be no later than Aug.
10, 1998.

Whereas students currently have representation on five of the seven trustee committees: CCRL, Institu-
tional Advancement, Admissions and Financial Aid, Athletic Policy, and Buildings and Grounds.

Whereas students offer a unique perspective on these five committees;

Therefore, let it be resolved that the Student Government Association asks the trustees of Davidson College
to grant student representation on the Academic and Educational Policy Trustee Committee. Under the
discretion of the Committee chair, students may be asked to leave for executive sessions of the meetings. The
first student representative will be appointed by the SGA Senate body and all subsequent representatives will
be elected during the Category II elections in February.

2. When the student is to.take the examination at home, the exam is
mailed to the student’s home by the instructor or the Dean of Students. The
student completes the examination at home under the regulations applicable
during the campus examination period. For example, the student will work
no more than 3.5 hours. The student sends the completed exam directly to
the professor. We recommend to the student that photocopies be made and
the original be sent registered mail to protect against misdirected or lost

— mail.

RESOLUTION

The Student Government Association of Davidson College
April 7, 1998

3. When the student is to take the examination at the Student Health
Center, the instructor delivers the exam to the Center and picks it up upon
completion. The student takes the exam under the regulations applicable
during the campus examination period.

Submitted by Rives Moore, Junior Class Senator and Chair of Trustee Contact Committee; Ann Harriot
Fisher, President of Davidson College SGA

Whereas budget and finance policies are an important aspect of student life at Davidson College;
Whereas the Budget and Finance Trustee Committee has a direct impact on present and future students;

Please note:
Whereas students have an important voice regarding issues of the Budget and Finance Committee; ease n

Whereas students currently have representation on five of the seven trustee committees: CCRL, Institu-

yn bemtalion O1 Ine sen cor 1. Students should not remove an examination envelope from Chambers
tional Advancement, Admissions and Financial Aid, Athletic Policy, and Buildings and Grounds.

Building.

Whereas students offer a unique perspective on these five committees;

2. Students should not carry an examination home.

~ Therefore, let it be resolved that the Student Government Association asks the trustees of Davidson College

to grant student representation on the Budget and Finance Trustee Committee. Under the discretion of the .
Commnitice chair, students may be asked to leave for executive sessions of the meetings. The-first student 3. Roommates or friends should not deliver examinations to another
representative will be appointed by the SGA Senate body and all subsequent representatives will be elected
during the Category II elections in February. student.
THE OFFICE OF ADMISSION AND FINANCIAL AID WOULD LIKE TO EXTEND A HEARTFELT THANKS TO ALL THOSE WHO GRACIOUSLY
DEVOTED THEIR TIME, ENERGY, AND ENTHUSIASM TO OUR GUEST FOR SCHOLARS WEEKEND AND DECISION DAVIDSON.
WE COULD NOT HAVE DONE IT WITHOUT YOU! SPECIAL THANKS GO TO:
The Catering Staff . Dr. Larry Cain Shalini Unnikrishnan Amanda Lanier Ann Kirkpatrick
Max Oddo Jay Scanlan Anna Katherine Clemmons . Trey Davis Dr. Rosemary Zumwalt
Dr. Cort Savage Dr. Edward Palmer Kristen Taylor Robert Briggs The Athletic Department
Dr. Clark Ross Carolyn Ortmayer  ° . Jessica Benoit Nureya Namaz Career Services
Dr. Buzz Yoder Dr. John Heil Etta Dixon Lani Lawrence Vonia Singleton
Dr. Malcolm Partin Drew Waddell Charlie Shaw Dr. Cynthia Lewis Conner Eldridge
Dr. Bill Lawing - Judy Klein Jehan Shamsid-Deen Dr. Rich Neidinger ; Joy Sparks
The Davidsonian Na Mi Kim Jesse Smallwood Bill Abrams Angela Fisher
Dr. Jerry-Putnam Erin Fitzgerald Fahd-Gut The BSC - Campbell Goodloe
Dr. Luis Pefia Jessie Brown Tehnaz Parakh Davidson Outdoors Hunter Hopkins
Dr. Mary Thornberry Emily Downs Kevin Gaunt Marie Sharp Craig Laws
John Thompson Katie Schill Ana Rosa Garcia de la Torre Machelle Borders Rives Moore
Eleanor Hatcher Brian Cooke * Henry Carrison Kate Feldmeier Mike Orlando
Linda Campbell Austin Zeigler Stephen Nash Jake Fischer Dan Creekman
Yuka Ohta | Pete Thomson Meredith Moseley Terrence Gairy Jim Barber
Cat Kizer Cameron Richardson Sakeitha Crowder Margaret Hoover Kristen Taylor
Amanda Davis Justin Boner Jennie Hillmann -Jeff Kessler Ben Carter
Britton Shurley Meghan Martiniere Debbi Berry Lindsay Meyers Stuart Frye
Andrew Griswold Chris Tuttle Christopher Brantley Ed O’Bryan Kate Scibal
Hendi Fink Cintra Pollack Alison Swanson Daniel Cantey Jonah Swann
John Bell Matt Ellis Rosalie Esteves Drew Crawford Rob Heimburger
Liz Boehmler Jean Boehmler Maggie Ferris Dane Erickson John Kenyon
Foster Haselden Allen Lee Whitney Frazier Tori Talbot Christiane Buuck
Elizabeth Brantley Zhenya Arutyunyan Liz Holt Laura Craver ~. Tom McGintee
Julie Summersgill Mike Brady Lindsay Hughes Andrew Sicora Jeff Hwang
Zaidee Rose . Libertas Reid Leavitt Wes Goldsberry Irene Middleton
Tamra Carhart Larry Davis Megan O’Brien Matt Hurley Laura Waddle
Buster Burk Dr. Ken Menkhaus Ashley Brown Jennifer Lewis Benin Ford
Tim Saintsing Dr. Felix Carroll Kate Christensen “Aguil Deng Edward Diggins
Jon Adler Dr. Annie Ingram Beth DeWitt Nick Dancik Ron Williams
Will Bradshaw. Dr. Russell Snapp Aaron Sundstrom Liz Clasen Dr. Carole Kruger
Bridgett Green Dr. Ben Klein Amanda Weaver - Brenda Bondesen Jason Prince
The Physical Plant Dr. Tom Kazee David Kang _ Jennifer Carlyle Allison Dolph
Bobby Vagt Gina Strangis Kelly Byrd Anne Stancil The SGA
Dr. Bob Manning Dr. Karl Plank Edwina Zant Rob Harkey Jeanette Scire
Dr. Zoran Kuzmanovich Dr, Ann Marie Costa Mark Cody Yu-jay Harris Honor Council
Dr. Burkhard Henke Lynda Daniels Ben Cooper Ikenna Myers The PCC
Dr. Vivien Dietz Brent Wilson Joslyn Ogden Dr. Peter Krentz Megan Monroe
Ellar Hicks - Lee Burnett Dr. Gill Holland
David Johnston

