very so often the life of a sollays student
meets at a crossroad whereupon we must
face our self and ask the ever looming yet
vital question: “Whatis it that is important tome?”
Asasenior college student, let me tell you that you
will spend more time sitting at crossroads than any
human should have to bear. What should be
important today? A short list, in no specific order,
might include family, friends, money, grades, ath-
letics, and service. But which should come first
and when? Establishing priorities is something we
must do everyday, but when inquiring about pri-
orities that include life decisions, the answers do.
not come as easily as waking up every morning.
Or at least they shouldn’t.
Davidson demands a lot of its student body.
But unfortunately, as many have written in The
Davidsonian before me, students tend to place far
too much stress on academic achievement. While
we may place blame for this on the students
themselves, or an administration that only per-
petuates the problem, ultimately it is a societal
problem which keeps us up in Chambers all night
(errr, I mean the Union) studying just to make
sure we get that “A” (or in my case, a “B”).

As the successful little “capitalists” mom,
dad, and the world we live in have taught us to be,
we rest our self-worth on our success. On the
surface success appears only to be our achieve-
ments whether it be in sports, service, or the
classroom. But ultimately, success (we may admit

to it or not) translates into money. If we do well in
school and build a nice resume, we can finally land
that dream job and make “x” amount of dollars.
Weare all guilty of this thinking to a certain extent,
“poor professors” and “rich lawyers” alike, for it is
the very nature of a
capitalist society. Af-
terall, we must all make
a living when we fi-
nally leave Davidson
and that is going to re-
quire money.

Ido not mean to
suggest that every last
Davidson student is
simply motivated by the potential to make a few
bucks. That is certainly not true. For instance, I
know many students would participate in service
activities regardless of whether they get to add
such participation to their resume, but the very fact
that we do write such things down on resumes,
makes such a variable impossible not to give con-
sideration. Thus, my suggestion is that the very
society we live in corrupts our thinking process
when we finally sit down to figure out our priori-
ties.

So damn, this column is getting really boring.

For that I apologize. But if you made it this far, it’s
all down hill from here. Please continue.

Anyway, my ultimate purpose is to give a

little “thank you” to the infamous Homecoming

eeting at the crossroad —

poster person. You see, in the very least this
person (I use the term loosely) has cleared away
some of my corrupted prioritizing. It is too easy
at Davidson to get away with the notion that “T’
am the ‘Saly one that matters. “I” need to be
successful. “I” need to
be the powerful soci-
etal white male I was
brought up to be. “I”
need to bea “have,” not
a “have not.” While
this course of thinking
may be more extreme
in the head of the infa-

mous Homecoming ©

poster person, I see the same destructive reason-
ing running through students’ heads all over cam-
pus, including mine.

_ Iwill be truthful, a lot of what I held valuable
in Davidson’s student body was destroyed by this
random act of hatred. I suppose it was just
something I thought did not really exist in Davidson
or.the community. I have heard people throw
words such as “nigger” around before, and with
not such infrequency, but I suppose I ignorantly
hoped those people really were just “kidding
around.” I can no longer be as accepting or
hopeful.

Some of my hopes and feelings were re-
stored two weeks ago Wednesday night. I didn’t

"speak but simply watched and listened as those
who genuinely cared spoke about the race issue on
our campus. As I listened for almost two hours I
began to think about what was important. And
what I concluded was not that “I” was important,
or the work “T’”’ had to get done that night, but the
people sitting around me. After all, I am defined
by the people with whom I associate. I am a
Davidson college student. I am a senior. I ama
swimmer. I am just one among many in each of
those groups. Who would I be without these
associations? I can tell you one thing, I definitely
would not be the “Crabbie” I am today.

The past two weeks I have thought a lot. I
would hope the events of Homecoming weekend

_ would be enough to make everybody think. There

are certain times and events in our lives that give
us the opportunity for group and self-improve-
ment. However, I’m not sure there is always a line
between the group and the self. For when the
group prospers, you prosper, not the other way
around. Ultimately it comes down to our original
question, “What is important in this world?” Will
true happiness be in nice vacations to the Carib-
bean? Perhaps. Or perhaps separation from our
fellow humans, separation from what defines us,
leads directly away from happiness. We all must
answer the question of what is important for our-
selves. I just hope we all take the needed time out
to ponder this question.

Fair for all: The Davidson way

s atrustee of Davidson College, Iconcern ;
myself heavily with campus affairs. It has

come to my attention, in light of recent
comments, that one issue in particular has become
quite a problem on campus. Students have repeat-
edly questioned Davidson’s commitment to pro-
moting a diverse campus. Most recently, in the
Sept. 1 issue of The Davidsonian, four students
presented a Student
Government Associa-
tion Resolution con-
cerning this issue. The
resolution called for the
leaders of our college
to “create the condi-
» tions necessary for a
diverse environment.”
Other students contin-
ued the heated discussion in editorials, arguing
back and forth over the status of diversity (though
I use the term “diversity” here, I actually mean
racial interaction, since I know diversity only
means having minorities on campus and nothing
more). Moved by student concern, I could not
refrain from responding to the problem with an
editorial of my own.

Taking precious time away from my multi-
million dollar business corporation, I raced back to
Davidson to investigate the situation myself. I
walked around campus, trying to figure out where
to begin my search. I concluded that I first needed
to speak to the students. I recognized that, as a
trustee, I must always base my decisions upon
actual consultation with students to determine their
position, rather than assume knowledge and arbi-
trarily actin their (and the College’s) best interests,
Pulling aside the first student I encountered while
wandering over the school grounds, I questioned
him about the diversity issue. I asked him what lay
at the heart of the problem. He quickly responded
that the. biggest threat to diversity could be found
in Vail Commons. Confused, I asked him to
explain further.

The student (his name escapes my memory at
this time) began to explain how he encountered
this threat every time he ate at the Commons.
Sitting at his own familiar table with friends,
teammates, and fellow fraternity brothers, he con-
stantly noticed how all the African American stu-
dents repeatedly sat at the same table for every
breakfast, lunch, and dinner. He explained that
students now labeled this area “the black table,”
since no other race ever sat at this particular table,
or none that he had ever seen. He then mentioned
how the black students wouldn’t join his fraternity
or come to activities and parties often enough and
how they had even created the Black Student
Coalition (the BSC) as a way to keep themselves
separate from the other races. He concluded his
remarks by condemning the separatist attitudes

- promoted by these black students, who sought only

the company of those of their own race, shunning
all others. “I came to this school,” he said, “to
experience a diverse college community which

promoted the intermingling of races and these .

black students are hindering that for me. It’s all
their fault.”

Disturbed by the tale I heard, I asked the
young man if he had ever bothered to sit at the table
or attend the BSC. He
replied, “Why should
I? Idon’t feel welcome
at either place and I
don’t want to be the
person to make the first
move. I shouldn’t have
to leave my table or fra-
ternity where I’m com-
. fortable and surrounded
by all my friends. Besides, those places are just for
the black students.” I sympathized with his stance,
and agreed that another solution to the problem
must be found. Encouraging students to just sit at
this “black table” or join the BSC would only. bring
them great discomfort, which I vowed to avoid at
all costs. It was also too complicated and silly to
work.

I grew enraged at these black students for
closing themselves off from all other races on
campus, ruining the purpose of having black stu-
dents on the campus in the first place. I specifically
allowed African Americans to come to this school,
creating scholarships for that purpose, to enrich
the educational experience of Davidson students,
and these black students were ruining my plan.
Parting ways with the student, I contemplated the
whole diversity issue in light of the “table” aspect,
finally coming upon a solution fair to all, which
would solve the diversity problem.

I plan to impose a numerical system on the
black students, labeling each with a specific num-
ber, which will-replace their name for identifica-
tion purposes. Once all the black students receive
anumber, they will be assigned a table to eat at for
the rest Of their college career (one black person
per table). The rest of the Davidson students will
then sit at tables of their choice, rotating among the
different tables until they have sat with every
number. The administration will add a new re-
quirement for graduation, compelling students to
sit with every black person by the end of their
senior year. This plan also has the advantage of
dispelling the need for classes and professors pro-
moting African American culture and history, since
each black student is an authority on these subjects

and will enlighten the other students during meal- _

times.

Davidson College represents the brightest
hopes for the future, so this unrest over diversity
must be smoothed over quickly to return our com-
munity to its normal state. We must band together
torid our campus of this slight imperfection before

outsiders mistakenly come to believe that Davidson
has serious social problems. I urge students to put
my plan into effect, since it is obviously the most
efficient and fair solution proposed to diversify

‘this school. Let us move past this issue once and

for all, letting our utopia continue to serve as an
example for the higher education system of the
United States. In the words of Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr., “We shall overcome.”

Davidson College Trustee #9

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

News Editors Op-Ed Editor
Papen ine Biisincss Manuger ERIN McKINLEY
UR
SCOTT REEDER Arts & Living Editors
Sports Editors Circulatiok Manager MELISSA ANN de
ALISON KALETT BOGRNEREEATH CASTRIQUE
MIKE ANDERSON WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
News Layout Editors pee i. ll Op-Ed Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY DAVID JOHNSTON JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN McCORMICK oe EVAN McCORMICK
ELDER GWIN Copy Edilors WILL PARKER
EY: BLAKE
Sports Layout Editors CINDY CLARK Arts& Living Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON JOHN DUNWOODY CATHERINE CORNWELL
CADER HOWARD STEPHANIE ERICKSON . KAREN SWEENEY
MOLLY MARKARIAN AILEEN WATERS
Ad Designers JUSTIN MONROE.
BEN COVINGTON JAY SCANLAN Photo Editor
CADER HOWARD ; SALLIE McMURRAY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
‘ ‘/www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

