obs a

From the minutes of Apr. 2, 1998

@ Twenty-three people applied for Order of Omega; 15 new members will be
chosen. The next selection process will take place next fall.

@ = The fourth eating house is currently thinking of a name, drafting a mission
statement and constitution, and working with the physical plant to renovate Pax.

@ CCRL will meet on Apr. 15 to consider and vote on the Alcohol Policy
Recommendations submitted by the Alcohol Policy Committee.

@ ‘Warner Hall is off probation, but may only hold BYO events for the
remainder of the semester. They must still conduct their educational program-
ming. ,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon is on probation until Apr. 15; they must still conduct
a program with Bart Landess.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s case was redeliberated last Wednesday. Their
sanctions include a $500 fine, a workshop with Bart Landess on corporate
responsibility and hazing, and alcohol probation until Oct. 1.

Phi Delta Theta’s case'was heard last Wednesday. Sanctions against them
include ‘alcohol probation until Jan. 1, programming on pledging and alcohol
awareness, and they may not have a pledge class next year.

The floor was opened up for discussion, and Alan Hyder of SAE said that
these sanctions did more to damage the houses than to teach house responsibil-
ity. There was general concern over the severity of the sanctions. PCC President
Conner Eldridge pointed out that with the Court under such scrutiny, it would
not be good to let houses off easily for breaking state law as well as school policy.

@ The Easter egg hunt will be either this Thursday or Friday; each house is
asked to donate whatever they can — plastic eggs, candy, and time are all
needed.

The Erwin Lodge service project was held last Saturday, as was the ninth
annual MADD Run, sponsored by Kappa Sigma. :

Golfing for Gehrig, sponsored by Phi Delta Theta, will be held on Apr. 26
at a country club in Statesville. All houses are asked to send teams. Prizes
include anew Volvo and atrip to Scotland. All proceeds go to fight Lou Gehrig’ s
Disease.

@ Details for the co-sponsored band next fall are still being ironed out. A
policy that be no alcohol‘on the Court except for inside houses was proposed.
Open parties could be held, but no alcohol can leave the houses. It was also
suggested that each house contribute $1000 or whatever might be needed to the
event. There was some debate as to the ability of every house to donate the same
amount because of the disparity in membership numbers.

SARAH OGDEN

By Jen DENNIS
Staff Writer

Anyone who enjoys. drinking al-
cohol on Davidson’s campus should
pay attention to the events happening in
the following weeks. As stated in the
Davidson charter, the Alcohol Policy

must be annually reviewed. The time’

for criticism of the policy has arrived;
which brings questions for the future
and rumors as to what rules Davidson
drinkers will have to adhere to next
year.

For the past two to three weeks,
both students and faculty have given
their input on the Alcohol Policy. A
committee consisting of eight mem-
bers, three of whom are faculty advi-
sors, met to discuss the language and
specifics of the current policy.

The idea of a BYO policy was
strongly considered.

For the entire year of 1996-97, the
number of alcohol violations was 65.
To date, however, there have been 71
violations, and seven weeks remain in
this semester. Due to the increase in
alcohol-related incidents this year, a
suggestion for all houses to become
strictly BYO was considered. This
policy would prohibit alcohol from be-
ing provided by the houses, thus reduc-
ing the obligation of houses to be re-
sponsible for their members.

Four votes were taken by the Al-
cohol Committee. The final vote was
split, resulting intwo recommendations
being sent to the Committee on Campus
of Religious Life (CCRL).

From CCRL, the recommendation
will be sent to Dean of Students Tom
Shandley and President Bobby Vagt for
consideration. Finally, the recommen-
dation will be sent to the Board of
Trustees for the ultimate decision. Any
decision differing from the present
policy will not begin until next semes-
ter.

A trial period of two weeks for

the BYO policy is being considered for
this semester. Conner Eldridge, Presi-
dent of the Patterson Court Council,
worries that the: trial period will be
inaccurate due to the fact that the policy
will be a novelty for the students and
may not seriously affect their behavior.
He is against the new policy because he
feels students do not support the idea.
Brian Langley, President of Phi
Delta Theta, feels the same way. He

understands advocating the policy be-'

cause of the present problems but does
not think that the student body strongly
promotes the new proposal.

“The primary concern of everyone
is safety,” Eldridge explained. He feels
that the BYO policy would make drink-
ing unsafe and unhealthy for students.
Many of the alcohol-related problems
on campus have been the result of indi-
viduals beginning to drink in their rooms
and becoming sick while down on the
Court, making Patterson Court seem as
if it is not a place for safe drinking.

Also, Eldridge pointed out, some
students already feel that the Court is
exclusive, and that would be enhanced,
as members not belonging to a particu-
lar house would feel discouraged from
entering a house they could not drink in.
Essentially, part of the social atmo-
sphere on the Court would be lost due to
the new policy. ;

The BYO policy, however, would
help some students, especially those in
affiliation with either a fraternity or a
house. The social budget would receive
drastic changes as the dues for alcohol
decreased, as well as the amount of
insurance that the houses are currently
paying decreased.- The question re-
mains as to whether the students prefer

paying less money or drinking together _

in a social environment. a
Other items are also being consid-

olicy under scru

ered for the Alcohol Policy along with .

the BYO idea. One strong recommen-
dation is a change in the number of
people determining an impromptu.

iny

Presently, if more than-40 people
are present in a house, it is considered
an unregistered party, and the police
must shut it down. The unanimous
decision was to raise the number to 60
people.

Another change is that all houses
must register their sister- or brother-
hood functions. Under the present sys-
tem, this is not a mandatory require-
ment.

The “Good Samaritan” clause is
another tentative suggestion. Under
this clause, if a person*is in need of
medical attention due to alcohol con-
sumption, members of a house should
not stall necessary help due to the fear
of punishment for their house. Though
individual cases are looked at sepa-
rately already, this recommendation
acknowledges that individuals are es-
sentially responsible for their own
amount of consumption of alcohol, par-
ticularly if the people have been drink-
ing prior to their arrival at the house.

A final suggestion is designed to
create safer residence halls. With this
plan, Resident Advisors would not be
responsible for the drinking done on
their halls and could have the possibil-
ity of drinking with their hall members
behind closed doors. This “friend”
drinking could be one way for Hall
Counselors to carefully watch their hall
members without feeling obligated to
give violations to them. This sugges-
tion would also prevent tension among
hall members and the Hall Counselors
who are responsible for reporting their
actions.

Although all of the suggestions
have their positive and negative points, .
the essential concept behind them all is
the encouragement of safe drinking
among the students while continuing to
provide a strong social environment.
The final decisions of the policy will be’
released as soon as they are considered
by the CCRL, Shandley, Vagt, and the
Trustees.

REGISTER TO VOTE
STUDENTS ¢ FACULTY ¢ STAFF
DEADLINE: APRIL 10 —

This is an important election! If you want to defeat the. “Gang of Five”
which denied funding for the Arts, be a part of this election.

WHERE: Registration forms can be obtained from the
Davidson Public Library, corner of Main Street and Con-
cord Road, on the Village Green.

SUGGESTION: Register “Unaffiliated.” That way you
a member of the “Gang” who represents our district.
ALREADY REGISTERED? Please consider changing

your registration to “Unaffiliated.” Forms are available at
the Davidson Public Library, also.

Paid for by Leland Park

can vote in the Republican primary and against Joel Carter, ||

Duke Endowment aids school in multiple ways

Duke from page 1

pany, through an Indenture of Trust
with assets of $40 million. Since its
conception nearly 75 years ago, the
Endowment has flourished as one of
the nation’s largest private founda-
tions, with assets totaling more than
$1.73 billion.

___Created to benefit the people of
North and South Carolina in perpetu-
ity, the Endowment provides assis-
tance health care and child welfare
organizations in both North and South
Carolina, and rural United Methodist
churches and retired ministers in North
Carolina. The Endowment’s Inden-
ture of Trust also named four institu-
tions of higher education in its provi-
sions: Duke University, Johnson C.
Smith University, and Davidson Col-
lege. :

Since 1924, Davidson College has
received more than $53 million in sup-
‘port from The Duke Endowment, mak-
ing it the single largest benefactor in
Davidson’s history. This financial sup-
port has financed a number of physical
projects at Davidson, including con-

struction of the visual arts center and _

life sciences building, acquisition of
scientific equipment, automation of li-
brary, and the campus-wide computer
network project.

In addition, Endowment money
provides support for the philanthropic
tradition on Davidson’s campus, in-
cluding the Love of Learning program
and various internships. The

- Endowment’s continual financial sup-
port has enabled Davidson to remain as
the only liberal arts college in the South-
east consistently ranked at the top in
national publications.

A significant portion of the
Endowment’s financial support also
goes towards the James B. Duke Schol-
arship, ascholarship awarded to incom-
ing freshmen who demonstrate excep-
tional academic and leadership prom-
ise.

“If I hadn’t received this scholar-
ship, I wouldn’t have been able to at-
tend Davidson,” said freshmen scholar
Laura Waddle. “Davidson was the high-
est-ranked school I applied to, and it’s
the best place for me to become a leader
and to be challenged academically, so I
am extremely grateful to the Endow-
ment for the opportunity.”

Other Duke Scholars include se-
niors Renu Bhatt and Matt Ellis, juniors
Lauren Freeman and Brian Campbell,
sophomores Paul Eubanks and Lisa
Worthington, and freshmen Waddle and
Laura Craver. ,

