DAVIDSO}
“The Nation’s

a
EstaBLisHeD 1914

Foremost College Weekly” —

Town plans for sewer expansion.

NEws 4

Making your toilet bigger.

The Davidsonian gucks:

Britton places blame for problems.

OPINIONS 6

Davidson grad book reading.

A&L 8

Reynolds raps on campus.

Swimmers kick Southern States
Wildcats win in the water.

SPORTS 12

Sallie McMurray

@ The BAT Mobile (Breath Alcohol Testing Mobile Unit) made an appearance last
Friday on Chambers Lawn as one of the main events surrounding Alcohol

Awareness Week.

COLLEGE RELATIONS
Press Release

Larry J. Dagenhart of Charlotte
has been elected chairman of the David-
son College Board of Trustees.
Dagenhart, a 1953 graduate of David-
son, is a Senior Partner with Smith
Helms Mullis & Moore, where he has
practiced law (with its predecessors)
since 1958. He has served as a trustee
of the College since 1972.

Dagenhart, who was elected chair-
man at the October 1997 trustee meet-
ing, officially began his new duties on
Jan. -1, 1998; and conducted his first
meeting as Chairman when the trustees
met on the Davidson campus on Friday,
Feb. 13. Other new officers elected at
the October 1997 meeting are Vice
Chair, Ben Barker; Dean Emeritus,
School of Dentistry, UNC Chapel Hill;
and Secretary, Dan S. LaFar, Jr., Presi-
dent of LaFar Industries, Gastonia, N.C.

Dagenhartis a native Taylorsville,
N.C., who attended New Hanover High
School in Wilmington, N.C., and then
came to.Davidson as a Baker Scholar.
He graduated in 1953 as class valedic-
torian, amember of Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa. He also served
as vice president of Student Govern-
mentandaBattalionCO, ROTC, among
other honors. ‘He went from Davidson
to New York University Law School on
a prestigious Root Tilden Scholarship,
served two years in the U.S. Army, then

Larry Dagenhart elected to chair
Davidson College Board of Trustees

finished law school in 1958.

Since coming to Charlotte,
Dagenhart has been active in civic, chari-
table, and corporate service. He has
served as past chair or president of
Charlotte Chamber of Commerce,
United Way, Arts & Science Council,
Foundation for the Carolinas, Charlotte
Country Day School Trustees, and Char-
lotte City Club.

He is currently a director of Can-
non Medical Research Center, Ben
Craig Incubator Center (Chair), Char-
lotte World Affairs Council (Chair),
J.A. Jones, Southern Webbing, Inc.,
and N.C. Citizens for Business and In-
dustry. He is also a Trustee of UNC
Wilmington and a member of the Can-
didacy- Committee, North Carolina
Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran
Church in America.

He has served alma mater for de-
cades in a number of outstanding lead-
ership capacities, including a -year as
secretary of the Board of Trustees and
most recently as chairman of the Presi-
dential Search Committee that selected
Robert F. Vagt as 16th president of
Davidson College.

Dagenhart is married to the former
Sarah Petty of Selm, Ala., a graduate of
Agnes Scott College. They have three
children and three grandchildren. Two
of their children also graduated from
Davidson — Katheryne Dagenhart
Satterwhite ‘84 and Larry Dagenhart,
Jr. ‘91.

Bringing the railroad back to the Davidson community

“Ride the Rail” campaign may reinstate the Norfolk Southern rail corridor

By LypiA WILSON
Staff Writer

On Friday, Feb. 6, Davidson’s
former train depot was once again awak-
ened by a buzz of passenger activity. °

The depot, along with three others
on the Norfolk Southern rail corridor,
was visited by an Amtrak Flexliner pas-
senger train as part of a promotion for
North Mecklenburg’s “Ride the Rail”
campaign. ‘

The campaign, which is sponsored
statewide by the North Carolina De-
partment of Transportation and Amtrak,
aims to reinstate the use of passenger
trains on many of North Carolina’s more
infrequently used rail lines.

The Norfolk-Southern/Highway
115 rail corridor is a prime target for
this program.

In order to excite citizens about
the prospect of commuter rail service to
Charlotte, the towns of Davidson, Hunt-
ersville, Cornelius, and Mooresville all
worked in conjunction with the North
Carolina Department of Transportation
and Amtrak to bring the train through
on a demonstration run.

Each town held festivities at the
site where the train made its stop. For
Davidson, that site was the old depot.
The area was encompassed by red,
white, and blue balloons, and portions
of Depot and Jackson streets were
blocked off so citizens could safely
await the train’s arrival.

The event was attended by ap-
proximately 300 people, roughly 90 of
whom were able to board the train and
“Ride the Rail” onan Amtrak Flexliner,
much like the ones that might service
the Davidson area in the future.

There is no official timetable as to
exactly when the train service could
begin. Over the next six toeight months,
local town officials will continue to
hammer out all the details to find out
when the service might actually start.

According to Tim Keane, David-
son Town Planner, the whole process of
actually bringing the trains in could
take anywhere from three to five years.
One of the major advantages to bring-
ing in this type of transit, according to
“Welcome to the Future,” an informa-
tional pamphlet put out by the local
sponsors of the campaign, is that no

new infrastructure would need to be
built to accommodate the trains.

The rail vehicle is capable of trav-
eling up to 120 miles per hour, though
the age and condition of‘the Norfolk-
Southern line would probably permit
the trains to travel no more than 60
miles per hour. Due to these high speeds,
structural improvements on the exist-
ing rail lines would be necessary.

The speed at which the Flexliner
would travel would allow commuters
to travel faster than they legally could
along Highway 115. And, since a two-
car rail vehicle with one driver can
carry as many passengers as six buses
or 180 single-occupant cars, the service
would also cut down on pollution and
overcrowded roads.

The rail service would begin by
servicing a primarily commuter market

- with a larger number of departures and

returns in the morning and evening.

The number of runs made would
increase as ridership increased.

This type of rail service could have
many, long-reaching effects, according
to “Welcome to the Future.” One of the
most obvious effects would be a height-

ened accessibility to new.towns forcom-
muters from other areas. This influx of
commuters would channel growth along
the rail corridor, bringing more activity
and change torelatively small and stable
towns such as Davidson.

Keane said the service “would
bring changes, but more positive

changes without building new roads or

intersections.” Over time, residents
should expect to see more businegs- and
commuter-related services springing up
along the corridor, but what they won’t
see is the bumper-to-bumper traffic that
comes with other transit improvements
such as highway expansions.

College Physical Plant Director
Robert Collins believes the program
would bring a great deal of advantages
to residents and students alike.

As well as providing transporta-
tion to Charlotte, train service could
provide students with a vital link to
other transportation services such as
bus stations or the airport.

Though none have been planned
out yet, Collins envisions a student-
friendly fee schedule. The rates would
be as reasonable as possible and some-

eee ee en eee ee ee eee en ene nee eee eee eee eee ———_——————— ey

? “The competition was fierce, and sometimes people got really angry over losing.”

BRITTON TAYLOR, COMMENTING ON THE TEAMS THAT PARTICIPATED IN THE RECENT COLLEGE BOWL.

thing like a frequent-rider card could ©
allow students to ride the rail without
having to carry cash for the fare. “The
service would blend very well with life
here in Davidson,” said Collins.

Plans are still in the works for most
of the details surrounding the possible
arrival of Regional Rail service in David-
son. The most pressing goal for local
officials at the moment is to stir up
community support for “Ride the Rail.”
Anyone interested in showing their sup-
port can drop by Town Hall during
office hours to sign a petition.

EDITORIATLS °2..0..2086: )
UB ETERS o3.ikissccicacwiees 5
RFD soi iessiciistsiaccn es 6
ARTS & LIVING ........... 8
SPORES ac iciowenies 12

First Class Mail

U.S. Postage Paid

Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

