ae

hen I was in high school, I used to have,
W «= recurring dream in which I was

giving a talk on stage during our daily
Assembly. All of my fellow students were leaning
forward in the Chapel pews intently listening to
me expound upon some subject or other, I stood
up at the lectern, effortlessly delivering nugget
after nugget of wisdom. Nearing the climax of my
speech, I hit my audience with an uproariously
funny joke — light on tact, heavy on sarcasm —
and... nothing. Blank stares. Drool.

Yes, it’s true, my worst nightmare is not one
in which I show up for Bio in my undies, or star in
a porno with my grandfather, but one in which I
am surrounded by people who lack a sense of
humor. When I arrived at Davidson, to my horror,
I realized that my high school nightmare had
portended my college
experience. People at
Harvard understand
humor, so do people at
Yale, and I had ended
up at a place similar to
PCU where myriad is-
sues of the paper fo-
cused on the lack of
graham crackers in the
Union Cafe. Could I really thrive at a place that
condemned a céndom tossing Santa which was
the highlight of my 1996 holiday season? Well,
it’s been hard, but I’ ve survived. I have had to live
out my nightmare almost daily, but have come
through it by buffering myself with a few key
friends who never take themselves too seriously.

And here’s the point of this article: Lighten
up, Davidson Students. We’re forever harping on
the REAL world and how close we think Davidson
approximates it, if at all. The fact is, in the REAL
world, no one gives a damn if you do your best
thinking between 1 and6 a.m. (it’s more likely that
you just wasted away the daylight hours anyway)
or you are offended by your favorite 7-11’s stock
changes. To paraphrase somebody more famous
than I, unless you write something worth the
reading or do something worth the writing, you are
an insignificant waste of space that God has mer-
cifully granted only about 65 years on this Earth.

Because I realize the truth of the above state-
ments is exactly why I believe that Dave and
Erich’s column is the only one I ever need to read.
Amidst a complaint-filled mass of mediocre writ-
ing (why are people allowed to exempt from
Comp 1017), their articles stand out. True, they
complain, and errors do exist within their writing,
but at least they’re funny and they’re (usually)

The art of parking

, for one, am a disgruntled individual. And,
I believe it or not, the brunt of my frustration is

not derived from my grim academic perfor-
mance nor my lackluster social life but, rather, the
source of my bitter-
ness, when I get
right down to it, is
really just one thing:
parking tickets.
Fifty dollars? Are
you kidding me?

Relatively late
many nights ago, I
came back to my
apartment, located in building F of Martin Court,
only to find, not surprisingly, there remained no
available parking spaces. I was haggard and
annoyed and just didn’t want to drive around
campus in search of that one dismal little parking
space that time forgot. So what did I do? I did
what every other four-wheel drive vehicle owner
would do. I parked where the mere mortal cannot.
I hopped the curb and strategically placed my
truck on the grass out of harm’s way. I might add
that I was in no way, shape, or form, an impedi-
ment to the access paths of emergency vehicles.

Regardless, I woke up early the next morning
with the sole intention of moving my truck to a
“legal” space and was warmly greeted with one of
those hideously bright yellow envelopes. Hmmm,
I thought. I wonder what’s inside? A $50 kick in
the teeth, that’s what. And it is this atrocity which
I would like to address now.

Now, some of you may be saying to your-
selves at present, “Who is this guy, and why is he
wasting my time?” A valid question. I mean, my
receiving the ticket was, no doubt, the impetus for
my writing this article. But, upperclassmen, an-

ito
complaining about something of consequence.
(They really DO need someplace to work on those
“buff” bods, and Baker ain’t it.) So, knowing all
I know about Davidson, I guess I wouldn’t have
been surprised at the hate mail they received about
one little comment nestled in the cracks of a
hilarious column: the Mrs. Degree.

I owe it to the opposition to admit that it is a
hackneyed joke. Gloria Steinem would probably
say that joke or no, Dave and Erich are sexist pigs.
Maybe. But it is precisely within the context of
Davidson College that the joke exists as an absur-
dity more than a viable insult. To answer Carrie
Arthur’s question in her nota bene to an otherwise
powerful article: NO, Dave and Erich do NOT
really think thata woman would come to Davidson
just to find a husband. They go here, too, remem-
ber? They know ex-
actly what you went
through, and go
through, to succeed
here and then go on to
find a richer, better
looking man at grad
school. Ican only con-
clude that Arthur and
others were miffed
because many people here are insecure about
going to Davidson, when they presumably had a
choice, just because no one outside of the South-
east has heard of it. Hello, name recognition isn’t
the point, the education is.

Whatever the reason, picking a pet issue like
feminism and then following through on the easy
stuff is trendy and counterproductive. The femi-
nist cause has been severely hindered by the image
of feminists as bitchy, defensive, man-hating les-
bians. You can work for sex-equality and still
have a sense of humor.

In other words, please realize that equality
will be the result of winning the war, not of
squelching little battles against funny guys who
use bad jokes for entertainment value. As a nudge
in the right direction, here are some worthy issues
to ponder:

-Women still earn less than men at compa-
rable jobs.

-In many states, birth control is virtually
unavailable to the women who can least afford to
have another child — hello, back-alley doctor
with a coat hanger.

If that makes you as mad as irreverent guys
who think you’ re a stupid gold-digger, go write a
truly useful letter of complaint: to your congress-

men.

swer me one question: Don’t you think that it’s

about time this issue be brought to light? If so, read

on.

This past summer I was living and working in
Charleston, S.C., a fabu-
lous town which a handful
of Davidson students call
home. I think most people
who know the structure of
the downtown area would
agree with me when I state
that it has one of the worst
parking situations of any
city in the entire nation.
You just can’t find a space when you need one, or
even when you don’t, for that matter. Now, it’s
safe to say that a horrendous parking issue such as
this would promulgate a little bit of shady behavior

on the part of citizens and tourists alike. People are’

going to try to get away with parking illegally.
Some, in fact, will escape the long arm of the law
and others won’t. What’s the punishment for those
violators of justice? An $8 fee. Nothing, right?
Well, I’ll let you on to a little secret. Having to pull
eight bucks out of my wallet for the purpose of
forking it over to the city of Charleston would
make me think twice about parking illegally there
again. But a $50 fine for the same infraction here
makes me absolutely irate.

Honestly, just because a good portion of the
student population already pays a sizable sum to
attend this institution, does that lead policy makers
to believe that we’re all filthy rich and can afford
an exorbitant parking fine, such as, say $50? Ihope
not, because that would surely sound like they’re
being quite discriminatory, something most people
look quite unfavorably upon.

And what of these $50 fines? Where does the

2 ARES BETES IE LEE SNIPS UE NTI NGAP NEO TI AEP STEN TNE D NEE ROE LLL ES

‘Student Opinion _

money go? To the campus police department via
more training, increased personnel, or better tech-
nology? To more parking spaces? To a high-
speed monorail system that can go from one end
of the campus to the other ina shade under 30
seconds? (Hey, it could happen.) Or what about
enforcement? We have to pay $80 a year for a
service that, honestly, is not up to par with other
schools. What do we get? An ugly mustard-
colored sticker that allows us to maintain a car on
campus. Well, we’ve been here for nearly two
months now, and I’ve noted a number of the cars
on campus, parked in student spaces, still do not
have the registration sticker. Are the campus
police ever going to ticket them? Hell, why bother
with the registration in the first place? Not to
mention this past weekend, where (and we all saw
this) cars were left anywhere and everywhere on
campus, blatantly disregarding the rules yet never
once ticketed. But this speaks for itself and needs
no elaboration from this kid.

Don’t get me wrong. I really do feel that our
campus police department does a remarkable job
with respect to promoting safety at Davidson. I
sincerely think it’s great that students can traverse
our campus comfortably and without fear during
the early hours of the morning. But one must not
forget that it’s also the little things that count.

Enforcement of the rules is key, but let’s not pick _

and choose our violators. The only reason I
parked illegally in the first place was because I’d
seen it done many times before without conse-
quence. But I digress. I assert that the monetary
value which Davidson has attributed to a parking

_ violation such as mine is not at all reflective of the

violation itself. Instead, it is a seedy way of
charging us what they think we can pay.

VECCRESEVEN ECE TNS

After debating this issue with a dear and

' critical friend, I was led to believe that I. would

have to prove, using empirical evidence, that the
fine for a parking violation on this campus is
outlandish. Thus, I called a few friends at other
schools and found that fines there for similar

. infractions are considerably less. A parking viola-

tion at Virginia Tech, for example, only carries a
$15 penalty. And, just to make sure I’d covered all
my bases, Ithen focused upon the town of Davidson
itself whose rules and regulations do not apply to
our campus but do, indeed, surround it. Here I
discovered that a parking violation similar to that
of mine would be met with a $10 fine. I just don’t
understand how there can be so great a difference
between their fine and ours. . .unless I account for
the fact that we are being unfairly discriminated
against because of a stereotype.

I know what the underlying idea is when the
campus police throws $50 fines at us for parking
violations. It is meant to be a deterrent and to keep
us from being repeat offenders. Or is it? Perhaps
they’re just trying to make some cash the easy
way. If it’s the former, as I noted previously, a
much smaller fee would most likely have the same
inhibiting effect. But if it’s the latter, well, that’s
just a shame. For an institution whose roots have
been buried in soil so full of honor and integrity,
schemes such as that are just pitiful. On another
note, just in case someone was thinking of towing
me because of a dissenting opinion with regard to
this matter, I don’t own a truck after all. Rather, I;
not Dave Kaul (who, in his insightful article in this
week’s addition, has illustrated that libel is, in fact,
arelative term), am the proud owner of a green ‘96

Jaguar XJS convertible with Florida tags. Come

and get me.

Bae MMe Oe De Bs Se Oe te we We CE Se wera ae

