@ Kurt Holmes took Jim Barber’s place for last Thursday’s meeting while
Barber and four eating house representatives attended the Southern Panhellenic
Conference in Atlanta; President Bobby Vagt also attended the PCC meeting.

@ Apr. 7 at 7 p.m. is the last of the mandatory information sessions for new
members of Patterson Court. Bart Landess will give a lecture entitled “Risk
Managing for Dummies.”

@ PCC President Conner Eldridge reminded the Council that pledging ended
Mar. 22, and all pledges should now be fully initiated.

@ The fourth eating house will be voted on by CCRL, the house’s next step
to officially coming into existence.

@ The Patterson Court Games’s schedule was announced: On Wednesday at
5 p.m., Sigma Alpha Epsilon will hold a cake- or pie-eating contest at the
Commons; Thursday, Kappa Alpha will sponsor a horseshoe throw, Phi Delta
Theta will host a ping pong tournament, and Pi Kappa Alpha will hold a fussball
tournament (all at 4 p.m.), and Warner Hall will sponsor a lip-synch contest at
7 p.m.; a service project will be held Saturday morning, followed by Rusk’s
water balloon slingshot competition at 1 p.m., Kappa Sigma’s three-on-three
basketball at 1:30 p.m., Connor’s tug-of-war at 2 p.m., Phi Gamma Delta’s egg
toss in the middle of the Court at 2:30 p.m., the Black Student Coalition's bat-
spin relay in the middle of the Court at 3 p.m., and Sigma Phi Epsilon’s bus pull
in the Patterson Court Circle at 4 p.m.

The week will close Sunday at 8 p.m. with an Order of Omega-sponsored
awards ceremony in the Harrison Room of the Commons.

Faculty teams to compete in the Games are still needed.

@ The Council discussed senior class president Tim Saintsing’s proposal to
eliminate all but one Independent and one Patterson Court representative in the
SGA. “It’s a very bad idea,” said one representative. Other Council members
echoed that sentiment, saying that they have gotten ‘no positive feedback about
it at all” from their houses.

@ Sanctions against Sigma Phi Epsilon have not yet been approved by Dean
Shandley. Phi Delta Theta’s trial will be held tomorrow.

@ Sixty people are needed for a service project that involves cleaning up Irwin
Lodge,.said PCC Service Chair Christine Larned. Sign-up sheets will be posted
in each Court house. Once restored, the Lodge with serve as a recreation area
for the College and the community. It should be available for use within the next
few years, said Larned.

Larned is also looking into putting together service opportunities with
Habitat for Humanity. Plans for a College-community Easter egg hunt are still
uncertain.

@ | Dean of Admission and Financial Aid Nancy Cable and Assistant Dean and
Scholarship Coordinator of Admission Sally Stone spoke on Decision Davidson,
which will coincide this year with Patterson Court’s Spring Frolics. Cable said
that the Friday of the Court’s Frolics, 80 to 100 Prospective students will be on
campus.

Then, saying that she was appealing “‘on bended knee,” Cable continued,
“We need to be very careful that they are not exposed to alcohol.” Cable expects
40 to 50 prospectives to stay overnight with hosts on Saturday, which will give
them the opportunity to experience Court life if they so choose. (All Decision
Davidson activities end at 5 p.m. on Saturday.)

Cable said that she expects it to be a fun weekend as long as everyone is
careful. “I think this has a lot of potential to be a fun weekend,” Eldridge agreed.

@. The possibility of a band co-sponsored by the Union Board and the PCC is
still being discussed. Price-range is a concern, as are the conflicting alcohol
policies of the Union and the Court.

SARAH OGDEN

All goes well on lay Night

Lottery Night from page 1

to the number of students in each lottery group; the first and last groups were quite
large, with the intermediate groups considerably smaller.

Holmes also cited outlines for a few possible changes for Lottery Night in
years to come. The most important change, he thought, would be to resolve the
problem of uneven numbers of students in each time slot. Remarking that lottery
numbers and student clustering varies from year to year, he acknowledged that the
problem has no permanent solution.

Another change Holmes suggested benefits the students, rather than the RLO
staff. He understood that the students participating in lottery prefer to see not only
which rooms have been blocked out, but also who will be occupying the room. In
future years, overhead projectors might show this information.

The last change that Holmes mentioned would make the transition smoother
when students return to campus after spending first semester abroad. By granting
them off-campus housing privileges early in the year, RLO hope to relieve leasing
difficulties.

Holmes also reported a few miscellaneous facts. RLO only turned away three
groups of rising juniors from Martin Court, and there is a “healthy” wait list for
singles. As of right now, all on-campus housing has been assigned. Holmes gave
a positive opinion of rooms opening up for the 22 students who were wait-listed
for on-campus housing, though. Usually. students leaving campus the next
semester make their decisions later inthe semester, which opens rooms after lottery
night.

In all other respects, RLO said that lottery night was a success. In the words
of freshman Owen Merrow: “It was no big deal.”

nes anc

Prince win

eland Scholarship

By Lypta WILson
Staff Writer

This summer, Davidson students
senior Amy F. Jones and junior Jason
Prince will be breathing a little easier.
The two were selected as this year’s
recipients of the Oeland Scholarship
for Summer Language Study Abroad,
which provides each of them with a
scholarship for $2,000. The funds may
be used to lighten
the costs of any
summer Study
Abroad program
where study of a
language is the
primary goal.

For over 11
years the Oeland
scholarship has
been making it
possible for stu-
dents to study
abroad in order to
learn more about
a language, ac-
cording to Meg
Kimmel, Director
of Donor Rela-
tions. The schol-
arship would not
be possible, how-
ever, without the
gifts of Mary Oeland. Oeland, a resi-
dent of Houston, Texas, is the widow of
Davidson graduate Ray Oeland ‘25.

During his lifetime, Mr. Oeland
was a very generous donor to the Col-
lege, said Kimmel.

Any student who has ever gone to
the language lab in the basement of
Chambers, The Oeland Language Cen-
ter, has benefitted from his support.
The Center is funded by an endowment
set up by the Oelands which has and
will continue to keep the Center run-
ning so that students may further their
knowledge of foreign languages and
cultures.

Ms. Oeland did not want their sup-
port of the College to end with his
death. She remains very active in
Davidson’s affairs and currently serves
on the Board of Visitors. Members of
this board are not Davidson graduates,
yet still invest an exceptional amount of
time and energy in making Davidson a
better place. Each year the Board meets
with the president of the College to
learn more about campus current events
and to give feedback or suggestions on
college programs.

One of the most significant ways
Ms. Oeland continues to make an im-
pact on the campus is through the
Oeland Scholarship for Summer Study
Abroad. “Ms. Oeland is a great believer
in the value of travel itself as an educa-
tor,” said Kimmel. She believes that
only through immersing oneself in a
country and its culture can one truly

@ Amy F. Jones

begin to understand its language. Said
Kimmel, “She really does believe in
that. It gives her a great deal of plea-
sure, and she gets very excited when
she thinks about Davidson students who
are able to use the Oeland scholarship to
go do that.”

Ms. Oeland also realizes, how-
ever, that travel and study abroad is
very expensive. It is for this very reason
that two years ago she decided to in-

crease the stipend

ship from $1,000

ships at $2,000
apiece. Ms.
Oeland wanted
the scholarship to
have a profound
impact on reduc-
ing the costs of the
students’ study
abroad and to
lighten their fi-
nancial burden. *
Jones
will use the schol-
arship to fund her
study abroad in
Tours, France.
She is participat-
ing in “June in
Tours,” a one-
month study abroad program at the In-
stitute de Touraine. There, she and
Davidson’s seven other participants will
join students of other nationalities who
will all do an intensive study of the
French language during the day and
live with host
families through-
out the city at
night. Students
will also have the
opportunity to
take weekend ex-
cursions to Paris
and other parts of
France in order to
see and experi-
ence as much
French culture as
possible.

Jones will
probably not par-
ticipate in these
excursions, how-

Anna Judy

ever... “I'd like to

become as Ca-

pable in French as

I-possibly “cami,” @ Jason Prince
said Jones. “I really-want to speak it

well.” She feels the best way to accom-
plish this is by spending most of her
time immersed in her studies.

As an English major‘and Spanish
minor, French is actually Jones’s third
language. She took in French 103,
Intensive French, last semester and is
taking French 203, Intensive Advanced
French, this semester. Jones continues

for the scholar- -

to two scholar-—

to pursue languages so vigorously be-
cause she hopes one day to work in
some facet of international business.
Said Jones, “I’d like to work in the
international branch ofa bank or teach
languages, maybe, within a company.”
Having the skills to understand a third
language will help her better achieve
these career goals.

Prince, also an English major, will
be participating in the Davidson Sum-
mer in Mexico program. He. and ap-
proximately 12 other’ students will be
accompanied by Davidson Spanish As-
sistant Professor Ramon Figueroa for a
six-week study abroad program in
Mexico. Instead of taking classes at a
Mexican. University, as with the Tours
program, students will instead be taught
by Figueroa in the subjects of Mexican
Art, Contemporary Mexican Issues, and
Intermediate or Intensive Spanish.

One of the benefits of this pro-
gram, according to Prince, is that each
student will meet three times a week
with their own Mexican “tutor.” The
tutors are not teachers, but rather friends

- who meet with each of the students

three times a week to introduce them to
the social and cultural environment of
the city. Prince is especially excited at
this prospect because, through these
meetings and their living with host fami-

‘lies, the students will further their un-

derstanding of the Spanish language,
but more importantly, the Mexican cul-
ture.
Though his major is English, this
time abroad will actually help Prince
with his senior thesis. “I’m getting
ready to write an
honors thesis on
Ernest
Hemingway,”
said Prince. “Al-
though I’m not
going to Spain,
there are elements
(of Spain and
Mexico’s cul-

‘ tures) that are
similar that I can
take advantage
of.”

This
time abroad will
hopefully give

_ Princeabetter feel
for the culture
about which sev-
eral of
Hemingway's

novels were centered, as well as ad-
vancing him towards his goal of one
day reaching fluency in the Spanish
language.

Applications forthe Oeland Schol-
arship for Summer Study Abroad are
available each year in the Study Abroad
Office. Anyone interested in learning
more should contact Carol Ortmayer,
Coordinator of Study Abroad.

Anna Judy

Eco-Fact:

Every day, an area of tropical rainforest the size of Philadelphia (74,000 acres) is destroyed.

(Source: “The Rainforest Book”)

REMEMBER, ONLY THREE WEEKS UNTIL EARTH Day!

