THE DAVIDSONIAN

ROTC: A tradition of leadership and humanity

By Micuaet GILLESPIE
Assistant News Editor

In the mid-60s, Davidson underwent a major
change in policy when the requirement for Re-
serve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) participa-
tion was removed. This year, the program suffered
from another change in policy when a reduction in
federal funding removed much of the program’s
staff and moved activities away from Davidson
campus.

The ROTC program was designed to prepare
young men and women for service in the U.S.
Army. According to Major Alvin Vavra, Assis-
tant Professor of Military Studies and head of the

ROTC program at Davidson, many officer train- -

ing programs at colleges around the nation devel-
oped because of a need for competent — and most
importantly — diversified people in the Army. He
said that before the advent of ROTC programs,
West Point graduates filled most officer positions.
Members from different backgrounds serve to
broaden the Army’s structure and make the orga-
nization more adaptive and effective.

Vavra feels that this is why Davidson gradu-
ates are particularly valuable to the Army. Our
“graduates stand head and shoulder above the
people from other schools,” he said, and they
provide a needed diversity in addition to academic
ability.

One event that exhibits the quality of David-
son cadets is the enrollment process in different
branches of the Army. Vavra said that an ROTC
cadet’s entrance into the Army ‘is very similar
applying to college. Various scores for perfor-
mance and aptitude are recorded, and the appli-
cants are ranked accordingly.

' Priority for preferred areas of service is then
given according to this ranking. Vavra said that it
attests to the level of Davidson preparation that
“Davidson students usually get what they want.”
He also said that because of emphasis on academic
work and self-motivation, most Davidson stu-

dents were prepared to work for and earn promo-
tions in the Army. “Their only limit is their de-
sire,” said Vavra.

Evidently, though, quality of cadets is not
what has moved ROTC out of their offices beneath
Belk dorm and into the second floor of Johnston
Gym. Andalthough the Residence Life Office has
slid into ROTC’s old meeting spaces, the changes
in ROTC began two years ago. At that time,
former president John Kuykendall and the David-
son ROTC program were informed that federal
cutbacks in military funding would require
Davidson’s program to be phased out, and the
federal and military personnel stationed there to be
transferred to the program in Charlotte.

However, Vavra said that this is a small part
in the larger downsizing of the military in general.
By his interpretation, the downsizing trend began
after the Persian Gulf conflicts with Saddam
Hussein in 1990. Because of that conflict, the fall
of the Berlin Wall, and the demise of the Soviet
Union, Vavra feels that America began to believe
“we are great” and “there’s no threat,” and soon
afterwards, they began to request a reduction in the
forces believed to be no longer necessary.

“The army is getting smaller, smaller,
smaller,” said Vavra, and he seemed to think that
trend would continue. “I would expect to downsize
in reaction to what the public wants.”

This downsizing has hurt Davidson’s pro-
gram, and is hurting ROTC programs nationwide.
Vavra said the program went from requiring
800,000 soldiers on active duty to only 500,000.
This elimination of positions created a great deal
of student skepticism as to whether officer training
in a college’s ROTC program would lead to a
student finding a job in the future, and thus limited
the numbers of applicants. :

Also, with reduced funding and reduced need
for the sheer numbers of applicants, many ROTC
programs were simply closed. Where there were
323 programs, there are now only 270.

Davidson was partially spared from being

entirely closed but now exists in cooperation with
the ROTC group at UNC Charlotte. The Davidson
cadets still have their classes taught at the College
in classrooms in Johnston Gym, but Vavra is now
the only.officer assigned here.

Many activities ate now conducted through
UNC Charlotte. Vavra used the annual Ranger
Challenge — the “varsity sport of ROTC” —as an
example. His “sport” is a combination of the
academic as well as the physical, as the cadets
compete in both technical and tactical tasks. Un-
fortunately, Davidson could not field its own team
this year for a lack of cadets, but it did send
members to compete on Charlotte’s team.

Major Vavra has hopes to re-expand the
Davidson program over the coming years. One
obstacle for the program has been the limited
number of scholarships that Davidson has to offer.
But Vavra expects additional two- and three-year
scholarships to become available in the near fu-
ture. Under the new scholafship program, David-
son would receive a guaranteed number of schol-
arships per year. Twenty-six of the 30 people
enrolled now have scholarships.

Admitting that educational funding is often
the real reason many people accept the terms for
enlistment, Vavra is hopeful that these new schol-
arships will draw more recruits. Vavra hopes to
increase the number of cadets enough for David-
son to gain back its national host status. He said
that at that point, he can bring more personnel to
Davidson to assist in training.

Even without large numbers of cadets, David-
son ROTC has kept busy with a long list of
activities. They present the National and State
colors daily, performed the functions of Honor
Guard, march in the Veterans Day parade, the
Christmas Parade, andin Charlotte Hornets’ games,
and sponsor blood-drives in the fall and spring.

In addition to the community involvement,
they hold outdoor labs throughout the spring,
attend training camps during the summer, and take
a trip each semester to a remarkable battleground

__ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998 oa

MRS

in order to preserve the lessons of history.

Vavra said that the family aspect of the mili-
tary and the ROTC program is what makes partici-
pation special. He tried to describe the depth of the
bond through the example. of his command in the
Gulf War. “My greatest fear was the injury or loss
of life of one of my soldiers,” he said. “The bonds
prove very strong.”

That is one way in which Vavra sees the
Army as a unique employer. Because it seeks
people who will prevent the loss of life, it encour-
ages competence. He feels that this reward system
base upon ability provides a real sense of equality.

Vavra saw this equality as advantageous to
any motivated individuals. When asked about the
opportunities for women, he replied that today’s
Army tries to be as supportive as possible. “The
army has made many overdue strides into incorpo-
rating women into units,” he said, “and in accom-
modating their needs and breaking down the ste-
reotypes.”

There are boards of promotion who specifi-
cally look toward ability and performance to pro-
tect individuals from discrimination. “All the
women I have and the ROTC are at least as
qualified as the men,” he said, “‘and that hurts a lot
of male egos.”

Navra believes that the future of the Army
will increasingly consist of fast, smart, and diver-
sified soldiers. “We want people who can think,”
he said; that is important “to reduce the loss of
life.”

With the increase in technology and its incor-
poration into the Army, academic aptitude is also
becoming more important. Davidson ROTC ca-
dets, according to Vavra, are important to the
Army for their abilities and well-rounded back-
grounds.

Vavra sees Davidson’s ROTC program as
not only preserving a piece of the school’s heri-
tage, but also as preparing a hext generation of
leaders for a question at the basis of officer train-
ing: “How will you take charge?”

Ada Jenkins tutoring program in midst of successful first year

@ Catherine Turner

By CarriE ARTHUR

Sallie McMurray

Staff Writer

While some students think that the
town of Davidson consists only of the
College and Main Street, others leave
this sheltered environment every week
to make a difference in children’s lives
at the Ada Jenkins Center.

Twenty-three first- through fifth-
graders from Davidson Elementary
School participate in the program, which

began this fall. All of the students were
recommended by their teachers as be-
ing below the average reading and grade
levels.

Last semester, 37 Davidson stu-
dents served as tutors for the program.
This number should increase due to the
large positive response of Davidson stu-
dents at the Volunteer Fair. Last week,
65 Davidson students — most of whom
were new volunteers — attended train-

ing sessions for the Center.

Catherine Turner ‘93, coordinator
of the tutoring program, says the mis-
sion of the program “‘is to be a positive
and a safe environment for learning.”
This objective is accomplished through
tutoring and enrichment activities.

Tutors help the students with their
homework and with extra sheets de-
signed for their special needs. Enrich~
ment activities, Turner’s “next step of
improving the program,” include dance
on Tuesday for the first-graders and art
and recreation on Fridays. Although
Turner plans these activities “to be fun,”
she also “feels that students learn dif-
ferent skills — thinking skills as well as
dexterity.”

For now, because of the large num-
ber of new volunteers, Turner thinks
that they have enough volunteers.

After she matches each new tutor
with an individual student, she wants to
involve preschool students in the pro-
gram and “have more enrichment ac-
tivities that are field trip-type things:
going to basketball games (and) Dis-
covery Place.”

Turner thinks that the program may
need more volunteers later, but they
“aren't ready for that yet.”

Turner also hopes to involve the
students’ elementary school tutors in
the program, because “I really feel that
children who are really needy, like these
kids are, emotionally needy, don’t need
to have a different person for a tutor at
school, areading buddy, a lunch buddy,
a Big Buddy, and an after-school tutor.”

Turner feels that it would more

beneficial to the child if one person .

could fulfill all of these roles. She
realizes the enormous time commit-

~ ment but thinks that “it makes ita whole

lot better for the kid.”
Of the many advantages of the

program, Turner believes that the chil-
dren benefit most from “the positive
role models that they get from the col-
lege students.”

“(The children) think college stu-
dents are so cool,” said Turner. “They
imitate them and want to be like them.”

Turner hopes that the example set
by the tutors will influence the students
to become tutors themselves. In fact,
Turner’s former little sister (from when
Turner was a Davidson student), now
tutors at the Center.

Another benefit-ts the students’
improved grades. Turner is proud of
the improvement, but she believes that
the Center is only one contributor. “So
much goes into a kid’s education: the

teachers, the classroom setting, the par- —

ent involvement.”

Tutoring benefits not only the stu-

dents, but also the tutors. “When a kid
says thank you to you, holds your hand,
those little things just make you really
happy,” said Turner. “Kids love so
unconditionally, it’s just beautiful.”

Turner also feels that tutoring al-
lows the Davidson students to feel as if
they “are part of a community that is
greater that the College.”

In the future, Turner would like to
include more children in the program.
“There are a lot of children in this com-

munity who would like to be in this
program,” she said.

The current limit is 25 children,
due to the small number of volunteers
when the program began.

Right now, Turner is “weighing
the consequences of having more stu-
dents come in during the year, because
it’s ahard group of kids to mesh with, in
general. But if I have enough volun-
teers, I might add some more kids.”
Next year, Turner definitely wants to
include more students.

Turner emphasizes the importance
of training for the tutors. All tutors
participate in an orientation, which in-
volves learning about the mission of the
program, how to interact and discipline
children, and what the expectations are
for the volunteers.

The new tutors will then go through
further training, which Turner hopes to
continue throughout the semester. She
wants to present programs about signs
of child abuse, reading skills, and other
pertinent information, as well as dis-
tribute photocopies of articles about
working with children.

Although the program has not com-
pleted its first year, it has made a posi-
tive impact upon the students’ lives —
an impact that Davidson students helped
foster.

HELP WANTED

Men/ Women earn $375 weekly processing/assembling Medical I.D.
Cards at home. Immediate openings, your local area.

Experience unnecessary, will train.

Call Medicard 1-541-386-5290 Ext. 118M

Be a business success before you graduate.

Avon needs savvy Sales reps.

Call Gloria 609-871-0542

