By Laura CRAVER
Staff Writer

During the Patterson Court Coun-
cil Retreat earlier this month, the Coun-
cil developed a vision statement con-
cerning service: “To provide meaning-
ful and valuable services for the local,
regional, national, or global commu-
nity while exploring ourselves and
strengthening connections with others
in one’s house and with others involved
in Patterson Court at large.”

For the houses, service is part of
the Patterson Court experience. All of
the houses have service chairs who are
responsible for planning and orches-
trating their service projects.

During the retreat, Service Coor-
dinator Bill Abrams led a discussion of
service defining the difference between
recreational and transformational ser-
vice. According to Patterson Court
Service Chair Christine Larned, recre-
ational service is mainly the fun, one-
time participation that is often most
feasible on the Court.

Transformational service, on the
other hand, involves committed ser-
vice, slower results, and direct contact

THE DAVIDSONIAN

with the community. While one-time
projects sometimes work better for
Patterson Court members, Larned feels
that “ongoing projects usually make a
bigger difference and develop relation-
ships.”

Some houses have a specific focus
for their service. For example, Phi
Delta Theta channels much of their ser-
vice attention toward those who suffer
with ALS. “Lou Gehrig, perhaps the
most recognized ALS patient,” said ser-
vice chair Sean Doyle, “was a Phi Delt
in college, so we raise money for the
disease.”

For the past four years, the broth-
ers of Phi Delta Theta have sponsored
a golf tournament to raise money for the
ALS Association of North Carolina.
Doyle said, “Last year, we raised $4,000
for ALS and are hoping to raise even
more money this year.” The brothers
will be working closely with North
Carolina Governor Jim Martin, whose

brother suffers from ALS, “to ensure -

this April’s golf tournament will be the
best yet.”

They have also attended several
support group meetings in Charlotte for
patients and family members of pa-

It's all about making an impact.
Andersen Consulting Information Session—-Wednesday, October 21, The Chambers Gallery, 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.

You know you're more than a piece of paper.
You're bursting with ideas and insights that can
change the world of business. And at Andersen

Consulting, we want them.

As a leading global management and technology
consulting organization, we bring our insights and
ideas to world-class clients to help them achieve

©1998 Andersen Consulting. All rights reserved. An equal opportunity employer.

NEws

tients with ALS.

According to service co-chair Page
Neubert, Turner House hopes “‘to pull
the community together through chil-
dren.” With Catherine Turner, director
of the Ada Jenkins Center, being the
house’s namesake, Neubert thinks that
Turner has an “awesome opportunity
and connection to service in the com-
munity.”

One of Turner’s current projects is
“Choice Tuesday,” when a group of
Turner women go to the Ada Jenkins
Center. It is a “day designed to give the
kids choices,” said Neubert, “because
they don’t get to make very many deci-
sions, nor do they ‘have a lot of free-
dom.”

The women of Turner will assist in
projects such as cooking and crafts.
Turner’s main project for the fall is
currently in the planning stages. Neubert
explained, “We’ve met with Parks and
Recreation and Catherine (Turner) about
putting on a Winter Carnival to take the
place of the Halloween Carnival.” While
there is no service requirement for the
women of Turner, Page has found “the
house to be very responsive to our
projects.” “I think people are psyched,”

We're looking for thinkers. Not Just their diplomas.

profound change. After all, it takes powerful ideas to
align strategy with people, processes and technology.
We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and
expose you to a variety of projects and industries. All
of which builds a solid foundation for your future.
Take this opportunity to talk to us about yourself,
and most importantly, your ideas.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1998

Patterson Court houses make plans to serve

said Page, “because of our connection
to Catherine Turner.”

Phi Gamma Delta participates in
projects through their relationship with
Davidson Parks and Recreation. Their
goal is two Saturday service projects a
month, “Community service,” said
service chair Robert Leacock, “is of
vital necessity to the Fraternity of Phi
Gamma Delta. It keeps our association
as brothers well rounded and allows us
to bond in an environment of giving.”

Emily Willeford, service co-chair
of Rusk, said the goal of service at Rusk
“is to encourage members to engage in
service of others, especially in recogni-
tion of the opportunities that Davidson
presents to us, and in doing so, attempt-
ing to allow opportunities to open fo
others.” ;

Some current projects at Rusk in-
clude helping out with the Children’s
School House Carnival on Oct. 3, par-
ticipating in Home Runs for Habitat
with Kappa Sigma, and chaperoning a
party at the Ada Jenkins Center for
preteens and teens on a Friday night
next month. Willeford continued, “As

‘for long term projects, we are looking

into helping with the American Cancer

Society’s Relay for Life in April.”

Desirae Haylock, Willeford’s co-
chair, named another upcoming project
at Rusk: “We are going to sponsor
Christmas activities with about 10 girls
from the Davidson area who are experi-
encing hard times with school, finances,
and familial relationships.”

Last year’s service projects. in-
cluded the following: Court-wide par-
ticipation in Town Day and the cleanup
of Erwin Lodge; SAE’s golf course
cleanup, valet car service, and bike-a-
thon to benefit the Ada Jenkins Center;
Rusk and Connor’s participation in
Habitat for Humanity; KA/Warner Hall
Carnival with proceeds to the Muscular
Dystrophy Association; Kappa Sigma’s
MADD Run, Home Runs for Habitat,
and work at the Ada Jenkins Center;
Warner Hall’s Crush Cans with pro-
ceeds to the Ada Jenkins Center and
participation in CROP Walk; Phi
Gamma Delta’s Service Saturdays at
the Ada Jenkins Center; Phi Delta
Theta’s Golfing for Gehrig tournament,
cleanup of Grey Road, and participa-
tion in the Ada Jenkins Center Hallow-
een Carnival; and PiKA’s individual
tutoring at the Ada Jenkins Center.

Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

Andersen
Consulting

THERE ARE PLENTY OF ADS IN THIS ISSUE.

Now, HOW ‘BOUT SOME ARTICLES?
| Call Liz. She’ll be happy...

