By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

On Thursday October 15, President Vagt approved the proposal for the Gender Resource Center,
which will be located in the old RLO office in Belk. The plans for the center began last year, and Vagt’s
decision was the culmination of those plans. The Gender Resource Center committee plans to hold a
grand opening celebration there on Saturday October 24 during the Coeducation Celebration.

The center will host organizations such as the Women’s Issues Committee, the Rape Awareness
Committee, the student health advisors, the Gender Studies concentration, the Eating Disorders Group
(part of the Women’s Issues Committee), the Bridges program, and hopefully FLAG. In addition to
hosting these organizations and future groups that grow from it, the center will be open to anyone-
interested in issues of gender. A library with gender issues literature, referral services, counselling
services, an alumni/alumnae database, art gallery space, distrubution of women’s health information,
and a calendar of women’s issues events will all be part of the center. Ann Culp ‘00 of the Gender
Resource Center committee feels that it “will create a central focus.”

Tommy Ross ‘99 also of the Gender Resource Center committee said that the center and committee
hopes “to build a community where gender relations are not constrained by: different biases and
unhealthy modes of interaction that currently constrain the campus.”

The immediate goals of the committee include generating student, faculty, and staff involvement
and finding sufficient funds. Although Culp said, “student involvement has been extraordinary,” Ross
thinks, “the big challenge will be getting students involved.” They both feel that faculty and staff support
is essential because of the smaller turnover of faculty and staff members. Many faculty and staff have
already offered their support. Ross said, “for the most part, the faculty and staff network is already in
place.” Culp echoed Ross, “we’ ve received a lot of support from various members of the faculty and
staff. A lot of people have been looking forward to this for a long time.”

To realize the goal of involving more people, committee member Elisabeth Malphurs’99 plans for
“services coordinated within the center will go out to reach people.” Ross hopes that “exciting
programming” will attract people: “people will come to programming more than the center at first.

Hopefully, they’1l see what the center has to offer.”

In addition to attracting students, faculty, and staff to programs, the committee wants for some
faculty, staff, and student health advisors/peer counsellors to hold office hours at the center. A work

study student may possibly be on staff at the center next semester.

To acquire funding, the committee hopes to combine the donations of several sources. Malphurs
is focusing on the immediate needs for the beginning fundraising: “we need physical things—furniture,
a file cabinet.” Because Culp said that currently “nothing is down there (at the center)—no furniture,
no paint for the walls, “the opening during the Coeducation celebration will also include small
fundraising from alumane by possibly auctioning off parts of future furniture. The committee also
plans to apply for a SGA charter and then for ATC emergency funding. Although the Dean of Students
Office does not have much money to give the center, Culp said that President Vagt, Dean Shandley,
and the administration “have been extremely supportive of the idea.” Ross added, “the President and
the Dean of Students Office have made a personal committment as well as an administrative
commitment to see that the center is successful.” :

In response to criticism of the center being unnecessary, a feminist haven, or exclusive, Culp said
that it “is open to everyone.” Malphurs wants to center even to expand beyond the boundaries of the
college community: “we eventually see the center being opened up to the whole community.” She
continued, “the Bridges program holds great promise in including people from diverse backgrounds
of the college community.” Culp feels the center is important because “it demonstrates that we value
our community; we value various needs of our community.” The center is “a challenge to the
community to look at things like gender and to use it (and) to think about voices in the classroom,
Patterson Court, day-to-day life at Davidson.” Culp summarized, “the College has that issues of gender
are important enought to create a space.”

Malphurs feels that the change in the original name of Women’s Resources Center to Gender
Resource Center signifies the inclusiveness of the Center. She said, “issues that should be called gender
issues are called women’s issues,” and Malphurs wants to center to address “issues of femininity and
masculinity.”

Looking to the future, the committee is currently forming a ten year vision statement that Ross
said “will provide for the future, not year by year.” This mission will hopefully guarntee the center’s
success, unlike the failed previous center, about which Malphurs said “no one knows because it wasn’t
documented.” Malphurs and Ross want the center to be “a campus institution,” instead of an
organization. They intend to use the current center as a “proving ground” to “demonstrate the need”
and then to move to a bigger space.

The center will officially gpen on Saturday, October 24, and Culp, Malphurs, and Culp invite
everyone to use the new resources.

International festival displays Davidson’s diversity

By ASHLEY KING
Staff Writer

Walking up to the international festi-
val, students were greeted at once with an
odd mixture of a reggae band’s metallic
sounding steel drum and a student playing
the bagpipes. These diverse sounds were
only a preview of the cultural mixture that
was to come at the 15th annual Interna-
tional Festival, held in the college Union
on October 4th from 11:00 in the morning
until 3:00 in the afternoon. International
students from across the world displayed
items from their diverse cultures and lands.

All of the participating international
students were responsible for organizing a
booth to represent their respective coun-
tries and presenting items such as pictures
of landscape, exotic food, traditional cloth-
ing, and household items.

The booths were arranged so that dif-
ferent areas of the world were found in
different rooms. In the Morrison room, stu-
dents walked through Central and South
America. Upstairs in the Homeroom were
the booths for Europe. Across the hall in
the Union Conference Room, students pe-
rused the presentations of the many cul-
tures of Africa and Middle East. Finally,
students from the countries in Asia and
Australia exhibited an overview of their
homes in the 900 room.

Each booth carried with it the unique
personalities and stories of the students
who had carefully set them up. Blasting
Turkish music, the members of the booth
for Turkey spent much of their time danc-
ing around the homeroom. In the 900 room,
the Korean booth played Korean pop music
which, the presenters explained, was influ-
enced by both Japanese and American con-
temporary music.

The stories of each country were just
as special as the music each booth chose to
play. Expressing a story of her people,
Dalia Abu-Dayyeh of the Palestinian and
Egyptian booth explained that the delicate
coffee cups on her table had a special sig-
nificance for many inhabitants of her na-
tive Palestine. These cups held a thick tea
which old women would drink. and then
turn over. According to custom, after leav-
ing the cups to dry, the women would then
be able to read the future from the patterns
of coffee stains left on the cup. A picture
of a large stone structure hanging over the
Ethiopian booth told another story. Called

Axum, this ancient structure would dwarf
any human being standing next to it, and
yet, it was carved from a single stone.
Even today, scientists are baffled as to
how anyone could have accomplished this
feat.

The food offered at the different
booths allowed students to explore differ-
ent cultures’ culinary tastes. The Ghana
booth allowed students to taste jollof rice
which was made from cassava, a root veg-
etable, while the booth from Malaysia
gave students the opportunity to try beans
and pork which were wrapped in a sticky
rice and steamed in banana leaves.

The festival ended with a flourish in
the performances of some of the interna-
tional students themselves. From 2:00 un-
til 3:00 PM, students gathered in the 900
room to watch different displays of danc-
ing and skills unique to particular cul-
tures.

To begin the show, each country rep-
resented at the fair presented its flag in
the parade of flags. Walking out proudly
with their flags, students told the audi-
ence both their name and their country,
first.in their native language, and then in
English.

Following the parade of flags,
Mauricio Sauma and Agatha Degasperi
displayed their abilities in Latin dancing.
After a few songs, they invited the audi-
ence to join in, and, following their lead,
a line of people tried their hand at Latin
dancing.

From Korean tradition, the next per-
formance on the list was Dahn hak, a
combination of martial arts, meditation,
and breathing exercises which is known
as Tai Chi in the United States. Led by
Jihoon Hwang, three of his students fol-
lowed him in the exercise which con-
sisted of a series of smooth and forceful
movements set to Korean music and the
beat of a drum.

Following the Dahn hak, professor
Jan Blodgett displayed her talent of belly
dancing in a whirl of color.

The United States was even included
in this mix, as two students played the
harmonica and guitar to demonstrate tra-
ditional blues and country music from
America.

The next performance was a tradi-
tional dance of Spanish and Mexican ori-
gin. Called the sevillanas, four women,
Nora Kizer, Felicia Leborgne, Agatha

Degasperi, and Professor Bollo-Panadero
danced gracefully to Spanish music.

The final performance of the after-
noon was a group of five Davidson men
who played African rhythms on their
drums. The performers were Nowell
Zimmerman, Allen Lee, Bo Huston, Ragy
Ragheb, and Taylor Herbert. With punctu-
ated rhythms and dancing, this group in-
vited the audience to come dance with
them. By the end of their performance a

them to dance.

Sponsored by the ISA and the Cul-
tural Events Committee of the Union, the
international festival invites Davidson stu-
dents to experience others cultures and
ways of life.

Through the time and dedication of
many international students, this festival
shares with the college community the
diverse foods, clothing, music, and ways
of thinking that help to define the differ-
ent peoples of the world.

group of about 20 students gathered around

http://www.ce.columbia.edu

Study Abroad
Visiting Students
Summer Session

Study Abroad

¢ Columbia University in Paris ¢ Berlin Consortium
for German Studies * Summer Fivaram | in Italy
(Scandiano) ¢ Summer Program in Beijing.

Visiting Students

If you need more reasons to be in New York,
Columbia University can provide them!

Summer Session ‘99

You just missed our best summer ever—but it's not
too early to plan for 1999! Bulletin available
February ' reserve yours today.

| Continuing Education & opera Programs

For Study Abroad:

e-mail: s

For other programs:

(212) 854-2820
e-mail: sp-info@cohmbia.edu

GOOD
WEEKLY
INCOME

processing mail for
national company! Free
supplies, postage! No sell-
‘ing! Bonuses! Start imme-
diately! Genuine opportu-.
nity!
Please rush Long Self-
Addressed Stamped Enve-
lope to —

MPC, SUITE 391

2045 Mt. Zion Rd

_ MORROW, GA 30260 .

