THE DAVIDS: ONIAN

‘rumors that Chambers, my favorite place

for late-night studying, may be closed from
one to six inthe morning. Because of the workload
at Davidson, sometimes I need to stay up all hours,
and my room just doesn’t cut it.

Instead of keeping my roommate up with a
glaring light (though the lighting in Irwin seems
much dimmer than Cannon so that I almost have to
squint under the big lights anyway) or straining my
eyes with only my desk lamp, I opt for the much
more roommate-friendly option—Chambers.

Now you could say that I have other options,
but there are few places available to all students at
4 am.

The 24-hour room just doesn’t do it for me

(the libes is fine, just not the 24- hour room). In
fact, [hate it so much that I call it the pit of hell. If
the puke green carpet weren’t enough to grate on
my nerves, the clock could drive me insane.

It announces each new minute with a loud
tick and endless buzzing. In an environment of
complete silence, where the only noise is someone
typing on his laptop, the clock can send me over
the edge.

As for the silence, it makes me nervous
because I receive evil glares with every noise,
however slight, I make. (Sorry, I had to get my
book out of my back pack. I promise.) The glass
windows make me feel claustrophobic as if I were
in a fishbowl in the middle of darkness. Even if I
can survive all of these traumas, leaving the for-
saken place is another trial.

One of my friends has been locked in there
not once, but twice, until someone came thirty
minutes after her call to release her from the jail.
Once I finally am free, the bushes bother me. Yes,
I am a weenie, but my grandmother has joyfully
shared with me too many horror stories for me not
to be wary of walking past dark bushes at four in
the morning.

Thus, I avoid all of those hazards by choosing

Closing Chambers at night will inconvenience studen

S ince the beginning of the year, I’ve heard

Chambers. For me, Chambers is the perfect place
to study. It offers privacy, but you can still share
aroom with your friends and make as much noise
as you like. It’s also more comfortable. :I love the
corner rooms with the huge tables and comfy
chairs. The large tables found in each room (at
least one table in every room) are great because I
can spread out everything.

Plus, I have some control over the tempera-
ture in my room by opening or closing the win-
dows; the 24 just can’t offer that. Windows are
also wonderful because they allow me some
contact with the outside world. (I know that it’s
still there, and I haven’t sunken into the inferno.)
Because there are many rooms, I also know that
I am not alone: there is other life out there!

To add to all Chambers has to offer, the dry
erase boards/chalk boards and the 24-hour com-
puter lab are nice bonuses, and you can study in
the room of your class (this sometimes stimulates
ideas). I can’t think of any better place to try to
cram it all in before an’8:30 am review.

I love Chambers, but'I realize that we do
need to conserve energy. Instead of depriving us
of the best place to study (I wouldn’t want for us
to miss out on part of our Davidson education),

maybe the administration should just make a few
changes. Turning the lights off in unused rooms
would be a good start. The bathroom light really
doesn’t need to be on 24 hours a day, and I think
that Davidson students can handle turning the
lights on and off in the rooms and the bathrooms.

Plus, people can share rooms. Okay, not
everyone can have a big table, but if you go with
your friends you can dish it out. You don’t even
have to share a room with your friends; share one
with a stranger.

I met anice guy named Rob last year when we
had a room-sharing experience. If we can keep
Chambers open, I’m all for sharing. After all, why
else did we go to kindergarten?

Whatever happens, keep Chambers open.
It’s more comfortable for long hours, conducive to
studying,'and better for roommate relations. After
all, RLO doesn’t want to have to deal with too
many roommate problems.

Plus, if we work on conserving energy, the
administration can be happier, and I’m definitely
not alone in my dependence upon Chambers in
times of need. Leaving Chambers open at all hours
can be beneficial to everyone if we practice room-
sharing and turn off unneeded lights.

Three weeks have gone by, but where are we?

es, I’m a freshman— I might
as well be wearing a big sign
that screams “2002.” Ask me

any question and more than likely you'll

get a dumbfounded look. It’s not that I
have a hard time articulating, it’s just

‘that unlike three months ago, I don’t

have a clue. About anything. Indeed,
my transition from a cocky, know-it-all
high school senior to a humbled, naive
college freshman has been far from
smooth.

It all began with the Orientation
Fair. Maybe I needed a group to belong
to or something to do. Or maybe it was
the panicky feeling kicking in from
over the summer: the feeling you get
after everyone on campus has sent you
a letter that needs to be filled out and
sent back within a week. I’m still not

sure if the nurse got my medical form.
In any case, I walked back from the
Orientation Fair feeling involved—
arms overflowing with papers, tele-
phone numbers, and times for introduc-
tory meetings. I even wrote all of my
appointments down on my new wall
calendar to make sure I wouldn’t forget.
Since then I’ve gone to two meetings

and received over twenty voice-mails

reminding me of the meeting I have
tomorrow night, or worse, the meeting
I missed last week.

And now Ihave First Night Down.

First Night Down. I have an image of
this colossal night, September 18, in my
mind, and the only word I can use to
sum it up is chaos. My hall counselors
assure me it’s one of the best nights.of
the semester. Every fraternity and eat-
ing-house on the “Court” (I’ve got the
lingo down) throws a huge party witha
band. So that’s what; 11 bands? All in
a radius of a couple hundred yards?
How? On top of that, I now have 1200
more names I need to learn. As if three
weeks would give me enough time to
learn 400.

Don’t get me wrong, I’m excited

about First Night Down. The hall par-
ties are getting a little old— I’ve seen
more of 3rd Little than I ever wanted
to— and I’m anxious for a change of
scenery. Hanging around in friends’
dorm rooms isn’t really: worth getting
dressed up for either.
“All in all, I think the evening is
something to look forward to in the next
two weeks. I just don’t know what to
expect. So if you see a confused, lost-
looking freshman meandering around,
say hi. It might make me feel better.

Don’t overlook the
sweeter things in life

nteresting time of school year right now,

Will Our Voices Be Heard?

he year is 1978. Disco, psychedelic rock, folk music and ultra-space progressive rock course through the
airwaves of WDAV 89.9 FM as the superfly student DJs spin them. Then one October day the music
stops. At 4:28 pm the Davidson College trustees decided WDAV would play exclusively classical

wouldn’t you say? We’ve gotten through
the beginning, haven’t dreamed of the end,
nd have only just barely conceived of the shape
he middle will take. We’ ve left childish sum-
er-slacking behind but still haven’t convinced
urselves that we really need to start working.
his could be the time that makes or breaks the
est of the school year. Interesting how flip we
e about pinpointing the exact moment when
hings went wrong &
ut give very little
redit to that instant
hen things started
0 go right.
Thinking
bout it, the latter is
o much more im-
portant than the
former. Even
though it takes a lot of either good or bad events
to become a true success or failure, the process
is one of instants. Looking at our deeds, we say,
‘So, what have ya done for me lately?”
Success, or the image of it, seems able to be
touched off with one happening. Failure has a
harder time securing a foothold. Some of the
cynics and pessimists out there will no doubt say
that things could just as easily have gone the
other way.
That's true, but that’s not a very productive
mind-frame, is it? If you think you can, failures
d mistakes are only blips on an otherwise
teady ascent to success. That positive ideology
s a stalwart guard against ruin and fear. But for
uch an important attitude it is remarkable how
asily it can be acquired and renewed.
I don’t know if any of you will remember
last Tuesday evening. It was that day when you
ould first feel fall in the air. Southerners
alked around shivering, wondering what was
oing on, 80 degrees, in September. Northern-
rs buttoned one more button on the polo shirt

and wondered what was taking, the
frost so long. .That afternoon you
could feel fall, but by evening, just
after dusk, it could have been spring.
That great mind didn’t know whether
the sun was rising or setting, whether
we were just pulling out of summer,
or preparing to plunge into it.
Walking across campus that
evening, anything seemed possible. I
could. have
taken on_ the
world. It is
those times
that come
along that
‘ give us that
positive mind
frame. If
we're quick
and recognize them, the future is ours.
If we fail and they slide by unnoticed,
more’s the pity. I guess those days
can go either way. We can choose to
see them as the last great hurrah be-
fore things begin an inexorable down-
turn, or as the event which will cata-
lyze a new accent.
Last Tuesday night ended, as all

dom.

music; at 4:29 pm, 60 incensed WDAV ‘student volunteers walked out of the station forever with the student-
bought control panel and component stereo. The college president at that time, Dr. Samuel Spencer, had decided
to change the student radio station’s format to better serve local classical music listeners although the Student
Government president Bruce Brown, the Davidsonian editor Phil Duncan, and all interviewed students
unanimously opposed this ,
It was, however,
as the official FCC license

The year is 1998. It
fateful day the student ra-
the students. For the past
efforts have been made to-
an FM_ student radio sta-
was first formed in the early
insufficient funding and
port. WALT as we know it has been broadcasting since 1995, first from the basement of Belk and now from
Johnson Gym. This fall WALT will be broadcast into what is left of the Union, and there is talk of Wildcat
athletic games being broadcast. It’s just too bad that, even if the games are broadcast, almost half of the campus
will not hear them because the weak frequency causes a fuzzy reception on some parts of campus. Student radio
has amazing potential, and no one seems to realize that WALT is our most valuable untapped resource. We, as
a student body, deserve to have a student radio station that we can.at least tune in to anywhere on campus.
Unfortunately, that means going FM, and ATC funding is limited. Therefore, the dream is indefinitely thousands
of dollars away. What would the student DJs of the late 70’s say about the fact that twenty years after they
defiantly stormed the studio we continue to broadcast to most of the campus on a weak AM signal? Just how
important is our student voice? Will this student body apathetically continue to be unappreciative until things
we take for granted cease to exist? (ahem, Union Cafe) Please, for the sake of vinyl, tune in to WALT 1610
AM which has already begun its fall schedule. Crank it up, call in your requests (x247 1), and drop by the studio.
This is YOUR radio station—whether our voice will be heard is up to you. _.

violation of student free-
within the Trustees’ rights
holders for the station.

has been 20 years since that
dio was taken away from
two decades, many stalwart
ward the establishment of
tion, but tono avail. WALT
1980s, but it folded due to
lack of administrative sup-

good, and bad, things must, but the

end of something doesn’t mean its
cessation forever. A piece can be
carried always forward with us. I
guess Ihave been talking aboutschool,
but maybe not, maybe something
larger. I find these articles ramble on
as my point deftly eludes me. But if
you wantto know, to feel what I mean,
then go out just as the sun is setting
and try to tell me whether it is setting
on the last great day or rising for the
first glorious night.

Correction

In last week’s Davidsonian Op-Ed section,
Trevor Stanley’s article “Parking gets students’
hearts racing” was mistakenly attributed to
Randy Skattum. We apologize for the error.

