14 TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 1998 _

Women’s hoopsnarrowly beats ETSU, crushes UTC (again)

By ALISON KALetT
‘Staff Writer

With approximately-a month left
in its season, the Lady Wildcat Basket-
‘ ball
team is
defi-
nitely
play-
ing at
its
peak.
Last
Thurs-
day,
the women’s basketball team took on
the University of Tennessee at Chatta-
nooga.

The team cruised to an astounding
84-45 victory. The Wildcats opened

the game with a resounding 22-0 run
and never looked back. Among the
standouts for the Wildcats were Jen
O’Brien, who scored 17 points with
seven steals and seven assists, and Kerry
Brown and Jessica Montrella, who
added 12 and 10 points respectively.

All three women shot better than
50 percent from the field. The Wildcats
also played an excellent defensive game
holding UTC’s leading scorer to only
five points, while earning 23 points
from steals alone.

Undoubtedly, this overwhelming
victory only added to the Lady Wild-
cats growing confidence. The Wildcats
have been playing excellent basketball
of late and are in no way hitting a mid-
season slump.

At this point the Wildcats hold a
14-7 overall record. More importantly,

at 9-3, they are tied with Furman for
second place in the Southern Confer-
ence, with Georgia Southern. having
only a slightly better record.

Three days prior to last Thursday’s
UTC win, the Women’s Basketball team
defeated Eastern Tennessee State Uni-
versity in an exciting overtime game.

The key to the 83-77 victory was a
total team effort. Four Wildcat players
scored in double figures. Jessica
Montrella had 20 points to add to eight
rebounds, three blocks, and four assists,
Jennie Vanlerberghe had 16 points and
seven rebounds, Kerry Brown contrib-
uted 14 points and an amazing 15 boards,
while Jen O’Brien added 11 points, 10
rebounds, and nine assists, breaking the
Davidson single-season assist record.

Other standouts for the Wildcats
included Katy Kamp, senior Danielle

Mall, and senior Jennifer Sanborn who
had nine, seven, and six points respec-
tively. Because of excellent teamwork,
the Wildcats were able to nullify the 17-
point performance of ETSU freshman
Leslie Buleson.

Looking ahead, the Wildcats have
12 more regular season games. Un-
doubtedly, all the remaining games are
key for the team, yet it is difficult not to
look ahead to Feb. 16, when Furman
comes to Davidson.

However, the Lady Wildcats need
to stay focused on this week’s schedule,
in which they host Western Carolina (2-
10) on Tuesday, and play UNCG (7-4)
on Saturday. Both teams are confer-
ence opponents and are therefore cru-
cial games.

On an individual note, point guard
Jen O’Brien is a candidate for All-

American recognition. Only a sopho-
more,-O’ Brien is on her way to break-
ing numerous conference and school
records.

She is currently second all-time at
Davidson in career assists and steals,
and leads the team in three-pointers,
assists, and steals.

Already this season, she is the
conference leader in steals, assists, and
three-point field goals. O’Brien also
holds numerous NCAA distinctions,
such as being tenth in assists and 13th
in threepoint percentage. O’Brien has
also scored in double figures in 17 of
the team’s 20 games.

O’Brien’s efforts will hopefully
lead to the accomplishment of the ulti-
mate goal of winning the conference
and advancing to the NCAA tourna-
ment.

Baseball falls to Duke in opener

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

In the baseball team’s inaugural game, the
Wildcats fell to a solid Duke squad by a score of 8-
3. The loss could not be attributed to any specific

aspect of the team’s

performance. Nei-
Duke 8] ther the team’s
Wildcats 3] pitching, hitting, or

fielding was no-
ticeably bad. It was apparent that the Wildcats
were simply outmatched by their ACC opponent.
The Wildcat’s had six hits to the Blue Devil’s
thirteen, three errors to their two, were even in
stolen bases, and left about the same percentage of
their runners on base (four to Duke’s twelve).
Starting pitcher Eric Bowers set a career high with
eight strikeouts in five inning, while Duke’s starter
and closer had the same number in all nine. The
Wildcats did play well, but Duke managed to
narrowly outshine them in most aspects. »
In addition to his eight strikeouts, Bowers
gave up five hits and three earned runs. He was
relieved by rookie Wes Self, who gave up seven
hits and four earned runs in his collegiate debut. In
the ninth with two outs and runners on first and
third the Wildcats brought in another rookie, Ryan
Stroker. Stroker gave up an RBI single, credited to
Self, before grounding out the final batter.

The top performer for the Wildcats was sopho-
more shortstop Ben Brown. Brown was 3-4 on the
day, with one run, one RBI, and atriple. The triple
came in the eighth when Brown launched the ball
to the fence in dead center. He then scored on the
play when the center-fielder botched the throw.
Brown’s three hits comprised half of the team’s
total for the day.

Davidson’s remaining runs were scored by
sophomore second-baseman Drew Williams and
senior center-fielder Luke Goodwin. Williams’
run came in the fifth after he singled to center with
two outs. He then advanced to second on a wild
pitch and scored on an RBI single by Brown.

In the sixth, Goodwin walked and also ad-
vanced on a wild pitch. The Blue Devils nearly
escaped the inning unharmed when Mike
DeSimone struck out and Marshall Tyler grounded
out. However, Goodwin advanced to third on the
ground out and then went home on a balk.

One surprising aspect of this year’s team is its
youth, The Wildcats started three juniors (Tyler,
LF Brian Joyce, C Kurt Davis), four sophomores
(Brown, Williams, Bowers, 1B Stewart Sloan),
and one freshman (RF Jeremiah Parvin). Both
relieving pitchers were freshman. Another fresh-
man, Tom “Gimp” McGintee, was a potential
starter in the outfield until a 90-mph DeSimone
fastball struck his shin in batting practice and took
him out of the line-up. :

BY BRATTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

In three dual meets this Saturday, the Wild-
cat wrestlers defeated Anderson College as well
as Norfolk State, but fell to UNC-Greensboro in
their second Southern Conference meet. These
two wins raised
the team’s over-
all record to 8-
5-1, but the loss
to UNCG left
the Wildcats 0-
2 against South-
ern Conference
opponents.

The
first match of
the day was
against Ander-
son, whom the
‘Cats had al-
ready faced twice this season. The first match
ended in a tie, but that has been avenged by two
consecutive wins.

Dan Carman won his match by decision
with a score of 11-5, and Andy Sterling won his
match by default. Ian Kaplan, Ronald Williams,
and Ben Wall each won by forfeit. The highlight
of the match was a pin by Gray Broughton, which
gave the ‘Cats six points for a final of 33-15.

The second match of the day was against
Southern Conference opponent UNC-Greens-

conference, UNCG easliy defeated Davidson,

Wrestlers win two but lose
conference match to UNCG

boro. Thought by some to be the best team in the

time of 2:52. ;

The Wildcat’s two victories in the match
were by Kaplan, with a 5-3 decision, and Wall,
with a 6-2 decision. These were still very close
matches for Davidson’s winningest wrestlers this
season.

The wrestlers’ tough conference schedule
continues with dual meets against Appalachian
State, the Citadel, and UT-Chattanooga in addi-
tion to the Southern Conference Tournament in
Greensboro.

The final match of the day saw the Wildcats
avenge a previous loss to Norfolk State. The.two
teams’ earlier meeting was extremely close for
most of the match, but Norfolk State‘rallied to

Sallie McMurray

@ Wildcat catcher Kurt Davis gives the signs to starting pitcher Eric
Bowers in the team’s inaugural game against Duke. Bowers struck out
eight batters and had three earned runs in 5.2 innings pitched.

Runners post solid times at VMI

BY DouGLas CuTTING
Sports Editor

Sparked by a men’s 4x400 finish that ranked
among the ten best ever at Davidson, as well as
numerous strong finishes on the women’s squad,
the. Wildcats returned upbeat from a weekend
track meet in VMI. .

The Wildcats are extremely pleased with the
effort so far this season. Therfirst three weeks have
provided some tough meets in which the teams
have “been competitive and gone out really hard”,
said Coach Andrew. anon

The men’s 4x400 team of Ken Howard, Ade
Artis, Keith Chapman, and Ikenna Myers posted a
time of 3:36.3. In the 3000 m, Josh Cookson ran
a 9:22.1, and Burchett a 9:19.4, followed closely
by Tim O’ Keefe and Scott Hutchins.

In the 55 m dash, Ikenna Myers shined with
a 6:81, which was one of the top ten Davidson
indoor times. Steve Hsieh followed with aa 6:91,
and Matt Brown with a 6:93.

The distance medley relay team of Keith
Gordon, Karim Lawrence, Keith Chapman, and
Thomas McElveen ran an 11:21.00. Milers Steve
Johnston and Matt Hurley finished with times of
4:57.4 and 5:10.1 respectively.

In the 400 m, Ken Howard ran a 53:4 and
Mike Albert a 56:1. McElveen’s 2:07.3 was the
top 800 m time. Ikenna Myers’s speed emerged
once again in the 200 m with another Davidson top
ten time 23:7, followed by Hsieh and Matt Brown.

Jamilah Sawyer finished 7th in a tough
women’s 55 m hurdles field with a time of 8:80.
Kate Feldmeyer ran-a 2:31 to-finish 10th:out of
around 50 runners in the 800 m, followed by Clare
Frey in 17th position.

Suzy Burr and Allie Curran finished 1 0th and
11th out of a large field in the 3000 m. Jill
Neumayer finished 1 0th in the mile run with atime
of 5:33. Lisa Green, who was abroad in the fall and
did not practice with the team, exceeded all expec-
tations by finishing 17th respectively in the mile.
In addition, Michelle Borders ran a strong 200 m.

win the last three weight classes and claim a four
point victory.

This meeting was the opposite of the previ-
ous one. At the end of six classes, Davidson was
losing 15-6, having won six points by a forfeit at
142. The Wildcats proceeded to sweep the rest of
the match.

The first of these wins was a 16-5 major
decision by Kaplan, which added four points to
the ‘Cats total. Kaplan handily defeated his
opponent even though he had moved up two
weight classes from his usual 150 slot.

The next match was the 177 class, in which
Bo Bickerstaff defeated his opponent by a score
of 5-1. This brought the score of the match to 16-
13 in favor of Norfolk State. ~

The Wildcats took a 19-16 lead with a
forfeit in the 190 class, and held on for the rest of
the match. The final match of the day was the
heavyweight class, in which Ben Wall quickly
defeated his overmatched opponent by pin in a

winning eight of ten classes and three by pin.

Tennis loses openers

BY DouGLas CUTTING
Sports Editor

In the season opener, the Wildcats traveled to
Atlanta, Georgia where they competed in meets
against Georgia
Tech and Tulane
on Friday and Sat-
urday, respec-
tively. -The
women faced a
tough Georgia
Tech squad and a
comparable
Tulane team on
the following day.
Overmatched by both opponents, the women

lost each match by a score of 8-1. The highlight of
_the weekend was the performance of rookie phenom

to Tulane, Ga. Tech

Kristin Koenig, who won matches at the #2 singles
position against Tulane and Georgia Tech. The
strong #1 doubles team of Koenig and Dana Casner
also defeated their Georgia Tech opponents by a
score of 9-8.

On Saturday, Casner lost a gut-wrenching
match in the #1 singles spot against Tulane after
taking her opponentto three sets. Amber Bradford,
playing #3, lost a close match as well. Claire
Cheatwood, at the #5 doubles spot, followe

Casner’s lead with a three-set barn-burner
that unfortunately saw Tulane finish victorious.
Casner played another close match against the
Georgia Tech #1 player on Friday, but she was not
able to down the ACC opponent.

The women’s tennis team has its next outing
this Saturday and Sunday at home in the Davidson
Doubles Tournament prior to an away match
against Virginia Tech.
