T

S

Ss Pp Oo kk tt &
E D A

U

Y

Wildcats off to a strong start after Wednesday’s scrimage

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

In some ways, the scrimmage last
Wednesday night against Greensboro
College lacked many of the traditional
hallmarks of a college football game.
The stands were only speckled with a
few handfuls of students, parents, and
local residents. Rather than performing

‘onthe sidelines, the cheerleading squad
was holding practice in T-shirts at one
corer of the field. There was no public
address system up and running. And,
oh yes, only one field goal post was
erected on the field.

But between the sidelines, all these
missing amenities were forgotten amidst
the hard-hitting, fast-paced intensity
displayed by the Wildcat football team
in their first interscholastic competition
of the season.

The Wildcats’ steady, ball-control
offense methodically picked apart at
the Greensboro Pride’s defense, rack-
ing up 26 points. Meanwhile, the de-
fensive squad delivered an impressive
shutout performance.

Head Coach Tim Landis, begin-
ning his sixth season at Davidson, was
pleased with his team’s performance.
“We’ve only been practicing a week
and a day. We were sloppy today, but
that was expected, especially when
you're installing a new offense. But

effort-wise, and things like that, I was
very pleased. The kids played hard,
and it was great to get a chance to hit
somebody else other than your own

guys.
The Wildcat offense was high-

lighted by a strong rushing perfor-
mance. No statistics were recorded in
the scrimmage, but quarterbacks
Tommy Dugan (99) and Shaun
Tyrance (01) along with fullbacks Eric
Ferguson (’00) and Ryan Pagan (’02)
turned in strong games.

Greensboro focused on defend-
ing the fullbacks in the ‘Cats option,
leaving quarterbacks Dugan and
Tyrance room to run. Dugan capped
off the opening drive by dashing un-
touched into the end zone for an eight-
yard touchdown run. And upon enter-
ing the game in the second quarter,
Tyrance racked up some big rushing
yards, in part to a 33-yard scamper
across mid-field in his first series.

LOOKING AHEAD

Coach Landis is pleased with the
talent and efforts of both his quarter-
backs this season. Landis noted that
there is competition for the quarter-
back spot, but he hopes to include both
stars in his offense. “The way I view it
is that Tommy (Dugan) and Shaun
(Tyrance) are two of the best athletes

on the team. And they (both) need to be

playing to help us win.”

Perhaps the most encouraging per-
formance of the night was the ‘Cats’
defense. Last season, the squad al-
lowed a little over 24 points per game.
The loss of NCAA Division I-AA All-
Star Shreve Ariail to graduation leaves
some big shoes to be filled. But the
return of two-year starter Wes Thornton
(°99), Mike Perraut (99), and Freem°an
Belser (01) provides optimism for an
even stronger season.

During the off-season, Landis and
his crew made some personnel changes,
hoping to become a more athletic de-
fensive team.

Yet another change saw one of last
year’s cornerbacks, Clif Henry (’99),
swap positions with former safety,
Donnie Johnson (00). Landis ex-
plained, “That change played to their
strengths a little better.. They’re both
two of our best defensive football play-
ers. But things just seemed to fit a bit
better that way.” Johnson and Henry
join Chad Wright (00) and Rich Hale
('99), rounding out the team’s tradi-
tionally-stellar secondary.

Landis is hopeful that the pieces are
now in place for a strong defensive
season. “Those were some big defen-
sive changes we made. Up to this point,
they’ ve all paid off.”

“The kids played hard, and it was great to get a chance
to hit somebody else other than your own guys.”

Coach Tim Landis

“One such change moved three-year
starting TE Wes Jones (’00) to defense.
Says Landis, “He really provides a
couple of things for us over there: size,
which we lack, and he runs really well,
too.” In addition, the team moved DE
Bo Henderson (’01) to nose guard.

. Henderson was the second-leading tack-

ler on the team last year, with 84. “He’s
awfully quick. He’s strong. He’s tough
to block. He’s going to give centers and
guards a tough time.”

NEW FACES

This year’s incoming freshman
class shows promising talent. Fresh-
man running back Ryan Pagan (5’9”,
185 lbs.) looks to complement junior

Eric Ferguson in the backfield, provid- -

ing an impressive 1-2 punch for the
running game.

Another top recruit, Michael
Tarver (6°0”, 188 Ibs.), has impressed

the coaching staff. Though recruited as
a quarterback, Tarver has been moved
to wide receiver, where he is expected

. to see some time.

Evan Shay (5°10”, 225 Ibs.) is
expected to see minutes on the offen-
sive line, and Sam Fraundorf (6’0”, 200
Ibs) looks to contribute heavily as a
middle linebacker.

Even more importantly, though,
Landis is pleased that the strong return-
ing veterans will give his new freshmen
time to grow and develop. “We're ina
unique situation. For the first year since
I’ve been here, we haven’t had to rely
on freshman to start. Last year, we
started five or six freshman. The year
before that, a half-dozen had to start.

“(Right now), all 22 starters are
upperclassmen. That is a good thing. It
means we’ve gotten better. It means
our veterans have been constantly im-
proving in the off-seasons. It’s paying
off now because we can actually bring
freshmen in, and give them a couple of
months or a year to adjust to college
football. Before, we would have to
throw them right into the fire.”

The Wildcats open up their fall at
Jacksonville University and then at
University of the South, before return-
ing home to play Emory & Henry on
Sept. 26.

Davidson wiffleball teams swing into action for new season

By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

Until now, the most neglected sport
at Davidson College has been wiffleball.
On Saturday, the second season began
play in front of record crowds. While
most of these athletes are not on schol-
arship, they play for love of the game,
personal pride, and beer. Most people
agreed with MVP candidate Mike
Harrington when he said, “Its nice to
see a bunch of overweight, unathletic
beer drinkers use their time wisely.”

The Wiffleball League was the
brainchild of belligerent drunk Rich

Glenn ‘98. This year the torch has been
passed to the new commissioner, Gra-
ham Williams. Williams is alsoamem-
ber of the preseason favorites, 105F.
While winning a championship is im-
portant, being part of history drives
many of the players. Bro Krift, an
outfielder for the Cleveland Steamers,
said, “Its a great honor to be part of such
a rich history and to play on the hol-
lowed field of F. I'd never thought Id
get here.” Krift and Williams are just
two of the names that will soon join
with Glenn, Richards, DeSimone, and
Blair in wiffleball history.

In the opener, 105F destroyed the
Pufters of Armour St. 34-5. In what was

Freshmen take the cake

By Davip MoncurE

annual freshman cake race.

The 1.7-mile race, which was first run inthe 1930's, this year ended with the}--
boys’ winner, Dan Gibson, taking home the largest cake, a Wildcat paw. The
paw, made by Suzy Burr and Tab Combs, actually consisted of nine cakes and

took the seniors three days to make.

The choice of the first cake went to the boys because it alternates years
between the sexes; last year the girls had first choice.
® The idea of the cake race came from Pete Whittle, Davidson’s track coach
from 1930-1971, and in the first race not only were cakes a prize, but a top finisher
could also have been awarded a haircut from a local barber shop.
The race usually has 50 cakes for both the top 50 men and women finishers;
however, this year there were only a grand total of 85 cakes. Support for the race
must increase in the future for the race to stay alive, according to many

supporters.

| SCOREBOARD
Football :
Davidson 26 |

Greensboro College 0

Staff Writer .

Cake, cake everywhere. That was the aight at the finish line of the 61st

Gibson finished with the top time for the boys, 8:26. Following him were
Paul Irwin, Derek Brown, Chris Norbet, and Jacob McClean.

The top girls’ finisher was Lucy Billingsley with atime of 10:21. Following
her were Caroline Little, Carolyn Stumpf, Sarah Otto, and Rhiannon Ollis.

more great
stuff

more home run derby than a game,
105F went yard nine times against the
Pufters. Williams and teammate Fritz
Porter both homered three times. 105F
showed their depth when John Shaw
came in for Jeff Case. Shaw homered
twice, including a grand slam. One
bright spot for the Pufters was the
performance of Russell Bailey. Bailey
attempted many acrobatic catches, and
he hustled until the final out.

The second game was a sharp
contrast to the first. The Cobras (Max
Nelson, Mike Harrington, Cliff Henry,
and Matt Jung) scored three early runs
and held on for a 3-2 victory over the
Cleveland Steamers. In the final in-
ning, both Tripp Cherry and Scott Geier
had clutch hits, but Marshall Stuckey,
who had several key hits during the
game, became mortal as he made the
final out with two men on. After

Saturday’s action, Scott Geier of the
Steamers attributed the loss to Opening
Day jitters. He said, “We were a bit
nervous playing on such a big stage, but
we came back strong in our next game.”

The highlight of Saturday’s action
was a monster shot by redshirt junior
Braxton Blaylock. Blaylock, who plays
for Mookie, hit his homerun over Build-
ing F in a dominating 11-0 win over

Kappa Sig. Mookie’s magic ended in—

their second game of the afternoon as
they dropped a 7-1 decision to the Cleve-
land Steamers. The Steamers were aided
by the debuts of both Bro Krift and Nate
Hagerman. Krift hit his first homer of
the year. The juggernaut that is 105F
continued to roll in its later games. In
their first true test of the year, they shut
out Baseball 9-0. They later beat KA
13-1 behind two homers apiece by Wil-
liams and Shaw. Williams currently

leads the league with five.

While it was a great first weekend
for the Wiffleball League, there were
some minor problems. Commissioner
Williams was a bit concerned with the
quality of the competition. He said, “I
had to work a lot harder putting down

~ the chalk on the field than I had to work

in that first game.” Lastly, Building F
took a page from the book of the Ari-
zona Diamondbacks and tried to install
a kiddie pool close to the action for both

“athletes and spectators. Unfortunately,

the physical plant had somehow made it
impossible to turn on the water. Max
Nelson, star of the Cobras, said, “From
what I remember, and that’s not much,
Saturday was.extremely hot, yet we
weren't able to use the pool. This is an
outrage which the physical plant must
fix before next weekend.”

Wildcats dominate Greensboro Pride

: By Douc McGutirt
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday, on a typically
balmy evening at Richardson Field, the
1998 Davidson Wildcats gave specta-
tors a glimpse of what the upcoming
college football season could look like.
They crushed the team from Greens-
boro College 26-0 in a three-quarter
preseason scrimmage.

It was the first time this season that
the ‘Cats lined up against players on
another team, and the results were im-
pressive.

DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK |
Graham Williams
-Wiffelball- —
Williams, amember of
105F, homered five times

in three games to lead his
team to a 3-0 start.

Davidson relied on a penetrating,
consistent running game and a hard-
nosed defense, especially on third and
fourth downs, punctuated by an out-
standing play from the special teams
every so often. This is exactly what the
Davidson coaching staff, led by head
coach Tim Landis, expects from the
team this fall in order for them to have
a successful season.

The Wildcats’ defense was able to
shut the lid on every Greensboro threat
throughout the game, especially when
they were backed inside the 20-yard
line.

Ther Sep. 1 @ Unc Charl
ues ine me (7pm)
Fri. Sep 4 Rider (7:30 pm Lt
Sim Se[; 6 Marshall om)
Soot Son Soccer

1 South Carolina (7pm)
seh @ @ East Carp;oma (1 pm)

Sep 1 North Carolina A&T (7 pm)
Sep 4 S.C. State (7 pm) :
Sep 5 Elon (lpm)

Sep 5 High Point (7pm)

Cross Ci ‘ountry

Sep 5 @ App. State

Field Hockey

Sep 6 William and Mary (1 pm)

In one of the most impressive se-
ries late in the third quarter, the defense
forced Greensboro to punt inside their
own 25 yard line. The spegial teams
then came up with a huge play, sacking
the punter and allowing the offense to
take over on the Greensboro 19-yard
line.

They were able to punch the ball
into the end zone to add six more points,
and backup quarterback Shawn Tyrance
ran the ball in himself for the two-point
conversion, resulting in the lopsided
final score.

Men’s Soccer
takes on UNC Charlotte.

Tuesday 7pm
the men’s soccer team-opens
the 1998 season with a key
game against rival UNC
Charlotte. The Wildcats are
looking to avenge Last
year’s 3-@ loss.

