_THE DAVIDSONIAN —

(Schedule of Athletic Events For 9/15 - 9/22

9/15 Women’s Soccer - 7:00 PM
Furman @ Davidson

Volleyball - 7:00 PM
UNCG @ Davidson

Men’s Soccer - 6:15 PM
Liberty @ Davidson

9/16

Sally McMurray

By Setu Davis
Staff Writer

Representing Davidson College with full Wildcat pride during this fall season
is the field hockey team. This group of sports standouts played a hard-fought match
against Radford College last Wednesday, dropping a tough 4-2 decision.

Radford matched up well against the Wildcats and scored three first-half
goals that placed Davidson in a tough position. The goals scored by Radford’s
Laura Morrow with 13:40 remaining and Amy Lorigan with 12:58 remaining were
strong attacks on the Wildcat defense. Finally, Radford’s Sasha Ilkovick scored
with 6:49 remaining off an assist by Laura Morrow. Entering into the second half,
the Wildcats needed to respond.

They met that challenge, fighting their way back into the game with two ht
goals. Sarah Jacob, a freshman from Fredericksburg, Va., scored on an assist by
sophomore Jennie Gold with 31:34 remaining in the second half. Her goal was
followed six minutes later by Gold, scored with 25:56 remaining. Standing at 3-
2, the Wildcats were back in the game.

Eleven minutes later, Radford struck the final, decisive blow of the game with
Rachel Wood’s goal with 14:35 remaining. The game ended in a 4-2 loss for the
‘Cats. ;

In the end, Radford outshot the Cats 17-12. Davidson’s two goalies, Nancy
Livingston and Amanda Mordavsky, played well combining for ten saves.
The Wildcats’ junior goalie Nancy Livingston had seven saves and allowed three
goals in the first half, while freshman Amanda Mordavsky played the second half
and had three saves to one allowed goal. Radford’ s goalie Brooke Peterson had five
Saves.

The shots outside the circle for both teams were even at three a piece, and the
penalty corners were closely matched at nine for Davidson and seven for Radford.
Jennie Gold and junior Kim Ceci led the Wildcats with four shots inside the circle
each. Other contributors for the Wildcats included senior Amy Lamoureux, junior
Kim Ceci, and sophomore Lea Jaegar, all of whom had shots in circle.

Davidson’s next games is at Catawba on Tuesday afternoon at 4:30.

9/18 Men’s Soccer - 7:00 PM

Georgia Southern @ Davidson

Promotion - Village Cupboard Gift Certificates
9/19 Men’s & Women’s Cross Country - 9:00 AM

Davidson Alumni Invitational

Women’s Soccer - 4:00 PM
Morehead State @ Davidson
9/20 Volleyball - 2:00 PM
East Tennessee State @ Davidson
Promotion - Carolina Cones Gift Certificates

Ne

Commentary

By Matt CLIFFoRD
Guest Writer

My father grew up worshipping
men who strapped on black cleats on
sweltering Tuesday afternoons under
_a New York sun and tossed a white
leather ball on a field of grass. They
were gods to him, some otherworldly
creatures that came out to battle wits
and strength every summer and _-bid
farewell in October under the aus-
pices of winter. They wielded wooden
sticks and swatted the white leather
balls into the sky, out of the reach of
achild’s eyes as the ball faded against
the pale white sky. Wearing gloves of
battered leather, these boys of sum-
mer plucked the balls from the sky as
if they had orchestrated its every dip
and carry by the strings of a mari-
onette. On fields of golden grass and
crisp base paths these giants played in
the summer of my father’s youth.

the Polo Fields in Queens, New York,
where into the glove of Willie Mays
would-be triples went to die.

These men played baseball,
America’s pastime, that sport that all
youth grows up with on fields behind
schoolhouses all over the country.
They played it like no others could
ever emulate. These men, men like
Ted Williams, Frank Robinson, Lou
Gherig, Sandy Koufax, Don Larson,
and Roger Maris were above life it-
self in the summertime heat as young
America tuned into radios in cafes or
their own homes. A select few lived
near a ballpark, but of course never

They played on hallowed fields like.

had the pocket change to buy even

bleacher seats. You could find these

hooligans peering under fences and
vaulting over walls to catch a glimpse
of Mantle’s shoulder, or Campanella’ s
catcher’s mitt.

These kids wasting away the sum-
mers were our parents. They played
little league ball with aspirations of
Ebbets Field, and some made it, where
others just slept in the outfield. In the

-summer of 1961, everyone was enrap-

tured with the game of baseball. In-the
other world, America was embroiled in
the Cold War, with missile threats in
Cuba and tensions abound in cold white
offices in urban towers. But on the
fields of gold in Yankee Stadium in
1961, one man with a wooden bat cap-
tured everyone’s attention. Roger Maris
was a calm and quiet boyish man from
Fargo, North Dakota. His stern face
with the crew cut made him seem more
like one of the businessmen so fright-
ened with the world around than a
ballplayer. He strode around the base
paths with impunity sixty times in 161
games in the summer of 1961. People
were either amazed at his feat or en-
raged that he stood next to the immortal
Babe Ruth in the record books for the
most round trippers in season. He was
nota public darling. The media mauled
Maris with questions about his ability
and worthiness to follow Babe Ruth’s
footsteps placed in 1927. Nonetheless,
on the last day of the season, Roger
Maris, clad in Yankee pinstripes, swung
his mighty bat and lifted the baseball
out of the reach of the onlooking out-
fielders. He had placated the mighty
Ruth and baseball’s gloried record was

his with home run number sixty-one.
Roger Maris was my father’s hero.

My dad was a senior in high school, not

much younger than myself. Impression-

- able and naive, my dad longed to be in

New York for that memorable day when
Maris made history. Removed from the
scene like so many other boys in the
nation, he turned inside to see Maris
swing and connect on the pitch. Playing
it over and over.in his mind, my father
placed Maris ona pedestal no other man
has-set foot to. The summer flowed
swiftly past him though, and the mo-

-ment of Maris’ blast was lost in antiq-

uity. My father and I both follow base-
ball frequently. Watching a ballgame,
we lose ourselves in incomplete sen-
tences and comments about that swing,
that pitch, that catch. Amid calls for
peanuts and soft drinks, the game of
baseball consumes us.

This summer as well as the sum-
mer of 1961, baseball consumes
America. It is no longer our nation’s
pastime. Too many free agents, salary
caps, waivers and signing bonuses have
clouded baseball and all sports into an
enterprise rather than a game. The youth
no longer play baseball in little leagues
like they used to. We’ ve been lost for so
long in a world of distractions. A world
of television, multi-million dollar mov-
ies, and too many images to process has
engulfed us. We no longer have the
time, it seems. But this summer, time
has made itself available to us to be-
come enraptured with the game of base-
ball once again.

It was not four summers ago that
baseball players decided that they did
not want to play anymore, or at least not

under current playing conditions and
salaries. They quit our pastime. Could
Maris and Williams have quit their game
for money? They probably could not
have afforded it. In September of 1994,
baseball left us alone, without a Fall
Classic, without our gods of summer.
Baseball has been lost to us since then,
but this summer one man, just as Maris
did in 1961, has brought the game back
to America.

Mark David McGwire is a hulk of
a man. He stands six foot something
and even on television towers over all
our imaginations. In a game which
evolved into more show than statistic,
adoring the stolen base and the flashy
smile more than the double through the
gap inrightcenter field, Mark McGwire
seems plucked from the past and stuck
in a modern ballplayer’s uniform, He is
the old-fashioned ballplayer who can
hit and field, and hit and hit. He is a
quiet and genuine man in the thirty-
seventh year of his life, and this sum-
mer, he lived on the dreams of us all.
McGwire is a classy guy. A one of a
kind father ina day when too many men
lay claim to fatherhood early and leave
their children without a care for the
world of irresponsibility. McGwire is a
consummate team player and a chari-
table man as well, establishing several
charities in Saint Louis where he plays.
This summer though, he attacked the
record no one thought would ever be
touched again, that of Roger Maris’s
sixty-one home runs.

On Tuesday night, McGwire stood
at sixty-one. The script was magnifi-
cent. Saint Louis on a cool September

night. Forty-seven thousand fans poised ,

to glimpse history fly over the wall in

Baseball, the American pastime

left field. Baseball was indeed in the
air. It was in the air even here at
Davidson, in the air at my home, and
in the air surrounding Roger Maris’s
grave, where he has laid since 1985.
Roger Maris’s sons were on hand that
night to see what might happen, what
they feared could happen. Their fa-
ther, still snubbed by an asterisk placed
next to his record that he had more
games toachieve the record than Ruth,
snubbed also by the Baseball Hall of
Fame for thirty years, was now in
danger of being erased from number
sixty-one.

At eighteen minutes past nine
here on the east coast, McGwire sent
apitch ona line drive into history. His
ball curled around the foul pole and
over the left field wall at Busch Sta-
dium in St. Louis. Number sixty-two
flashed on scoreboards in St. Louis,
and McGwire giddily crashed around
the bags, stumbling in ecstasy toward
home plate. The ball he hit raced into
time, past Mike Schmidt and Roberto
Clemente, past Carlton Fisk and
Fenway Park, past the Dodgers of
Brooklyn and the Braves of Milwau-
kee, his ball spanned all of baseball
lore and came to rest in the area be-
yond the left field wall at Yankee
Stadium where a plaque commemo-
rates Roger Maris and the other great
Yankees. I can see it resting on a bed
of perennials below Maris’s bronze
figure. Maris leans to pick it up and
tosses the ball with ease into the sky.
Maris smiles that a man such as
McGwire has surpassed him. Not be-
cause he was better, but because he is
worthy. Because in Maris’s eyes,
McGwire is a hero.

