14

By ALison KALETT
Sports Editor

Last weekend the women’s swim-
ming and diving team fell by a point;
this week it was the men’s turn. Head
coach Rick DeSelm said he was disap-
pointed with the 1 14-113 loss. “We had

the ability to win the meet but we didn’t ©

get it done.”

Heading into the final event, the
400 yard freestyle relay, the Wildcats
had to finish in at least second place to
secure a win over Georgia Southern,
but the ‘Cats finished third by 63 one-
hundredths of a second giving Georgia
Southern a onepoint victory. Although
the meet came down to the final race,
DeSelm was quick to point out that in a
meet this close it is impossible to blame
a single event or individual for the loss.
DeSelm said a lot of other factors, such
as a weak men’s diving team, contrib-
uted to the defeat.

On a positive note, junior Scott
Harper won the 200 yard individual
medley, junior Terry Dolch captured
the 200 backstroke, and sophomore Kurt
Hirsekorn took the 200 breaststroke.
Besides winning the 200 back Dolch
also earned his best inseason times in
the 100 back and the 200 individual
medley. Also, freshman sprinter
Michael Warner had an outstanding
meet. His split time of 47.28 in the 400

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Swim team comes up just short

who swam her fastest 200 yard back-
stroke of the season with .a time of

‘2:12.78. Also, sophomore Elissa

Weddle had a strong performance in the

100 freestyle taking third place overall
while swimming well in the 400 med-
ley and freestyle relays. Senior captain
Kathleen Paffenroth had what DeSelm
termed a “very, very strong perfor-
mance” winning the 200 butterfly in
2:11.58.

Finally, sophomore diver Christa
Conner had possibly the strongest indi-
vidual performance of the meet, win-
ning the 3 meter diving event while
taking second on | meter by one point.
“Christa Conner is getting back to form
on the diving events,” DeSelm said.
“She is coming off an injury and per-
forming much better.”

Concerning the team as a whole
DeSelm said he felt mixed emotions.
“Many people’s times are getting
faster,” he said. “We continue to swim
better throughout the season but we’re
unable to swim multiple events at the
level that we are capable of. We have
trouble in close races.”

The ‘Cats have elected to take this
weekend off, by-passing the Nike East
Cup at the University of North Caro-
lina. Their next meet is Dec. Sth at the
Hargrave Military Academy against
Delaware, Lehigh, and William & Mary.

Last weekend, the women’s bas-
ketball team headed out to Southwest
Missouri State for their much-antici-
pated contest against a national pow-
erhouse in the first round of the WNIT
tournament. Tonight, our men’s team
duked it out against the top-ranked
basketball team in the nation.

Analysts, reporters, and coaches
will probably scour the forty-minute
game tapes of these contests looking
to predict our teams’ future perfor-
mances. But they won’t find what
they’re looking for.

The women were handed what
could have been a potentially-devas-
tating defeat from Southwest Mis-
souri State. As we write this, it re-
mains to be seen whether our men
were able to slay the giant. But win or
lose these early-season match-ups, our
teams’ abilities to succeed throughout
this season will be determined not by

_ TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 1998 -

the final scores of the contests, but by
the hours, days, and weeks after the
clock hits 00:00.

I heard somewhere, “It does not
matter if you fall down as long as you
pick up something from the floor while
you get up.” Pretty simple stuff. Al-
mostsosimpleit’s trite. But truer words
could not apply to ateam coming out of
a season-opener against a national pow-
erhouse.

Pay close attention to the next few
days and weeks. Watch these teams in
their early conference match-ups.
Watch the senior leaders, and the way
these athletes carry themselves on the
court and around campus in the upcom-
ing days. Will they take the games in
stride and grow into a stronger, more
mature team? Davidson is proud to
claim these two talented squads of ex-
citing athletes—likely the best of the
Southern Conference. But their future

seasons are largely dependent on their
psychological reactions to these early-
season showdowns.

Our games against Southwest
Missouri State and Duke were sea-
son-openers against non-conference
opponents—not SC championship
games in late February. It’s quite likely
that we’ll return from the Coliseum
tonight and have a tally in the loss
column for each of our school’s bas-
ketball teams. But even if this is the
case, it is entirely possible that in a
few months we will look back on
these contests and their aftermaths,
and be proud to claim decisive victo-

ries.

@ Anarticle last week on Dana Casner
included an incorrect spelling of her
last name. The Davidsonian regrets
the error. A re-print of the corrected
story is below.

yard medley relay was the best in men: Every summer since 1965, AMIGOS has provided an opportunity to over
Davidson history and, more importantly, Georgia Southern 114 19,000 high school and college students to live and serve in Latin America.
helped the ‘Cats win the 400 IM overall Wildcats 113 : : : :
witha time of 3:30.99. Warner also had Countries Served Projects Administered Skills Developed
Tessser 100 fee iz collsde history. : Mexico Community Sanitation Communication
Looking ahead, DeSelm says the East Carolina 129 Honduras Family Health Promotion Leadership
team’s goals should include better con- Wildcats 110 Costa Rica Environmental Education Interpersonal
ditioning in order to win close races and Dominican Republic Dental Hygiene Foreign Language
a heightened sense of urgency when the women: Ecuador Home Improvement Cross-Cultural Sensitivity
me “On the women’é side, the ‘Cats Georgia Southern 81 Paraguay Family Gardens Management
dominated Georgia Southern 160-81, Wildcats 160 Bolivia
a re a solid East Carolina squad Brazil Be a volunteer this summer!
Individual standouts for the Wild | 2aSt Carolina 131 Application Deadline: March 15
cats included junior Mary Shell Brosche Wildcats 101 Scholarships Available

Casner closes fall season on high note

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Many athletes relish the precious
few weeks of off-season they have
amidst their busy schedules as student-
athletes. But something tells me that
senior tennis standout Dana Casner just
doesn’t want to stop playing quite yet.

Casner closed her fall season in
convincing fashion, reaching the third
round of the ITA Southeastern Regional
Indoor Tennis Championships at Wake
Forest University on Saturday.

Ninety women from colleges and
universities across the southeast entered
competition last weekend. Casner drew
the eleventh seed.

The Wildcat senior had also com-
peted in the tournament during her
sophomore and junior campaigns, but
with only mild success. But this year
was different.

Casner easily defeated Nena
Bonacic from N.C. State in the first
round, 7-5, 6-1.

After falling behind early in the
second round to University of Louis-
ville sophomore Kelly Whitler, Casner
bounced back to take the second-round
match 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.

Only sixteen players remained as
Casner entered third-round action fac-
ing Duke Blue Devil Karen Goldstein.
Goldstein proved too hot to handle,
defeating Casner 6-2, 6-1 on her way to
finals competition on Monday.

A master of understatement, the
modest senior merely remarked, “It was
a great tournament for me.”

A great tournament that Casner
and her teammates hope will carry her
through the winter until competition
resumes in January. “I’m ready for the
spring,” said Casner, “and the chance to
keep on going.”

The Organization for Tropical Studies (OTS)
and Duke University offer a field-oriented,
science based undergraduate course in

Tropical Ecology, May 30 — June 28, 1999.

CREDITS MAY BE TRANSFERRED FROM DUKE UNIVERSITY.

For information on the summer course or the
semester abroad program, contact OTS » 919 684-5774

e-mail <nao@acpub.duke.edu> « httpyAwww.ots.duke.edu
Summer Course application deadline is Feloruary 26, 1999.

Ma “

providing leadership in educati

J research and the responsible use of natural resources in the tropics.

Amigos de las Américas

For more info contact Jennifer Martin
jmartin@ amigoslink.org

5618 Star LaneeHouston, TX 77057¢800.231.7796ewww.amigoslink.org
...a journey in understanding a world of differences!

Davidson in Cyprus

Summer Program
June 6-July 24, 1999

An informational meeting for the Davidson in Cyprus

Archaeological

Field

School — will

be held on

WEDNESDAY, Nov. 18 at 8:00 p.m. in Chambers 322.

e lots of pictures

e applications

© answers to your questions

e refreshments

_If you are interested but unable to attend the meeting,

please contact Professor Michael Toumazou, Classics

‘Department, x2281 or email (mitoumazou@davidson.edu).
