Jerry Douglas
Band to play
Love on
Thursday

By Kirk WILLINGHAM
Staff Writer

This Thursday, the Jerry Douglas Band will
play Love Auditorium. The band consists of Jerry
Douglas, Maura O’Connell, and Tim O’Brien, but
Douglas is clearly the center of attention.

He plays the Dobro, which is similar to a steel
guitar and is played horizontally, whereas a nor-
mal guitar is played vertically. Although he didn’t
invent the instrument, he has defined the way that
it should be played. Other famous Dobro musi-
cians include Duane Allman, Elmore James, Leo
Kottke, Bonnie Raitt and Muddy Waters.

Douglas is a six-time Grammy award winner
for his work on the Dobro with the Nashville
Bluegrass Band, Alison Krauss, and others. From
its inception in 1990 through 1995, he won the
International Bluegrass Music Award for instru-
mentation on a Dobro. The Washington Post
described his playing in this way: “When Jerry
Douglas slides a bar across his Dobro, the notes
speak, moan and murmur like the human voice.
They are so evocative, in fact, that one longs to
discover the lyrics implied by his phrasing.” As
you can probably tell, this band is not an unproven
bunch of kids looking for their big break, but an
internationally recognized group of musicians.

Jerry Douglas was introduced to the Dobro
when he was eight years old and by the time he was
17, he had toured the country playing with the
Country Gentlemen. In 1978, he released his solo
debut, “Fluxology,” which was just the first of his
many amazing albums. His latest effort, “Restless
on the Farm,” can be heard on WALT 1610 AM.
He has played or recorded with James Taylor,
Garth Brooks, Ray Charles, the Nitty Gritty Dirt
Band (a Davidson favorite in the ’70s and ’80s),
Bela Fleck, Reba McEntire, Randy Travis, Sam
Bush, and many others.

After being asked about the show, one David-
son student said, “Do you like bluegrass? Then
you gotta check out Jerry Douglas on November 5,
because the man gets it done!” With an endorse-
ment like that, how can you go wrong?

Tickets are on sale now and can be purchased
at the Union ticket office on weekdays between
2:30 and 5:30 p.m. or they can be:purchased at the
door (but beware, there is a great deal of interest
outside of the college for this show and it may sell
out). Tickets are just $6 for students and $12 for
faculty/staff. For the general public, they are $18
in advance and $20 at the door. The 8:30 p.m.
show will be in Love Auditorium, with the doors
opening at 7:00. Get there early to get a good seat,
because the show is general admission. This show
is presented by Maxx Music and the DC Union
Concert Committee.

Kirk Willingham is the DC Union Concert
Committee Chair.

WE KNOW, WE KNOW.

WE MISSED:

College Relations

Sd Yesterday, faculty and students celebrated Day of the Dead in the College Union.
The festivities included an alter, traditional food, and a candle-lit walk in FTemprance -
of those who have passed through our lives.

Ry

mate Pitht noe!
FREE
Het Fudge
“an ies hifi you Like!
\ while you're here,
“buy afew asf the

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604
