_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

%
ORS

Le,
.

LIVING

TUESDAY, MARCH 31, 1998

Casino Night antes
up in the 900 Room

By Ranpy SKATTUM
Co-Editor in Chief

As the church bells tolled nine times last Saturday night, the 900
Room was transformed into a mini-Las Vegas casino.

While the sanctified grounds of Davidson College were not dis-
rupted by the majority of unspeakable evils associated with this infa-
mous city, they did allow the arrival of its prized possession — the
ability to gamble.

Slowly but surely, the 900 Room filled with students willing to part
with their stash of 100 patriotic poker chips, supplied cost-free.

From blackjack to roulette to craps, students were able to lose their
“money” in any fashion they desired. Some students actually increased
their holdings. For example, students at the craps table grossed high
earnings due to some lucky rolls of a few box cars and a few snake eyes,
each paying off 30 to 1.

To culminate the evening, and give some players a purpose, if not
another entertaining outlet, an auction was held for everyone involved.
Using earned chips, students bid on a variety of prizes, from earrings to
board games to jelly beans (which were actually worth the most in the
end, costing a hefty 1715 chips for a single bag).

In the end, there were winners and losers, those that stayed till the
end and those that left early. For an event which was not widely
publicized, I’m glad I found out about it and went. My recommendation:
go next year and play the craps table, place your chips in the field, and

cross your fingers.
Sallie McMurray

! REGISTER TO VOTE

STUDENTS ° FACULTY ¢ STAFF
DEADLINE: APRIL 10

This is an important election! If you want to defeat the “Gang of Five” which denied funding for the Arts, be a part of this election.

WHERE: Registration forms can be obtained from the Davidson Public Library, corner of Main Street and Concord Road,

on the Village Green.

SUGGESTION: Register “Unaffiliated.” That way you can vote in the Republican primary and against Joel Carter, a member

of the “Gang” who represents our district.

ALREADY REGISTERED? Please consider changing your registration to “Unaffiliated.” Forms are available at the

Davidson Public Library, also.

Paid for by Leland Park

Do YOU LIKE
TALKING DIRTY?

Georgia Ringle, Health Educator, is now accept-
ing applications to fill four Health Advisor posi-
tions for the academic year ‘98-’99. Health
Advisors will be paid a stipend at the end of
each semester.

If you have an interest in being a peer educator,
designing and putting on hall programs, or have
a special talent or experience, please apply.

To pick up an application, come by the Student
Health Center. Applications are due April 10,
io,

Questions? Call Georgia Ringle at x2902.

AVAILABLE WHEREVER Music Is SoLp

