THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

__TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 19983

Freshman senators focus on the future

By Carrie ARTHUR
Staff Writer

Now that the freshman class has
survived its first semester, cemented
Spring schedules and partied through
self-selection/pledging on Patterson
Court, many freshmen are reflecting on
their first semester of the “Davidson

SGA. She “loves Davidson” and wants
“to see it be all that it can be.” Deen
feels that people should “appreciate the
diversity at Davidson and take advan-
tage of it” as well as work to increase it.

Lee wants to see greater diversity
so that Davidson can “grow in the sense
that it brings people together.” He
believes that more communication is

In Erickson’s opinion, the sorority
issue was the “biggest theme of first
semester.” Deen was “amazed” at the
efficient, “very accurate representation
of the student body” in the SGA’s poll.
Lee was impressed with the SGA’s “very
exhaustive efforts to insure that every-
one was included.”

While the polling could have be-

Freshman/Sophomore Mixer, which
was extremely successful, and are plan-
ning a Freshman Bowl-a-Rama.
Erickson explained that they want
to plan different functions involving
only the freshman class so that the class
can bond before people become too
busy. The senators plan to become
more connected with the freshmen

life.”

Harp is concerned with the “inter-
est issue.” He fears that the SGA
“doesn’t reach a large part of the stu-
dent body with what’s going on” and it
“causes people not to be interested.”
Harp continues that “most people don’t
really understand or care what goes on
with the SGA on a day-to-day basis.”

experience.” Instrumental in
directing this experience, the
freshman SGA senators —
President Jehan Shamsid-
Deen, Dane Erickson, Travis
Harp, Allen Lee, and Monica
Martinez — are also evaluat-
ing their first semester.

As with all freshmen,
first semester was a period of
adjustment for these SGA
reps. ,

Erickson explained that
“like every other freshman
across the country, we were
feeling our way out.” Part of
this adjustment included the
loss of one freshman sena-
tor, Hayes Permar. Permar’s
position was left void until
this Wednesday’s SGA meet-
ing, at which Mike Brady
assumed this vacancy.

Despite that setback,
Erickson felt that “we repre-
sented the freshman class
well.” Harp confirms that
the period of adjustment is
now over. “The senators are
now pretty accustomed to
what’s going on.”

The senators did accom-
plish a lot for their first se-
mester. They were members
of committees, including the
publicity committee and the
polling and résponse com-
mittee that handled the poll
about students’ opinions of
sororities. Allen Lee is the chair of

necessary to create unity. “There are a

come unpleasant, Lee feels that the SGA

@ Freshman senators (left to right): Dane Erickson, Allen Lee, Mike Brady, and Travis Harp. (Not
pictured: Jehan Shamsid-Deen and Monica Martinez.)

through e-mail and voice-mail listings.

He feels that the lack of con-
cern is “not only the fault of
the apathetic people but also
the SGA, because it needs to
make more of an effort.”
Harp wants “to get everyone
involved in elections — to
run and to vote.”

Erickson is work-
ing on the beginning stages
of two projects: fixing the
water pressure changes in
the showers and increasing
the amount of weight equip-
ment in Baker Sports Com-
plex.

Erickson is form-
img committees and is talk-
ing to people from the power
plant about the showers, but
the dormitories are very old
so the problem may be hard
to fix. Erickson is also talk-
ing to the athletic director
and forming committees to
deal with the shortage of
weights. In his opinion, the
equipment at Baker is not
enough for all of the varsity
athletes (except the football
players who have their own
room) and the entire student
body.

Deen, Erickson,

Harp, and Lee are all opti-
mistic about the future“and
about the SGA. As Deen
observes, “The SGA is con-
ducive to making change on
campus.” She'thinks that there will be

ill Bradshaw

COMA, the Council on Minority Af-
fairs, which plans Diversity Week.
Race relations has been an integral
issue facing the SGA. Harp feels that
one of the most important accomplish-
ments of the SGA was the creation of
“open dialogue on race with Martin
Luther King Jr. Day, Diversity Week,
and the African American Fikn Fest.”
Deen agrees that the revival of
COMA is an important success of the

lot of freshmen: intimidated in meeting
people from different backgrounds and
interests,” said Lee.

The senators hope to increase
freshman unity with class activities. In
order to accomplish this goal, Lee en-
courages people to speak out. “We're
here to help,” said Lee.

Deen, Erickson, and Lee also be-
lieve that the polling of sororities was
very important.

did “a superb job” of being impartial.
Deen was also impressed with.the
efforts to streamline the SGA. Due to
the efforts of the senior class president,
the SGA’s perspective on bills has be-
come more positive and efficient.
Looking toward the future, the
senators are planning, as Deen puts it,
“to do so much more” despite their
limited budget. The senators have al-
ready started off the semester with the

~ With the listings, Deen hopes to “make

sure that the freshmen know what’s
going on.”

The senators also have their indi-
vidual concerns. Lee has worked to
increase diversity and unity with
COMA.

Deen wants to “continue to in-
crease freshmen pride and involvement”
even though “the freshmen are gener-
ally active in every facet of Davidson

some “very interesting bills” presented
during this semester.

Harp is also looking toward the
next big challenge —the transition to a
new SGA president. Erickson echoes
their optimism and expresses his satis-
faction. “A better group (of freshman
SGA senators) couldn’t have been
picked.”

Monica Martinez was not avail-
able for comment.

Orr challenges students and faculty with his suggestions

By Jessica GOODSON
Senior Staff Writer

Approximately 15 students and faculty con-
vened Friday afternoon with Oberlin College’s
Dr. David Orr to discuss the development of an
environmental studies major. They also talked
about the incorporation of his criteria for ecologi-
cal design in the new student union, and the
“greening” of the Davidson campus in general.

A discussion followed Orr’s speech on Thurs-
day night, in which he outlined the aesthetic,
pedagogical, and economic benefits of environ-
mentally sound construction.

Through a collaborative effort, it has been the
goal of Oberlin College to-construct a building
using non-toxic and recycled materials. These
materials produce more energy than they use, shed
no waste, actively utilize solar energy, and in some
way, produce a positive cash flow.

Orr presented two arguments in favor of the
prompt introduction of an environmental studies
major, as opposed'to a minor or concentration in
the area, “Your generation faces unprecedented
changes,” said Orr.. He emphasized collegiate
level academics as a means for preparing for this
future. Orr felt that “the education we owe you
should be calibrated to fit the challenges you will
face in your lifetime.” :

“This (environmental decline) will be every-
thing in every-career,” he predicted. “It will affect

you for the rest of your life, and you can be either
relatively competent or relatively incompetent
when facing it. It will not escape you, but your
education will help you navigate that future pro-
ductively. :

“There is a certain critical. mass of courses
and experiences that we want to wrap together into
the environmental studies,” Orr said. ““A minor is
a step in the right direction,” he admitted, “but it’s
easy to take that step and have that be the final
step.”

According to Orr, several things need to
happen before the formation of a major can occur.
This includes a coherent, systematic poll of fac-
ulty, staff, and students, then gauging perspective
student interest in environmental studies and seek-
ing viable sources of funding.

Former chair of the Environmental Action
Coalition (EAC) Amanda Walker expressed con-
cern that, in reality, there was not enough-student
involvement at Davidson. In her opinion, in order
for these types of projects to go forward, there
needs to be an increase in student focus on envi-
ronmental projects and concerns. “I would like to
see everyone involved, everyone feeling like they
have a stake in it,” she said.

_ “We have to be willing to look at a longer
time line,” said Ruth Pittard, speaking from expe-
rience as the Assistant Dean for Community Ser-
vice. “It took us 19 years to get recycling here, and
I was here at the beginning and the end.”

She approaches these new proposals cau-
tiously. “In this case, we may not know what our
cycle is yet. We have a lot of things converging.
I look forward to looking back and thinking this
was a 15-year cycle.

“The most important thing is to make sure
there are people who will provide consistency and
encouragement throughout the cycle,” empha-
sized Pittard.

Orr also suggested that the EAC coordinate
with the community, involving businesses around
Davidson. He also advised that it bring in students
and specialists from other colleges like Middlebury
and Oberlin in order to get a feel for already
established curriculums.

Orr proposed that taking things that we al-
ready do well on campus and developing curricu-
lum around those was also a productive avenue to
explore. He also suggested that the EAC conduct
a campus-wide environmental audit which would
scrutinize everything which goes into the campus
and all the by-products which leave it.

Davidson College already has a service learn-
ing program that involves active research, an in-
ternship program which could potentially em-
brace environmental specialists, and a receptive
community. Each of these could assist in the
realization of the goals and suggestions set forth
by Orr.

The EAC challenged President Bobby Vagt
to begin taking some steps towards a greater envi-

ronmental awareness on the Davidson College
campus. Seeming to resonate with the idea, Vagt
has identified conservation of energy as a feasible
means of cutting the budget over the next ten
years. As Assistant Professor of English Annie
Ingram put it, “this is an enormously inefficient
place.”

Orr acknowledged that ecological design can
be expensive up front, but what you save in the
years that follow makes it cost-effective in the
long run.

“Fifteen years ago Walter Simpson was a
philosophy student at the University of New York
at Buffalo,” said Orr. “Walter challenged the
University to reduce energy and he became their
first Energy Officer. They told him they'd pay him
how muchhe could save them. He now saves them
nine million dollars a year. And that isa cascade
amount; it rises every year.”

As for the new student union, “start with a
positive attitude,” said Orr. “Think, ‘this is do-
able.’ Make this a collaborative project with a
school like Yale. Bring in outside consultants.
This is front-page of New York times material. It
is good press for Davidson. It creates sizzle and
momentum because you’ve got tangible, high
profile things happening.”

With plans for the new Union in preliminary
stages, now is the time for action, said Orr. “Don’t
assume because you’re 19, 20, 21, or 22 years old
that you can’t make changes. Nonsense.”
