More than just recycling

Knee deep in sludge

By JANET AARDEMA
Guest Writer

I visited Cancer Alley this past weekend.
Many of you have probably been there before
without realizing it. Many of you, or your friends
or relatives may even live there without knowing
it. Or perhaps you are fortunate and have no link
to this place but are also unaware of its existence.
That is why I write this article.

Cancer Alley refers to the corridor from Ba-
ton Rouge south to New Orleans that hosts a
disproportionate number of petro-chemical com-
panies, landfills, and other polluting factories.
Not so coincidentally, the residents of this area
happen to be among the nation’s poorest and also
show conspicuously high cancer rates. Cancer
that doesnit discriminate between male or female,
old or young. Why have these people allowed the
businesses to take advantage of them. and their
community? Because many residents are black
and had no legal voice when the factories estab-
lished themselves. And as for new factory con-
struction, the residents are too poor to afford the
legal fees to fight Big Business.

I wasn’t actually in Louisiana this weekend.
I was at an Environmental Workshop/ Conference
in Birmingham, Alabama. Jerome Ringo, an envi-
ronmental consultant and activist, ran a ten-minute
video on the Cancer Alley phenomenon. His
lecture on Environmental Justice that followed
astounded everyone in the audience. No one
wants the big, nasty, smelly industries in their
backyard. But we all support these same compa-
nies and their failure to meet minimal health stan-
dards through our everyday practices as well as
our apathy in not using political leverage to stop
them and our lethargy in adopting environmen-
tally-sound campus practices.

We, as individuals and as a campus, need to
recognize the resounding effects of our activities.
With every wasteful, destructive act we eventually
hurt ourselves through our air, water, and re-
sources. But onan even larger scale our heedless-
ness impacts those below us on the socio-eco-
nomic ladder. We like to use the chemicals and
cleaners and plastics and styrofoams produced by
the polluting companies. We also like to throw
those same items away to fill the landfills that then
contaminate the drinking water of the nearby resi-
dents. (Please don’t disregard this article because
you realize that your parents, and soon yourself
with your fancy degree, can afford to live in a
neighborhood that’s not hear a big factory and
send your trash far away to be buried in the
backyard of someone who can’t afford to live
elsewhere.)

_ with the Sus-

"me (6831).

So this is a plea for awareness. All the food
we buy (and throw away), every time we decide °
itis way too far to walk to class, and every damn
styrofoam or wax paper cup bought in the Union
or recyclables thrown away have effects. Be
your respective humanitarian, environmental,
political, economical, chemical, historical or
whatever: this applies to us all. Consider your-
self now partially informed. There is no excuse
for continuing to contribute to the injustice.

If more sensible practices were applied to
our everyday lives, the positive effects would
multiply and resound as well. For example, our
fine institution would/should be saving money
due to smarter practices: less product purchas-
ing, less waste disposal, and more energy and
water efficient buildings. Then, perhaps, there
wouldn’t be the need to minimize student re-
sources (such as 24-hour Chambers access) in
order to cut costs that should have been avoided
in the first place by using more efficient lighting,

‘heating, cooling, and through individual initia-

tive shown by turning off unused lights.

There are.a thousand ways to justify respon-
sible actions on our campus, so please consider
changing some habits. Especially since David-
son is hosting an Environmental Clinic from
February 12-14, sponsored in part by the Na-
tional Wildlife Federation. Become involved, or
at least minimize contribution against the efforts.
On a side note, to prepare for the upcoming
election,
check out

What is the deal with dates?

By Jenny Hapcoop

others.
seems to have two
One, “date” only
ing when it’s fol-
“function;” and two,
to the day that a pa-
course, I acknowl-
dents are involved in
and Lin no way criti-
that — but what
of Davidson’s popu-

what has happened
traditional dating? Is
fying to call a girl or
them to dinner or a movie or coffee? I don’t know. .. maybe it is. Could it be possible that
asking someone else out only gets easier with practice? So, who wants to be the first to go on
a “real” date?

Student Health Advisor

Over Fall Break, a close friend of mine visited UGA. While there, she encountered an

interesting phenomenon: people at other colleges date! They actually go out. . . unheard of, ©
I know.

Now I’m not saying that people at Davidson have no social lives; they do go out with

However, :

Davidson men

here, “date”
definitions.
‘holds mean-
lowed by
“date” refers
per is due. Of
edge that stu-
relationships,
cize them for
about the rest
lation?

and women,
to the idea of
it truly terri-
a guy, andask

If I’m wrong, if this school really does date (when one leaves campus with a person of

interest with the intention to get to know someone else better), please tell me. Fill the Health
Advisors in, we’d love to hear your success stories. Help us turn this campus around. Dating
can be more than Homecoming and Christmas Cocktails.

www.lcv.org
to see vari-
ous candi-
dates
stances on
pertinent is-
sues. For
ways to help

tainable
Campus De-
velopment
Clinic, call

So grow a
conscience
and _ think
about how
even our
idyllic
Davidson is
part of its
own Cancer
Alley.

| Attention All SENIORS!

Come to the Chambers Gallery at 8:00 pm on
Monday, October 26™ for our Class of 1999
Senior Class Gift Kickoff Party! Food and
beverages will be served. Leave the library
behind for a while and hang out with your

class! Questions? x2113

Coffeehouse. Magically turns your change into
doughnuts. 8:15 - 11:15 p.m.

Benefits Fair. Fair o' benefits. 12:30 - 6:00 p.m.
in the Chambers Gallery.

Images of Women panel. 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Study over grapes ‘n’ Wheat
Thins. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.
900 Room Committee. Can you believe this
doesn't meet in the 900 Room? 9:00 - 10:00 p.m.
in the Home Room. .

Twenty-One Year Old Night. Get down with
your mature selves from 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m.
in the 900 Room.

Andersen Consulting. They love Davidson
students. 3:00 - 11:00 p.m. in the Chambers
Gallery.

Pep Band rehearsal. 5:00 p.m. in the Band
Room (Cunningham Bidg.)

Meditation. Who will be the serenest? 4:30 -
5:45 p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Project Life Ice Cream Social. It's FREE! Woo
hah! 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Photography Club. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the
Wilson Room.

“The Lost Boys.” All of your favorite child
actors from the 1980s get really scared and stuff.
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

8:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Gloria Steinem. Speaks at 8:00 p.m.
in Love Auditorium

the Wilson Room.

900 Room.

day long.

at Love Auditorium

DIFA Information Meeting. 7:00- Coffeehouse. Drop by after your
9:30 class. 8:15-11:15a.m.inthe .

Homecoming ’98. Everywhere, all

FLAG Meeting. 9:00 - 10:00.p.m. in The Write Stuff. Get it? 4:30-6:00 p.m.

Homecoming. Football game included at
2:00 p.m.

Pre-law Society meeting. Pre-noonona
Saturday. 10:30 a.m. - 12:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

Saturday Night Live. Live from the
Outpost, 10:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. .

Dinner. Held in Johnston Gym tonight,

perhaps. Possibly.

Homecoming. Still raging.

Chess Club. Pawns of fury! 7:00 - 8:30
p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Wear your coffee-drinkin’
clothes, shoes in which you can get wet,
and abig smile. 7:30 p.m. -12:30 a.m. at
the Outpost.

Amnesty International. All students wel-
come! 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

Art Exhibitions. Featuring works by
Micaela Amato and Peter Gourfain. 10:00
a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the Belk VAC.
Jumpin’ Java, featuring poetry reading.
As if free caffeine alone weren't enough.
8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.
Carney Sandoe Info Meeting. What's
Carney been up to these days? Find out!
8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

OLAS meeting. 9:00 - 10:00 p.m. in the
Union Conference Room.

