THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & Livinc

Pet shop, anyone?

By MatrHew Moretz
Staff Writer

One minute I’m minding my own business,
the next minute I’m a godfather. I suppose that’s
what I get for going to Mooresville on a whim.
You never know what’ ll happen in that town.

Nestled away behind a small house off North
Main Street lies the enchanted Sea Shell Pet Shop.
I was impressed by the selection. To tell the truth,
this place has more fauna than you can shake a
stick at. Skinks, guinea pigs, ultra-soft kittens,
tarantulas, iguanas, an elderly woman, puppies, a
cacophony of caged birds, enough colorful fish for
fifty seafood platters, marbles, geckos, and kanga-
roo rats, among other things. They also sell a fine
array of racks for two bucks a pound.

I did a lot of aimless wandering as my friends
sought out a fish for their room. There was a
fascinating manual on Labradors that enlightened
as much as it entertained. Moving on, I found the
social skills of the parrots and cockatoos to be
rather limited. To me, the parrots seemed overly
concerned with ensuring my awareness that some
woman named “Polly” desired a cracker. Other
than this morsel of information, we were at an
impasse. (I could have sworn the young one wolf-
whistled at me.)

One couldn't help but overhear a man in a
Harley-Davidson T-shirt loudly assure the elderly
woman that his cockatoos and his lovebirds and all
his spiders were just fine; just fine, but if he could
only learn how to tame those lovebirds of his, the

give him so much trouble lately ‘and sometimes he
just doesn’t know what to do with them and it
would be great if this place had a manual for
training lovebirds to not be so excitable ‘cause you
just can’t have lovebirds doing what they d***
well please, can you? One also couldn’t help but
notice that no wedding band was on this man’s
finger.

The highlight of my wanderings was defi-
nitely a bland room festooned with cages. Yellow-
ing capital letters forming the words “Puppy Pal-
ace” were taped above the door. Yet this royal title
was a bit of a misnomer, for there were many more
kittens than puppies. Being an adamant cat owner,
I didn’t mind this one bit. The elderly woman
allowed us to handle the ultra-soft ten-dollar kit-
tens. We entertained the idea of taking one home
and dodging RLO for three years. But I assure
you, we didn’t buy one. Yeah; that’s the ticket...

The roommates finally got around to buying
their fish, a gorgeous, deep purple betta fish, along
with an assortment of colored marbles for the tank.
As we were leaving the veritable zoo, they chris-
tened the fish/paperweight as Hunter Frederick.
Also, they kindly appointed me as godfather to the
fish for providing transportation to the Sea Shell
Pet Shop. It was an unexpected honor.

Yet with this honor comes great responsibil-
ity. The ride back was spent trying to figure out
how to spoil the child, as all good godparents
should.

Perhaps a miniature castle is in Hunter
Frederick’s future?

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 1998

**Rounders”’
is no gamble

By Puituip STEWART
Staff Writer

“Rounders” is like seeing an old
friend for the first time in years- you
know the person really well, but there
are a few surprises lurking beneath the
familiarity. Most movies dealing with
gambling are violent and have a Ma-
fia-type atmosphere, “Pay up.or die.”
“Rounders” is a typical gambling
movie, but with a lighthearted tone,
colorful characters, and some very
funny lines.

Mike McDermott (Matt Damon)
is a genius card player. He can read
opponents’ faces accurately everytime, .
and he knows exactly where the cards
are at every moment in the game. He
never loses, unti | one day his arro-
gance gets him in trouble and he de-
cides to match wits with Teddy KGB,
hilariously played by John Malkovich.
“The KGB” never loses, and plays
until he has it all or nothing.
McDermott, thinking he can break
Teddy’s winning streak, ends up with
nothing and hence loses his tuition for
law school and his savings.

All that remains is his girlfriend,
who, after he loses it all, never lets him
gamble again.

Flash forward nine months,
Mike’s best friend, Worm (Edward
Norton), is released from jail, and sur-
prisingly enough gets him to gamble
again, causing.a break up between
Mike and Mike’s girlfriend. Worm
has deep gambling debts and we know
exactly what is going to happen from
this point on. Each tries to get the
money back, and along the way there

The Health Advisors Speak

To all of you who ever wanted free, student-managed, confidential health care services, we,
the Davidson Health Advisors, formally present ourselves to you. We are Kim Biemuller, Ed
Diggins, Jenny Hapgood, Anne Stancil and Brett Simpson. Most freshmen have seen us during
hall programming for sex-awareness and alcohol-awareness programs, but for those of you who
haven’t met us and aren’t aware of who we are and what we do, read on!

In short, we are an auxiliary student unit to Georgia Ringle, Davidson’s Health Educator. We
provide counseling on issues such as STDs, illicit drugs, sexuality, alcohol, eating disorders, male
and female contraceptives, and many other topics of concern on often encounters in a college
environment. The best part about us is that our services are free and our conversations fully
confidential.

We are happy to provide these services to Davidson students because we have all had
personal experiences with the aforementioned issues and know how difficult student life can be.
Now, working with our past knowledge and experience, and the training from Georgia Ringle,
we will work our best to help you, whenever you need it. We can even do things like help with
testing-service referrals for pregnancy, STDs (free, confidential STD testing in Charlotte clinics),
and self-help agencies, such as Alcoholics Anonymous.

While we will eventually see most of you all for hall programming during the year, we want
to now stress that we are always here for you. We are students who have lived through the same
pressures and worries some of you may face and are willing to do all we can to help.

How to contact us:
Health Educator:
Georgia Ringle, M.P.H. ext. 2902
geringle @davidson.edu

Health Advisors:
Kim Biemuller ext. 6270
kibiemuller@davidson.edu

Ed Diggins ext.6008
eddiggins @davidson.edu

Jenny Hapgood ext. 6545
jehapgood @ davidson.edu

Anne Stancil ext. 6323
anstancil @ davidson.edu

Brett Simpson ext. 6648
brsimpson @ davidson.edu

will be some fights, some danger, and
perhaps a rematch with the invincible
Teddy KGB. The plot is formulaic, but
the little nuances, jokes, and subtle sur-
prises make “Rounders” a delight to
watch. By focusing on the relationships
between the characters and the way to
make poker a game of skill instead of
luck (I-especially love the speech on
how easy it is to take money from idiot
tourists that think they know how to
play poker), “Rounders” avoids being a
typical movie in its genre.

The movie is taken away by John
Malkovich, much like “My Best Friend’s
Wedding” was taken away by Rupert
Everett. His role is very small, but his
Russian accent and gestures are so funny
and amazing to watch, I had to wonder
how this was the same actor that put a
gun up to a stuffed bunny’s head in
“Con Air”. Matt Damon on the other
hand, seems to be Will Hunting all over
again, a very smart guy that curses a lot.
Hopefully, he won’t turn out to be a
single genre actor, like Bruce Willis.

Martin Landau also gives a great
performance. He touchingly plays
Mike’s law professor, and turns out to
be more important to the plot than would
be expected.

Allinall, “Rounders” is a dialogue
movie. The plot is too simple, the ro-
mantic relationship is underdeveloped,
and the whole point of the movie seems
to be to go from one poker game to the
next and teach us how it all works.
However, we like the lines we hear and
the faces we see. It’s a film worth
seeing, and you’ ll leave knowing never
to play poker in Vegas. Grade: B

$$ Hiring Bonus $$

Servers, Line Cooks, Bartenders

Rainbow Deli of
Lake Norman

896-0091

