By Puitiip STEWART

Staff Writer

There are signs that you are attending a bad
horror movie. Here are just a few that “I Still
Know What You Did Last Summer” exemplifies:
1. You look around, and everyone in the theater is
in high school.

2. The credits roll and you find out that Kevin
Williamson (who penned “I Know What You Did
Last Summer”, the pseudo-watchable prequel)
didn’t write it.

3. Shameless shots of killer protection devices
(mace, triple bolt locks) grace the screen.

4. Scary lights and shadows replace any resem-
blance of a plot and result in mediocre, half-baked
scares.

5. More shameless shots, this time of select
scantily clothed body parts, male and female, that
do nothing for the story.

6. Annoying (no, VERY annoying) characters,

like Brandy, who comes off as an obnoxious snob
who thinks she can act as well as she sings.

7. Generic characters like the ‘mysterious bar-
tender’, ‘the creepy hotel guy’, and the ‘island
stoner’ try to add something to the movie, but fail
miserably.

8. There are enough plot holes to dig to China
with.

9. The best part of the film is the mature com-
ments of those high school students sitting around
you. I found mind wandering, asking questions
like, “I wonder what these kids would do if their
parents were late picking them up.”

Yes, it really is that bad. Let me explain the
plot for you. Girl and three friends win a trip to
Bermuda. It’s off-season there, so there is a big
storm. Scary fisherman guy is the killer again.
Lightning strikes, the wind blows, people die.
Audience screams? Not a chance.

This movie tries to make everything scary.
Here is my favorite example: Jennifer Love Hewitt

is in the tanning bed. It’s raining. She’s seen a
dead body, but nobody believes her. Scary fisher-
man guy comes in and locks the tanning bed up
with a plastic twisty-tie and turns the timer all the
way up. Uh-oh! She screams and the whole gang
comes running.

The music swells, the camera angle tilts, and
the sounds seem to be getting louder. Ok, she is in
a tanning bed. She isn’t going to die. They need
only cut the twisty-tie thing and she will be fine.
THEN they can start worrying about scary fisher-
man guy. But of course they blow it out of
proportion and try to make it scary by banging on
the tanning bed, breaking lights, and then saving
her.

The whole movie seems to follow this theme.
If the characters would just think for one minute
they could figure out what they were doing wrong.
The ‘scary’ scenes in this movie are all like the
tanning bed scene: overblown and overdramatic.
In my opinion, it’s hard to be dramatic when a plot

is nonexistent. It’s so devoid of feeling that when
characters die, you sigh with relief because they
are so annoying.

Movies like these require a gimmick to be the
slightest bit interesting. Earlier this year, I recom-
mended ‘Urban Legend’, a fun horror movie that
was funny and entertaining with an original plot.
‘I Still Know What You Did Last Summer’ lacks
all of these essentials.

In sum, don’t waste your money. Not even
going with a big group of your closest, wittiest
friends or attending a large movie theater with
great sound (I went to the new Regal 22) can save
this movie. The only scary scene is the very last
one. It’s quite frightening, but the payoff is so
lame, that when the credits started rolling, so did
everyone’s eyes in the theater. In other words, the
one scene that might have given the movie some
merit failed. The film (if you can even-call it that)
fails on every possible level. How does garbage
like this get made? Grade: F

Buddhist priests preserve prehistoric cure for impotence

By BriAN CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

The Ginko or Maidenhair Tree (Ginko biloba) is at once a
living fossil, a sacred temple tree, and an herbal pharmacy.
Soon, its leaves will transform from their soft green to bright
yellow, making it one of our campusis most beautiful fall trees.
The ginko has distinctive, fan-shaped leaves that cover the tree.
Like the Dawn Redwood and Cypresses featured earlier in the
year, the ginko is a deciduous conifer, losing its brilliant foliage
in the fall. Unlike many trees, however, this species has single
sex plants, with either male pollen-bearing cones or female
seeds. The females are particularly unpopular, as their seeds
smell like rancid butter that lingers on the skin after contact.
These nuts are harvested (carefully) in the Orient and the white
seed kernel is eaten as a delicacy. Not a true fruit, the female

gametophytes are fertilized by male sperm cells that are called
motile, or swimming, because they depend on water to reach the
seeds.

One of the oldest living species on the planet, this tree has
been around for over 150 million years. The Order Ginkoales
flourished during the Jurassic period, no doubt a popular meal
for the dinosaurs. Fossil evidence shows that Ginko-like trees
grew virtually worldwide. Of this Order, ginko biloba alone has
survived, perhaps because for centuries it has been cultivated
and preserved from extinction by Buddhist priests. Considered
sacred, ginkos are common around temples in China, Japan, and
Korea. Individual trees can grow quite large and sometimes live
over 1000 years. For the last 200 years, ginkos have been
planted in North America.

The extract of ginko leaves is a versatile herbal medicine
that increases blood flow to the brain in addition to being a
strong antioxidant. Each year, itis rumored that an elderly Asian

CELLAR DOOR PRESENTS

DAVE
MATTHEWS
B AN 1 | |

IN CONCERT

WITH SPECIAL GUESTS

 BELAFLECK& THEFLECKTONES

man from this area visits campus to collect the fallen leaves of the
ginko to make his own herbal medicine. Sold commercially in pills
or powders, ginko extract inhibits blood platelet aggregation, and
increases blood vessel elasticity, which helps improve circulation to
extremeties and most importantly, the brain.- Numerous studies
have claimed ginko’s range of effectiveness, slowing the develop-
ment of Alzheimer’s disease, restoring mental function in stroke
victims, preventing hearing loss, and even treating asthma. In
addition, this increased blood flow is an herbal treatment for erectile
dysfunction, a natural alternative to Viagra!

Our campus has several large ginko trees — one behind the
visiting bleachers at Richardson Stadium, and several more in the
President’s backyard. Watch these beautiful and fascinating trees
over the next weeks. The leaves often change suddenly and can fall
shortly after. The ginko’s spectacular colors alone mark them as
sacred, and are a healing force even if they are only consumed with

the eyes.

MAGIC OF CHRISTMAS

Peter McCoppin, conducting

Thr Dec 3
at 8 pm

Sat Dec 5
at 2:30 pm

$15-42

Shumenthal . cellist
Performing

Arts Center

Special Family Matinee

Sat Dec § at 2:30 pm
Fun for everyone. Bring the kids and grandkids. Meet
Santa. Candy canes for all. Kids under 12 half-price.

The magic returns - Charlotte’s traditional
season extravaganza filled with heart warm-
or ing holiday favorites. Returning by popular
demand are the Oratorio Chamber
Singers, Youth Oratorio Singers, Jim
Boyce Steel. Pros, and the Beth
Chorneau Jazz Quartet. Plus Charlotte |
favorite Daryle Ryce, CSO principal
Black, Charlotte
Children’s Chorus, and the Coventry
Handbell Ringers! There's a joyful Sing-
Along to start the season in beauty and style.
A fun and memory-making family tradition.

WFAA

with the CHARLOTTE SYMPHONY Pops

firm WBT Ga

SOs oft

Sponsored by Donald Haack Diamonds.

COLLEGE
DISCOUNT

Thr Dec 3

ordering tickets thru
the

atS pm = ""Gonecroince

or 704 332 6136

Sat Dec 5
at 2:30 pm

Please mention coupon when

