THE DAVIDSONIAN __

Struggling with the present

Last week, The Davidsonian tackled one of its toughest challenges yet during my
editorship: the “flyer incident.” My knowledge of it began with phone calls at the
beginning of that week, when we were finishing up the issue before last. I heard two
or three versions of the story, along with requests for running front-page news articles
and reprinting the flyer itself. :

My first reaction was shock and disbelief: Someone wrote that where? I was, of
course, aware that racism exists on our campus, but I never knew it would take such
a blatant form. But from the (now seemingly ephemeral) discussion the incident
sparked, it was time that it did.

I, along with the rest of the editorial board, was faced with a dilemma as to how
to handle the incident. First, there was the issue of News. The flyer incident was
significant, but it alone wasn’t much of a News story because there weren’t many
concrete facts behind it. We didn’t have a “who,” and therefore we didn’t really have
a“why;” we had a general “when” and a definite “when;” but the “what” was the meat
of the story. Some may say that the “why” was pretty evident, but from a News
standpoint, there was no evidence to prove that. All we could say was that x people
thought it meant y, and by doing that, we ran the risk of polarizing the campus.
Neither did it seem the job of the News section to begin a “proper,” non-polarizing
dialogue. The rigidity of the News section, in this case, proved rather inconvenient
and restrictive, but it was something we were able to deal with because of the
subsequent SGA meeting and forum that provided more concrete bases for the story.

We also decided that re-running the flyer would be dangerous — although it
would provide shock value, it may also have turned readers off so that they would
have missed the real centerpiece, the article. We also feared that the flyer could too
easily be taken out of context and reproduced without the accompanying article
(especially since The Davidsonian — sometimes — makes it onto a web page).

And as for the editorial section, I decided to hold off on stating my opinion until
others had been given a chance to state theirs. Last week’s was one of the most
successful Op-Ed sections this year, I believe. Absent was the rambling that readers
have been complaining about. In Op-Ed we had a solid array of opinions.

[have to say, though, that my opinion somewhat differs from those expressed last
week. I, like so many others, continue to struggle with the flyer incident, and what
it means for our campus. Waiting a week to write this has helped me organize my
thoughts a bit more, but to be honest, I’m still wading through. I think all of us are.
(It disturbs me, though, that the incident — and its ramifications — have been so

quickly dropped from conversation. I thought the point was to begin a dialogue??)

My first question is this: Flyers, posters, and ads are defaced every day. How is
this flyer any different from the Madonna-Rama flyers scrawled with “Come hook up
with drunk sluts”? People see that; they may laugh and walk on, or they may throw
they flyer away, but rarely would it receive this kind of attention. So how is it .
different? Honestly, I don’t know. But it is, and I know that: Why? Is it because we
take racism more seriously than mysogenism? Or is it that racism has a longer history
of “mattering”? My first thought is that there shouldn’t be a difference, but I know
that there is. It’s a thought I’m still working on.

My second question is, is there an excuse for this? Speaking again from a News
standpoint, we really can’t know why the person/people defaced the flyer. There
could have been any number of reasons — most likely, as Dave Rosenberg pointed
out in his opinions piece last week, it was some drunk kid who thought it was funny.
(If they’d really meant it, mightn’t they have chosen a more permanent canvas — like
the BSC? To me, the impermanentinature of the action implies that the perpetrator(s)
were more motivated by stupidity than hatred — but who can tell?) Regardless of
intent, the effect is the same: shock, hurt, the entire range of emotions we went through
when we learned of this. Regardless of intent, it was an offensive act of offensive
words, words that I don’t want to repeat — ever — words that I didn’t want to see on
SGA meeting flyers. ,

But maybe we needed to be shocked for once. Sure, a few of us come out for the
Diversity Week festivities, but shouldn’t every week be Diversity Week? Shouldn’t
mixing with those of other ethnicities and races be a given by now? And yet, it’s not.
Perhaps what we needed to begin a true, on-going dialogue of how race relations work
(or don’t work) was.a flyer incident. My only question now is, how many of these
“incidents” are we going to need before we really get it?

if é

fo. CAEP?

—

Dara.

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR @

Conflicts of double majoring

To the Editor:

Thanks to Sarah Ogden for exposing a real and difficult problem for the current junior class of double majors — the conflict between required senior colloquia in two departments. Although belated for
this particular class, the solution to the dilemma that Ogden identifies is simple: individual major advisors, department chairs, and the Registrar — official advisor to all double majors — need to alert double
majors at the point of declaration that they should take one colloquium in the junior year and the other in the senior year.

That we have not advised effectively to this point owes to nothing so muchas the element in the system that Ogden graciously concedes: double-majoring is new at Davidson and those of us trying to administer
the system are just now discovering its bugs. But please don’t give up on desiring and declaring double majors—or on us. I’m sure we can start getting it right from now on.

_ Cynthia Lewis
Chair, Department of English

Opening celebration for the Gender Resource Center

To the Editor:
_ Now that the Gender Resource Center has opened its doors for an alumni reception and a planning committee has been approved by the SGA, it is ready to be used by students, faculty, and staff. An opening
celebration is being planned for Dec. 3, from 7-9 p.m., but the space is open every day from 10 a.m. - 10 p.m.

Iam writing to invite all members of the Davidson College community to use this space for formal meetings, informal gatherings, studying, displaying art and as a resource center. One can schedule official
meetings through the College Union, but there is also a calendar in the Center if you would like the space to be free for any reason. Do not feel obligated to write why you are meeting in the space, but please
leave a contact person’s name. Once again, I encourage this community to make the Center a comfortable, well-used environment.

Ann Culp
Co-Coordinator Gender Resource Center Committee

Racial issues on this campus

To the Editor:
On Wednesday night, Oct. 28, I was one of the overflow crowd who gathered first in Perkins and then in the Gallery to discuss the racial issues on campus. The students, faculty, and staff who attended

are seeking ways to take positive steps toward a commonly shared goal of increased understanding, awareness, and appreciation of each other. We are looking for action.

Several concrete suggestions were made, and we will see letters of petition regarding course offerings and minority-faculty representation, planning for a Martin Luther King, Jr. holiday, Honor Code
revisions, and several other initiatives. But many of us are still looking for something that we, individually, can do. We know we must continue our dialogue individually and collectively in a variety of settings.
I urge each student to contact a friend, or a friend of a friend, who is a junior or senior in high school. Think of someone who is a student of color, someone who represents a point of view or life style under-
represented on the campus, someone who thinks creatively about issues. If you believe Davidson is a good match for this student encourage him or her to apply to Davidson, and then remain active in the application
process. You can help Davidson College reach out and embrace more students who can contribute solutions to our shared concerns. Do it today.

The staff of the Office of Admission and Financial Aid is committed to attracting and enrolling students who will enrich our lives and help all of us address the hard issues. Each of us can be part of the
solution, and I encourage you to support the efforts of the College in the area of student recruitment.

2 Eleanor Payne
Senior Associate Dean
Admission and Financial Aid
