ALENDA

DAVIDSON COLLEGI

EstaBuisHeD 1914 NEws 2

“The Nation’s c
Foremost College Weekly Attack of the pre-frosh.
Sd Hundreds flock to Discover Davidson.

OPINIONS 8

Enough about sex, already!

Alum disagrees with coed celebration.

Wake blows it.
Men’s tennis moves in for the kill.

SPorRTS 13

Horoscope.
Wes’s favorite part of the section.

A&LIil

> Junior
Tarik Khan
enjoys
spaghetti at
the Project
Life
Spaghetti
Dinner at
the
Outpost.
The
proceeds
from the
fundraiser,
which
kicked off
the First
Night Down
festivities
on Friday,
will go to
help
Davidson
students be
typed for
bone
marrow

compatability.

Julie Failey

Cone lectures on
Malcolm X and Martin
Luther King’s impact

BY LAURA CRAVER
Staff Writer

Dr. James H. Cone, distinguished author and leading black theologian,
presented a two-part lecture series, entitled Martin, Malcolm & America, as part
of the Otts Lecture Series on Wednesday and Thursday night in the 900 Room. The
Religion Department hosted Dr. Cone, a graduate of Garrett Theological Seminary
and Northwestern University and the Charles A. Griggs Distinguished Professor
of Systematic Theplogy at Union Theological Seminary in New York City. He has
written 10 books that have been translated into over nine languages, published
more than 100 articles, and has lectured at over 700 colleges, universities, divinity
schools, and organizations throughout the United States, Europe, Africa, Asia,
Latin America, and the Caribbean. Often referred to as the foremost articulator of
black theology, Dr. Cone has written extensively about the negligence of racial
oppression and the Black Experience in traditional white Christian theology. Cone
became restless and frustrated with theological training that. focused on the
conflicts between Protestants and Catholics in the 16th Century, while overlooking
the current Protestant brutality against black Americans. Drawing on his own
childhood in rural Bearden, Arkansas, and his theological training in predomi-
nately white educational institutions, Dr. Cone has given rise to a movement in
Christian theology that is distinctly black and influenced by the enslavement and
degradation of black Americans. Inspired by what he sees as the “great moral crisis
of racism in religion,” Cone forces Christian theology to come to terms with racial

_ Justice. Emphasizing the inconsistencies he sees in white theology, Cone asks the

question, “How can you enslave and segregate a people and still have the correct
thinking about God?” ;

Dr. Cone spoke intimately to the gathering of the Davidson community, a
mixture of faculty, citizens, students, and local religious leaders, about the
underlying differences and similarities between Martin Luther King, Jr., and
Malcolm X , their “search for the freedom America promised but never delivered,”
and their strong impact on black theology. Although often portrayed as adversaries
with opposing philosophies in the Civil Rights Movement, Martin King, as Cone
referred to him, and Malcolm X were two crusaders whose approaches to freedom
were influenced by geography and religion. Cone argued that while America is
more “comfortable” with King, Malcolm X’s influence should not be denied, and
neither one of these leaders should be misinterpreted or ““mythicized.”

“Admirers of Martin and Malcolm must be willing to consider their limita-
tions,” Cone said, “and critics '‘must recognize their contributions. And, the
greatness of each can be perceived only through the acknowledgment of their
humanity.”

On Wednesday night, Cone corrected common misconceptions of Martin

See Cone Lecture on page 4

Service forum spotlights Davidson youth

BY Liz NEIHEISEL

News Editor

The Davidson College Service Council held the first in a series of
three community forums last Monday, September 14, to discuss the
current situation of Davidson community youth. The forum focused on
programs available through the college and community, the needs still
in existence, and how to meet those needs. :

Jill Williams, co-chair of the Service Council, introduced the
forum to an twenty-member audience gathered in the Homeroom, and
then turned the mediation over to Bonner Scholar Coordinator Justin
Verm. Verm reviewed the purpose and goals of the forum, and
introduced the panel.

The forum panel consisted of community program coordinators
and Davidson residents Jill Cozens and Georgia Harris, Davidson
College Americorps students Moniece Robinson and Eric Knoche, and
Davidson community youth representatives Sandy, William Alexander,
LaDonna Brown, and Bell Williams.

Cozens serves as director of the Davidson Youth Activity Center,

a program established two years ago for middle school youth. The
center provides programming on various Friday evenings for these
students and organizes a panel of youth officers to serve as an advisory
committee to the program. Sandy, A local middle school student, serves
an officer on this council. DYAC runs with the support of parent
volunteers, and is hoping to draw on college volunteers as well. The
program will become affiliated with the Boys and Girls Club of America
in the next year. This support “will make it easier for fundraising and
give (DYAC) a big name behind it,” said Cozens.

Moniece Robinson, a sophomore Davidson Bonner Scholar and
Americorps student, spent the summer working with DYAC, and is in
the process of developing an eight month leadership program. The
program will teach students to brainstorm in a productive way and focus
on effective communication.

Georgia Harris, the Associate Executive Director at the Lake
Norman. YMCA, oversees the teen center at the Y and serves on.the
community development committee for Davidson. Harris attended the

See Service Forum on page 2

ARTS 8 LIVING «0. ciccsissascscedss 10
POIIS LO oecsaspivacees ate eeaniees shes 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

