=

ax

Wildcat swimmers reign

at College of Charleston

By Liz NEIHEISEL AND
MartTHA NEIHEISEL
News Editor and Guest Writer

CHARLESTON, SC - Stern Center pool
rocked with Wildcat pride and enthusi-
asm as the Davidson swim team met
College of Charleston in a dual meet on
Saturday. Davidson, with special help
from their divers, defeated C of C 135 to
104
for the
men
and
125 to
105
for the
women.

“We expected to win the meet, but we
knew it would be a challenge because
we swam some off events,” said head
coach Rich DeSelm.

After leading in the first leg of the
men’s and women’s 400 medley relays,
both teams suffered a serious setback
when they were disqualified for im-
proper exchanges from the butterfly to
freestyle legs.

The Davidson female divers
proved a huge asset to the team, helping
to edge out College of Charleston in
final results. Sophomore Elizabeth
Frazier and Freshman Christa Conner
dominated women’s diving in the ab-

sence of representatives for College of

Charleston.

“We still weren’t all together as a
team,” said DeSelm, “but we were for-
tunate to win the meet through diving.”

Conner, who has quietly broken
three of four school diving records in
her first year of collegiate diving, said,
“Tt was a really good meet to focus on
my diving and getting personal bests
without having to worry about compe-
tition.”

“These girls are going to be great,”

but was joined by Mark Medendorp on
the one meter. Medendorp functioned
as both a swimmer and diver in
Saturday’s dual meet, filling a void in
point standings.

“The team needed some points and
I knew I could help out by filling in
where we were shorthanded,” said
Medendorp, who earned a third place
finish on the one meter. Gamboa fin-
ished fourth to Medendorp on the one
meter and third on the three meter.

Gamboa, who is in his first year of
competitive diving, said, “I feel I can
make a contribution to the team. I was
sorry to see us lose some of our other
divers, but I think we can perform well
and repeat our victory (at Southern
States) from last year.”

Several swimmers shone at
Saturday’s meet, including senior
Freddy Schnell, who won the 800 and
400 meter freestyle events, and swam
anchor leg to the victorious 400 meter
men’s free relay. “He’s good for us at
every ineet,” said DeSelm.

“We were able to take control of
the meet again” after “bad luck with
disqualifications,” said Schnell, citing
1-2 finishes in the 800 meter freestyle
by Schnell and freshman Adam
Kennedy and the 200 meter freestyle by
junior Mike McCabe and sophomore
Scott Harper.

“I think the men’s team is func-
tioning very well together going into
Southern States,” said Schnell.

Freshman Matt West also turned
out three strong finishes, winning the
200 meter individual medley and 100
meter freestyle and swimming as lead
leg to in the 400 men’s relay.

The women, too, saw several out-
standing performances. Sophomore
Suzy Bozzone won both the 800 meter
freestyle and 200 meter individual med-
ley. Bozzone, along with Schnell, were
Athletes of the Meet. Senior Mary Noel

Matt Clifford & Matt West
@ The men’s and women’s teams both rallied to defeat College of Charles-

ton even though both teams were disqualified in the 400 medley relays.

said DeSelm.

George, who struggled in the butterfly

Davidson had only one male diver,
Stephen Gamboa, on the three meter,

See Swimming on page 15

Wrestling team posts best record in twenty years

By BRATTON HoiLMeEs
Sports Editor

The members of the Davidson wrestling team
returned early from Christmas break to embark on
a grueling four-day marathon that took them to
four different cities in three states to compete in a
total of seven dual meets. Despite the tiring
schedule, good competition, and continued lack of
a wrestler in the 134 pound class, the Wildcats
finished the four day stretch with a 5-2 record.

The road trip began on Wednesday, Jan. 7,
with a trip to Philadelphia to compete with
Swarthmore and Lebanon Valley. The Cats easily
defeated both opponents by scores of 26-6 and 37-
7, respectively.

Against Swarthmore, Davidson won six out
of eight matches. Dan Carman, Miles Cox, Jeff

Libersat, and Bo Bickerstaff all won their matches
by decision. Also, Ian Kaplan and senior co-
captain Ben-Wall won their matches by pin; Wall’s
coming in the first period of the match.

The Lebanon Valley meet saw wins for
Libersat, Wall, and senior Andy Sterling. Four
Davidson wrestlers won by forfeit, as well.

On Thursday, the Wildcats traveled to Durham
to take on ACC powerhouse Duke, who dealt
Davidson a 36-12 defeat for its first loss of the
season. Davidson’s points came on wins by An-
thony Albert, Kaplan, and Wall.

On Friday, the Wildcats returned to David-
son for a match against VMI, which in recent years
has been one of the best teams in the Southern
Conference. The Keydets won the meet with a
score of 35-14. The Cats earned their points
through one forfeit as well as victories by Albert

and Kaplan.
Saturday took the team to Lexington, Va., for

dual -meets~against Pensacola Christian, Johns -

Hopkins, and Washington & Lee. Davidson first
faced Pensacola. Christian, a team that the Wild-
cats had not defeated in the past five years. Kaplan,
Libersat, and Wall each won their match. Also,
forfeits went to Cox, Justin Perkinson, and Gray
Broughton.

Davidson won the meet 28-18.

Johns Hopkins took a beating from the Wild-
cats, winning only two weight classes — and one
of those by forfeit. Davidson received wins by
decision from Cox, Albert, Libersat, and
Bickerstaff. Kaplan, Wall, and Ronald Williams
won their matches by pin. Davidson won with a
final score of 39-9.

The Wildcats continued their domination in

Lexington by defeating the host school, Washing-
ton & Lee, by a score of 42-10. Sterling and
Williams won by decision, Cox, Bickerstaff, and
Broughton won by forfeit, and Libersat, Kaplari
and Wall won by pin. Once again, the opponents
won only two weight classes, one being a forfeit at
134.

This hectic tour raised the team’s record in’
dual meets to 5-2-1, the best record for the Wildcat
wrestlers since the ‘70s.

Over the four-day stretch, Kaplan went 7-0
with three pins. Wall was 6-1, losing only to
VMI’s Leslie Apedoe, who is currently ranked
seventh in the nation at heavyweight. Albert
finished the week 4-1, and Libersat finished 5-2.
Overall, the team performed very wellin the seven
meets and proved itself to be the best Davidson
squad in years.

Men’s basketball

Massachusetts 82, Wildcats 66

Wildcats 79, Western Carolina 73

‘Women’s basketball

Wildcats 79, Wofford 66

Wildcats 84, UT-Chattanooga 58

Men’s Swimming and Diving

Wildcats 135, College of Charleston 104

‘Women’s Swimming and Diving ;

Wildcats 125, College of Charleston 105

Wrestling ;
Second of seven at Washington & Lee Wrestling Invitational

\) SDSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK
TAN KAPLAN

Wrestling © So, © 150 lbs.

After posting a 7-0 record in four dual meets earlier this month,

Men’s basketball

‘Tuesday vs. Appalachian State (7:30 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)
Saturday @ Appalachian State (1:00 p.m., WAGI-FM 105.3)
Women’s basketball

Saturday @ Georgia Southern (12:30 p.m.)

Monday vs. East Tennessee State (7:30 p.m.)

Kaplan became the champion of his weight class at the 21st Annual | Men’s Swimming and Diving
Washington & Lee Wrestling Invitational by defeating Travis Sp of | S y vs. Duke/Georgia Tech (1:00 p.m.)
s College by technical fall. He was named the Outstanding | Women’s Swimming and Diving
Wrestler for the tournament, in which seven d, andi d | Saturday vs. N.C. A&T(1:00 p.m.)

his record for the season to 19-4.

Men’s Basketball
vs. App. State
Tuesday ° Belk Arena * 7:30 p.m.
Saturday ° Boone ¢ 1:00 p.m.

This is one of the most important weeks of
the season for the Wildcats as they go up against
the first place team in the Southern Conference
twice in four days. :

