BY ASHLEY E.KinG
Staff Writer

Gloria Steinem spoke at a small
press conference on Thursday, Oct. 22
in the Carnegie Guest House, a few
hours before she would deliver her
speech to a sold-out Love Auditorium.

Taking the microphone from the
podium and sitting down ata table with
the reporters, Steinem and those present
formed an intimate group who could
discuss Steinem’s views in a rather in-
formal setting. The topics which sur-
faced at the conference ranged from the
role of women in today’s society to
Playboy bunnies to the effects of aging.

When one of the reporters asked
Steinem whether she thought they would
see the complete equality of men and
women in their lifetimes, Steinem’ s an-
swer was brief: “You or I?” she asked.
“No.” (The reporter who had asked the
question ‘was young.) “Where is the
relevance of the women’s rights move-
ment today?” one reporter asked
Steinem. In response to this question,
Steinem said that she feels that women
today basically face “two kinds of cri-
ses”: “the one that comes from success”
and “not enough success.”

Feeling threatened by the success
of women who have liberated them-
selves from the old social norm, a mi-
nority of people with traditional views

THE DAVIDSONIAN

about women have constituted what
Steinem called a “backlash” against
the feminist movement. About the
second crisis, Steinem said the public
espouses the major tenets of the femi-
nist movement, and yet, it has not yet
acted upon

these beliefs.

condones.” She then went on to explain
that feminists have said since the rela-
tionship between President Clinton and
Monica Lewinsky was consensual, it was
not sexual harassment. Steinem believes
that Clinton’ s opponents have “succeeded

___ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 1998

Steinem holds intimate session with reporters

ceived the worst treatment of any woman

in the public eye and pointed to the fact

that Lewinsky was forced to divulge

intimate secrets about her life under the

threat of imprisonment even though she

had, in Steinem’s words, “committed
no crime.”

Touching a subject

“We have ma- ‘ . that affects women
jority suppor Steinem said that she feels that women today sncampus Steinem
me Py basically face “two kinds of crises”: “the one oh nate nee

“but we don’t
have equal
pay.” Because
of these two
crises that
women face in
society today,
Steinem be-
lieves that the
women’s lib-
eration move-
ment still has a

that comes from success” and “not enough
success.” Feeling threatened by the success
of women who have liberated themselves from
the old social norm, a minority of people with
traditional views about women have
constituted what Steinem called a “backlash”’
against the feminist movement.

educated women
will face now and
later in their life-
times as they try to
succeed in the busi-
ness world. “Most
campuses are an ex-
_ perience of equality
that women won't
experience again,”
Steinem said. In
Steinem’s opinion,

“distance that
is yet to go.”
Along with her views on. the
progress of the women’s rights move-
ment, Steinem also offered her views
on the current political scandal that
has swept the White House. Com-
menting on Monica Lewinsky,
Steinem said, “It’s been interesting to
see that by and large what the femi-
nists have said is what the public

Thinking 3 years down the road?

in distorting the sexual harassment law.
They have given the country at large the
idea that sexual harassment is any sex
between unequals.”

Sympathizing with Lewinsky,
Steinem said she felt the young woman
was “imprisoned by Ken Starr and by
anyone who says anything about her
looks.” She-thinks that Lewinsky re-

because the women
in a college or uni-
versity are consumers, they are treated
rather equitably. Once they enter the
real world, however, Steinem feels that
this equality between men and women
will become less prevalent.

Steinem also worries that young
women in college will lose their self-
esteem as they learn more about the
absence of influential women in a his-

Good, we already have something in common.

It's all about making an impact.

Sign-ups for Qualification Interviews open now thru Thursday, November 5, at Davidson Career Services.

Qualification Interviews will be held, Monday, November 9.

if you're constantly thinking about the future,
here's a chance to actually do something about it.
Come be a part of a leading global management
and technology consulting organization~

Andersen Consulting.

Together, we'll help world-class clients prepare
for new challenges by delivering profound change.
We'll help unlock their potential for success by

aligning strategy with peopie, processes and

technology-an approach that aliows you to make

an impact from the ground up.
You'll receive first-rate training and guidance,

tory which features mostly men. It has
been shown, Steinem pointed out, that
“in general, women’s self-esteem goes
down with every year of higher level
education.”

The final problem that Steinem
sees for young women whoare attempt-
ing to excel in the business world is that
women are expected to fulfill what she
called a “double role.” Not only are
women expected to prosper as busi-
nesswomen, they are also still expected
to perform on their own their traditional
role in society of raising the ‘children
and taking care of the home.

Although Steinem admitted that
women who choose to be homemakers
are successful in their own way, she
said, “I would call it an even greater
success fora man to stay home and raise
a family,” because she feels that he is
going against the current of society.

After having discussed the hurdles
which young women today must over-
come, Steinem also offered some ad-
vice to young women who are about to
enter the adult world, She said that they
should “spend time with people who
make them feel good about themselves,
not bad.”

Finally, her advice ‘to young
women was to “listen to their own inner
voice and refuse to let themselves be
limited.”

not come talk to us about how, together, we can

help shape yours.

and exposure to 2 variety of projects and indus~

SY9G8 Andersen Consulting. Ali rights teserved, An equa! opportunity employes

tries. All of which builds a solid foundation
for the years ahead. :
Our business is shaping the future. So why

Visit our Web site at www.ac.com

Andersen

Consulting
