By Jere GOLDMAN
Staff Writer

Wednesday, Feb. 18, Jennifer Shewmake, a
representative from the Amigos de las Americas
,, (Friends of the Americans) was in the Morrison
Room of the Union from 3:00-5:00 p.m., looking
for volunteers for their program, which helps
underdeveloped rural communities in Latin Ameri-
can countries. .

Amigos is a nonprofit organization based in
Houston, Texas, that sends roughly 630 volun-
teers abroad every summer to assist various agen-
cies and organizations with projects throughout

_ Latin America. These volunteers supplement the
work force of these organizations for their six- or
eight-week tour of duty in the country.

This summer, work will range from refores-
tation and stove construction in Honduras, latrine
construction and AIDS apvareness education in
Mexico, rabbit farming in Ecuador, immuniza-
tions in Paraguay, English classes in Costa Rica,
repairing homes in Bolivia, and various other
projects throughout Latin America.

These are year-round projects in which
Amigos participates only during the summer,
working in association with government agencies
and international organizations. When the volun-
teers go home, the work continues. And often
Amigos returns to the same communities the next
year, to continue work started the year before.

Amigos de las Americanas was founded in
1965 as “an international, voluntary, not-for-profit
organization that, through service, provides lead-
ership development opportunities for young people,
promotes community health for the people of

‘Latin America, and facilitates cross-cultural un-
derstanding for the people of the Americas.”

Program offers summer opportunities in Latin America

Since 1965, ithas included 18,000 volunteers
working in 15 different countries. Since 1977,
Amigos has been the only youth organization that
has affiliate status with the western arm of the
World Health Organization, the Pan American
Health Organization.

Amigos also has membership in Interaction,
Independent Sector, and the National Council on
International Health.

Applicants to Amigos must apply by Mar. 15.
The requirements for application are simply that

‘the applicant be over 16 years of age and have

either one year of high school Spanish (though two
years are preferred) or two college semesters of
Spanish.

Applicants may apply for either six- or eight-
week tours of duty. Volunteers undergo a week-
end training session in the United States, then are
given specific training when they arrive in country
by veteran members of Amigos.

Scholarships are available for volunteers,
usually in amounts ranging from $100 to $1200,
and some volunteers have received course credit,
when it was applicable to their work in Latin
America. Many volunteers return next summer
for another tour, and experienced volunteers may
be asked to serve as project leaders.

“My brief but powerful exposure to a totally
foreign lifestyle and people has taught me to be
more open-minded,” said Paul Kang, an Amigos
volunteer on Oaxaca, Mexico in 1995, “I have
learned more about myself. All that I have
encountered, done, and learned have come to-
gether to make this the most uplifting and enjoy-
able experience of my life.”

If you are interested in Amigos and missed
the presentation, you can contact Jennifer
Shewmake at 1-800-231-7796, extension 133.

Former governor visits Davidson

By JENNIFER STARR
. Staff Writer

« Douglas Wilder, former Governor of Vir-
ginia, spoke in the 900 Room on Monday night at

7:30 p.m. Wilder, who was the first African .

American elected to be'a state governor, spoke as
part of Diversity Week.

In his speech, Wilder addressed current civil
rights-related issues, shared some of his personal
experiences, and touched on the advances won by
the Civil Rights Movement.

In his speech, Wilder praised the vast gains
that he believes have been made in the area of civil
rights due to the sacrifices of early African Ameri-
can leaders. However, he also suggested that the
cohesion of neighborhoods and families has eroded,
creating problems that were not present during
earlier times. “Despite the gains which have been
made in the area of civil rights, we have lost
ground in other areas,” said Wilder. ‘What is
today is vastly better than what was. In the past,
you couldn’t go toa store, a school, a restaurant,
(or) a hotel because of the color of your skin.

“However, we have lost ground we heldeven
in the height of segregation No president or
Congress gave it to us, nor has any taken it away
from us.

“Much of the blame falls on our own shoul-
ders. Our forbearers gave us moral authority. They
didn’t allow poverty to be an excuse for low moral
behavior. The neighborhood wouldn’t condone
unwed motherhood or murder. Fathers took care
of families and worked along with mothers. There
is not that moral authority in this country today.”

Wilder suggested that politicians should of-

fer specific plans for problem solutions rather than
speaking vaguely about wanting new programs.

However, he suggested that the real answer
to neighborhood problems lies within the local
community, local political bodies, and local
churches. Wilder emphasized the importance of
individual action and involvement.

Wilder also spoke about what he sees as the
future needs and challenges of civil rights and the
African American community. In his opinion, the
“next challenge is leadership. We need leaders to
challenger traditions and challenge doctrines.” He
also commented on current needs to “rebuild char-
acter, instill confidence, and rebuild communi-
ties.” ;

Wilder suggested that it is important that
parents and other community members not try to
overprotect children from all of life’s difficulties.
“We need to tell (children) the truth,” he said.
“Life is never easy for anyone. Life was never
intended to be easy. Isn’t life really about making
something, doing something, (and) being some-
one to the extent that you make a difference?”

In his speech and in the question-and-answer
period that followed, Wilder addressed several
specific issues. He is against teaching students
Ebonics. Instead, he believes that correct gram-
mar and pronunciation are vital in order for stu-
dents to succeed in the real world.

Wilder also suggested that the current stum-

bling block for welfare reform is a need for more —

jobs, not a need for more job training. In his
experience as Virginia governor, he found that
welfare recipients were being successfully trained
for jobs, only to discover that the “jobs just were
not there.”

OONOMRONS

| frequently vomit after eating.
10. | feel guilty after eating.

17. | eat diet foods.

__ 23.1 engage in dieting behavior.

__ 25. | enjoy trying new rich foods.

.

| questions using the following responses:
A=always, U=usually, O=often, S=sometimes, R=rarely, N=never

1am terrified of being overweight.

| avoid eating when | am hungry.

| find myself preoccupied when with food.

| have gone on eating binges where | feel | may not be able to stop.
| cut my food into very small pieces,

lam aware of the calorie and fat content of the foods | eat.

| particularly avoid foods with a high carbohydrate content,

| think others would prefer if | ate more.

11. 1am preoccupied with a desire to be thinner.

12. | think about burning up calories when | exercise.

13, Other people think | am too thin.

14, |am preoccupied with the thought of having fat on my body.
15. | take longer than other people to eat my meals.

16. | avoid foods with sugar in them.

18. | feel that food controls my life.
__ 19.1 display self-control around food.
20. | feel that others pressure me to eat.
__ 21.1 give too much time and thought to food.
22. | feel uncomfortable after eating certain foods.

__ 24. | like my stomach to be empty.
__ 26.| have the impulse to vomit after meals.

Scoring:
3 for never, 2 for rarely, 1 for sometimes, O for always, usually, and often

Total scores under 20 points indicate disordered eating. You might benefit from
further evaluation at the Student Counseling Center (x2451).

—TEST DEVELOPED BY Dr. PAUL GARFINKEL

New Pat Beta Kappa
MEMBERS ANNOUNCED

Meredith Rossney Allen
Christopher Richard Bagley
Meredith Lynn Benke
Travis John Benn
Heather Kathryn Brown
Lauren Ann Cayton
Allison Johnston Coble
Beth Ann Denius
Paul Daniel Dryden
Lorraine Mary Eadie
Matthew Jay Ellis
George Kevin Escaravage, Jr.
' Elizabeth Anne Field
Amanda Gail Fleishman

Anne Allen Ford
, Mary Noél George
Donna Lynn Gribble
Daniel Marshall Guill
Vaishali Gupta
Trevor Glenn Hackman
Kenneth James Howard
Deepa Jayaprakash Kamath
Dayna Ellen Lee
Mary Kathryn Lee
Benjamin Thomas Lukey
Elizabeth Lindsay Maney

The following students have accepted election to
Phi Beta Kappa (Gamma of NC Chapter) and will be initiated on Monday, 23 March.

Carla Diane Marie
Derrick Ray Miller
‘Jaime Chandler Moore
Nancy Elizabeth Morefield ~
Douglas Todd Neumann
Amy Christine Oakes
Nathan Cameron Ohler
Patricia Carole Perkins
Kirsten Leigh Petersen
Jacquelyn Maria Rasulo
Erika Renée Rissing
Jessica Campbell Robblee
Joshua Douglas Roberts
David Andrew Santschi
Ingrid- Lynne Shore
Erin Emily Steffensmeier
Charles Alan Stormont
Gina Casey Strangis
Dara Lin Suderman
Dominick Joseph Talvacchio

Kristina Ruth Taylor —
Diem-Thu Nguyen Thieu
Carrie Elizabeth Van Deest
Laura Amanda Walker
Amy Catherine Whitmore

—Press RELEASE

SHONEY’S

Now Hiring. All Positions.

_ EARN $750-$1500/WEEK

Cornelius

- Flexible Hours, Benefits,
Meal Compensation

Apply at 20657 Holliday Lane

4

Raise all the money your student group
needs by sponsoring a VISA Fundraiser
on your campus. No investment & very
little time needed. There’s no obligation,

so ise not call for information today?

Call 1- 800-323-8454 Ext. 95

HELP WANTED

Be a business success before you
graduate. Avon needs savvy sales
reps.

Call Gloria (609) 871-0542

HELP WANTED

Men/ Women earn $375 weekly process-
ing/assembling Medical I.D. Cards at
home. Immediate openings, your local
area. Experience unnecessary, will train.
Call Medicard (541) 386-5290
Ext. 118M.

