THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ Arts & Livine

The Student Body

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 1998

By ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

College is a confusing envi-
ronment. Everyone tells you that
these are the best years of your
life, but sometimes they feel like
the worst. An inevitable part of
college, especially at an intense
environment like Davidson, is
depression. Thursday is Depres-
sion Awareness Day, and in con-
junction, I want to educate the
student body about this phenom-
enon. Depression takes many
forms and can have different
manifestations. I’m sure all of us
have felt sad or down at times.
Grades, friends, and family all
contribute to feeling sad. We
label these feelings as depres-
sion. While feeling depressed is a
very real part of anyone’s life, I
want to concentrate on the dis-
ease known clinical depression,
which affects many people.

There are two different types
of clinical depression: exogenous
and endogenous. Both occur be-
cause of chemical imbalances in
the brain and both can be treated ;
with therapy and medication. Three common anti-depressant medications are Prozac, Zoloft, and
Paxel. A person suffering from exogenous depression feels depressed as a result of external situations.
(Sometimes this condition is called situational depression.) For example, a death in the family can
result in profound feelings of loss and sadness. While most people grieve for a significant period of
time when a loved one dies, a clinically depressed person cannot recover from his or her grief without
treatment. Endogenous depression is inherent in the person who is suffering. In other words, feelings
of hopelessness and sadness occur without an external stimulus. This form will also continue without
treatment.

The battle against depression — You are not alone

Now that I have explained the
medical terminology of depression, I
want to address the emotional effects.
Often depression can go for extended

‘ periods without diagnosis. This can be
very painful for both the sufferer and
his or her family and friends. Many
people simply don’t understand that
this is a very real disease and it needs
treatment just like other diseases like
diabetes or multiple sclerosis. Here are
the common signs and symptoms of
depression:

*sadness and/or irritably

*changes in weight and/or ap-
petite

*fatigue/loss of energy

*lack of interest/pleasure in ac-
tivities

*restlessness or decreased ac-
tivity

*thoughts of suicide or death

*changes in sleep patterns

If you suffer from any of these
symptoms or have friends or family
members who do, it is important to go
and talk to someone. Simply exhibit-
ing some of the symptoms does not
mean that you are clinically depressed.
The indicator for clinical dépression is
prolonged suffering which lasts for

weeks, months, or even years.

- Depression is usually a silent disease. It has virtually no outwardly visible physical symptoms, but
many emotional and psychological ones. If you feel down in the dumps or sad most of the time, don’t
worry because you are not alone. Millions of people suffer these symptoms everyday. Know that there
are successful methods of treatment for clinical depression, but you have to take the first step and talk
to someone. No one should expect you to conquer depression on your own. It is not a sign of weakness
or lack of character — it is a disease that you should not and do not have to battle without help.

Attention Str
WE ARE LOOKING
FOR. TALENTED

STUDENTS WHO

ARE iNTERESTED
iN SUOWING OFF
THEI2 SKILL IN FRONT ee
OF A CAPTIVE AUDIENCE. --——~

IT’S A GREAT WAY TO GAIN EXPERIENCE,
PLUS-THERED-FZEE-FOOD!

g

Jaspers

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

We are looking for soloists, duets and trios. For more infromation, call Kristin Metzler at

(330) - 273 - 1940 or e-mail at glsoccer @usa.net

