By Manpy Lauria

Staff Writer

On Monday, Mar. 16, there was a dinner in
the Carnegie Guest House to welcome the Haitian-
American poet Ebwidge Danticat. Danticat held a
poetry reading last Tuesday in the Morrison Room
of the Union. Slides from some Davidson stu-
dents’ trip to Haiti were shown after the welcom-
ing dinner. *

This past Christmas break, eight Davidson

. Students traveled to Haiti on a service trip. The

participants in this program were senior Jessica
Roy, juniors Emily Katzfey and Pamela Hockert,
and sophomores Nena Rashed, Yolanda Kirby,
Soosan Calhoun, and Jenny Calhoun. :

Bill Abrams was the group’s coordinator.

The group stayed in Port-au-Prince in an
orphanage where they participated in numerous
service activities. The trip lasted from Dec. 28 to
Jan. 12. The students had to go through much
preparation for their trip. Ten weeks prior to the

ns leads service pr

trip, the students had to attend meetings once a
week to learn about Haitian culture.

The group also raised all of the funds for the
trip themselves. They raised over $11,000 and
even had $100 extra each to cover the cost of
medical shots. The group sold refreshments at a
Checkers and Panthers game in Charlotte, sold
pizza, and applied for grants from the Dean Rusk
program and the Parker Foundation.

The students stayed at an orphanage where
they learned much about Haitian culture. Some of

‘the boys who stayed at the orphanage put on a

performance to help raise money for their home.
These boys had traveled to the. United States to
raise money.

The Davidson students spent one day at the
beach. They took some of the orphans with them.
Some of the orphans learned to swim for the first,
time. The orphans usually do not get to go to the
beach because the beaches are privately owned
and visitors have to pay. The Davidson students

helped in Mother Theresa’s nursery, where sick
children were cared for.

Many children are dropped off by their par-
ents who never return to reclaim them.

The students also volunteered at a home for
sick and dying elderly, Soosan Calhoun described
how much giving the elderly massages, putting
lotion on them, and even painting their fingernails
meant to them.

Haiti is the poorest country in the Western
Hemisphere, which makes the quality of life much
different there. Students had to take baths in a
bucket of water and became aware of how much
we waste every day. Things like electricity,
running water, and telephones were very unpre-
dictable. The Davidson students remarked on
how dirty a Haitian marketplace is. Meat sits out
in the hot sun and garbage is everywhere.

To get from one place to another, the students
had to travel on the Tap Tap. The Tap Tap is a
pick-up truck with benches in the back that can

ject in Haiti

carry about 20 people. To stop the truck, the
passengers tap the windows of the truck, hence the
name Tap Tap.

The students also remarked on how happy ”
Haitians seemed despite their unfortunate eco-
nomic conditions.

The students showed slides of their trip at the
dinner, which was sponsored by Dean of Students
Office, Dean Rusk, the Black Student Coalition,
and many other groups. The slides showed the
children they met, daily life in Haiti, and the scenic
landscape.

NenaRashed and Yolanda Kirby enjoyed the
service trip so much they returned over spring
break. Rashed wanted to continue and.expand on
what they did the first time. She wanted to concen-
trate on medical aspects of care.

Rashed and Kirby sat in on a workshop about
nutrition and child care for new mothers. They
spent more time in Port-au-Prince and were able to
get involved in additional service programs.

UT professor David Rabban discusses free speech

By Carrit ARTHUR
Staff Writer

Think that Americans have always
had unrestricted free speech? Think
again. As Dr. David Rabban told his
audience on Monday, Mar. 16, free
speech from 1870° until World War I
was limited.

Rabban is a professor at the Uni-
versity of Texas law school at Austin.
He graduated from Wesleyan Univer-
sity in 1971 and Stanford in 1974. He
has published “Free Speech in Its For-
gotten Years.”

While writing his seminar paper at
Stanford, Rabban wondered why there
was no discussion about free speech
from the time after the Constitution

until the Espionage Act during World
War I. In fact, the common assumption
was that there were no Supreme Court
level cases about free speech before
World War I.

Rabban quickly found that this
assumption was wrong. Surprisingly,
legal decisions were “overwhelmingly
hostile to free speech.” In fact, the

courts were more hostile to free speech ©

than any other organization.

Supreme Court Justice Oliver
Wendell Holmes (who is traditionally
thought to have protected free speech)
and the Supreme Court upheld the bad

‘tendency theory of free speech.

Rabban said this clause stated, “if
speech has a bad tendency on the public
welfare, it was not protected by the First

Amendment.”

This claim even extended to pun-
ish published speech for its bad ten-
dency on public welfare. Rabban said
that this idea cande from “English com-
mon law of free speech at the time of the
American Revolution as augerated by
the great British jurist Sir William
Blackstone.”

Although scholars and the general
public disagreed with this bad tendency
clause, Rabban said that “this was the
approach in hundreds of American cases
before World War I.”

Rabban added that “there were a
few court decisions that protected free
speech, not by the Supreme Court, but
by the lower courts and the state court
system.”

By Becky LaTANICH
Staff Writer .

Beginning this month, any stu-
dents (male or female) who find them-
selves. victims of sexual assault will be
afforded the opportunity to deal with
the situation immediately, profession-
ally, and confidentially, thanks to the
formation of the new rape crisis-inter-
vention group knownas First Respond-
ers. , :

This student-run subcommittee
of the recently chartered Rape Aware-
ness Committee is comprised of 15
professionally-trained students, both
male and female, who are qualified to
be the “first responders” in a sexual
assault crime.

The primary aim of First Re-
sponders is to provide basic counsel-

ing services as well as serve as a re-
source center for locating support groups
or receiving legal guidance.

Counselors are available 24 hours
a day, seven days a week, and offer both
telephone and person-person counsel-
ing sessions. .

Additionally, First Responders will
take any caller to the hospital upon
request.

An ‘integral aspect of First-Re=~

sponders -is-confidentiality. All coun-
seling sessions, whether conducted over
the phone or in person, are guaranteed
to be private and confidential. *

There is no pressure to report the
incident to any authority, although the
counselors will be more than willing to
aid anyone who desires to pursue such
a course of action.

First Responders deal with sexual assault

Tina Kanter, President of the Rape
Awareness Committee and Co-chair
of the First Responders subcommit-
tee, urges all students to understand
that the counselors are completely non-
judgmental and are willing to speak to
anyone at any time of the day.

Students should also be aware
that counselors may be changed upon
request. If a caller does not feel com-
fortable speaking to the first First Re-
sponder, another will be provided.

The First Responders’ pager num-
ber is 356-3126.

The number can additionally be
found posted on every R.A.’s door.

To receive further information
regarding the Rape Awareness Com-
mittee or First Responders, contact
Tina Kanter at X6502.

Several organizations arose to de-
fend free speech, and the most active
was the Free Speech League.

From the broader, more protected
free speech rights of today, some people
are calling for limits upon free speech,
what Rabban calls.a “New Deal of free
speech” that would weaken rights “to
allow for legislation in the public inter-
est.” Rabban said that these people
think that society is “too concerned

for 40, Jasper’s delivers!

guests.

896-1881

127 Depot Street, Davioson, NC
Coupons accepted Monday-Thursday

with the individual and not community
welfare.” These people believe that the
First Amendment now protects the rich
and powerful who hurt people. Rabban
fears that people have forgotten the
hard lesson of the bad tendency clause:
“The state does not always act in be-
nevolent ways.”

Rabban finished by saying, “be
wary of restricting speech even if you
don’t agree with it.”

INTRODUCING CATERING BY JASPER’S

Whether you're hosting an intimate gathering for 2 or a celebratory feast

Jasper’s of Davidson is pleased to announce their new full service catering.
Full service means we take care of everything~ from soup to nuts, wine
glasses to dessert forks~ And you do nothing but relax and enjoy your

Also, remember to dine with us for innovative Intemational cuisine,

“Lunch Served Mon-Ffi Dinner Served Mon-Sat ~
11:30am-2:00pm 6:00-10:00pm

{reservations recommended Fri-Sa)

Jasper’s

Your Passport To
FINE DINING

How bo I GET THAT FIRST JOB?

HAVE YOU EVER WONDERED:

Wuat Goop Is A DAVIDSON DEGREE IN THE JOB MARKET? W#at CAN I DO. NOW TO BECOME MORE MARKETABLE? '

WHERE DO I GO AFTER DAVIDSON?

Hear young alums share their answers to these and other questions.

Wedenesday, March 25, 7:00 p.m.

Sponsored by the Premanagement Committee

Carolina Inn Lounge ~

