“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
a
Don’t BE AN Aprit Foot!

WALT unplugged.
Silenced by technical difficulties.

NEws 4

Not everything sucks.
But Sarah does.

OPINIONS 9

Agents of Good Roots
Spring Frolics band previewed.

A&L10

McKillop wanted.

Interest in “Cats coach?

SPoRTS 15

Lottery Night successful
despite 22 on wait list

By RACHEL WIPPOLD

next year at all.

; Sallie McMurray
@ Students waited in line last Wednesday to choose their rooms for next year. Although some
students were wait-listed, Holmes feels positive about their chances of getting a room.

Staff Writer

Last Wednesday night answered the question burning in
students’ minds since receiving their fluorescent yellow
copies of the “1998-99 Lottery Booklet.” Now not only do
most students know with whom they will live next year, but
also where. Students gathered in Chambers Gallery on Mar.
25 for Lottery Night, anxious about whether they would .
receive their first choice, or if they would have a room for

Before Lottery Night, many first-time lottery partici-
pants expressed concern about the difficulty of the process.
However, numerous students were surprised by the ease and
swiftness with which they chose a room. Freshman Jessie
Brown, experiencing lottery for the first time, stated her
feelings with relief: “Dang! That was easy. They made it out
to be so complicated.”

Kuyt Holmes, Director of Residence Life, also shared
incredulity at the efficiency and order of Lottery Night. He
seemed pleased that it remained peaceful throughout the
selection of rooms. Holmes remarked that, similar to years
past, Duke Residence Hall went to students fastest. How-
ever, the similarities to previous years ends there. Usually
Sentelle, then rooms down the hill, are snapped up next. This
year, with the exception of Duke, rooms remained in each
building at an equal ratio until the last group of students
passed through. Holmes postulated that this was partly due

See Lottery Night on page 2

RLO responds to theme living controversy

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

Since its original proposal last fall,
theme living at Davidson has grown
from a virtual unknown to the most
hotly contested topic for debate since
the sorority issue. The possibility of
theme living came_to. fruition last-se-
mester, when the Residence Life Office
advertised theme living forthe 1998-99
school year.

Assistant Director of Residence
Life Deanna Jordan played a key role in
bringing the program to campus and
acts as director for theme halls. “The
whole point of theme living is to give
students the opportunity to make a con-
nection between what goes on in the
classroom with what goes on outside
the classroom,” said Jordan.

An integral part of theme living
serves to expose students academically
and culturally to topics of interest out-
side of a traditional academic setting.
The stated purpose and mission of theme
living is to “offer students increased
opportunities to make connections be-
tween their lives inside and outside of
the classroom.” This goal directly re-
lates to RLO mission statement: “The
- Residence Life Office at Davidson Col-
lege is dedicated to providing an envi-
ronment for students that supports and
advances their academic performance,
provides co-curricular learning oppor-
tunities, and encourages individual so-

cial development. The Residence Life
Office fosters the establishment of com-
munities where individuals are re-

. Spected, diversity is promoted, and stu-

dents learn from one another.”

Directly related to these goals, the
application states, “Each Theme Living
group should create an environment
conducive to helping its members meet
their individual and community. goals,
as well as providing a new dimension
for the college community.”

Advisors to the program, includ-

ing program faculty advisor Magdalena .

Pefia, showed concern about groups
removing themselves entirely from
mainstream Davidson.

“We did not want any theme to
cluster off into its own world and stop
interacting with the rest of the world,”
said Jordan. Safeguards against suchan
occasion are included in the application
process. Students are required to re-
cruit at least one faculty advisor and
identify a program chair who will work
directly with the Residence Life Office.
Program chairs must help to develop a
comprehensive living environment.
Themes must offer programs open to
the public on a regular basis, whether
that public encompasses the hall, the
building, or the entire Davidson com-
munity. Other safeguards include a
yearly evaluation process by faculty,
students, and RLO professional staff. -

The application itself delineates
several proposal requirements, includ-

ing a statement of goals and objectives
of the theme, statement of organization,
summary of program possibilities which
exhibits continuity, a signed roster of
student members and designated chairs,
and a statement of the cemmunity im-
pact. A primary consideration in the
evaluation process concentrates on
whether the theme has a positive impact
on the residents and surrounding com-
munity.

A further concern of the students
was how theme living would affect di-
versity on campus. RLO directors pur-
posefully required that all themes be
academic to hopefully avoid this occur-
rence. “We already have a kind of
clustering that goes on, which is why
we limit fraternity and eating house
members on the same halls. Nonaca-
demic themes don’t really have a place
here right now, ” said Jordan.

“T think that some students really
fear that the diversity is being taken
away from their hall because one of
these groupsis primarily African Ameri-
can students,” continued Jordan. “But
these students are not living together
for social reasons. They’re living to-
gether for more academic reasons. The
whole basis of them living together in a
group is for discussion about the two
different themes they have.”

Jordan hopes to encourage this
discussion within the groups and with
outside guests. For example, the Afri-
can American Culture and Society

theme houses both African American
and Caucasian students. This diversity
enhances the theme demographically
and allows for developed discussion.
Jordan has suggested that the Christian-

ity and the Teachings of Jesus Christ -

theme invite members of diverse faiths
to engage in conversation.

Jordan said, “There are certainly
social benefits for the students who are
living together in these two themes, but
those benefits would exist for any
theme.”

The question of diversity and its
implications has evolved further in re-
cent opinions articles of The
Davidsonian. “I think what we’re see-
ing now at Davidson for the first time
since | arrived last summeris a real, true
discussion about race relations. I don’t
want the concept of theme living and
this discussion to become so intertwined
that they become one issue,” said Jor-
dan.

“Because both of these themes
don’t have their own academic depart-
ments per se, I think there is some
misunderstanding about what these
themes mean. Students don’trecognize
how these themes are true academic
focuses or studies because we’ ve never
had that academic department here.”

Jordan stated that some of the op-
position may be due to a fear of change.
“Students have such ownership in
Davidson and what it’s all about, so
they get very scared when. you start

————— eee —————————————————————————————————

“We did not want any theme to cluster off into its own world and stop interacting with the rest of the world.”
DEANNA JORDAN, ASSISTANT DIRECTOR OF RESIDENCE LIFE

talking about changing what’s already
there,” she said. “But this doesn’t need
to be something that every student at
Davidson wants. If you’re not inter-
ested in theme living, don’t participate
in it.”

Theme living, similar to the pro-
gram offered at Davidson, currently
exists on several of Davidson’s peer
institutions and various North Carolina
education establishments, including
Wake Forest, Duke University, Elon
College, and the University of North
Carolina system.

“Theme living is not going t6 have
an impact on every student at Davidson.
If students choose not to participate,
they don’t have to participate,” said
Jordan.

“If this theme living experience
brings to the students who are partici-
pating in it a fuller experience at
Davidson, we'll have met one of our
biggest goals, because that’s what it’s
all really about,”

EDITORIALS: scubabstewecese 6
TOBTDERS 5seccksscsccesevsceases 6
OPA oie ssisusdihi cccascsetent 7
ARTS & LIVING ......... 10
SPORTS iocacsusavnta 16
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
' Davidson, NC 28036

