long hiatus from The Davidsonian. I’ve
had numerous fans come up to me and ask
why [haven't written in a while. These people are
desperate. Clearly, my column had provided some
sort of emotional stability, and I— what did I do?

HF irst, [would like to apologize for my month-

— I took it away from them. -I’m sorry.

The truth of the matter is, I didn’t especially
feel like writing in a newspaper that tends to make
up its own news instead of reporting on events that
actually happen.

Take the College Bowl, for instance. There
was nothing at all about the tournament in the
paper, even though it was the greatest event since
the Snapple guy came to the Union and dished out
free stuff.

Absolutely nothing:

There were about 15 articles, however, about
this donnybrook at Sig Ep. For all I know, that
could have been something The Davidsonian made
up entirely.

And then there was this article on Momix
written by a “critic” with a 13-year-old’s mental-
ity. I’m sorry, but any review that includes the
phrase, “Oh yeah, you know how daddy likes it”
bears no literary merit whatsoever.

To say the least, my faith in The Davidsonian
has dwindled about as low as it can go. In fact, my
apartment ran out of toilet paper the other day, so
we had to use outdated copies of the paper as a
replacement. The Davidsonian — delegated to

spirited, wasn’t it?

This is not to say that The Davidsonian does
not have a chance to redeem itself.

If this week or next week’s papers are entirely
devoted to either myself or the College Bowl
(every single page), and I receive a written apol-
ogy from every person who has ever written: for
The Davidsonian, then I would consider letting
the paper off the hook.

Now, if you know me personally, you’ are

' asking yourself why Britton is being so disgust-

ingly disagreeable.
I’m a nice guy, most people will tell you.

blowing each other’s noses, actually got to watch
the movie.

Yeah, there were a few sad spots, like when
the captain retires to his quarters for the last time
or when the ship sinks, but I, for the most part, was
able to maintain my poker face. After the show I
gave high fives to all the men in the theater who
didn’t cry. We were all very proud of ourselves,

- you see.

Meanwhile, the two girls who brent me to
the show are bawling well into the credits, and I’m
beginning to wonder ifI want to be driven home by
these emotional wrecks. In time, though, they are

“The truth of the matter is, I didn’t especially feel like writing in a
newspaper that tends to make up its own news instead of reporting on

events that actually happen.”

This week, however, has done considerable
damage to my inner peace, and my disposition has
suffered as a result. Here’s what happened:

It all started with my first viewing of “Ti-
tanic,” a movie I hadn’t exactly been dying to see.
Anyway, I literally get dragged to the theater by
these two girls who have already seen the movie
27 times. They started to cry during the previews,
for Christ’s sake.

And so, “Titanic” ended up becoming a three-
hour test of manliness. I’ve got two women on
either side of me with their faces buried in napkins,
and I start to get the feeling that they want me to
cry, too. I was going to cry if I was human, they
said.

Little did they know of my tear duct endur- ~

ance.

able to collect themselves enough so that we are

able to actually leave the theater. We got out of ©

there just before the movie started playing again.

Imagine my surprise, however, when on the
drive back to campus, I learned that they were
really only upset because 1) Leonardo was too

good-looking to die and 2) The old lady shouldn’t -

have thrown the diamond into the ocean because it
was worth a lot of money and would have been a
great complement to all sorts of outfits.
Apparently, I had missed the point of the
movie entirely.
My second reason for being in a bad mood
stems from a recent job interview. In fact, it was

my first job interview, but it was surprisingly a job

for which T'was qualified — the prerequisite in-

_ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1998

‘A nomad

s view

to write the letter “‘z” incursive. So when I walked
into the room for the interview, I was confident
that I would at least get past the first round of cuts.
But here’s a transcript of what actually happened:
Interviewer: It’s nice to meet you, Britton. First,
tell me a little bit about yourself. Why did you
choose to come to Davidson?

Me: Well, to begin with. . .

66999 5

, Interviewer: [Cough]. I’m really sorry, but that’s

really all the time I have. Here’s my card. If you
have any questions about the company, feel free to
give me a call or e-mail me. Good luck with
everything!

Now, ‘that wasn’t exactly how I expected
things to go, and it’s disheartening that the Career
Services Office never prepared me for such a
rigorous and selective process.

I was feeling pretty down about myself, but
then a friend told me to consult the ultimate
vocational source, The Book of Job, which offers
the following advice:

“So Satan went forth from the presence of the
Lord, and afflicted Job with loathsome sores from
the sole of his foot to the crown of his head.” Such
profound guidance offered me little comfort, if
any at all. If the Lord can’t help me get a job, who
can?

And so I have decided that attempting to find
ajob is ultimately hopeless. My roommate’s offer
to join him as a nomad now appears to be the most
attractive offer on'the table. Hell, I could get used
to being a nomad,

So basically, this week’s moral is three-fold:
1) Only read The Davidsonian if you are feeling
skeptical. 2) The real sadness of “Titanic” can be
found in its poignant treatment of material loss. 3)
Don’t get a job. Instead, join Billy and Britton as
they wander the earth in search of exotic fungi and

interim wipage.

Oops, that was kind of mean

While the two of them spent their time

volved knowledge of the alphabet and the ability

eternal happiness.

“Youth, Money, and Politics: Is this All There Is?”

trustin the idealism of young people
active in the political process sorely
abused. For 35 years I have been either
teaching American Government at the
college level, including Davidson Col-

le recent months, I have had my

lege and the Fulbright Institute of Inter-
national Relations; serving in Ameri-
can Government at the national level in
the Senate Majority Whip’s office and
in President Carter’s Administration;
or writing about the American political
_ Process. ; ;
Throughout my checkered career
— which began as a low-level budget
officer in the Executive Office of the
President under President John F.
Kennedy — I have encouraged young
men and women to pursue their ideals
through participation in the electoral
process of the premier constitutional
democracy on this planet.
Some of them have been elected to

the U.S. Congress (both parties); some
of them have been elected to high State
office in several states; and a great many
of them have worked in the campaigns
of others (including several Davidson
students who volunteered in Terry
Sanford’s presidential campaign of
1972).

Therefore, I am deeply offended
when some bright and ambitious stu-
dents offer themselves to U.S. Senate
candidates’ campaigns on the basis of,
“T will sign up with the highest bidder;
tell me later about your experience and
positions on the issues.”

Over several months as a senior
adviser toa N.C. senatorial candidate, I
have been approached by a number of
young, college-educated men and
women of middle-class background who
tell me flat out, “I think D.G. Martin is
the best person and the most qualified
candidate, but I have a good financial
offer from John Edwards’ campaign.
Can you match it?” (Martin’s leading
primary opponent is worth approxi-
mately $40 million and plans to spend a
lot of itin a television ad blitz.) Just like
that.

When the essentially volunteer
character of Martin’s campaign is ex-

plained to them, they walk away with
varying excuses and degrees of remorse.

Let me hasten to add that I know
some fine young men and women who
have signed up to work for John
Edwards. They are drawn to him for
reasons in addition to salary.

But there are quite a few others
who need to take ‘stock of themselves
for the opportunistic way in which they
sell to the highest bidder, and some high
officials on the opposition campaign
should be ashamed of themselves for
the way then go around with an open
check book dangling before them.

Two concrete cases among sev-
eral of which I have firsthand knowl-
edge: 1) The Edwards campaign re-
cently hired a young college graduate to
do issues research. He had favored

Martin until he got an offer he could not.

resist. Then he had the gall to call and
ask, if it turned out that he did not like
the setup at the Edwards campaign,
could he come to work for Martin! This
incident appalled me.

2) An official high in the Edwards
campaign called a nephew of mine,
knowing that he is comfortably em-
ployed, and also knowing that he sup-
ports D.G. Martin in the U.S. Senate

primary. The Edwards official was in
the act of offering him a salaried posi-
tion on the campaign staff when he
interrupted her to rake it clear that his
allegiance was to Mr. Martin. This

_ incident made me angry — and proud.

And then there are the purchased
adults of more advanced years. On
Tuesday night, Jan. 13, at a meeting of
the Wilkes County Democratic party, I
observed the county chairman “tempo-
rarily” step down because — in his own
words — “I belong to John.”

He then went on to praise D.G.
Martin as a fine person and a splendid
campaigner who will make a great Sena-
tor after the November election!

The chairman described the situa-
tion as “the most painful” one he had
ever experienced in his long public life.
In.other words, this top field operative
for Martin’s opponent has been bought
— lock, stock, and barrel.

Whatis a Senate primary all about?
Is it about who can buy the primary
election? Is that all there is, young
pols? (Journalists certainly seem to
think so.) Or is it about who can best
represent the broad interests of the vast
majority of N.C. citizens over against
the incumbent multimillionaire hog

farmer Lauch Faircloth in the general
election? Should not a distinguished
public service record — including the
Green Berets, a Congressional candi-
dacy, and a vice presidency over the
whole UNC system — count for more
than no party or public service to speak
of and a professional life largely de-
voted to enriching one’s self? Shades
of Michael Huffington.

Let the wannabe leaders of tomor-
row consult their conscience. Let the
fourth estate check it out.

All those who plan to vote in the
May primary should take heed. Ask not
if a successful trial lawyer has a place
for you on his campaign staff — due to
alarge fortune combined with “bundled”
PAD money from his branch of the
profession — or if he has just won
another high-profile personal injury
case.

Ask what you can do for your
country when electing a member of the
greatest deliberative body in the world!
The mother’s blood of politics must not
be allowed to poison the young who are
soon-to-be leaders.

This article was written of my own
volition and without the knowledge of
anyone in the Martin campaign.

Alenda Lux

a)

Kev a weekends

oy Nose Lotae

Weil, se wee aad WAS Come oad

i Rid you see

us tool UN CG? pt |

“Nope? * As in, rope, |

T wos... lousy?

Bloke you massed ooth
AY Pond! ong rol of

he

