THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LiviING

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 1998

Novelist Sheri Reynolds to read from
“A Gracious Plenty” in 900 Room

By Kternan:McGorty

College Relations

Novelist Sheri Reynolds, a 1989 Davidson

graduate and honoree of Oprah Winfrey’s Book —

Club, will speak at Davidson College on Thurs-
day, Feb. 19. The free public reading from her
newest novel “A Gracious Plenty” will begin at
8:15 p.m. in the 900 Room of the College Union.

“The Rapture of Canaan,” Reynolds’s sec-
ond novel, caught Oprah’s attention and became
an instant best-seller after the TV host named it as
a selection for her on-air book club. Oprah called
Reynolds’s book “very fulfilling.”

“The Rapture of Canaan” is a coming-of-age
story set in the restrictive but loving world of a
Pentecostal community. Ninah is the young hero-

iné whose life is molded by her grandparents and
the teachings of their “fire and brimstone” reli-
gion. She makes a mistake that brings the wrath of
the community down upon her, butit also provides
the impetus for her to take charge of her future.

Reynolds dedicated her highly acclaimed first
book “Bitterroot Landing” to three Davidson Col-
lege faculty and staff members — English Profes-
sors Gail Gibson and Libby Mills, and student
Services staff member Ruth Pittard.

Reynolds currently teaches a graduate fiction
course and undergraduate literature courses at Old
Dominion University. She received her M.F.A.
from Virginia Commonwealth University and has
also taught at the College of William and Mary.

For more information on Reynolds, contact
the College Union at 892-2140.

it Body

OROS

Brought to you by: Wertzel N. Snertzel

OPE

Aquarius (Jan. 20 - Feb. 18)

Lucky Musical: “Hair.”

Pisces (Feb. 19 - Mar. 20)

Lucky Letter of the Hawaiian Alphabet: E.

Aries (Mar. 21 - Apr. 19)

Lucky Postal Stamp:. young Elvis.
Taurus (Apr. 20 - May 20)

Gemini (May 21 - June 20)

Cancer (June 21 - July 22)

Leo (July 23 - Aug. 22)
You are a diety figure. Don’t get a complex.
Lucky Literary Device: the Appositive.

Virgo (Aug. 23 - Sept. 22)

Lucky Place for Love: Basement Little.

Libra (Sept. 23 - Oct. 22)

Lucky Phrase for Job Advancement:

Scorpio (Oct. 23 - Nov. 21)

Lucky Place for Sleep: your bed.

Sagittarius (Nov. 22 - Dec. 21)

Capricorn (Dec. 22 - Jan. 19)

Lucky Lottery Number: 1426.

Your BTI phone bill will be larger than the national debt. Sucks to be you.

Your respective other has decided to talk to your best friend. You will find them eating at the Commons
together, sharing Student Steak and fries. Grab a knife; do what you will.

You will get an urge to write down your innermost desires and then mail them to your parents.

Like the car you will be very popular. However, also like the car, you will fall apart at various times of the
day due to a lack of oil. Lucky Retail Store: Radio Shack.

Your roommate will finally jump. Don’t follow. Congrats on the 4, 0.
Lucky Relationship-type Person: anyone with some power in their organization.

Only good things can happen to you. Why? Because you are always right. Don’t let anyone tell you that
you're wrong, ‘cause they're wrong. Lucky Suturing Device:

EI Nino will target your 10-page poli-sci paper for its next Spring Shower.

A world of opportunities are available out there, except for you.
“Would you like fries with that?”

The Commons forecasts great amounts of mashed potatoes this week. Build a mountain out of them.

You know that, smell in your closet? We know what it is. You don’t.
Lucky Monetary Denomination: the Susan B. Anthony Dollar.

You will find that perfect someone somewhere sometime. Actually, it’s probably your roommate.

the Surgical Staple.

The gospel of safe sex

By Mitcu SHoreEs
Student Health Advisor

It’s that time again, boys and girls! I hope you all
had a nice weekend, and I hope that your week is
starting off well, too. We have gotten a few questions
at the last minute this week, and I will be the first to
promise you that they will be addressed in next week’s
article.

Okay, so I am grasping desperately deep into my
mind to find something to talk about this week. You
have probably talked about sex so many times in your
life by now that it is becoming very boring to you, but
if there was anything that could keep my interest more,
then I would be flabbergasted. To me you cannot talk
about sex enough, so here it goes. . .

Sex , as you all know, is very beautiful thing, and
we should cherish the act. I personally feel that there is
only one thing that we should consider more important,
and that is protection. The first thing we must say, and
I am:screaming this loud and clear, is that abstinence is
the safest sex there is.

The word abstinence is almost synonymous with
the Ten Commandments here in North Carolina, and it
is very important to abstain from sex if you totally want
to avoid any risk of acquiring a sexually transmitted
disease. However, if you have already taken the plunge
into the ocean of hedonism and you cannot find your
way back to the celibate shore, then I would suggest you
hold tightly to the Safe-Sex Lifeboat.

There are a lot of different options you can take
when considering which paddle to use on your Safe-Sex
Lifeboat, if you feel sure of your partner — which you
never should unless you have both been checked out at
the local free clinic. Now, when I say checked out, I
mean you have been through the STD test from hell.

‘hall programs where the Sex Goddess and her slaves to

You will have wanted everything prodded, poked,
groped, and swabbed to ensure that you are “safe” for
the one you love.

If you have had sex, then I would suggest, to be on
the safe side, that you have this done. If you would like
more information about the testing sites in your area
(this sounds like one of those SAT pamphlets), then you
can call Mrs. Georgia Ringle (x2902) for more details.

Back to the Lifeboat — the most effective method.
to prevent STD transmission, aside from abstinence, is
the use of condoms. There are condoms for her and
condoms for him. There are an array of colors, scents,
and flavors available for that splash of kink deep inside
of all of you. It is also helpful to use the ones that are
prepared with lubrication and spermicide.

For oral sex, you should always use your helpful
little dental dam, and you should all know how to use
those by now. If you are wondering where you can find
condoms, I just found out that there was a shipment
recently. Beg your Hall Counselors and RAs to have

come doa program on your hall. You should also attend
the programs given by the FCREW. Let me commend
you, FCREW, for starting the healthy trend of having
condoms at your events. Now if worse comes to worse,
youcan find the emergency supply in your hall medicine
cabinets.

So here you have it: a reminder to have safe sex
and some helpful information on how to keep sex safe
from the beginning to the end. Tune in next week for an
article I am looking forward ‘to writing: The Libido
Killers!!!!_ If you should have any questions or com-
ments, please write to:

The Student Body
c/o Mitch Shores
PO Box 4180
Davidson NC 28036

a

PHOTOGRAPHY

e COMMERCIAL
e AERIAL

e BROCHURES
e MURALS

e INDUSTRIAL

° ADVERTISING
° CATALOGS

¢ PUBLISHING

@ PRODUCT
e PROMOTIONAL
¢ DISPLAYS
e STUDIO ON- site

WARREN STUDIO

ind 892-7166 |

WEDDING SUPPLIES

WEDDINGS OF
DISTINCTION

ee 9725 OAK ST. CORNELIUS

Dark Room Space fot

Rent

tj reddy Exhibit The art equivalentto e.e. cummings.
All week long. 8:00 a.m.-11:00 p.m. in the College
Union.

Ralph W. Ketner. The former chairman of Food
Lion, hear him roar. 7:00 - 8:15 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

Jumpin’ Java/Poetry. Free newtons with prose.
7:30 p.m. at the Outpost.

Roger Brown & Friends Exhibit. More art, by
Roger and his friends. All week long. 10:00 a.m. -
6:00 p.m. in the VAC.

21-Year-Old-Night. Drink. Because youcan. 10:00
p.m.-12:30 a.m. in the 900. Room.

CROP Lunch. Reap the bountiful

harvest, sow some friends. 11:30
a.m. - 1:30 p.m in the 900 Room.

“How and When We Die.” Morbid,
huh? 7:00-8:15 p.m. in Chambers

Gallery.

Cheap Donuts. The perfect pence

frugal people. 8:00 a.m-5:00 p.m. in the
Union Lobby.

Solidarity Week. | think we're alone
now. All week long. 8:00 a.m. - 11:00
p.m. in the Union Pit.

Beaver College Study Abroad. Uh,
you said beaver, heh heh. 1:15 - 2:15
p.m. in the Union Conference Room,

all they told us. 10:00 a.m. - 12:00
p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

Room in the Inn. Away in a man-
ger. Saturday night in Johnston
Gym.

Pets, E
Black History Month Event. That's

Community Dinner/Barbecue.
Eat warm shredded swine. 12:30
p.m. at the Ada Jenkins Center.
Juggling. The only class where
you can throw things atthe teacher.
3:00 - 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Caffeine. 7:30 p.m.-
12:30 a.m. at the Outpost.

- TuEsDAY
_ WEDNESDAY

an

~ SUNDAY
Monpbay

Visiting High School Sucre: Pre-frosh here for
talks. Thtough Friday. 11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. in the
Home Room.

Girl Scout Cookie Sale. You know you want them.
3:30 - 5:00 p.m. on the Union Patio; if rain, Union

Lobby.

Meditation Class. Find your inner self. 5:30 - 6:30
p.m. in the Home Room.

Keepin’ It Real. Check it out. 7:30 - 8:30 p.m. in the
Home Room.

Is Homosexuality Genetic? | don’t know. Find out.
7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

“Chasing Amy.” Run, Amy, run. 9:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

DC Symphony Concert. Play,

symphony, play. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in
the DCPC Sanctuary.

Sheri Reynolds. A kick-ass book
reading. 8:15 - 9:45 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Friday Afternoon Club. Alcohol aware-
ness week is over; let's drink to that!
4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Arts Ensemble Talent Show. Groups
of artists display their talents. 7:30-9:30
p.m. in Chambers Gallery.

“Chasing Amy.” Haven't you caught
her yet? .9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Classical Indian Music Concert.
Get down with your bad Hindu/Bud-
dhistself. 4: 00-7:00 p.m. inthe 900
Room.

Outpost Talent Show. Break out
the Villege People costumes. 9:00
- 11:00 p.m. in the Outpost.

University of Edinburgh Study Abroad. Chew
the hagus, aye. 12:00 - 1:30 p.m. in the Union
Lobby.

University of Edinburgh Info Meeting. Shut
your cakehole and listen! 3:00 - 4:00 p.m. in the
Morrison Room.

Carl Ernst. Call Laki Sabaratnam for informa-
tion. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m, in the 900 Room.

“Peer Gynt.” The National Theatre of the Deaf
perform. 8:15 - 10:15 p.m. in Love Auditorium.
Davidsonian Meeting. It's on the schedule, but

wewon'tbe there. 9: 00- 10:00 p.m. in the Wilson
Room.

