PERRETES?

oh Rag Sa

20816 N. Main St.,
Cornelius, NC 28031
(3/4 mile from Davidson College)

Phone 895-1774

Fax 895-1647

‘CALL AHEAD FOR FASTER SERVICE

BriAN CAMPBELL
Staff Writer

The colors of fall have transformed our cam-
pus the past few weeks, but no trees are quite as
spectacular as the maples. It seems as if only days
ago, all 250 of our campus’s maples exploded their
yellows, reds, and oranges at once. Our arboretum
has six species of maple, including the smallish
Amur Maple (Acer ginnala), the textured Paperbark
Maple (Acer griseum), the new Dana-Watson
courtyard Japanese Maple (Acer palmatum), and
the large Norway Maple (Acer platanoides).This
week, we feature the two most common and most
colorful maples on campus, the Red Maple (Acer

rubrum) and the Sugar Maple (Acer saccharum).

But first, why is it that leaves change color in
the first.place? Leaves are the food factories of
trees, and contain lots of green-colored chlorophylls
that capture sunlight. This energy helps turn water
and carbon dioxide into sugars that nourish the
tree. As the days get shorter, the tree knows that
the drier and less sunny weather of winter is
approaching, and it must prepare for this unpro-
ductive season. The sap flow slows and chloro-
phyll in the leaves is used up and not replenished.
The green color fades and makes way for colorful
pigments. Reds and purples are the result of pig-
ments called anthocyanins, which also color fruits
like apples, cherries, cranberries, and strawber-
ries. Yellow leaves are caused by carotenoids,
pigments that are common to carrots, corn, butter-
cups, canaries, eggyolks and bananas. Many of

these pigments are in the leaves year round, almost
entirely hidden by the green of chlorophyll. Soon
after changing color, trees shed their leaves to —
conserve water, which they exhale through tiny
holes on the underside of the leaves. ;
The Red Maple has the greatest north-south
distribution of any species along the East Coast,
with huge numbers in a wide variety of habitats.
Pioneers made ink and cinnamon-brown and black
dyes from a bark extract. These trees are large and
common around campus, with leaves turning red

or sometimes yellow. The Sugar Maple is a

common tree, popular for its color and its commer-
cial uses. The wood is used in furniture, flooring,
boxes, crates, and veneer. Some trees develop
special grain patterns such as the birdseye, curly,
and fiddleback and are in great demand. More
than wood, however, this tree is known for its sap,
which is the source of maple syrup. Individual
trees produce anywhere from 5-60 gallons of sap
per year. The sap is harvested in February or
March, and it takes about 40 gallons to make one
gallon of syrup. Sugar Maples glow with brilliant
yellow and orange color along streets and paths on
campus.

Where is your favorite maple on campus?
Take a walk before the leaves all fall. Don’t miss
the trees along Main Street and Concord Road, ©
near the Baker parking lot, and ofcoursebesidethe .
Union. Watch change happen before your eyes.
Stand and look through the colorful canopies. As
they glisten bright reds, yellows, and oranges, we
too are changed a little. Soak up the joy of autumn.

Scorpio (October 23 - November 21) .
Go to the Soda Shop. Order a large orangeade and a side of cottage fries. Sure, it’ll cost
you $8.49, but don’t ask questions — just do it now! Lucky cult leader: Sun Yung Moon

Sagittarius (November 22 - December 21)
Throw plastic trash receptacles at large skunks. They like it, really. Lucky airline to fly:
AirTran (“The Airline Formerly Known as ValuJet”)

Capricorn (December 22 - January 19)

Taurus (April 20 - May 20)

A disgruntled Spice Girl will accost you at the post office. Back away slowly and tell her that
you think they’re just fine without Geri. Be sure to use small words that she’ll be sure to
understand. Lucky pet you’re allowed to have on-campus: Japanese Fighter Fish.

Gemini (May 21 - June 20)

Cancer (June 21 - July 22)

Every movie you see reminds you of postwar Deutschland. Forget the Stalinist handshake and
move on. Lucky place to receive phone calls: anywhere but your own room.

Your favorite Tree of the Week will die. Hear that noise? That’s Brian Campbell’s heart
shattering. Hold a white-tie memorial service and sprinkle green tea leaves everywhere you
go for the next 4.27 months. Lucky publication: Teen Beat (close second: Sassy)

Your poli sci professor will have class at the new Carolina Beverage Mart bar. Buy afew rounds
of gin ‘n’ tonics and let the discussion go where it will. Lucky room in Chambers: 226. But
don’t get too attached.

Aquarius (January 20 - February 18)

A convenience store cashier will accuse you of counterfeiting money when you hand him
one of thenew $20bills. Leave quickly and avoid facing the security cameras. They’ Il never
know it was you, even though you’ ll look guilty as sin. Lucky dictator: Benito Mussolini.

Leo (July 23 - August 22)

You will be forced to listen to six consecutive hours of female country artists. Buy earplugs and
try to find an open window, or you’ ll never make it. Lucky bottled beverage: those Whipper-
Snapple things.

Pisces (February 19 - March 20)
You will meet the mate of your dreams in the.Taj Ma-Teeter checkout line. Gain his/her
interest by requesting paper, not plastic. Lucky game of Free Cell: number 3.

Virgo (August 23 - September 22)

An easily excited Dachsund will steal your cheeseburger from the Cafe’s patio. When you
remind him that the cheeseburger resembles a cross-section of himself, the Dachsund will drop
the cheeseburger and run quickly in the direction of Practice Room C. Rescue the remains of the
toasted sesame seed bun and proceed as usual. Lucky Outpost ingredient: cheese.

oe

Aries (March 21 - April 19)

Your heating system will become possessed and spew 100-degree heat into your room, even
on 70-degree afternoons. Turning it off will only anger the spirits within. Instead, open your
window and sleep naked, or “nekkid,” for the wild and daring. — but don’t forget to lock
your door and pull down the blinds Lucky adjective/adverb: very.

Libra (September 23 - October 22)

Your Cat Card will cease to function in the front door of} your residence hall. Run screaming for
the door every time someone opens it before you, or walk all the way around to the back and face
an extra flight of stairs. Or you could just shell out for anew card. Lucky College department:
Auxiliary services.

Coffeehouse. Magically turns yourchangeintodough: Yearbook Photographs. “Lookstraight Yearbook Photographs. “Smile big, Super- ;
wuts; 8:18 - 11:15 am. in the 900 Room. : fags 4: 4 Into the Streets Event. 8:00 a.m. - 6:00 Meeting. 3:00 - 4:30 p.m.
Art Exhibits. Featuring works by Micaela Amato and up here at me, Rambo.” 8:00.a.m-6:00 an.” 8:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. in the Morrison space rigs Oo eed al

p.m. on Chambers Lawn. in the 900 Room.

Peter Gourfain. 10:00 a.m. -6:00 p.m. daily atthe VAC.
12:30 - 3:30 p.m. in

the Chambers Gallery.

Russia In Crisis. AGAIN?7!? What now? 5:00 - 6:00

p.m. in the Home Room.
Java. Enough free to wake the dead.

8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the Outpost.

The Second City. Feeder comedy troupe for Saturday

Night Live performs at 9:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall,

“Mecklenburg County's Palace of Improv Comedy.”
Tioatne hear Calshghe wth oapeet. Doceine
state law says you can hold yer liquor, and you'd like

someone to heckle while you try. 1800p. - 12:30
a.m. in the 900 Room.

Meditation. Who will prove the serenest?
4:30 - 5:45 p.m. in the Union Conference
| Room.

Pep Band rehearsal. Flugelhoms of fury!

0 AE Speaks. 7:00 -
| 8:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

ris enced: ya aga 9:00 p.m. in the
Union Conference Room

“Wings of Desire.” Film. 9:30 p.m. in the
900 Room.

pd oi in the Band Room (Cunningham '

p.m. in the Morrison Room.

RA/Hall Counselor Information Ses-
sion. Become arole model, like Chunky.
5:00 - 6:00 p.m. in the Home Room.
Lynn Hasher, Ph.D. Speaker speaks.
7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Wilson Room.

Jerry Douglas Band. Bluegrass con-
cert featuring Maura O'Connell. Costs
money, though. 8:00 pn m, at Love Audi-

torium. ante

Dahn Fitness. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the

Room.

Coffeehouse. Featuring special guest the Evil
Dr. Quadrapus, who has four limbs and will use
them to kill you if you don’t pay for your dough-
nuts. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Friday afternoon? Why not? 4:30 - 6:30 p.m.
in the 900 Room.

“Wings of Desire.” 9:30 p.m. in a ee
Room:

Friday Afternoon Club (FAC). Beer on a

FLAG Fashion Show. Let the skinfest
begin! 8:00 p.m. in the Chambers Gal-
lery. : :
DJ Maxwell. Spins his turntables for
you from 10:30 p.m. - 1:00 a.m. in the
900 Room.

Chess Club. Bloody allegories of feudalism.
7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Union Conference
Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Wear your coffee-drinkin’
clothes, shoes in which you can get wet, and
a big smile. 7:30 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. at the

Outpost.
Amnesty International. All students wel-
come! 8:00- -9:00p. m. inthe Morrison Room.

Juggling. With Davidson's own Bill Giduz.
7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Ciaron Carson, Poet reads poetry. 7:00 -
9:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Jumpin’ Java, sans poetry reading. BE
the party. 8:00

