AcbcE OND A MeL x Ai J ORTA LIBERTAS

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
Unper New MANAGEMENT

Cats beat Furman.
After VMI loss, Cats rebound.

SPORTS

= Vagt rejects
/ sororities

By Liz NEIHEISEL
News Editor

Bring on the pork.
Wes reviews Lancaster’s Bar-B-Que.

A&L 10

Vamanos Van under fire.
Abandoned students speak out.

OPINIONS 7

Martin Luther King, Jr.

College holds a celebration of his life.

NEws 4

In a press release issued Monday, Jan. 12, President

Robert Vagt announced that nationally-affiliated sororities
would not be invited to campus in the near future. “It is my
judgment,” he said, “that the presence of sororities at David-
son could put at risk one of this institution’s great strengths
—thatis, the unsurpassed quality, the breadth and depth, of the
female applicants for admission.”
After months of intense debate and controversy, Vagt’s
decision came as no surprise. As indicated in the Nov. 11
issue of The Davidsonian, the vast majority of women, and
the student body in general, opposed the introduction of
sororities on the basis that they may have a negative impact
on the current eating house system.

Though 70 percent of the women polled opposed the
invitation to sororities on this basis, Vagt’s decision focused
on another aspect: the likelihood that sororities’ presence
“would diminish our attractiveness to women and female
applicants to the college.”

“The fact is we’re very lucky, very fortunate, to have the
women on this campus that we haye,” said Vagt. “We have
something that we know that we like, that really makes us
distinctive, and we don’t want to run the risk of losing that.”
The focus of dissension on campus, and the greatest battle for
Vagt, was a question of equity. In the press release, Vagt
asserts his faith in the “fundamental belief (of the) right of any
group to organize on this campus” unless “that group or its
activities may violate the noble aims or the best interests of
this institution and its constituent assembly.”
“Everybody should have a right to organize,” he said.
Sororities, in his opinion, represented such a threat. “To me
the clear and present danger was not what those organizations
in their activities would do. Their presence on this campus,
we were told by three fairly reputable sources, would dimin-
ish our attractiveness to women and female applicants to the
college.” .

“It wasn’t the sororities by virtue of its activities here
would do something, it was just their presence. The best
interests of the College,” said Vagt, “was to keep the women
such as we have been lucky to:come through here already.”
“Right now, based on what I know...We have on campus

Sallie McMurray
@ Warner Hall members “initiated” incoming freshmen into their eating house during
this past Friday’s self-selection festivities. ;

117 Men, 180 Women take part in self-selection

By SARAH OGDEN

SeeSororites on page 3

Patterson Court Advisor and Residence. cess went more smoothly this year.” fun. It was crazy. It was one of the — Epsilon; and 25 chose Sigma Phi Epsi-

Co-Editor in Chief

Self-Selection commenced once
again early Friday morning, as women’s
eating house cheers reverberated
throughout freshmen-inhabited dorms.

First-year students and sopho-
mores who chose to join an eating house
or fraternity returned the forms listing
their house preferences last Wednes-
day.

Following the traditional wake-up
call, house functions were held Friday
night to celebrate the arrival of and
welcome incoming members, “high-
lighted,” according to one Rusk mem-
ber, by the streaking of nude fraternity
pledges through each eating house.

“Overall, things went well,” said

Life Coordinator Jim Barber.

“T think having a Risk Manager at
each house helped things,” said Barber,
“as did having no beer slides.” This is
the first year Risk Managers (who “red-
shirted” at their own houses) have been
present at each house during Self-Se-
lection.

Barber, who experienced Self-Se-
lection this year for the first time, added
that there are still things that can be
done to make the night even safer.

“I’m really excited about the new
girls,” said Rusk president Emily Eagan.
“Self-selection was awesome, unbeliev-
able.”

“T think it went absolutely beauti-
fully,” agreed Taylor Roy, a former
Rusk president. “I think the entire pro-

Connor president Ellen Runnels
relates a similar experience. “I think it
went great,” she said. “We had a blast.

“(The freshmen) are awesome,”
Runnels continued. “They absolutely
rock,”

Ann Strauser, president of Warner
Hall, said that the night went “pretty
well. The sisterhood part was so much
fun, and when it opened up, it was crazy
- but in a good way.”

Strauser was also impressed with
Warner’s incoming class of freshmen.
“They ’re so great,” she said. “They’re
so enthusiastic, and they’re ready to be
involved.” ;

“Tloved (self-selection),” said Kate
Helm, a first-year student who self-
selected into Rusk. “It was so much

funnest nights of my life.”

“It was fun,” agreed freshman
Aguil Deng, who joined Warner. “I
went out with the girls on my hall...It
was nice to bond.”

None of the eating houses reported
major incidents during Self-Selection.

According to Barber, 117 menand
180 women self-selected into a respec-
tive fraternity or eating house this year,
including four sophomore men and one
sophomore woman.

The freshman class is comprised
of 241 men and 229 women overall.

Of those who pledged fraternities,
1S chose Kappa Alpha; 12 chose Kappa
Sigma; 12 chose Pi Kappa Alpha; 14
chose Phi Delta Theta; 10 chose Phi
Gamma Delta; 15 chose Sigma Alpha

“This is a decision which will not be pleasing to all.”

PRESIDENT BOBBY VAGT, IN EXPLAINING HIS DECISION ON SORORITIES

lon.

Of those who joined eating houses,
43 chose Connor; 66 chose Rusk; and
66 chose Warner Hall.

The Black Student Coalition
gained 26 new members, of which one
is also a member of a fraternity and six
are members of eating houses.

Police reports and information re-
garding any accidents Friday night were
unavailable.

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

