nona
" By Kells Hetheringtion
Staff Writer

The Development Of-
fice in connection with the
Student Government Asso-
ciation just concluded the

_ two-week Phonathon on
Noy. 5. During the
Phonathon, student volun-
teers placed calls. in the
evening from the basement
of the Student Health Center
to Davidson alumni who
have either never given or
not made. a contribution
within the last three to four
years. Student callers asked
alumni to help realize
Davidson’s goal of a50 per-
cent participation rate in this
year’s annual fund by those
whoare not annual contribu-
tors.

The Phonathon resulted
in pledges totaling $30,000.
Nonetheless, the Davidson

. alumni failed to meet the
challenge of 50 percent par-
ticipation by a mere three
percentage points. The 1997
Phonathon yielded more
than twice that of this year’s
Phonathon, $56,000 more to

be precise. Chris Knox ’96

and Rein Oehl ’96, both of
the Davidson Development

Office, pointed to three fac-

tors as possible explanations

for the decline in the 1998

Phonathon’s yield in com-

parison to that of 1997. First,
although each residential hall
was asked to supply two vol-
unteers for a period of three
hours on one evening, only

25 volunteers ever material-

ized. Student participation

10n is a success

in terms of percent measured
only 0.1 percent of the
Davidson student body. (All
were welcome to volunteer at
the Phonathon.)

Lack of student partici-
pation, both Knox and Oehl
believe, may be attributed to
three factors. One factor is
the difficulty in finding the
Student Health Facility base-
ment, where the recent
Phonathon took place. The
Student Health Facility build-
ing is the last building on the
campus side of Main Street
heading toward Mooresville.
The 1997 Phonathon was held.
in Chambers Gallery, which
is a more centralized loca-
tion. Second, a general lack
of publicity on campus for
the event and the need for
volunteers diminished the
volunteer turnout. Third,
fewer phones were made
available for the 1998
Phonathon than were to last
year’s Phonathon, which left
some Phonathon volunteers
sitting at a table doing home-
work or reading magazines
as they waited for a phone to
become available.

Although the 1998
Phonathon yielded less in
pledges than the 1997
Phonathon, the bill for this
year’s Phonathon will be
$3,000 less because _addi-
tional phones were not in-
stalled for the event. The
total cost for putting on the
1997 Phonathon, which lasted
one week, came to $8,000.

. Thus, the bill for the 1998

Phonathon, which ran for two
weeks, will be an estimated

$10,000 plus‘ the cost in-
curred by the prizes awarded
to callers. The caller who
received the largest pledge,
$1,500, was awarded an air-
line ticket. Other gifts in-
cluded free meals at area res-
taurants.

The average rate of
alumni fulfilling the pledges
that they make is 75 percent,
so after paying for the phone
bill, the prizes, and taking
into account that 25 percent
will default on their pledge,
Davidson’s net gain will be
$15,000. The Development
Office feels such efforts are
productive because those
who contribute once are more
likely to become regular giv-
ers, and the 1998 Phonathon
was no deviation from this
pattern. The smallest gift in
the Phonathon totaled $10
and although the average gift
was slightly better than $25,
many alumni declined tocon-
tribute.

Among the most com-
monly given explanations by
those who would not con-
tribute to the annual fund
were as follows: “I’m broke
and need the money more
than Davidson”; “I’m a stu-
dent”; “I prefer not to be so-
licited by phone”; or “I feel
that Davidson has become
too liberal a college.”

The money raised dur-
ing the recent Phonathon will
be distributed between the
Living Endowment, which
as of June 30, 1998 was in
excess of $250 million, the
Davidson Athletic Founda-
tion, and WDAV Radio.

Air Force ROTC at
Davidson has presence

By Carrié ARTHUR

News Editor

Although the Army ROTC has more cadets on campus, the Air Force ROTC is also a
presence. This year, Davidson has two Air Force ROTC cadets: Michael Albert ‘99 and Justice

Smith ‘00.

Davidson’s Air Force ROTC cadets travel to UNC-Charlotte because as Smith explained,

za

By AMANDA Britt
Independent Senator

Nov. 3 was a landmark day not only in national
politics, but also at Davidson. As political candidates’
polls were being tallied, Davidson’s SGA discussed
and debated many crucial and landmark issues.

. Since the campus-wide Race Forum on Wednes-
day, Oct. 28, the SGA has been working hard to
uphold the promises SGA President Ann Harriot
Fisher made to improve the racial atmosphere at
Davidson. At the SGA’s Nov. 3 meeting, members
passed a resolution to encourage the Faculty Exécu-
tive Committee to officially observe Martin Luther
King, Jr. national holiday by suspending classes and
allowing students the opportunity to participate in
many educational events held both on- and off-cam-
pus.

Independent Senator Mike Brady ’01, Allen Lee
’01, Sophomore Senator Jehan Shamsid-Deen, and
Fisher ’99 submitted a resolution, which is endorsed
by Dr. Susan Roberts of the Political Science Depart-
ment, challenging the institution to pursue active
programming “in the spirit of Dr. King and the
elimination of discrimination in all its forms.”

It is important to mark that this proposal is

“supported by a petition that 478 students and faculty

signed in support of these propositions. A copy of the
resolution and petition will be sent to every faculty
member. In addition, Fisher spoke at a recent faculty
meeting to encourage faculty to listen to their stu-
dents. In response to some students’ concern for lack
of adequate diversity at Davidson, President Bobby
Vagt has already committed to raise the admission
number of nonwhite students from 12.5 percent to 16
percent in within the next four years.

Fisher has also submitted a proposal to create a
working group, composed of members of the Senate
body, the Honor Council, and the student body, that
would work to examine the necessity and plausibility
of implementing an anti-discrimination clause in the
College’s Statement of Purpose. The Statement of
Purpose reads that “the primary purpose of Davidson

SGA tries to make
good on promises

College is to assist students in developing humane
instincts.” Members will vote on the submission at
the Nov. 10 meeting.

On Sunday, Nov. 15 at 8 p.m., COMA (Coun-
cilon Minority Affairs) will open the 900 Room for
round table discussions about improving race rela-
tions at Davidson. The event will be moderated by '
a professor, yet to be determined. COMA empha-
sizes this session will focus solely on finding solu-
tions for a more agreeable diversity at Davidson.
Anyone is encouraged to attend. Ineffect, SGA will
continue to, promote and support such minority
changes and organizations.

Tommy Ross ’99 announced key events
throughout Into the Streets, a week-long service
drive aimed at involving more students and commu-
nity members to become active volunteers. Ross
noted that the organization’s goal is to provide

. Opportunities for volunteers in hopes that “one

positive experience that will begin a lifelong com-
mitment to community service.”

In order to host the week’s most celebrated
speaker, Washington Post columnist Cullen
McCarthy, Ross requested and received $500 from
the ATC funds.

Ann Culp ’00 spoke on behalf of the Gender
Resource Center. for SGA to grant the Center’s
committee arenewable charter. The SGA voted and
passed the motion for the charter, already passed by
the SCC.

While planning next semester’s schedule, you
might be interested in these five newly approved
courses offered in the spring. Chemistry 110:
Introduction to Chemistry; Latin 336: Imperial
Latin Poetry; Music 229: American Culture of the
1950’s; Psychology 302: Research of Behavioral
Pharmacology; and Sociology 302: The Life Course.

One final note: Chambers closes at 1 a.m. as
of yesterday. The card reader is now functional on
the Union’s handicapped ramp for 24-hour access.

The SGA meets every Tuesday at 9:00 p.m. in
the Union Conference Room.

“It’s the nearest college that offers Air Force ROTC. We’ re ina consortium system with UNCC,
CPCC, Queens, Johnson C. Smith, and others. We all have this agreement whereby members
of one college have the option of taking classes at the others.” Between the combined schools,
approximately 50 to 60 cadets form the corps, which has a “fairly even” age range. According
to Smith, Johnson C. Smith has “‘a good representation” with 15 cadets. The oldest cadet in the
UNCC-based corps is in her late 20s or early 30s. Smith explained that many people enlist in
the Air Force for a few years and then go to college to become an officer.

At UNCC, the cadets participate in activities such as Safe Walk, a program where cadets
on duty escort people across campus. Every two weeks, the ROTC also has a general corps
activity, which is often the recovering of the flag at 4:50 p.m. Once a semester, the change of
command ceremony occurs with acomplete parade. The change involves all ranks of the cadets,
but the ceremony marks the change of the top cadet, the wing commander, who is usually a
senior. The cadets’ job performance determines their ranks. ‘ :

Cadets also take classes at UNCC. Freshmen and sophomores take two classes once a
week. Each class is an hour and a half long. ‘Smith said that the underclassmen do the “backbone
work” in the squadrons. For juniors and seniors, Smith said, “the time increases substantially.”
They not only take classes but also hold assigned positions. Their time commitment is at least
six or seven hours per week, if not more. :

As for their military training, Smith explained that the cadets usually take studies because
“if something actually looks like combat training, we have to get special permission” and they
normally do not file the paper work. The cadets perform drills weekly on Thursdays and follow
their own personal training programs. They do take a fitness test in which the cadets complete
as many pull-ups, sit-ups, and pushups as they can in a 15 minute period, do as long of a long College graduates who decide to continue their education will enter into Air Force two ranks higher than their
jump as possible, and run 600 yards as quickly as possible. They also have a timed 1.5 mile run. counterparts as Captains, Each year, these cadets in graduate or professional school must spend 45 days training.

~ During the summer between the sophomore and junior years, cadets must go through field Smith said that most cadets complete their required training during the summer.
’ training for either four or six weeks depending upon individual cadets’ experiences in the Smith estimated that about half of the UNCC-based cadets have
program for either two years or one year, “Field training is basically an officers’ boot camp,” scholarships, but the majority of scholarships are just for college. Scholarships entail an one-to-one commitment after
Smith explained. “Field training is an intensive experience physically and mentally. The graduation. For every. year spent in college on the scholarship, the cadet must work in the Air Force. Of course, the
purpose of field training is to prepare cadets to become officers and accept leadership positions.” cadets still receive the regular salary during their payback period. For those cadets without a scholarship, they serve

Once cadets graduate from college, they can either immediately join the Air Force or go four years after graduation. Smith stressed that scholarships are available to students, even before the beginning of
to graduate or professional school, possibly with an Air Force scholarship. Smith estimated, the junior year. He wants to increase awareness of the Air Force ROTC for Davidson students because they do a lot
“Most people go straight into the Air Force.” When a cadet goes directly into the Air Force, he _ of different programs and offer a lot of opportunities. Interests can range vastly.
or she enters as a Second Lieutenant and receives an assigned job. Although the Air Force Smith sees the Air Force ROTC as having many benefits. For some people, the benefits are purely monetary.
chooses the cadet’s job, he or she does have two or three career choices, and the administration For others, the Air Force provides a sort of discipline; for others, a guaranteed job right out of college, Smith said,
does consider his or her. major. Smith explained that most college graduates first work in a the Air Force teaches discipline and leadership, a very key focus for us. ;
maintenance squadron, which is a proving ground. Smith said, from there, you can really go The minimum GPA for freshmen and sophomores to stay in the program is :
anywhere in the Air Force. ee : 2.0. Juniors and seniors must maintain a 2.65. :

