“The World’s
Foremost College Weekly”

ESTABLISHED 1914

“Yo quiero Taco Bell.”
> Limon explains that Chihuahua.

NEws 2

D Me Aix ar a...

Sarah, Dave, and Erich retire.
We'll go jump now.

OPINIONS 4, 6

A&L7

No grinches here.
Holiday Gift Market a success.

ORTA LLIB E

Roundball, here we come!
Women’s b-ball takes two.

SPORTS 12

Career services center buys subscription to database

By Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

Since Dec. 1, the Career Services Office has
subscribed to Career Search, a national database of
over 900,000 potential employers. While Career
Search does not list job or internship openings,
Associate Director of Career Services Tony
Butchello said that it “helps shorten the amount of
time to find potential employers.” Career Search
tells students “who’s doing what I want to do.”

Claiming that “nothing in the market place
that I’ve seen can do anything remotely close to
this,” Butchello explained that students can simply
enter industries, locations, and keywords to find a
list of employers in the field and geographic area
they want.

Students can make their searches as general as
companies in a broad industrial category within the
United States, or they can limit their searches to a
subcategory industry with companies of a specific
size and income found in a certain zip code or
section of a city.

From this list of potential employers, students
can obtain the address, phone number, contact
names, year started, size, specialty, earnings, and
website address of individual organizations. Ca-
reer Search also provides maps to find organiza-

tions. Butchello said, “In the past to do that, you
would have used a lot of diverse sources,” such as
the printed job banks, Chamber of Commerce
lists, local college and university webpages, and
Yahoo. Claiming that Career Search takes “‘sec-
onds and minutes as opposed to hours,” Butchello
said that even after the past searches, students
would have not had such an extensive list as what
Career Search provides because “it’s impossible
for the average student to know all of the opportu-
nities that are out there.”

The organizations listed on Career Search
are what Butchello called “niche kind of compa-
nies.” Career Search obtains their names from
nationally recognized data publishers, and the list
is continually updated.

Although Career Search provides the name,
size, and earnings or assets of a company, it does
notreveal how the company or organization stands
within its industry. Butchello explained that stu-
dents can make general assumptions based upon
the profiles by whether a company is small or
large and how profitable it is. He also affirmed

’ that all organizations listed are reputable employ-

ers.

Because the subscription to Career Search
consumed a significant portion of Career Ser-
vices’ library. budget, only one seat is currently

your calendars!

Committee approves. MLK, Jr. Halide,

The Faculty Executive Coane asta the cababia ead celebration of Martin
Luther King Day on Jan. 18, 1999. Classes are canceled for that day. The Executive
Committee trade these calendar atinsiinense ‘to accommodate the canceled class day:

1, pestis wockict ian, 18-22, there will be wo Monday classes. Sta diga odin week |

will be renained: Monday classes will meet Tuesday; Tuesday
e y classes will meet Thursday; and Thursday classes will meet

classes will meet

available to Davidson students: When one person
from Davidson is using the service, no one else
from Davidson can access it. For this reason,
Career Services hopes to impose some limitations
upon its usage.

To confine the use to current Davidson stu-
dents only, the password will be changed fre-
quently and will be available only through the
Career Services Office and its listserv. Butchello
requested for students not to share the password
with non-Davidson students because then those
people would be preventing the use of Davidson
students. The office also asks that students make
appointments with its staff to use the service dur-
ing the workday, from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.
Monday through Friday.

After business hours, students can access the
service from any terminal, but the officé would
like the time online to be limited to 30 minutes.
Butchello said that he didn’t expect anyone to need
more than 30 minutes on Career Search, and he
expressed excitement that the service “extends our
services in the time when students need them,”
often when the office is closed.

Butchello hopes to expand Davidson’s ac-
cess, and he said that Career Services Director
Anne Shields is currently negotiating with Career
Search. He also wants to find a way to make the

service available to alumni. Although Butchello
is anticipating “‘a huge demand,” he said that the
office needs “a few months to determine de-
mands.” If the campus reacts positively to the
service, Butchello thinks that expansion is pos-
sible. He even believed that the service could
possibly save money: “The money we’re invest-
ing in Career Search may and probably will obso-
lete some of our print sources.”

More importantly for Butchello, Career
Search can meet students’ needs: “Ultimately, the
demand for it comes from the recognition that
whenever we can get good, reputable, timely
information that students need out to them, we’re
going to doit. I think that this is an excellent way
to do that.”

In order to interest students, Butchello and
Shields are contacting department chairs to ar-
range meetings with students. Butchello plans to
meet with economics, political science, and his-
tory majors this week, and he has already meet
with the Biology Society.

Davidson’s current subscription lasts until
the end of June. As Butchello said, students’
interest will determine what happens after it ex-
pires. The Career Services already had a 30-day
trial period in October, during which the focus
group of students reacted well to the service.

Project Life bone marrow
donors help save lives

By. Carrie ARTHUR
News Editor

On Nov. 17 and 18, Project Life held its ninth
annual bone marrow drive. Of the 215 people who
came, 205 were successfully typed. Their blood
samples were then tissue tested and added to the
National Registry of Bone Marrow donors.

The participation this year was lower than in
previous years. Ginger Bond °99, Project Life
coordinator, estimated. that usually 400 people
volunteer to be tested. | This number includes
approximately 80 percent of the freshmen class.
Bond attributed the low turnout this year to “a
breakdown on freshmen halls.” She said, “We
would have hall information sessions, but only
five or six people would be there.” In order to
remedy this problem, Bond is working with Health
Educator Georgia Ringle to include information
about Project Life in PE 101. Bond explained,
“That’s going to be a good way to make sure
information gets out to all freshmen.” According
to Bond, Project Life will also “step up publicity
and education next year.”

In order to catch the current freshmen who
were not tested and would potentially volunteer,
Project Life will also target the sophomore class
next year. Bond said that programs on sophomore

halls are possible.

Even though Project Life had faced financial
problems, Bond believes that the committee would
not have any difficulty paying for this year’s drive
due to the low turnout. Project Life needed money
earlier this semester after the National Red Cross
was unable to match the committee’s funds as it
had done in the past. The increase in price for
typing, from $65 to $75 per person, had also
created difficulties. Luckily, Bond said, the
organization’s fundraising was successful. As
usual, the letter writing campaign raised the most.
money, and the t-shirt sales have been “really
successful.” Ben-and Jerry’s-also helped Project
Life with its donation of a $1 for each item
purchased on one day. Bond said that although the
day did not raise “a whole lot, every little bit
counts.” Project Life has also earned approxi-
mately $1500 from its campus wide fund-raiser of
exam baskets. “Very generous” donations from
churches added to the organization’s funds.

Bond’s relief about Project Life’s financial
situation this year does not mean that the organi-
zation does not need money. She anticipated
potential problems in the future. Project Life is

See BONE MARROW page 3.

LETTERS . wstitess

PORN CS shach cessansvassecé cvcvespsoeseans 12

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

