14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998

Women’s Swim Team falls by one point

By Ailson KALeTT
Sports Editor

In one of the most exciting and
closely contested swim meets in recent
memory the Lady Wildcats swimming
and diving team fell one point short of
victory against the University of Rich-

* mond last Saturday. In a meet charac-
terized by highly competitive races and
numerous lead changes the ‘Cats ulti-
mately lost 122 to 121.

Several key individual perfor-
mances by the ‘Cats kept the meet highly
competitive throughout. Freshman
Leisa Rossello set a new school record

in the 1000
women: yard
Wildcats 121 points freestyle
Richmond 122 with a time

of 10:37.38.
men: Rossello’s
Wildcats 140 race was
Richmond 94 extremely

close as she
swam neck-and-neck with the Rich-
mond swimmer for the entire race.
Rossello was encouraged by her cheer-
ing teammates as she touched the wall
just hundredths of a second ahead of her
opponent. “It’s really exciting to be on
ateam where everyone cares and every-
body pays attention,” said Rossello. “It
was great to be swimming and see red
and black on the side of the pool.” Head
Coach Rich DeSelm was thrilled with
Rossello’s performance. “That was great
for her. She inspired the team that we
could race against them.”

Also shining for the ‘Cats was
junior Mary Shell Brosche who won the
200 individual medley and was the top
finisher in Davidson’ s first, second, and
third place sweep of the 200 yard back-
stroke. Freshman Heidi Hester also had
an outstanding meet winning the 500
yard freestyle, while Junior Beth Wil-
son and Freshman Starr Daniell won

the 200 yard breastroke and 200 butter-
fly respectively. Regarding these per-
formances DeSelm said, “Everyone of
these swimmers put us back in position
to win the meet. Everyone on the team
was critical.”

Despite the disappointment of the
loss, DeSelm was extremely pleased
with the team’s overall effort especially
in light of the fact the ‘Cats lost to
Richmond by 50 points last season. “I
couldn’t be more proud of what we
accomplished,” Deselm said. “The team
responded with an outstanding effort,
but it would have been nice to get that
one point.”

The University of Richmond
claimed both one and three meter div-
ing events, while Freshman Liz Nugent
and Sophomore Christa Conner earned
second and third places respectively on
the one meter board.

On the other hand, the men’s team
did not have nearly as competitive a
time as the women as they defeated
Richmond easily 140 to 94. Deselm
attributed the men’s win to the versatil-
ity of his team combined with a fairly
weak Richmond program.

Standouts on the men’s team in-
cluded Senior co-captain Jay
Rosenquest who won the 1000 yard
freestyle and, as DeSelm pointed out,
had a nice improvement over his previ-
ous times. Also enjoying solid races
were Junior Scott Harper who won the

200 IM and the 500 freestyle and Fresh-.

man Michael Warner who won both the
100 and 200 freestyles.

Next on the schedule for the Wild-
cats are extremely tough Georgia South-
ernand East Carolina teams. The men’s
team fell to G. Southern in the regular
season last year and barely defeated
them in the Southern States Champion-
ships. Also, neither the men’s nor
women’s teams have ever defeated
ECU. The meet is at home this Saturday
at noon. :

@ Leisa Rossello pulls out the close win against Richmond

Sallie McMurray

Carver proves to be a tough competitor

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Many athletes relish the precious
few weeks of off-season they have
amidst their busy schedules as student-
athletes. But something tells me that
senior tennis standout Dana Carver just
doesn’t want to stop playing quite yet.
Carver closed her fall season in con-
vincing fashion, reaching the third round
of the ITA Southeastern Regional In-
door Tennis Championships at Wake
Forest University on Saturday.

Ninety women from colleges and
universities across the southeast entered

competition last weekend. Carver drew
the eleventh seed.

The Wildcat senior had also com-
peted in the tournament during her
sophomore and junior campaigns, but
with only mild success. But this year
was different.

’ Carver easily defeated Nena
Bonacic from N.C. State in the first
round, 7-5, 6-1.

After falling behind early in the
second round to University of Louis-
ville sophomore Kelly Whitler, Carver
bounced back to take the second-round
match 4-6, 6-3, 6-2.

Only sixteen players remained as
Carver entered third-round action fac-
ing Duke Blue Devil Karen Goldstein.
Goldstein proved too hot to handle,
defeating Carver 6-2, 6-1 on her way to
finals competition on Monday.

A master of understatement, the
modest senior merely remarked, “It was
a great tournament for me.”

A great tournament that Carver
and her teammates hope will carry her
through the winter until competition
resumes in January. “I’m ready for the
spring,” said Carver, “and the chance to
keep on going.”

The American Cancer Society’s

Great American SmokeOut
Thursday, November 19, 1998

“CALL FOR LIFE”

Research shows that encouragement from friends and family can help someone decide to quit
smoking. This year, the American Cancer Society’s Great American SmokeOut can help you make
a difference in a smoker’s life. Using PHONET, an automated message delivery service operated
by the Phoenix Marketing Group, someone you care about can receive a special phone call
encouraging them to quit smoking... just add their phone number to our call list.

GOOD NEWS, FOLKS!
THe EVIDENCE LINK-
ING SMOKING TO
CANCER AND HEART
DISEASE (4 ae

Your “CALL FOR LIFE” details:

@ Free Service to you and your community.

List phone numbers only... we do not need or want anyone’s name or address.

@ The “CALL FOR LIFE” message will be delivered to people and to answering machines.

@ November 16-19, 1998 -- PHONET calls to smokers will be made during this week of the
Great American SmokeOut only.

@ PHONET message delivery is performed by computer equipment and does nof involve any
telemarketers... everyone's privacy will be protected!

To participate in the “CALL FOR LIFE” program; teachers and students should create a list of
their favorite smoker’s phone numbers and deliver it to Phoenix Marketing by November 13, 1998.

It should be understood by all participants that certain Federal and State Laws require that
everyone’s privacy must be preserved. Therefore, we do not need or want anyone’s name or
address. The list of phone mimbers collected will be destroyed after the calls have been completed.
No information will be supplied to any third parties for any purpose whatsoever.

Please submit phone numbers to Georgia Ringle by 11/13, 12 noon.
geringle@davidson.edu 42982 Student Health Services

