an rhe

Davidsonian: yes, Kathy, “Let’s Get Real.”
In “apologizing” for your blatantly sexist re-
mark — “All men are potential rapists” — you
speak to the “undoubtedly many offended males.”
Well, you can include me — a woman — on your

IE reference to an article in last week’s

Stuvent OPINION
Sn oe:

list of those insulted.

I wholeheartedly agree that “women are of-
ten. . dangerously oblivious to the risks that they
take” and that fear can be an effective deterrent
from putting oneself in a dangerous position. I
agree that women should learn to defend them-

selves against possible attacks, that rape is a hei- -

nous crime, and that rapists deserve the worst of
punishment.

Yet here is where you begin to lose me: you
(and many others) say that “the goal and purpose-
ful intent [is] to increase women’s awareness of
risk” and then turn away a reporter?!? What better
way to inform college students about a program or
issue than through the campus newspaper? But to
steal your words, “That’s all beside the point.”

The point is that you are making a generaliza-
tion which unfairly groups all men under a per-
verse category regardless of the individual or even
the majority, in this case. I believe there is a term

__ THE DAVIDSONIAN.

for that — stereotyping. Whatever happened to
“innocent until proven guilty”? How can you
point a finger where no crime has been commit-
ted?

Because other women have suffocated or
drowned their children, does that mean I’m a
potential murderer?

Because other women have performed in-
cantations and sacrifices, does that mean I’m a
potential witch? ©

So maybe you protected yourself by injecting
the word “potential,” but you discredited yourself

without attaching a label to such a broad group
(i.e., an entire sex). That most rapists are men does
not mean that most men are rapists.

Let’s re-examine your catch-word “poten-
tial.” Are you saying every man possesses the
physical qualities to be the over-powering rapist,
or do you mean every man harbors the perverse

mentality necessary to commit such a wicked

violation, or both?

A distinction seems crucial. What if the man
epitomizes the former but lacks the latter? Could
we then logically and justly say that all football

4

“1 realize that rapists come in all shapes and colors, from all backgrounds
and occupations, but women can be alert and cautious without attaching
a label to such a broad group (i.e., an entire sex).”

when you said “all.” Didn’t your teacher ever tell
you the helpful hint for taking a true/false test: If
the statement includes words like “never,” “al-
ways,” “none,” or “all,” it’s probably false. The
reason: these words indicate blanket statements
which ignore particulars.

When you say “all men are potential rapists,”
are you including my devoted-to-the-family fa-
ther, my kind-hearted grandfather, my 11-year-
old brother? I realize that rapists come in all
shapes and colors, from all backgrounds and occu-
pations, but women can -be alert and cautious

players and body builders have more potential to
become rapists? Clearly not, and to suggest so is
as absurd as saying, well, that “all men are poten-
tial rapists.”

Like Randy said in his article, spouting that .

“all men are potential rapists” and other “slander-
ous generalities. . ,in no way aids anyone.” With
this insidious remark, you change the issue from
one of rape to one of chauvinism. Instead of
promoting awareness to all people (or you might
coin the term “all potential victims”), you drive a
‘wedge in the already existing gap between men

and women; you make it an issue of “us” against
“them.”

But it’s not. As a speaker at Take Back the
Night said, “Rape is about social values. It is not
a women’s issue.” If we want to combat rape we
— both women and men— have to work together.
We have to mend the rift rather than widen it.

Besides, we can’t ignore the fact that men are
raped, too. :

If, as stated at Take Back the Night, the
number of men victim to this perversion is smaller
than the number of woman, then these males
constitute a minority. By excluding this minority
from learning about self-defense, then that in itself
seems another form of sexism. I thought the
students here pleaded for equality, sought to tran-
scend racism and sexism, admired honesty and
respect.

We at Davidson College are bound by a Code
of Responsibility, a code of ethics, a Code of
Honor. Stereotyping is not responsible; it is not
ethical; and it is certainly not honorable. The fact
that we even have to discuss it is abominable.

I’m reminded of a quote I once read: “It isn’t
that they can’t see the solution. It is that they can’t
see the problem.” We have so muddied the issue
with extraneous tirades that we’ve lost sight of
which battle we are trying to fight. To be more
effective in combat, our energy needs to be con-
centrated against the real enemy. The problem,
the enemy, is rape. Let’s stop adding on to the
problem so that we might become a part of the
solution.

Women’s issues addressed year-round

Problems with Ogden’s argument

rom reading Sarah Ogden’s editorial in
R= week’s Davidsonian, one might get
the impression that women’s issues are
only addressed here at Davidson during the month

of March. This is simply wrong, and I am sorry
that such misperceptions exist. I am not the Chair
of the Women’s Month Committee. [am the Chair
of the Women’s Issues Committee, and women’s

issues are not seasonal, as Ms. Ogden was so quick:

to point out. My committee’s responsibility to
plan events around topics related to women and
gender does not end at the stroke of midhight on
Mar. 31:

Remember Katie Koestner’s* talk “and.

workshops last fall? We co-sponsored that event,
and it took place in September. Last fall we also
had an active book discussion group; we cospon-
sored the poet Joy Harjo; and we held a faculty/
student reception.

Besides, March is National Women’s Month,
not a creation of the Women’s Issues Committee
designed solely to boost at-
tendance at our events. We

from until next March rolls around.” Not if we can
help it, and not if the Women’s Month events truly
affect participants. And by all indications, people
have been affected. Throughout the month, people
have asked how they can be involved in organiza-
tions like the Women’s Issues Committee and the
Rape Awareness Committee. By. celebrating

the RAD course and the Women’s Sexual Esteem
Workshop, every one of our events has been open
to males, females, transgendered persons, you
name it. That these events are open to everyone
cannot be stressed enough. Moreover, the
Women’s Issues Committee itself is open to any-
one, as the men on the committee will testify. Any

man who has a girlfriend, a

celebrate Women’s Monthas
a way to permanently in-
crease awareness and get
people involved in a com-

“By celebrating Women’s Month and by planning events year-
round, we hope to permanently change sexist mind-sets.”’

sister, or even a mother
should feel concerned about
“women’s issues.”

It disturbs me that
such misperceptions about

mittee which challenges sex-
ism year-round. : a

I hardly think that the Women’s Issues Com-
mittee presents “limited-time offer” events. Ac-
cording to Ms. Ogden, when March is over “stu-
dents. will reabsorb themselves in their daily rou-

tines, and we will be right back where we started ~

Women’s Month and by planning events year-
round, we hope to permanently change sexist
mind-sets. ;

As for Ms. Ogden’s concern about male
attendance at Women’s Month events, I agree that
something needs to be done. With the exception of

the Women’s Issues Com-
mittee exist. We will be the first ones to tell you
that our mission is not limited to one month out of
the year, nor is our method to program all of our
events during the month of March. We invite men
and women to join us in the year-round project of
raising awareness and fighting sexisin.

ommons leaves much to be desired

the food at the Commons. When I

was a junior in high school looking

at the finest colleges and universities

our country had to offer, tours were key
to my impression of each school.

What I didn’t realize, however,

was that every one of those tours was

identical. By the end of my college

I *m going to be blunt — I don’t like

Srupent Opinion

Brian Cooke

crusade, I was capable of tour guiding
at any school. At each, I learned that
students had close interactions with the
faculty, more than half the student body
participated in varsity or intramural
sports, and that at least 70 percent of the
students was on some sort of financial
aid.

Finally, every school claimed that
their food was appetizing. After seven

months at Davidson, I definitely miss
home cooking.

Now, don’t get me wrong; the
Commons offers a wide selection of
cuisine. Two hot entrees, fresh rolls, a
sandwich bar, a pizza bar, a salad bar,
frozen yogurt and ice cream — the list
appears to be endless! But let’s take a
trip through old Vail. AfterI pick up my
tray and silverware, I usually cannot
identify the entrees. Was I just served
ravioli or the shepherd’s pie? And
don’t you hate it when either both the
entrees are your favorites or both are
untouchable?

At the sandwich bar, I never get
the exact sandwich I requested. “No, I

. didn’t ask for chicken salad with lettuce

and tomato on a bagel... I asked for
turkey and American on white.” (They

kind of sound the same.) Try a pizza

and it either is burnt or the dough is
uncooked. At the salad bar, the lettuce
is brown and the fruit is unripe. The
deserts redeem the meal, but can never
find any Cookies-n-Cream ice cream.

But don’t give up hope. There is a
solution. If you want to leave the Com-
mons full, you must be creative. Here
are some of the solutions my friends
and I have come up with to keep Vail
Commons a satisfying part of the day:

First, for entrees, be bold with
your choice. Chances are, if you’ve
never heard of it, it must be better than
if you have never tried it. But don’t be
fooled by international labels and vari-
ous names for the vegetable blends;
they’re nothing special. Second, you
can always count on the French fries.
Another hint: Don’t ask any questions
about the food. This only adds confu-
sion — the cafeteria workers are just as
clueless as you are.

For condiments, make sure you
collect a handful of Saltine crackers.

' These will be used later to challenge

friends to eating six of them in under a
minute without anything to drink. (Trust

me, it’s impossible.) Then take advan- -

tage of the new spice rack. Just close
your eyes, pick -a-random bottle, and

pour generously . Hey, it can’t make
your meal any worse.

Now, on your way to the salad bar.
The key here is to use a separate plate to
make the most immense collection of
vegetables you can imagine. Stay clear
from anything that appears to be more
than a week old. Aneffective Big Salad
will make people’s jaws drop and utter
a mere “wow.” :

Put down your plate and sprint to
the pizza bar. You probably won’t
make it through your entree and the
dressing on the salad will upset your
stomach, so you should use a pizza as a
backup plan.

Originality is most importanthere.
Don’t go for the cheese, sauce, and one-
or two-topping pizza. Try one without
cheese or sauce but with only pesto; or
the cheese, broccoli, and olives. Also,
feel free to customize your order by
adding, “Please cook twice.”

After all this hard work to satisfy
your hunger,. you must be rewarded
with dessert. Most of the Commons’s

desserts are quite tasty, but when feel-
ing inspired, here are two alternatives:
If you don’t mind another trek to the
pizza bar, order another pizza with noth-
ing on it. Take the cooked dough back
to your table and load it with butter,
honey, and cinnamon (if you can find
it). Tah-dah, the sopapia.

If you want a cold desert, make a
milkshake. Fill your glass three-quar-
ters with your favorite ice cream and
then top it off with two-percent milk.
Stir well and enjoy. Warning: Do not
use frozen yogurt. The milk freezes
intoice chips. (Thanks to Amelia Fuller
for this advice.)

Don’t be tempted into thinking
that meals at the Commons are a time to
unwind and relax with friends. These
prove to be the most important times of
the day to have your creative juices
flowing and your thinking caps on. If
not, then you will fall into the dark and
bottomless pit of eating at the Outpost
and ordering from Papa John’s every
night. And soon you will be broke.
