Che

DYAWAD SION GOH ae)

“The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
EstABLISHED 1914

Caffeine.
It’s on Main Street.

News 5

avidson

A-L:BoN. DA clo: UB I

He just won’t go away.
Randy opines on chivalry.

OPINIONS 9

O.R T.A....L 1 B.ER.T.AS

Big, bad cyprus.
Red about the Tree of the Week.

A&L10

Volleyball trounces four.
Girls kick ass.

SPorTs 12

@ The new Watson Science Building will be home to new technology provided by a $40,000 National Science Foundation grant.

er:

ara Cromwe

New life sciences building nears completion

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Staff Writer

It’s official. The dedication of the Watson Life Sciences Building will take place on October Ist.
“At that time,” said Physical Plant director Bob Collins, “the building will be 99.9% complete.”

According to the original building contract, work progress is. actually right on schedule. Only
because of a set of overly optimistic verbal concessions from the project contractor did college
authorities believe the building might have been ready for occupation by the very beginning of this
academic year. “Everything’s in use and the faculty are already in their offices,” stated Collins. “All
in all, it looks pretty good right now.”

The key emphasis throughout the building project,
according to Collins, has been customer satisfaction.
Project coordinators have continually solicited and sought
to accommodate faculty requests. ‘Faculty members
have been involved all along, even in some of the .major
decision processes,” related the Physical Plant director.

The latest adjustments to the building have focused
primarily on interior technological instruments, data sys-
tems and networking. Refiguration petitions were still
flowing in as recently as thirty days ago. “There came a
point when we had to draw the line,” said Collins. “That was about a month ago. We told faculty, ‘If
you want a building that’s useable any time in the near future, the demands have to slow to a halt.’ ”
Collins said the flurry of faculty requests over the last few months can be attributed to the fact that most

Everything’s in use and the
faculty are already in their
offices.” - Physical Plant
Director Bob Collins

Over 50 organizations represented at Volunteer Fair

By ALLIsoNn BISHOP

people can’t properly visualize the interior detail of a building until they actually step foot inside of it.
“It’s difficult for the average person to understand the ins and outs of a building from the blueprints,”
said Collins. ;

Although supply deliver delays, weather problems, and labor issues have continually threatened
the timeline for project completion, Collins maintained that the actual time of construction has been
more than reasonable: “From groundbreaking to occupancy, a complex project like this usually takes
in excess of twenty-four months. We did it in a lot less than that. Everyone has worked very hard and
there’s been a great deal of cooperation.”

After the Oct. 1st dedication ceremony, Collins and his staff will focus on “punch list” items such
as electrical wiring or ventilation system deficiencies. “When you’ re dealing with a new facility, it’s

_ hever perfect at the start,” stated Collins. “I don’t view buildings as complete until about a year after

they’re occupied, when I’ ve had some time to evaluate and gain assurance of stability and reliability.
A lot of fine tuning is involved, a lot of quality control issues.’ >

Collins contends that the Watson Life Sciences Building is equal to or better than many graduate
research institutions. “We’re ahead of the pack. The data processing capability in there is astounding.”
The building’s state-of-the-art facilities, said Collins, promise to complement the superior level of
instruction which has always been the standard at Davidson. ~

“Where we were five years ago and where we are now is like night and day. Public response has
been overwhelmingly positive,” said Collins. “I just hope that, with technology changing so rapidly,
our vision for the future is strong enough. Vision and cost efficiency are obviously intertwined.”

For Collins, the completion of the Watson Life Sciences Building holds, in a sense, a bitter-sweet
taste. “I always must play both the role of the eternal optimist and the extreme pessimist; the optimist
to embrace the new, the pessimist to insure for it’s quality down the line.”

Staff Writer

On Thursday, Sept. 3, Davidson’s annual volunteer fair was held in Chambers Gallery from | 1a.m. to 3p.m. The volunteer fair is held each
year to provide students with an opportunity to preview and collect information about service organizations in and around the Davidson areas.
Programs represented range in focus from literacy organizations to Cub Scouts, and range in location from the Ada Jenkins Community Center
to downtown Charlotte. Approximately 53 organizations were represented. Thirty-three organizations were from Davidson and various other

outside community groups, while 20 organizations came from Reach Out.

The volunteer fair is “really the major time where we (Davidson) match up volunteers with the community,” said community service
coordinator Bill Abrams. Abrams explained that most of the organizations are able to hire only a few full-time staff, so the addition of volunteers

makes a huge difference.

Reachout president Britta Taylor said, “We want Davidson.students to be excited to get out here and work.”
The volunteer fair has, in the past several years, become widely publicized and produced. Publicity for the event includes sidewalk chalk
invitations, colored announcements for practically every student, posters, fliers, voice mail, footprints in the hallway of Chambers, music, food,

sandwich boards on students at the door, and balloons everywhere.

Volunteer support, as mentioned by Abrams, is present in every organization to some extent. Olene Taylor from Alexander Middle School

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid

explained that she needs ten to eleven tutors to help her students after school. Only thirty minutes after the start of the fair, eight people had signed
up. Taylor came to the fair last year and was so overcome by the quality of the Davidson tutors that she hoped to get many more this year. Fran
Landress, a representative from One-to-One Tutoring, also expressed her amazement of the “overwhelming support” offered by Davidson students.

Landress admitted that many would not spend the hour a week tutoring others, which is the reason she is “so impressed” by Davidson students. —

_ Forthose who were unable to attend the volunteer fair and want to become involved, contact bill Abrams at 892-2460 or biabrams @ davidson.edu.

Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

