THE DAVIDSONIAN

field research methods, and Spanish etebege and.culture,.
Credits may be transferred from Duke University.

a hands-on experiential leaning @ independent field projects
® cultural immersion # extended stays at remote field sites
m home stays @ éxtensive travel to diverse ecosystems

For brochure and application materials, contact

Organization for Tropical Studies, Duke University ;
919 684-5774 8 e-Mail <nao@acpub.duke.edu>®: baputworion dike ey
Anolon dain 1999 Spring semen ete 9, A:

~y A consortium of universities sscoiat leadership
BTS in education, research and chaser use af
natural resources in the tropics...”

Study

Health advisors educate students

BY LaurA McCANDLISH

Staff Writer

Health Educator Georgia Ringle stands as the main
source behind health awareness at Davidson, but as one
person, she can’t do it all. In order to make health care
services and advice more available to students, Ringle has
Student Health Advisors; the five this year include sopho-
mores Kim Biemuller, Ed Diggins,

sible.” She also mentioned that contraceptives handed out
at these hall programs became a point of controversy, yet
she felt it was important for the students to hear the message
to be prepared for any situation. “We want students to be
have a good time while staying aware of their surround-
ings,” Hapgood explained, She also stressed that while the
hall programs are given from the perspective that some of
the freshmen will be drinking, “in no way are the programs

meant to advocate the use of alcohol.”

and, Jenny Hapgood, junior Anne
Stancil, and senior Brett Simpson. The

In addition to the hall pro-
gramming, the Health Advisors have

Health Advisors came to school dur-
ing orientation to participate in train-
ing, and they receive a small stipend
each semester for their work.

Diggins said, “Our job is to help Geor-
gia Ringle in getting the word out to
students about how important student
health is.” Students are often uncom-

Our job is to help Georgia
Ringle in getting the word
out to students about how
important student health is.

--Ed Diggins, Student
Health Adviser

a radio show on WALT 1610AM,
The H Spot, which airs at 9 on Sunday
nights. The show has a call-in, ques-
tion and answer format, covering top-
ics like drinking, sex, stress, androom-
mate problems.

In addition to the radio show,
the Health Advisors have a weekly

Journey to Nicaragua
Spring Break
Information Session and Application Distribution
Tuesday, October 6, 1998
10:00pm

Home Room of the Student Union

*

Questions?

Rev. Andy Baxter
Davidson United Methodist Church
892-8277

Rev. Rob Spach
Davidson College Chaplain
, 892-2420
rospach@davidson.edu

fortable talking to adults about per-

sonal health problems, and so the

Health Advisors ‘“‘add a student face to student health,”
Diggins said. -

This fall the Health Advisors main responsibility has
been to put on alcohol and sexual awareness programs for
the freshmen halls. The programs cover the risks and health
implications associated with drinking, drug use, and “hook-
ing up.” Diggins said that the programs stress both physical
and mental health.

Hapgood hoped the programs educated the freshmen
about “safety and knowing their limits with alcohol, so that
they could go to First Night Down confident and respon-

column in The Davidsonian. They
are also planning to hold depression
awareness days in October and flu-shot days later this fall.

Biemuller encourages students to use the Health Ad-
visors as resources, available for confidential contact 24
hours a day. “That’s what we’re here for,” she said, “It’s
sad when you hear people saying that they had no one to talk
to. They just have to take the initiative to seek us out.”

Ringle said the group is “excellent at their jobs. They
have a nice blend of humor, seriousness, and health ability
that is necessary for health education. It’s wonderful for me
to have their support,” she said, “Having Health Advisors
is one of the best ideas I’ve ever had.”

Olé Olé at the
Lake

Is Now Hiring Servers
For Evenings

Apply in Person at Exit 28 in
Cornelius

Knowledge of Spanish is a Plus,
But Not Required

- secre

The Village Store is celebrating
the end of the season with a storewide
clearance sale, offering a large number

of items at 10-50% off.

SAY "HELLO" TO
THE VILLAGE STORE!
Welcome back, Davidson hoa

in this coupon for $5 OFF
Basco ne this ope

any one item.
One coupon per customer, please. Expires 10/15/98. .

The Village Store

110 - VILAGE 704/892-4440
In THE Heart oF Historic Downtown DaAviDSON
FINE 7 AND ACCESSORIES FOR 32 YEARS

