THE DAVIDSONIAN

Agents of Good Roots ignites Spring Frolies

By Wes.ey H. GotpsBerry
Arts & Living Editor

It rained on Friday evening. This brought the
traditionally outdoor inflatable festival of mirth
and joy known as Spring Frolics into the hallowed
confines of historic Johnston Gym. Hundreds of
Davidson students were left to do their auctioning,
jousting, sliding, dunk tanking, and bungee-run-
ning “Hoosiers” style.

But just as the weather didn’t stop the throng
from enjoying itself, neither did it prevent the
groove train that was Agents of Good Roots from
performing a good 75 minutes of both original ahd
borrowed rock and jazz.

The band began playing at around 9:00 p.m.
Most of the crowd arrived late, but steadily grew
after the first couple of songs. The Agents played
several tracks off of their latest CD (“One by
One”) including “Come On,” “Where'd You Get
That Vibe?,” “Miss America,” and “Upspin.”

As usual, the band passed lead vocal respon-
sibilities around the stage, with guitarist/
keyboardist Andrew Winn lending his raspy voice
to “Smiling Up the Frown,” “Come On” and
others. Maniacal drummer Brian Jones sang lead
on “Two Bucks in Cash,” “Where’d You Get That
Vibe?,” and soulful bassist Stewart Myers did
“Bum Club” and “Upspin.” Agents of Good

Roots’s jazzy side manifested itself through sev-
eral sax jams courtesy of J.C. Kuhl.

The group performed a few covers as well,
including Dire Straits’s “Sultans of Swing” and

Paul Simon’s classic “50 Ways to Leave Your’

Lover.” Unfortunately, the familiarity of these
tunes seemed to float right over the audience’s
head. The crowd was also treated to two Agents
tunes, “Bum Club” and “Dress Circle,” which they
had not performed since early 1997.

The band had planned to do a two-song
encore, but they cut the performance short in light
of the audience’s waning enthusiasm. Fortu-
nately, the relatively short gig was frought with.
energy and verve. Agents of Good Roots seemed
to enjoy their stay at Davidson, with several band
members taking a pre-concert jog around
Richardson Field's state-of-the-art asphalt track.

In what might be one of the last opportunities
to see them ona small local stage, Agents of Good
Roots will be performing on April 26 in Charlotte.
Rumors that they will be opening for the Dave
Matthews Band on portions of their summer tour
continue to circulate. And if Dave Matthews likes
them, then conventional wisdom says that we
Davidson folk should too.

A&L Editor’s Note: Kirk Willingham con-
tributed immensely to this article.

@ Agents of Good Roots turned desolate Johnston Gym into a
rockin’ Johnston Gym last Friday during Spring Frolics.

_ TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1998

Amadeus Trio gives “world-class” performance

By WEs_LeY H. GoLpsBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

It'll be acold day in Ouagadougou
before three instrumentalists on Hodson
stage make sounds this pristine again.

The Amadeus Trio performed the
fifth and final concert of this year’s
Davidson College Concert Series last
Monday night in Hodson Hall, “The
Piedmont’ s Palace of Classical Music.”
This chamber ensemble is made up of
Marian Hahn (piano), Timothy Baker
(violin), and Jeffrey Solow (cello).

The concert began with a perfor-
mance of Beethoven’s Trio in D Major,
Op. 70, No. | (“Ghost’’). This piece was
quite enthralling, although longer than
I expected it to be. Nonetheless, the trio
did a splendid job with it, and it wasn’t
long before the audience began to dis-
cover why they have been called “one
of the most dynamic chamber music
groups toemerge inrecentyears.” Timo-

thy Baker’s violin skills were nothing
short of “mad” — his performance was
virtually flawless, showcasing exem-
plary artistic and technical proficiency.
Marian Hahn’s keyboard talents were
equally evident, as she too delivered a
commendable performance. Jeffrey
Solow, as one might expect, could play
cello better than the average bear.

The second piece on the program
was Astor Piazzolla’ s (1921-92) “Three
Pieces for Piano Trio.” The first of
these, Primavera Portena, incorporated
lots of Latin American rhythms which
were a welcome change from
Beethoven’s early Romanticism. The
third piece, entitled Tango
revolucionario, incorporated a highly
difficult cello part and a crazy fast
violin solo, in which Baker seemed to
hit every note. Piazzolla’s composi-
tions were the highlight of the concert
for many.

Dvorak’s Trio in F Minor (Op.

65) comprised the entire second half of
the performance. The ensemble dis-
played the same brilliance with which
they had performed the Beethoven. The
musicians were clearly well-rehearsed,
and furthermore seemed to possess an
intimate knowledge of each other’s play-
ing — probably representative of the
type of rapport that develops after six
years of performing together.

One of the most fascinating things
about the Amadeus Trio was Timothy
Baker’s violin, the famous “Guitar”
Stradivarius, made in 1725 by the then-
82-year-old craftsman. The violin was
formerly under the ownership of violin
virtuoso Joshua Bell, but don’t tell Mr.
Baker that you thought you’d seen his
violin somewhere before, because he’s
been hearing the same thing for five
years and it won’t impress him a bit.

Mr. Baker is a graduate of the
Juilliard School and has-been perform-
ing as aconcert soloist with professional

symphony orchestras fortwo
decades. Mr. Solow has per-
formed over twenty cello
concertos and has given solo

’ recitals all over the world.
He is also a regarded as an
outstanding teacher. Ms.
Hahn is a graduate of both
Oberlin College and the
Juilliard School, and has per-
formed many recitals in the
United States and Europe.
She is on faculty at the
Peabody Conservatory of
Music in Baltimore.

The Amadeus Trio con-
cert last Monday night pro-
vided a most worthy conclu-
siomto an outstanding 1997-
98 Concert Series. They’ ve
been receiving rave reviews
across the nation for six years,
and they deserve nothing less
from us.

www.amadeustrio.com

@ The Amadeus Trio

On the Scene at Davison COLLEGE.

Coffeehouse. Get a cup of joe for your friend Frank.
8:15. a.m. - 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Art Exhibits. Think of them as movies set on pause.
10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. daily at the VAC.

Jumpin’ Java. Get something to nourish your weary
brain. 7:30 - 12:30 p.m. in the Outpost.

Marjorie Agosin. For more information contact
Magdalena Maiz-Pefia. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Inter City Outing. For more information, contact Debbi
Berry. 8:30 - 9:30 p.m. in the Morrison Room.
Twenty-one Year Old Night. This one's for you. (Must
be 21 and have two valid IDs to participate. Void where
prohibited.) 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

Sarah Woodard Sale. Buy stuff from
Sarah. 11:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. in in the
Union Lobby.

CROP Lunch. Discuss hunger while
eating lunch. 11:30.a.m. - 1:30 p.min
the 900 Room.

Climbing Wall. It’s happy, it’s fun, it’s
happy fun wall. Play with it. But be
careful. 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in Johnston

Cheap Donuts. Frostedforalmost Easter Break. You should be home.
You shouldn't be reading this.
April 11. Happy Birthday Wes.

free. 8:00 a.m - 5:00 p.m. in the
Union Lobby.

Coffeehouse. Mmmm, mocha.

- 8:15- 11:15 a.m. in the 900 Room.

No Friday Afternoon Club. You
should be home or sleeping. Nor-
mally at 4:30 - 7:30 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Easter Break. The Easter Bunny is
not your friend, he has taken your
eggs. Find them.

TUESDAY _

Gym.

Sot Ss

Environmental Summit Conference. Con-
fer about the environment. 8:00 a.m. - 12:00
p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Climbing Wall. Guys, show off to the girl-
friend; Girls, laugh at the boyfriend. 7:00 -
8:30 p.m. in the Johnston Gym.

Habitat for Humanity. Build houses for a
good cause. 8:00 - 9:00 p.m in the Home
Room. y :

Patterson Court Council. Off the
Court and on the record. 7:30 - 9:00
~p.m. in the Union Conference Room.
Kayak Rolling. Pretend that you're
on a river, rolling some kayaks. 7:30
- 9:30 p.m. in Baker Pool.
DC Symphony Orchestra Concert.
Listen to Mozart and Beethoven. Bring

_ adate. 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in the Love

* Auditorium.

Easter Break Begins. Go home.
Dye some eggs.

Easter Break. More sleep.

