THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, APRIL 28; 1998

Can you handle the truth? _

So, I’ve been thinking. I’ve had a lot of time to think this summer, actually, about a lot of things.
Of late, though, my ponderings have turned in the direction of all those evaluations I filled out at the end
of last semester. I guess I can blame this on our beloved Cambridge Program Resident Director and his
many subtle comments. “You know,” he said often, “your evaluations of this program and of your tutors
will be key in determining what remains the same for students next year.” Well, he said something like
that, anyway.

In any case, though, I’ ve been thinking about the four professors’ evaluations I dutifully completed
in May. For those of you who don’t know (ahem, frosh), each student is expected, at the end of each
semester, to evaluate each professor in each class they’ve taken. These evaluations are reportedly
important in determining various things, but mostly, they’ re important because Davidson cares what you
think (or, at least, pretends to). .

In fact, Davidson pushes us to evaluate all sorts of things, from professors to. study abroad programs
(and their tutors) to plans for the new Union to the Residence Life staff. As a Hall Counselor, I even had
to evaluate Residence Life’s training of me. This is Davidson’s way of saying, “We care. Please
continue to spend errermous amounts of your money here.” :

My question, then, is: If Davidson really cares that much, if they’re so big on these evaluations,
why do students have no official means to evaluate the administration? Why is there not a slip of paper
asking what we think of President Vagt, or Dean Shandley?

; Ican think of several reasons why not. The first, and least charitable, is that the administration just
doesn't want to hear what students think. Why should they? They’re the untouchables, wielding
extraordinary powers without ever having to hear the from those they affect.

But I don’t think that’s the case. So what could it be? Perhaps our administrators have thus far been
spared students’ sometimes brutal honesty because they don’t interact with students as often. I think,
though, that much of the administration would argue that they are just (or almost) as intricate a part of
student life as professors are.

Okay, then, on the other side of the coin, maybe they don’t believe students take a great enough
interest in the administration to be able to evaluate how well they’re doing it. But that would pretty much
contradict the idea of the administration’s being involved in student life, now, wouldn’t it? If they are
indeed that important, don’t we pretty much have to take an interest in them? We need a capacity to
evaluate them simply because of their level of involvement (or, for argument’s sake, because of their
lack of involvement).

But perhaps the blame falls on us, the students. Since so many of us bemoan our hectic schedules
that leave little time for sleep, the administration may not think that anyone would take the time to
complete an evaluation — an optional, extra task (the first thing to go when we prioritize).

Now, I’m hardly one to state the obvious, but I wonder if anyone has considered evaluating, the
administration in the first place. Here I am, villainizing these fine, hard-working people who help hold _-
this school together (and there is no facetiousness to that remark, really), and it’s just that the idea hasn’t
occurred to them. Wow, silly me.

So, now that I’ve thought of it for them, what do you think the reaction will be? (I don’t know, but

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

_Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

News Editors
LIZ NEIHEISEL

Sports Editors
ALLISON KALETT

; BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY SCOTT REEDER Layout Editors
MELISSA ANN de CASTRIQUE CATHERINE CORNWELL
Circulation Manager BEN COVINGTON
Op-Ed Editor. EUGENIA LEATH JOHN DUNWOODY
ERIN McKINLEY CADER HOWARD
a . Advertising Managers EVAN McCORMICK
Copy Editors PETER CLARK WILL PARKER
WHITNEY BLAKE DAVID JOHNSTON KAREN SWEENEY
CINDY CLARK AILEEN WATERS
JOHN DUNWOODY
STEPHANIE ERICKSON Photo Editor
MOLLY MARKARIAN SALLIE McMURRAY
Photographers
SARA CROMWELL
RANDY SKATTUM

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

Submitall letters to the Davidsonian office on the third floor of the Union by Thursday at noon.
Or e-mail any submissions to Davidsonian@ davidson.edu.

Please turn in any submissions on a Macintosh-formatted disk, preferably saved in either
WordPerfect or Rich Text formats. All submissions should be no longer than 500 words.

The editors reserve the right to cut and otherwise adjust submissions for space requirements
and clarity. No anonymous submissions will be published. .

I guess I’ll find out soon enough.) And if we were able to evaluate the administration in some official
capacity, what kinds of questions would they ask on the evaluation? What would we say in response?
Don’t worry, I won’t go there. Yet.

But hark. .. Inspiration striketh! No, there is currently no official evaluation for the head honchos.
But — there are several more indirect ways for students to express their views of our beloved
administrators, including through opinions expressed in publications such as The Davidsonian and
Libertas. It may not be formal, but at least it’s a relatively effective way to declare one’s feelings on the
various Deans and President who help control our school. And we know they’ re reading — we’ ve heard
about it. :

The drawback to such a public, conspicuous expression of opinion is the vulnerability of the
columnists.. They may (and / certainly do) fear incurring the wrath of the all-powerful. We all want
to graduate someday, after all — preferably from Davidson. ;

So, although our joyous newspapers do provide opportunities for some outlet of feeling, students
still need a more official, anonymous way by which to evaluate their administrators.

Can you handle the truth?

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS @

Room in the Inn a success

To theEditor:

Last May, Room in the Inn officially ended for the 1997-98 school year. The program ended its
ninth week of hosting homeless guests from the Charlotte area on Mar. 28. Though the program began
hosting only five guests during the first three weeks, seven guests were successfully hosted for the last
six weeks of the program.

Over 50 students served as volunteers who helped with everything from cleaning Johnston Gym
to playing spades with the guests during free time. Some of the highlights of the program included an
outing with the guests to a Davidson Basketball game, which concluded with a basketball player
stopping by the gym to sign autographs and meet the guests; a field trip to a community gospel sing; and
numerous visits to the game room to play pool (the Davidson students were routinely stomped by the
guests). ‘

The volunteers found that the program was not only meaningful but incredibly fun. Most had the
expectation that conversation would be tense or relations with the guests would be awkward because of
the obvious differences between the two groups. To the students’ surprise, friendships came easily with
guests and the differences were insignificant. The students were treated to hours of storytelling and
plenty of advice throughout the program. The volunteers learned about the many different ways one can
become homeless and about obstacles which must be overcome once a person is homeless.

Although the program does not attempt to solve homelessness, it does attempt to transform the
perception those who work with the program hold of homelessness. The campus was one of the most
requested sites by the guests, according to the Urban Ministry Center. The guests enjoyed the numerous
activities offered on the campus as well the nonjudgmental attitudes of the students.

On behalf of those involved in Room in the Inn, I would like to thank everyone who made this

——_}—-program-possible.-_We_are especially_appreciative to-Vail Commons -for donating meals for-all-of the

guests; to the Residence Life Office for donating the beds for the guests; to the College laundry service
for providing sheets and faithfully washing towels and bedding every week; to the College Union for
allowing us to use the space in Johnston Gym; to the Physical Plant for donating all the supplies that kept
the room and bathrooms clean; and to Davidson Outdoors for their incredible support in numerous
matters. I would also like to thank all the students who supported the program by volunteering, by
donating to the collection drive for supplies, or by simply treating the guests with respect. As a
community, we have established a program which will continue to affect the campus for years to come.

Sincerely,
Liz Clasen ‘00
Coordinator of “Room in the Inn”
Crazy Joe, at it again... .

To the Editor: .

When I returned to Davidson fora brief visit Tuesday before leaving to study abroad for a year, I
discovered a most fascinating magic trick had been performed by the Union Cafe. It was a vanishing
act like none I had ever seen before. Suddenly, whole shelves and cases of items that I simply took for
granted were gone forever. In their place was a reduced inventory store that looked smaller than what
I could buy from a street vendor with a pushcart in New York City. Perhaps we should call it the Union
Cupboard now. Once upon a time it used to be hard for me to use up my bonus bucks. Now I ponder
why they would be on my CATCARD anyhow since this “cafe” is the only place you can spend them.

Speaking about spending money, with the exception of the Outpost, the cafe is the only store on
campus. If you didn’t have a car or didn’t have time to walk across the tracks (and after all, this is
Davidson) the Union was the only place to get a variety of different consumer goods. Now the shelves
that housed these products have vanished forever and in their place is. ., NOTHING!

All this is being done for the sake of making the grill of the Union more efficient. Would someone
please tell me why we are trying to be so efficient with the grill when we are building a new Union that
will be ready in a few years? I cannot understand why, when our tuition has been raised, our selection
in the cafe would plummet! The grill may be important at lunch, but its fluctuating off-peak hours were
neither posted nor known by most students. The former inventory of previous years included bottled
sodas and fruit drinks, as well as an assortment of frozen foods. Unlike the grill, they were all available
until closing time.

T even was able to get Hot Pockets when I asked the Union manager to see if she could find them
from one of her distributors. This is why I am so sad to see the frozen foods go. Perhaps the greatest
embarrassment right now would go to Admissions, which has to explain to prospectives at Discover
Davidson why we have such a small cafe. [know that the Cafe is in the process of being refurbished and
is not yet complete. However, it deeply upsets me that the student members of the Auxiliary Services
Committee were not asked about a change this drastic last spring. Maybe our input is part of this
disappearing act, too.

I would like to encourage all Davidson students who are disappointed with the new cafe to call, fax,
or e-mail Dee Philips, Richard Terry, and Julie Mills. The opinions I have expressed are not only mine
but a collaboration of the opinions of my fellow students and my constituents. To me it seems clear: If
the cafe wants to change things this dramatically, then the next thing to vanish will be its customers.

Joe Hayworth ’00
Independent Senator
