“The World’s

Foremost College Weekly” nnn
8 si Capitalists get more money.
° Student investors receive endowment.
EstaBLisHED 1914

News 4

Opinions explode.

OPINIONS 5-8.

Concert wows parents.
Choir, symphony, et al:do Love.

SPORTS INSERT

Racist act sparks
student dialogue

By Ket_s HETHERINGTON
Staff Writer

Early on Saturday, Oct. 24, two residents of 1st Central Belk found a defaced
poster advertising a talk by Dyln Glenn ’91 . Glenn’s face had been crossed out
by a green X, and a racial slur had been written in light blue lettering. Students
found the poster ina section of Ist Belk where six out of the eight residents identify
themselves as minorities.

Since Dean Shandley sent a voice-mail message to every member of the
Davidson College community on Monday, Oct. 26, many students were asking
exactly how the College is going to respond to the incident. In several interviews
with Dean Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Students and advisor to the Black Student
Coalition; Dean Shandley, Vice-President of Student Life and Dean of Students;
and President Vagt have made clear that the administration will take action. “Not
to respond at all,” Vagt said, “‘is like you get a chunk of the mortar that holds this
community together and do nothing to repair the damaged area. After only a little
while so much mortar has fallen to the ground that not enough remains to support
the community.” No reforms have been implemented yet, nor has any restructur-
ing been done because “real reform takes time,” said Jeffries.

According to both Vagt and Shandley, Ann-Harriot Fisher ‘99, SGA Presi-
dent, and Chris Tuttle ‘99; SGA Vice President, were the week’s leaders.
“Monday morning, Ann-Harriot and Chris were in here talking with me about the
idea of a having an open student forum,” Dean Shandley remarked. President Vagt
commended Fisher’s leadership, “she really understands the flag has to be carried
by the majority of students,”

- Several minority students expressed a positive reaction to the College’s
initial response. Marie Sharp ‘01, a resident of first Belk and one of the first to see
the defaced sign, said, “I spoke with President Vagt and Dean Shandley person-
ally, and they are very motivated to do something in reaction to what happened.”
She continued, “I don’t really want to say that the College is doing all that it can,
but at the same time, I think I speak for the whole minority population when I say
that I can appreciate the community response.” Ainsley Natta ‘99, the Black
Student Coalition President, said, “I spoke with Dean Shandley who said that he
would do everything he could to remedy the situation.” Natta hopes that the
incident will get the attention he feels it deserves and not “be brushed under the
rug as past episodes like this have been.” Allen Lee ‘01, co-chair of the Council
on Minority Affairs, said of the College’s initial response, “I was extremely
pleased with the SGA’s planning the forum for Wednesday night before their
regular Tuesday meeting.”

Upset students put up yellow signs that carried the racial slur written across
Dyln Glenn’s face in bold lettering. Below the racial slur on these signs in
substantially smaller print appeared an appeal to all who were offended by such
language to attend the SGA. meeting on Tuesday. Although the signs disappeared
within several hours of their being put up, many students of all ethnic backgrounds
appeared at the SGA meeting.

After President Fisher dispensed with the business on the Senate’s agenda on
Tuesday Oct.27, a lengthy question period followed. Even President Vagt left a
gathering in Charlotte, where his former boss Mario Cuomo was speaking, to sit
in the gallery and listen to the questions that the students put to SGA. Although
the question period was intended to be a time when students could ask questions
about what exactly happened and not voice their personal sentiments on the
incident, the question period erupted into a debate over whether putting up the
yellow signs was appropriate.

At Wednesday night’s open forum, several students suggested solutions to
ease racial tension at Davidson: shutting down the College for Martin Luther King
Day, making a course in African American history a diploma requirement,
amending the Davidson Honor Code to include acts of racism, and hiring more
black professors.

When asked how she and her roommate Rebecca Essah ‘01 felt when they
first heard about the incident, Sharp responded, “Essah and I really wanted to
throw (the defaced poster) away, burn it, never see the thing again. We were mad.”
Speaking of how the incident has changed the consciousness of minorities here at
Davidson, Essah said, “We as a hall are much more aware of our surroundings now
and who is coming through.” :

When the two girls who found the poster showed it to the Black Student
Coalition’s members during the Kindred Moment, an open forum that follows
each of the group’s meetings, Natta said that he was “speechless” and that “there
were no words to describe how I felt.” Natta believes that the Davidson
Community is finally being made aware of the racism here on campus. He credited
the membership of the Black Student Coalition with not allowing the incident to
be forgotten as many similar incidents were in the 1980's.

Lee expressed his lack of shock or surprise from the incident because he feels
that it was not isolated. Dean Jeffries said that all day Monday he was getting
visited in his office by African American students upset about the weekend
incident and received many e-mails expressing concern.

DAVIDSON COMMUNITY PUT ON

A&Lil

BY RECENT EVENTS

Suspicious persons reported

By CarriE ARTHUR
News Editor

Two reported incidents involving suspicious persons
have occurred on campus. In each incident, Davidson stu-
dents were either chased or followed.

On Oct. 13 around 11p.m., two female students went to,
the-Post-Office. While they were in the lobby, a white male
with dark hair and a dark complexion entered. He was

wearing a long sleeve black t-shirt, black jeans, black gloves,

and aclown mask. Because he did nothing but stare at them,
the two women left the Post Office. Once they reached Phi
and Eu Halls, the students noticed a man who was standing by
the bushes staring at them. They described the man as being
white, between eighteen to twenty years old, approximately
5’6” tall, and around 140 Ibs. He had a pale complexion and
short blonde hair. As the women passed the man, another man
wearing a white mask and black clothing came out from
behind the bushes and pursued them. The two students then
ran to Belk Dormitory without turning around to see if the man
had followed them. —

These two women also reported that another student told
them about an incident involving possibly the same men. As
she was running around the track at Richardson Field on Oct.
13, the student saw a similar group of men watching her run.
This student. immediately ran to her dormitory.

The other incident occurred on Oct. 17 at approximately
11:50 PM. Two students were returning from the Union to
their rooms. As they took a shortcut through Chambers, a
suspicious male began to follow them. The women then
decided to jog, but the man. continued to follow until they
found another group of students. The man then left. The two
students described the man as being white, approximately 35
years old, 5’11”, 170 lbs, and a brunette. He was wearing
glasses, jeans, and a light colored tshirt.

Sam McKelvey, Director of the Campus Police, said of
the incidents, “it concerns me, and we would like to identify
who was responsible and have a better feel for who it was.”
Still, he emphasized that the suspicious persons could have
been coming from a Halloween party and playing a joke.
McKelvey explained that the lag time in reporting the inci-
dents makes finding the perpetrators difficult: the first inci-
dent occurred on Oct. 13 but was not reported until Oct. 22; the
second happened on Oct. 17 but was reported on Oct. 18. Both

McKelvey and Officer Marshall Fleming stressed that re-
porting occurrences as soon as they happen is vital.

As for safety on campus, McKelvey said, “even though
it’s a relatively safe campus, I think individuals still need to
take precautions” because “public safety can provide some
protection, but the students themselves need to” look out for
their own safety as well. McKelvey feels that the physical
location of the campus and make-up of the community is safe,
but he said, “T’m reluctant to say it’s free from any potential
crime because that’s not accurate.” I-77 provides easy access
to the College.

McKelvey is concerned about the women he has seen

jogging alone at night and students he has seen walking by
themselves through dark areas of campus. He hopes that no
one jogs on the cross country trails at night . As for the safety
measures on campus, McKelvey said officers read the reports
daily and then cover those areas more. Depending upon the
night and its activities, one or more officers are always on
duty 24 hours, and more support is available during the day.
Also, two light surveys each semester check how well the
campus is lit, and the police test the emergency phones once
a month. McKelvey wants to elicit the input of concerned
students and the SGA.
; When asked what his advice was for students being
chased, McKelvey suggested that students “run to an area
that they believe will be populated and will be well lit,” such
as the Student Health Center. Although each situation varies
according to its unique circumstances, McKelvey saw con-
frontation as “not advisable.”

When asked if the lack of a detective on staff from last
semester’s budget cuts caused difficulties, McKelvey re-
plied, “my experience has been with a department this size in
an environment like this.. I think that we have adequate man
power to do investigations. Do we suffer any from the
reduction? I don’t think so.” He explained that each officer
has undergone standard North Carolina police training which
includes investigation techniques. McKelvey feels, “indi-
vidual the officers have the expertise to conduct their own”
investigations.

McKelvey plans to continue investigating the incidents
if “other people offer information.” He cannot confirm sto-
ries about other suspicious people because they have not been
reported, but McKelvey encourages students to report suspi-
cious people and occurrences as soon as possible.

OPRFEDD: seisciacssaois Levealenipidshsedyvesstoct @
ARTS & LIVING ..................5. 10
SPORTS .......scssessssesecsessneeseeneeses 16

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

