' “The Nation’s
Foremost College Weekly”
Sd
EsTABLISHED 1914

i ee eG

ke

Bring your own.
.Alcohol Policy changes proposed.

NEws 2

America sucks.
Business over human tights?

OPINIONS 6

"hai eS BBS

Kind of bald.
We have Good Roots, though.

A&L7

Men’s Tennis blanks Wofford.

‘Cats doing well in conference.

SPORTS 9

@ With Decision Davidson coming up, a number of prospective students and their families will

SERS

begin touring their schools of choice.

7

fr"

Srey

.

Duke Endowment
fae comes to campus

By Liz NEIHEISEL

i»

biannual visit.

Sallie McMurray

News Editor

On Tuesday, Apr. 7, representatives of the Duke En-
dowment toured Davidson’s campus for the Endowment’s
Executive Director Dr. Elizabeth H. Locke
joined President Bobby Vagt to discuss the investment of
Endowment grants on campus, including the new wing of the
life sciences building, and Vagt’s announcement of a three-
year, $15 million campaign to raise money for additional
financial aid resources.

The initiative is a direct response to the Duke
Endowment’s recent gift of $2 million to strengthen the
James B. Duke Scholarship. Joining Locke from the Endow-
ment were Chair of the Duke Endowment Board of Trustees
Mary D. B. T. Semans, trustees Charles F. Myers 33,
Chancellor Emeritus of Duke University William G. Anylan,
“former Provost of Duke University Thomas A. Langford ’51,
former Vice President of Duke University Juanita M. Kreps,
Constance Gray PT, Richard H. Jenrette, Thomas S. Kenan
II, Louis C. Stephens, Hugh M. Chapman, Mary Duke Trent
Jones, James B. Duke Professor Emeritus of History John
Hope Franklin, John G. Medlin, L. Neil Williams, Jr., and
Russell M. Robinson II.

Both Gray and Endowment Vice President Gene
Cochrane are parents of a recent Davidson graduate and a -
current Davidson student, respectively.

The Duke Endowment was founded on Dec. 11, 1924,
by North Carolina industrialist James Buchanan Duke, cre-
ator of American Tobacco Company and Duke Power Com-

See Duke on page 2

Women’s Resource Center possible

Strong student interest may lead to creation of center

By Carrie ARTHUR
Staff Writer

As the 25th anniversary of women
on Davidson's campus approaches, the
needs of women are being reexamined.
Last Thursday, Tina Kanter, President
of the Rape Awareness Committee, and
Elizabeth Malphurs, Chair of the
Women’s Issues Committee, hosted a
meeting to discuss whether Davidson
needs a Women’s Resource Center.
Along with the gathered students, two
of whom were inale, Associate Profes-
sor of History Sally McMillen, Assis-
tant Professor of Spanish Magdalena
Maiz-Pefia, and Health Educator Geor-
gia Ringle also participated in the dis-
cussion.

Participants expressed a need for
the Center, which was reinforced by the
existence of a Women’s Resource Cen-
ter during 1985-86. Kanter pointed out
that Davidson is one of few schools in

the top 30 liberal arts colleges withouta .

women’s center. In fact, 103 colleges

and universities have women’s centers

that are large enough to have websites.

Kanter said that “most centers opened

‘ due to need by people who wanted to
make an active change.”

The proposal for the 1985-86

women’s center states several uses and
services, many of which are the same
today. Among these uses, the Center
would “help the College community in

understanding the changing roles of.

women and men in today’s society.”
The Center would also exist “to offer a
place in which campus and community
resources could be combined for easy
access.”

Those in attendance also discussed
their individual visions for the Center.
The group quickly emphasized that
while the Center would’ focus on the
specific needs of women, it would be
open to everyone. Students requested
the collection of a network of female
alumni and lists of reliable community
resources, such as doctors and mechan-
ics. As freshman Meredith Beattie sug-
gested, a Women’s Resource Center
would provide a warm place for soli-
darity so that women can “strengthen
ourselves, which would help strengthen
men.” Other students supported her
idea of a noncompetitive environment
where they could spend their free time.

In addition to the data base and
relaxed atmosphere, the group wanted a
library, a computer with internet ac-
cess, a mentorship program with pro-
fessors and older students, a video and

film library, a gallery of women’s art, a
place for reséarch on sexual assault, a
centralized location for the Rape Aware-
ness Committee and the Women’s Is-
sues Committee, and an events. calen-
dar. Some students also suggested hav-
ing people from the Health Center, coun-
selors, and students have office hours,
maybe one hour a week, at the Center.
The group also envisioned small, all-
female support groups that would ben-
efit from a less institutional center.
During the group’s discussion of
the center’s name and of gender, the
group thought about providing a place
for FLAG’s (Friends of Lesbians and
Gays) library in the Center. The group
also discussed the hypothetical idea of
providing a place for FLAG itself. Some
people worried that a Women’s Re-
source Center would swallow FLAG.
Kanter and Malphurs then de-
scribed their two-pronged effort to cre-
ate the Center. Their first goal is to get
space, and then they want a room in the
new Student Union. Although it is in
the hypothetical planning stage, one of
the possible locations would be where
the Residence Life Office’s old offices
were in Belk. Kanter and Malphurs

realized that any space in Belk would be"

for a limited time, and their ultimate

goal is to be in the new Union.

In order to accomplish their goal,’
the group realized that it needs to build
a consensus among students, faculty,
and staff that the Center is needed and
wanted now. The group may do a
survey as well as talk one-on-one with
people. Some support is already evi-
dent in the faculty and staff who came
and in those who expressed interest but
could not attend the meeting. The stu-
dents formed four subcommittees to
work to create the Center: fundraising,
survey/education, research, and pro-
posal. The Women’s Issues Committee
and the Rape Awareness Committee
might also form a board to work for the
center and eventually manage it.

The group then discussed the op-
eration of the Center. Last.time, the
Center was completely student-run.
Now, the group realizes that it will most
likely be student-run in the beginning,
but it hopes eventually to have a staff
member,

Of the need for a Women’s Re-
source Center, Kanter said, “I think the
Women’s Resource Center is very im-
portant for the Davidson campus. I
think that we need to take an active
stance on women’s issues and women’s
rights on campus, especially (with) the

“T think that Davidson is a very demanding school, and some encouragement is good for self-esteem.”

Tony ABBOTT, PROFESSOR OF ENGLISH

campus becoming so aware of sexual

issues with the high attendance at Take
Back the Night and the great response
to the Rape Awareness Committee and
the forming of that committee and the
rest of the Women’s Issues Committee
during Women’s Month. I feel that
there is a huge need for women for an
area where they can do a. bunch of
research, feel comfortable in anoncom-
petitive atmosphere, and just get to re-
sources, databases, a mentorship pro-
gram, and just an area where they can
find support and sit and talk. (They can)
get counseling if that’s what they look
for. If they’re interested in finding jobs
and some older students have found
jobs, (the older students could help).”

EDIFORIALS ..:....6.6660..6 5
IEEE LERS 3i.8aus oes 5
ORARD ei accihidcke 6
ARTS & LIVING ........... 7
SPORTS. Savcscuniece 12
First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

