By RASHEEDAH Hasan AND Hassan Et-AMIN
Guest Writers

On Feb. 3, Wallace D. Mohammed, son of
Elijah Mohammed, an Imam (Muslim religious
leader) of 2.5 million Muslims in America today,
will deliver a public address at Davidson College
entitled “What Islam Has To Say About Race
Relations in America: A Plan for Our Future.”

__ Theaddress, which will be held in Chambers
Gallery at7 p.m., is expected to attract an audience
comprable to the interest shown at other universi-
ties, including Yale.

Imam Mohammed is a world-renowned reli-
gious leader and humanitarian whose works for
the past 23 years have been dedicated to encourag-

ing religious tolerance and establishing under-’

standing and cooperation between Muslims and
people of other religions, in order to achieve a
peaceful coexistence here and in other parts of the
world.

Imam Mohammed, who in 1975 was elected
as leader of the followers of the Honorable Elijah
Mohammed, has also been credited with preserv-
ing the good that his father represented and cor-
recting the misconceptions that the Nation of Is-
lam gave to the religion of Islam.

He was able to guide his followers from the
doctrines of the Nation of Islam to the fundamental
teachings of Islam.

Considered the foremost spokesman for Is-
lam in America, Imam Mohammed encourages
his followers to actively participate and establish
a solid position in the economic, political, social
and educational arena.

It is his promotion of human excellence, his
representatiomof the religion of Islam, and his
contribution toward building respect for Islamic
life in America, that has earned Imam Mohammed

countless awards and unprecedented acknowledg-
ments throughout the globe.

“He is highly respected in all Islamic societ-
ies,” said Muhammad Ali, while Joshua O.
Haberman, Senior Rabbi Emeritus, stated that
“Imam W. Deen Mohammed is one of the most
enlightened religious leaders in the world today.
He played a major role in bringing American
Muslims into the mainstream of religious life in
the U.S., developing good relations between Mus-
lims and Jews in America.”

According to the Oct. 22, 1996 issue of the
Yale Daily News, it was reported that “one of
Mohammed’s broader messages was his universal
view of religion and how it transcended the dis-
tinctions of local concerns and embraced all God-
loving people.” Imam Mohammed himself said
that “Islam is about man as a human being, not
black, not white, not Arab. Islam is a religion of
humanity and unity. It should have a place in this
new world.”

Some of his most recent achievements and
acknowledgments include the following:
° 1996: Imam W. Deen Mohammed and Arch-
bishop William Keeler of Baltimore led a joint
U.S. Bishops conference and American Muslims
in a delegation to the Vatican, where Imam
Mohammed was introduced to Pope John Paul II
by Archbishop Keeler.
e . Early 1995: He was selected as an Interna-
tional President for the World Conference on
Religion and Peace.
* — March 1995: He was the keynote speaker for
Muslims alongside Rabbi Alexander Schindler,
the keynote speaker for Jews in Glencoe, Illinois at
the first Muslim-Jewish Convocation.
¢ December 1994: Imam Mohammed was sa-
luted for his “trailblazing work in improving Mus-
lim, Christian and Jewish relations” by one of
America’s oldest and most revered schools of
theology, the Hartford Seminary, with their high-
est and most distinguished “Cup of Compassion

Award.”
Yates Vf 20,
1993: He was se- °

lected to partici-
pate as the repre-
sentative for the
religion of Islam
in the Inaugural
Inter faith Prayer
Service as part of
the inauguration
activities for

President Bill
Clinton.

° Sept. 10,
1992: He was pre-

sented with the
highest and most
distinguished reli-
gious honor of
Egypt, “The Gold
Medal of Recog-
nition.”

e Feb. 6, 1992:
He became the
first Muslim rep-
resentative to de-
liver an invocation
on the floor of the
United Sates Sen-
ate.

The follow-
ing are quotes that typify the profound insights of
Imam Mohammed on the topics of racism and
community building:

“Race as identity has its life and birth in

human identity. If race identity is to form in the
right way, it must form in human awareness and in
an appreciation for growth in human identity...
“Race as identity corrupts and dooms us, if it
puts itself in our life as an influence more impor-

@ Wallace D. Mohammed will be on campus Feb. 3.

tant to us than human consciousness and human
excellence. Human aim is a sacred matter...

“What is hurting minority communities more
than anything else is that we are not informed
enough and we are not aware of what is going on.
In order for a community of people that’s deficient
or weak to get strong...they have to open commu-
nication lines, not so much with the outside com-
munity, but with themselves.”

Involvement spurred
by the Volunteer Fair

By JENNIFER STARR
Staff Writer

The Volunteer Fair was held last
Tuessday from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in
Chambers. A volunteer fair is held at
the beginning of the Spring and Fall
semesters in order to inform students of
the service opportunities available in
the community.

Tuesday’s fair was attended by
308 students: Approximately 27 com-
munity agencies and 17 Reach Out pro-
grams were represented at the Fair.

Bill Abrams, Davidson service
coordinator, organized the Volunteer
Fair. Abrams said that the Fair is “the
major time each semester when my
office tries to recruit students to work
with community agencies. This is the
best way to get Davidson students to
come out and make decisions about
community service.”

Student attendance at Tuesday’s
fair was higher than at the Fall fair.
Abrams credited increased student in-
volvement in fair publicity with this
change.

Students from the Service Coun-
cil, Reach Out, and the Bonner Scholar
Program assisted in the publicity ef-
forts, which included placing banners
at the entrance to Chambers, having
students with posterboards walk around
campus during the fair, having students
present at the fair, and submitting a

letter to the editor.

At the fair itself, a festive environ-
ment was created by the room decora-
tions and complimentary food.

A total of about 20 to 25 students
assisted in preparation for the Fair.

The outside organizations repre-
sented at the fair were primarily from
Davidson, Mooresville, Cornelius, and
Charlotte. Abrams said, “We are trying
in structured programs to have orienta-
tion, provide-any training needed, and
provide evaluation [at the end of the
volunteer experience].”

According to Abrams, the feed-
back from the agency representatives
who attended the fair was positive.

Some of. the programs outside of

the Town of Davidson recruited fewer -

volunteers than those located in David-
son.

In Abrams’s opinion, this may be
because some students.are unwilling or
unable to drive to Charlotte or outside
the immediate Davidson area. Abrams
hopes the Volunteer Fair encouraged
students to become more involved in
the community.

“Ideally students come in and the
organizations find at least a few stu-
dents who are willing to take a large
role,” said Abrams. “Students need to
be challenged and want to be chal-
lenged. This is a good opportunity for
students to learn lessons which can’t be
learned in class.”

~ Internship Fair offers
students wealth of posssibilities

By MICHAEL GiLLESPIE

Asststant News Editor

Last Thursday night, students
gathered in the Union hoping to find
an occupation for this summer. The
Internship Fair opened some students’
eyes to the possibilities for service
projects, and opened others’ to the
possibility of travel.

Most importantly, however, it
was a reminder that summer is ap-
proaching all too quickly, and that
many of the deadlines for these oppor-
tunities are now less than a month
away.

Ruth Pittard emphasized to the
students present that it was important
to get any applications submitted as
soon as possible.

There were several programs that
were highlighted at the meeting:

¢ The Bonner Scholar Commu-
nity Fund was created to fund commu-
nity service projects by Davidson stu-
dents. This money is available to the
entire student body, but is only meant
to cover the start up costs of acommu-
nity service project. Applications for
funding are due by Jan. 30.

* The ACES Internship Fund
was established to enrich the academic
life and assist the career guidance of
minority students. It can provide for
internships and. research as well as
travel and study abroad programs, The
contact person for this project is Kim-
berly Wright (x2010). The applica-

tions for this program become available
Jan. 28 and must be in by Feb. 25.

¢ The Class of ‘89 Internship is a
unique program run by the Coordinator
of Community Service. This program
gives ohe or more students the opportu-
nity to construct a personally designed
service project and actualize it. The
application process for this program
begins early in Spring Semester.

¢ The Duke Endowment Intern-
ship Fund provides two paid intern-
ships for one male and one female ris-
ing junior or senior. It runs during the
summer from June | to Aug. 1, includes
housing on Davidson campus, and of-
fers areasonable stipend. The applica-
tions are mailed out by the Dean of
Student’ s office and must be completed
by Feb. 2. °

¢ The Love of Learning Intern-
ships involve being a mentor-counselor
for 9th- to 11th-graders for four weeks
here on Davidson campus during the
summer. The program runs from June
22nd to July 25 and also has a small
stipend. For more information call
Brenda Tapia at x2452. The applica-
tion can be gotten at any time, but is due
Jan. 30 at 5 p.m.

° The Parker Service Project Fund
also supports projects by the Davidson
students for community service work.
Applications are available and can be
turned in anytime. Ruth Pittard is in
charge of this program. There are,
however, limited funds, so applications
should be completed soon.

- Charlotte area by providing stipends

¢ The Dean Rusk Grant Fund
provides funds for student study, ser-
vice, and learning in other countries.
These grants are awarded for merit,
but need is also considered. The appli-
cation requires a definite project plan.
These plans should be well-researched,
include significant cultural exposure,
and propose a reasonable budget. Ap-
plications are available in the Dean
Rusk office in the Carolina Inn. Sum-
mer and Fall project proposals should
be turned in by Mar? 18.

* The Stanley Stipend is intended
as financial assistance only for-stu-
dents undertaking short term volun-
teer work that is directly tied to their
Christian faith. Students can recieve
the stipend for participation in self-
designed or organized projects. These
applications will be due Apr. 1.

* The Stapletori/Davidson Urban
Service Internship Fund helps David-
son students to become involved in the

for summers service projects. Intern-
ships are available with social services
or church related projects, and are
meant to emphasize inner-city involve-
ment and projects. Applications are
available but are due Feb. 6.

* Robert T. Stone Internship is
provided for students who wish to pur-
sue internships with the commnity or
focusing on the environment. The
grants can be applied for at anyime.
Ruth Pittard is also the person to con-
tact for this program.

COME PLAY Witu Us.

Cat Ranpy (x6667) oR SARAH (x6508).

HELP WANTED

Be a business success before you graduate.
Avon needs savvy sales. reps.

HELP WANTED

Men/ Women earn $375 weekly processing/
assembling Medical I.D. Cards at home. Immedi-
: ate openings, your local area.

Call Medicard 1-541-386-5290 Ext. 118M

Experience unnecessary, will train.

Call Gloria 609-871-0542

