Baer speaks on Latin-American economic ct

By Brian Cooke
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, the Dean Rusk Program and
the Department of Economics sponsored Dr.
Werner Baer’s lecture, entitled “A Comparative
Perspective: The Latin-American Crisis of the
*80s vs. The Asian Crisis of the ’90s.” Dr. Baer is
currently a professor of economics at the Univer-
sity of Illinois. He has been invited to speak at
such universities as Harvard, Yale, and Vanderbilt.
Dr. Baer is also the author of many books includ-.
ing, “The Brazilian Economy” and “Privatization
in Latin-America.” An even finer achievement,
the Brazilian government presented him with the
order of the Southern Cross — the highest honor
awarded to a foreigner.

The purpose of Baer’s lecture was to give his
audience of about 50 students and faculty mem-
bers a general background of the Latin-American
crisis and of the Asian crisis. Admitting to “gen-
eralizing like mad” due to the 30-minute time limit
to speak, Baer flew through the two histories but
received the full attention of the audience. More
importantly, Baer presented “challenging hypoth-
eses for (us) to challenge in the future.”

Baer described the Latin-American crisis as
an economy with high rates of inflation, low

savings, and big government. They closed their
economies to attract foreign capital and created
many incentives to attract foreign currency. Al-
though this brought down the import coefficient
and many years of growth followed, it was.an
inefficient system, stated Baer. Industries were
substituted on.mass scales, and exports were to-
tally ignored.

From the 1960s to mid 1970s, Latin-America
attempted to correct this problem by diversifying
exports.

Baer noted that Brazil was one of-the few
countries successful with this. The quadrupling of
oil prices in the ’70s led to debt-led growth, and as
“interest rates of the world went through the roof,”
Latin-America declared bankruptcy in the early
1980s. Baer remarked that this period of stagna-
tion is commonly recognized as the “Loss De-
cade.” There was a decline in investment in Latin-
America, and the country continued to overbor-
row. This led to hyperinflation in Argentina,
Brazil, and Mexico.

Severe stabilization programs were neces-
sary to mollify the crisis. Latin-American coun-

tries were able to comb loans from financial pro-.

grams across the world only on the condition that
they adapted “Neoliberal” policies. These poli-
cies forced the government to retreat, cut

x

privatization, and opened their economies. Now,
most Latin-American countries have decreased
inflation and stable economies.

Baer then introduced the Asian crisis as “much
too complex” to explain in the remaining time.

Until 1996, East Asian economies had high
growth rates. These economies were tight to the
dollar, and when the dollar began to float, trade
defects resulted. East Asian countries had to
borrow a lot of money from banks with high
interest rates. .

As Baer argued, “These economies were not
what one assumed them to be.” Before the crisis,
the Asian economic state was praised over the
“wasteful Latin-Americans,” whose public utili-
ties were in the hands of the state, had high
unemployment, and whose state was practically
omnipresent. East Asia, however, was believed to
have a small state. This was false, because it was
shown that the East Asian government actually did
have their hands on the economy through private
circles.

It was also thought that the East Asian rate of
investment (30 percent of GDP) was better than
the “frugal” investment of Latin America. This
was later argued against when the quality and
productivity of those investments were questioned.
For example, East Asia was no better off than

Bese Tae aor

Latin America concerning labor laws, because it is
almost impossible to fire experienced workers.
Baer cited this as one example of unproductivity.

The image of East Asian economies falter
because their “legal system is inadequate,” Baer
stated. Even in Japan, there is corruption and
scandals.
economies are not really as open to foreign invest-
ment as once perceived.

Last, it was believed that Asia had a more
equitable income distribution than Latin America,
but Baer felt that this should be reexamined. In
East Asia, the economic power is in a few hands,
so he felt that income could not be equally distrib-
uted. ‘

Baer concluded his lecture by asking, “What

-are the great challenges in Latin-America?” He

felt that although the obvious answer is to open
themselves to foreign investment and privatizing,
the solution lies in income distribution. The main
question for East Asia was, “How do they open up
their economies and get rid of the hidden hand of
the government?”

Challenging the audience to challenge him,
Baer then answered an array of questions. Baer
was forced to clarify some points and defend his
arguments. Twice, he even modestly admitted
ignorance. _

Bond speaks to race concerns

Julian Bond from page 1

that racial division is the plight of the time.

Bond extended the “second reconstruction”
inspired by Dubois from the slaveocracy into
tomorrow. Bond countered lingering doubt of the
NAACP’s relevancy in the aftermath of President
Johnson’s Great Society by pronouncing the “birth
of anew century and the death of an old one.” The
“new transcendent generation” faces a “cotton
curtain” masked by names suchas Proposition 209
and Affirmative Action and a continuing social
stigma that stagnates the “movement for eco-
nomic and political power” that is the next logical
step for minorities in America.

Bond called for a re-
evaluation of history that saw
beyond the figureheads and
grainy black-and-white
broadcast speeches from the
capitol to the silent majority
of supporters in Montgom- ,
ery, Ala., and Greensboro,
N.C., without whom legal
barriers would not have been
vaulted by black Americans.
With this historical reap-
praisal, Bond hoped that
Americans would recognize
the “indictment of ourtimes,”
the economic: shadow en-
shrouding black America.
Citing an excess of statistics,
Bond pitied the “colorblind
America that never was” that
has seen the reversal of the
Great Society executed by
“right wing locusts.”

This reversal is evident,
Bond claimed, in programs such as Affirmative
Action, which has come under attack recently but

which is a program vastly misunderstood by .

America. Despite a drop in employment of blacks
from 75 percent to 57 percent in 30 years, Affirma-
tive Action has created a strong black middle class
that now comprises one-third of blacks in America.
An ignorant America which perceived minority
population at 71 percent and the “‘ancient faces of
evil portrayed in Newt faces” construe Affirma-
tive Action as a program which gives preferential
treatment to Blacks in the workplace. Bond as-
serted that the program “attacks ancient white skin
tradition” in the workplace rather than demeaning
blacks through preferential treatment. Affirma-
tive Action seeks to restructure an “economy based
on race division” which, as Bond claimed, was
responsible for the increase of intraracial crime.
Recent black hostility only masks the esca-
lating social stigma that has pitted blacks against

whites in a battle of interpretation. Since the -

Kerner Commission under Johnson’s administra-
tion aeknowledged that white racism was the single
~ Most important cause for discrimination in all

@ Julian Bond

areas, social trends have classified whites as vic-

.tims. Bond cited American opinion polls that

demonstrated that minorities are perceived as less
than human beings by Americans. These trends,
evidenced recently by white arson on African
American churches in the South, certainly jarred
the minds of the strong community showing
Wednesday night.

A community member representing North
Carolina Representative Mel Watt asked Bond
where he stood on the recent demand from Con-
gress that North Carolina redraw the controversial
12th District, claiming it favored black voters.
Bond attested the need for such districts because of
the discriminatory shadow that an increasingly

hostile society has cast over
the new transcendent gen-
eration. He stated simply
that color elects color, sadly
enough, and that districts are
the only venue by which the
80 percent white domination
of Congress can be allevi-
ated.

Bond ended by re-
membering his grandfather,
who, in 1896, called for
“greater efforts and grander
victories.” After a standing
ovation, Bond accepted ques-
tions, not personal speeches,

' from the ‘audience. In the
open discussion portion, is-
sues that hit home at
Davidson were brought be-
fore Bond.

A strong student
delegation representing As-
sistant Professor of History

Barbara Ballard was present brandishing signs
demanding the Board of Trustees to grant Ballard
tenure as well as distributing petitions among the
audience. A student stood to acknowledge Ballard
and asked what, amidst all of Bond’s historical
reevaluation, could a student do to prevent what
was implied as discrimination such as seen with
Ballard. Bond replied in a reserved tone that
students must demand diversity in education from
their universities. It was seemingly left to the
students that Ballard represented the diversity
which Bond demanded.

Bond left much to the students, faculty, and

community members present Wednesday night. .

He left them with the knowledge that the same
problem that W.E.B Dubois christened his organi-
zation to fight, the color line, is still the problem
facing society today. Bond pitied those who did

not sense the lingering discrimination facing dll

minorities, and urged minds of action to subscribe
to the silent majority hiding behind the speeches
and rallies. Bond left his own “pearls of wisdom”

behind ‘when he left the stage, enough for all to
share. ;

Press RELEASE
College Relations

Davidson alumnus Charles Wright ‘57 has
won the 1998 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry

The Pulitzer Prize Foundation announced
on Tuesday afternoon, Apr. 14, that itis honoring
Wright “for a distinguished volume of original
verse by an American author,” citing his most
recent book, “Black Zodiac,” published by Farrar,
Straus and Giroux. The book earlier this year
won the National Book Critics Circle Award.

Wright responded to

| the honor by saying, “It’s

not what one writes for, but
if it happens, it’s terrific.
When we're sailing around
in our little boats on the
ocean of language looking
for landfalls, prizes like this
are the desert islands.”

Wright currently
teaches creative writing as
the Souder Family Profes-
sor of English and poet-in-
residence at the University
of Virginia. “Black Zodiac”
is, his most recent contribu- _
tion to the literary world,
following 11 other books of
poems, six chapbooks, and
four translations.

Davidson College
honored Wright with an
honorary Doctor of Letters
degree in Spring 1997, and
he has received numerous major awards for his
poetry. They include the National Book Award
in poetry (for “Country Music: Selected Early
Poems” in 1983), an Award of Merit Medal from
the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and,
in 1993, the prestigious Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize
honoring lifetime achievements in poetry. He
was.elected to the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences in 1995. His collection
“Chickamauga” was chosen to receive the 1996
Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize, an annual $10,000
award for the most outstanding book of poetry
published in the United States in the previous
year.

“Poetry fulfills a spiritual need, the need to
explain to myself what it is I would like to
happen,” Wright said in the Fall 1993 edition of
The, Davidson Journal.

Davidson alumnus wins
Pulitzer Prize in poetry

@ Charles Wright

The central themes of his poetry are lan-
guage, landscape, the idea of God, the weight of
the past, and the weight of the future. He says his
inspiration to write comes from fear — “fear that
I won’t get it said, that I won’t figure it out,” he
said. ’
When asked what he hopes to accomplish
with poetry, he replied, “To be saved, butit won’t
happen. Poetry won’t do it, but it’s the closest
thing I have.”

Wright was a history major at Davidson and
won the Vereen Bell Prize for writing his senior

year for a group of prose
pieces entitled “Death and
These Three.” He didn’t
start writing poetry until
two years after his
Davidson graduation, when
he began reading the po-
etry of Ezra Pound while
serving in the Army Intelli-
gence Service in Verona,
Italy.
After his Army
tour, he studied at the Uni-
» versity of Rome and at-
tended the lowa Writers’
Workshop. He has since
taught as a visiting profes-
sor at the University. of
Iowa, Columbia Univer-
sity, Princeton University,
and the Universita delgi
Studi in Florence, Italy. He
joined the faculty atthe Uni-
versity of Virginia in.1983.

The Pulitzer Prizes are annual. awards for
achievements in American journalism, letters,
drama, and music. The prizes have been awarded
by Columbia University since 1917, on the rec-
ommendation of a Pulitzer Prize Board. Four-
teen prizes are given in journalism. The prizes in
letters are for fiction, history, poetry, biography
or autobiography, and general nonfiction. There
are also prizes for drama and music. A gold
medal is awarded for public service in journal-
ism, while the other categories are accompanied
by a $5,000 award paid from Pulitzer endow-
ments.

The awards are named for 19th century
American newspaper publisher Joseph Pulitzer.
He endowed what is now the Graduate School of
Journalism at Columbia University and the
Pulitzer Prizes.

Eco-FAactT:
Each year, Americans throw away enough wood and paper to heat five million
homes for 200 years. (source: GDS, inc.)
REMEMBER, THURSDAY IS EartH Day!

Furthermore, we now see that their ~
