THE DAVIDSONIAN

» TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 1998

Cone talks on King, Malcolm X

Cone Lecture from page 1

King and Malcolm X, and explained their ap-
proaches to the common goal of respect and
recognition of black people as human beings.
While Martin King’s spoke to black Christians in
the rural Jim Crowe South, Malcolm X found his
followers ina dissatisfied and “ghettoized” North-
ern black community that felt alienated or indif-
ferent to Christianity.

Malcolm X approached the goal of freedom
by demanding respect for African culture and
stressing the importance of a strong cultural iden-
tity. Malcolm X derived his power “not from
Christianity; but from the heritage that white
America had taught him to hate.”

Martin King chose to work through the legal
system, gaining legal rights for black Americans
and ending legal segregation. “Martin King gal-
vanized Southern blacks to take a stand for jus-
tice,” said Cone, “ and inspired ordinary blacks to
believe in themselves as human beings and de-
mand that the law recognize their humanity.”

Likewise, Malcolm X became the Daniel for
his Northern admirers, “a hot and angry and
eloquently persuasive prophet,” who empowered
them to beliéve in themselves and “walk the
streets with dignity.” ,

Martin King and Malcolm X’s differing
approaches could be attributed to geography. In
King’s case, a white-controlled government and
justice system made non-violent protests the only
viable option.

According’to Cone, “King knew that vio-
lence in the South would have given whites to kill
law-abiding blacks.” Meanwhile, Malcolm X’s
bold statements and protests exposed what Cone
described as “Northern white liberal hypocrisy.”

Thursday night, Cone turned the attention to
the impact of both civil rights leaders on black

@ Cone

theology. “Martin King gave black theology its

* Christian identity,” said Cone, “ and Malcolm X
gave black theology its black identity.” Martin
King “did theology with his life, proclaimed it
through his preaching, and forced white Chris-
tians to confront their own beliefs.”

For these actions, as well as his international
stature and courage, Cone argued that Martin
King was “the most important and influential
Christian theologian in United States history.”
Cone sees Martin King as “‘an activist theologian”
and stated that one “can’t be a Christian without
fighting for justice among people.”

Malcolm X, according to Cone, is “America’s
most profound race critic.”” When Cone turned to
Malcolm X in the late 1960's, he found the “iden-
tity of black Americans is inexorably linked to
blackness” and knew he had to understand his
heritage as a black American.

“Both Martin and Malcolm,” Cone said, “chal-
lenged me to think about black truth and Chris-
tianity.”

Speaking on his visit to Davidson, Cone said,
“T really do mean it when I say that I am pleased
to have come here to Davidson, especially to meet
the students I have met. . .they have inspired me
and deepened and reinforced my commitment.”

Students were also appreciative to have Dr.
Cone, spending well over thirty minutes each
night asking him questions and purchasing his
books.

Cone’s presentation was part of the Otts
Lecture Series. In 1893, J.M.P. Otts,D.D.,LL.D., ’
a distinguished alumnus of Davidson, donated a
sum of money to the college to bring speakers
with an expertise in Religious Studies.

The Department of Religion hosts Otts Lec-
tures every other year, encompassing the broad
spectrum of Religious Studies.

CALL TOLL FREE 1-877-NQ-FEE-4U TO APPLY.

(not in credit cards)

Introducing the New American
Express’ Credit Card for Students.
Live for today.

Build for tomorrow.

The New American Express Credit
Card for Students is a resource you
can depend on. With benefits like big
airfare savings, free credit information,
and no annual fee, it'll help you get the
most from your student years — and
help you build a solid financial
foundation for the future.

