8 THE DAVIDSONIAN TUESDAY, JANUARY 27, 1998

Conference on Careers in International Business
UNC-Charlotte
Monday, February 23

@ Speakers will discuss preparing for an international business career, networking
for jobs and internships, and the realities of the international marketplace.

@ Sessions will be held on Banking, Logistics & Transportation, Employment in
Foreign-owned Companies, Finance & Accounting, Marketing & Export Sales,
and Government & Nonprofit Organizations. |

Plenty of time will be available to meet and network with the speakers.

The Premanagement Committee will underwrite the registration fee
(which includes lunch) for a limited number of students on a first-
come, first-served basis. We encourage underclassmen to attend.

@ Register at the Davidson College Office of Career Services by 5:00
p.m., Wednesday, February 4.

Please consider taking advantage of this great opportunity’

ba

A Message for
Sophomores

As you know, Davidson requires that you declare a major before the
beginning of your junior year. If you’re not sure about what to do next,
or if you’ re looking for a different challenge, why not consider designing
your own major through the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies (CIS)?
This year more than thirty students are working in fields like creative
writing, comparative literature, east Asian economy, environmental
studies, linguistics, medial ethics, medieval studies, neuroscience, the-
ater history.®...

sa

Save up to 75%
now on >

selected merchandise

=| The Village Store

Bhd osm ad aig
Gam om Acomscans Fon st Yas

is 2

If. any of these sounds-great to you, or if you'd like to build a major
that’s yours alone, please call Prof. Manning at 892-2385, to set up an
appointment to explore possibilities.

Why not major in something you love?

hd.

1998 DAVIDSON AMBASSADORS

Please join the Office of Admission and Financial Aid in congratulating the 1998 Davidson Ambassadors. These volunteers have been charged with the responsibil-
ity of leading campus tours and serving as liaisons between current students and prospectives. We truly appreciate their efforts and invaluable commitment.

Erin Fitzgerald Jennie Hillmann Jesse Smallwood Pete Thompson
Terrence Gairy Kelly Carter Andrew Griswold Megan O’Brien
Campbell. Goodloe Julie Chevalier Travis Harp Ed O'Bryan
Jon Adler Kate Christensen Matthew Hazlett Mike Orlando
Towles Allison Drew Crawford Daniel Hodge Zaidee Rose
Zhenya Arutyunyan Dan Creekman Liz Holt Jay Scanlan

Brooke Bagwell Beth Dewitt Magaret Hoover Gina Strangis
Debbi Berry Matt Ellis Hunter Hopkins Julie Summersgill
Will Bradshaw - Dane Erickson Lindsay Hughes Aaron Sundstrom
Mike Brady Rosalie Esteves Matthew Jung Tori Talbot
Christopher Brantley Kate Feldmeier Jeff Kessler Kristen Taylor
Ashley Brown Maggie Ferris Re Craig Laws John Thompson
Daniel Cantey Jake Fischer Reid Leavitt Drew Waddell
Jennifer Carlyle Angela Fisher Lindsay Meyers Brent Wilson
Whitney Frazier Rives Moore

In addition, many thanks to those who have helped in years past, particularly the 1997 coordinators, Russell Bailey, Katherine Davis and Kate Stevens, and the
outgoing seniors who will leave us in the Spring. Their work has changed the face of our campus visit program immeasureably. Best wishes next year!

