THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Wes.ey H. GoLpsBERRY
Arts & Living Editor

The arts at Davidson have enjoyed
a healthy welfare climb over the past
several years. The college symphony
was revived in Fall1994 after an infa-
mous 40-year hiatus. The Davidson
College Chamber Singers were.as-
sembled in their current form in the
spring of that same academic year. The
theatre department has been sponsoring
dramatic productions of all sorts for
years.

Spring 1997 saw a historic joint
effort put forth by the DC Symphony
Orchestra and Concert Choir, as they
gave two performances of Mozart’s
Requiem. Only a cooperative effort
between the music and theatre depart-
ments could prove a greater triumph.

And sure enough, the worlds of
acting, vocal, and instrumental music
collided in Love Auditorium this week-
end, culminating in the. largest-scale

_ artistic production that this fair college
has ever seen. A bold statement, yes,
but a reasonably safe one.. “Truly, a
sight to behold,” spoke one bystander.

Although “Madness Rules: the
Hour” just arrived last weekend, this
quasiopera had been four years in the
making. It was the brainchild of Dr.
Rupert.T. Barber, Jr., professor of the-
atre and speech, a dramatic interpreta-
tion of events surrounding the French

Revolution, inspired by journals, mem-
oirs, and letters from the period, as well
as Thomas Carlyle’s “The French Revo-
lution.” Barber himself authored the
libretto, while Dr. Richard Prior com-
posed the score, written for full choir,
orchestra, and voice soloists.

Over 200 Davidson students par-
ticipated in the production, most of
whom served as part of the orchestra,
the choir, or the starving angry rabble
on stage. The two vocal soloists were
Dr. Dan Boye, portraying King Louis
XVI, and sophomore Kate Scibal, who
played Marie Antoinette.

A healthy host of Davidson stu-
dents, faculty, and alumni were on hand
in Love Auditorium to witness Friday’s
premiere. Shortly after 8:00 p.m. that
evening, Dr. Prior’s gallant baton led
the chorus and orchestra in a harrowing,
raucous evocation of the opera’s open-
ing phrase, “France is breaking apart.”
Prior’s prologue featured some stellar
word-painting.

Soloists Dr. Boye and Scibal took
the stage shortly thereafter. Both solo-
ists did anexemplary job, as their voices
carried over the powerful orchestra to
fill the venue’s entirety. Boye, a phys-
ics professor, sported a particularly im-
pressive set of pipes.

The remainder of the cast was pre-
dominantly comprised of students from
Theater 101, 121, and 221. The axe-
wielding, bread-deprived Versaillesian

“Madness Rules the Hour” makes world debut

“Collage of words and music” a landmark venture

masses filled the stage to the left and
right of the broad staircase which served
as the set’s centerpiece.

Despite the amateur status of most
thespians involved, the production fea-
tured some commendable acting from
several students. The most memorable
monologue was that delivered by se-
nior Jose Ruiz as DeSéze, the lawyer
for the accused king. His thunderous
speech left the audience shuddering in
their seats. Principal narrators for the
play included Iva Taylor, Phil Finch,
and Chase Bringardner.

Because both the Concert Choir
and Symphony Orchestra were still in
the wake of their major spring perfor-
mances, rehearsal time for “Madness”
was scant. This considered, the quality
with which the opera was pulled off is
even more impressive.

The final product represented an
immense commitment from Drs. Prior
and Barber and all musicians and actors
involved.

Saturday’s performance of the 80-
minute work was also quite well-re-
ceived. “Madness Rules the Hour”
should be appreciated for what it was —
exclusively conceived, produced, and
performed Davidson professors and stu-
dents, and done well.

This mammoth endeavor should
long be remembered. Thus, the per-
forming arts departments stand proud,
as well they should.

Bk

By ‘Chantilly Lace and A Pretty Face

for the week of April 28, 1998

Congratulations, you have made it to week (# of
‘times you slept through your first class) of the semester!! As
exams loom on the horizon, you are feeling (how
your stomach was feeling at 3:00 a.m. last Saturday morn-
ing) about the status of your GPA. To calculate your current
GPA, use this (adjective) chart:

Days of the week that you got to class:
Plus pieces of mail received this week:
’ Minus your # of encounters with Peach Melba:
Divide by your mama’s age:
Add number of Bonus Bucks you haven't scarfed down:

This is your current GPA, (your sign).

Some study tips:

Aries does it with his horns.

Taurus always does it in red.

Gemini always does it with a partner.
Cancer: Just do it!

Leo also does it with pride.

Virgo: Do what?

Libra always gets caught in the carrel.
Scorpio does it for life.

Saggitarius does it best on the IMAC fields.
Capricorn does it best in an unlocked room in Chambers.
Aquarius and Pisces do it underwater.

Foop SERVICES
Prep Cooks
HOsTESss
SAUTEE

Come work for us this
summer at the Lake!

Carraba’s Italian Grill, Outback
Steakhouses Inc. newest concept is
now hiring for all positions in its
newest location in Huntersville.

Apply in person Mon. - Friday 2-6 Saturday 12-4
at 16408 North Cross Drive.

West on Sam Furr Rd. (Exit #25). Behind new
Mariott Courtyard across from Pinnacle Apartments

BARTENDERS Frances Ullmer, Lt. Governor of Alaska
Gril 4:30 P.M. - 5:45 P.M. |
Bus Boys

Picicuicccas Chambers Gallery

EVER WONDER WHAT ROADKILI

LOOKS

LIKE ON THE INFORMATION HIGHWAY?

Come hear LEADERS of business, government, and industry
’ speak on the role technology is playing in their field,
and what it means to YOU.

fF FRIDAY, MAY 1

2:00 - 3:00 P.M.
“Biotechnology” -' Hodson Hall
Richard Brubaker, Medical Director, Mayo Medical Ventures

“Banking and Technology” - Perkins Auditorium
Rod Bosscawen, Sr., Vice President, Technology Services, NationsBank

3:15 P.M. 4:15 P.M.
“Media and Technology”- Hodson Hall
Ervin Duggan, President and CEO, PBS

“Technology and The Public Sector”- Perkins Auditorium

It used to be called a “roundtable discussion”. Now it’s a
“chat room”. Come hear all of the day’s speakers, including
John McCartney, former President of US Robotics.

POSTER SESSION - CLINICAL RESEARCH METHODS

Results of campus wide survey of mental health and psychological functioning
on display Tuesday, May 5 from 2:30 to 5:00 p.m. in the Morrison Room.

Winning Raffle Numbers: 638158, 638670, 638760

