THE DAVIDSONIAN.

- Losing faith

Over the past few weeks in The Davidsonian, I have noticed an unnerving trend in the Op-Ed

section. While the number of articles related to theme-living have been on the rise, there has also been
aperiodic influx of articles related to our school’s cherished Honor Code and the deterioration of the faith
that certain students have in it.

While I am sure that articles concerning a lack of faith in the Honor Code came in during the Kruse
Era of The Davidsonian and during the many administrations prior, my experience with such articles
didn’t begin until our Feb. 10 issue was printed. In this issue, Liz Neiheisel, a devoted member of The
Davidsonian’s Editorial Board, wrote, “Check your milk cartons: Have you seen Bob?” in her regular
“Freshman Philosophy” column.

In the article, Liz shared with our readers the story of her stolen laptop, Bob, and the pain and strife
that it caused’her. While it went as far as trying to determine the necessity of taking the laptop, it also
discussed the possibility that if prompted, Liz would have helped someone who was in need of a small
financial boost due to some crisis of their own. Although Liz tried to establish the perpetrator as a member .
from outside the Davidson community, the fact that it could have been from within our “family” caused
her some uneasiness in the her belief in the strength of our Code. As she put it, “The knowledge that an
individual from outside the school may very well have been involved in the incident makes me hope that ,
the Honor Code and Code of Responsibility do still serve their purpose. But I don’t know for sure.”

. Whereas Liz shared her slight loss of faith in the Honor Code through the story of her lost computer,
Eric Sapp, the most recent addition to the group of writers who have lost some faith in the Honor Code
(Mar. 17, “Is this the death of our honor?”), stressed his concerns that the administration had lost its faith
in the Honor Code.

In his opinion piece, Eric tried to demonstrate how the administration has lost their faith in the Honor
Code by not allowing students to use someone else’ s CAT Card to purchase items in the Union Café. After
a series of inconclusive quips concerning the truthfulness of students in our society today, Eric finished
his article with a plethora of activities that he witnessed in which the ideals of the Honor Code are still
strong, trying to show that the students still have faith in the Code.

While I disagree with Eric on the far-flung notion that our administration has lost faith in the Honor
Code of Davidson, I do have to agree with him in that the vast majority of students still believe in the Honor
Code. And in the best sense of trying to support this viewpoint, I have attempted to collect a series brief
incidences/observations wherein the Honor Code has been proven to still be respected and believed by
all parties involved, student, staff, or faculty.

I don’t lock the door to my room. My friends don’t lock their doors. Heck, the only doors I know
are locked here on campus are those that are protected with CAT Card scanners. Why? Because everyone
has a sense of security, knowing that other students on this campus are honor-bound not to steal.

When I took my first review here at Davidson last semester, I have to admit that I was not able to
comprehend how my professor could vacate the room in the middle of a test. For years I had taken tests
that were proctored, where if the teacher had to leave for any reason, a replacement proctor was tracked
down and brought in to‘supervise.

The ability that my teacher exercised on that review day was the first time I actually witnessed the
Honor Code in action. For while we were taking a test that reviewed the bulk of calculus, our teacher was
back in his office correcting papers, drinking coffee, or catching up on various administrative duties.

Finally, where else in this world is a quarter on the ground ignored with such vigor as it is here at
Davidson? Almost every other day, I’ll walk to Chambers or to Vail and on the ground I’ll see a shiny,
new quarter sitting on the sidewalk, I know that that quarter will never be picked up — not unless, that
is, the original owner is the one to retrieve it. ;

I think we need to admit that a big part of the Honor Code here on campus is trust. I trust that the
Honor Code is working every moment of every day. I trust that every student, staff, and faculty member
on this campus follows the Honor Code. While Eric Sapp seems to think that the administration believes
students can’t be trusted, I think it believes that we can. Why else would the Honor Code be enforced
to such an extent? Why else would they allow us to take exams by ourselves?

While nothing in society can be perfect (and often there are times when members of our community
veer from the followings of the Honor Code), we can’t lose our faith in it. It is a system that has lasted
for a number of years. It seems to be easily accepted by everyone who attends Davidson, and if someone
has trouble with the way it is stated, they can try to amend it or redefine it (see the Letter to the Editors
from Joslyn Ogden). oS

Davidson without an Honor Code is like a lake without water. There isn’t much point in calling a
big hole in the ground a lake unless there is water in it. Likewise, there isn’t much point in calling a group
of buildings Davidson unless there is an Honor Code that exists within it. You can’t have one without

The Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
SARAH OGDEN
RANDY SKATTUM
News Editor Sports Editors Photo Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL BRATTON HOLMES SALLIE McMURRAY
: BRIAN MAYERHOFER
Arts & Living Editor Business Manager
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY Sports Layout Editor CHLOE BROOKE
WILLIAM MORETZ
Op-Ed Editor ; Circulation Manager
ERIN McKINLEY * Advertising Managers MERRITT ABNEY
MICHELLE BOUGDANOS
Copy Editors DAVID JOHNSTON Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE SCOTT REEDER ANNA ERICKSSON
CINDY CLARK

, LYNSAY MADLEY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Babidsonian on the Internet at
hitp://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

TUESDAY, MARCH 24, 1998

Subverting the cause |

The Women’s Issues Committee has declared March Women’s Month at Davidson.
Women’s Month: four weeks of support, of girl bonding, of awarenessraising activities,
of celebrating female-ness. What could be better than recognizing the gender that is still,
in the late 20th century, underpaid and underappreciated?

I don’t know about you, but despite its sunny exterior, I have some problems with this
whole Women’s Month concept. Trite though it may sound, I think that every day should
be women’s day. We should raise awareness and fight for ourselves all the time, not just
during one month out of the year.

I understand the thinking behind Women’s Month, though. Since we Davidson
students spend much of our time studying or procrastinating, we may feel.as though we
don’t have time to participate in activities that are held during “regular” weeks. In order
to spur attendance, the Committee has chosen to emphasize the importance of these events
by compiling them into a period of time that students will label as special: hence, Women’s
Month. If the activities presented seem like a limited-time offer (like that McDonald’s rib
sandwich that comes out every five years or so), we are more likely to take part in it —
because we may not have another chance.

This line of reasoning doesn’t hold for events such as Take Back the Night, which are
famous (infamous?) enough on their own to draw acrowd. Activities that could be labelled
mundane, however, such as sexual esteem workshops and carrepair seminars, need the
extra boost that a special month gives them. (Associating these activities with Take Back
the Night doesn’t hurt, either, I’m sure.) .

This special emphasis, this labelling, has a downside, though. When the month is
over, what will happen to the attention that is-currently being paid to women’s issues?
Students will reabsorb themselves in their daily routines, and we will be right back where
we started from until next March rolls around.

Another concern is that Women’s Month revolves around women’s issues to the point
that it excludes men. Several males have told me that they were interested in attending
some of the workshops and seminars and even Take Back the Night, but they were afraid
that they would not be welcome. Last week, The Davidsonian even had a reporter
summarily expelled from a course he was assigned to cover simply on the basis of his
gender. (On this, I understand the reasoning but not the principle. How can we hope to
educate men about women’s issues if we won’t let them into our lives and our fears far
enough for them to care?) .

We need mento help us fight the battle for awareness, for safety, for equality. Despite
their being of the opposite gender (and yes, perhaps even potential rapists), males are not
the enemy. They are a sort of majority, though, which arguably places them in a stronger
position in society. We can sway the majority in our favor, though, by socializing our
conflict to this audience. In seeking aid from a powerful source — other members of
society — we can only make the women’s issues cause stronger. ‘

None of this is to say, however, that I am opposed to the activities that comprise
Women’s Month. I’m all for Take Back the Night, learning to defend myself and how to
change atire, working toward sexual esteem. The events of Women’s Month are all good,
healthy ways to improve our standings in society and within ourselves. It’s the method

ren ke yin

@ LETTERS TO THE EDITORS #
Take Back the Night successful

To the Davidson Community:

On behalf of the Women’s Issues Committee, I would like to thank you for your overwhelming

support of this year’s Take Back the Night. I would also like to publicly thank the strong women who

shared their stories and Hallie Pitkin and Christina Biedermann, who organized this event.

To those who had to wait outside the 900 Room due to occupancy limitations, I apologize and
promise that we will work to correct that situation next year.

Take Back the Night is a very important event because it both empowers speakers and raises
awareness about sexual assault on campus. Again, thanks for your support.

Elisabeth Malphurs ‘99
Chair of the Women’s Issues Committee

Students turned away from Take Back the Night
To the Editors:

Tonight, Mar. 19, we should be attending an extremely important event here at Davidson College,
but instead of hearing the brave testimonies of other students in Take Back the Night, we were turned
away at the door. We understand the safety and fire regulations of the Union: however, the popularity
of this event demands a facility that can accommodate all those students with interest. Take Back the
Night is an incredible event which addresses an issue vital to us all. It deals with a problem that many
Davidson students need to hear because of its potential to effect all of us. Take Back the Nightis a vehicle
to express the dangers of assault, yet a large number of students were turned away. This should not be
an event for a small number of students but rather an event accessible to all.those interested. We are
writing this letter because we are upset that we missed this important event and hope that, in the future,

_ the necessary arrangements will be made to allow everyone to hear the message it provides.

Thank you,

Katie Byrnes ‘00

Robin Dodson ‘00
Cortney Escaravage ‘00
Becky Sheridan ‘00

LETTERS TO THE EprTors continued on page 7
