So, this week’s News section is crammed with articles on coeducation, from its subtle
beginnings to the upcoming festivities in honor of its 25th anniversary. And I, for one, think
the whole idea of a coed celebration is pretty cool. Allowing women to enroll in and graduate
from Davidson is undoubtedly a milestone in our history, and it is only right to remember it
with suitable respect. The celebration seems to have begun with a great deal of momentum;
nearly half the campus attended the a capella concert at Phi and Eu Halls last night, and Gloria
Steinem tickets are already sold out.

I have to wonder, though, are we celebrating too much and thinking too little about the
events of 25 years ago? Sure, formally bringing women to Davidson is a happy thing. If they
hadn’t, I wouldn’t be here, nor would about half of the students who contribute in so many
ways to the well-being of our school.

At the same time, I don’t think it’s fair to just gloss over the entire issue of their coming
as a natural progression, as “the way things should be.” This does the first coed graduating
classes a great injustice. The fact of the matter is, things were a bit messier than the
administration suddenly agreeing that, yes, women should be allowed to matriculate here.

Actually, the idea of formally admitting women met with great opposition — though
whether they were a majority or merely a small but vocal group, I know not. One of the

:

UESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1
steed eas ea a A098

members of the first coed class told me that things weren’ tall that anda bag of chips right away;
it took time and effort for women to be accepted as legitimate Davidson students.

In fact, this alumna told me that not even the Dean of Students at the time supported them.
How wouldit feel, I wonder, to know that even your support network within the administration
didn’t support you? Not to mention the torment that some less-than-willing males must have
inflicted upon them. .

But they must have had their supporters, too, because the “first” women of Davidson
somehow made it through, helping to pave the way for the generations of coeds to follow.

My point is this: We are celebrating the 25th anniversary of coeducation at Davidson.
Several hard-working committees have planned a week of events for us to enjoy in honor of
this momentous occasion. But let’s make sure to remember exactly who we are remembering:
the pioneers (and their supporters) who made coeducation at Davidson a reality.

anh EL. Cai?

—

@ LETTER TO THE EDITOR @

Thank you for getting the word out

To the Editor:

Please accept our many thanks for the generous coverage you gave to our efforts during Depression Screening Day on campus. Many students filled out screening forms available in the paper and in the
Union, and some students have made follow-up appointments because of their concerns. The program on Thursday, Oct. 8, was very well-attended, and participation was active and enthusiastic. There is no
question that programming of this kind both encourages those who may be experiencing difficulty to seek counseling, and also helps those who are worried about others to express that concern. It was gratifying
to see that many students come to a program right before Fall Break, during a busy academic week. Again, thank you for your participation in this important programming on campus.. The Davidsonian is a

key link in our “getting the word out” on campus. Thanks as always for that help..

The Davidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor in Chief
SARAH E. OGDEN

Business Manager

News Editors SCOTT RERDER Op-Ed Editor
LIZ NEIHEISEL Circulation Manager ERIN McKINLEY
CARRIE ARTHPR EUGENIA LEATH ae
Arts & Living Editors
Sports Editors Advertising Mana gers MELISSA ANN de
ALISON KALETT PETER CLARK CASTRIQUE
BRIAN MAYERHOFER = pnavip JOHNSTON WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
News Layout Editors Copy Editors Op-Ed Layout Editors
JOHN DUNWOODY WHITNEY BLAKE JOHN DUNWOODY
EVAN McCORMICK CINDY CLARK EVAN McCORMICK
* ELDER GWIN JOHN DUNWOODY. WILL PARKER
STEPHANIE ERICKSON ;

Sports Layout Editors MOLLY MARKARIAN Arts& Living Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON CATHERINE CORNWELL
CADER HOWARD Ad Designers KAREN SWEENEY

BEN. COVINGTON AILEEN WATERS
CADER HOWARD
Photo Editor
SALLIE McMURRAY

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

Sincerely yours,
DeWitt Crosby
Psychologist, Counseling Center

Respect varying opinions

my life thus far. I find Davidson a very welcoming atmosphere for me. If I were to

I like Davidson. A lot. Probably attending this college is the best decision I’ ve made in
generalize about myself in a brief, somewhat inaccurate way, lam a white, heterosexual,

politically moderate female from an upper-middle class"family in Atlanta. Pretty generic,
especially here. Davidson is a cozy fit.

As much as I appreciate this college, I see a lot of instances where Davidson creates a
hostile environment for qualities outside the mainstream. Even though I know many people
at this school who do not mold to this unreceptive mainstream ideology, somehow a
dichotomy exists between individual opinions and the collective projection.

“Fear always springs from ignorance,” says Ralph Waldo Emerson. In other words, we
fear what we do not know. Also what we choose not to know or what we dislike because
we do not know. I think Davidson often exemplifies this human tendency. We fear a lot.
We often refuse to face those fears, far more content to maintain the status quo. Here we
thrive on our conformity. The overwhelming atmosphere that I perceive here is one of
discomfort, especially about our differences, whether political, social, sexual, or otherwise.

My problem with the Davidson environment is its lack of reciprocity. People are much more
willing to support organizations like Project Life than FLAG. Or setting work aside to read The
Davidsonian and ignoring the copy of Libertas. Last January, over 70 percent of freshman women
decided to participate in self-selection. That says a lot about the positive impact of eating houses on
this campus, but why did not even 30 percent of the same freshman women find adequate social
Opportunities outside of Patterson Court? When at least 20 percent of the 18- to 24-year-old population
has a sexually transmitted disease, why do Health Advisors get slammed for explaining how to use
contraceptives? Why does Davidson not have any openly homosexual students?

Basically my complaint is this: if you want people on this campus to listen and be

~ respectful of your opinions, you should act likewise. Don’t blow someone off and then

expect them to be receptive to you. Just because your interests may be more widely shared
at an environment does not make them any more valid or worthy of attention. Henry David
Thoreau best states my recommendation: “Let your life be a counter friction to stop the
machine.” Be respectful enough to accept the existence of varying opinions, even when you
don’t agree. I’m the first to admit that I disagree with a lot of people and organizations, but
as far as criticism, debate, or discussion goes — bring it on, all of it.

Finally, I want to emphasize that in no way do I want to put myself on a higher moral
ground than anyone else here, whining and pointing fingers at lesser beings. As Martin
Luther King, Jr. once said, “Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the
renewing of your mind.” J encourage everyone here (myself included) to make a collective
effort to tolerate Davidson all-compassingly, not just that which we choose to know.

ae eee eee ee ee
