THE DAVIDSONIAN

have an active year

By Kets HETHERINGTON
Staff Writer

The Davidson College Republicans have been
more active than usual. A large part of this
increase in activity may be attributed to the fact
that this is an election year, but Jesse Smallwood,
co-president of the organization, commented that
“there are even more active Republican students
here on campus than there have been in recent
election years.” ;

Under the direction of the co-presidency of
Jesse Smallwood and Lee Burnett, the Davidson
College Republicans have been very busy since
the activities fair. In September, the organization’ s
members sponsored a voter registration drive in
which between 100 and 150 Davidson students
were registered to vote. The precise number of
those registered to vote is difficult to ascertain
because those registering to vote have to mail in
some of the forms themselves.

The group has also been slaving away in
Republican Senator Faircloth’s Charlotte office
stuffing envelops and calling registered Republi-
cans. Moreover, the College Republicans helped
sponsor Dyln Glenn who spoke here this past
Sunday evening. Dlyn Glen is a recent Davidson
graduate who was defeated in Georgia’s ninth
congressional district in his bid for the U.S. House.

Davidson College Republicans can be cred-
ited with bringing a long list of speakers to campus
including Sue Myrick, the representative from our
district, and former mayor of Charlotte and once
gubetnatorial candidate Richard Vinoroot. And
perhaps if all goes well, Senator Faircloth can be
enticed to come speak at Davidson sometime later
this year. Senator Faircloth is a first term Senator
running as an incumbent against Democrat John
Edward. If Faircloth is re-elected this November,
he will be entering his second term as Senator.

In an interview with Smallwood, he com-
mented on his hopes for the future of the Davidson
College Republicans which include a webpage
and newsletter. Smallwood also speculated about

what will be the decisive issues in the 2000 presi-
dential election and this year’s congressional elec-
tions. Chief among the issues concerning the next
presidential election will be the issue of “‘charac-
ter” and “moral behavior of elected officials”:
Americans will be slow to elect another leader
with morals so stilted as those of President
Clinton’s.” Education will be a significant factor
this November in many congressional districts.
Furthermore, Smallwood hazarded the guess that
there will be a general calling by Americans for a
tax break now that the country is running a budget
surplus, which will play right into the Republican
Party’s hand. ,

When asked whether an investigation into
President Clinton’s private life is warranted,
Smallwood had the following to say: “The minute
President Clinton lied under oath about his rela-
tionship with Monica Lewinsky and then to the
American people, the issue became a public not
private affair warranting such a personal investi-
gation.”

Whenasked the question how fairly he thought °

Republicans leadership had been to Clinton dur-
ing this investigation to date, Smallwood said, “I
don’t think Republican leaders such as Gingerich
and Hyde have made the investigation into a
partisan issue. Furthermore, with the exception of
Tom DeLay, Republican leadership has made few
personal attacks on Clinton. All they have said is
that the issue warrants further investigation.”
Smallwood, however, went on to say that he be-
lieved that the issue of campaign finance “is as
serious, if not more serious an issue than the whole
Lewinsky affair because it deals directly with the
electoral process.”

The leadership of the Davidson College Re-
publicans is experienced in politics in their own
right. Smallwood has worked for Connie Morella,
a Republican representative from Maryland, Sue
Myrick a Republican representative from North
Carolina, and most recently in Ellan Sauerbrey’s
gubenatorial campaign in Maryland. Andrew
Marvin, vice-president of the organization, worked
this past summer in the Defense Department.

College Republicans

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 1998

On Campus Interviews Monday,
November 2. Information session

about her career experiences with
International Paper.

Nov. 1, 7:00 pm, Guest House. Sign up in
the Career Service Office. Come speak
with recent graduate Kate Stevens ‘98

ie

oc

YES!

aco™ Guaran

INSTANT CREDIT

pr a

teed Credit Cards with Credit Limits
Up To $10,000 Within Days!

No Crepit, No Jos, No PARENT SIGNER, No Security Deposit!

no credit ¢ bad credit * no income? _

If You Think You
Cant Get A Credit
Card, Think Again.

ORDER FORM

I want Credit Cards immediately. QggUagaeiisseg ons

CRA, PO Box 16662, ATLANTA, GA 30321

PPPPTITETTETITTTTTTTITTTTTTITTT TTT itr

rrr ren rr rr errr rrr reer rr rrr trettr rrr rtrrit it ti irri trite
Cededccdoccesconcostecges sevendsevedepodeceasoedensovessergrnersveceevee

errrrrrrrrrr rr rrrrrrerrrrrrrrrrrrTiT Titi hhh

Guaranteed °10,000 In Credit!

Master Card

ae on oe ae ee ee ee

aa

