BY BRATTON HoLMEs
Sports Editor

After a four-game skid, any team is going to
be looking for a chance for redemption. After
dropping a game each to Winthrop and Elon and
two to Ohio, the Wildcat baseball team certainly
wanted such a
chance.

As luck
(or lack thereof)
would have it, that

Auburn : 12 chance came in
a , the form of atwo-
Wildcats 0 game road trip to

Auburn, Auburn
was the Wildcat’s second SEC opponent this sea-
son along with top-20 team South Carolina, who
defeated Davidson early in the season.

Early in the first game the Wildcats dug a
hole for themselves by giving up six runs in the
first two innings and scoring none. The Tigers
understandably grew comfortable with their lead,
but Davidson gave them a scare in the third.

With one out, leftfielder Brian Joyce singled
and advanced to second on a wild pitch. Brian
Brown singled to score Joyce. Luke Goodwin
then struck out to bring Ryan Conatser to the plate.

With a single swing Conatser got Davidson
back into the game. He homered to left center to
make the score 6-3. The homer was Conatser’s
first as a Wildcat.

THE AC Nt

Baseball loses two on Auburn road trip !

With the bases now empty and two outs, DH
Mike DeSimone doubled down the left field line
and scored on a single by Marshall Tyler. Tyler
was caught stealing for the third out. A strong
inning had brought Davidson within two.

Starting pitcher Jamie McDonald had looked
shaky in the first two innings as he gave up six runs
and walked four. His quick improvement in the
third added to the Wildcats’ comeback bid.

The first batter grounded out and the second
flied out to right. McDonald walked the Tigers’
lead-off hitter, who was then stranded on base
when the batter flied to center.

The comeback continued for Davidson in the
fourth. Leading off the inning, rookie Jeremiah
Parvin hit an incredible home run which cleared
the scoreboard in left field. Both of the Auburn
radio announcers agreed that the home run, which
was well over 400 feet, was one of the longest they
had ever seen. :

After Kurt Davis grounded out, Drew Will-
iams singled, Joyce flied out, and Brown singled
for his third hit of the game. Goodwin went to first
on a pitcher’s error, which loaded the bases for
Conatser.

Conatser was unable to duplicate his earlier
heroics as he grounded out to short to end the
inning and Davidson’s comeback attempt.

In the bottom of the fourth, the Wildcat’s
defense lost the poise it had shown in the third.
Auburn scored two runs on three hits and a walk.

The defensive skid continued as Auburn

scored another twelve runs in the final three in-
nings.

Fritz Porter relieved McDonald in the sixth.
Porter gave up seven runs in the sixth, though all
of them were unearned, Auburn scored four more
in the next inning, three of which were credited to
Porter. E

Davidson scored two more runs in the sev-
enth off of a single by Conatser, a double by
DeSimone, and a sacrifice fly by Tyler. Jeff Case
closed the game for the ‘Cats, giving up one
unearned run in the eighth.

The good news in the second game was that
Davidson’s defense improved considerably. The
bad news was that Auburn’s did too. Auburn shut
out the Wildcats and gave up a mere three hits, a
double and two singles by Goodwin.

Sophomore Garland Yarborough started the
game and rookie Wes Self relieved him in the
third. They gave up a combined nine runs on
eleven hits in three innings of play.

Jeff Case relieved Self in the fourth and held
the Tigers in check for three and one-third innings.
He gave up one run on three hits and struck out
three.

Case stifled the potent Auburn offense, but
extremely poor run support allowed Auburn to
maintain a healthy lead. DeSimone relieved Case
to pitch the final one and two-thirds. Auburn
scored an additional two runs off of two hits in the
game and won by a score of 12-0.

Men’s tennis 5-4 in March

Team finishes 2-1 on
spring break road trip

BY BRaTTON HOLMES
Sports Editor

_ While most Davidson students spent their
break basking in the Florida sun or cruising down
the slopes of Colorado, the men’s tennis team
instead embarked on one of the most grueling tests
of endurance and composure in all of sports- the
road trip.

Davidson played three matches in three dif-
ferent states in
four days. Fatigue
is obviously acon-
cern in this situa-
tion, but the team
somehow man-
aged to improve
their play as the
road trip went on.

The first
match came
March | in Chat-

tanooga against

the UTC Moccasins. This match was Davidson’s
worst performance of the trip, winning only two
matches: #1 singles and #3 doubles.

Jon Pastel again came through for the ‘Cats in
the #1 match. After falling behind by losing the
first set 4-6, Pastel won the next two 6-3, 6-2 to
give Davidson its first and only singles win.

The other win came at #3 singles where Jeff
Tonidandel and Ty Epp defeated their opponents
8-5. UTC won the meet 7-2.

After a one day break, the Wildcats were able
to regroup and win aclose match against Georgia
Southern, Pastel set the pace for the rest of the
team, defeating his opponent in straight sets, 7-5,
7-5,

Davidson lost the #2 and #3 singles spots and
then swept the last three spots. Alex Okulski, Whit
Hansen, and Scott Briggs followed Pastel’s lead
by winning their matches in straight sets.

Pastel and Briggs also won the #2 doubles
spot to clinch the victory for Davidson.

The final match of the road trip proved to be
the best one for Davidson. The ‘Cats finished off
with a 7-0 thrashing of the Citadel. Each of the
singles players won instraightsets. Pastel, Okulski,
Hansen, and Briggs each tallied another singles
victory in addition to Brett Ialacci at #2 and
Tonidandel at #3.

Ted Kaplan and Judson Sutherland handily
won the #1 doubles match by a score of 8-4, as did

Epp and Tonidandel at #3. The only loss was at #2_

doubles, which Pastel and Briggs lost 8-6.

Menloseto Rice, beat Swarthmore
handily in non-conference play

By BriAN MAYERHOFER
Sports Editor

In preparation for the tough Southern Con-
ference schedule, the Davidson men’s tennis team

played three non-conference opponents in the past.

ten days.

While the school was on spring break,
Davidson faced the Owls of Rice University on
Friday, March 6th. Entering the match, the
Wildcat’s #1 singles player, Jon Pastel was ranked
51st in the nation. Up until this point, Pastel had
been almost un-
beatable. He had
lost only one
match and beaten
the fifth ranked
player in thé na-
tion. Therefore,
it came as bit of a
shock when Pas-
tel dropped his match to Efe Ustundag of Rice. It
was an extremely tight match as Ustundag won 5-
7, 6-4, 6-4. Rice’s players defeated Davidson's
second and third ranked players, Brett Ialacci and
Jeff Tonidandel. Ialacci was downed by Shane
Stone 6-2, 7-6 (7-5), while Robert Collins de-
feated Tonidandel 7-6 (7-4), 6-0. Alex Okulski
and Scott Briggs won their respective matches for
the Cats. Okulski was a winner over Naisohn
Afrai 6-2, 7-5. Briggs defeated Sasha Silver 7-6
(9-7), 6-0. The #2 doubles team of Pastel and
Briggs was also victorious.

Davidson got back on track by handily de-
feating Division III power Swarthmore. Even
without Pastel, the Wildcats won eight out of nine
matches on the day. Brett Ialacci moved up to the
top spot, and he played well, dominating
Swarthmore’s Roger Werner 6-1, 6-2. On the
afternoon, only two matches went three sets. In
both cases, the Cats came out on top. Other singles
winners included Jeff Tonidandel, Whit Hansen,
Scott Briggs, and Eric Bourn. All three doubles
teams were victorious.

The nest win over James Madison gave
Davidson an impressive record ‘of 9-3 for the
season.In these three sets of matches, the doubles
teams were especially strong. They won six out of
nine matches. Junior Scott Briggs has also been
playing very well of late.. In the singles and
doubles matches against Rice, Swarthmore, and
JMU, Briggs finished an impressive 6-0. Alex
Okulski has also looked strong at times. He
defeated both his opponents from Rice and JMU.
While most of the talk surrounding this year’s
team has been centered on Pastel, Davidson will
continue to need strong contributions from’ the
supporting cast to keep thete current success,

Wildcats win two of
three home matches
last weekend

Team’s record improves
to 10-4 on the season

BY ANDREW FULFORD
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team was busy this week-
end hosting three matches in three days. On Friday
the ‘Cats played a hotly contested match with
James Madison University. The two teams split
the singles’ matches with the ‘Cats taking the #1,4,
and 6 seeds. Pastel won easily at #1, 6-2, 6-2.
Sophomore Alex Okulski won the #4 match, 6-3,
6-0. At the num-
ber six seed, jun-
ior Scott Briggs
continued his out-
standing play,
winning 7-5, 6-0.
The deciding fac-
tor in the match
came down to the

5 doubles — point,
——| which the Wild-
cats captured win-
ning the two and
three seeds. Pastel and Briggs came up big with an
8-1 victory, while senior Jeff Tonidandel and
junior Ty Epp took the three seed, 8-3.

On Saturday, the men took the court against
ACC powerhouse Virginia. The team of senior
Ted Kaplan and junior Judson Sutherland won the
#1 doubles 9-8, combining with Tonidandel and
Epp’s win at three 8-3 giving the Wildcats the
doubles point. Unfortunately, the only singles’
win for the ‘Cats was sixth seed Briggs who came
back and won his match, 0-6, 6-4, 6-4.

Sunday proved to be a better day for Wildcat
tennis. Just as Virginia had done the day before,
Davidson dominated the singles’ matches against
the University of Richmond. Pastel won easily 6-

Wildcats _
Richmond 2

3, 6-2. Sophomore Brett Ialacci took three to win’

the 2 seed, 3-6, 6-2, 7-5. Okulski and freshman
Whit Hansen, 4 and 5 seeds respectively, both won
in straight sets. Briggs once again toyed with his
opponent, rallying back for a 5-7, 6-2, 6-1 win.
The ‘Cats were swept in the doubles matches to
lose the point, but it mattered little. Final score
was 5-2.

The men will travel to Montgomery, Ala-
bama, this weekend to play in the USTA National
Intercollegiate Championships. Matches are sched-
uled for Thursday through Sunday.

from making it to
the Big Dance

Recognition from page 17

true. In terms of getting your name out there,
nothing comes close to the NCAA men’s basket-
ball tournament.

In the 24 hours after Davidson’s tourney-
winning triumph over Appalachian St. at the
Greensboro Coliseum, images of the Wildcats
competing or celebrating appeared on the front
page of the Charlotte Observer and the Observer’s
sports section, the college basketball page in USA
Today, and the start-up frame of ESPNet
SportsZone, ESPN’s website.

Throughout the week prior to Selection Sun-
day, Davidson got air time on SportsCenter every
night as ESPN displayed the schools that had
secured tickets to the Dance.

And from the time the pairings are announced
until the first of 63 games tips off Thursday after-
noon, D-A-V-I-D-S-O-N will be on every bracket
in every tournament pool in every office around
the country.

So just what the heck and where the heck is
Davidson College? The question will be asked —
and hopefully answered.

“Tf you look across the country at the schools
that have the academic standards that we have,”
McKillop-said at the press conference after the
Appalachian victory, “there are very few of them
that have consistent success. You'll talk Stanford,
you'll talk Princeton, you’ ll talk Duke.

“The other schools that rival us academically
generally will have one year on, two years on,
three years on, and then they’ll slack off. Penn is
a perfect example of that. I’m very proud of the
fact that our guys have been consistent.”

“It’s not so much for the people who haven’t
been involved,” fifth-year guard Mark Donnelly
said. “I just think it’s so special to share it with our
fans, the great supporters of the program through
thick and thin. It’s more for those people, to give
them a sense of pride about Davidson.

“It kind of legitimates all the love and support
they’ ve given us. If it makes them feel a lot better
about Davidson, that’s great. But I’m not really
too concerned about people who didn’t know
about it and know about us now.

But thanks to its coveted spot in the NCAAs,
Davidson will be known.

Known for its top-notch students and faculty.
Known for its demanding curriculum.

Known for its basketball program — a pic-
ture of class and dignity in an often corrupt colle-
giate sports landscape.

Known period.

Everything we at Davidson have known for
years — the quality of the school, the quality of the
basketball — will now be known by others. Fi-
nally.

It is not Denison. It is not Dickinson. The
name is Davidson.

Anna Judy.

5 Recognition finally came for
Mark Donnelly in his senior year.
