By Jenny Hapcoop
Staff Writer

On Jan. 19, Davidson College offered stu-
dents, faculty, and community members the chance
to remember and celebrate the achievements of
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. and the Civil Rights
Movement. Afternoon classes were canceled, and
students were encouraged to attend the variety of
seminars that took place at the Union.

The.theme of the day was “Spreading the
Dream.” Seminars on six different topics, includ-
ing women in the Civil Rights Movement and Dr.
King’s perspective on affirmative action, contrib-
uted to the spreading of knowledge and the spark-
ing of much discussion and contemplation.

A lecture and discussion entitled “Women in
the Civil Rights Movement” was led by Davidson’s
Dr. Sally McMillen. Opening with a historical
look at the black woman as:a slave, McMillen
discussed the family life and the working condi-
tions for these women, who faced three types of
discrimination. First, they were discriminated
against because they were women, second, be-
cause they were black, and third, because they
were slaves.

7 THE A VIDSONIAN

avidson remembers Martin Luther King, Jr.

Focusing on the struggles they faced,
McMillen then progressed through history by dis-
cussing the black woman’s role in the church
during the late 19th century. At that time, black
women led Sunday school and focused on reli-
gious faith, while addressing the violence and the
downfall of black American men of the times.

The church was the center of the African-
American community, particularly during the
1950s and ‘60s. McMillen suggested that the
strength people found in their religions gave them
more strength to overcome and triumph during the
turmoil of the Civil Rights Movement. “Most
African-Americans turned inward to their com-
munities to help each other lift their pride,” said
McMillen.

Sitting in on the seminar was Brenda Tapia,
who runs a program at Davidson called “Common
Ground.” This program seeks to bridge the racial
gap between students on campus. Tapia said,
“Quite often we have a tendency to think we can
only help our own. We need to reach out and get
past that.”

Later, in the 900 Room, Dr. Russ Snapp and
Dr. Barbara Ballard led a discussion entitled
“RACE: Shaping Our Perceptions of Ourselves

and Others.” They began the discussion by stating
that race is an ideology that has no scientific
foundation.

They encouraged students to abandon the
word “race” because it carries many negative
connotations. First, race implies a hierarchy and
it is this notion of a hierarchy that allows discrimi-
nation to continue. Secondly, “race” is often used
to separate the “white race” from all other races.
By dignifying the “white race,” people are nega-
tively focusing on the condition of not being
colored. Thus, “race,” in this sense, hinders the
progression toward equality.

After establishing their argument against the
use of the word “race,” Snapp and Ballard opened
the topic for discussion. The first question a
student asked was, “How does a black get over
being black when everyone else discriminates
against him or her?” Snapp responded by saying
that a black cannot stop thinking of himself in
terms of a black until everyone can stop thinking
in terms of race. He went on to say that this sort of
outlook:is more realistically a long term goal and
something that can only occur after many other
changes take place.

Many students felt that African-Americans

College Bowl makes a come back

Press RELEASE

nessee.

On Jan. 26 and 29, Davidson Col-
lege will host its: first college bowl
tournament since the early
1990s. College Bowl, also
called “the varsity sport of
the mind,” is a game of aca-
demic knowledge and quick
recall. Now in its 21st year,
the College Bowl campus
program is a popular tradi-
tion at over 300 institutions
of higher learning.

Like the popular radio
and television series of 50s,
60s, and 70s, the game fea-
tures two teams of four play-
ers, each competing to score
points for toss-up arid bonus
questions. The questions
cover every conceivable

topic, from literature, sci-
ence, history, geography, te-
ligion, social sciences,
multicultural topics and the
arts to popular culture, sports
and current events. The vic-
torious team from this year’s
tournament will go onto rep-

pionships, Feb. 20-22 in Knoxville, Ten-

College Bowl is organized and ad-
ministered with the cooperation of the

national (ACUI), of which Davidson
College is a member.
tournament is being run by the union
board in conjunction with the student
government association.

Our campus

he

Archives

@ 1979 Davidson College Bowl Team

resent Davidson at the regional cham-

College Bowlused

to thrive at Davidson. In the

70s and 80s, College Bowl .

was extremely popular, and
tournaments were held ev-
ery week in the Union. In

1979, a team of Davidson’

all-stars stunned almost ev-
eryone. That team beat a
tough Harvard squad 405-
110 to capture the College
Bowl National champion-
ship, and went onto the world
championship match against
the Sidney Sussex College
of Cambridge University in
Manchester.

The preliminary
rounds of College BowI will
begin on campus Jan. 26 and
29 at 4 p.m. in Phi and Eu
Halls. Sign-ups for the Col-
lege Bowl Tournament are
located at the bulletin board
in the Union, or contact

Associations of College Unions Inter- _ Britton Taylor at 6626.

who prepped for
LSAT chose Kaplan.

expert teachers

1-800-KAP-TEST

TUESDAY, JANUARY 20, 1998

should not look at themselves as simply Ameri-
cans. As freshman Allen Lee said on the topic of
recognizing the achievements of African-
Americans, “‘There’s one win for us. We need to
know that black people are making strides and
achievements.” Many students seemed to support
Lee’s sentiment for strong black role models.

Senior Joy Sparks said, “We need to look at
the United States as more of a salad bowl than as
a melting pot. We need to appreciate all the ingre-
dients: the croutons, the lettuce, and the toma-
toes.”

This idea provoked a few warm chuckles of
agreement, and led the conversation to how com-
fortable minorities feel in this country, in the
South, and on this campus.

Programs like the BSC and “Common
Ground” can help students feel more comfortable
with their peers, particularly their peers of another
race.

Davidson is always attempting to become
more diverse, but we need to remember the ques-
tion that freshman Jehan Shamsid-Deen posed:
“Are we doing everything we can, and if we do
achieve greater diversity, will we take advantage
of that?”

LSAT)
CLASS
STARTS
February

17th |
in
Davidson
Call
1-800-KAP-TEST
TODAY
to enroll

SEATS
are
LIMITED!

smart technology _ proven results

The Radicalism Holism:

Ecological Design and a Liberal Arts
Education

Dr. David Orr

Chair,

Oberlin Environmental Studies Program
Thursday, 7 p.m. in the 900 Room

¢ Speak with Dr. Orr at the Crop.Lunch, Thursday, 11:30 a.m.-1:15 p.m. in the 900 Room:
e Also, open discussion with Dr. Orr on Friday, 2:30 p.m. in the Home Room.

