Pennsylvania trio taking Wildcats to

new heig

Healthy Kerry Brown, Montrella making most of court time.

By ANDREW FuLForD
Staff Writer

Stand up and take notice.

Women’s basketball has truly ar-
rived at Davidson. With a record of 17-
8 and the third seed in the Southern
Conference tournament this weekend
in Greensboro, it is hard to believe the
program started from scratch just five
years ago, following a seven-year hia-

tus due to College budget cuts.

The rebuilding of a program that
was expected to take several years to
become competitive all changed in 1995
when three highly-recruited talents from
Pennsylvania committed to Davidson.

Jessica Montrella and twins Jamie
and Kerry Brown are juniors now and
make up a crucial part of the rapid rise
of Davidson women’s basketball.

Individually, each player has in-
stant impact on the court and com-
mands attention of opposing defenses.

But fans-may never know how
good they can be because the Browns
and Montrella have yet to complete a
season together. In fact, they never
even played a successive stretch to-
gether until this season’s pre-confer-
ence games.

The Wildcats were 5-4 during that
stretch, including an 18-point thrashing
of ACC member Georgia Tech Dec. 3
anda two-point loss to then-10th-ranked
Vanderbilt Nov. 14.

This year, it’s Jamie Btown’s turn

to cheer from the sidelines. After being
the only member of the trio to play

injury-free last year, averaging 12.3 ~

points per game and picking up the
slack for her ailing teammates, she went
down this season on Dec. 30 with a
stress fracture in her right hip,

Though she has made significant
Strides to return to the Wildcats this
season, it is not likely to happen.

With the loss of a performer whom
coach John Filar has described as “the
top player in the conference in the open
court,” the Wildcats needed to step up.

Sister Kerry and Montrella were
ready and willing.

Though she will never admit it,
Kerry Brown has come into her own
this season. She has shown elements of
brilliance the past two years, but has not
been able to stay healthy.

She played in the first 15 games of
her freshman season, starting nine of
them. The same game that Jamie re-
turned from a stress fracture of her shin,
Kerry left with a stress fracture of her
tibia.

Kerry started strong last year as a
sophomore, averaging 6.9 points and
4,2 rebounds per:game going into se-
mester break. During the break, though,
she was diagnosed with mononucleosis
and missed much of the remainder of
the year.

She returned for the final few
games, but played sparingly as to pre-
vent a relapse of her illness.

For Montrella, the tale sounds all
too familiar. After a promising fresh-
man campaign in which she started 22
of 26 games and tied for third in the
league in blocked shots, Montrella was

. oe Photos by Davidson Sports Information
@ Since coming to Davidson three years ago, Jessica Montrella, from Altoona, Pa.,

and twins Kerry (left) and Jamie Brown, from Pittsburgh, Pa., have sparked the rise
of women’s basketball at Davidson.

poised for a standout sophomore sea-
son.

But she played in only 15 contests
last season due to a battle with mono
and a recurring injury. While last year
was a personal disappointment,
Montrella believes that adversity made
her stronger and more committed than
ever to play every game with a sense of
urgency.

“Last year made me realize the
importance of the moment,” Montrella
said in a recent interview. “I have less
than two years of basketball left and
want to give it all Ihave. I want to leave

everything on the court.”

A fan favorite, that new determi-
nation is evident in her play. Although
she discredits the importance of per-
sonal achievements, Montrella passed
the 600-point mark for her career ear-
lier this season with a 17-point game
against Georgia Southern.

Montrella has been a point of
strength for the Wildcats this year, tak-
ing her game to a new level.

The Pennsylvania trio and the rest
of the Wildcats recorded the 400th win
in the history of women’s basketball at
Davidson with Saturday’s victory over

Appalachian St., and have a bonafide
chance to win the conference tourna-
ment
_. With a title, the squad would be-
come Davidson’s first-ever women’s
basketball team to advance tothe NCAA
tournament. '

The Keystone State has lived up to
its name, giving Davidson women’s
basketball not one, but three building

“blocks to a successful program.

They will look back someday and
realize they were the start of something
special. But there’s no time now.
They’ ve got a championship to win.

Wildcats aiming high

Women from page |

Davidson lost to the Mountaineers
by six points earlierin the year at Boone,
but ended the regular season Saturday
at Belk Arena with a solid double-digit
victory over Appalachian

With a win, the Wildcats would
likely face a rubber-match reunion with
their Valentine’s Day ex — the home-

town Spartans — in Saturday’s semifi-
nals at Greensboro Coliseum.

A potential three-day sprint to the
title would most likely end in a show-
down with top-seeded Georgia South-
ern, which fell to Davidson during the
Wildcats’ six-game winning streak in
late January and early February.

“We haven’t been swept by any-
body and we are playing well,” said
superstar point guard Jen O’Brien, who
was nominated for All-American hon-
ors earlier this month. “I’m pumped up.
We’re all pumped up.”

It’s no mystery, though, that the
_ Wildcats are playing minus a critical
link — guard Jamie Brown, who was
diagnosed in late December with a sea-
son-ending stress fracture in her hip.

The 5-foot-1 1 junior, who garnered
preseason all-conference honors in Oc-
tober, recorded a double-double in her
last full game at East Tennessee St.
before succumbing to injury.

But the empty slots in the stat
sheets that she left have been more than
adequately filled by the likes of Danielle
Mall, Katy Kamp, and Jamie’s sister,
Kerry Brown.

The healthy Brown has notched
seven double-doubles this season.

As Danielle Mall, Katy Kamp, and
Kerry Brown have stepped in to fill the
rebounding and scoring voids left by
Jamie Brown, specific roles have de-
veloped for each player on the team.

There are shooters, slashers,
rebounders, and practice players. In-
deed, Filar said, “What we don’t have is
people playing outside of what they can
do.”

“Everyone is filling their roles,”
O’Brien added. “The difference is that
no one is really worried about them-
selves right now. It is all about team.”

While Wildcat fans witness on a
game-by-game basis O’Brien’s spec-
tacular moves in the lane, Brown’s
smothering defense, and center Jennie
Vanlerberghe’s strong finishes inside,
they don’t see what each member of the
team brings to practice.

“Every single day, people are com-
ing to play in practice,” Filar said. “Last
year it was up and down, but this year
people are coming to play.

“Other teams don’t have that, and
that is what will give us the win. If we
want it bad enough, we are going to get
it.”

Hard work or not, what any team
needs going into a tournament is mo-
mentum. Though it at first appeared as
tragic, the loss to UNCG may turn out to
be beneficial — a mere bump in the
road to to March Madness.

After wins over coriference rivals
Appalachian and Furman this past week,
it seems the Wildcats are back on track,
en route to another trademark winning
string. :

“Anybody can get hot for three
games,” Filar said. ;

And in the Southern Conference
this year, an ultra-competitive league in
which anyone can beat anyone on any
given night, momentum is key.

By Davip ROSENBERG
Staff Writer

Jen O’Brien would write a hor-
rible autobiography.

Not due to lack of writing mate-
rial, of course, but because of her un-
willingness to speak about herself. The
book would be packed with gratitude
and smiles, but no mention of personal
achievements.

“Jen simply refuses compli-
ments,” coach John Filar said. “She
takes the credit and then bounces it off
to her teammates. That is what you
need a point guard to do.”

But O’Brien takes modesty to an
unknown echelon.

ranks sixth in the nation, and as a
sophomore, she is already the school’s
all-time leader in the category.

The second-leading scorer in the
Southern Conference, O’Brien ranks
in the nation’s top 20 in three-point
percentage. She is also one of the
league’s most feared defenders, rank-
ing first in steals with 3.7 a game.

And she was nominated for All-
American honors a few weeks ago.

Yet amid all this praise, she re-
mains humble.

At the mention of awards she has
won, such as Connecticut Player of the
Year in high school, she smiles and
shrugs. :

“Tt’s a small state,” she said.

And she will quickly insist that

Her assists total for this season:

O’Brien dazzling as a sophomore
Music to fans’ ears: Two more years

she could not have attained her success
without the help of her teammates. *

On the floor, O’Brien appears to
be'a completely different person from
her modest demeanor. She mins the
floor with authority, keeps the crowd at
attention with her quick moves to the
basket, and flicks passes that even op-
posing coaches could applaud.

“She is a terrific leader,” guard
Jamie Brown said. “She knows when
people are frustrated with their games,
when people are feeling left out. And
then she knows that, as a point guard,
she needs to keep people happy and get
those frustrated players the ball.”

Last season, O’Brien split time
with senior Monica Winter and aver-
aged 8.2 points per game. Was it a
surprise then, that the sophomore came
out against 10th-ranked Vanderbilt on
Nov. 14 and exploded for a then-career-
high 19 points?

“No,” Filar answered. “We all
knew that this whole year would be a
coming out party for Jen. At the end of
last season, I said to Jen, ‘This is your
team now for three years. You can take
it in whatever direction you want to.’”

And Davidson is moving full speed
ahead in the direction of a conference
championship. The regular season
ended as the winningest season in the
history of Davidson women’s basket-
ball. This year’s 17-win regular season
makes last year’s celebrated 15 victo-
ries appear average.

O’Brien has been at the center of
the program’s continual rise.

“Last year, there were times when
she was the best basketball player on
the floor,” Filar recalled. — :

“She would have great games, but

then she’d go back into her shell. She
didn’t want to step on anyone’s toes —
she didn’t think it was the place of a
freshman to do that.

“But this year, she has a great
amount of inner confidence — an in-
ner confidence that she won’t show to
many people.”

While she does not have the per-
sonality to “step on anyone’s toes,”
she does know when to take the game
into her own hands.

Saturday against Appalachian in
a game with tournament-seeding im-
plications, the game’s outcome was
still in question with five minutes left.

The lead changed hands with al-
most every possession, and the Moun-
taineers smelled an upset victory.
O’Brien decided to heat up.

Inaspan of 1:30, she was person-
ally responsible for 11 straight Wild-
cat points, whether it be through slash-
ing drives, assists, or free throws.
(O’Brien went 13-for-14 from the line.)

And with 3:30 remaining,
O’Brien knocked down a bomb froma
full two feet beyond the three-point
arc, bringing an excited home crowd
to its feet.

Most players that have accom-
plished what O’Brien has would be
greedy for even more. More minutes.
More shots. More points. More num-
bers.

Yet her goal remains fixed on
winning a conference tournament
championship.

“I’m not the type of player that
needs all those accolades,” said
O’Brien.

“We set the goal as a team to win
the conference. That’s my goal.”

