THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALISON KALETT
Sports Editor

Davidson diver Liz Nugent got the opportu-
nity to compete against Olympians without travel-
ing halfway around the world.

As the first diyer in Davidson history to
qualify for the NCAA zone championships, the
freshman from Fort Worth, Texas traveled to
Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge where
she competed against 44 other divers including
Olympians, international stars, and former na-
tional and NCAA champions.

“She competed in the toughest zone against
arguably the best divers in the country,” said
Davidson diving coach Ted Hautan.

Nugent, who currently holds Davidson’s

records in both the one and three-meter events,
performed extremely well, claiming 22nd place in
the one-meter event and 34th on three-meter.
Also, she easily defeated the University of Louis-
ville diver who edged her out for first place at the
recent Southern States Championships.

“I was pleased with my performance,” Nugent
said. “At the beginning of the season I never
thought I would make it here. I got the opportunity
to dive against a whole other level of competition
and meet girls who will go to the Olympics.”

Hautan was especially pleased with Nugent’s
performance in the one-meter event where she
increased the level of difficulty of her dives since
the beginning of the season. “I was really happy
with her showing on one meter.” Hautan said.
“She was really competitive with all the girls out
there and came very close to qualifying for the

C onner

@ Liz Nugent’s (left) second-place showing at Southern States
earned her a trip to NCAA zones and helped the Wildcat women win

Southern States.

SPORTS |
Liz Nugent first ’Cat ever to compete in NCAA zones

NCAA national competition. It was just a lack of
experience that kept her from qualifying. I’m sure
she’ ll be back next year and be even more com-
petitive.”

Nugent qualified for the meet at Southern
States when she earned the required 405 total
points on her eleven dives.

“It was a fantastic achievement to qualify,”
Hautan proudly pointed out. “She improved 100
points since her last championship meet in De-
cember.”

“It’s a testament to her skill,” said head
swimming and diving coach Rich DeSelm.

Nugent’s performance was also impressive
because prior to arriving at Davidson she had
never competed on the three-meter board as most
high school competition excludes the three-meter
event.

TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1999

Nugent’s coaches and teammates attribute
her success this season to her mental toughness as
well as her diving skills. ,

“She has a nice entry into the water and
knows how to finish her dives,” Hautan said.
“Also she is a good competitor, focused, and likes
to win.” a

“Liz is a very good competitor and has a way
of blocking everything out and focusing in meets,”
pointed out fellow diver, sophomore Christa
Conner. “She is very hard on herself but that’s
what makes her so good at diving. She won't
accept anything but the best from herself.”

Nugent says she “definitely plans on return-
ing to NCAA zones next year,” while Hautan
asserts, “If Liz does what she needs to do between
now and next year and trains over the summer she
will be prepared for next year.”

_ Adventure —
Center
in WV seeks local part-time
rep, generous commission.
Outdoor enthusiatst recom-

mended. Send resume to:

e-mail rep @aceraft.com
or FAX (304) 469-3053.

Erin — 895-3316

Will - 6265

Want to TRY?
Co-Ed CHEERLEADERS
WANTED

Be a part of the exciting

Millenium Season
For more Info Contact

Katie — 6466

Work in Davidson
This Summer

- Summer Employment in
the Physical Plant

The Physical Plant is now accepting appli-
cations for summer workers. Positions
available in grounds, painting, carpentry,

building services, and mechanical shops.

Interested Students should contact ee
Brawley in Jackson Court #10, Ext. 2119

_ Application Deadline is April 30, 1999

