THE DAVIDSONIAN

QUED la
ELLEN RUNNELS AND EMILY SETINA

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999.

ENG 295: Women 30, Men 0

W-. are there no men in English 295?
At a lunch sponsored by the Gender
Studies Program two weeks ago, a group of stu-
dents and faculty met to discuss issues of gender
in the classroom. We began with the question,
“What does a professor’s gender mean to you?”
Our discussion of gender as an influence on class
dynamics widened to include other areas of diver-
sity and what’s talked about inside and out of
Davidson’s classrooms. We found that gender as
a factor was as impossible to isolate as to ignore.

So what does English 295 have to do with this
discussion? Have you ever been in a class with
only one or two male, female, African American,
international, or non-Christian students? Have
you ever been that student? The role can come
with unfair expectations that the individual should
speak for or represent an entire group. Then
there’s English 295 and English 481—neither of

which can boast even a “token” male student.
English 481 is Nineteenth-Century American
Women Novelists. English 295 is the perennially
popular Women Writers, taught this spring, for the
first time ever,

it’s hard to dismiss a headline like the one that ran
last week on the front page of the New York Times:
“M.L.T. Acknowledges Bias Against Female Pro-
fessors.”

A group

without a single
male student.
Women in both

regret not having
even a single

English 295 is the perennially popular
of these classes Women Writers, taught this spring, for the
first time ever, withouta single male student.

of M.I.T. Profes-
sors recently re-
leased the results
of an internal
study that reveals
“a pattern of

male opinion in
class discussion.

Even in classes outside the Gender Studies
Program, gender, like all issues of diversity, has a
role in the classroom. Each individual’s presence
influences class dynamics and the professor is no
exception. Even if you believe that gender really
doesn’t matter in a class like calculus or German,

sometimes

subtle—but sub-
stantive and demoralizing-discrimination in areas
from hiring, awards, promotions and inclusion on
important committees to allocation of valuable
resources like laboratory space and research
money.” The article cites a recent survey’s
finding that women make up only 34 percent of the

faculty in American universities. At M.I.T. the case
is even more dramatic: 15 tenured women versus
194 tenured men in the entire School of Science.

Should gender be a consideration in faculty
hiring practices? These statistics suggest that, con-
sciously or not, it already is. There are no female
faculty in the Davidson physics department and
only one female faculty member in the math depart-
ment. Should these departments make a conscious
effort to recruit and hire women?

As this article suggests, our discussion left us
with more questions than answers. One participant
asked whether introducing a’”;women’s”’ issue in
class discussion was a sign to men in the class to
keep quiet. We all hoped not. More than anything
a university needs to be a place where these and
other questions of diversity can be asked and ad-
dressed openly and where diversity is not seen as
only a minority’s issue.

JORDON STEELE

Demanding more out of our “Davidson Experience”

I were in deep thought, pondering the

plethora of dining options available for us
on the campus. “Commons or the Union?” “The
Union or Commons?” Feel free to take a break and
rest your brains, overwhelmed by the dilemma. (I
myself find that a great way to rest one’s brain is
to pick up either the most recent copy of WWF
Magazine or Libertas.) Anyway, after much de-
liberation, we trooped across the killing fields of
Cambodia we call our front lawn to the Union
Café.

As most of us well know, the Café is world-
renowned for its fine cuisine of cog au vin, canard
a l’orange, and hamburger au fromage. My
mouth watering in anticipation of the grease bath
that would soon quench my arteries, I approached
the Davidson student behind the grill, undoubt-
edly struggling to make her next payment on her
Toyota Land Cruiser. Blankly staring at me, she
said, “The Grill’s closed.” Taken aback, I glanced
at my watch (I didn’t really have a watch, but

S aturday night at about 6:35, my friends and

humor me) and noticed that it was only 6:40; .

unsuspecting moron that I am, I was under the
impression that when the hours of the grill were
posted as open until seven o'clock, that is what it
meant. A full time Davidson employee on hand
confirmed the cook’s claim that the grill closed at
6:30. Meanwhile, a security officer on duty warily
pulled at her bubble gum and let it snap back

against her face, cautiously overseeing the loom-
ing melee. My friends were of no help, as friends
usually are, hemming and hawing with indecisive-
ness as to whether (now that the God of Laziness
had magically changed the grill hours) they should
buy les pizza-boats or les slim-jims for dinner.
Finally, after confirming with the front desk, run
by another
student trying

beers, and a partridge in a pear tree. There is
nothing that angers me more. In fact, I have sent
many a mail bomb to these dads and their mon-
keys. But if we ever turned them away before
closing time and, for some reason, it got back to
our boss, I have no doubt that I would not only be
fired but bludgeoned to death on the spot. Maybe
that is why I
gota little an-

to make ends
meet on his
Ferrari pay-
ments, that the
grill did in-
deed close at
seven on Sat-
urdays, the

“The Union or Commons?” Feel free to take a
break and rest your brains, overwhelmed by the
dilemma. (I myself find that a great way to rest
one’s brain is to pick up either the most recent
copy of WWF Magazine or the Libertas.)

noyed at the
maitre d and
the serveur’s
cavalier atti-
tude towards
their jobs and
their custom-
ers. I have

cook decided -
that she had
forgotten the hours of the grill and that I could
order something from the deli. Being the easygo-
ing and non-confrontational person that I am, I
reluctantly conceded and ordered the special for
all complainers, roast beef with loogee. &
Ihave worked in food service for three years.
There have been countless times when some drunk
redneck and his tee-ball team have stumbled into
the restaurant five minutes before it is supposed to
close and ordered 172 cokes, 37 pizzas, 15 subs, 10

not been at

Davidson
long, sol was not under the impression that we live
in a fantasy land where our employees are free
from the responsibility and repercussions that come
with flipping burgers in the real world. Call me a
freshman, but I am incredulous that these two
workers did not know their own hours. Maybe
they just love to work there so much, they decided
to turn off the grill at some random time and sit
their overnight, on the clock, until the next zom-
bies came in. I was under the impression that we,

the students of Davidson College, are their employ-
ers; we pay their paychecks.

I ask you, loyal readers of Dave and Erich,
when are we supposed to care about our school?
When our co-editor revels in his cultural illiteracy
by not reading the newspaper, when the Vail Com-
mons staff turns the lights off in Commons at
exactly seven o’clock (as a part of President Vagt’s
secret money-saving ploy to turn off every electri-
cal outlet at seven o’clock by the year 2000), when
the Union Board has to serve free pizza and drinks
to entice students to come and learn about anorexia,
and when the college is tearing up the campus to
build’ a yellow brick road to the house of your
favorite money-grubbing Big Cat and mine while
handicap accessibility in Chambers consists of an
18" century dolly and some muscleman named Vic
standing at the bottom of the stairwell, (breath)
what do we do? We schedule another race-relations
forum. Maybe we should save our campus before
we save the world. There are lots of problems with
Davidson that are right under our taped glasses, and
we need to be aware of this. We have not only the
right but the duty to ask the questions most pertinent
to our college experience: “Where does our tuition
go? For what are our employees accountable? And
why does every article in the Davidsonian have
some reference to black pants?” After all, it doesn’t
hurt to care about a 30-thousand-dollar-per-year
college once in a while.

KRISTEN [TAYLOR

-- he bulletin board advertising the event had
white words that stood out defiantly against
a solid black background, And these
women did stand out, and specifically stood up
defiantly to address issues of juvenile sexual abuse
and adult rape.

The power that surrounds Take Back the
Night is incredible, including the necessity. of
arriving early to snag a seat close to the speaker’s
platform. I wouldn’t call the platform a stage
because these women are not performing. For
many speakers, it is the first time they have spoken
publicly about their experience. Their honesty
and the truthful telling of what they thought could
never or would never happen to them is moving in

The shining

its simplicity.

The night is full of symbols; but the message
is singular; it is an opportunity for the courageous
to share their stories and a celebration of that
courage. Bright

everyone’s wrists. The ribbons last far beyond the
end of the night; many wear the ribbon until it falls
off. It is a reminder not only of the night, but also
of the brave women who shared their stories. One

of the event’s pur-

cloths dyed in a
cloud-like de-

sign draped the hese women did stand out, and specifically
stood up defiantly to address issues of
dicative of the juvenile sexual abuse and adult rape.

platform, in-

warm | atmo-

poses is also to en-
courage others to
deal with unac-
knowledged  in-
stances of abuse in
their own lives; in

sphere created
by the support-
ive audience ready to celebrate strong women. At
the conclusion of the speakers, the audience mem-
bers are asked to help each other tie ribbons around

this way, itis anight
of emotional and
spiritual empowerment for everyone in attendance.

After tying ribbons on each other, the audi-

‘

ence moves outside the Union to. continue the
acknowledgement of abuse by tying a ribbon on the
designated tree for everyone known by Davidsonites
who has been a victim. As I looked around the
informal gathering circled around the tree, I was
impressed by the power I felt radiating from the
group. It wasn’t incredibly windy, but each time we
tried to light our candles they went out.

Yet everyone was determined to keep the
candles lit, and the determination on the faces
around me reminded me of the speakers. They
refused to hide in the dark, to bury their experi-
ences. Instead, they took heart and spoke— shin-
ing, bold words to counter a background of dark-
ness.
