THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Cats split pair against Woffor

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

As the front end of the conference
season drew to a close this. week,
Davidson found themselves tied with
Chattanooga for 5" place in the confer-
ence with a record of 5-4, League-lead-
ing UNC-Greensboro jumped out to an
8-2 start, followed by 7-2 Georgia South-
erm.

Entering this weekend’s action,
the Lady Wildcats boasted a 5-1 South-
ern Conference record in games played
at Belk Arena. But unfortunately for
Davidson, half of the conference games
are played on the road, where our ‘Cats
were a winless 0-3. And a .500 record
won’t win many championships.

Davidson 65, Wofford 66
Monday, January 18
Spartanburg, South Carolina

Their longing for the comforts of
the Baker Sports Complex could not
have been more prevailing than last
Monday night, when the ‘Cats dropped
a game at Wofford, handing the Terrti-
ers their first conference victory in nine
tries.

Coach John Filar described the
game as “upsetting.”

“In the first half, anything and
everything that could have gone wrong
went wrong.”

The only thing going for the “Cats
in the first half was Jessica Montrella,
the 6’2” senior forward out of Altoona,
Pennsylvania that Filar has described
as perhaps “‘the most consistent person
on this team this year.” Montrella

Jen O’Brien, SoCon assist leader, runs the

$

stepped out of the post to knock down
four 3-pointers in the first half alone, on
her way to leading all scorers with 20
points on the evening.

The Wildcats were down 15 points
at one point in the first half, before

cutting the deficit to five at the half. °

Davidson let Wofford pull away again
to another fifteen point lead in the sec-
ond half before rallying to tie the game
at 62-62 ona Kerry Brown put-back of
Katy Kamp’s missed free-throw. .

But then Wofford’ s 6’3” freshman
Stephanie Adelaine and her teammates
pulled away for the final time. Davidson
trailed by just one with 20 seconds
remaining, but committed back-to-back
turnovers to hand Wofford their first
conference victory of the season.

“That was really the most disap-
pointing thing at the end,” said Filar.
“You hope you get at least a look at the
basket and a shot. Unfortunately, we
didn’t. We turned it over at atime when
we couldn’t afford to.”

The Wildcats learned a difficult
lesson that night, as they failed to capi-
talize on losses by UNC-Greensboro
and Georgia Southern that could have
landed Davidson just one game out of
the conference lead. Instead, the ‘Cats
fell to 5-4, placing them fifth among the
ten Southern Conference teams.

After the loss, Filar warned, “““We
can’t afford to have (another off night).
We can’t even afford to learn any more
lessons. It’s to the point now that if
we’re not careful, the regular season
conference championship could get out
of reach very quickly.”

“Over the next nine games, we’ ve
got to put a streak together. If there’s
ever a time to start a positive streak, it’s

Mike Anderson

baseline in a recent game.

Saturday against Chattanooga.”

Davidson 80, Chattanooga 76
Saturday, January 23
Chattanooga, Tennessee

Responding to their coach’s plea
and perhaps fully recognizing the ur-
gency of their predicament, John
Filar’s Wildcats secured their first con-
ference road victory of the season on
Saturday at Chattanooga.

The victory avenged UTC’s 86-84
upset of Davidson back on November
28. Following that conference-opening

. defeat; the Wildcats rallied to winseven

consecutive games through the month

of December. Wildcat fans can only —

hope that this Chattanooga game, too,
will serve as the catalyst for another tear
through the Southern Conference.

Davidson was able to recover from
adismal first-half performance in which
Chattanooga shot 57% from the floor to
Davidson’s 37%. UTC’s “drive and
dish” offense—that sank 11 3-pointers
inthe teams’ previous meeting—helped
the Lady Mocs jump out to a 41-38 half-
time lead.

For the:second time in as many
games, Davidson had to contend with a
dominating freshman in the post. This
time it was Chattanooga’s Heather
Dykes, whose 17 points on 7-7 from the
floor helped the Lady Mocs outscore
Davidson 24-10 in the paint during the
first half.

Thanks to some superior free-
throw shooting, Davidson was able to
stay within striking distance through-
out the first half. The Wildcats shot 16-
18 (89%) from the line, while Chatta-
nooga barely broke 50% at 6-11.

Filar responded to Chattanooga’s
first-half dominance in the paint with
some inside firepower of his own,
namely 6’3” center Jessica Heath, a
sophomore out of Monument, Colo-
rado. “As a coach,” beamed Filar, “you
love to see somebody step it up and give
you the ability to increase their role... If
Jessica Heath doesn’t have the game
she has, we don’t win that game.”

While Katy Kamp spent much of
the second half on the, bench in foul
trouble before fouling out with just shy
of six minutes to play, Heath scored 12
points on the night—far eclipsing her
average of 2.7 ppg on the year. The
reserve center also helped to pacify
Chattanooga on the other half of the
court, racking up a number of rebounds
and blocked shots on the defensive end.

And as it has been time and time
again for the Wildcats this year, senior
captain Jamie Brown took control of
the game in the closing minutes to guide
Davidson to a 80-76 victory. Brown
secured a crucial rebound and bucket in
the waning seconds of the game on her
way to a career-high 24 points.

EXTRA INCOME NOW! bx

ENVELOPE STUFFING — $600 - $800 every week
Free Details: SASE to
International Inc.
1375 Coney Island Ave.
Brooklyn, New York 11230

Own transportation.

ma ~~

ATTENTION SOPHOMORES AND JUNIORS

Duke Endowment Internships available this summer for two students from
Davidson to work in the Charlotte area in one of the Duke Endowment
supported areas (health care, childcare, rural churches and higher education).
To be eligible, you must be available from June | until August 1, and have your

-A full description of the internship and applications are available in the
Dean of Students Office, 102 Chambers. Deadline: February 5.

Jessica Montrella applies
the pressure.

Davidson went on a 14-1 run late-
in the second half. Then, with 43.6
seconds left in the game, O’Brien stood
on the free throw line with two shots
and a chance to extend a 78-76 lead,
forcing Chattanooga into a two-posses-
sion game. But in uncharacteristic fash-
ion, the 68% free-throw shooter missed
the pair. Jamie Brown leapt out of the
block to secure the offensive rebound
and, in effect, the ballgame. Brown
added a basket off a subsequent O’ Brien
rebound and assist in the waning sec-
onds, and Davidson improved their con-
ference record to 6-4.

Looking Ahead

Davidson rounds out their confer-
ence schedule with three home and six
road games over the next four weeks
before heading to the Southern Confer-
ence Tournament. These next few weeks
will demand near flawless performances
in order to ascend into the upper ech-

“ i 2

Photo Courtesy of Mr. Jimmy Magette

elons of the conference in time for tour-
nament seedings.

“With everybody beating up on
each other, you just can’t tell. We’re a
team that could go anywhere from 6"
place to 1“ place, that’s an unbelievable
range. What you definitely don’t want
to dois have to play a #5, #6, or #7 place
team in the first round,” said Filar.

For a class of three seniors (Jess
Montrella, Kerry Brown, & Jamie
Brown) that has seen the fledgling pro-
gram improve during each of their three
seasons in Wildcat red & black, this
next month poses an opportunity to
leave one final legacy on a program
they have helped to mold and develop.

_ “Every game «is a reminder that it’s

almost done,” proclaims Filar. “If you
have the opportunity to play college
ball, than you have been given a special
blessing... You want to make the most’
of this, It’s dawning on them that it’s
going down the stretch now and it’s
almost over.” » uae
