THE DAVIDSONIAN

@ The Student Health Advisors

By SetH Davis
Health Advisor and Arts & Living Editor

As a health advisor at Davidson, I get asked
questions that range from the (somewhat) mun-
dane to the completely surprising. When my
peers ask questions, it makes my job much easier.
Health advisors deal in knowledge. Ask us a
question and you'll get an answer. From not
knowing one’s limits to not understanding the
risks of certain actions, most of the health issues
on campus arise from a lack of information.

This is not to say that Davidson students are
ignorant. In fact, as we are continually reminded
when we talk to other students, we are not facing
a dearth of knowledge on this campus. Our other
major role (in my opinion) is to reiterate what our
peers know already. .

In this spirit, we speak of responsibility and
clear thought. The principle “Know thyself”
certainly has relevance for this upcoming week-
end. First Night Down is approaching, and to the
freshmen in particular I-direct my advice this
week (though I hope that, in addition to being
helpful, it can stand for anyone).

I return, then, to “Know thyself.” There may
be, though I don’t know for certain, a number of
you who will make the choice to drink this week-
end. Among that number may be underage people.
To them, I must add the principle “Know the
rules.’ Underage drinking is illegal (yes, in North
Carolina one must be twenty-one to drink alco-
hol). There is no “cup rule,” by the way. If you
make the choice to break the rules, then you must
be ready to take responsibility for the penalties.
I’m sure that each one of you realizes that, and I
don’t want to preach,

So, please, I ask you to make an effort to
recognize your limits. If you make the choice to
drink, make sure you know a few things about that
choice. Please ask yourself why you are making
the choice. Before you take that first sip (or
guzzle, gulp, chug) of alcohol, look at yourself

Bill Giduz

and ask what your limits are. Really examine that
question. Nights spent hunched over toilet bowls
or in hospital rooms aren’t any fun.

This advice stands for any night that you
party, be it on the Court or off the Court. Patterson
Court can be a really fun place. You may spend
some of the most relaxing afternoons of your life
sitting on the porch of a house eating with your
eating house sisters or fraternity brothers. You
may spend some of the most energetic nights of
dancing in your life down at one of the Court
parties. But life on the Court has its risks if you
make certain choices regarding your health. These
days may be the most dynamic and rewarding of
your life. If the Court is for you (and it may not be),

‘please enjoy your time there.

The Court itself is in the midst of a changing
time. ‘There is a new (albeit interim) Patterson
Court Advisor—Dean Jeffries. Dean Jeffries was
gracious enough to talk to me about his role as the
Patterson Court Advisor. He wants to help the
Court maintain its “smooth running” and is busy
working on the coordination of First Night Down
and Self-Selection. For all the freshmen, Self-
Selection posters chock full of important informa-
tion will soon be up in the halls. Dean Jeffries
hopes to be a visible presence on the Court this
year, because he recognizes the value of being a
familiar face. He comes to the position of Patterson
Court Advisor with extensive experience in Greek
Affairs, having done his graduate assistanceship in
Greek Affairs at South Carolina, where he ran
USC’s equivalent of Patterson Court.

So, as First Night Down approaches, the Court
has anew, committedly active Advisor and a group
of people ready to see what all the hoopla is about.
To those freshmen excited about First Night Down,
I wish thema good, safe time. Above all, I wish you .
an exciting four years at Davidson. As Julia, one of
my fellow Health Advisors always reminds me,
these four years can be exciting and rewarding,
especially if one finds good friends. I wish you all, |
freshman or not, that kind of success:

ARTS & LIVING

Crossword

Hippity

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999 9

Hoppity

HIPPITY

HtOPPITY

lz 3 + x

|

6

12 43

1s

@ Mare: A Work in Progress
Faculty Show Opening, Article on page 11

Russ Warren

4 9 so z] sz v3 $7
|
= $7 s3
ico bi ba
63 | 64 6s
_t
By Trey Davis
Hippity Hoppity
Across Down
1. Fancy lighter 1. Shoots with a laser
6. Reprimand 2. Concept
11. Bikini half 3. Kettles
14. Cherish 4. Gifts
15. Blender setting 5. Poetic above
16. Took off 6. Breadths
17. Beatrix Potter character 7. Rubix’s invention
19. Sullivan and Mr. . 8. Globe
20. Attitude 9. Flower necklace
21. U2 song 10. Private eye, for short
22. Ben Folds Five, for one 11. Uncle Remus character
23. Recedes 12. Sound box
25. Kirk or Diaz 13. NC county
28. Spanish meats 18. Loots
31. Beer with a lime 22. Pearl Jam CD
32. Speak publicly 24. Spelling competition
33. Actor Leto 25. Reef material
34. Christian college org. 26. War god
37. They’re Mad? 27. En vogue
38. Spanish soups 28. Baby horse
39. Newspaper item 29. Soprano solo
40. Sugar-free soft drink 30. TV adaptor
41. Singer Merman 31. Kind of crusader
42. Strike down 33. Deere and Doe
43. Far from the coast 35. Location
45. Singer John et al. 36. Colorado Indians
46. They’re from showers. 38. Celebrity
48. Salamander’s cousin 39. Unnecessary:
49. Mimicked 41. “Telephone Line” band
50. Black or Dead 42. Cut away
51. Abets 44. Flanders from The Simpsons
55. Rose-rose connector 45. Tear’s partner
56. Alice in Wonderland character 46. Augusta’s state
60. Neither’s partner 47. Word with salts
61. Televised 48. Deprivations
62. Author Cussler 50. Plant-part
63. They’re between els and ens 52. Heron relative
64. Bombards with junk e-mail 53. She sings 29-down
65. Union pioneer Chavez 54. Mon or mob ending

56. “That ____ then, this is now.”
57. With it

58. Famous Gershwin

59. NCAA component

