A microscopic visitor wre¢

, You wake up feeling drained of all energy

despite having just slept.

Routine?

Right?

Maybe! Loe.
It could just be a lack of sleep, maybe a hangover,
but what if it is something else? What if that
fatigue is the greeting card from an unexpected
visitor—a friend that you really don’t like to hear
from. I am talking about those little friends that
manage to invade our systems and wreak havoc on
our bodies. Yes, the flu-bug!

This is brief recollection of sojurn with my
little friend.

DAY 1: Rather than getting up, I do the dreaded
deed of grabbing the alarm and resetting it. Pre-

the pillow like a dead weight, Beep BEep BEEp
BEEP! It seemed like only a few seconds had
passed since I reset the alarm, yet the clock’s digits
indicated that 2 hours had thus passed. Slapping
the clock, I rolled off of my bed, my feet hitting the
floor with a thud. Oddly, a sharp pain shot from all

of my joints. Geez, I did not hit the floor that hard.”

Walking around my room, each step seemed to
create a new wave of pain. The hair on my arms
standing on end as each movement of my body
disturbed the air. A chill raced through my frame
causing me to tightly fold my arms.

I showered, got ready, and passed on break-

fast. The next four hours were filled with various:

delights of wanting to rip right out of my body.
Everything I did seemed to cause pain: sitting
down, writing, picking up my bag. I managed to

sumably not a good idea. My head falls back onto procure some tylenol which seemed to abate some

Go Go Gadget Task Force

“MOM! Davidson's been marketing itself again!”

After learning about our fair college’s plans to “disseminate” its “message,” whatever it ends up
being (indeed), I feel compelled more than anything to squeal. Did you know that there was a marketing
task force in place, dedicated to getting the word out about Davidson, projecting its image and whatnot?
Thanks go out to Editor Emeritus Michael J. Kruse, without whom neither I nor the remainder of
Davidson’s student body would likely ever have known. ,

What does the college hope to accomplish by making large-scale efforts to promote itself? How
is it, again, that they plan on doing this? It’s one thing to tell the world what Davidson College is and
where it’s located; relaying an accurate portrayal of the school is another goal entirely. Why? Davidson
is a “thing-in-itself.” ;

Thing-in-itself: An object as it is (or would be) independently of our awareness of it; the noumenon.
As Kant showed, we cannot know things-in-themselves but can only postulate their nature from what
we know about observable phenomena. — “A Dictionary of Philosophical Terms and Names,” http:/

le.delphi.com/gkemerling/dy/t.htm#thin

In other words, how are people to know Davidson — I mean really know Davidson — simply from
their exposure to “observable phenomena” (i.e. whatever information the task force chooses to impart
upon the masses)? They cannot — it’s impossible. Only the students, those who live and breathe
Davidson on a day-to-day basis, can have an intimate knowledge of what this school is like. We pay
witness to all aspects of Davidson College life, but even we could not describe them to others so as to
make their impressions of Davidson half as vivid or accurate as ours. They are left “postulating our
nature.” [certainly was, even after visiting Davidson twice as a prospective (not “perspective,” as Ihave
seen this term so often misspelled by students). My early impressions of what Davidson would be like
bore very little resemblance to what Davidson has ended up being. ;

Is the fact that Davidson will invariably fall short in its quest to portray itself fully and accurately
reason alone to abandon its marketing efforts? Notatall. Ican’timagine anything wrong with Davidson
helping certain people, specifically employers, make defensible albeit rudimentary judgements about
this school — that Davidson is “good” rather than “bad,” that Davidson is “significant” rather than not,
etc. There is a difference between Davidson College and just about every other college in North
Carolina, and it’s important that some people be able to make that distinction. | Most of the people
that need to know how we stack up against the “competition,” however, already do. Chances are that
if someone doesn’t ask “Where’s that?” when you tell him or her that your son or daughter goes to
Davidson, they'll either mention how smart your progeny must be, or what a great school he or she’s
attending. My high school physics teacher once.told me that Davidson is the “Harvard of the South,”
as they say; I’ve not yet heard anyone in or from Davidson call it that. Although Mr. Boyd’s impressions
are hardly sufficient reason to assume that those of all others are similar, I must agree with Mr. Jackson.
Davidson College does not have an “imaging” problem.

Liberal arts colleges do. :

I fear the day that I might walk into a job interview with a resumé bearing the name “Davidson
College” and look inferior when compared witha student from UNC, USC, or wherever, simply because
his says “University” and mine says “College.” The untrained mind might more quickly align Davidson
with Catawba or Elon or any number of area colleges than it would compare us with Duke or UNC. They
are, after all, universities, and we are buta college. What’ s the matter with us Davidson students? Didn't
we have good enough grades to get into universities? I can just see the misinformed trains of thought
leaving the station. As confident as I am in Davidson’s current reputation, surely there must be those
who aren’t familiar with Davidson at all. And they could be dangerous.

If this is a problem for Davidson, then Amherst, Williams, Swarthmore, and the rest of them face
the same difficulty — the curse that we are “colleges,” and that in some people’s minds, “college”
implies “obscure.” ;

Davidson College exists to educate people. Historically, those people have been men and women
of high standards — valedictorians, student body presidents, community service coordinators, etc. —
and we’ll continue to attract these same types of people, with or without any crafty marketing ploys. To
the extent that-marketing efforts, especially in the Charlotte area, could not help but bolster potential
employers’ and patrons’ awareness and opinions of Davidson, the task force fights a noble crusade.

Borrowing a phrase from President Vagt’s sorority decision, would the marketing initiative
“jeopardize imprudently something as vital to Davidson as the caliber of its students?” Probably nét,
but it depends on what criteria we use to judge a student’s caliber. SAT scores? Class rank in high
school? Cultural awareness? Davidson attracts and accepts unique individuals who have something
else to recommend themselves besides an impressive test score or two — something that I admire. I’ve
known two people who applied to and currently attend Harvard University. Both chose Harvard because
Harvard was #1. To each, being #1 academically was the most important thing in life. Trust me,
Davidson — you didn’t want these two students, and you’re better off without too many like them
applying here. The last thing that I would like to see Davidson become is a cutthroat school that people
chose to attend just because of its stellar ranking in some random magazine. People that choose
Davidson do so not because of something so remote as its ranking (#11 this year — next year, who
knows’), but because of its locale, or its campus, or the people, or the professors, or a particularly strong
department. If Davidson were ever at the top of every high school senior’s list, I sincerely hope that
would be for the right reasons. In this regard, as long as Davidson ain’t broke, don’t fix it. I’m not sure
how envious Davidson should be of Harvard students’ “caliber.”

Davidson’s failure to tout itself would not constitute death. But at the risk of seeming showy or
immodest, go ahead and give marketing a whirl — as long as you promise not to turn Davidson.into
another Harvard. No one wants to see Davidson robbed of its essence.

Waly hetistey

of the pain. In fact, by the end of that class, I felt
fine. I went about the rest of my day worrying
more about hurricane Floyd and its predicted
course than about my morning.
By late evening, one of my friends stopped
and asked if I was alright.
M-Sure, feel fine, been running around and I have
not eaten yet, but aside from that feel fine!
F-Are you sure?
M-Seriously, I feel fine!
F-You feel really hot, let me take your tempera-
ture. [know I am being motherly, but humor me!
M-Alright, mom!
So I headed on down to her apartment and

’ had my temperature taken. A minute or so later,

I was informed that I had a temperature of 101.

Great!

Well, there is not much that I can do about
that is there now? (Sure there were a million and
one things that I could do, but what was the
realistic answer?)

I thought about my situation and realized
that I had work that needed to be done and it really
didn’t matter if I was sick or not, the world was
not going to stop because I hadacold. As the wee
hours of Wednesday morning passed by, I real-
ized how much easier it was when you were sick
during high school. (Granted, I realize that being
sick is nota welcome aspect of anybody’s life, but
during high school it was not that hard to catch
back up.) Even if you missed prolonged periods
of school, it never caused one to think about the
long term repercussions.

Eventually, I made it back to my apartment
that morning, checked the weather and saw that
hurricane Floyd had missed Florida, but now
appeared as if it was heading straight for Char-
lotte. ‘I was happy that it has missed my family in
Florida and slightly excited and unsure about its
present course. I took some more tylenol and
went to bed.

DAY 2: awoke with the familiarity of one thing,
pain throughout my body. Indeed, the little micro
organism or virus that had decided to prey upon
me found me suitable for another day.

The shower felt more like pins and needles
pricking at my skin than a cleansing ritual. |
finished getting ready, took some more tylenol,
had breakfast, took a mega vitamin, and grabbed
a few more tylenol before I headed off to class. I
knew that it was probably not the smartest thing
to do, going to class and feeling like a car had just
run me over, but I would rather use those sick
days for extended vacations.

In class all I could think about were the
minutes till I could make my exit. I found it hard

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

ks havoc on John’s week

to concentrate with my body feeling like a hot
water bottle leaking. Afterwards, with the limited
amount of energy, [headed to the store and stocked
up on orange juice and cold medication. I was
going to be ready for whatever was to come my
way, a 500 mile wide hurricane or a microscopic
virus. I-prepared for the next day, making sure all
of my bases were covered, e-mails to professors
(in case I missed class) as well as doing as much of
my reading that I could(in case I made it to class),
Finally, I checked the status of the hurricane, it
was suppose to hit sometime in the night, I took
some tylenol, some cold medicine, and went to
bed.

DAY 3:Waking up, I felt better, or so I thought.
Hurricane Floyd had not canceled classes, in fact
it was absolutely beautiful. The day passed rather

_ uneventfully. Hmm, maybe my little vistor packed

up and left. Yet as the clock approached 9 PM, I
started to feel like dirt again (funny this was right
around the 12 hour mark for the cold medication,
they certainly have those capsule times down).
Indeed, my unwelcomed guest had not left, but had
merely been on hiatus for a few hours.

There was no need to check the status of
Floyd, I did not care anymore. I loaded up on
tylenol and cold medication and went to bed.

DAY 4: I did not wake up for class on Friday, in
fact I slept through most of the morning.

Did I feel better?

Not really sure.

Did I feel worse? ©

Not really sure.

To use a favored Davidson English word, I
was in the liminal state of feeling good and bad. |
eventually got ready around | something. Made
sure that my paper was handed in by 5. I had
something to eat and then I just sat around.

And here I sit the evening of first night down
my senior year. Having weathered the storms of
three before, this would be my last. What am I
doing? Yup, | am writing this editorial because I
know that if] go out tonight I willend up inaneven
worse condition. Trust me, I don’t want to repeat
these past few days. They have not been that bad,
but I don’t want to invite my little friend for any
extended visits.

So I hope everybody had a good one! In the
grand scheme of things, it is just two nights!

Vues Danucarly L

Letter to the Editors
The View from Alum

The “Kruse Spotlight” (September 13 Davidsonian) usually shines into all corners of this ancient
institution; but it does not necessarily illuminate the whole picture. That is, my views on the “marketing”

of the College did not get a full airing.

Of course, Iam delighted that Davidson has become a truly national liberal arts college of high rank.
However, Iam not thrilled over the idea of the College trying to be all things to all people. Nor do I desire
that Davidson—" unknown to so many”—be near the top of every high school senior’s list. Nor does it
concern me that Michael’s “Northeast-centric peers” think he is on the moon. And, as for local yokels,
let them continue to confuse the town with the county,

In a real sense, I want Davidson to remain a secret to be discovered by students of high academic
achievement from all socioeconomic backgrounds. So far as I am concerned, Davidson College does
not have an “imaging” problem.

A marketing “task force,” without the personalities and perspectives of faculty and students? Ye,
gads! If there is not a coherent, premeditated projection of the College out there—after 160 years—it
is because a succession of administrators over the past two decades have consistently watered it down.
In particular, I have in mind the pursuit of every secular trend.

Kimmel and Cable and Giduz have it right: “Davidson’s job has been to teach and to educate, not
to market.***Itis embedded in the culture and history of this institution not to getreal showy.***There’s
sort of a Southern modesty.”

Quoth Vagt: “A significant portion of the people of Charlotte don’t see Davidson as part of the
Charlotte community.***It’s absolutely critical that there’s some appreciation there of what and who
Davidson is.*** With respect to our peers, we’ re late to this party.” This is a problem? Come on, Bobby!

Now, that I have written the above, do not lump me with “old school Davidsonians” who allegedly
think Vagt embodies “Mr. Wrong.” Far from it. His varied background makes him a unique tie to the
real world for the College. As a citizen, I value both his association with the Big Apple’s financial
recovery, and his knowledge of Russia—truly in need of a Felix Rohatyn task force.

Yes, Davidson has been very confident with who and what it is. The need should not now be felt
to go “out there” and impress others. There is no extreme need to “market” Davidson College, just
because “everybody else” is doing it. To overdo it would be to die.

William E. Jackson, Jr. °57
