a te

» 2
Baseball steals two from Ga. Southern

run came on a Joe Dawson home run with two outs
Staff Writer in the seventh. Over the last 18.2 innings, Self has
not issued a walk.
“Every time he is on the mound I think we are
going to win,” said Sloan.
The right-handed pitcher has also struck out

first in his collegiate career.

The hitting was contagious throughout the
line-up: eight and nine batters, center fielder Tom
McGintee and second baseman Cassidy Lundin,
batted a collective 12-21. McGintee has raised his
average 98 points in April to .286 on a 16-34

base and scored some important runs.”

The Wildcat defense looked just as spectacular—

two of their past four games have been errorless.
“The left side of our defense looked great,”

said Coach Cooke. “‘ We continually made solid

plays.”

Davidson baseball turned in their best week-
end performance of the season, winning two of
three in a weekend series against perennial confer-

ence power Georgia Southern. The ‘Cats outhit

the Eagles in each of the three games while posting -

4-1, 8-6, and 10-4 victories.
The Wildcats have won four-of their last six
conference match-ups as they

attack.

“McGintee and Cassidy really set the table
for the top of the line-up against Georgia South-
ern,” said senior catcher Kurt Davis. “They got on

Wes Self (5-7) continued his dominance over
opponents from the mound. Self narrowly missed
his second shutout of the season on his way to a
complete game victory. Georgia Southern’s lone

15 batters in his last 14 innings pitched.

“The boy was bringing cheddar,” said Davis.
“He must have been pumping 87-88 mph this
weekend.”

Yet the biggest vic-
tory against GSU (26-20, 11-
12) came from the arm of
junior Jamie McDonald. In
the 8-6 victory, McDonald
broke a personal 15 game los-
ing streak.

“It was anyone’s

game in the second game of
the doubleheader, and Jamie
did everything we could ask
for,” said Sloan.
His losing streak
might have continued with-
out the heroics of Fritz Porter
in relief. Porter replaced
McDonald in the seventh in-
ning leading 7-6 with one out
and runners on second and
third. After an intentional
walk, Porter forced Georgia
Southern into an inning end-
ing double play to preserve
the lead.

Parvin .pitched the
ninth to record Davidson’s
first save of the season, pre-
serving McDonald’s victory.

“(McDonald) has
had chances to win this sea-
son and we couldn’t get the
job done for him,” said Sloan.
“We finally pulled one out for
him.”

push for a trip to Charleston
with a spot in the conference
tournament. The victories
move Davidson (9-31-1, 8-

-16) ahead of Appalachian
State to ninth in the Southern
Conference standings, nar-
rowly behind VMI for the fi-
nal playoff position.

“We're real hot,” said
junior Stuart Sloan. “Every-
one in the line-up is hitting.
Our starting pitching is doing
their job to keep runners off
the bases, and our relief staff
is coming in and shutting the
door.”

And Sloan is perhaps the
hottest of them all.

Over the weekend, the
Wildcats’ first baseman was
stupendous, collecting eight
hits in 13 at bats including
four home runs and three
doubles.

His weekend power
surge earned him a nomina-
tion for this week’s confer-
ence and national player of
the week. Sloan currently
leads the team with nine home
runs and 17 doubles, while
hitting a solid .325.

“Tt was just a reaction,” — Le
said Sloan. “I saw the balls and they went. I don’t
know how I hit them. Three were off fastballs.
The ball was just going out for me.”

Freshman Trae Fletcher and the big hitting
sophomore Jeremiah Parvin also hit home runs
over the weekend. Fletcher’s long bomb was his

Ports. fOr Tibet theante , pl : :
ing the strong arms of Ryan Stroker (left)
and Wes Self (right), the Wildcats picked up a crucial pair of
late-season conference victories this past weekend, making
their pitch for the final Southern Conference Tournament spot.

Davis could. not
agree anymore. “He has been
pitching so well of late. He finally got the win to
prove it in the stat book.”

Davidson will play at 3:00 in Wildcat Park
against Wake Forest on Tuesday before their im-
portant home stand against Wofford College.

Men’s Hoops Team Selected to Compete in 1999 Preseason NIT

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

While it’s still a long, long way: off, members
of the Davidson men’s
basketball team have already begun thinking about
spending next Thanksgiving in New York City.
Madison Square Garden, to be more precise. That’s
where they’ ll end up if they win two games in the
1999 Preseason NIT, a tournament they were just

uled for November 15-16 and November 17-19,
will be played on the home campuses of various
participating teams. The four teams which survive
head to Madison Square Garden for the semifinal
round on November 24th. The championship
game is slated for November 26th. Davidson’s
exact opponent and site should be officially an-
nounced sometime in June.

represents a tremendous opportunity.

“Only a select number of teams get this
chance each year,” says McKillop. “We intend to
represent our conference well.”

“Just being in this tournament is unbeliev-
able,” insists Bergmann. “We havea shot to make
it to Madison Square Garden. By making a good
impression, we can put ourselves on the map, and

tournament comes also a great responsibility.

“We'll have to be ready earlier,” explains
Kosmalski.

“We'll have to pull everything together right
away,” adds Bergmann. “But by getting moti- ,
vated for this, we’ ll be able to boost our confidence
early. We'll be even better prepared to play big
names like Duke in the early part of the season. In

recently invited to for the first time in program
history. :

“Being invited is a great honor,” says Wild-
cat head coach Bob McKillop.

“It’s obviously a prestigious tournament,”
adds junior guard Jeff Bergmann.
“T’m really excited about it,” states junior power
foward Landry Kosmalski. :

The tournament’s first two rounds, sched-

“Most likely we’’Il face one of the marquee
teams in the tournament on their home court,” says
McKillop. “That’s how it usually tends to work.”

“It’s probably either gonna be Kentucky or
Maryland since they’ II want us to play someone in
the Southeast,” says Bergmann. “I would love to
face Kentucky.”

“IT wouldn’t mind Maryland,” opines
Kosmalski.

earn some serious respect.”

“We’re looking to gain notice and some at-
tention,” echoes Kosmalski.

Besides Maryland and Kentucky, other top
names in the tournament include Ohio State, Utah,
Arizona, Notre Dame, Tulane, and Pennsylvania,
Rounding out the field are Fordham, Hofstra, San
Francisco, Siena, Kansas State, Arkansas State,
and New Mexico State.

the past, we haven’t been challenged enough in the
pre-season.”
Like the other Wildcat hoopsters, Bergmann

has much more than a one game-and-out scenario
on his mind:
_ “It’s not enough just to smile about being
there and frame the invitation. We need to make
something of this. Hopefully as the time draws
closer, everyone will properly appreciate the mean-

All the Wildcats agree that the invitation With the privilege of the invitation to the _ ing of it all.”

PLAYER OF THE WEEK:
Wes Self

Congratulations on graduation go
out to the Class of 1999
Davidsonian Sports Staff:

BASEBALL

Brian Mayerhofer

f Bro Krift
Self tossed a complete game Stephen Cefal
victory giving up only one run ears ie ada
without walking a batter as ae y Yee, (4 Tripp Cherry
the ‘Cats knocked off tradi- Seniors Amanda Fleck, Linda Rothemund, and Katie Williams
tional conference power- (who rank, Ist, 2nd, and 4th on the Wildcat all-time scoring leader list) | THANKS FOR YOUR WORK,
house Georgia Southern. lead the Wildcats against Duke in Durham AND BEST OF LUCK IN

at 7:00 PM on Wednesday evening. FUTURE PLANS.

