THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Bit Gipuz
College Relations

Vic Fleming, an innovative judge who pre-
sides over 700 DWI cases per year in Little Rock,
Arkansas, will present a program entitled “Alco-
hol 151 - Circle Life, Not Death” at Davidson
College on Thursday, February
18.

ignorant. They don’t know, and they don’t know
that they don’t know.”

What they don’t know is how to regulate their
own intake of alcohol by using simple mathemati-
cal principles. He wants to erase that ignorance.

Fleming’s presentations focus on risk analy-
sis and ‘“‘mega-information.” He uses music, hu-
mor and videotape to bring home the message,

“Stay in control of

The public is in-
vited to the program,
which begins at 7

- p.m, in the Cham-
bers Gallery. His pre-
sentation is part of a

Alcohol misuse is the number one factor
in date rape, and is a factor in two-
thirds of violent campus behavior

every situation.”
A pro-
lific writer and
speaker, Fleming
has made his pre-
sentation at more

series of

talks and exhibitions
during February that comprise the College’s Alco-
hol Awareness Month.

Fleming, a Davidson alumnus now working
in the Little Rock municipal judicial system, makes
frequent public presentations in a personal cru-
sade to “curb binge drinking insanity.” When
sentencing DWI offenders to fines, jail and reha-
bilitation, Fleming also talks to them about their
crime. He finds that “most drinkers are double

than 30 middle
schools and high
schools in the Little Rock area. He has more
recently begun speaking at colleges, since binge
drinking kills 40-50 students per year on America’s
college campus. “Kids are falling out of windows
and off roofs, drowning, and just going to sleep
and never waking up because of alcohol poison-
ing,” Fleming said.

Moreover, Fleming said that alcohol misuse
is the number one factor in date rape, and is a factor

Innovative judge will discuss the math of

in two-thirds of violent campus behavior, half
the physical injuries suf-
fered by students, and
30% of academic prob-
lems.

In. his presenta-
tions, he takes a light
approach to the heavy .
topic, citing actual court-
room dialogue, such as
the defendant who told
him, “Ijust wanttothrow -
my mercy on the court,”
and the Little Rock col-
lege student who, when
asked if he was going
east or west, replied,
“I’m from California, I
don’t know the differ-
ence.”

Fleming’s program
is focused on avoiding
the dangers of alcohol
poisoning through accu-
rate tracking of the alcohol content of beverages

@ Ju

and personal blood alcohol content. He notes that
the surest way to avoid a DWI
citation is not to drive at all
after drinking, but those who
do drive should know how to
calculate blood alcohol con-
centration (BAC) so they can
stay off the road when it nears
0.075. His presentation will
cover the mathematical calcu-
lations of figuring BAC and
also the speed with which al-
cohol is purged by the system.
~ Finally, he will emphasize to
& his audience the importance
S of the “Titanic Principle.” He
© explained, “As long as you
¢ take it in faster than you can
= get it out, you'll get progres-
sively more under the influ-
ence—and sooner or later,
you'll sink!”
For more information on his .
presentation at Davidson, call
the Student Health Center at 892-2300.

Physics web software expands curriculum

By COLLEGE RELATIONS

Physics professor Wolfgang Christian is tead-
ing his colleagues worldwide toward more effec-
tive use of technology to teach their discipline.
The judges of the ninth annual educational soft-
ware creation contest sponsored by Computers in
Physics (CIP) magazine reaffirmed that fact by
presenting Christian with its first-ever “Grand
Prize” for his latest developments in physics soft-
ware.

But it was

electromagnetism that are accessible to anyone
around the globe via the World Wide Web. Phys-
ics major Michael Lee ’98 was one of only two
student winners in this year’s contest for.another
Web-based program, “Optics Bench.”

The judges chose to award Christian a “Grand
Prize” because of not only the content of his
software but also its concept, organization, and
development. “This approach seems to be one of
the best methods for creating interactive displays
for delivery on the Web,” the judges wrote. “We

suggest that read-

hardly the first time
Christian’s work
has been recog-
nized. Entries from
Christian and his
Davidson under-
graduates have been
winners in the con-
test for the past five

Christian’s prize this year recognized his
development of “Efield” and “Poisson,”
a collection of interactive simulations of
force fields and electromagnetism that
are accessible to anyone around the globe.

ers visit
Christian’s Web
page to learn
more about it.”

Christian’s ap-
proach is novel
because it inte-
grates interactive,
customizable ex-

years straight and
for seven of the nine years that the contest has been
held. No other college or university has such a
record.

Christian’s prize this year recognized his
development of “Efield” and “Poisson,” a collec-
tion of interactive simulations of force fields and

ercises accessed
through the World Wide Web into physics instruc-
tion. Christian and two collaborators, Dr. Gregor
Novak of Indiana University and Dr. Evelyn
Patterson of the United States Air Force Academy,
received a $304,000 grant from the National Sci-
ence Foundation last fall for development of this

instructional concept into a complete physics cur-
riculum.

Christian explained that their approach gives
students the information necessary to solve phys-
ics problems in an interactive simulation, rather
thanina written text
question. Students

Christian and his students have so far devel-
oped about 25 of their exercises, which he calls
“Physlets,” and students access them via the World
Wide Web. The exercises are written as Java
computer language “applets” so that they can be

accessed via all popu-
* lar computer operating

solve the problem
through observa-
tion of motion, ap-
plication of appro-
priate physics con-
cepts, and measure-
ments leading to

Christian and his students have so far
developed about 25 of their exercises,
which he calls “Physlets,” and students
access them via the World Wide Web.

systems, and they are
not copyrighted so that
other instructors can
copy and modify them
to fit their own course
curricula.

“Efield” and “Pois-

mathematical cal-
culations.

Such an approach is remarkably different
than typical novice strategies where students at-
tempt to mathematically analyze a problem before
qualitatively describing it. Teachers often call this
approach “‘plug-and-chug” because it is character-
ized by the lack of:conceptual thought during the
problem solving process. Christian believes that
requiring students to consider the problem qualita-
tively, as is done in multi-media-focused prob-
lems, has a positive influence on their problem-
solving skills and conceptual understanding.

son” enable students to"

' view the forces or field
lines on a collection of charges; the path of a
particle injected into crossed electric and mag-
netic fields; the dynamics of a particle subject toa
constant field plus another point charge; and the
potential or field lines of a capacitor, a dipole, and
a diffuse charge distribution placed inside a metal-
lic Faraday cage. In each case, students can
interact with the simulation, moving the charges
or other elements or varying their properties, with
immediate results.

Continued on page 5

Creative Writing Award Contests for 1999

ee —

The Department of English
Announces a Competition for

THE 1999 VEREEN BELL MEMORIAL AWARD

oe ee,

Yaron,

fiction prose should be submitted to the Charles Lloyd Award Competition.) The WRITING AWARD
Vereen Bell award carries a first prize of $100, a second prize of $50, and a third prize

of $25. At the discretion of the judge, awards may be given in different genres

The Charles E. Lioyd Award is given a lly to that ber of the soph , junior,
or senior class for excellence in non-fiction prose. Pieces submitted for the Award may
include both formal, scholarly essays and personal essays. Awards may be made in

The judge for the 1999 Vereen Bell Award is the distinguished writer, Fred Chappell.
both categories.

Fred Chappell was born in Canton, North Carolina. He receive a B.A. and an M.A. from
Duke University, and honorary degrees from UNC-Chapel Hill and Spring Hill College
The North Carolina Poet Laureate, Fred Chappell has published sixteen collections of
poetry and six novels, He is the recipient of the National Institute and American

The judge for the 1999 Charles E. Lloyd Writing Award for non-fiction prose is the
distinguished writer, Lauren B. Smith, Lauren B. Smith ('85) has an M.F.A. in Poetry,

demy Award in Li , the Bollingen Prize in Poetry, the T.S. Eliot Prize, and an MA. in Comparative Literature, and a Ph.D, in English Literature all from the
ip from the W Wilson and among other University of lowa. Co-editor of Swaying: Essays on Love, and the
awards. Fred Chappell is a professor at UNC-Greensboro, where he has taught since forthcoming Love in the Global Village: interview Essays on intercultural Families, she

is an assistant professor of English and Women’s Studies at Eastern lilinois University.

1804. At Davidson, Lauren 8. Smith twice won the Vereen Bell Writing Award.
Fred Chappell will present the Awards and read from his work at a special ceremony in
the 900 Room of the College Union at 7:30 p.m. on April 20. All students who enter the

competition must attend the Awards Ceremony.

Lauren B. Smith will present the Awards and read from her work at a special ceremony
in the 900 Room of the College Union at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 23. All students
who enter the competition must attend the Awards Ceremony.

bmissi
Procedures for Submission Procedures for Submission
1, Alll entries should be turned in to any member of the English Department by 5: 00

p.m. on Thursday, February 25. 1. Entries should be turned in to any

than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday, Febfuairy 25,

of the English Dep Yt no later

2. Students may submit work in more than one genre. Page limits are: 15 pages i ji
for fiction, Mb ccuen tor pede), and, in the case of drama, no more than one. 2. Hitvo hitb sh bel es aa geal ae ners pages,
act. Collections of poems and stories should be given a title. Manuscripts contain three essays.
submitted for previous competitions may be revised and resubmitted if they were 3. No on he i + Nara eaticgee: x al
not awarded prizes. the title of the ript should be hed on a piece of paper.

3. ‘Sha fry of Bho ber faut nck appear 0 tho. menue Name, address,
phone number, and the title of the ript should be d on a sep
piece of paper.

The Department of English
The Department of English °
FOR CREATIVE WRITING Announces a Competition for ‘Anncunoss a Compeiion for
The Vereen Bell Memorial Award is given annually to that member of the senior, junior,
or sophomore class who has submitted the best work in poetry, fiction, or drama. (Non- THE 1999 CHARLES E, LLOYD THE 1999 R. WINDLEY HALL

WRITING AWARD FOR FRESHMAN

ane Vooey eaten ver Be d to the of the fre class

who submits the best work in fiction, poetry, or non-fiction prose. The award carries a
first prize of $50 and a second prize of $25. fete Enea) Oa eats 0 Hare Se one
genre.

The judge for the 1999 R. Windley Hall Writing Award is the distinguished writer,
Michael Chitwood. Michael Chitwood, the author of three books of poems, including
most recently The Weave Room, holds degrees from Emory and Henry College and the
University of Virginia. He has taught at and hout the South,
including Lynchburg College, Wake Forest University and Elon College, and is currently
on the faculty of UNC-Chapel Hill. He is the past President of the North Carolina
Writers’ Network. :

Michael Chitwood will present the Awards and read from his work at a special
ceremony in the 900 Room of the College Union at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday, March 30.
All students who enter the competition must attend the Awerds Ceremony

1. Mentectons sree ve berned 2) $0 are atvenne of fe Engnen Dapertsert by
5:00 p.m. on Thursday, February 25.

2. Students may submit up to 15 pages of poetry, fiction, or non-fiction prose; work
of different genres may be included in a single portfolio, for @ total of no more
than 15 pages.

3. The name of the writer must not appear on the manuscript. Name, address,
phone number, and title of the should be inch ona piece
* of paper.

e

