THE DAVIDSONIAN

DaAvip ROSENBERG

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

Gettin’ jiggy with Spring Break

here are times when the pungent smell of
| suntan lotion prevails over that of ‘any
perfume. It reeks of relaxation and leisure
— an awful combination if work is imminent and
finals are near. However, for one week in every
college student’s life, finals are a distant thought
and schoolwork is barely a reality. IT’S SPRING
BREAK ’99, BABY. YEAH!!! It’s a time when
hardbound books only come within reach of stu-
dents as pillows sandwiched,between sand and a
rolled up t-shirt. “Spring Breakers” only put spiral
notebooks to use to shield their face from the sun
during a beach nap if they can’t find their sun-
glasses.

Certain ingredients are very important for
any quality spring break and destination may be
its most weighty aspect. For the distinct and well-
educated majority, Spring Break will remain
always a dreamy trip, characterized by the sunny
reward of a break from a stressful academic year.
But uncomprehensible to the majority, some oth-
ers still opt to ski for the March break. To tell the
truth, Spring Break isn’t snow in Aspen, but rather
sun and sand in Miami. Skiers had all of Winter
Break to take their snowy trip, and if they missed
it they should not make it up three months later.
Spring Break tan lines shouldn’t be those around

eyes made from ski goggles, but rather those from
bikini tops and wet bathing suits.

Tan lines can do much to decipher a spring
break. The absolute worst and most embarrassing
color contrast sits on the left shoulder of any
driver. As cars move
‘south and mercury

developed this well-respected theory. after watch-
ing Jaws at too young an age. A fodder line is an
arbitrary line made up by the last row of frolicsome
people farthest out into the ocean. Hopefully,
sharks will be content nibbling on those play-

happy frisbee throwers

rises, any “true”
spring breaker will
remove his or her
shirt, leaving only a
bare chest or bikini-
top. Too much of a
seat belt tan line re-
veals the blunder of

For the distinct and well-educated
majority, Spring Break will remain
always a dreamy trip, characterized
by the sunny reward of a break from
a stressful academic year.

out by the far sand bun-
ker before they come to
a sharkaphobic person
like myself. Though
even the thought of
shark fodder may send
some to the mountains
and far away from the
sea, if sea-goers keep

spending too much
time in the car and
not enough time on the beach. Driving to Mexico
only gives spring breakers cramped legs, wasted
vacation time, and wicked stripes across their
chest.

But I have one problem with the beach.
Sharks absolutely terrify me. For all I know, my
next step into the ocean might be right into the
mouth of a 20-foot Great White. For this reason,
always strictly,adhere to the Fodder Line Theory.
My older and more knowledgeable cousin Chris

their faith in the Fodder
Theory, they will not
have any problems, especially if those frisbee
throwers are overweight enough so that they some-
what resemble sea otters. Seriously, check the
fodder line out and make sure a large 60 year old
woman too big for her red bathing suit is further out
into the ocean than you are. There won’t be any
problems with the sharks.

Aside from a fear of sharks, skiers claim that
their cold weather beats the heat of a southern
vacation spot. But I'd rather get hit with a stray
coconut than a snowball if it means I was lounging

under a palm tree in Florida instead of drinking
hot chocolate outside a ski hotel. I much prefer
jetskis in the West Keys to snow skis Colorado. It
just doesn’t rhyme in the cold,

Many have different ideas as to what consti-
tutes a spring break. A friend of mine from high
school is driving up to New York for the week to
hang around town, and another guy I know found
a cheap e-saver to L.A. and he’ ll go see the sights
there. So city wandering is another option -
Chicago and Philly are fun places to go, too.

It sounds cool. ButI don’t know. There ain’t
much shark fodder in NY from what I hear, let
alone temperatures above 50. I kind of like the
hundred degrees down by the Carribean Sea.
Surely skiiers and city goers alike will have a
good time. But please — don't get me wrong,
Chitown got it goinon, an New York is the city that
we know don't sleep, and we all know that L.A and
Philly — they jiggy. But on the sneak, Miami's
bringing heat. For real (Will Smith).

So for myself, and any other “true spring
breaker,” anywhere warm is the place to be —
close enough to drive to without getting leg cramps
and far enough south that the temperature hits
three digits more, often than two.

Bienvenidos a Miami.

KRISTEN. TAYLOR

y mom always says that if you have to
M eves for something before you do

it, you shouldn’t be doing it in the first
place. And so I have read the disclaimer at the
beginnings of the illustrious senior duo’s articles
with many misgivings. Not only do they entitle
their articles with such humble headings as “The
one you have been waiting for,” but also they are
determined to eclipse all of the other contributors
to the Op-Ed section, such as myself, with the title
“The only column you ever need to read.” Perhaps
they should change the verb “need” — and in my
opinion even that is pretty questionable.

To begin with, the authors assume that every-
one who reads their articles will be insulted enough
to consider writing a “rebuttal,” as they call it.
Being second semester seniors themselves, I would
have thought they would be more in touch with

The wa

Davidson’s apathy towards writing for the school
newspaper. Then again, maybe the kids that
attend school here have learned the art of time
management and
realize that actu-

However, the Max Nelson-ish advice is con-
sistently good; I think the writers are smart enough
to realize their column will be positively boosted

by the popular-
ity of the afore-

ally trying to re-
fute an issue ad-
dressed in their
column is a waste
of — wait. Are
there issues ad-
dressed in their

I sometimes wonder why they complain that
no one reads their column when they insult
half the student body in each article, as lam
sure to be alluded to in their next column.

mentioned indi-
vidual. I some-
times wonder
why they com-
plain that noone
reads their col-

umn when they

columns?
Hmmm. .. I must
say I enjoy their column a great deal — it’s like
watching Letterman, only with Davidson person-
alities, and of course, like its late night counter-
part, some parts inevitably fall flat.

insult half the
student body. in
each article, as I am sure to be alluded to in their
next column.

The most disturbing aspect of the disclaimer
is the authors’ apparent multi personality disor-

I see it...

ders.

Their February 2 article denied that the
opinions expressed were even theirs. Boys, let me
clue you in to a great Davidson secret — I hear
* every student has ten free sessions at the Counsel-
ing Center which would be a great start towards
working on those little voices in your heads and D-
E-N-I-A-L. ..

Regardless, I have proof that at least one
person other than me reads and enjoys their col-
umns, and, in fact, he has taken their excellent,
not-so-subtle plugs to date Op-Ed authors. Thanks
Dave and Erich — just please take credit for your
words from now on. This fine publication refuses
to publish anonymously, so you should stand
behind every word under your byline. And who is
my mystery guy? Well, this is Davidson, folks —
it shouldn’t be too hard to find out.

