By Bro Krirr
Sports Commentary

Davidson lost on Saturday, but
they had to be happy.

As the team left the court suf-
fering their second loss. in three
games, the Appalachian student sec-
tion poured onto the court in jubila-
tion. They danced, hugged and
cheered, but theirexcitement seemed
to,miss the point.

Sure they just won the North-
ern Division title, but no one held
their index finger high over their
head declaring supremacy. No one
chanted “‘We’re number one.”
Instead they continually pointed to-
wards the Davidson fans. They
taunted the 300 dressed in red and
black as they left Varsity Gymna-
sium. A win over Davidson was all
they wanted.

The Mountaineers had lost nine
of the previous ten and the last five
to the Wildcats. ‘Coach Buzz
Peterson called the game “‘the big-
gest win of his career.” The biggest
of his career! Could anything make
a Davidson fan feel more pride in a
loss?

Yet the game seemed inconse-
quential to the Wildcats. Sure they
would have won the title for the
fourth straight year, but how impor-
tant is such a feat?

Floor general Ali Ton was
cleared to play on Saturday, but with
the first round tournament bye al-
ready. ‘guaranteed, Coach Bob

tire league and an improbable win
against the Wildcats demands the
students to rush the court.

Teams all year have made the
Wildcats a target and throughout
conference play they have been the
hunted. Fans star the game on the
schedule, making sure they attend.

So Davidson please don’t hang
your heads. You are still the team to
beat in the Southern Conference.
Just ask Appalachian State.

On Saturday, the Mountaineer
fans forgot the last dance is the best
dance. .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By STEPHEN CEFALU
Sports Writer

Appalachian State head coach
Buzz Peterson called it the biggest win
of his career.

Before a packed house at Varsity
Gymnasium in Boone last Saturday af-
ternoon, Peterson’s Mountaineers
humbled the ‘Cats 71-64, and thereby
claimed exclusive rights to the 1998-99
regular season crown in the Southern
Conference’s North Division. It marks
the first time since 1994-95 that the
‘Cats have finished anywhere but atop
the North Division at season’s end.

The win grants Appalachian State
(19-7, 13-3) the #1 seed in the bracket
opposite that of their counterparts from
the South Division, ‘the College of
Charleston, in this weekend’ s Southern
Conference tournament. For Davidson
(16-10, 11-5), the loss means that they
will likely face the College of Charles-
ton a bit earlier than anticipated in the
tournament. Barring a loss in their
respective quarterfinal match-ups on
Friday, Davidson and the College of
Charleston will square off in the semi-
final round in Greensboro on Saturday.

“Tt was a hard fought, nip and tuck
affair in a tremendous basketball envi-
ronment,” said Wildcat head coach Bob
McKillop in Saturday’s post-game.

Matt McMahon’s buzzer beating
three-pointer at the end of the first half
gave Appalachian State a 41-34 edge
heading to the locker room. McMahon
finished with 17 points on the day,
shooting 9-19 from the field.

Inthe second half, the ‘Cats rallied
and were able to grab the lead thanks in
large part to the offensive contributions
of low post specialists Stephen Marshall
and Chadd Holmes. Marshall finished
witha game-high 18 points despite play-
ing only 18 minutes due to foul trouble.

Holmes contributed eight points, fin-
ishing 4-5 from the field.

For the second time in three games
foul calls plagued the “Cats, who lost
the services of not only Stephen
Marshall, but Davor Halbauer , Landry
Kosmalski and Ben Ebong for signifi-
cant portions of time in the contest due
to the high frequency of whistles, The
Cats were given only 11 free throw
opportunities in the game (of which
they converted seven), while the Moun-
taineers were granted 31 (of which they
knocked down 19).

That being the case, the ‘Cats still
held their fate in their own hands with
just over a minute to go in the game
when they led 62-60. A three pointer
that would have given Davidson acom-
manding five point lead instead rattled
and then fell off the back cylinder of the
rim, and moments later, Matt
McMahon’s own three point attempt
went straight through the net to give the
Mountaineers a 63-62 edge. This edge
the Mountaineers would not relinquish.

“T thought some of our three point
shots selections were premature,” said
McKillop. “When the game was ripe
for the taking, we simply didn’t take it.”

One extremely positive note for
the Wildcats on Saturday was the per-
formance of freshman point guard

Michael Bree. Filling in for Ali Ton, ,

who was still nursing an eye injury
suffered back on February 13th, Bree
totaled 10 points, six assists, five re-
bounds, and four steals.

“Michael played an excellent bas-
ketball game. He really grew up to-
day,” said McKillop of the Sligo, Ire-
land native. “It will help us in the
tournament to know we have two point
guards we can rely on,”

McKillop firmly believes his gritty
1998-99 squad has yet to have its final
say.

“This is a smart basketball team, a
team learns from its setbacks and ma-
tures. There was no question about
effort today. Their effort was superb.”

Besides Matt McMahon, the

OMikgtdgod

Davidson has been without the services of the nation’s
third-leading assist man, Ali Ton, for the past week.

Mountaineers had three other players in
double figures on Saturday. Marshall
Phillips finished with 14 points, Tyson
Patterson had 12, and Cedrick Holmes
contributed 11.

Ton-less ‘Cats take Terriers

By Bro Krirt
Staff Writer

Three agonizing bounces upon the
rim with six seconds on the clock de-
cided the outcome of a 67-66 victory
Monday night for the Davidson Wild-
cats against Wofford College.

Terrier guard Ian Chadwick re-
ceived an outlet pass and pounded up
the court with one man to beat, Michael
Bree. Down by two, 65-63, he stormed
by Bree and laid the ball off the
backboard.

Ithit the iron... bounce. .. bounce.
. . bounce and then caromed out.

Davidson’s Emeka Erege stretched
for the rebound and Wofford’s Colon
Largent immediately fouled, sending
Erege to the line for a 1-1 opportunity.

@Anna Judy

Erege connected on both, scoring
Davidson’s last points and sealing the
victory.

“We’re lucky,” said Coach Bob
McKillop. “A great shooter like
Chadwick missing

Saturday’s loss to East Tennessee State.
He had started 82 of the previous 83
games for Coach McKillop’s squad.
Doctors’ orders kept Ton from
making the trip to Spartanburg.
Listening to the broadcast over the

radio, Ton re-

that shot. Have you :

ever seen a closer “We’re lucky... have ceived a bith

miss?” ; in oac
Despite com- you ever seen a McKillop’s post

ing offa disappoint- closer miss?” game ere

ing loss on Senior : : ly

Day and playing Coach Bob McKillop you taught

without the service
of starting point guard Ali Ton, the
Wildcats hung tough in Johnson Arena.

“It seemed so easy to feel sorry for
ourselves,” said McKillop. “We didn’t.
That was a tremendous effort tonight.”

Ton was unable to play after fall-
ing victim to a ruptured eye in last

Michael (Bree)
well,” he said.

Bree definitely listened to his
mentor’s season-long teachings.

One of four Wildcats in double
figures, Bree scored 11 points in his
first career start. He looked obviously
nervous in the game’s initial minutes,

but he settled down in the second half to
control the game’s rhythm while lead-
ing the offensive attack.

.His newfound patience and confi-
dence helped Davidson overcome an
eight point half time deficit.

In the second half, the Wildcats
effectively passed out of low post double
teams, continually finding the open man,
slashing to the hoop for the easy lay-in.

“We didn’t have Ali and our of-
fensive movement was as good as all
year,” said McKillop.

Landy Kosmalski led all players
with nine rebounds as Davidson com-
manded the boards pulling down 45 to
the Terrier’s 24. E

More importantly, Kosmalski
scored his one thousandth career point.
He became the first junior since Janko
Narat in 1994 to accomplish this feat.

OTS and Duke University offer field-oriented,
scence based undergraduate semester abroad
and summer programs.

Fall Semester; Aug 31 - Dec 13
Summer Program: May 31 - June 28

CREDITS MAY BE TRANSFERREO FROM OUKE UNIVERSITY

For more Information comtact OTS # 919 G84-5774
e-mail enao@acpub duke edu> © httoviAwww.ots.duke.edu
Application deadiines © Falk March 10 and Summner:Feb 26

.

A comsortinn of andversbiies paivtding ivialvnllp Uv rack,
nesoaweh ord (he regpomuihiy ane of neater! resob ives Le Die Opies,

