THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kristen Taylor

Fashion is where you find it

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 1999

ivilized society legally forces us to wear
( clothes. Yet on acertain weekend in Janu-
ary, members of this campus, (specifi-
cally freshmen male members), defy this restric-
tion. Ironically, on Self-Selection weekend, the
fashion focus switches to what you aren’t wear-
ing. Stripped of J.Crew disguises, we see each
other in a different way. Beauty can be found in
the resulting nakedness, as we focus on people
and not the pieces of fabric that encase their
bodies.
When I was five, my favorite thing to wear
was a pair of beautiful red jellies. Whenever I
wore them I felt like a princess. In the innocence
of childhood, we come closest to realizing the true
function of clothes. To quote Ben and Jerry, “If

it’s not fun, why do it?” It matters little where you
bought it or how trendy it is, and still less how
much you paid for it. I’ve always been amazed at

get your sweater from the Gap?” I shook my head
in confusion, wondering if I should recognize the
question as a middle school code for a hole in the

the intrin- sleeve. It
sic value a seems to
tiny bit of me that
cloth in the all too
collar | What better canvas exists than your own body? soon
holds. where
Two-dol- y ou
lar dresses bought
on a vin- t hie

tage clothing store rack can look like a million
dollars, and nobody’s the wiser. The clothing you

consider the most flattering should theoretically,

also be your most valuable.
One day in sixth grade I was asked, “Did you

sweater becomes why you bought the sweater.
Newsflash! The invisible Fashion Police admin-
istering silent, swift justice to offenders is a myth
perpetuated by specialty store conglomerations
and mall empires.

I think that all clothes are, in and of them-
selves, simply costumes that reflect the personal-
ity of the wearer. What better canvas exists than
your own body? Similar to the way you choose
what goes into your body, you also choose what
goes onto your frame. Don’t let your clothes wear
YOU.

Best of luck as you embark on your fashion
odyssey. I hope your quest ultimately leads you to
discover a unique and original vision of style.
May your wardrobe possess the pizzazz of Kirstyn
Leuner’s light-up ring, include the spunk of Max
Nelson’s pink pants, encompass the individuality
of Kyle Erickson’s Hawaiian shirts, and like last
spring’s production of HAIR, embrace all the
colors of the rainbow.

Moritz and Yann

Sex, lies, and videotape

TTENTION READERS: This column is
written strictly for entertainment pur
poses. We have taken it upon ourselves to
become the “love doctors” for Davidson’ s student
body. We invite you to send in problems, con-
cems, or funny anecdotes concerning personal
»xperiences (or those of your close friends), at
moritzandyann@ hotmail.com, and we will re-
spond with advice and/or sympathy pertaining to
your predicament.
P.S. We promise to reveal our true identities
at the end of the semester...

This Week’s Topic: “sex, lies, and videotape”

Picture this: it’s Friday night, and you’ ve already
chugged a couple of beers. Unbeknownst to you,
it'll be the night of your life—captured forever on
videotape. However, one small detail escapes
your memory: WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED?

We'll skip the ugly details of the explicit footage
the tape contains, and get down to the nitty-gritty:
HOW THE HELL DO YOU GET RID OF IT?
Unfortunately,
one not-so-

STEP 2: Consider your options: A) do you

have a potential career ahead of you? Will you be:
able to bypass Career Services senior year and

head straight for
Tinseltown? Or, B)

friendly friend of

was your debut less

yours apparently
witnessed your an-
tics firsthand, then
helped themselves
to the tape. They
then proceeded to
invite folks over

Obviously, you’re going to have to
sacrifice alittle dignity and embark
on mission almost-impossible:
TAPE RECOVERY.

than golden, and
prime material

for you to become
“clown of the
week”?

STEP 3: If B, go
see your friend (the

for a Saturday af-
ternoon screening

not-so-friendly one)

of your “artful”
cinematic debut. Obviously, you’ re going to have
to sacrifice a little dignity and embark’on mission
almost-impossible: TAPE RECOVERY.

STEP 1: Pick your face up off the floor.

onthe pretext of just
wanting to hang out.
STEP 4: Send them on a Saturday evening

beerrun, and while they’re gone, ransack the room
and search for the evidence. (While you're at it,
get some get-back material...)

STEP 5: Escape without being seen by
roommate(s), and destroy the tape (this should
be obvious). Or, keep the tape for your personal
viewing pleasure and admire your work.

STEP 6: Get on with your life as if nothing
happened, and when people ask you about your
tape antics, say “Tape deez!”, then smile and say,
“Seriously, what tape?”, with a puzzled expres-
sion on your face.

With the recounting of this event, we hope
we have given not only a glimpse of improper
drunk person’ s etiquette, but a way to cope in case
you slip...Stay tuned for next week’ s drama—you
never know what can happen when you're caught
with your pants down in a drunken stupor.

Taylor Herbert

Break With Tradition

lease, give me a moment of your time. I
P promise to reward you with information
that could help you change the way you
think about life. Iam writing about Alternative
Breaks. Many of you are now probably looking
down now with incredulous expressions and
visions of a Spring Break filled with ski slopes or
expansive beaches, but I beg you not to be hasty
and dismiss my article. Davidson students plan
to lead two Alternative Breaks this year, an
Urban Plunge and a trip to the Emmaus House in
Harlem. Last year, I went with seven other
Davidson students on an Urban Plunge in Wash-
ington, D.C. For me, this was a life-changing
experience. Let me explain. ;
An Urban Plunge according to Michael
Stoops, the director of the National Coalition for

the Homeless, is “when economically-privileged .

people dress down, empty their wallets, and
spend time on the streets as ‘poor’ people.” On
our trip to Washington, my seven fellow plung-
ers and I spent 48 hours homeless on the streets.
We went to soup kitchens, we slept on the side-
walk, and we begged for money. We also bonded

with some of the most memorable people I have
ever met.

I would like to dispel some rumors surround-
ing the Urban Plunge that I have encountered at
Davidson. The Urban Plunge’s primary goal is
education, not ad-

You can know what it’s like to watch people
cross the street when they see you so that they
won’t have to look at you. You can experience
what it’s like to try to talk to someone and not
even get the basic respect of eye contact. Youcan

experience what it’s

venture, and cer- like to have a home-
tainly not “slum- less person offer you
ming.” You go in = leftovers or read you
order to be more | The Urban Plunge’s primary goal a poem.

educated about the is education, not adventure, and Aboveall, youcan
problems _ that ° 6, peat 3) start forming a habit
homeless people certainly not slumming. of compassion that
face every day. will last a lifetime.
You don’t go to When you return to

know whatit’s like
to be homeless. You can’t. You can’t know the
prospect of never again having the ease of mind

that comes from a loving family or a place where ‘

you don’t have to sleep with one eye open.

You can only begin to imagine what it’s like
because no matter how bad it gets you can always
tell yourself that, ina few hours, you’ ll be at home
in the shower with a warm bed waiting for you.

your normal life and
buy a homeless person a meal you can more fully
appreciate the warm feeling that spreads from
your heart to every fiber in your body. When you
offer a homeless person a friendly smile, you can
remember how the rare passing smile you got
from a pedestrian on your plunge made you feel.
The Urban Plunge won’t teach you what it’s like
to be homeless, but it will give you an emotional

education that stays with you longer than any
lecture you attend here at school.

If the Urban Plunge is not for you or if you
would rather spend your week in service, another
group plans to, volunteer at the Emmaus House in
Harlem, New York. The Emmaus house offers a
wide variety of services to the poor and homeless
including substance abuse counseling, GED and
computer skills training, a soup kitchen, and a
clothing room open to the public. It houses 40
people regularly and has separate facilities for
volunteers. Although I have not personally taken
part in this trip, it should be a great time. I
recommend it to anyone interested.

Alternative Breaks are designed to provide
you not only with a new experience, but they
should also get you involved with the issues pre-
sented to you on your trip. An Alternative Break
is not just a volunteer vacation; it should ideally be
a life changing experience. If you want to.try one
of these remarkable experiences orif you’re merely
curious, come to the Alternative Break meeting on
Wednesday, at 7:00 in the Union Home Room.

PVT A SC SSS SS SS Sit ST heh ica
