2

S

Ss Fr Oo Rh FF SS
LJ E D A

SS. 3

Wildcats finish century with back-to-back 8-win seasons

By Mike ANDERSON”:
Staff Writer

In 1998, the college football world took note
as tiny Davidson College stormed onto the scene
with an unprecedented 8-2 record, earning the
Wildcats a place among the nation’s top five I-AA
non-scholarship football programs. But that was
last year.

Those selfsame Wildcats entered 1999 with—
for the first time in decades—lofty expectations.
But the team was to face a number of stumbling
blocks this time around: a vastly improved sched-
ule, the loss of a number of stars to graduation, and
a newfound reputation as “‘a team to beat” in the
region.

Tim Landis’ Wildcats met and exceeded those
expectations, delivering yet another 8-win season
with a 38-22 victory over I-AA opponent Austin
Peay. on Saturday. With the victory, Davidson
matched its school record of eight wins, and the
Class of 2000 became the winningest Wildcat
class ever, with 25 victories to their name.

The Game

Powered in part by a dazzling defensive dis-
play, the Wildcats pounced to a 25-0 lead.
Senior Eric Ferguson delivered the opening blow,
capping a 68-yard scoring drive with a 37-yard
scamper into the end zone.. Ferguson gained 162
yards on the day, and became Davidson’s all-time
leading scorer.

Freshman phenom Daniel Hanks added a
point-after, extending the Wildcat lead to 7-0. The
place-kicker from Rome, Georgia tied a pair of
school records on the day—notching a record-
tying three field goals to lift his season total to
nine, another school record.

And then defensive coordinator Tripp
Merritt’s squad took control of the football game.
Junior defensive lineman Blake McNaughton
scooped up an Austin Peay fumble in the end zone,
pushing the Wildcat lead to 14.

The teams exchanged punts until Davidson
stopped Austin Peay cold’on a 4th down conver-
sion early in the second quarter. Shaun Tyrance
capitalized on the defensive stop, marshaling his

troops downfield to set up Hanks’ first field goal of
the day. Davidson 17. Austin Peay 0. :
Austin Peay quarterback Brian Baker bounced
back with a vengeance, driving all the way to the
Davidson 11 before Wildcat freshman linebacker

- Jim Carney intercepted a short pass and then tore
91 yards into the end zone, giving Davidson’s -

defense its second touchdown of the half.

The Governors would score twice more, cut-
ting the lead to 28-15, before Davidson added 10
more points in the third quarter to put the game
away. Hanks chipped his second field goal of the
day, and then Tyrance connected on a 76-yard

‘ touchdown pass to Mike Tarver.

The defensive unit thwarted Austin Peay at
every turn—reducing the Governors’ running game
to only 31 yards in 20 carries, while picking off
five passes (2 for Carney, | each for Ryan
Crawford, Adam Stockstill, and Terrence
Marshall). The defense ended the season with 28
interceptions, led by Ryan Crawford’s eight.

The Season

The °99 campaign started off. a, bit omi-
nously—the *Cats were obliterated by I-AA su-
perpower Morehead State 40-0 in the opener. That
loss sent Davidson spiraling toward a 1-3 start to
the season, but then Landis & company embarked
on what seems to be becoming an annual tradi-
tion—a seven game win streak to finish the sea-
son. “I can’t say enough about our play as a team
this season,” said Landis following the game. “All
the components of this team contributed to our
success—from the offense to the defense to spe-
cial teams. If one was down, another picked us up.
That was true the entire season.”

“It feels really great to know how far the
program has come in the past couple of years,”
said junior defensive back Ryan Hutto. “A lot of
people stepped up. Our team unity has been out-
standing. All the guys play together well, and no
one cares who gets the credit.”

Harry Truman was fond of saying, “It’s amaz-
ing how much you can accomplish when you don’t
care who gets ‘the credit.” Riding the crest of
Davidson’s most triumphant wave of success in
the program’s 101 years, the °99 Wildcats would
have made the late president proud.

@ Junior Katherine Lorenz bumps a set to her teammates during this
past weekend’s competition in Belk Arena.

- QUOTE OF THE WEEK ©
“We talked a lot about how
the girls four years ago only
won three conference
matches, and really focused

on the pride of possibly go-
ing undefeated.”

Head Coach Lisa Marston 6n how
the Wildcats used the lackluster
history of Davidson volleyball as
motivation to dominate its 1999
Southern Conference competition.

Tuesday, November 16

Men’s basketball in first game of Pre-season NIT vs. Siena**

Thursday, November 18-20

Men’s and women’s swimming at NIKE Cup East"

Friday, November 19

Women’s basketball at Boston College

@ Corey Crawford & the Wildcats’ biggest upset of the season was a
28-27 win over Georgetown, the first defeat of a D-I team since 1981.

Volleyball finishes 16-0 in
SoCon; No. 1 seed in tourney

By Brab STEVINSON

Staff Writer

In late August, the Southern Conference vol-
leyball coaches chose Davidson to win the South-
ern Conference this season. On Saturday night,
that prophecy was fulfilled with a 3-0 sweep over
the ETSU Buccaneers. The victory sealed the
Wildcats’ the undefeated, 20-0 march through its
1999 Southern Conference competition.

After suffering a non-conference loss last
Tuesday night to Winthrop (only the squad’s third
defeat of the season), the Wildcats rebounded to
take both weekend conference matches decisively.

“We lost to Winthrop, a team we swept
earlier in the season, in four,” said head coach Lisa
Marston. “We learned a good lesson from that.
We regrouped and talked about putting pressure
on teams when they begin to pressure us. We had
a great practice on Thursday and came out ready to
play on the weekend.”

Friday night the squad swept Appalachian
State 15-6, 15-2, and 15-4. Sophomore Jennifer
Ortega committed no errors while pounding 13
kills, a team high. Ortega’s performance, coupled
with stellar defense (Davidson held the Mountain-
eers toa .0O0O hitting percentage), gave the Davidson
acommanding victory over their first-round oppo-
nent in next weekend’s SoCon Tournament.

“We came out really aggressively against
them and used it as arun through for the first round
match,” explained Marston. “We got some other
people good playing time.”

If Friday night was impressive, Saturday
night was spectacular. With a 15-10, 15-8, 15-9
sweep of ETSU, Davidson became only the sixth
team in Southern Conference history to go unde-
feated in the SoCon, and set a new conference
record with twenty wins in a season. The victory
also gave the Wildcats a 28-3 overall record,
which set Davidson records for total wins and
winning percentage (.903).

Marston used the team’s improvement from
years past as inspiration. “We talked a lot about

7:00 p.m,

All Day

7:00 p.m.

Start of Southern Conference Volleyball Tournament (through Nov. 21 es

Davidson versus Appalachian State or UNCG

Saturday, November 20
Men’s basketball vs. Guilford

TBA

7:00

Boldface indicates home game
** at Loudonville, N.Y
* at University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C.
* at Western Carolina, Cullowhee, N.C.

.Georgetown beat Fairfield, and
| DAVIDSON beat Georgetown!

how the girls four years ago only won three confer-
ence matches and really focused on the pride of
possibly going undefeated,” Martson said. “The
girls were really pumped up to play a tough match,
and they played wonderfully.”

The third game of the match proved to be a
dogfight, as the Wildcats and the Buccaneers
began exchanging points early. ETSU fought its
way toa6-5 lead before Davidson’ s offense stepped
up. Freshman Kaitlyn Martin’s blistering serve
was the foundation of a 7-0 run. The Buccaneers
charged back, however, shrinking the deficit to
12-9, but they could not overcome Davidson’s
consistency. Freshman Roberta Quis’ made the
undefeated conference season official with her
game-ending kill.

Junior outside hitter Mara Mordini domi-
nated the match, scooping 12 digs to lead the
Wildcats. At times, the offense seemed to center
around Mordini as set-after-set was bounced her
way. She continually punished ETSU, finally
pounding them into submission with 18 kills, a
team high.

“Mara had a great match,” Marston elabo-

rated. “To get 18 kills in only three games .is
spectacular. Her performance was simply phe-
nomenal.”

Continuing the consistency that has marked
her play all season, Erica Schwartz again
quarterbacked Davidson’s offense. Seniors Gina
Lawrence and Ginny Quis led the Wildcats to
victory for the last time in Belk Arena. Both
seniors have started since their freshman year, and
Lawrence is currently fourth in the Sauthern Con-
ference in hitting percentage and blocks.

With a spectacular regular season behind
them, the Wildcats have set their sights on new
goals, namely winning the Southern Conference
tournament, which would mean,an ‘automatic bid
to the NCAA tournament. As the top seed in the
confernce tournament, Davidson will play in the
first-round Friday against the loser of Monday
night’s Appalachian State/UNC-G game.

WE WERE THINKING...
Davidson should be considered among the top 3
or 4 college football teams in the nation. Why?

Wisconsin is ranked No. 5 in the nation...
Cincinnati beat Wisconsin,
Troy St. beat Cincinnati,
McNeese St. beat Troy St.,
Maine beat McNeese St.,
Rhode Island beat Maine,
Brown beat Rhode Island,
Cornell beat Brown,
Dartmouth beat Cornell,
Lafeyette beat Dartmouth, «
Duquesne beat Lafayette,
Fairfield beat Duquesne,

Compiled by Mike Anderson

