8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

LLL LL ee TL ee ee MLE LE TN AT ET ET
IdnEgo — Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

IdnEgo are Freud’s psychoanalytic voices
that influence all relationship decisions. Id, who
represents the unconscious and licentiousness in
all of us, rarely agrees with Ego, who touts the
conscious and morally-aware course of action.
Tune in each week to kear them face off against
each other as they analyze your relationship and
provide counsel.

Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about
your relationship dilemma? Or have any com-
ments about their advice? Send your questions
and thoughts to: AskIdnEgo@ hotmail.com. All
inquiries will be kept confidential. (Please note:
All advice offered in this column is purely for
entertainment purposes and should not be con-
sidered professional clinical advice.)

Dear IdnEgo,

My ego is hurting! I just found out that one of
my fraternity brothers hooked up with this girl that
he knows I really like. I was out of town this
weekend playing football and apparently they got
together at a party. What really gets me is that when
I’ve talked about her before he has said, “I don’t see
what you see inher!” I’ve gota lot of thoughts about
how I want to handle this but what do you think?

Signed, Pissed Off
oR 2B KK

Dear “Pissed Off,”

This is such ado wrong but Id can’t really fault
your friend—actually, Id kind of likes the move.
while Listen, “All is fair in love and war” — or did
you forget? At this point, it’s war. You called dibs

and got screwed. Same etiquette applies here as
calling “shotgun” when getting into a car. Id says
revenge is sweet. Here are a few ideas. One, the
next time you run into this girl, say something like,
“Too bad about (your fraternity brother’s name)
testing positive” and then just walk away. Two, if
you know of someone that your friend likes—ask
her out: Even better, if your friend has recently
been dumped by someone, ask out his ex. Just
remember, don’t get mad, get even.

In your best interest, Id
SOR RR RK

Dear “Pissed Off,”
Damn! Ego just hates it when this happens!
Ok—look, it’s great that you’re out there playing

sports and Jearning how to be a team player.
Unfortunately, for you, it looks like the sports
involvement literally cost you home court advan-
tage, and you got hammered. But the good news
is it’s only half-time. You know how to com-
pete—ask her out yourself. Your fraternity brother
doesn’t own her—in fact, he’s told you he doesn’t
like her (which is a separate issue for you to sort
out with him). Give it all you have. Wine and dine
her (girls love that stuff anyway.) And if she says
no? Play fair and be a good sport. Forget about
her—there are plenty more out there. Chalk it up
to experience, know that you’ ve given it your best,
don’t hold it against your friend, and trust that
losing only smarts for a while. Move on, over, and
out. And, hang tough. You'll have your pick if
you’ re patient.
Your friend, Ego.

Mint Museum features blown glass exhibit

Press RELEASE

He is the American Maestro, the Pied
Blowpiper of Studio Glass. Dale Chihuly is one
~ of the three living American artists to have a solo
exhibition at the Louvre in Paris. His elegant,
physics-defying shapes can be found every-
where—a visual backdrop to the 1996 Academy
Awards, suspended over the canals of Venice or
prominently displayed in over 175 art museums

throughout the world.

Chihuly’s designs have taken the measure of
Charlotte’s Mint Museum of Craft & Design in
preparation fora 10-person team of installers. Four
tractor-trailer loads of blown glass parts will be
assembled into an exhibition to include a spectacu-
lar Macchia forest, a Persian Pergola, a sea of
Nijima Floats and the renowned Chihuly Chande-
liers. Dale Chihuly: Installations opens July 24 and
runs through January 16, 2000, sponsored by
Transolid, Inc. and AT&T, with additional support

Crossword

from the Jerald Melberg
Gallery, Davis Steel & Iron
Company, Inc. and 107.9
FM, the Link.

The nation’s governors
named Dale Chihuly
America’s first National

What’

WHAT s

Tee

i

=
4R OIGNW

\s

s your Sign?

Living Treasure for his role
in transforming a craft into
a vibrant art form. His
hometown of Tacoma,

Washington is building the International Glass
Museum, accessible by the Chihuly Bridge, a
pedestrian structure replete with glass installa-
tions. The Pilchuck School of Glass, which Chihuly
co-founded in 1971, attracts the world’s best glass
artists, enabling Seattle to rightfully lay claim as
the New Venice of glass production. The PBS
television special “Chihuly Over Venice” was the
first national broadcast in high definition televi-
sion (HDTV).

Everything about Dale Chihuly is outsized—
his custom-built equipment, his support staff of
130, the scale of his installations, and the spectacu-
lar forms that push the conceptual edge of art glass
beyond anything made anywhere in the world.

“He’s completely changed the perceptions of
what art glass is supposed to look like, taking it out
of the 19" century realm of symmetry and mimesis
and into the modern world of abstraction,” wrote
art critic Frank Green. “These flowing,.asym-
metrical forms dramatize the nature of glass in its
chaotic, molten liquid state.”

preakfast

The Soda Shop

Breakfas

Since 1951

t Burritos

yen “ub 230

French Toast

Omelets
Pancakes

By Trey Davis

What’s Your Sign?
Across Down
1. Model wodd

6. Cor or cotton

10. Quisenberry and Quayle

18, Pilots

19. “Whip It” group 9. Little bouquet
20. Russian author bom under fifth sign? 10. Car made und
22. Pestering insect 11. Stadium

23. Animal accompanying 10-down 12. Of ships

24. Cures

25. Split parts

29. Breathing bole

32. Suave and Johnny
33. Kind of catalog

37. Spanish love

38. Place to find John or Joel
39. Hawkeye state

40. American symbol
42. Clear away

43. Concise

44. Centerfolds, perhaps

13. Vegas feature
21. Musical notes

26. Peru city
27. Sci. subj

31. Bullfight yell

1. Animal accompanying 28-down
2. On the safe side
3. Carson replacement

14. Gold: Peter Fonda film 4. Chair

15. Male lead 5. Arranges in sorts
16. From the mouth 6, Canyon

17. Actress Home et al 7. Quadrilateral (

8. Black and white sweet

24, Medicare program
25. Animal accompanying 50-across

28. Car made under second sign?
29. Mercury model
30. Floor covering

33. Russian planes
34. Medicinal amount

@ classic Burgers |

104 $.Main St.

Dodqs ¥rics
sailkshakes

Eat-in Take-out

A Dale Chihuly exhibition is a theatrical
experience—a series of spectacles of light, color
and cascading forms that dazzle the eye and con-
found the imagination with technical wizardry.
Each exhibition is designed specifically for the
interior and exterior architectural space and light
at each site to allow viewers to interact with a total
glass environment.

The major series produced between 1964 and
1997 represented in the exhibition include the
“Macchia,” brilliantly multi-colored, flower-like
forms placed on pedestals ranging from four to 12
feet in height to create a “forest” in which visitors
experience the undulating vessels from various
viewpoints. The 30-foot long “Persian Pergola,”
an arbor with over 400 fanciful “Persian forms,”
immerses the viewer in the long deep patterns of
color shadows while walking underneath the ar-
bor. The “Venetian” series, a tribute to the art deco
glass of Venice, features huge vases and bottles
sprouting colored vines, leaves, and “putti,” little
boy figures resembling Renaissance cupids or
cherubs.

Other artistic series include
“Ikebana,” bulbous-base forms sup-
porting elaborate organic glass flora,
named after the Japanese custom of
placing flowers specifically to honor
guests. The ‘“Seaform” series suggest
the natural world and conjure visions
of splendid urchins and other fantastic
sea creatures. The “Nijima Floats,”
the world’s largest blown-glass pieces,
are magnificent orbs named after
Nijima fishing floats that often washed
up on the Pacific Northwest shores of
Chihuly’s childhood.

Dale Chihuly: Installations
was the starting point for Chihuly’s
most heralded series, the “Chande-
liers.” The very first chandelier was
created for the exhibition’ s debut at the
Seattle Art Museum in 1992 and has
been superceded by works more in-
dicative of the “Chandeliers” featured
in the 18-month, international project,
“Chihuly Over Venice.” The “Chan-
delier” is the artist’s greatest sculp-
tural creation, reaching 12 feet or more
in the length and weighing as much as

2,000 pounds. ‘An exquisite example,

abbr.)

er first sign’?

“

\s
ba
uy

" Served in a Contemporary
Rock & Roll Atmosphere ! "

‘ e@ Vhe |

Fe
ea

\

45. Kind of 35. Pitcher :
, 48. Cheam 36. Redeats . Wed. College N ight 4 from
49. Baseball's Moises | 38, Tavern 10% Off
$0. Disease under fourth sign? | 41. Indeed, poetically 0 5pm - 6pm Daily
57. Fak 42. Chany "s tires i
$5 Predkaastel’ henotienan | 44 rao wae Wit Suter 10: 10% Off all food item.
59. Sesame Street Mi t | 45.01
cea | Se Lake Norman, NC
61. Word ona shoppe sign | . 47. Sounds like a lion :
62. Delete | 48. Large water bird
63. Dirtiness | 50. Animal accompanying 20-across iE P oboatn  ——
64. Russian no | SL. Unsightly x d
65. Astro and King | $2. Computer term Lunch: Monday-Friday 11:30am:- 2pm Located Exit 28 off I-77, in front of
: A paste Fcaaag Dinner: Monday - Thursday Spm - 10pm Bi-Lo Shopping Center, Cornelius, NC
55 Ahetuative Friday, Saturday Spm - 11pm .
56. Dark breads = * Sunday 5pm - 9pm (Tel) 704-987-8080 (Fax) 704-987-8030

"Early Bird Special”

“Royal Blue Chandelier,” is on perma-
nent display in the lobby of the Mint
Museum of Craft + Design.

Chihuly enrolled in the first
glass blowing program begun in the
United States, studying under Harvey
Littleon at the University of Wiscon-
sin (Chihuly’s Charlotte exhibition
follows a retrospective exhibition of
Littleton’s work at the Mint Museum
of Craft + Design). After completing
a second Masters degree at the Rhode
Island School of Design, Chihuly won
a Fulbright Fellowship to become the
first American to study glassmaking
techniques on Venice’s Island of
Murano. At the celebrated Venini
factory, Chihuly learned the Italian
method of working glass in a team.

Chihuly returned to the Rhode
Island School of Design to head the
glass and sculpture departments. In

- 1971 heco-founded the Pilchuck Glass
School, teaching there in the summers

Continued on next page

