M

="? G6 et tT B-

oe «

Slagle marks 20 years of dedication to Davidson athletics

By Anpy LANoHA
Staff Writer

Noone since C.G. “Lefty” Driesell, the famed
basketball coach of the ’60s, has done more for
Davidson athletics than Charlie Slagle, who in his
twenty-year tenure as head coach has molded a
once small, undeveloped men’s soccer program
into a nationally recognized and respected institu-
tion.

“A lot of credit should be given to him,” said
Assistant Coach Jim Wright, who played for Slagle
in the early 80s and has paced the sidelines with
him for the last nine years. “His energy and
enthusiasm have been di-
rectly responsible for
the success of the
program.”

Entering the
1999 season, the
Wildcats were 188-Jj
183-30 under Slagle
and had posted a
winning percentage
of .500 or better 10
times. This season,
Slagle has picked up
7 more victories thus
far and guided his
team to victory against
such national power-
houses as Clemson and
South Carolina, but 1992, that
magical year the NCAA Divi-
sion I Men’s Soccer Champi-
onships came to town, shines
as certainly Slagle’s most
successful season.

Slagle had been re-
sponsible for bringing the
tournament to Davidson, where
it was to stay for the next two years,
and helping promote the event into the
national spectacle it is today. Slagle led
his team home to play in the ’92 national
semifinals in our own Richardson Stadium,
the pinnacle of a Cinderella season not to be
soon forgotten by the Davidson community,
in which the team finished with a 17-5-5
record and a No. 9 national ranking. The ‘92
season was not an'aberration, however, as
Slagle has coached three teams to first-place
regular season finishes (83, 94, ’95) in the
Southern Conference and won two confer-
ence tournaments (’92 and ’95).

His coaching ability and overall contribution
to collegiate soccer have brought Slagle national
recognition, including the 1992 NCAA Division I
Coach of the Year award. In 1993, Slagle was
presented the Bill Jeffrey Award, which is given
annually to the individual who contributes the
most to intercollegiate soccer. He has been named
Southern Region Coach of the Year twice (‘90 and
‘92), Southern Conference Coach of the Year a
record 6 times, and he currently sits as the Chair-
man of the Division I Coaches for the NSCAA
Coaches Association. In 1999, Slagle was se-

lected as one of four Division I representatives on

the NCAA Men’s and Women’s Soccer Rules
committee.

That Slagle came to Davidson without an
extensive soccer background only adds to the
magnificence of Slagle’s inspiring career. In fact,
Slagle, a member of Davidson’s Class of 1975,
wasn’t even a soccer player when he entered
Davidson as a freshman, but rather an All-Ameri-
can tight end out of Binghamton, N.Y. He only
turned to soccer after a knee injury ended his
football career. However, bad knee
andall, Slagle’s athleticism earned
him All-Conference honors as
a goalkeeper. So, given
his limited soccer

background be-
fore taking
over as

=>

= @
¢

coach in 1980, what is it

7) w about Charlie Slagle that

wy ~ has made him so success-
ful?

The short answer: his exceptional and totally
unique character.

For example, Coach Slagle brings an unpar-
alleled enthusiasm to almost everything he does.
Matt Spear, the captain of the 1992 team and now
an assistant under Slagle, echoed this sentiment,
saying that he has never seen a coach more in-
volved with his players in the game than Slagle.
“He feels every hit and every shot,” said Spear.
More thana few stories have resulted from Slagle’s
“enthusiasm” on the sidelines. Spear recalled one
such example of Slagle’s famous sideline antics,
describing a game against the University of Rich-

DANIEL HANKS

The freshman kicker from
Rome, Ga., booted a
career-long 42-yard field
goal this weekend in the
’Cats victory over
Randolph-Macon. Hanks
is perfect this season in 4
field goal attempts and
has scored 18 consecu-
tive PATs.

mond in which Slagle, so frustrated with the play
on the field, walked off to a stand of nearby trees.
He grabbed the trunks of two of the smaller trees,
one in each hand, and began shaking them vigor-
ously. “Coach was hidden so that all you could see
was the tops of these two little trees shaking,”
Spear chuckled.

In another incident, after his team missed a
shot in a 4-0 route of UNC-Greensboro, Slagle
slammed his foot down so hard that it went through

Original artwork by Jerry Ayers

the wooden bench. The team recovered the piece
of wood, signed it and gave it to him at the end of
the year. Now, anyone who visits Slagle’s office

spots the red piece of wood proudly displayed on’

his wall.- ©

Another thing that sets Slagle apart is his
vision. “It was his initiative to get lights for soccer.
It was his initiative to get the NCAA tournament
here at Davidson. He is a huge visionary that has
made the program what it is,” commented Wright.

Throughout the years, Slagle has had to build
a program that could compete with schools that
have far greater scholarship support and signifi-
cantly looser admissions standards than Davidson,
but he has always been able to see the potential in
players. Slagle has assembled good teams by de-

-veloping the talent in kids that other coaches

overlook. Arguably Davidson’s greatest soccer
player, Rob Ukrop, who led the Wildcats to the
Final Four, set a school record for scoring, and had
his No. 6 jersey retired, was a Coach Slagle find.
“Davidson was not my first choice school, but
Richmond and my other top choice passed me by,”
said Ukrop. “Slagle pursued me so hard and had
so much enthusiasm that I felt like I was a part of
the family, and I wanted to be a part of Davidson.”
No one is more competitive than Coach Slagle,
who his wife Nancy says “could be coaching
tiddlywinks and work just as hard to make ‘em
' champions.” Still, one could discuss Slagle’ s
accomplishments, his drive, his enthu-
“ siasm, or his vision all day,
but he would never
come close to
what Slagle val-
ues in the pro-
gram and what
truly makes the
Coach special.
When
asked about his —
greatest mo-
ments, Slagle recalled
a slew of big wins in front
of big crowds, but when all
was said and done, it came
downto his players: “Watch-
ing my players grow up and
become men and enter the real
world has always been the
greatest experience.”
For Slagle, it has never been
just about winning. “I was a
player’s coach when I walked in,
and I am a player’s coach now,”
he said. “I believe in the Davidson
model of a student athlete. So, I try
to understand what my player’s are
going through, and I want to do ev-
erything that I can to make soccer a
positive part of their lives.”
Besides building a soccer pro-
gram up from the ground and taking it
toa place of national recognition, Slagle
has become.a well-liked and well-known
figure on campus. For years, he could be seen
roaming the campus at 5 a.m. delivering The
Charlotte Observer to students. His home has
served as the “Slagle Hilton,” as Mrs. Slagle put it,
for a host of his players who have needed a place
to crash for the night. Likewise, with his good
humor and a knack for storytelling, he captivates
and entertains everyone he meets.

Richard Terry, Slagle’s long time friend and
one of his first. players, best described Coach
Slagle and his contribution to Davidson: “Charlie
is a high profile personality. People love to talk
about how fun and how funny he is: But the most
important thing is that he has had a meaningful
impact on a lot of people’s lives, and his time here
has been an incredible contribution to the pro-
gram, the school, and the community.”

Indeed, Coach Slagle has done remarkable
things for Davidson, and for his 20 years of service
to our college community, we are thankful.

“his time here has been an incredible contribution to

the program, the school and the community.”

-Former Wildcat soccer player Richard Terry on how Coach Slagle has
impacted the Davidson College community over the last 20 years.

“He is the John Madden of college soccer.”

-University of South Carolina coach Mark Bearson describing Coach

Slagle’s sideline antics.

“He's one of a special breed of coaches."
-Indiana University head coach Jerry Yeagley on Slagle.

Men’s swimming vs. Wingate - 4 p.m.
Women’s swimming vs. Wingate & _ 4 p.m.
N.C. State

October 29
Volleyball vs. College of Charleston - 7 p.m.

October 30

Volleyball vs. College of Charleston - Noon
Football vs. Hampden-Sydney - 1:30 p.m.
Men’s soccer at Richmond - 7:30 p.m.

October 31
Women’s soccer vs. Western Carolina -1 p.m.

Bold indicates home game
All volleyball games in Belk Arena
All swim meets held in Cannon Pool
All soccer and football games at
Richardson Stadium

