“_ O
| N

R
D

SS

2 =.

» 4

Lady Wildcats confident about upcoming hoops season

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

When the Wildcats step onto the Belk Arena
floor for their first exhibition contest against Smoky
Mountain, a little over eight months will have
passed since the ’98-’99 squad fell to Appalachian
State in the Southern Conference Championship
contest. By nearly all accounts, the wounds from
that loss have healed — but the hunger has not
subsided.

Davidson enters their final campaign of the
millenium coming off an 18-10 season that saw
John Filar’s Wildcats set a new standard for the
women’s basketball program. Last year’s Wild-
cats delivered a handful of program “firsts,” among
them: a pre-season #1 ranking in the coach’s polls,
3 victories over Furman (a perennial powerhouse
whose ‘98-’99 edition showcased pro prospect
Jackie Smith), a victory over the #1-seed UNCG in
the Southern Conference tournament, and an ap-

~ pearance in the tournament’s championship game.

This October, however, bodes no pre-season
top rankings for the Lady "Cats. After losing the
star-studded class of 1999 (with a trio of four-year
starters, Jamie and Kerry Brown, and Jess
Montrella), the Southern Conference coaches rated

Davidson #6 (tied with Appalachian State) amongst
the division’s ten teams. UNCG garnered first
place honors. “I think our team really took it as a
little bit of a slap,” said Head Coach John Filar.
“Conference coaches have given our team even
more incentive than we had before. It puts us back
in the old role of being a hunter rather than being
the hunted.” .

When asked what characteristic of this year’s
squad will best help compensate for the loss of
three superstars, the first word out of every player
and coach’s mouth is the same: chemistry.

“The chemistry this season is the best that it’s
been in my four years,” Jen O’Brien proclaims.

Speaking toa gathering of Southern Confer-
ence reporters in Greenville a few weeks ago, Filar
predicted, “I think Davidson has to be looked at as
adark horse. People have dropped us dawn to sixth
in the polls, but there is a lot to be said about
chemistry. We may not be as talented, but we
could very well be a better team than last year’s.”

Filar attributes much of that chemistry to the
team’s European tour this past August. The Wild-
cats spent 11 days overseas, and returned with a
flawless 5-0 record against top teams in England,
Denmark, Sweden, and Norway.

“The Europe experience was just tremen-
dous. The athletic administration made a huge
commitment to our program when they helped us
make this trip. You’re out of the country; the only
people you know are your teammates; you go
places you’ve never seen...the whole experience
brought them closer. ”

Just weeks before the opening tip, only two
players have secured starting positions—senior

’ captains Jen O’Brien and Katy Kamp (see adja-
cent article), The three remaining spots are en-

' tirely up for grabs, and could remain as such deep
into the season. “We’ve got two important parts
coming back from last year, and some outstanding
young ladies to put on the court with them,” said
Filar. “Last year the starting lineup was pretty
much set every game, this year could take on a
different look from night to night.”

Last season, the starting five was all but

decided before the first day of classes. This
scenario could have created an unintentional but _
still unbridgeable gap between the team’s major
contributors and those individuals relegated to
more of a “support” role. O’Brien agrees that
this uncertainty is a hidden advantage for the
squad. “It’s made it a lot more of a feisty atmo-
sphere. We claw at each other in practice; we
fight for loose balls. It’s just made everybody
that much more hungry knowing that they can
crack the lineup at any given time.”

One of the deepest positions for the Wild-
cats will be alongside O’Brien at the shooting
guard. Davidson returns last year’s sixth-man,
Janna Magette, the Wildcats’ mosteffectual threat
from behind the three point line. Magette hov-
ered among the nation’s leaders in 3-pt shooting
early last season, and finished the year with an
impressive clip of 37.6% behind the arc.

Another key guard for the Wildcats will be
senior Megan Gleason. Gleason never busted
out during her shortened junior season, but re-
tains every bit of the punch that made her a key
contributor during her sophomore campaign.
Gleason will remain one of the Wildcats’ key
outside threats, and will be called upon to spell
O’Brien at the point.

Junior .JoAnne Hassel and sophomore
D’Erica Taylor are also expected to contribute at
the guard spot. Teammates praise Taylor’s de-
velopment as a multi-faceted scoring threat over
the off season and Hassel’s consistent work ethic
and attitude. “JoAnne shows that she possibly
has the quickest first step to the basket of any-
body I’ve ever had here,” lauds Filar. “She also
made a concerted effort to become an awfully
strong defensive player.”

At the three-spot, sophomore Leah Uhernik
and Kelly Copland seem to be the front runners
for the starting nod. Copland’s slashing capabili-
ties on the court bring a flair akin to that exuded
by the Brown twins last season. As for Uhernik?
“Leah has the ability to create a lot of mismatches
on the court. She’s a 3-point threat, she’s a
slasher, she’s a rebounder,” says Filar. Another
key contributor as a forward will be sophomore
Bethany Schott. Lauded by Filar as one of the
team’s most capable rebounders, she also has
developed into one of the best post defenders—
and will be called upon early and often through-
out the season. Also expected to be a powerful
and immediate contributor, lone freshman Caro-
lina (Caro) Perez-Heydrich has quickly become
a popular member of the squad—both on and off
the court. “Her personality fits our team like a
puzzle,” says O’Brien.

The final opening remains at the center
position, where a pair of 6-3 juniors are expected
to bring an impressive combination of strength
and speed to the five-spot. Jessica Heath, whose
clutch basket at the buzzer against Greensboro
last March propelled the ’Cats into the champi-
onship game, brings a commanding presence

_and remarkable power into the paint. Heath has

acareer shooting percentage near 60%, and pulled
in 48 rebounds while averaging six minutes a
game last season. Kim Taylor, a four-year All-
State selection at Portsmouth Abbey, is perhaps
inch-for-inch the most talented all-around fe-
male athlete at Davidson. In addition to her
basketball honors, Taylor received All-State la-
crosse recognition at Portsmouth, and was a

three-time All-Conference soccer goalie. This
athleticism makes Taylor a powerful weapon in
Davidson’s fast-paced transition offense.

With the departure of the Class of 1999,
Davidson’s Wildcats have some enormous shoes

to fill. The trio notched over 39 points and 17°
rebounds per game last season, accounting for

over half of the team’s scoring and forty percent of
their boards. But the emphasis for the replacement
process is entirely on “team”—with players and
coaches confident that each and every athlete on
the roster is eager and prepared to embrace their
escalated role in this season’s squad.

The Captains:

O’Brien and Kamp to
cuide 1999-2000 Wildcats

By Mike ANDERSON
Staff Writer

The Wildcats’ heart and soul since her sopho-
more season, Jen O’ Brien has combined outstand-
ing play with consistency and a cool head at the
point. The senior will share the captain role this
season
with 671”
fellow se-
nior Katy
Kamp.
Head
Coach
John Filar
seems con-
fident en-
trusting his
squad into
thecapable
hands of
the duo:
“Jeon
O’Brien
and Katy
Kamp
bring avast
amount of
experience
to the start-
ing line-up
and leadership,” praises Filar. ““They’ re two of the
strongest players in the conference.”

Kamp enters her senior campaign as areturn-
ing starter, but will be looked to play an even

_. greater role this year. “Katy has had very good

years in the past,” explains Filar, “but this year she
has to carry the ‘go to’ load.” The senior from

-Stevensville, Mich., has played in every game

since joining the Wildcats in 1996, accruing 738
points and 374 rebounds in 81 games. Kamp, a
psychology major, had her best season as a sopho-
more, averaging 25.2 minutes, 5.7 rebounds and
10.6 points per game as the team’s sixth man. As
a starter in 1998-99, Kamp was among the team’s
top five in scoring (9.4 ppg) and rebounding (4.3
tpg). She had some breakout games during her
junior year, most notably a 22-point effort in the
tournament’ s semi-final game against Greensboro,
earning her second-team All-Tournament recog-
nition.

O’Brien, too, comes into the season with a
litany of accomplishments under her belt. De-
scribed by many fans of Wildcat basketball as

potentially “the most exciting athlete on this cam-
pus,” the 5-6 point guard earned herself a lasting
place in the conference record books in just her
sophomore season. O’Brien led the Southern
Conference in assists, steals, and three-point per-
centage in 1997-98, becoming the first player ever
to accomplish such a feat. She was a unanimous
All-Conference selection that season, and was
dubbed pre-season conference player of the year
for 1998-99 along, with Furman superstar Jackie
Smith. As a junior, she overcame a slow start to
lead the league in assists and steals. Her 3.5 steals
per game ranked her ninth amongst the nation’s
Division I basketball players.

Coach Filar expects even bigger things from
his steadfast
superstar in
her senior
season:
“This is
gonna be
Joe n
O'Brien's
best year
that she’s
ever had at
Davidson,
whichis
very excit-
ing consid-
ering the
type of play
she had in
the past.
This is her
third year as

. co-captain,
the leadership she brings to
the court is very valuable.”

The Wildcat sensation was voted “best
ballhandler” and “best passer” at the Southern -
Conference coach’s gathering in October. O’ Brien
led the team in scoring during her sophomore
season with 17.1 points per game, and will be
looked to reclaim that role as the team’s go-to
scorer. “Last year, Jen tried to be an assist leader
more than a scorer,” described Filar. “This year
you'll see that change.”

Despite her patent humility, O’ Brien recog-
nizes the extent of her importance to the program.
“Obviously, I’m in two important roles this year,
as captain and point guard. But Katy and I are
really fortunate to have a team of girls that will
listen to anything we tell them. If] can fill my roles
to the best of my ability, our team will go far.”

Brent Ferrell

--Named Southern Conference
Runner of the Year, he became
the first cross country runner
in Davidson history to capture
the Southern Conference
‘Cross Country Individual title.

_ Southern Conference Cross Coun
Women's Team Scoring
. East Tennessee State 41 points
. Furman 64 points
. Appalachian State 78 points
. Chattanooga 79 points
. Western Carolina 87 points
UNC-Greensboro 199 points
. College of Charleston 207 points
. VMI 213 points
. Davidson College 216 points
10, The Citadel 324 points
10. Wofford College 324 points
12. Georgia Southern 332 points
Top Wildcat Runners
26. Lucy Billingsley 19:51.04 57. Shaw
31. Caroline Bennett 20:03.19 Hipsher
46. Caroline Little 20:43.41 21:24.92
56. Brooke Kittinger 21:21.83

CHONIDMWRWHE

et

Men's Team Scoring

. Chattanooga 41 points

. Appalachian State 94 points

. Furman 100 points

. East Tennessee State 117 points

VMI 156 points

UNC-Greensboro 157 points

. Davidson College 162 points

. College of Charleston 169 points

. Western Carolina 195 points

10. The Citadel 199 points _

11. Wofford:College 303 points
Top Wildcat Runners

1. Brent Ferrell 25:35.97

33. Dan Gibson 27:27.88

39. William Isenhour 27:31.94

41. Jimmy Swansbrough 27:32.79

CHONAADARwWN—

48. Pat Burchett 28:00.82

iter: Bis

sa ZA R

Women’s soccer
VS.

Appalachian State
The Wildcats host the
Mountaineers at 7 p.m. at
Richardson Stadium in the
first round of the
Southern Conference
Tournament.

