_TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1999

Davip ROSENBERG _
Administration involvement with code questioned

Sigma Alpha Epsilon for violations of the

Code of Responsibility. They cited an
article in The Davidsonian as reason to bring
these charges against the fraternity. When con-
fronted with the charges by the administration,
the SAE members could not deny them and risk an
Honor Code violation.

Now don’t] feel like the dimwitted tattletale.

No one denies the administration’s right to
bring up charges; the Honor Code and Code of
Responsibility give them that authority. They are
doing their job. The administrator who read the
article did his job. He picked up the school
newspaper, read of hearsay in the paper and
confirmed it.

But it seems ridiculous.

This Wednesday, SAE will sit for J-Board
trials. Most speculatively, at the least, J-Board
will issue a fine. At most, they will disallow next
semester’s pledge class. Whatever the sanctions,
they will have been initiated by hearsay. The
hundred-dollar fine SAE might receive will have
been spurred by aslip of the tongue, orrathera slip
of the pen.

Following their small prank, SAE cleaned
up Kappa Alpha’s house, bought them anew eight
ball and a new phone. No scratches, no dents, nor

S © last week, Judiciary Board prosecuted

bruises remained.gn the KA House. Everything
was as good as new, and KA had no complaints.
Only an undecided sanction remains, issued by a
detached source.

Ask anyone about the Honor Code and they
will most likely tell of its benefits: how terrifio-it

tached at times. Wherever a violation may exist,
students should bring up charges—not adminis-
tration. That power should not rest in their hands.

Last fall, at the request of students in re-
sponse to the “racial incident,” the administration
graciously granted a day off. The Union spon-

The hundred-dollar fine SAE might receive will have been
spurred by a slip of the tongue, or rather a slip of the pen.

is to be able to take unproctored tests and have
professors put trust in their students. Afterwards,
they will mumble to themselves how frustrating
they find it to question any borderline activities
under a code of seemingly elastic boundaries.

J-Board brought Sig Ep to trial in November
for not having a large enough designated 21 year
old area. Last year’s U.S. flag incident also exhib-
ited this frustration.

This topic, however, lies separate from any
code of living. It lies with the fact that the
administration and the students should be de-

sored speakers and presentations which many
students found very impressive. _

Buta speaker anda movie alone can’t change
aperson’s racial prejudices. And inthe same way,
sanctions can’t change the way a person or frater-
nity acts. The administration only intrudes upon
a community of which they are no part.

If the Honor Code is supposed to foster an
atmosphere of good conduct, well then, let the
students define good conduct. The administration
will argue that because students of Davidson
decide what the sanctions are and convict the

accused, the students do determine good conduct.

But students on the Judiciary Board cannot
help but convict a student under allegations of
fraternity pranks because by strict definition, it isa
violation of the Honor Code. However, J-Board
members only interpret it strictly by precedent, not
by requirement.

The administration and any superior will most
likely laugh at the thought of re-inventing the
Honor Code. It has been in establishment since the
birth of the school and is a critical characteristic of
it.

But why shouldn’t we consider a change in
policy? An honor code dictates that it exists to
foster an honest environment, which it does. How-
ever, an honor code only fulfills its purpose when
it creates an open environment as well. By creating
strife between the students, the judicial board, and
the administration, the Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility do not create that open environ-
ment. ,

So why not modify a frustrating characteristic
of this college? As much as we appreciate its
advantages—and respect its disadvantages—at
times we resent its unfairness. Trivial violations
shouldn’t bring suspension or sanctions, but rather
discussion. It is not the Honor Code we must
restructure; rather, just our interpretation of it and
the administration’s involvement with it.

KEVIN ZVARGULIS

Welcome to the Jungle

hil Reed wrote an editorial last week en
Pe: “Lowering Our Standards for Sex.”

He states in his article that many people are
sexually active on the Davidson campus and in
our society in general. Well surprise, surprise.

His tone is one of shock and dismay. Well,
let me be the first person to formally welcome Mr.
Reed to the world. He says that sex has become
too casual in our society. I have no problem with
his opinion. If he feels that sex is a sacred act and
should only be had within the context of marriage,
then that is fine.

Phil, there are plenty of people who feel the
same way that you do. There are women, and dare
I say it, men who would be happy to have a loving
and monogamous relationship with you and would
not have sex with you until the two of you are
blissfully wed.

Phil Reed goes on in his article to place a
value judgment on those of us who do not share his
opinion. The basic tone of his editorial is that
people who have sex outside of wedlock are
morally inferior.. Now this is where I have a
problem with Mr. Reed.

You have no right to impose your conserva-

tive, Christian fundamentalist values on anyone.
Feeling superior to others breeds exclusivity and
at its most dangerous level leads to holocaust. For
the sake of hu-
manity, I hope

that its only purpose.is procreation.

Well, if that is how you feel, I would hate to
be your lover. Sex can be a beautiful expression
of love and affection
for another human be-

that Mr. Reed is

ing. Sex is passion.

not as charismatic
a leader as Adolf
Hitler.

Mr. Reed in his
article criticizes
Gloria Steinem

Feeling superior to others breeds
exclusivity and at its most dangerous
level leads to holocaust.

Sex is pleasure, and
yes, sex is a form of
communication. I
have trouble even
imagining any human
being that feels that

for saying that sex
is a form of com-

sex is purely a utili-
tarian act.

munication. He
goes on to say,
“Now, I may be considered extreme, but if some-
one were to ask me to name an act of communica-
tion, sex would not come to mind.”

First of all, Mr. Reed is an extreme conserva-

tive who Rush Limbaugh would be proud to have
as a guest, but that is not the point. I am going to
make an assumption here: because Mr. Reed dis-
agrees with Ms. Steinem and does not think that
sex is a form of communication, then he must feel

In his article, Mr.
Reed also criticizes
our President’ s conduct by quoting a Mr. William
J. Bennet, who wrote The Book of Virtues, and
who is obviously some expert on morality. In
order to make my point, I would like to restate this
quote: “In marriage, one person has been en-
trusted with the soul of another. That power freely
given, is unlike any other human relationship; so
is the damage that can be done. This ought not be

made light of, shrugged off, or made fun of.”

Mr. Reed goes on to say in his article, “Yet
we still see no problem with our President’s
conduct.” The problem with the President’s con-
duct is in his attempt to conceal his relationship
with Monica Lewinski; but to say that he is
morally inferior because he got a blow job in the
oval office from a 20-year-old intern is wrong.

Mr. Reed has no idea what kind of relation-
ship the President has with his family. Perhaps
Mrs. Clinton video-taped the whole thing and
enjoys masturbating to it at night. If that is how
the relationship is between the President and his
wife, then so be it. Some people choose to live
their lives differently than you do Mr. Reed and
you have no right to pass judgment.

Just because the President does not interpret
the sixth chapter of Proverbs as literally as you do
does not mean he is an evil person. Just because
somebody has sex out of wedlock or commits
adultery does not make them evil.

What makes men evil, Mr. Reed, is moral
superiority which ultimately leads to the infringe-
ment upon the freedom of others.

KRISTEN TAYLOR

o I spent a little too much money this

Christmas, but I didn’t realize this until I

got my credit card statement. Then, I tried
to use the plastic at the Taj MaTeeter, and the
credit card deities denied me. Conveniently, [also
ran out of checks to mail my payment, and there-
fore I have been using cash exclusively for the
past two weeks.

I feel almost as if I have been conducting an
economic experiment with money, circulation
and personal spending. The ATM machine and I
are now on a first-name basis, and my ATM card
and I have developed a close personal relation-
ship. I have discovered that going solely on cash
is similar to keeping a journal of how much
money you spend and where:and how. I have
rediscovered how much easier it is to let it be “the
plastic’s party,” since plastic money exists only
in our minds. As my credit card company record-
ing states, “your available credit may have been
reduced by charges. not yet applied.” Me, my

-And yet, a stupid

Into Thin Air

available credit as a person, or how much you, my
credit card company has decided I’m good for? So,
if one credit card doesn’t give me the credit I need,
then I should expand my wallet to include yet
another card, right?
Wrong. That’s

an amount of money. More expendable than paper
money, my checks are also “protected” by a
powerful bank conglomeration and personified
by their related ability to bounce. So I fill in the
blanks, sign my
name to appease

where the trouble

the credit card

starts— because one
credit card can be
used to pay off an-
other and the inter-

estrates go sky high. denied me.

I tried to use the plastic at the Taj
MatTeeter and the credit card deities

gods, and my
imaginary credit
returns to its nor-
mal status.

As I
swipe my Catcard

inanimate square of

at Baker, on our

synthetic origin has

power over me. I

give my card this power by buying into the notion
of imaginary “available credit,” as if there is a
universal bank somewhere that determines my net
worth. Soto please the credit card deities, I sign my
name to a rectangular piece of paper that indicates

illustrious cash-

less campus, I
wonder why we have only added to the pile of
plastic we already own. Is anyone else troubled
simply by the term OneCard, which implies a
singular? We are forced to carry not one, but two,
forms of ID now because not all of the campus has

switched systems. True, it takes time to switch
over to any ONE system, but I have forgotten the
advantages of switching to the OneCard. Oh yeah,
our picture looks worse and we can use it in drink
machines. And don’t forget the fact that your
picture stays in the memory base, so if you lose
your card they still have your first flattering pic-
ture. Wow, I feel a lot better now.

I am frightened by the fact that our society
has built not castles in the air, but fortresses. My
available credit, check-writing ability and free-
dom to access buildings and drink machines exist
because we, as a society, campus, and individuals
believe they do. Think about it, what do we call it
while waiting for the card to go through? We need
to be approved. Where do we go from here? The
more technologically advanced: we become, the
more immaterial our financial power. When the
great computer crash of 2000 occurs, all of our
available credit, check protection and plastic power
may simply disappear into thin air...

FLL TT ET EE SE DSL EGE SE ELLE LADIES DELETE EDD ED LED DE LE DS TE CT EE TEE BIJ
