THE DAVIDSONIAN

esas
1 ae

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999-3

National
Depression

aré depression free.

- “Bapiession) urpige you to take a moment to make sure you — and those around you —

what to do:when you think
a friend _ may be:depressed

Ifatriend shows several of these symptoms of depression, you can
listen and encourage him or her to seek treatment. If they do not seek
help quickly, pleas talk to an adult you trust or go to the student
counseling center yourself and ask what you can do to get them help.
This is especially important if your friend mentions death or suicide.
Student Counseling x2451; beeper 356-2118.

Expresses feelings of:
_sadness or “emptiness”
_hopelessness, pessimism, or guilt
_helplessness or worthlessness

Seems to be:
_unable to make decisions
_unable to concentrate or remember
_uninterested in previously enjoyable activities
_having more problems with school and friends

Complains of:
_loss of energy and drive — “slowed down”
_trouble falling asleep, staying awake, or getting up
_appetite problems-gain or loss of weight
_headaches, stomach aches, or backaches

Behavior changes such as:
_being more restless or irritable
_wanting to be alone much of the time
_cutting classes or dropping hobbies and other activities
_drinking more or taking drugs

Talking about:
_death
_ suicide

getting a depressed friend help

1. Be persistent. Many people do not follow advice the first time but
will after it is suggested a few more times.

2. Follow up with the person-both to find out if they got the help
they needed and to find out if it was useful.

3. Be as specific as you Can in your suggestions — for example by
suggesting a specific person to talk to and even by helping them
get there.

4. Don’t take it personally if they don’t do what you suggest right
away -show interest in the outcome, not just if they did exactly
as you suggested.

5. Try to reduce their feelings of weakness or inadequacy because
they are down by letting them know it is not their fault. ©

6. Be optimistic and hopeful about their getting help — hecuges
their own optimism is diminished.

e Davidson:

are you depressed?

Clinical depression is a very treatable illness that affects 12
million people each year. If you check two or more items below
in our questionnaire, you are encouraged to make an appoint-
ment for an individual evaluations at the Student Counselling
Center. Hours are 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on weekdays or other
times by appointment, phone 892-2451.

@ I feel sad and blue much of the time

@ I’m not as interested in people and activities as I used to be.
@ I don’t have much energy

@ I’m sleeping more or less than I used to.

@ I’m discouraged about things.

@ I feel life isn’t worth it sometimes.

@ I get irritated very easily.

@ I cry, or feel like crying a lot.

NATIONAL DEPRESSION AWARENESS WEEK: OCTOBER 4-8, 1999
