Rhodes scho lar® ae

+ Story continued from front page

Davidson faculty members warmly
greeted news of Hunt’s success. “If there is a
more deserving kid at Davidson, I haven’t
met him,” said Zoran Kuzmanovich, who
serves as his major advisor in the English
department. “Christian is capable of facing
great misfortune with serenity and dignity; he
is one of the very few people I’ ve met who can
actually use adversity as fuel for achieve-
ment. And his achievements are considerable
because in both Christian’s prose and his
music one hears echoes of a finé mind that
documents, celebrates, and even grieves the
passing of all that is tender and fragile in
people and places,” added Kuzmanovich.

Teaching Hunt was an extraordinary
learning experience, said Denham. “He sees
things in new ways. He wrote a scholarship
essay explaining his interest in cities as large
and complex tonal instruments, and de-
scribing how he would study that as a reflec-
tion of cultures.”

Davidson faculty member Mark
McCulloh served as Hunt’s resident advisor
during the 1998-99 academic year abroad in
Wurzburg, Germany. McCulloh marveled
at the speed with which Hunt learned the
German language. “His ear for language and
dialect are’so good that he now speaks near-
perfect German witha delightful Franconian
lilt! He can pass not only as a German, but as
a Bavarian! He’s one of those students who
grasped the structure of the language, which
is So important, with ease.”

Hunt bought a pawned Fender guitar,
played and sang in an Irish pub in Wurzburg
with locals and Davidson friends, and worked
as McCulloh’s office assistant. McCulloh
continued, “I can’t tell you how much this
news pleases me. Christian is one of bright-
est and most humane students I’ve encoun-
tered in my 17 years at Davidson . It’s
wonderful when someone as modest as this
young man gets to the pinnacle. He brings a
lot of humanity to everything he does.”
Denham, his academic advisor, said Hunt’s
embrace of German culture last year ma-
tured him and gave him a good platform for
his Rhodes application. Denham also re-
vealed that Hunt considered applying only
after persistent last-minute prodding and
recommendation-writing by members of the

Your image is
everything. How
much it costs can

be our little secret.

(Next to Sushi at the Lake) 77

W. Catawba Ave

sy
Exit 28

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY

$6.99 =="

Limtt ore coupon per
customer: Good at
OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99 Twnberry lovutton only.

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1999 _

aShop x

Since 1951

college’s Graduate Fellowships com-
mittee.

Hunt admitted the tardiness, then
said the opportunity for another expe-
rience abroad and unparalleled re-
sources at Oxford in English language
and literature were too great to ignore.

The Rhodes Scholarships ‘were
initiated after the death of Cecil Rhodes
in 1902, and bring outstanding stu- —
dents from many countries around the
world to the University of Oxford.
American Rhodes Scholars are selected
through a decentralized process by
which regional selection committees —
choose 32 scholars each year from
among those nominated by selection
committees in each of the 50 states.

Intellectual distinction is a neces-
sary condition for selection, but not
sufficient in itself. Selection commit-
tees are charged to seek excellence in
qualities of mind and in qualities of
person which, in combination, offer
the promise of effective service to the
world in the decades ahead. The schol-
arship covers all expenses for two years
of study in the University of Oxford,
with the possibility of renewal for a
third year.

st Burritos

preakfa
Omelets
Pancakes

Eat-in Take-out
104 $.Main St. Davidson, NC

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS
SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM
povenceet VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION)

Ne Ne nee

/ ADS ae ecw cae
i og program designed

\ to prepare middle

\ achieving students in
grades 6-12 for four-
year college
and university
entry and

SUCCESS.

If you are, enrolled at a college or university, in good standing, and meet the qualifications listed below, you are a
candidate: for this position.

You must be:

Enjolied in a college or university with good academic standings

Able to work in a supportive manner with middie level and high school students and teachers

Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress

Available to work in the classroom at least three days weekly for one class period during the school day
Willing to receive three hours training in the AVID teaching methodologies

Aniexcellent role model for motivated, organized and successful students

Representative of a balanced academic background

HASGRaag

Term of Employment: 1999-2000 academic school year
Salary: $17.50 perhour
For additional information, please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte-Meckienburg Schools
AVID Office
700 East Stonewall Street Suite 506
' Cnariotte, North Carolina 28202
; (704) 343-6975

AVID TUTORS
(Personal Information}

Name: _
Mailing Address:
Telepnoie:
Coltege/ University:
Middle or High School preference:

1
j
+

Message Telephone:

