a oe ee

Wrestler turns in strong SCT performance

By Davip MoncurE
Sports Writer

The Wildcat wrestlers left campus like most
of us on February 27 for spring break; however,
instead of heading off to Florida or Colorado, they
traveled up to Greensboro to compete in the South-
ern Conference Tournament.

The weekend culminated with the ‘Cats fin-
ishing sixth in the tournament and ending the
season with a 6-13 overall record.

The highlight of the tournament: was junior
co-captain Ian Kaplan, who received a bid to the
NCAA tournament for the second straight year.
He finished third overall in the 150-pound weight
class and earned a wild card bid for the NCAA
tournament at Penn State on March 18-20. As
fellow wrestler Dan Carman put it, “Ian’s wild
card bid showed how much the (Southern Confer-
ence) coaches respect his wrestling” since Ian’s
weight class was perhaps the most competitive in

the tournament.

Carman, a sophomore, also turned in a great
performance in the tournament finishing third in
the 125-pound weight class. Carman has a very
bright future as a Southern Conference wrestler.

Head coach Tom Oddo, who wrestled at
Davidson in the eighties, hopes to lead the ‘Cats to
the top of the Southern Conference next year, and
this goal looks rather promising since there are no
seniors on this year’s squad. With the integral help
of the assistant coaching staff comprised of Julio
Arce, Miller Cary, and Marty Fajerman, the out-
look for next year’s season is very positive. The
Wildcats look forward to next year’s return of co-
captain Bo Bickerstaff who missed the entire sea-
son following a pre-season injury.

The ‘Cats wrestled a “very tough schedule
this year” according to Carman, and they are
constantly improving. Hopefully success will be
on the Wildcats side as they hit the mats next
season.

lan Kaplan

Captures NCAA tournament
berth in 150 pound weight class

Brab STEVINSON
Sports Writer

After suffering aclose loss to the Tar Heels
in the beginning of the season, the Davidson
men’s tennis team has rebounded, amassing an
impressive 7-4 record. This includes tough
victories over Navy, Temple, and James Madi-
son, all by scores of 4-3.

“Guys are really fighting hard,” Coach
Frank said. “The last matches were very close.
We’re really scrapping and fighting, and that’s
what we’re going to have to do all season.”

At one point in the JMU match, the Wild-
cats were down 3-1 but came back by winning
the three final matches. It is this kind of deter-
mination, focus, and depth that Coach Frank is
relying on to fuel the ‘Cats’ success in the
upcoming conference matches.

Frank cites strong doubles play as one key
factor in the team’s success. Davidson won two
of the three doubles matches against both North
Carolina and South Carolina, an unprecedented
feat for the team. “Our doubles, when we’re
committed, are doing very, very well. We've
been playing tough against the good teams which
is fabulous,” Frank said. He also credits the
individual play of Alex Okulski, Chad
Winebarger, and Scott Briggs as being critical
to the squad’s success. Okulski, a junior playing

#3 singles and #2 doubles, has fought his way toa
7-3 singles record and a 5-4 doubles record. The
freshman Winebarger has amassed a'7-3 mark at

#6 singles, and Scott Briggs has won six matches
while losing only three at #4 singles.

While the team has jumped out to an impres-

sive start, the true test will come in the next two
weeksas the ‘Cats beginconference play. Wofford,
a home match on Tuesday, will be the first of
several conference ‘opponents. Of the next ten
matches, five will be against schools in the South-
ern Conference. Solid play is vital if the ‘Cats
want to surpass last year’s fourth place finish in the
conference. Frank points to University of Tennes-
see-Chattanooga (a home match on April 2) and
East Tennessee State (an away match on April 10)
as being the toughest opponents the team will face
in the upcoming weeks. However, in the immedi-
ate future, UNC-Charlotte (at home on March 18)
and College of Charleston (at home on March 20)
will be formidable as well.

“I have been very pleased with our determi-

nation in the past few matches. If we can keep that
up, we should do well in the conference matches,”
Frank said. The Wildcats will definitely have tobe
on the top of their game as the next few weeks tout
a demanding schedule. However, the first half of
the season has proven that the squad is capable of
exceptional play, and there is little reason to be-
lieve that the second half will be any different.

- QUOTE OF THE WEEK

“Tl have that article
to you guys in half

an hour.”’

LIZ NUGENT

Swimming & Diving
,
The freshman diver
earned 22nd place as the
first-ever Wildcat to earn

son Sports Naas a berth in the NCAA zone
Writer competiton. Look for

more in next week’s feature
story.

DSS PLAYER OF THE WEEK

=

_ DSS GAME OF THE WEEK

Friday, March 19

UTAH
JAZZ

VS.

CHARLOTTE
HORNETS

7:30 PM
Charlotte Coliseum

‘ALBERT
4TH PLACE
142 LB.

LIBERSAT
3RD. PLACE
107 LB.

PAGE 11

WOMEN’S
LACROSSE

PAGE 10

TENNIS
TRACK
ECAC’S

