res

_TUESDAY, MARCH 16, 1999

Decoding the Teletubbies: Tinky Winky

When I came back from England this sum-
mer, there were four unidentifiable figures that I
thought would never make
it to the U.S. Granted, I
knew very little about the
Teletubbies, but I never
thought they would take the
industry by storm. In fact,
I thought there was some-
thing slightly askew about
the entire quartet. What
exactly are these genderless
figures ahd why do they
have television screens on
their bellies? After the re-
cent scandal surrounding
Tinky Winky arose, I
thought I would take some
time to try and understand
what was going on behind
those innocuous eyes. I
found that my investigation
would have to start on the
internet, and there my quest began.

When I typed in the word “‘teletubby”’ in the
search category, I received a flashing number
which stated I had over 36,000 hits on this one
word. Wow! I never fathomed that there would be
this much information outthere, But] then thought
about how many of these dolls I had seen around
stores lately and it seemed slightly less bizarre that
so many sites would exist. I decided to go directly
to the source and proceeded to the BBC sponsored,
educational, Teletubby playground.

Once in the colorful realm of Po, Laa-Laa,
Dipsy, and Tinky Winky, I discovered how over
my head I truly was. I had no idea
how to take it all in. In fact, it
startled me when I placed the cursor
near a Teletubby tummy and it made
them move about. I had remain
focussed and to proceed on with my
task: I wanted to understand them so
that I could make sense of this con-
troversy. I would not be conquered
by their infantile charms! In my
focused frame of mind, I finally saw
what I had been looking for, “Who
is Tinky Winky?” .

I clicked on the question and
entered into the Tinky Winky zone.
Immediately, a large Tinky Winky
popped up on the screen. Below his
name and to the right of his mug-
shot, abio had been written. The list
went as follows:

Tinky Winky is the biggest

Teletubby.

He is purple.

He has a special song which he loves to
sing to himself:

“Pinkle Winkle Tinky Winky, Pinkle

Winkle Tinky Winky.”

Tinky Winky loves walking, marching,
dancing-and falling over.
Tinky Winky’s favorite thing is his

special red bag.

Tinky Winky loves big hugs best of all.

I sat in my chair slightly puzzled at my findings.
Alright, so he is purple, likes to fall over, and
carries a red bag around with him, what makes
him so irresistible to children and something to be
spurned by a select group of individuals? Alright,
I will agree, he has some
coded references that liken
themselves to alternative
lifestyles, but does that
make him a gay role model
infiltrating the minds of
young children? I didn’t
see it! Ihonestly could not
understand why one would
even waste their time (un-
less they had more time
than they knew what to do

clouds away / On my way to the where the air is
sweet / Can you tell me how to get / How to get to
Sesame Street” memories. What happened to
Bert? If memory serves me correctly, a similar
question came about a few years back regarding
Bert and Ernie. Was it
true that somebody
thought that Bert and
Ernie were gay? As far
as I knew when I was
younger, they were just
good friends. Could it
have been true that se-
cretly Bert and Ernie
were lovers? More im-
portantly, did it really

with, and even then I would

find something slightly more productive to do)
than slander a harmless purple character. At least
it does not sing annoying songs like Barney, in
fact as far as I could tell, all of the Teletubbies
spoke an incomprehensible language.

However, this little search of mine did make
me think back to my own childhood. These
Teletubbies in many respects liken themselves to
the Jim Henson muppet creations that could be
watched every morning on Sesame Street. They
all possess bodies of brightly colored felt-like
fabric, have large hypnotic eyes, and lead lives
without very many worries (for it seems that even
the unfortunate fall in Teletubby land causes
enjoyment). Though, a question arose as I was
thinking back on the “Sunny Day / Sweepin the

matter? Obviously,
somebody thought it im-
portant enough to off Bert’s character.

Inthe recent light of the whole “Tinky Winky”
scandal it becomes quite clear how ridiculous
some people are sometimes. Bert and Ernie were
stuffed puppets , just as Tinky Winky is a cos-
tumed human. As if there is not enough going on
in the world, it seems sad that the very fabric of our
childhoods’ comes under attack. Lets reexamine
the targets one more time; Tinky Winky, Bert and
Ernie. Don’t we have better things to do than pick
on toys?

jpbwtl: Denueely Tr

Washers and Dryers of Fury

1.) Resolved, this school needs more washing
machines.

If the rest of the world knows anything about
Davidson, it’s either the fact that we have an
honor code (and oh so proud we all are of it), or
that Davidson College does its students’ laundry
for them. Back me up on this one - “Hey, don’t
they do your laundry [pointing and laughing op-
tional]?” must be the most frequent comment
made by outsiders about our innately weird school.
That’s right, knowing how to clean one’s own
clothing is nota prerequisite for receiving a David-
son College diploma and the thorough liberal arts
education that comes with it. You (parents and
strangers) would be surprised how few of us
choose to pay homage to the smokestack palace.
I’m not sure of the exact student body percentage,
butit’s clear that hundreds of “‘up-the-hill” David-

son students are trying to uphold their hygiene
with the aid of the same three washing machines in
the Sentelle basement. You used to have to sit on
top of the far left one or place a large boulder on it
for it to actually run.

It amazes me, but after two years, it now
seems simpler and more practical (and almost
easier) to do it yourself. Either method involves
carrying large masses of fabric in heaps over long
distances. If you let Davidson clean your clothes,
it takes anywhere between one and five days
(dude, I swear one time it took them five days on
mine). If you do it yourself, they’re done in under
two hours, and none of them end up folded inside
out (unless for some reason that turns you on, in
which case, go for it).

Butit doesn’t matter what time of day ornight

you choose to venture into Basement Sentelle,
hoping to find salvation in an empty washer or
dryer (of which there are four, and one is currently
broken) - they are nearly always occupied. What
happened to the machines in Watts? I heard they
were going to give them back to us. If they’re
going to doit, they should do it now, while I’ m still
angry.

Once again, however, we are faced with the

- “Oh, you poor babies” effect, so often encountered

when examining crises which grip the heart of the
student body. (Remember how disastrous was the
loss of caffeine in bottles at the Union Café? Made
front page in The Davidsonian, even.) So, we
should just suck it up and use the laundry service
provided for us by the college, I suppose. Ah, but
wait...

Rumors fly pretty swiftly around here. Ru-
mors about faculty, students, goats - all kinds of
rumors. I heard one about the laundry service, and
that they (to whomever “they” refers) were going to
start charging students a fee to use it. I could see this
causing a sturdy increase in demand for these facili-
ties, which, as they are already insufficient to serve
our needs as they stand now, cannot possibly do
their job alone. They need some friends, and they
need them now.

2.) Leave Tinky Winky alone.

— ‘THOMAS McCELVEEN

that no one cares about much less cares to
read about. But I need to get something off my
chest, or rather off my shoes. Bear with me.

As I sat in Astronomy class on a sunny
Thursday afternoon, I was distracted from the
lecture by my olfactory senses. Something stunk.
linitially ignored the smell, thinking that it was the
type of odor that would either simply dissipate or
be blown in another direction. I knew it wasn’t me,
but hey, this was shortly after lunchtime and the
Commons had served beans. I looked at my
neighbor, who also happens to be a resident on my
hall, and he asked me with a twisted face, “Is that
you?” Lassured him that I couldn’t claim that one.
However, as time persisted, so did the mystery
smell.

That’s when I glanced at my shoe, and I

Cut the cra

od forbid that I write an article for The
Davidsonian rambling about something

realized that I had stepped in it. I immediately
excused myself from class to take care of a prob-
lem that I had already dealt with earlier in the
week. It’s annoying. It smells heinous. It’s
downright nauseating. If
you haven’t figured it out

the poop had jumped up and bitten one of us in the
heel. Of course, the victim was yours truly. While
my friends enjoyed the delicious Frutazza
Smoothies in the café, I was outside cussing and
scraping crap off my
shoes.

yet, I stepped in dog crap.

I realize that as the
weather warms up, people
are wont to take Rover
and Fido out fora stroll. I
am a dog owner, and I
realize the importance of
daily exercise for man’s

Something stunk. I initially
ignored the smell, thinking that
it was the type of odor that would
either simply dissipate or be
blown in another direction.

When this misfortune
struck me again before
Astronomy class, I felt
inclined to take action.
While tackling the te-
dious task of removing
the feces and the smell
of raw sewage from my

best friend. But person-
ally, I think the unwanted ;
presents that dogs are leaving behind are becom-
ing a bit of a problem.

The other night, I was walking to the Union
with some friends when our noses warned us that

shoes, I missed valuable

class time, and received

some strange glares from passersbys. And hell,

these were new shoes! I knew the only thing to be
done was to write The Davidsonian. :

I understand that I really should not be walk-

ing on the grass in the first place. The little bit of
grass that we actually have (in lieu of the many
ingenious construction projects around here) is to
be cherished. But when I wander off the beaten
path that winds from Belk, to Chambers, to the
Union area, I don’t think it should be Fifi or
Butch’s job to punish me.

Dog owners, I’m begging you: when taking the
dog out for a walk, especially on our beautiful
campus, please arm yourself with a pooper-
scooper. If your pooch decides to drop bombs on
what’s left of Chambers lawn, please have the
decency to scoop it up and fling it in the surround-
ing shrubbery. I assure you, it’s good karma.
When Spot does his business in front of the Watson
Building, don’t leave it to my shoes to clean it up.
If this happens again, I’m gonna be pissed.

Pa ae ee on ee ee
