Professor X

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

Take a guess

ongratulations go out to Billy Boykin,

last week’s big winner. I know — he must

be smarter than he looks. By correctly
guessing Dr. Cynthia Lewis, the current chair of
the English department, Billy had the pleasure of
selecting this week’s professor. The interview
was very enjoyable and I discovered some engag-
ing information, Have fun trying to read between
the lines and Good Luck!

As a third generation North Carolinian, she
feels right at home here. Her mother is from
Miller’s Creek and her father was from Black
Mountain. Her mother still lives in Salisbury,
where she grew up. Back at Salisbury Elementary
she shared her first kiss with a boy named John
Waters. Being quite mature for a fourth grader she
remembers judging the experience as “overrated.”

I think she was permanently hooked on col-
lege as an undergraduate at Wake Forest. Being a
habitual early riser, even in college, she could
sometimes share breakfast with A.R. Ammons
(the poet-in-residence). He’s famous—for those
of you scratching your heads. Describing herself
as “high-energy” she was able to be active in the
social scene, and get a lot of studying done. She
graduated in 1976.

Before heading out to Notre Dame for Gradu-
ate School and her Ph.D., she became a certified
fork-lift driver and went to work for Schlitz Beer.
She worked twelve hour shifts moving huge quan-
tities of that fine American Lager in the can factory
and became an active member of United Steel
Workers Union. Gaining new perspective on the
value of her education, she headed for South Bend
and put her nose in the books until she graduated
Dr. in 1983.

Being a lover of history and animals, she
considered being a veterinarian and an archeolo-
gist, but settled on teaching because of her intense
love of learning. She claims to learn more from the
students than she teaches them. I asked her who
her most memorable student has been and she
settled on two: Tyler Epp and Billy Roberts (nei-
ther were majors in her department): “They run on
special batteries. They both have the ability to
ignite a class and spark interest from all different
perspectives.” Trying to clearly explain the ap-

peal of Billy and Tyler she mentioned Bon Appe-
tite magazine. In every issue someone is asked
this question: “If you could have anyone to a
dinner party, who would you dine with?” She says
it would be these two characters, so they would
keep interesting and lively conversation flowing
all night.

When | asked her which tree on campus was
her favorite she delighted me with a lighthearted
anecdote. She was walking through the aftermath
of Hurricane Hugo to her car parked in front of
Chambers. Luckily, a student called out from
across the lawn to chat, stopping her moments
before a large tree crushed her car! The ill fortune
cueing her one and only “Scarlett O’ Hara mo-
ment.” She threw her arms open yelling with all
the drama she could muster in her soft southern
accent: “I have the worst luck in the whole damn
world!” The fact that her favorite tree is the one
which demolished her ride, says much about her
happily pleasant character.

In her office she has huge pictures of LBJ,
Einstein teetering on a bicycle, one of herself
yelling boldly, at a political protest, and even a
reference to “Twin Peaks.” She only has one pet
right now: Fat Elvis the raccoon cat. Don’t call
her after nine on Sundays because she won’t even
answer the phone during the X-files. I was slightly
surprised when she responded to “what is your
favorite episode,” by swiftly pulling out the X-
files reference book and flipping through until she
could show me a picture. This is just for those
special people who really want to know—her
favorite episode is “Squeeze.” She has run in the
DC marathon once and the New York marathon
twice (always clutching various handkerchiefs in
her right hand, being unable to run without one).
She considers our nation’s most important law to
be the First Amendment. She tries to relay her
absolute devotion to free speech by encouraging
intense discussion in the classroom. She considers
service to others a top priority. .

Email who you think this week’s professor is
and your choice for next week’s professor to
brmemillan @ davidson.edu

Brandt McMillan’01

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

Hunting

going to run. I’mthrough running. So, I grab
my weapon and I attack. WHAM! One goes
down, CRACK! I pop another one, and finally I
deliver a punishing WACK to number three.
Everyone can calm down; I’m not describing my
latest hunt for food or even my last trip down on
the Court. I’m talking about large stinging in-
sects: Yellow Jackets, also know as the scourge of
man.
Before some eco-wenie starts yelling at me

I *m outnumbered and surrounded, but I’m not

for killing these punks, I'll remind that they at- ,

tacked me. I was sitting at my computer feeling
the wonderful breeze and WIZZZ one enters via
my roomie’s open window and as I walk over to
close the window and end the threat of further
invasions.... Two more zip in, this time by my
open window. Being a grown man and master of
my domain, I decided to leave them be, and hope
that they'd leave me alone, but then they started
buzzing around my head. I tried to continue with
my typing, but after one of evil critters landed on

my arm and scared the bejesus out of me, I ran. I
did what millions of men have done since the start
of time...I retreated. Girls, remember that the next
you are upset and we’re running away...it is ge-
netic, we can’t help it. .

So, the time for peace had ended and war was
the only option. I grabbed my history book and
retreated into the corner, and then, like my uncle’s
stomach after Thanksgiving, I exploded forward
and ended the intruders. So, finally, I’m sitting
here and I don’t feel good anymore. I feel kinda
bad. I-mean, I was right to defend my home, but
those poor little bastards are dead now. So, my
long-winded point is, violence, however fun, isn’t
always the correct answer, just ask my poor
squished yellow jacket buddies. Of course, this is
all told from the point of view that I wasn’t stung
by one of those harpoons they have hanging out of
their asses. If that had happened my title would be
something like buy stock in raid, “cause it’s ON
now! See y’all later.

Jimmy Burford ’02 |

The Other Side: Got God?

.W.J.D... What Would Jesus Do? We
Want Jack Daniels? Whatever its.
meaning, perhaps depending on

whether it’s Saturday night or Sunday morning, -

one can’t walk 20 feet these days without seeing
this acronym. At what point did we enter this third
great awakening? Perhaps this is something else
we can blame on Y2K, but whatever it is, it has
certainly made a surge within the last three years.
Remember back in'the eighties, when the. only
religion you saw in public was Highway to Heaven?
Religion was a killer ten years ago, but now it
seems that God is the quickest meal ticket around.
With shows like Touched by an Angel, Seventh
Heaven, and the 700 Club recording all new rat-
ings records, and movies like City of Angels,
Angels in the Outfield (and not to leave out the ill-
conceived Angels in the Endzone. Presumably
thought up by the same people who brought you
Police Academys 13-45), and Stigmata, it is easy
to see how religion has become so prevalent in our
society.

Let’s face it here folks, God has become the
latest slap bracelet. _We know you remember
them, those little quasi-metal bracelets with some
fun slogan or design on them (ours said, “Aye-
Carumba!”). We all had them, they were cool for
about a year, and then they eventually became
rusted and started to kill children. Now we’re not
saying that God is going to rust and kill children,
we swear, don’t take the metaphor farther than it
was meant to go! This fad has gone so far that it
can’t be too long before we are hearing, “Would
you like a hot apple pie with your God Value
Meal?” Honestly; while we were at the beach this
summer, we actually saw a W,W.J.D. board game.
Now this just seems silly. How hard can the

questions be? “You see a vial of crack on the
ground, what would Jesus do?” (Hint: L.T. 4:17
says, “...and that brings me to my next point,
don’t smoke crack.” Can Godopoly be too far
behind? “You landed on my Egypt, and I have a
plague, locusts, and it’s raining frogs, you owe me
your graven images.”

The bottom line to all of this requires an

‘answer to the question, what would Jesus do?

Would he cash in on his name and status like one
of the Sinatra children? Would he advertise
himself? Would he really know what he would
do? Would he worship the almighty dollar, as it
seems so many of these companies marketing the
W.W.J.D. and Know Fear apparel seem to be
doing? Now we’re not saying that everyone
wearing the W.W.J.D. apparel is wearing it merely
as a fad. There are genuinely good people who
just want to make their faith known. We applaud
you for your steadfastness of belief and bravery to
have worn them at the beginning when it merely
wasa sign of faith. This isok by us... but let’s face
it, like you cared what we thought anyway.

...And now once again for the Springer final
thought... We must all remember that Eskimo
carnival folk are people too. .. dammit wrong final
thought. We ask you this, before you buy the next
W.W.J.D. Playstation game (WWJD: RAW),
‘donate the money to the poor, because isn’t that
what Jesus would really do?

Dave Stroupe ’02
Cort Heroy ’02

Snooze on. .

TT he loud, incessant beeping wakes me from
my slumber. I whack the snooze button,
then settle back down again to go to sleep,
never even cracking open an eyelid. Almost in-
stantaneously, the alarm goes off again. It seems
louder this time. Now [rub my eyelids, then open
my right eye. The clock says that seven minutes
have passed since the original alarm should have
gone off, inconceivable. Whack. This time, the
beeping is louder and more persistent. I know that
I must get up, economics waits for no man, yet I
resist. I think to myself, “I don’t need to go to
breakfast this morning.” Whack. Now it is as if an
army is marching through my room, cannons fir-
ing. A distant voice yells, “shut that bloody thing
off.” Ido this. Now I am sitting upright in bed, my
blurry eyes trying to make out the note I left
myself: “You have another review today, so get up
and study.” Too late for that. Whack. Now I hear
a banging, not a beeping. I raise my arm to silence
the alarm clock yet again. Then I realize the clock
is not the culprit. It is a hall-mate asking me what
we had to write for Humanities class: Suddenly, a
full brass band erupts in my room. My line of sight
shifts again to my clock, still thirty-five minutes
before class. I don’t need to shower today. Whack.
My roommate shakes me. “Don’t you have class?”
Crap. Why didn’t that damned alarm work, I pon-
der to myself. “Five minutes, I can’t make it in five
minutes, I might as well go back to sleep. NO! GET
UP Andrew, GET UP!” At last, my willpower
kicks in and I rise. Oh look, four minutes, plenty of
time. | ;

What is our fascination with the snooze but-
ton? Is it a sign of the laxity and apathy that defines
our current society? Or is it simply a neat gizmo
that allows us to set our alarms at responsible
times, knowing full and well that we plan on

. snooze off

sleeping for much longer? It is a means of
deceiving ourselves. We set these ideal goals
despite our plans to break these goals. Is there a
point to having goals that you are not going to
fulfill?

I remember my first alarm clock... [ was
entering middle school and my mother had de-
cided that she was no longer going to wake me up
for school. We went to Target and purchased an
alarm. It was a Magnavox cube and it had dual
alarms. I was young and innocent. I did not know
the ways of the snooze back then. Besides, despite
my mother’s threats, she kept waking me up in the
morning.

_ My first encounter with the snooze button
came with high school. I was now waking much
earlier than my mother and was forced to set the
alarm. One day, I whacked the alarm to turn it off,
only to have it have turned back on after I got out
of the shower. Perplexed, I walked over to the box
and looked at its buttons. It had a large one
marked, “snooze.” Still puzzled, I dug out the
manual and discovered that this “snooze” button
had a purpose. It was an answer to my prayers.

Since then, hardly a week goes by in which
I don’t use my “snooze” button at least once. I
have since graduated to the Sony Dream Ma-
chine, but my sentiments remain true. Long live
the snooze button.

Note: This article should not be construed as
condoning the use or misuse of snooze buttons.
Every year, many promising academic careers are
destroyed by snooze button addiction. Further-
more, Andrew would like to make sure that it is
understood that he showers on a very regular

basis.
Andrew MacDonald ’03

Tarik’s Top
Ten List

Top ten signs you’re not enjoying your freshman
year:

10. You’ ve thought about or are currently dating
someone who goes to this school
9. You broke both of your arms while riding
your bike from Baker
8. It’s the weekend and you’ ve been to the 24
hour room
7. It’s the weekend and you’ ve been to the
Commons/Patterson Court
6. Out of bordeom, you start drinking at 2, p.m.
on the weekend
5. You’re a girl and you haven't visited Cannon
209
4. Sick of scrubbing roomates’ urine stains from
sink/windowsill
3. Have used the words “lame,” “girls,” “party,”
and “sucks” in the same sentence
2. Tired of seeing those annoying people you
met during Orientation/ the girl you
hooked up with last weekend
1. It’s almost October and you’ ve already spent

your Bonus Bucks ;
Tarik Khan ’00

C19 Canendes Cormeen ba

“So your boyfriend wants to date other
people, What's the big deal?”

“He wants to date you!”

For the Coole
& Acce

peting Cards, Games,

StickWorld F
e t stickworld.com
