THE DAVIDSONIAN _

PCC service retreat establishes semesters goals |

By AsuHtey E. Kinc
News Editor

On Sunday, January 24th, the Patterson Court
service representatives met at 2:00 pm in the Wilson
room of the Union to discuss their plans for the 1999
Spring semester. Each house on the Court had at least
onerepresentative, and directing the proceedings were
Christine Larned ‘01, the Service Coordinator for
Patterson Court, and Bill Abrams, the Community
Service Coordinator, The meeting was part of a larger
series of PCC retreats which were taking place in the
College Union from 12:30 until 4:00 in the afternoon.

As some of the service representatives were
attending their first PCC meeting, the afternoon began
with some brief introductions. The representatives
then completed a survey which evaluated the role of
service on Patterson Court. In examining their respec-
tive houses, representatives rated not only their mem-
bers’ involvement and enthusiasm but also their mem-
bers knowledge of the different opportunities avail-
able. .

Competitive

Continued from page 1

selection committee makes its decisions on which
applicants to hire. Fifteen current RAs and HCs
assist with the interview process. Next year, RLO
hopes to require all RAs and HCs to help interview
applicants. Residence Life Director Kurt Holmes
sees the interviews as a “chance to pull seasoned
staff members into the decision process.” Deci-
sions concerning the placement of the hired appli-
cants are based on the strengths and weaknesses of
the individual candidates, as well as the specific
needs of the different residential buildings.

After sharing the results of the survey, the meet-
ing proceeded into a discussion. Abrams first asked the
representatives to describe the attitudes of those in
their house toward service. Some described their
houses as being “‘excited” to be involved in service,
while others expressed concern about the effects of
limited time and opportunities on the enthusiasm of
those in their house. Most representatives agreed that
although students are reluctant to make a commitment
to service, they usually enjoy themselves once they
have become involved.

Working towards establishing their goals for the
semester, the representatives then discussed different
obstacles that might prevent their house from partici-
pating in service events, and they also explored several
solutions. Most representatives agreed that establish-
ing programs that are scheduled at a consistent time
each week would help induce more students to be-
come involved. They also agreed that persistence on
the part of the service representatives would increase
the amount of students who participate in service.

To educate the representatives about major ser-
vice projects that are available, three speakers from
different service organizations presented some impor-
tant events that they would be sponsoring.

First, Liddy Davis spoke about Relay for Life, a
fundraising cancer awareness event. Occurring from
Friday, April 16 until the following Saturday, the event
involves teams of ten to fifteen people. Although the
entire team is not required to stay the whole time, each
team is supposed to have at least one member walking
or running around the track at Richardson field for the
duration of the twentyfour hour event. Each team is
also responsible for raising a minimum of one hundred
dollars. Proceeds from the event will benefit the

American Cancer Society fund forcancerresearch and ,

* development.

. The next speaker was Randall Hit from the
Relatives, a nonprofit organization in Charlotte which
provides youth from the ages of seven to seventeen
with a place to stay. Highlighting a program called
“Hoop It Up,” Hit hoped to encourage Davidson

students tocontribute in various ways. Taking placeon
March 20th and 21st, “Hoop It Up” is a three on three
basketball tournament involving famous players from
the NBA. This year the Relatives hope to attract 200
volunteers to staff the event, and the hope to raise at
least $10,000. Students may also volunteer at the
runaway crisis shelter if they are interested in working
more closely with children.

Finally, Randy Mardus ‘99, the studentrepresen-
tative for Habitat for Humanity, presented the oppor-
tunity tobecome involved in Habitat through Davidson.
He said that large groups usually volunteer on Satur-
day mornings, but he emphasized that students are
welcome to volunteer at any time.

Whenasked what they had been trying to accom-
plish at the meeting, Larned said that it was “an
opportunity to ascertain the direction of. service this
semester.” She continued by saying, “Also, it’s kind of
a forum on finding out what’s available.” Anyone
interested in becoming more involved in service this
semester can contact Christine Larned at 896-6200 or
Bill Abrams at 896-2460.

RLO application process underway

Certain students serve as RAs for two years in
arow, and some positions are only open to return-
ing staff members. This year, three seniors served
as Resident Directors (RDs), but next year this
position will be completely phased out. Only Area
Coordinators will continue to be used. Area Coor-
dinators are professional adults with a master’s
degree in higher education, counseling, and stu-
dent personnel or a related field, and they will be
stationed throughout the campus. These profes-
sional staff members have extensive experience in
residence and student life. “The RD position was

PCC Minutes

PCC Meeting Minutes for January 24, 1999.
. Union Conference Room

I, Attendance
II. Announcements by the PCC President Megan
O’Brien

*Meeting time was set to be every Sunday
night at 9pm.

*No meeting next Sunday
*Jim Barber’s announcements:

1) Brought up the chance for houses to switch
insurance over to Davidson College’s insurance of
United Health Care Plan. The cooks for each
house need to decide whether to keep their old
coverage or switch over to United. Jim asked all
presidents to talk to their houses and their cooks in
the next two days. He gave out the comparison

‘data between United coverage and Blue Cross/
Blue Shield. By Wednesday of this week, each
house must contact Jim with their house’ s decision
whether to stay with their old plan or move over to
United. All houses who want to switch to United
must do so at the same time. Please contact Jim
with any questions and your decision by Wednes-
day. ;

2) Jim handed out the new apartment forms to
the presidents of each house that has apartments.
The deadline for these forms is March 25, but Jim
asked the presidents to start early. He needs two
definite people and two alternates for each apart-
ment. The alternates will fill in if something
happens to the others.

3) Eating House presidents need to give the
list of directors to Bart Landess as soon as pos-
sible.

4) Two regional conferences are coming up
and Jim would like to know who would be willing
to attend. SEIFC is for fraternity members, presi-
dents, and representatives. This conference is in
Atlanta from February 18-21. Jim Barber will be
accompanying the Davidson representatives. This
will not involve a cost except for activities outside
of the conference. Everything else will be in-
cluded. Please contact Jim Barber if you want to
attend, SEPC is for the women of Patterson Court,

This conference is from March 25-28 and all costs
are taken care of. This conference is mostly for
sororities from the Southeast but the programs are
geared towards leadership and

women’s issues. Dani Hiar will be taking the
Davidson participants. This is also in Atlanta.
Please let Jim Barber know if you want to attend.

III. Elections :

*Secretary. Nominations for Alfred Vichot,
Phoebe Norton, and Laura Lothman. The new
PCC Secretary is Phoebe Norton.

*Service Co-Chair. Christine Larned asked
Jim how they should work this. He suggested that
their be two overlapping service chairs elected
Spring 1999 and Fall 1999. Nominations for
Desirae Haylock and Mike Wipfler. Desirae
Haylock is the new Service Co-Chair.

*Student Solicitors: Liz Reed, Dan Carman,
and Kelly Byrd.

IV. Committees
*Megan O’Brien asked the PCC members to

sign up for the 4 standing committees.

1)Finance Committee- chaired by Mauricio
Sauma.

2)Service Committee- chaired by Christine
Larned and Desirae Haylock.

3)Rules and Regulations Committee-chaired
by Chad Phillips.

4)Publicity Committee- chaired by Phoebe
Norton.

V. Judicial Board

* Scott Buchanan announced that there will be
three J board hearings Wednesda, January 27 at
8:00pm in Phi Hall for Warner Hall, Turner, and
Kappa Alpha.

VI. Discussion.

*Jim Barber handed out the New Member
Series posters for members to put up on their halls
and in their houses.

just getting to be too big a responsibility for
students to handle,” Kauffman commented. “We
can’t just say to the RDs, ‘Don’t go to class today,
deal with roommate conflicts instead’.”,

Interest in the RD position has also steadily
declined because students complain of too great a
workload to manage such an additional responsi-
bility, and many dislike the notion of directly
supervising their peers. “We thought it would bea
good time to make the switch to full-time staff
only,” Kauffman said.

@ David Vaughn ‘00 sprints past ruins of former

Next year, four Head RA positions will be
held by students wishing to “assume a leadership
role among the student staff,” Holmes said. They
will work closely with the Area Coordinators, and
will each be assigned to a residential zone on
campus, such as to Martin Court or the Belk and
Richardson Dorms.

|

College Communications

bleachers at Richardson Field. These bleachers are
being cleared for the much anticipated new track.
