THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ NEws

MONDAY, OCTOBER 25,1999 -

Fall Convocation will include honors and awards

Former U.S. Ambassador
Edward Brynn, currently
on staff at UNC-Charlotte,
will be the featured
speaker this Saturday.

By STRATTON LAWRENCE

College Communications

Davidson College invites the public to join
the college community in honoring students, fac-
ulty, and a distinguished alumni jurist at Fall
Convocation on Saturday, October 30. The aca-
demic procession begins at 10:30 a.m. in J. Spen-
cer Love Auditorium of Chambers Building. Fea-
tured speaker for the occasion will be Ambassa-
dor Edward Brynn, associate vice chancellor for

~ international programs at The University of North
Carolina at Charlotte. Brynn served in the U.S.
Foreign Service from 1972-1998, including as-
signment as the Ambassador to Ghana from 1995-
1998. He also served in six other African coun-
tries and Sri Lanka, and was a diplomat-in-resi-
dence at the Air Force Academy and staff mem-

http://www.ce.columbia.edu/ys/

ber of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence.
Brynn has entitled his speech, “America As
‘City on the Hill’ in the 21st Century.” He will

speak about “the end of exceptionalism,” orthe end —

of the notion that what ails the world in general
doesn’t affect the United States because of our
unique position and power. He will propose that
this country is being increasingly affected by events
and trends beyond our borders, and must work
closely with other countries around the globe to
help shape our mutual destinies.

The college will present one of its two top
teaching honors, the Thomas Jefferson Award, to
an outstanding professor, and will announce two
additional faculty members as new holders of pres-
tigious named professorships.

Three students will receive the Goodwin-
Exxon Awards for character, sportsmanship, and
consideration of others. One sophomore will re-
ceive the Alumni Association Award for achieving
the highest academic average during his or her first
year of studies. Historically, two out of three stu-
dents who win this award go on to graduate first or
second in their class.

In addition, the college will confer an honor-
ary Doctor of Laws degree on J. Dickson Phillips,

Jr., a 1943 graduate who has earned esteem as a

soldier, academician, and as a federal judge.

Study Abroad
Visiting Students

Summer Session

Off-Campus Learning O portunities Through |

If you need more reasons to be in New York, Columbia University
can provide them!

a ¢ Columbia University in Paris * Berlin Consortium for German
For more information: Studies * Summer Program in Italy (Scandiano) * Summer Program
Beijing :
212) 854-6483 oe ,
( e-mail: Summer Session 2000
cesp-infoS@columbiaedu Join us for the 100th anniversary of Columbia's Summer Session!
Or visit our Website. Ic’s not to early to plan for 2000! Bulletin available in February—
reserve yours today.
LILA
i CONTINUING EDUCATION AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS

RE Sor?

Visiting Students
Study Abroad

Australia is a colorful, diverse and intriguing
place. It is a country where the notions of the
beach, the bush, the city and the outback come
together to create a place that is endlessly fasci-
nating. Australia is a place that can bé like
nowhere else and yet not all that different from
the lifestyle you know. Beaver College helps
you to discover for yourself what life is really
like “down under.” With programs at universi-
ties in Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Gold
Coast, Cairns, Townsville, Wollongong and
Perth, we offer something for just about every-

one. Call for a free catalog today.

Bornin Scotland County, N.C., Phillips joined
the armed forces immediately after his graduation
from Davidson and served as an officer in the
Seventeenth Airborne Division during the Euro-
pean Campaign of World War II. He received the
Bronze Star for valor, Presidential Citation, and
the Purple Heart. After the war, he earned a law
degree from UNC, and was editor of the “Law
Review.” He practiced law in Laurinburg and
Fayetteville, then returned to UNC as a professor

_and later dean of thetlaw school.

In 1978, President Carter appointed him as a
judge to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals,

where he served for 20 years. During that time, the
North Carolina Bar Association presented him
with its two highest awards.

He also served his alma mater as a trustee for
20 years, and was vice chair of the board. In that
capacity, he wrote the college’s constitution and
its Code of Disciplinary Procedure, which has
guided the student judicial process. ~

The ceremony will include musical selec-
tions from a student ensemble led by Professor
William Lawing and organist Patricia McBrayer,
and an offering from the student Concert Choir,
which is led by Professor Raymond Sprague.

Hand Bicked New Fea Selection

Choose from many delicious & unique

| Treen Teas. Black Fei
asad Herbal Tifiseonr

128 S. Main Street ¢ Davidson » 895-9080

perspective

The Bab

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

iwsontan

NEWS
Senior Editors

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

“WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager

LAURA McCANDLISH PETER CLARK... ., MELISSA ANN
ANN GREGORY deCASTRIQUE
Photographer». Advertising Manager . :
JAKE HARRINGTON PETER ChARK ARTS& LIVING
. oi f Ci Dexigyers Senior Editor
é spore “BEN COTTON SETHDAVIS
MIKE A PERSON CADER HO} W ARD Photographers
BURGINHARDIN..; "8 i” JESSICA BOGO
ten} Circulation Managers -’‘** ADAM SOTO
Photographer CINDY CE: 1 —_ iy
ANNA JUDY + NA AR <4 Head Copy Editor
Layout E ditars 4 “iy Exthaordinaire
BEN COVINGTON " WERTNEY BLAKE
CADER HOWARD, ee
ey, oat Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read Che Dabvidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Beaver College

Beaver College

Center for Education Abroad
1.888.BEAVER-9 ¢ cea@beaver.edu

www.beaver.edu/cea/

Australia

