THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Patrick BAETIER
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, November 4", Davisdon stu-
dents were treated to a presentation concerning the
Mexican holiday El Dia de los Muertos. Alejandro
Galvez, a visiting professor of sociology, gave the
presentation.

Galvez described the different concept of
death that is inherent in the Mexican culture. Life
and death are seen as closely related, like two sides
of the same coin. As life is celebrated, death is also
acknowledged. Galvez went into great detail to
describe this duality and, in addition to this, he
showed an example of an altar that is common in
Mexican homes.

The Day of the Dead is a combination of
ancient .Aztec rituals and those of Catholicism
which were imposed upon the Aztecs after the
Conquista period. It occurs every year on the

second day of November, and it is the day when the
spirits of deceased loved ones come back to the
realm of the living. This celebration reflects the
emergence of the mestizo culture shortly after the
Conquista. While the native Aztec peoples were
rapidly dying out and immigration from Spain was
relatively insignificant, the remaining Spaniards
and Aztecs intermixed creating the mestizo peoples.
The Day of the Dead shows the synthesis of these
two groups through the popularity of both Catho-
lic symbols as well as those of Aztec origin, such
as edible skulls. Another example of this mix is
what is known as bread of the deceased. It is made
of very sweet dough that has a symbol baked into
the top that, depending on how you turn the loaf,
resembles either a skull and crossbones or a cruci-
fix.

Galvez explained that the Day of the Dead is
celebrated both publicly and privately in Mexico.
Parades are held with people dressing up in skel-
eton costumes often adorned with flowers. People

Davidson hosts former director
of Fulbright Commission

By ANNA KVANVIG
Staff Writer

On Wednesday night, a small group of David-
son students and other community members met
inthe Union Homeroom to hear Dr. Ulrich Littman,
former Executive Director of the German Fulbright
Commission, speak on “The U.S and Germany:
The Waning of the Transatlantic Partnership.”
The Fulbright Commission is an exchange pro-
gram primarily for students, but also includes
programs for professors and journalists. The pur-
pose of the program is to promote understanding
between nations through academic and cultural
exchange. In 1952 Germany became the 25"
member to join the program and since then over
30,000 Americans’ and Germans have been. in-
volved. .

Littman began his talk first by apologizing
for “being boring” and by not apologizing for his
“lack of political correctness.” He went on to
speak of the changes in the relationship between

Germany and the United States.

Germany’s thoughts toward the United States,
Littman reported, were declining. In his first
speech on International Relations, Chancellor
Schroeder did not even mention the United States.
According to Littman, the changes in government
were an essential part of the diminishing relation-
ship. He also said that the disappearance of U.S.
troops in Berlin caused the Germans not to take the
United States as seriously. Overall, it was simply
a “change in attitude, change in generation.”

Littman spoke about the German “stereo-
types” of the Americans. For instance, in small
East German towns there are plaques that say,
“Anglo-Americans destroyed this city.” Also, the
opinion of the United States since the Vietnam
War declined as the Americans were viewed as
killing the “poor little Vietnamese kids.” Thus, the
Germans find it somewhat difficult to understand
the American way of thinking.

After the talk, Littman opened up the floor for a
question and answer session, an opportunity that
many in the audience appreciated.

INTERESTED IN RESEARCH
IN BIOMEDICAL SCIENCES ?

Summer Undergraduate Research Program in

Cell and Molecular
PHYSIOLOGY

University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill

At Carolina, you can study the molecular
basis of diseases such as cancer,
cystic fibrosis, schizophrenia,
muscular dystrophy and heart disease.

Independent project in a faculty lab will introduce rising
juniors and seniors to graduate school life.
$2500 stipend, housing and meals for 10-week program.
Applications due March 1, 2000

Contact Sharon Milgram by e-mail: milg@med.unc.edu
Visit our website: www.med.unc./physiolo/

frequently go to cementaries, singing and reading
poetry. Very often, candlelight processions light
up the nighttime sky. Privately, rememberance
and celebration of one’s deceased relatives is done
through the construction of an altar dedicated to
that person. This altar often has their picture and
personal effects on it, and is always characterized
by having several levels to it. These levels repre-
sent their passing from this world to the next.
These altars must specifically have nine things,
the first being salt. Salt represents the purification
of the dead.

The other necessary elements are candles,
incense, water, flowers, toys, bread, a miniature
bed, El Perro Azteca, and tomales. The candles are
meant to represent the sun as life and light, while
the incense is supposed to help the souls travel
from this world to the next. Flowers, especially
marigolds, were also placed on these altars to
symbolize the sun again. Water was to help the
soul regain its strength for the journey to and from

_WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999 _

Day of the Dead celebrated at Davidson

i

this world is difficult. The toys are for the children
to play with to help them share in the celebration.
These toys would also be appropriate if one were ,
mourning the passing of a child. The bread and
tamales are meant to refresh the soul like the water.
The bed provides the soul with rest, and El Perro
Azteca is a small figurine of an Aztec dog repre-
senting the Aztec nature of the holiday. The
deceased person’s favorite food is usually placed
on the altar, and sometimes small skulls of sugar
can be found as well. These skulls represent the
duality of death once more, for the skull is death
but it is sweet as well.

Alejandro Galvez’ presentation provided
Davidson, especially those who do not take Span-
ish, with a provocative insight to a very beautiful
Mexican tradition. Galvez showed that El Dia de
Los Muertos is definitively not Halloween, and
that a tradition that may at first look macabre is
actually a beautiful celebration of deceased loved
ones.

Spee notabducted by aliens... notyet...

By Dave Love
Guest Writer

Finding a believer in UFO’s is almost as
challenging as finding the aliens that inhabit such
acraft. Few people subscribe to the notion of extra

‘terrestrials, and even fewer will disclose their

views publicly. Robert Hastings, a recent speaker
in the 900 Room, ardently believes in aliens.

The Speakers Committee brought him to speak at
Davidson College. Hastings has spoken at five
hundred colleges in the last two decades as part of
a grass roots movement to inform the public about

UFOs (Unidentified Flying Object). His presenta-

tion and testimony on aliens was based govern-
ment documents recovered through the Freedom
of Information Act and interviews from thirty eye-
witness accounts of UFOs. Most of these declas-
sified documents deal with UFO “fly-by’s” of
major nuclear facilities.

The first such encounter Hastings had with UFOs
was at Malmstrom Air Force Base in 1967 (http:/
/www.malmstrom.af.mil/). Hastings viewed a
space ship while working on the base. He con-
tends.the UFO was “very interested in our deadly

toys,” referring to the missile silos located on the’

base. Since that day 32 years ago, Hastings has set
out to unravel the mystery of UFOs.

One classic example of UFO sightings and alien
troublemaking is the Great Northeast Blackout.
On November 9, 1965, all of the northeastern U.S.
and parts of Canada lost electric power. Extra

Terrestrial enthusiasts correlate the power outage
to the three UFO sightings that day, all near major
power plants.

Coincidence aside, most ateleery of UPO sightings
to begin with. The Pentagons official explanation
of UFOs is: 1) solar reflections of low hanging
clouds, 2) small meteors, 3) flattened hail stones.
Hastings contends that the United States Govern-
ment is holding back information on aliens. He
petitioned the CIA to release certain government
documents under the Freedom of Information Act.
The CIA denied his request on grounds of retain-
ing national security. Some declassified govern-
ment documents related to UFO’s are at http://
www.blackvault.com/.

The validity of UFO sightings is arguable but
aliens have definitely entered popular culture.
Alien stories abound in music, literature, and cin-
ema. Most Americans, whether teetotalers or
zealous believers, have heard of aliens, UFO’s _
were brought into the limelight in 1947 at Roswell
Air Force Base in New Mexico. It was alleged that
a UFO crashed in the desert (area 51) at the
military base. Our government issued a public
statement that the Unidentified Flying Object was
actually a weather balloon. The Roswell incident
set off a barrage of media coverage with nothing
left sacred. Since then aliens have assimilated into
mainstream culture. Speaking about aliens is no
longer taboo but rather innovative. Hastings, a
fervent believer in UFOs, gave a stirring rendition
on his conviction in aliens.

The Department of Economics is pleased to announce that applications for the Ernest
Finney Patterson Awards are now being accepted. The awards recognize and honor the
life of Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of Economics at Davidson College

(1957-1979) and social activist.

From the Ernest Finney Patterson endowment, the

Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1200 a year to subsidize formal
study, research, field work, or community service by currently enrolled students at
Davidson College, that promotes improving society and bettering the human condition,
consistent with the personal ideals of Professor Patterson. Applications can be obtained
from Prof. Peter Hess, Chair of the Economics Department, and are due by February
1, 2000. The recipients of Patterson grants, who will be notified by March 1, 2000, will
also receive a copy of Professor Patterson’s book of poetry, Poems for the People,
published posthumously, which eloquently reflects his concerns with social and
economic justice. Recipients of Patterson grants will be expected to submit a final

report.

Contact Dr. Hess for more information.

COFFEE & TEA

At your request...

NOW SERVING LIGHT LUNCH
for peaple on the go!

Quiche ¢ Veggie Wraps ¢ Sandwiches

128 S, Main Street * Davidson * 895-9090

