‘LT U

By ALIsoN KALETT
Sports Editor

“We will beat Georgia Southern one last
time.”

In front of packed stands, coaches, and com-
petitors from ten other schools, the Davidson
swimming and diving team fulfilled their mission.

The women’s team never relinquished first
place as they won the championships for the third
consecutive year, defeating second-place finisher
Louisville by 42 points. The men’s team, while not
achieving a three-peat, defeated Georgia Southern
and claimed second-place behind Southern States
newcomer Western Illinois University.

On Thursday the women’s team claimed a
lead which they would never relinquish. “We got
a lead and did not look back,” said head coach and
women’s swim coach of Rich DeSelm.

According to DeSelm, the key to the ‘Cats
early success was depth in the 500 meter freestyle
where sophomore Abby Clark and freshmen Heidi
Hester, Starr Daniell, and Leisa Rossello qualified
for the finals.

“The depth in the 500 free got us off to a great
start,” DeSelm said. “We are a deeper and more
talented a team than we were last year.”

Building on the momentum generated from
their success in the 500 meter freestyle, the lady

retiring?”

The annual Southern States meet took place last weekend.

“Wait; you mean
Michael Jordan is

--Anonymous member of Davidson’s
women’s basketball team.

@\/ \

ge

ay

Wildcats continued to turn in solid performances
throughout the weekend.

Junior Mary Shell Brosche had an outstanding
meet, winning the 200 and 400 yard individual
medleys and the 200 yard backstroke. Brosche is now
9-0 in Southern States competition in those three
events over her three-year Davidson career. “Brosche
was outstanding.” DeSelm said. “She was just off
record times. She is a tough competitor and we can
always count on her.” Brosche was named coswimmer
of the meet.

Junior Britta Toleman took fourth in the 100
meter breastroke while the trio of freshman Starr
Daniell, junior Jennifer Howard, and freshman Erin
Bailey completed a third, fourth, and fifth place sweep
in the 100 meter butterfly.

Also shining for the victorious Wildcat women
was a group of freshmen including Daniell who swam
the second fastest time in Davidson history in the 500
meter freestyle. Beth Summerlin enjoyed a solid
third-place showing in the 200 meter individual med-
ley. Kendra Berner earned three life-time best times in
the 50, 100, and 200 meter freestyles while Leisa
Rossello swam her way to a new school record in the
mile.

Women’s Swimming
Mary Shelle Brosche
Brosche earned co-swimmer of
the meet honors at Southern
States, improving her career S.S.
record in the 200 & 400 yard
medleys and 200 yard back-
stroke to 9-0.

Wildcat junior Britta Toleman leaps into action in a relay last Friday.

ig Beg SA

Swimming caps off season with a splash

ONMike

\nderson

Maen

On the boards, freshman diver Liz Nugent
set new school records on both the one and three
meter events en route to two second place fin-
ishes. With her performance, Nugent becomes the
first diver in Davidson history to earn a trip to the
NCAA zonal championships to be held later this
year. .

Another strong finisher for DeSelm was
Shelley Conroy, who swam as a member of the
non-scoring team. The freshman from Florida,
who grew up in nearby Concord, made. the
Davidson all-time top-ten lists in both the mile
and the 200 meter breastroke. :

“She (Conroy) made selecting the scoring
team very challenging,” DeSelm said. “She is
fully capable of competing and scoring.”

Finally, the leadership of senior co-captains
Allison Hobgood and Kathleen Paffenroth was
the final ingredient necessary to the ‘Cats success.
While Hobgood and Paffenroth enjoyed solid
performances, taking fifth and sixth respectively
in the 400 meter individual medley, their previous
Southern States experience was invaluable.

“They were great leaders,” said DeSelm.
“Paffenroth (who was recently ill) used the meet

Men’s & Women’s Basketball

Davidson hoopsters square off
against the winner of Wofford/
Western Carolina and Furman
University on Friday at-2:30 PM,
and 11:00 AM, respectively.

y

as a challenge to be an inspiration for the
team.”

Mixed-emotions were the story of the
men’s meet. “We always come out to win,”
DeSelm said. ‘I’m disappointed that we didn’t
achieve our goal, but I’m pleased with the way
the team came back (from a 73-point deficit
heading into the final day of competition).”

Standouts on the men’s team included
junior Scott Harper who had an “outstanding
meet,” breaking his own record in the 400
meter individual medley en route to a second
place finish.

Also, sophomore Kurt Hirsekorn and
freshman Graham Gravely claimed third and
sixth places respectively in the 400 IM.
Hirsekorn also joined Harper, junior Terry
Dolch, and freshman Michael Warner in eatn-
ing a fourth-place finish in the 400 medley
relay. Sophomore Adam Kennedy took sixth
place in the grueling, 65-lap mile event.

Yet, just as was the case with the women’s
team, the seniors were key in the ‘Cats ability
to move up from fourth to second place on the
last day of competition.

“They are the heart and soul of the team,”
DeSelm said. “Their leadership and experi-
ence is invaluable and they are so vital to us.”

Michael McCabe, Jay Rosenquest, and
Bill Patterson all swam lifetime best times,
while Jason Prince had several personal-best
split times. Rosenquest took fifth in the 100
breastroke and he joined fellow senior Patterson
to take fourth in the 200 medley relay.

“Both the men’s and women’s teams
worked really well together,” said Brosche.
“Everyone supported each other throughout
the meet.”

Following the meet, several Davidson
swimmers were named to the AllSouthern
States team. On the women’s side the honor
went to Brosche, Daniell, Hester, and
Summerlin, while Harper, sophomore Sam
Kuykendall, Gravley, Hirsekorn, and Dolch
claimed spots on the men’s team.

Next on the schedule for the ‘Cats is a trip
to the ECAC competition this weekend in
Sewell, New Jersey. Davidson will compete
against 50 other teams and hopes to earn a top-
five finish.

Men’s Basketball Wrap-Up. 19
Men’s S.C. Tournament Preview 18
Landry Kosmalski hits 1000 18
Women’s Basketball Wrap-Up 17

Women’s SC Tournament Preview 16
Senior Day Celebrations for WBB 16
Men’s & Women’s Track : 15
Seth Davis Commentary 15

