THE DAVIDSONIAN

ASKIDNEGO @HOTMAIL.COM

Watch as IdnEgo, your unconscious lustful
thoughts on one hand and conscious, morally
aware thoughts on the other; navigate all of your
troubled and worrisome relationships. Tune in
each week to hear Freud’s psychoanalytic cre-
ations Id and Ego face off against each other as
they offer their sage advice. Want to hear what
IdnEgo have to say about your relationship di-
lemma?

Send your questions to:
AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. (All inquiries will be
kept confidential.) Please note: All “advice” of-
fered in this column is purely for entertainment
purposes and should not be considered profes-
sional clinical advice.

Dear IdnEgo,
I had a great sum-

_ Arts & LiviNG.
IdnEgo — Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

waiting for me (my roommate let him in). When I
got there, he was flipping through a stack of
pictures that I had just gotten developed from the
summer. There were a couple of pictures with me
and this other guy — nothing incriminating, but
definitely suggestive. He didn’t say anything, but
I think he’s suspicious. He kept telling me that he
missed me and was so glad to be back together.
Now I’m beginning to feel guilty and wondering
whether I should come clean. Any suggestions?
Thanks, Looking for advice.

Dear Looking for advice: Glad to hear that
you had a good summer - especially that “hooking-
up” part — -way to fulfill those basic needs!
Regarding the pictures and anything else - I’ve got
2 words for you — DE NY — and I'm not talking
about Delaware and New York. I’m talking about

— fervently de-

mer. I was a camp coun-
selor - no homework, no
exams, no worries, and a
great summer fling with
another counselor. It re-
ally was just a summer
fling - we hooked up a
couple of times, nothing
serious, and I haven’ t spo-
ken to him since we left.

Glad to hear that you had a good
summer — especially that “hooking-
up” part — way to fulfill those basic
needs! Regarding the pictures and
anything else — I’ve got 2 words for
you — DE NY — and I’m not talking
about Delaware and New York.

nying any and all
implications that
you were any-
thing but entirely
faithful. The guy
in the picture —
youcan’tevenre-
member his name
— you think he
was one of the
other girl’s boy-

Here’s my problem. |
have a boyfriend here at
school, and we had been going out since the
beginning of the last semester. I had already
decided not to mention this other guy to him since
it wasn’t serious. Besides, we did not specifically
say that we were going to be “faithful” — we
didn’t really talk about it. Anyway, last night

friends visiting
for the weekend.
Telling your boyfriend anything else would be a
waste of time - you'll make him feel bad and
probably mess up your relationship. This was
NOT a big deal — just a simple fling. Just think,

your boyfriend probably had his own fling(s).
Summer’s over and with it anything that hap-
pened, its a good memory, move on, and bag the
guilt.

Yours truly, Id

Dear Looking for advice: A summer fling
that doesn’t mean anything? Well, perhaps the
summer guy doesn’t mean anything to you. But
flings always mean something — you just have to
figure out what they mean. There are a couple of

questions that you might want to think about .
before you decide whether to tell your boyfriend.‘

First, why did you have a “meaningless” fling?
Second, why are
you feeling guilty

_ TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER

when you feel like you’ ve done something wrong
— what exactly do you feel you did wrong?
And finally, your wanting to do the right
thing. This is a good instinct, and I commend you
for it. In deciding what to do, you’ ve got to ask
yourself how serious this relationship is to you.
Do you really like your boyfriend, and want to
have a meaningful relationship? Or are you still
unsure and need some more time together to think
about it? Or have you decided that it is not a long-
term relationship, but it is better than nothing

-now? If your answer comes anywhere close to the

first two questions, it is better to tell your boy-
friend and establish a good basis of trust.. It might
be hard going, but
you must empha-

about it now?
And, finally, why
are you feeling
like you need to
square things up
with your boy-
friend?

soon.

On the other hand, if this guy is simply
chopped meat until you meet the next best
thing, I'd just keep quiet and break it off

size that it was a
way of testing out
your feelings for
him and that you
are telling him
because you want
to build a better

Regarding
the fling, itsounds
like you and your boyfriend are not yet fully
committed to each other, which might account for
wanting to try out someone else to test the relation-
ship with your boyfriend. Or perhaps you're
simply not ready for a commitment, and this was
a way of telling yourself that. Or perhaps you
simply like meeting new people and hooking up.

Why is the guilt appearing now? Did you
think that you wouldn’t feel guilty when you were
hooking up? Are you feeling guilty because he has
been faithful and you haven’t? Guilt only appears

relationship. I

would also tell
him that this was a one-time event and that you’ re
pretty clear about your feelings and that it won’t
happen again.

On the other hand, if this guy is simply
chopped meat until you meet the next best thing,
I'd just keep quiet and break it off soon. You do
absolutely: no good by causing him additional
angst about a break-up and the humiliation of you
fooling around with someone else. Good luck.

Your friend, Ego

when I got back to my dorm room, he was

Movie Review:
Mickey Blue Eyes

By Louis ULMER
Staff Writer

Putting aside my already insignificant
amount of respect for Hugh Grant, I watched
Mickey Blue Eyes inhopes that the movie was
made to bea movie, rather than another “come-
back” for the Brit. My wish was granted, as
it made for a worth-seeing flick.

As Michael Felgate, Grant runs auctions
at a New York art-house. Felgate’s patience
has been run to the limit, as the delivery truck
never arrives on time and always shows up
without all the ordered pieces. After a hair-
pulling day at the office, Michael proposes to
his girlfriend of three months, Gina (Jeanne
Tripplehorn). The proposal leads to several
emotional scenes, which in turn result in
Michael discovering that Gina’s father is a
mobster. After Michael convinces Gina that
this doesn’t bother him, Gina finally accepts
the ring...with one catch of course — that
Michael promises not to get involved with
Gina’s father, Frank (James Caan) and his
mob buddies, including’Burt Young as Vito
“The Butcher” Graziosi. ‘

When the delivery truck unexpectedly
shows up early with all the art ordered, Michael
learns what being part of the Family is all
about. A little pressure from the mob helps
any situation, and now Michael must help
them back — by laundering money at his
auctions. This is done by selling Johnny’s
(Vito’s crazy son) art work to those who owe-
the mob money. His ability to stay away from
Frank’s business goes downhill from here,
and he finds himself in a, circle of lies with
Gina. Eventually, Michael earns his mob-
name, Mickey Blue Eyes, followed by a pain-
ful scene in which Hugh Grant attempts to
speak mob-talk.

The real laughs come during Grant’s
scenes of absolute confusion and Caan’s hu-
miorous “it will be okay” attitude. Together
they team up to be an almost clueless pair of
mobsters who share Gina as their only true
love in the world.

gave™

Lexington

Charlotte, NC

Donald L. Copeland, MD

Medical School: 1963, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill
Residency: Georgia Hospital, Macon, GA

qe”

Jeffrey A. Berger, MD
Medical School: 1995, University of

Kentucky College of Medicine,

Residency: Carolinas. Medical Center,

Lee Beth Lindquist, MD

Medical School: 1987, University of
Mississippi School of Medicine, Jackson
Residency: University of Mississippi
Family Medicine Residency, jackson

WE'VE CHANGED!
STUDENT HEALTH CENTER

MEET OUR NEW MEDICAL STAFF!
Now provided by Lakeside Family Medicine

Longer Sick Call (1:30 — 5:00 M-F)
means more appointments available!

pgoved
mre - @ All-physician staffing! (No PAs)

Female physician now on staff!

MEDICAL SERVICES

David M. Cook, MD

Medical School: | 990, University of
North Carolina School of Medicine,
Chapel Hill

Residency: Carolinas Medical Center,
Charlotte, NC

Thomas E. Jenike, MD

Medical School: |995, Ohio State
University School of Medicine,
Columbus

Residency: Carolinas Medical Center,
Charlotte, NC

T. Micheal Sherrill, MD

Medical School: | 990, East Carolina

University of Medicine, Greenville, NC

Residency: Pitt County Memoria!
Hospital, Greenville, NC

