M

By Laura Denton & MIKE ANDERSON
Sports Writer & Editor

Contributing: J.D. Lauramore

After two weeks of mounting frustration and
increasing doubts, the Wildcats found themselves
in an eerily-optimisti¢ predicament—with a 1-2
record after three weeks of play.

Though Tim Landis and his:squad are quick
toacknowledge that.’99 is a season all its own, fans
of Wildcat football enthusiastically recall that last
year’s 8-2 season was born from a 1-2 record after
week three.

Riding the’ tide of a reasserted defensive
front, the ‘Cats stormed their way to victory,
shutting out the University of the South 21-0 atop
a sun-splashed Smith field while tallying the 350"
victory in program history.

Sewanee opened their ’99 season with blow-
out victories over Hampden-Sydney and Rose-
Hulman. But in Davidson, North Carolina on
Saturday, the Tiger offense seemed every bit as
impotent and over-hyped as. Hurricane Floyd.

After both teams’ opening drives vanquished
into a series of exchanged punts, Davidson blew
the game open with an 80-yard touchdown drive.
Eric Ferguson totaled 76 rushing yards on the
drive, dashing 53 yards down field on the first play
from scrimmage and eventually finishing what he

“T’ve never been happier
for a player.”

--Head Football Coach
Tim Landis, referring to
quarterback Shaun
Tyrance

Anna Judy
@ Shaun Tyrance keyed the

Wildcat offense to a season-high
three touchdowns on Saturday.

=> PF © =e
O N

started, diving into the end zone for
a two-yard touchdown carry.

Ferguson ignited the crowd with
that 53-yard scamper (the longest of
his career), blitzing through the Ti-
ger line untouched and then effort-
lessly dragging a helpless Sewanee
defensive back for much of the dura-
tion of the play. The carry was a
premonition of great things to come
on that day for the senior from
Maggie Valley, North Carolina—
Ferguson earned his 2000" career
yard, joining Wildcat great Ray
Sincair ’81 as the only Davidson
backs in over a hundred years to
accomplish this feat.

Shrugging off post-game praise,
Ferguson claimed, “It’s really a tes-
tament to the offensive line that I’ ve
run behind for four years. It makes
my mom proud, but I take more
personal satisfaction from us getting
the victory today.”

Given their first lead of the sea-
son, the Wildcat defense showed no
interest in giving it up. Highlighted
by key sacks from Bo Henderson,
Andre Carelock, and Kevin
Strange, Davidson contained Sewanee on the
ground, and shut them down in the air (the only
Sewanee pass that did not fall incomplete on the
day was intercepted by Donnie Johnson). By the
half, the ‘Cats had accrued 201 yards on 30 plays
from scrimmage, while limiting Sewanee to but 37
yards on 31 plays.

Davidson struck again early in the third quar-
ter. After junior halfback Jon DeBord carried the
ball down to the I-yard line, Ferguson capped off
the drive with his second touchdown of the day.
Freshman Daniel Hanks knocked the subsequent
extra point, extending the ‘Cats lead to 14-0.

The final score of the day came courtesy of
the Wildcats’ notorious special teams squad. Af-
ter the ‘Cat defense snuffed out yet another at-
tempt at a Sewanee drive, the Tigers were forced
to punt out of their own end zone. Junior Corey
Crawford blocked the punt, and junior Adam
Stockstill scooped up the ball for another Wildcat
touchdown.

“T kind of challenged the punt team this week,
teasing that we hadn’t gone two weeks without a
blocked punt in a long while,” said Landis. His
team answered the challenge. “We had great punt
coverage today, the best performance I’ ve seen in
the past two years.”

After two weeks of platooning with a pair of
freshmen, junior quarterback Shaun Tyrance re-
asserted his role as the director of the Wildcat
spread option offense. Tyrance ran the option
beautifully, keeping the Sewanee defense ever off
balance. “I’ve never been happier for.a player,”
praised Landis, remarking on the junior’s sus-
tained success after a pair of knee surgeries.

Davidson travels Saturday to Emory & Henry,
a team that handed the ‘Cats one of their only two
losses in “98. “It’s a big game against our long-

\ time nemesis,” said Landis. “We haven’t beaten

them in seven years, and they haven’t lost a home
game in something like forty games.”

“We’ ve goteveryone fired up,” said Ferguson,
looking ahead to Saturday’s clash. “Hopefully it
will just be momentum building upon momen-

ERIC FERGUSON

(see box to right)

“It makes my mom proud, but I take
more satisfaction from us getting
the victory the day.”

Wildcat senior fullback Eric Ferguson, graciously commenting on his
record-breaking day on Saturday. Ferguson passed the 2000 career yard
mark, racked up a personal high 184 yards, and exploded for a career-long

53-yard run from scrimmage.

7 —

Football hands Sewanee stunning shut-out, improves to 1-2

down the Tiger offense,

for the first time in the coach’s °

a 4

@ Eric Ferguson rushed for a career-high 184 yards on Saturday. Anna Judy

@ Andre Carelock (#92), Rowan Driscoll (#98), helped shut 4”
holding Sewanee to but 74 yards.

a

* ~\
¥ 2

~~

@ Andre Carelock (#92) has a team-high six sacks. Anna Judy

MEN’S FOOTBALL

Tim Landis’ ‘Cats trek to
Emory & Henry on Saturday,
looking to defeat the Wasps

seven-year tenure. Emory &
Henry is coming off a 10-0
1998 campaign, and hasn’t
lost a home contest in over 40
games. Kickoff is 1 PM.

