10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

IdnEgo

Relationship advice for friends and family, foes and lovers

IdnEgo are Freud’s psychoanalytic voices
that. influence all relationship decisions. Id, who
represents the unconscious and licentiousness in
all of us, rarely agrees with Ego, who touts the
conscious and morally-aware course of action.
Tune in each week to hear them face off against
each other as they analyze your relationship and
provide counsel.

Want to hear what IdnEgo have to say about
your relationship dilemma? Or have any com-
ments about their advice? Send your questions and
thoughts to: AskIdnEgo@hotmail.com. All in-
quiries will be kept confidential. (Please note: All
advice offered in this column is purely for enter-
tainment purposes and should not be considered
professional clinical advice.)

Dear IdnEgo,

Help!!! One of my good friend’ s wears clothes
that make her look like she’s going down to the red
light district on a Friday night. She doesn’t just
wear these clothes out either — she wears them all
the time — to class and everything. She’s rather
large up top and busts out of her blouses — and her
skirts are so short she might as well wear a g-string

around campus. Other people definitely look and
stare and laugh behind her back. She thinks that
she looks really sexy. I just don’t know what to say
to her. I’ve suggested that we check out the Old
Navy store and she has no interest. To be honest,
I’m not sure I want to continue to hang around her
looking like she does. She looks like a ho!

Sincerely,

In Good Taste

Dear “In Good Taste,”

Hey — you know that bitter taste in your
mouth — its called jealousy. Seems to me like
you'd like some of the attention that your friend is
getting —wouldn’t you? But maybe you can’t quite
fill out that tube top or mini like she can, Id thought
so. But hey — this is no reason to bring your friend
down. My advice — instead of taking your friend
shopping — let her take you shopping - let a little
of that Id come shining through. Lose that “Old
House on the Prairie” look and shoot for more of
the “Wild on the Prairie” look. Who knows, maybe
you'll end up catching something wild — Grrrrrr.

In_your best interest,

Id

* May 24- July 4

WE” SAN OSA
Davidson in Gha
Summer 2000

* One Davidson course credit
* Weekend trips to other regions of Ghana
* Cultural and service opportunities

An information session for students interested in
Davidson’s West Africa Summer Program at the
University of Cape Coast, Ghana will be held

Tuesday, November 16
at 7:00 pm
in Chambers 120.

For more information, contact Dr. Donna Molinek, x2313.

=

na

Dear “In Good Taste,”

Don’t listen to Id — Id is a moron and hasn’t
had a friend in nearly 1,000 years! First, have a
little sympathy for your friend — look we are all
exposed to Victoria Secret catalogs and Ally
McBeal - all of a sudden girls are supposed to
fashion their wardrobe from the equivalent of a
dinner napkin. Fact is — there is a place and a time
— and that may be never for your friend with her
figure. Listen — this is what you do, sit your friend
down and tell her that she should save her really
hot outfits for the weekend — then guys will be
really turned on when they see her. At least you
might get her to stop looking like a slut while she
(and everyone else) is trying to learn Greek. The
important thing is that when she does wear tamed
down clothing that you and your friends must
praise hear like crazy and tell her how good she
looks. Once she has done this, you might start
looking for other girls who wear inappropriate
outfits and say things like, “Doesn’t that girl look
like she’s about to hop on the ho train!” Good luck,
hope you friend catches a clue before she catches
a cold (or worse)!

Your friend,

Ego

ARTS kK LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1999

Be aware,
not mean

By Linpsey VIALLA AND MARGARET DASHER
Guest Writers

Have you ever emerged from a classroom
feeling frustrated? Perhaps areview didn’t go the
way ‘that you had hoped after hours of study
groups and review sessions. When you walk
through the halls of Chambers, making your way
back to the peace and quiet of your dorm room,
are you surly to those you pass in the hall? Do you
smile and offer a warm hello? Are you too
wrapped up in despising some teacher for giving
you a B- on your research paper to acknowledge
those that make an effort to say hi? You don’t
intend to be mean, but how are those around you
interpreting your behavior?

This week at Davidson is officially Don’t
Be Mean Awareness Week. It’s a week set aside
to remember the good in everyone and every-
thing. Don’t Be Mean Awareness Week’s spon-
sors, the women of 1“ Little, encourage you to
focus on reaching out and being friendly to oth-
ers. Forget about your bad day, and try to make
someone else’s alittle better. Come find the table
in the Union and pick up a sticker and silver
ribbon to wear in celebration of looking for the
silver lining in every gray cloud. Put on your
biggest smile and your rose colored glasses and
see the world from a whole new angle!

CROSSWORD SOLUTIONS

€ kK

Hoi

On the Scene ar Daviwson COLLEGE

Into the Woods Week!

Good Morning Coffee and Doughnuts. 8:00 -
8:30 a.m. Chambers 1st Floor Hallway.

Michael Gordon Own and “Across State Lines”
Exhibits. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all week at the
Belk Visual Arts Center.

Deidre Prosen “Totems”. 12:00 - 4:00 p.m. all
week in the GRC. *

Southern Nature Writers Panel Discussion. 3:30
- 5:00 p.m. inthe 900 Room. A reading occurs later
in the day, from 7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
“Gods and Monsters.” Starting at 9:30 p.m. in

~  |the 900 Room.

Coffehouse. 8:15 - 11:15 a.m.
in the 900 Room.

Friday Afternoon Club. 5:00 -
7:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.

(Don’t Forget about the art ex-
hibits at the VAC! They’re free.)

ence Room.

Jumpin’ Java. Coffee
and triscuits. 8:00 - 11:55

p.m. atthe Outpost.

Liederabend. 4:00 - 5:30
p.m. in the Guest House.
Chess Club. 7:30 - 8:30
p.m. in the Union Confer-

Juggling. 7:00 - 9:00 p.m. in the
Morrison Room.

Alice Fulton Poetry Reading. 7:30.-
9:00 p.m. in the 900 Room. ~
Jumpin’ Java. Outpost. 8:00 - 11:55
p.m.

pI; Ey SE AY

ed at
Master Class-NC Dance Theatre. 7:00-8:30 p.m.

DCPC.

the 900 Room.

NC Dance Theatre Perfor- "
mance! 8:00 - 9:30 p.m. in’
Hodson Hall. :

asia Ene be ie ot neath
NC Dance Theatre, again! Per-
forming at 2:00 p.m. and 8:00

aR

uttin’ Honey.

Saturday Night Live. 9:30 p.m.

in Hodson Hall John Dunwoody ’00, Ad-

a Fad Diets. 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. in the 900 vance Geometry eCE p- ip in Hodéon Hall,

Fall Choral Concert! tion! Begins at 7:30 @
8:00 - 9:30 p.m: in the College Union. epee ety Bam. in

John Dunwoody Exhibition.

See this senior’s art work up in
the Union Gallery.
Frank Bidart Poetry Reading.
7:30 - 9:00 p.m. in the 900
Room:
Students Piano Recital. 8:00
- 9:30 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

" Jumpin’ Java. Outpost. 8:00
p.m. - almost midnight.

