THE DAVIDSONIAN

Appointment to professorship confirms

Prof. Shaw’s commitment to Humanities

Press RELEASE

College Relations

Brian J. Shaw, a political science
professor attracted to Davidson Col-
lege in 1982 because of its interdiscipli-
nary Humanities Program, has been
named as the college’s next E. Craig
Wall, Jr. Distinguished Teaching Pro-
fessor in Humanities.

The two-year appointment permits
Shaw to teach exclusively in the Hu-
manities Program, and to develop a
workshop for other faculty members
involved in it.

Shaw said he is enthusiastic about
the opportunity to focus on Humanities,
a two-year sequence of four courses
designed to introduce students to West-
ern history, literature, art, philosophy,
and religion. He said, “The opportunity
to teach in ‘Humes’ was one of the
reasons I applied to Davidson in the
first place, so the chance to devote my-
self exclusively to the program for two
years is extremely attractive.

Shaw continued, “My involvement
with Humanities has put me in close
contact with colleagues from other de-

partments who know a lot about things
that interest me, and I’ve learned a

tremendous amount from them. It
has allowed me to get that great
liberal arts education I never re-
ceived in undergraduate school.”
Show has been heavily in-
volved with Humanities throughout
his Davidson career. He has taught
each of its courses, served at various
times as semester director and year
director of the second year program,
and from 1993 to 1996 chaired the
entire program. He also served on a
Humanities Task Force in fall 1997
that reviewed the program’s effec-
tiveness, and recently authored a
history of the 36-year old program.
Shaw said the Wall Professor-
ship reinforces his commitment to
interdisciplinary teaching and said
he will do what he can to reinforce
the importance of Humanities at
Davidson. He believes the Humani-
ties Task Force’s call for individual
instructors to exercise greater autonomy
in selecting curricular material should
help reinvigorate the program and at-
tract more faculty to it. “I see a need for
Humanities to refashion itself, if not

actually reinvent itself,” he said. “We
need to recast it in ways to engender the

College Communications

enthusiasm and commitment of a new
generation of teachers/scholars. One of
the program’s great strengths is strong
ties to its 1962 roots, but that’s also a
liability to the extent that the scholarly

interests of newer faculty members

aren’t necessarily the same as those
who founded the program almost
four decades ago.”

His scholarly interests center about
issues in 20th century continental
and North American political theory,
and especially those raised by phi-
losophers like Georg Lukas, Max
Horkheimer, Juergen Habermas and
John Rawls. The interdisciplinary
nature of his interest and work*is
reflected in the fact that his publica-
tions have appeared in journals of
philosophy, political science and in-
tellectual history. “My.own work
frequently crosses disciplinary
boundaries,” he noted, “and explores
issues.engaging not only political
philosophers, but literary theorists
and theologians as well.”

The Wall Professorship also pro-
vides funds for summer research,
and Shaw expects he will return to
Europe for archival research in

Frankfurt, Paris and Budapest. The ap-
pointment also allows the political sci-
ence department to hire a replacement
for Shaw during his two-year Humani-

ties appointment. He regularly teaches
courses in modern and contemporary
political philosophy and has offered
advanced seminars on arange of topics,
including Marxism, welfare state policy,
and Central American politics and reli-
gion. He plans this spring to teach anew
seminar on affirmative action.

Shaw received his undergraduate
degree in psychology from the Univer-
sity of New York at Stony Brook, then .
studied in French for a year at the Uni-
versity of Dijon. He earned his Masters
and Ph.D. degrees in political science
from UNC-Chapel Hill, and began —
teaching immediately thereafter at
Davidson. .

Shaw is Davidson’s third E. Craig
Wall , Jr. Distinguished Teaching Pro-
fessor in Humanities. The program was
established in May 1993 by friends of
the late E. Craig. Wall, Jr., a 1959
Davidson graduate and lifelong servant
of the college who was chair of the
Board of Trustees at the time the profes-
sorship was announced. The first two
holders of the chair were Robert Man-
ning and Peter Krentz.

Davidson professor wins pushcart

prize for

Press RELEASE

College Relations

One of Davidson College’s newest profes-
sors, Alan Michael Parker of the English depart-
ment, has won a 1999 Pushcart Prize in poetry, one
of the highest awards given annually for indi-
vidual English-language poems.

Parker, who joined the faculty last fall, was
honored for his poem “Vandals, Horses,” which
originally appeared in 1997 in “The Antioch Re-
view” and is now reprinted in The Pushcart Prize
XXIII; Best of the Literary Magazines and Small

heterosexuals. That is, its content, while often
highly creative and consistently entertaining,
does little for promoting a discussion of gay
and lesbian issues. Opponents of FLAG’s
sponsorship of the event made pointedly clear
that they did not oppose the Fashion Show
itself, only FLAG’s association with it. If the
Fashion Show is not serving and benefiting
lesbian and gay students at Davidson, they
asked, then why are the Friends of Lesbians
and Gays the ones putting it on?

Some gay and lesbian students present
said that the event was alienating to them as
homosexuals, for it seemed to be founded on
cultural stereotypes of homosexuals as “fash-
ion-obsessed,” “freakish;” “oversexed,” and
“outrageous.” The contention was that if
FLAG’s sponsorship of the Fashion Show
alienates homosexual and bisexual students
from the very organization intended to sup-
port them, it should not occur,

Some feel that FLAG’ decision to cease
sponsorship of the annual Fashion Show marks
aturning point in the organization’s focus and
philosophy. FLAG’s association with the
Fashion Show was in keeping with the group’s

poetry

Presses. :

Parker is one of 31 poets named as winners
this year, in addition to 38 writers of nonfiction
and fiction prose. They were selected from hun-
dreds of nominations submitted by editors of liter-
ary journals and small presses and the 200-plus
members of the Pushcart Prize editorial board. As
a winner this year, Parker joins that editorial board
and will be eligible to nominate poets for future
Pushcart Prizes. :

“Vandals, Horses” is part of Parker’s book-
length series of poems entitled The Vandals that
BOA Editions Limited will publish next May. The
book revolves around a tribe of medieval Euro-

goals of advocacy and visibility for homo-
sexual concerns. In discontinuing this asso-
ciation, FLAG has shifted its focus, now seek-
ing to provide a welcoming atmosphere, on a
much smaller scale than the Fashion Show, in
which gay and lesbian students feel supported
and at ease. Education and advocacy still
continue to be pillars of the group’s agenda,
with future projects including a screening of
the film “The Celluloid Closet” and events
bringing prominent speakers to campus.

Without the Fashion Show as its number
one event, said FLAG President Alice
Owens’00, FLAG will be able to devote more
energy, time, and resources to a wider variety
of opportunities for discussion of
homosexuality’s place at Davidson. In March,
FLAG wil] sponsor a somewhat revised ver-
sion of the Sexuality Fortm, in which the
anonymous authors of the November Libertas
sexuality articles will speak and discuss their
experiences.

The next FLAG meeting is Thursday,
January 21st at 9 in the Conference Room of
the Union. The organization invites anyone
who is interested to attend.

pean marauders, the Vandals, who are transported
into the 20th century, where they cause mayhem.
“Vandals, Horses” is a short poem concerning the
dreams of the Vandals.

Parker was raised in the New York City area

" andattended Washington University to study writ-

ing and humanities. He continued his studies to
earn an M.F.A. degree in poetry at the Columbia
University School of the Arts, where his instruc-
tors included Nobel Prize winner Joseph Brodsky.

Parker then taught at Rutgers University, the
Parsons School of Design, and Penn State Univer-
sity before joining the Davidson faculty this year
to teach courses in writing and 20th century litera-

ture.

His first book was a 1996 co-edited volume,
The Routledge Anthology of Cross-Gendered
Verse. He published the first book of his own
poetry, Days Like Prose, in spring 1997, and it was
named a “Notable Book From 1997” by the Na-
tional Book Critics Circle. He is a regular con-
tributor of book reviews for “The New Yorker”
magazine, serves as North American editor for the
forthcoming Who’s Who in 20th Century World
Poetry, and is working on a novel and a new book
of poems.

Parker and his wife, painter Felicia van Bork, |
live in Davidson with their five-year-old son, Eli.

202 S. Main St. * Davidson * 892-0604

exsempeeeses sng
