_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Pechatnov offers Russian
perspective of Kosovo crisis

By HEATHER HITE
Staff Writer

On Tuesday, April 20, Dr. Vladimir Pechatnov

gave a speech entitled “Kosovo: Russian Perspec-
tives” at 7:00 p.m. in Chambers Gallery. A profes-
sor at the Moscow Institute of International Rela-
tions, Pechatnov is dn expert on Russian and
American international affairs.
. He began the discussion of Kosovo by say-
ing, “This is really a tale of two wars,” referring to
the way the war is viewed in Russia as opposed to
the way itis viewed in United States. He explained
that he believes Americans view the war in Kosovo
as morally justifiable in order to stop the ethnic
cleansing of Albanians.

According to Pechatnov, who had just visited

his Russian homeland, the sentiments in Russia
stand almost completely opposite ours. From the
perspective of the majority of Russians, NATO is
waging a war of aggression against Kosovo. Some
in Russia believe that NATO is hiding its real
motives, using the cause of the Albanians to desta-
bilize Europe in order to increase the power of the
U.S. and fulfill its desire for world hegemony.
Pechatnov said that NATO involvement in Kosovo
is seen not merely as a blunder, but almost as a
crime. No foreign policy crisis in recent years has
produced such an outburst of emotion in Russia.

Pechatnov then expounded upon why the
Kosovo crisis has produced such strong emotion
in Russia. Russia has a history of ethnic, religious,
and cultural ties with Serbia. Russia was instru-
mental in liberating the Serbs from the Ottoman
Empire, and they backed Serbia in World War I.
Pechatnov also said that perhaps no other nation
admires Russians as much as Serbia.

Also, Pechatnov explained that there is a
sense of humiliation in Russia today. The loss of
the superpower status has produced much discon-
tent. There has been a downward spiral in the
standard of living due to the economy, and there
has been a loss of national security. Russians do
not blame themselves for these problems; they
blame them on lack of real assistance and bad
advice from the West. Russians feel a growing
dependence on the U.S. and the West in economic
and political terms, and they dislike this situation
because of a strong sense of national pride. They
feel a growing sense of exclusion and vulnerabil-
ity due to NATO expansion, and the Serbsare seen
as its first victims. The idea of “Serbia today,
maybe Russia tomorrow” is prevalent, according
to Pechatnov.

There are Russians, mainly democrats and
centrists, who sympathize with the moral goals of
U.S. involvement in Kosovo; they disagree, how-
ever, with the means taken to achieve those goals,
a position with which Pechatnov agrees.

There are several moral reasons why Rus-
sians are against the NATO involvement in Kosovo.
First, they are opposed to the use of force against
a sovereign country without a UN sanction. This
goes against both the UN charter and a Russian
agreement with NATO as well. There are also
pragmatic objections to the Kosovo crisis. Aside’
from legal and moral issues, they believe the
strategy of bombing is ineffective. Bombing is
counterproductive because it helped Milosevic to
consolidate power in his own country; the demo-
cratic opposition now backs Milosevic. Even the
democrats do not see losing Kosovo as viable
option.

Also, the bombing provided an excuse for
Milosevic to remove the Albanians from Kosovo.
Pechatnov went on to say that the military action
increased the very suffering that it sought to pre-
vent in the first place.

Pechatnov said that the general tendency in
the United States is to personalize and demonize
people, in this-case Milosevic. He is not a free
actor; he is fairly represented in Serbian culture.
Pechatnov said that, in general, “I find the Ameri-
can obsession with bombing peculiar.” Bombing
only embattles the Serbians. It also has created
some new ecological concerns due to the bombing
of oil refineries and chemical plants.

The situation in Kosovo has also had a nega-

tive impact on the Russian domestic scene. Rus-
sian communists and ultra-nationalists are pleased
because anti-American feelings are getting sup-
port. There are important elections for the Duma
and the president coming up in the next two years.
Defense of brother Slavs has become one of the
election themes.
_ To Russians, it seems that the U.S. has disre-
garded their position on the issue and its conse-
quences for Russian democracy. Pechatnov sug-
gests the following solution: the bombing should
be stopped, Yugoslavian troops should be with-
drawn, and the refugees should be returned by an
international peacekeeping force under UN aus-
pices, with Russia included. However, Pechatnov
admitted that this would only be a breathing spell
from a much greater problem — how to make
them all live together in peace.

“There are no good solutions I’m afraid,” he
stated plainly.

TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

@ Emily Katzfey receives the Agnes Sentelle Brown
- award from Dean Shandley at Convocation Wednesday afternoon.

Giduz photo, c/o College
Communications

CAMPUS

CompPILeD BY ASHLEY E. KiNG
News Editor

A female student stated that sometime be-
tween 1:25 and 1:30 a.m. on April 18th, some
unknown person(s) removed her unsecured wallet
from atable at the Black Student Coalition (BSC).
She said that she had placed the wallet on a table
in front of the house and went back into the kitchen
area. When she returned, the wallet was gone.
There are no suspects at this time; however, the
house was hosting a band, and there were many
visitors present. The olive-colored leather coach
wallet and its contents are valued at approximately

POLICE

BLOTTER

$76.00.

A student reported that between the hours of
4:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on April 17th, anunknown
person(s) removed his wallet. The student stated
that the wallet was removed from his clothing
while unattended on the football practice field.

Sometime between 10:00 p.m. on April 15th
and 11:00 a.m. on April 16th, some unknown
person(s) removed a student’s unsecured bike
while it was in the bike rack in front of Little
dormitory. The bike is a Mongoose brand,
switchback model, and it is silver in color. The
bike is also listed as being a 21-speed with a torn
black seat. Value of the bike is listed at $350.

You were much too

~ bored this year.
You should work for
Che Dabidsonian

next year.

Write articles, take pic-| |
tures, make new friends,
be the entire layout staff —
the possibilities are end-
less.

Call Wes (x6569)
or John (x6552)

Che Davidsonian|
would like to wish John
Dunwoody the best of
luck in studying for his
Junior List this week. | +

Spons ored. by

4:00-5:30

The Intimate Performance Committee

&

Delafose
eole Cowb

’
oe

French Rockin' Boogie

oy’

ue
