*

Panel disc

In conjunction with Eating Disorders Aware-
ness Week, Davidson students and health profes-
sionals presented a panel on Wednesday, February
24", entitled “Ev- :

have an eating problem. Davidson College health

educator Georgia Ringle, the Student Counseling

Center’s Dr. DeWitt Crosby, and Elisabeth

Malphurs ’99 were all instrumental in planning
the program.

A predominately female audience attended

the question

erything You and answer for-
Ever Wanted to Sewn ts matted discus-
Know AboutEat. 2¢’S hard to tell who has an eating disorder gion,atthougha
ing Problems but few men were
Didn’t Know present. The

Who to Ask.” The program was sponsored by the
Women’s Issues Committee, Student Health Lead-
ers, and Patterson Court and answered questions
ranging from how to recognize eating disorders
and treat them to how to help friends who might

audience wrote questions down on flashcards for
the panel to answer. Eating disorder survivors
Elizabeth Brantley ’01, Beth Dederick ’01, and
Chris Knox 96 sat on the panel, as well as Laura
Barrett, a behavioral therapist, the Davidson Col-
lege dietician, Andrea Adams, and a local family
physician.

post your resiunie on

Getth EeXposure
vou deserve.

Increase your visibility to leading employers and recruiters

www.goldenparachute.com

Exclusive to students and alunini of the top 100 universities

© Golden Parachute, Inc

Dederick
opened the
discussion by
reading a
poem she had
written about
her private
battle with an-
orexia. Then
the program’s
moderator,
Brenna
Tindall ’01,
began to read
the questions
for the panel
to answer.
Knox,
whois the As-
sistant Direc-
tor of
Davidson's
Annual Fund,
said it is easy
to believe a
friend with an
eating disor-
der, but that it
“is important

59.9944 to test your

judgement
over theirs.
They can con-

vince the

ew Dean selected

Continued from previous page

He has a longstanding involvement with national
testing of economics students through the Educa-

STUDY IN

OXFORD

Live with British
students in the very
center of Oxford
as an Associate
Student of a medieval
Oxford college.

Summer and graduate study
available. Since 1985,
students from 240 leading —
U.S. Colleges have studied in
Oxford through W.1.S.C.

Washington International
Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
(Suite 370)

Washington, D.C. 20002

Phone Number: (202) 547-3275

Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile; (202) 547-1470

E-mail: wisc@erols.com

tional Testing Service/College Board and is cur-
rently chief faculty consultant for the advance
placement economics test, which 30,000° high
school students take annually. His duties include
formulating the test questions, developing grading
standards, and working with about 100 high school
and college teachers to grade the completed tests.

In 1993, he and departmental colleague Peter
Hess published Principles of Economics: An Ana-
lytical Approach , which they categorize as “a
thinking student’s introductory textbook.” It de-
parted from the prevailing trend of encyclopedic
texts, replete with boxed inserts and multicolored

graphics, by focusing on economic reasoning and.

the relevance of economic theories. In 1997, they
again collaborated to publish Economic Develop-
ment: Theories, Evidence and Policies, atextbook
for economic development courses.

Ross also has a special interest in West Africa
and traveled to the area more than 20 times as a
consultant on agricultural production and effec-
tiveness of foreign aid in the region for the Depart-
ment of Agriculture the US Agency for Interna-
tional Development, and Club du Sahel of the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and De-
velopment. That work included development of a
computer program with former student Hunter
Monroe, Davidson’s 20th Rhodes Scholar, that
suggested solutions and strategies for reducing
food deficits in the region.

Ross received his bachelor’s degree from the
University of Pennsylvania and earned his Ph.D.
in economics from Boston College in 1976. He
taught for a year at the College of William and

‘Mary and was aresearch scientist at the University

of Michigan Center for Research on Economic
Development from 1976-79 before coming to
Davidson.

sses the problems of eating disorders

people around them they are fine when they really
aren’t.” Brantley added that one’s “concern and
care for a friend with an eating problem can have
more impact than judgement and confrontation.”

Dederick commented, “Eating disorders
aren’t just about bingeing/purging and depravity
of food. A body image disorder is the larger truth.
There’s the obsessive-compulsive calorie counter
or the person who weighs themselves compul-
sively. These disorders aren’ t just about eating, but
are really body image disorders.” Dederick also
emphasized that “every person’s struggle with
eating disorders is very ‘different and personal.
People don’t apply to the textbook examples only.”

Barrett added, “The defining trait with eating
problems is a negative mind. All the emotions
inside and body image concerfis affect the mind
negatively. These patients spend all day fighting a
civil war between
the positive and

friend do to themselves.” She added, “The most
important thing is to tell the friend that you love
them and that you are there for them no matter
what.”

The importance of good eating habits was
also discussed by the panel. Knox stressed the
importance of the food intake issue, saying that
anorexic and bulimic patients should “keep a food
diary, with the assistance of a nutritionist. You
figure out that you can consume a normal amount
of calories and still not gain weight.” Adams also
said, “There are two aspects to treatment. It’s like
the expression: it’s not what you are eating, but
what is eating you. There is both a nutritional and
therapy side to treatment. Without the therapy,
dietary treatment isn’t as successful.”

At the conclusion of the discussion, Knox
made a final point that eating disorder victims
should be given “con-
tinued, consistent sup-

negative part of the
mind. It’s what per-
petuates these dis-
orders and it’s a

Knox stressed continued, consistent
support, even after therapy has ended.

port, even after therapy
has ended.” She said,
“Once I wasn’t in dan-
ger of dying, people

downward spiral.”

“It’s hard to tell who has an eating disorder,”
Brantley explained. “So much of the disease is the
internal battle. I felt like I had a four- year old
ruling my mind because my self-worth was low-
ered whenever I ate something ‘bad.’ My biggest
fight was to get the 16 to 17 year-old back in
control of my body.” Brantley also described the
role of friends in her recovery. “Friends that gave
me space helped more,” she said, “friends who
focused on me and not my disorder.”

Dederick has been on both sides of the spec-
trum with eating disorders, so she especially em-
pathized with those trying to help friends with
disorders. She described a “tendency to be angry
with the friend as you watch them kill themselves.
That is an understandable, just emotion because it
is a horrendous thing and frightening to watch a

stopped calling. They
thought because I was seemingly back to normal,
that I was fine. That hurt me. I wanted to know that
I didn’t have to be sick to be cared about. That I
didn’t have to have a problem to gain attention.”
The professionals on the panel gave out their
phone numbers at the program’s end so they could
be contacted with further questions related to
eating disorders. Andrea Adams has her office in
Vail Commons and can be reached at x2831.
Laura Barrett is with the Center for Behavioral
Medicine at 366-7026. She also recommended a
publication, Gurze, which will send ten free cata-
logs if contacted at (800) 756-7533. Chris Knox
was also eager to receive calls here at Davidson, in
the Glasgow House, at x2831. The Student Coun-
seling Center, at x2451, is also always a resource
when confronting the issue of eating disorders.

Che Dabidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors

Business Manager

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

Op-Ed Editors

CARRIE ARTHUR SETH ALLEY
SCOTT REEDER
ASHLEY E. KING MELISSA ANN
Sports Edit Circulation Manager deCASTRIQUE
ports alos EUGENIA LEATH
_ MIKE ANDERSON Arts & Living Editors
ALISON KALETT Advertising Managers KELL ee cTON
Soothe PETER CLARK 8 BETHER
Ports “AYOuLpetiors DAVID JOHNSTON
BEN COVINGTON Photo Editor
n CADER HOWARD Head Copy Editors ANNA JUDY
WHITNEY BLAKE °
Web Editor PETER MARTIN Cartoonist
STEPHEN GAMBOA ALLISON SISK NATHANIEL LOTZE
__ Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON

_ CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“The V.A.C’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http:/www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

