_ FRIDAY, JANUARY 22, 1999

aa

4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or
help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate
for the job?

and numerous conferences and diversity discussions. I also know that this issue
needs lots more work, and that an SGA that is highly accessible to students will
continue to improve the situation.

4. I see the SGA moving toward a more unified and concrete purpose. I will
encourage campus committees to solidify and meet more regularly and the
Senators to better meet the needs of the their constituents. Because the SGA is
defined as the students’ major representative body, I would like to see it better
ALIER fulfill this purpose. The SGA should enetgetically and enthusiastically address

— the needs of the students.

One of the most important ways that things get done on this campus is through the committee
em. The SGA Vice president oversees this system, which means that responsibly for committees
a the Council on Minority Affairs to the Lights Out committee falls on the office. This is the most
ortant aspect of the office. Iam extremely familiar with the way the Senate works. I’ ve chaired and
yn committees, so I know both sides of that-street. Iam very comfortable with the By-Laws (which
sn’t’ mean I don’t think there are changes that can be made) and Parliamentary Procedure. But most
ortantly, I have wanted this opportunity since I was a freshman. I have the experience and I have the
re to do a really good job.

uae

4; In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or
help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate
for the job?

semesters I have seen the SGA actively trying to work on the issue of diversity by
sponsoring various events, and I hope that they will continue to deal with the issue
by addressing it openly and working toward finding solutions.

4. I see the SGA playing a more active role with the concerns of the student
body. My vision is to help this progression by encouraging senators to keep in
jy constant communication with their constituents. As the vice president I would try
) aT | my best to be a model for other senators by communicating openly with the senate
TORRE as well as the student body.

5. I enjoy people. I want to work closely with the president and the senate
sten and address the concerns of the student body. I want any vote that I cast on any given issue to
esent the best interests of the student body. I am an enthusiastic, hard working individual who would
: to serve each Davidson student and I feel that the vice presidency would allow me to do so.

THE DAVIDSONIAN |

GA VICE PRESIDENT

ls »

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?

2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do Be ro een ce see tee tae SOA mneving aad Row Sen ee ee

lan to beay beldee tH ‘ help this progression?
YON WISE pe oer ree eee Bee! se 3 5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly inaices you the best candidate
3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What for the job?

is your stance and how will you deal with it?

1. have extensive experience in the SGA. I have been a senator for two years,
serving as a freshman senator and as sophomore class president. My most recent
efforts have involved initiating and co-chairing the “Lights Out” Committee. I

also chair the Building Services Committee, which acts as a liaison between the . . . .
Physical Plant and the student body. ; immediate needs. Whether that means extending the hours and selection of the

Union cafe, sponsoring a race relations forum, or lobbying for a constant 24 hour
. . a: study facility on campus, the SGA has always worked expediently and efficiently
2. to b A

t plan to bridge the gap between the Senate and the President by building in response to student outcry. The SGA must not lose the ability to listen and react.

relationships with the Senate body. Many times the president envisions a goal and : . . ; ie
the responsibility falls on the VP to make that goal a reality. By building \ DANE ERICKSON y The progression must move forward by increasing the listening.

relationships in the Senate and knowing each senator’s individual qualities, I will “.. A
be able to delegate the right jobs to the right people.

sponsored events. This resolution was a first step in the right direction.

5. Because of my involvement around the campus, I can relate to many different
types of students including Patterson Court house members and athletes. In addition, I believe I can bring
energy and excitement to the job. As: chairperson of the Intercouncil, consultant to the President,
important member of the SEC, and senator in the SGA, the VP needs experience, energy, anda good grasp
of the students’ concerns. I believe I have all three traits.

3. One of the most pressing issues facing the SGA right now is increasing the output of all its voting
members. A large majority of the work done in the SGA is accomplished by less than one-third of the
senators. Recently, the SGA passed a resolution requiring more participation from senators in SGA-

1. What prior experiences qualify you in particular for this leadership position?
2. The VP is an important link between the Senate and the President, how do
you plan to best bridge this gap?

3. What do you think is the most pressing issue facing the SGA now? What
is your stance and how will you deal with it?

4. In what direction do you see the SGA moving and how would you change or
help this progression?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what exactly makes you the best candidate
for the job?

1. I served as a co-coordinator of Habitat for Humanity and am currently a
Service Ambassador and the publicity chair of Reach Out. I am also a hall
counselor where I deal with communication issues, problem solving and organi-
zation on a daily basis.

4. Sometimes it seems that there is only a core group of SGA members
working without much interaction with the rest of the campus. I would love to see
more students become involved, and I have the energy needed to get people just
as excited about the Davidson and SGA as I am!

2. From serving many organzations, I understand how different groups work.

This will help me unite the students and the SGA, especially on the Intercoucil 5. The Vice President’s primary roles, as I see them, are to listen to people’s
where, as chair, the Vice President’s job is to bring students together on various . concerns, to aid the President in his/her duties, to bring people together on
committees. I love interacting with others, listen and communicate well and have AINSLEY HINES committees and to keep everyone enthusiastic about the SGA. The Vice President
a ton of energy. \_ J should be someone who loves Davidson. I feel that I exemplify all the qualities

- ~ — needed to fill this position. From my range of interests and activities, I will bring
3. Davidson’s lack of awareness about different groups and interests on campus a fresh perspective to the SGA. I have a surplus of energy that I am excited to use

seems to be the latest issue challenging the SGA. I would love to see this issue tackled by making each __as the Vice President. Most of all, I adore Davidson College!
week a different awareness week. Organizations could sponsor a week, heightening their exposure and
increasing others’ knowledge.

YN BOARD PRESIDENT

oe

1. How do you propose to keep the student body motivated in and involved in
the agenda of the Union Board? .

2. What experiences and interests qualify you for this post?

3. What new and exciting things would you propose for your term?

1. [believe that the Union must continue to bea resource that is readily available
to everyone in the Davidson community. This means several things. Having
worked on the Union Board, I feel reasonably qualified to say that involvement
and enthusiasm for Union events is a direct function of three basic elements: an
interesting and exciting variety of activities, the hard work and visibility of a
dedicated Union Board, and effective advertizing and promotional work. These
are all things that the current group does very well, but as with any organization,
the Union Board has tremendous potential for growth and improvement.

1 \

4. What is the biggest weakness and how do dite feel you can use this to best
serve the student body?

5. Briefly explain in your own words what geaictly makes you the best candidate
for the job?

ve

3. I think that any group of Union officers must carefully consider the desires
of the students that the Union represents. After all, the Union Board does have
control of considerable funds drawn from the student body. To this end, I will
endeavor to address the concerns of the student body as recently articulated by
such media as the Davidsonian, the Union survey that was conducted last fall, and
the general perception of Union events. For example, the Union survey showed a
strong demand for bigname bands, a:concern that is currently being addressed and
that the, Board should continue to pursue in the coming year. I hope to draw

2. Ihave spent the past year as a member at large of the Union Board. In this

together a diverse Union Board representing all elements of campus to help

WILL THOMPSON effectively serve the entire student body.

capacity, I have been privileged to work with many of Davidson’s administrative

and student leaders. One of my responsibilities as a member at large was to serve

as the liaison between the Union and the Student Government Association. In addition, I have worked
on occasion with Auxiliary services and the Dean of Students Office. Also, I spent this summer working
in the Union as an operations assistant, greatly enhancing my knowledge and understanding of Union

events and | programming. I strongly believe that these experiences have taught me what is required to
run a successful Union. ‘

4. My biggest weakness is one that is bound to beset any Union Board president.
This is a big job, and no one has the energy or the patience to do it alone. This will force reliance on my
fellow officers and on the committee chairs. Such reliance is crucial to the activities of a healthy board.

5. The job of Union Board President requires a great deal of behind the scenes work that relies on a
thorough familiarity with the workings and interactions of Union Board, both within itself and in its place
among other campus entities. I believe that my experiences with these various organizations make me
the best candidate for the job.

4. I believe the SGA has progressed very rapidly in its response to the students’.

Bmw,
