4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

igkeneaec

Greenway to extend from Main St. to I-77

By COLLEGE RELATIONS

Freshly cleared lots on Davidson’s Griffith
Street where houses once stood are the sign of

The College still owns three
Griffith Street lots with homes
that it rents to tenants.

Davidson College’s efforts to help residents of
that town gateway improve their living conditions.

The college recently razed three substandard
homes there, and it is making attempts to find
better living arrangements for residents.

Susie Lowery, aretiree who formerly worked
on the college’s Patterson Court fraternity row,
had lived in her home at 315 Griffith Street for 50
years, but she was forced to sell her house because
she couldn’t afford to maintain the house. She
tried to get arehabilitation grant from the town but
found none available, so she asked Davidson Col-
lege Physical Plant administrators if the college
was interested in buying her home. The college
bought her property and gave her a college lot on
nearby Mallard Court on which she built a new
two-bedroom house. Lowery said she was sorry to
have to leave the Griffith Street home she loved

BAT mobile visits campus

r

@ Cader Howard
of a .08 alcohol level.

Continued from page 2

The survey used the responses of 253 full time
students, of which 56% were women. As indi-
cated by the report, Davidson students believe
drinking is a problem
larger in scope than re-

ustrates the effects

of Davidson students who reported that
they had “been hurt or injured,” was
also nineteen percent. Eighteen per-
cent had “been taken advantage of sexu-
ally” and 6.9% “had taken advantage
of another sexually” due to alcohol-
related incidents. The number who
had “tried unsuccessfully to stop us-
ing” alcohol was 6.5%. Thirteen per-
cent thought they “might have a drink-
ing or other drug problem.” Because
of problems with alcohol, 21% “per-
formed poorly on a test or important
project,” 30% had “missed a class,”
and 46% “had a memory loss” while
under the influence or shortly there
after. These were all percentages
greater than those reported by other
institutions in Davidson’s “reference
group.”

Despite the assertion that re-
ported alcohol-related incidents have
decreased since last year, no student
could be found to support the claim
that drinking is down from last year.
When asked whether she thought that
the freshmen this year drink more than
the junior class did in their freshman
year, Fourth Cannon Hall Counselor,
Amy Council ’00 said, “I think that the
freshman this year drink more than
students did my freshman year. There
are, however, fewer parties during the
week.” Anna Fenton-Hathaway ‘99 added, “Be-
cause it is harder to obtain beer on the Court, there
is more drinking in the dorms.” Although some
freshman tended to agree with the statement that
binge drinking is per-
haps more prevalent at

Anna Judy

searchers found it to be.
Forexample, while .4%
of students surveyed
believed that there were
no students on campus
who had never had a
drink, 14% of those sur-

The study reported that nineteen
percent of Davidson students
reported having driven a car while
under the influence of alcohol.

Davidson, Mackenzie
Hilton ’02 said that “the
social life at Davidson
lends itself to drinking
because it is dominated
by the fraternities and
eating houses, but many

veyed said that they had

“never” touched alcohol. The latter number is
significantly greater than the national average for
the percentage of students on campus who had
never drank alcohol.

The survey results, however, were not all so
complimentary, a point Ringle acknowledged in
talking about the drinking-related problems of
which the college was aware. Although the col-
lege knows of fewer incidents this year than in
previous years, the survey revealed other uncom-
plimentary figures. The study reported that 19%
of Davidson students reported having driven a car
while under the influence of alcohol. The number

students, including
freshman, drink respon-
sibly.” Hilton continued by saying, “The close-
knit community of Davidson emphasizes any
minute drinking problems.” Lindsey Cattreal ’02
tended to agree with Council and Hathaway when
she said, “People are drinking to get drunk.”
Cattreal also said, “Many freshman drink enough
to be drunk all night, before going down to the
Court, because drinks are more difficult to get at
the Court.”
Regardless of the debate about a decrease or
increase in alcohol use at Davidson, only a fraction
of the student body are above the legal drinking

but happy to be in a sturdy, new dwelling. “I feel

alright about it, except that I couldn’t get anyone

to move my flowers and shrubbery!” she said.
The demolition of that home has also. allowed

the Town of Davidson to complete the Griffith

Street sidewalk all. the

way from Main Street to

TUESDAY, mason 23, 1999

in Vail Commons part-time during the morning.
The College is now building a duplex apart-
ment on Westside Terrace for Graham and another
college renter and will raise their Griffith Street
houses when that duplex is finished later this
spring. Graham said he has

lived in the house for al-

1-77.

Another home de-
molished, which had sat
on the corner of Watson
Street, was vacant. The
college offered to donate
the structure to at least
two local, non-profit
groups, but none found it
suitable for their needs.

The third home, at
331 Griffith, had fallen
into disrepair, and the
college purchased it in
1992 at the owner’s re-

The

from I-77.

college’s
acquisition on Griffith Street
began with a group of alumni
who incorporated as Griffith
Street Properties Inc. who
purchased lots in 1984. Their
intention was to create a
greenway entrance to town
along the main thoroughfare

most 15 years and consid-
ers the street quiet and safe.
He’s a little wary that the
youngsters in his new
neighborhood might re-
quire some adjustment but
Said he’s appreciative of a
new dwelling and satis-
fied with the arrangement.

Lena Connor, who
has lived at 336 Griffith
Street since 1971, hadbeen
hoping for some time to
move into a nicer house
for her retirement years.

property

quest.

The college’s prop-
erty acquisition on Griffith Street began with a
group of alumni who incorporated as Griffith
Street Properties Inc. who purchased lots in 1984.
Their intention was to create a greenway entrance
to town along the main thoroughfare from I-77.
The corporation ceased operation in 1994 and
donatéd its properties to the college. Since that
time, the college has not actively sought to buy
more lots but has responded to residents like
Lowery who wished to sell. Bob Collins, director
of the Physical Plant, said Davidson now owns 18
of the 25 lots fronting Griffith Street between
Watson Street and Davidson Pond.

The College still owns three Griffith Street
lots with homes that it rents to tenants. One is the
337 Griffith Street home of William and Hazel
Graham. William Graham retired from the
College’s dining services last year but still works

* me proud, what they paid me for it,”

Connor recalled, “One day

I saw someone from the
College down here and told him I heard that
College was buying houses. He said that was right,
so I told him, ‘Come on in!”

Connor identified a house for sale on Lakeside
Terrace and got a price for her Griffith Street
house from the college that allowed her to buy it
and fix itup. She’s having that work done now and
hopes to move in by the end of February. “It made
Connor said.

Collins, the College’s Physical Plant direc-
tor, pointed out that the college is engaged in real
estate management throughout town to provide
housing opportunities for staff and faculty. He
included the actions on Griffith Street as a part of
that activity. However, the college has no current
plans for the property on Griffith Street other than
maintaining it as a scenic greenway entry to the
town and college.

PCC Minutes

SUBMITTED BY PHOEBE NoRTON
PCC Secretary

Union conference Room
February 14, 1999

I. Attendance
II. Announcements

*FLAG-Ann Culp came to tell us that Shane
Winde is coming tocampus-on April 1. The pro-
gram is called Coming Out on Fraternity Row, and
PCC will donate some money for dinner.

*PCC Games. We set up a standing commit-
tee to work out timing, location, and games to see
if we have an interest.

*Jim’s Announcements.

(A) TIPS Schedule Tuesday, Feb 23 MCF

304 15 WH/15 SAE and Wednesday,
Feb 24 | MCF 304 15 Rusk/15 KA

(B) President’s One-on-One meetings needs

to be set up.

(C) SEIFC/SEPC

SEIFC is February 18-21

SEPC is March 25-28

Jim needs to hear from the women if ,
they want to attend.

(D) Remember to lock up your kitchens at
night and on the weekends. Jim has keys
in the office for House and Kitchen
Managers.

(E) Reminders to turn in:Budgets from

Treasurers Risk Agreements (green),
and Anti-Hazing Forms (yellow), House
maintenance system from House/
Kitchen Managers
Ill. Finances- Mauricio Sauma
Bills will be in mailboxes on Wed., Feb. 17.
Dues are due on Wed, Feb. 24 payable to Patterson
Court Council. Meeting for treasurers will
be in two weeks with the Controller's office.
IV. Service- Desirae Haylock
Relay for Life will be held April 16-17.
Every house must raise at least one team of ten
people. Team lists are due Friday. Service chairs
must call Desirae Haylock or Christine Larned for
Captain packets.
V. Judicial Board- Scott Buchanan
No trials for this week. Last Wednesday,
trials were held for SAE and Turner.
VI. Committees. Each committee met to go over
its duties.

———
SAAS eddSed NNeEEOeeN

aseeiiilk ebibgis saute:
EGG DONOR
for clinic in VA/NC

ion: Caucasian woman,

21-30, nonsmoker, c noe a or higher,
solid GAT scores, at least pal SS owen ye

conaiaats will be oa i Bae
|bsekerotnd, “education Bae motivation “for
02142, All serious replies answered."

Community Service Office creates new scholarship

FROM THE CoMMUNITY SERVICE OFFICE

Working on behalf of Bruce Parker, who is a _

philanthropist living in Charlotte, NC, the Com-
munity Service Office is coordinating the applica-
tion for and allocation of funds for his service
scholarships. This fund provides Davidson stu-
dents with the opportunity to design service projects
which combine academic and personal interests.
The strongest candidates are those who design a
project which synthesizes their various interests

and passions into one meaningful, challenging
service experience. Due to the timing of the
application process, projects should take place
during the summer months of 1999, unless other-
wise approved prior to the application deadline.
The office encourages all interested appli-
cants to apply and to be creative and ambitious in
their project proposals. All recipients of funding
must comply with several requirements. First of
all, they must save and submit receipts for project
expenses. Students are also required to write a

one-page reflection essay upon completion of the
project. Finally, recipients are encouraged to
share their experience with the rest of the campus
when they return.

All students interested in this opportunity are
encouraged to contact Bill Abrams, the Commu-
nity Service Coordinator (x2460), before com-
pleting their proposal. Proposals will be reviewed
regardless of prior involvement in service. All
applicants are encouraged to discuss their ideas
with the service coordinator, especially if they are

unsure of their options for summer projects. If
necessary, applicants may be contacted for a per-
sonal interview. The Parker Fund proposal should
include reasons for applying, well-developed sum-
mer service internship or project, and a tentative
budget for summer expenses, including other
sources of funding.

Proposals are due in Linda Gurley’s Office,
Union basement located in Room 04, onMarch 19,
1999 by 5:00 p.m.
