THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Wildcats drop contests to UNC-G, St. Mary’s

By Anpy LANOoHA
Staff Writer

Beginning the week as the number one team
in the South and the #5 team in the nation, by
week’s end the Davidson men’s soccer team had
run head-on into the truth of the saying, “soccer is
a fickle game.”

On the tail of two stunning victories,
Davidson dropped back to back games to
unranked opponents and found them-
selves in the recently unexpected posi-
tion of being a 500 team.

Davidson suffered their first defeat
this season at the hands of conference
rival and preseason #13 UNC-Greens-
boro in-Greensboro last Tuesday night.
Davidson and UNC-G battled back and forth
throughout most of the first half. However,
in the 40th minute, UNC-G delivered a
fatal blow — scoring two goals in 30
seconds.

UNC-G notched their first at
39:54, taking advantage of Davidson’s first major
defensive error. Colliding with a pair of other
players, Davidson keeper Soren Johnson was un-

Ranking the ranking:

By Micnaet J. Kruse
Editor Emeritus

It took all of 30 seconds here Tuesday night
for Davidson's No. 5 national soccer ranking to
vanish.

Preseason No. 13 UNC Greensboro went up
1-0 in the 39th minute and added another on a
penalty kick shortly thereafter. Two more goals in
the second half made for a 4-0 final.

“We were about a quarter-step behind the
eight-ball most of the night,” coach Charlie Slagle
said. “But we still had a great week.”

To say the least.

In one heady seven-day span, the Wildcats
went from nobodies to somebodies — and, de-
pending on what the unpredictable pollsters think
of the Spartan loss, perhaps back again.

But forget the four-goal setback.

Faced With the daunting task of opening the
season against the region’s top three teams.— in
that order and on the road — Davidson emerged
with a 2-1 mark after upsetting fourth-ranked
Clemson Sept. | and No. 10 South Carolina Sept.
4.

This is a team that went just 5-16 a year ago
and hasn’t had a winning record since earning a
league championship in 1995. This is a team that
began the fall ranked No. 5 in the Southern Confer-
ence.

“We had problems last year with guys not
being on the same page,” said Slagle, who also lost
18 of his top 20 players for at least one game due
to injury in 1998. “But positive things have
happened so far this season. They’re doing the
things we’re asking them to do, and doing them
hard.”

Yet the local and state media didn’t seem to
notice.

Charlotte Observer sports staffer Jim Utter
wrote a story on soccer in last Tuesday’s paper —
on UNCC’s home opener. He didn’t mention
fifth-ranked Davidson until the third paragraph.
And that was only because the 49ers’ opponent
was the same USC squad the Wildcats knocked
off.

The News and Observer (Raleigh, NC) led its

able to punch away a dangerous UNC-G cross and
instead found himself on the ground and out of the
play. UNC-G forward Alejandro Moreno took
advantage of the opportunity and finished the ball
into an open net.

At 40:24, almost
immediately after the en-
suing kickoff, UNC-
Gwas awardedapen-

alty kick that resulted
in the Spartans’ sec-
ond goal.
“That second goal
really knocked us
down,” Hart Roper
commented. “We
hadn't given up a
goal all season.
So, two in less
than a minute re-
ally hurt.”
“Fwo-
nil into the half was a wake up call for us,” the
senior captain continued. “We felt like we could
still do it, but unfortunately we were unable to step

soccer coverage with the UNC women’s No. |
ranking. Yeah, well, the grass is green and the sky
is blue. The Tar Heels are almost always No. 1.

Davidson popped up matter-of-factly ina list
of Carolinas men’s teams in the Top 25.

This should not have been oh-by-the-way news.

Even if it was only for a week, Davidson
rubbed shoulders with college soccer's elite —
UCLA, Saint Louis, Indiana, Penn State, then the
Wildcats, looking like a curious misprint in the
nation’s top five.

The soccer team gave Davidson its highest
national ranking since Lefty Driesell’s hoopsters
finished 1968-69 third in the United Press Interna-
tional poll and fifth in the Associated Press.

That 27-3 squad, generally considered the
finest athletic team in school history, gotas high as
No. 2 on Dec. 31. The 1964-65 team, led by All-
Americans Fred Hetzel and Dick Snyder, was
dubbed the country’s preseason No. | by Sports
Illustrated — but not by an accredited polling
agency. That group ended the year sixth in the AP.

In women’s tennis, the Wildcats won a na-
tional title in 1984. But that came at the Division
III level, and women’s sports at that time were

jumbled compared to the Title IX atmosphere of

today.

As good as the basketball program was in the
1960s, Slagle’s 1992 edition of men’s soccer is
Davidson’s only team ever to have reached a
Division I Final Four — and those Wildcats did it
right here at Richardson Field.

All-American striker Rob Ukrop and
wunderkind goalie Alex Deegan — both of whom,
incidentally, were in Greensboro Tuesday night
— made that Fall magical.

The 1992 Wildcats scored 90 goals in 27
games, posted a program-best 17-5-5 record, and
won three NCAA tournament games in penalty
kicks, sudden death penalty kicks, and triple over-
time, respectively.

Ukrop and Company got as high as ninth
following a win at No. 2 UCLA and finished No.
16 after falling to San Diego 3-2 in the national
semifinals. But they never ranked fifth.

“We all kind of laughed when it came out,”
senior captain Hart Roper said of the lofty perch,
which included the program’ s first ever top billing

WEEKEND UPDATE

Witha loss last night to Drury College (Mo.), Davidson was unable to pull
out of a week-long skid that saw them drop three in a row, after knocking off
Clemson and USC to garner a fifth-in-the-nation rating.

The ’Cats jumped out to a 2-0 half-time lead, with goals by Chris Norbert
and Paul Watson. But Drury stunned the ’Cats, forcing a double-overtime, and
then stealing the game on a goal in the game’s 105th minute.

Andrew Holbrook and David Buehler were named to the All-Tournament
of the Falcon Invitational Tournament. The Air Force Academy knocked off
St. Mary’s 6-0 yesterday to capture the tournament title.

it up in the second half.”

Having to play with only 10 men throughout
most of the second half didn’t help Davidson’s
comeback chances. Stopper Jeremy Kilburn was
ejected early in the second half after receiving his
second yellow card. Flying in fora header, Kilburn
earned his ejection (and four stitches in his lip) by
leveling a Spartan mid-feilder near the half way
line. As the half wore on, Davidson continued to
struggle, and the Spartans added two more goals
before the whistle blew and the upset was final.
Despite Kilburn’s hard tackling, Davidson’s en-
tire performance was uninspiring. Explaining
their lackluster play, Roper confessed, “We were
just tentative, a step slow, and less aggressive than
we had been. I think that it was a draining week
physically and emotionally playing three big games
in a row on the road.”

Though the impressive population of
Davidson students that trekked to Greensboro last
Tuesday left a bit disappointed, the “Cats still
returned ‘home in an overall enviable position.
Winning two of their past three games (all on the
road), the "Cats looked forward to two very win-

nable games in the Falcon Invitational Tourna-
ment, held at the U.S. Air Force Academy, in
Colorado Springs.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats were unable to
bounce back from the Greensboro loss. Davidson’s
season record dropped to .500 on Friday, as they
lost to St. Mary’s of California in a 1-0 heart-
breaker.

Though they dominated the statistics and
out-shot the Gaels ]2-8, Davidson was unable to
take advantage of their opportunities and lost to
their weakest opponent yet.

Despite protests that he was offsides, St.
Mary’s Jon Gordon scored the-game winner in the
73rd minute.

“T felt like we had the advantage and should
have won,” commented senior forward Andrew
Holbrook. “All we needed was one goal and the
game was won. We were just unable to finish.”

Davidson finished their road trip yesterday
against Drury College of Missouri. A winnable
game, this contest provided the ‘Cats with an
important opportunity to get back on track before
their showdown with Southern rival Wake Forest
University on September 15th. .

What does it mean?

in the soccer-stacked
South.

“All that stuff has
to do with who you
play, and we beat the
toughest two teams in
our region. But two
wins doesn’t make a
season, and one loss
doesn’t make a sea-
son, either.”

Truth be told,
Davidson has about as
much business beat-
ing Clemson and
South Carolina as it
does being ranked No.
5 in the nation. That
is, none. ; ;

The full allot-
ment of scholarships
in DI men’s soccer is
9.9. The Wildcats
have. 1.2.

“It’s atough bur-
den for a group of kids
witha minimum num-
ber of scholarships,”
Slagle explained. “We

have to work very, very hard to be as good as we
can be. There’s such a fine line at Davidson.”
“But,” Roper added, “we are who we are.”
Dane Erickson is Vice President of the SGA.
Randy Culbertson is the founding member of
student band Cast Iron Filter. Andrew Holbrook is
a Bonner and Stuart Scholar. Dan Ford is a Harkey
and Thatcher Scholar. Bryan Garrett is an FCA
leader. Roper is co-chairman of the Athletic
Advisory Committee. Chris Murray and
Culbertson both received Dean Rusk grants last

Student Counseling
Center

welcomes first-year students and
upper-class students.

We're here to help.

DAVIDSON

Anna Judy
The ’Cats hurdled two early

season challenges to become the
highest-ranked Davidson team in
thirty years.

year to study abroad. Eight Wildcats are academic
all-conference. None of them are here primarily to
help the Wildcats gain a national soccer ranking,
And that’s precisely what makes this story so darn
good.

Call x2451 for an
appointment.
