‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

ake: = suprise appearance on the 6th. Watch out for diamonds, seashells and premature har loss,
p » (October 23- November 21)

ay low Beare: Anangry Virgo has it in for: you. Concentrate on getting rid of the rash and keéping
n touch with old sea You'll be glad you did.

pittarius (Nevembes 22- December 20)

Sagittarius finds new luck in love. Be sure and purchase zodiac themed clothing and beachwear
because it is all the rage in Europe. Remember to wear sunscreen and stay away from phyo
Hough, pastries and soft drinks on the 20th.

"apricorn (December 21-January 19)
ilted in love, Capricorn will come out on top this week. Start anew by cleaning your room and taking

nventory of unwanted clothing/relics of the past. mee low and om your cool on the 26th. You'll be
plad did.

bases Ganuary 20- February 17)

: quarians find themselves in aqueous environments. Brom tidk ths canoe ditt ine to an eae allan
prowess in outdoor adventure is far from aegis Retemiber th ¢ave to. fiard Sipe and to give
bthers the benefit of the doubt.

= (February 180 March 20)
Spunky Pisces is up and about and rearing to go. Major themes this week include writing,

correspondence and decision making. Congratulations Pisces, your independent nature keeps you
aughing and on top of life but tendencies to be a doormat persist. Rectify them as soon as possible.

-& LIVING

AlendaLux

we ee en a

TUESDAY, APRIL 13, 1999 ies

“Cast Iron Filter” packs the 900
Room for premiere album release

By Setu Davis

Arts & Living Editor

“Cast Iron Filter” is the band in ties. The
three person band came to their CD release concert
last week clad in style, a la Robert Palmer (not to
suggest that “Cast Iron Filter” sounds at all like the
80s rocker). Their sound is a combination of

. Dustin Edge’s unique vocals and guitar (inter-

spersed with harmonica), Randy Culbertson’s vo-
cals and guitar, and Mike Orlando’s banjo, guitar,
and mandolin.

Fans who arrived late to the show were met
with a packed 900 Room and a polite insistence
that they had to wait to get in. Lines formed
outside the 900 Room, which was filled to the limit
of fire code regulations. From outside, though, the
band could be heard if not seen, and a number of
fans spent the night sitting outside simply listen-
ing.

They were treated to an entertaining perfor-
mance, hampered only at the end of the show by
the failure of some of the speakers. Despite this
minor setback, the band finished the show strongly.
Their performance highlighted the band’s greatest
talents, which are their stage presence and perfor-
mance capabilites. From Edge and Culbertson’s
casual joking to Orlando’s mastery of the mando-
lin, “Cast Iron Filter” entertains beyond simply
playing music. In fact, on stage they simply shine.
They played a number of songs, some from Edge’s
Matala Summer and other from the band’s first
album. They also played some songs not on either
album. There were songs inspired, as Edge said,
by “watching too many Jerry Springer's. ” The
band also played the cover of Bon Jovi’s “Living
on a Prayer” towards the end of the show.

Their first album, Paradise in Palestine , is
on Catapult Records. This album, recorded in
March, employs as a guest musician Gary Greene,
who adds his percussionist abilities. From the first
song on their CD, Paradise in Palestine, the band
presents themes and sounds that are both enter-
taining and very human. The “Temptress of Wash-
ington” speaks about a woman who travels down
destructive paths while searching for happiness.
This combination of sounds that is “Cast Iron

Filter’ is marked, on one hand, by the band’s
lyrics. “Hello, Rebekah” tells a story of heartache
that transcends the words and images that are
Edge’s own. The band’s songs are human stories
that cover a range of themes, addressing the pain
and happiness that people feel. The longing of
“Take Me Home” and the rapid, celebratory rhythm
of “Tam Lyn” are examples of the varied themes
that the band’s music covers.

The band’s sound is also marked by the
frequent combination of Culbertson and Edge’s
guitars and Orlando’s mandolin. On some of the
tracks Orlando’s playing moves through the air
with a force. This force is carried in “Tam Lynn”,
a instrumental arranged by Orlando. Other songs
on the album carry the same power, like--
Culbertson’s “Take Me Home.”

“Cast Iron Filter” certainly looks ready to
catapult into the future. They have a versatile
sound, entertaining performance ability, and a
simple realness that is lacking in much of modern
music.. It waits to be seen where all that will carry
this talented group from little old Davidson Col-
lege.

© "Castiton Filter

“CRoss Words”
‘Ee ‘sly fwlo Wil fe lal>|'s Ms fr fa le
WA SHED GEES Sete
pa Tie lA la S\clels|tTHMAlriels
> rilulrieleisiele|r Me elv ie iy ir
© © Wie l|sitinla “slolrle
E|AlG le (e MAIR (Rio lwis
> ‘= G@|o|>d DIEld |Mlicir S|? ji it
A) ~~ E|R|\ cls 6| sia TIE) Als le
wv = frlelale ll slelelale eM cle |m
\ Si\e@elecivirlé SiE|\cliElS
© ‘clolwl|'s “LIAIT elsir
Len So AlN iu | (Efe lelels [TIA la le le
YD Bon BAB woos
C) DiE|M|/ AILIAIMI\O E\2cianis
Ale léelxXfc|s|PlalwHs\alsle

except on weekends

Ti's WB0.. Home | Wher? T's Smpsons | 4 ee. T ag ho work V+ Buy ‘golly Tu show you
for Simpsons. Cron} ond el YOu WK priorikies! |
Hanpt? Look, TW lve episode We was whle
Im s : wcariousl you ae
| \ Neegints Macous m EN an wie.

Moalf- Wale

Nate I at?
