Che Davids

AL BoN. Di Aa La TR

|DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“Interstate-77's Foremost

ORTA

LIBERTAS

College Weekly”
-?
EstaBLisHeD 1914

Debate over the Turin Shroud.

NEws 3

Superdean of students!

OPINIONS 5

A&L9

Learn from trees!

Liz Nugent first ’Cat to
compete in NCAA zones!

SPORTS 11

Sanctions made against SAE

By AsHLey E. Kin
News Editor

As a result of alleged violations of both the
Code of Responsibility and violations of the new
member guidelines for all Patterson Court houses,
a hearing was held during the second week of
March for the fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon (or
‘SAE) through the Dean of Students office. After
SAE pled guilty to all charges, sanctions were
brought against the house which involved the
suspension of all chapter activities on or off cam-
pus until fall of the year 2000 and also involved
requirements for returning to campus at that time.
Appealing to the Review Board on Friday, SAE
was denied, and currently the fraternity is appeal-
ing the administration’s decisions a second and
final time through President Vagt.

The incident which spurned the allegations
occurred on Saturday, January 23 when the David-
son police responded to a complaint about the
level of noise at a house off-campus where SAE
was hosting some pledging activities. According
to Thomas Shandley, Dean of Students, these
activities “did involve providing alcohol to mi-
nors and did involve the blindfolding of pledges.”

Former President of SAE, Thomas Ting 99,
confirmed Shandley’s statement about what had
actually transpired at the off-campus house. Ad-

. mitting that there was underage drinking and that
pledges were blindfolded, Ting offered the per-
spective of someone who was heavily involved in
the recent events. He began by saying that he
agreed that “underage drinking is a crime.” He
then continued by discussing the incident at the
house off-campus..‘‘As far as the pledge event
itself [was concerned], in no way was anyone
forced or pressured or even encouraged to drink,”
Ting said. “Beer was available to those who wanted
to drink. There were brothers and pledges who did
not drink at all.” Regarding the blindfolds, Ting
said, “The blindfolds were a part of what we call
a trust walk.” He explained that in this walk, the
pledges are blindfolded and taken to the IMAC
fields. The purpose of this, according to Ting, was
to “build trust and build brotherhood.”

‘such rumors as untrue. “The

’ the event with hazing, the po-

Since the incident, many rumors have spread
across campus about what SAE did to receive the
sanctions. Both Shandley and Ting wanted to let
the campus know that many of the rumors, were
false. Despite widespread ru-
mors about SAE upperclass-
men beating their pledges,
Shandley said that “there was
no physical harm done to any
pledges.” Shandley also af-
firmed that any other rumors
about the incident, such as the
rumor that pledges were na-
ked and duct taped to furni-
ture, were false.

Ting also condemned

rumors have gotten out of con-
trol and need to be dispelled,”
he said. “Not only does it re-
flect poorly on SAE, but on
the individuals themselves.
We have our personal reputa-
tions to uphold. The rumors
are unfair and false.”

Speaking of the sup-
posed beating of pledges, he
said the incident “didn’t in-
volve physical torment or
abuse in any way. The blind-
folds themselves were actu-
ally toilet paper. Even that
was taking into consideration
tomake sure the pledges aren’t
hurt.”

Although thé local au-
thorities did not charge the
members who participatedin awry at the
lice brought the incident” to
the attention of the College administration, and the
College then took action against the house. There
were a total of six charges brought against SAE,
three of which involved the Code of Responsibil-
ity and three of which involved violations of the
new member guidelines for the houses on Patterson

Fraternity

Court. SAE was charged with violations of sec-
tions three, four, and seven of the Code of Re-
sponsibility. Section three is concerned with so-
cial responsibility, section four with misconduct

@ Inspecting the premises, Takota ‘00 finds something

iqma Alpha Epsilon h

member guidelines. “The policies that the College
has in respect to the new member guidelines are
not something that every pledge or every new
member doesn’t know.” He continued by explain-

makes appeals

Anna Judy c/o College Communications

which affects the rights of persons, and section
seven with the College’s alcohol policy. SAE was
also charged with having negative reflections on
the College, using alcohol at pledging activities,
and hazing, all of which are prohibited in the new

ing that because they read and signed the new
member guidelines, new members cannot plead
ignorance to the rules which they are bound to

See SAE on next page

Take Back the Night highlights Women’s Month

By LaurA McCanDLisH
Staff Writer

In conjunction with Women’s. Month, the
annual sexual assault healing program, Take Back

the Night, was heldin Chambers Gallery on March
18 at 7:30 p.m. The event was coordinated by
Deya Murray *00, Bekki Ross °00, and Amber
Worrell °01, and it received significant support
from the Women’s Issues Committee, faculty
members, and the

Women’s Month bonfire in front of Chambers

ee en

@ As part of Women’s Month, Davidson students

burned objects of oppression in front of Chambers.
¢

Student Health
and Counseling
Center staff.

a LE eR
event began with
alive acoustic gui-
tar and flute trio,

playing the John Prine song, “Angel from Mont-
gomery” to set a tranquil mood before the speak-
ers began.’ ‘Co-Chair Worrell said, “the music
before was a new idea. It definitely added to the
atmosphere and made people more relaxed and
comfortable.”

Take Back the Night co-chair Murray opened
up the evening. She urged the audience to respect
the speakers because “‘it takes tremendous cour-
age and strength for them to speak.” Murray said,
“respect the speakers, yourself, and the personal
space of those sitting next to you, because you
don’t know how they might be affected by what

the speakers have to say.” She then read a brief
exert about courage before the first speaker began.

Three female students spoke about their ex-
periences with sexual assault at this year’s Take
Back the Night. The first speaker shared a poem
about the path to recovery from childhood sexual
abuse. The second speaker shared a reflection
entitled “Dreams” about her experience being
violated by a trusted adult when she was in the
sixth grade.

See Women’s Month on page 4

nnd Judy

BDTTORIALS i...-csecesvecceaes Seeeahants 5
ME DINS asks icois sale cdecctvesnososcnoess i)
ARTS & LIVING
SPORTS

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

