By MIKE ANDERSON
Staff Writer

A collective sigh of relief resonated in Belk
Arena on Sunday, as the building tension of a
winless season melted into oblivion.

Davidson upended America East power Bos-
ton University 67-51 on Sunday, claiming’ the
consolation game of the 1999 Davidson Roundball
Invitational Tournament. Stony Brook shocked
the field by capturing the tournament with a 70-66
victory over Marshall.

Jen O’Brien lifted the Wildcats out of their
early-season funk, lambasting the Terriers with
the game-best 25 points, as well as nine assists
and eight rebounds.

“Jen is such a leader on the court,” sopho-
more Bethany Schott marveled. “She motivates us
and pushes us to perform our very best every time
we set foot on the floor. She believes in each of us,
and it is her confidence and determination that
sparks both our offensive and defensive efforts.”

More impressively than O’ Brien’s totals was
her timing. The slick senior guard was as elusive
as a deft fugitive, constantly slipping through the
fingers of her pursuers.

Though the Wildcats never trailed in the
game’s final thirty minutes, Boston University
tied the contest on two different occasions (20-20
and then 40-40). Immediately after both knots,
O’Brien responded with a seven-point surge to
recapture the lead...and the momentum.

While O’Brien provided the offense, Kim
Taylor sparkled on the defensive end. The 6-3
junior came off the bench and anchored a stalwart
defensive effort while scrapping for a team-best

P Oo
N

eight rebounds.

“Defensive intensity, defensive effort. To-
night we played defense for forty minutes, that
was fantastic,” Head Coach John Filar commended.
“Kim Taylor played fantastic defense for us.”

Taylor recorded career highs in minutes (27),
steals (6), and rebounds (8). Her six steals were the
most for a Wildcat in over a year, and were an
almost unprecedented feat for a post player.

Carolina (Caro) Perez-Heydrich, the Wild-
cats’ lone freshman, was “baptized by fire” in the
first half. Perez-Heydrich jumped into a tense
game, but showed that she was more than ready,
displaying cunning athleticism, defensive dyna-
mism and poise on the hardwood.

“Caro came in and played just likes she does
in practice,” Kelly Copland said. “She took the
ball confidently to the basket, pulled down some
great boards, and dove for loose balls, her perfor-
mance epitomized our ‘breaking of the losing
streak,’ a truly collective team effort.”

“Tt was a complete team effort today,” Filar
agreed.

The team effort came none too soon, as the
Wildcats opened the season with their worst skid
since 1983-84.

The team shot a paltry 36% from the floor and
56% from the free throw line over the season’s
first six contests. Averaging barely 21 points per
first-half, Davidson was out-rebounded by a clip
of more than 10 per game. The average margin of
defeat over the season’s first six: 70-51.

“We can’t put together a whole game,” Filar
fumed after Stony Brook handed the Wildcats
their sixth straight loss. Last season, the Wildcats
didn’t lose their sixth game until Jan. 18 when they

mf.

D

S

A

x

had already cruised to 12 victories.

“Tonight we played decent defense, but
our rebounding was horrible and our free
throw shooting was awful,” Filar continued.
“At Denver, our shooting is decent, but our
defense is not there. Different facets of the
game disappear on different nights.”

Davidson opened at #20 Boston Col-
lege, then faced Wake Forest, Denver, Miami
(Ohio), and finally a vastly-improved UNCC
squad before meeting Stony Brook in the first
round of the weekend’s tournament.

Amidst the early-season rockiness were
some sparks of brilliance, however.

O’Brien scored a combined 40 points
against powerhouses Boston College and
Wake Forest.

Janna Magette scored 18 at Denver and
16 at Charlotte.

Jessica Heath shot a team-best 50% from
the floor and 64% from the free-throw line,
while Katy Kamp averaged over seven re-
bounds per game.

Perhaps most encouraging, sophomores
Copland and Schott have delivered big-time.

“Bethany had anice game (against Stony
Brook) and so did Kelly Copland,” Filar said.
“Those were the two bright spots.”

But on Sunday, it all came together.
And the Wildcats looked like a bunch pre-
pared to control their own destiny.

For weeks, the young Wildcats had the
look of a deer captured in the headlights. On
Sunday afternoon, the tables were turned and
it was Davidson behind the wheel of the
oncoming semi.

LLL LL Ta TE TE EL Tee a ee EOE |
Wildcats climb into “W’ column with victory over Boston

Anna Judy

@ Jessica Heath tosses a layup over
last weekend’s competiton.

Season ends in first-round NCAAs, but no cause for tears

By Mike ANDERSON AND JOEL STOLTENOW
Staff Writer / Sports Information

It took a thousand-mile venture into the back-
yard of the nation’s 10th-best team to do it, but the
Wildcat Express finally ran out of steam last
Friday night.

the. evening’s three games, thanks to a block by

@ This is what the Wildcats will remember most about the 1999

Southern Conference champion out of the Pacific
Regional, 15-3, 15-5, 15-3.

Though an overpowering Nebraska squad
refused to let Davidson creep into any of the three
games, the Wildcats showed some impressive
rallies over the course of the night.

Davidson won the first put-away in each of

Mike Anderson

season, the jubilation of a SoCon Tournament Championship and

Roberta Quis, and a block and a kill by Gina
Lawrence. Davidson pounced out to 3-1 lead in
each of the first two frames.

“We should recognize that we played with a
top-ten team for several rallies,” Head Coach Lisa
Marston said.

Mara Mordini led the Wildcats with 6 kills,
raising her season total to a team-best 454. Fresh-
man Kaitlyn Martin stood tough against the pow-
erful Cornhusker hitters, accumulating a team-
best 11 digs. |

But Nebraska held Davidson to a season-
worst -.107 hitting percentage.

“We had never seen blocks like that,” Marston
mused. “But I am proud of our girls because they
didn’t quit swinging away — that shows a lot of
character.”

Powered by a seamless 20-0 crusade in the
Southern Conference, Davidson’s cruised to a
bewildering 31-4 overall campaign in 1999, The
conquest earned the Wildcats the first-ever bid to
a NCAA Tournament for a Davidson women’s
program.

Davidson’s breakout season is already pay-
ing dividends: three ACC programs have sched-
uled matches at Belk Arena next season.

“I’m really proud of making it to the national
tournament,” said Lawrence. “That’s a huge step
for Davidson volleyball. A loss to a team like
Nebraska is nothing to be ashamed of—we played
tough, we weren’t intimidated, we fought as hard
as we could possibly fight. But it let us know that

there is another level of volleyball up there.”

Marston showed unwavering pride in her
squad’s effort: “I thought our girls played really
tough. We played great defense. For our first
appearance in the NCAAs, I was pleased to sée we
weren’t intimidated or nervous. We came out
fighting hard.”

Nebraska Head Coach Terry Pettit had high
words of praise for the”99 Wildcat squad. “They
are the cream of the Southern Conference. The
team we played tonight is not like Morgan State
[the team Nebraska played in last year’s opening
round],” said Pettit. “Sometimes when you’ re one
of the top seeds, you get to play a team that’s really
weak — not the case against Davidson tonight.”

Nebraska went on to defeat San Diego in
three games later Friday night, and will travel to
Santa Barbara to face the Gauchos in the Sweet 16.

Davidson will lose a great deal of talent,
experience, and leadership with the graduation of
Lawrence and Quis this May. But the future still
looks bright for the Wildcats, who return five
starters, including Southern Conference Player of
the Year Mara Mordini. :

“It gives the underclassmen something to
work for,” said Lawrence. “Going out with a
perfect conference record, that’s just a goal I’ve
had since freshman year. For me it’s the ultimate.
For the younger players coming back next year, a
taste of a national tournament is going to make
them that much hungrier for the trip next year.”

their first trip to to the NCAAs.

i

Jen O’Brien, who helped lead the Wildcats to
their first game of the season by scoring 25
points against Boston University in last
weekend’s Davidson Roundball Tournament.

THE BOTTOM LINE |

QUOTE OF THE WEEK

“Davidson Crew is stepping it up, and
for the first time is beginning to show
schools in the south that it’s going to
give them some competition worth

talking about.”

Aaron Patton

"DSS GAMES OF THE WEEK

day, December 12
W basketball @ Georgia Southern 3 p.m.
Saturday, December 18
M basketball vs. Washington & Jefferson | p.m.

Notes: The men’s basketball team travels to
Palo Alto, Calif. Dec. 29 & 30 to play in the
Standford Tournament . . . the women’s game
against Georgia Southern Dec. 12 is the team’s
first Southern Conference contest of the season
... the men’s team begins its Southern Confer-
ence schedule Jan. 8 on the road at UNC Greens-
boro.

