THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Euisapetu Situ
Student Health Advisor

No! It’s not happening again... He wouldn't...
Ahhh, he is — this is so embarrassing!

My father is an Ear, Nose, Throat, Head and
Neck Surgeon with strong feelings against to-
bacco because he’s spent many hours with smok-
ers, — cutting out a larynx, looking at throat and
mouth cancers, and watching people unable to
survive without an oxygen tank continue to smoke.
Every time we go to a restaurant where he spies a
teenager (or especially a group of teenagers) smok-
ing, he walks over to their table, and from the
expression on his face, I know he’s going to make
the speech. It goes a little something like this: “Hi,
I’m a physician, and I'd just like to tell you that
seees ” He continues with all the evils of tobacco,
smoking. The danger those kids are putting them-
selves in. This speech used to embarrass me more
than anything- I could feel those kids staring at my
father and then at me, and I knew what they were
thinking — whatever!! — the exact same thing
that every smoker on this campus thinks when
someone talks about smoking. Now though I
realize that Dad was doing the best thing that he
could do for those kids — he told them the truth
and he did it with a smile on his face and more

The GREAT American Smokeout

confidence than I would have telling people in no
uncertain terms that they were killing themselves.

Killing themselves... We’ve all heard the
anti-smoking rhetoric, but just for kicks, let’s
review. Smoking will kill you; maybe not in one
day or one year or ten years, but it will kill you. It
will destroy your body through cancer and other
diseases and will make you look pretty terrible in
the process — yellow teeth, bloodshot eyes, thin
hair — just the kind of person I'd like to be with,
especially since that person is trying to murder me
with their second-hand smoke.

The myths about smoking are really ridicu-
lous though. One of my friends once told me that
everyone has to try smoking at least once — why?
The idea that smoking should go hand-in-hand
with other substances we consider rites of passage
like alcohol is just foolish! Even more absurd is
the “I-only-smoke-when-I’m-drunk smoker.”
Okay, smoking gives you a buzz — so does eating

.apound of chocolate, but you’ re not gonna do that.

Are there other reasons to suck tar and smoke into
your lungs — let me qualify — any good reasons?
I can’t make anyone stop smoking, but let me give
you this assurance — smoking is basically the
same thing as knowingly sticking an HIV-infected
needle in your arm — they’ Il both kill you and you
knew that before you even acted.

Rigger’s book explains evolu-
tion of Taiwanese democracy

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS

Anew book by Shelley Rigger, Brown Asso-
ciate Professor of Political Science at Davidson.
College, shows how elections fueled Taiwan’s
50-year evolution from dictatorship to democ-
racy, and explains Taiwan’s complex and danger-
ous relationship with the People’s Republic of
China. “Politics in Taiwan: Voting for Democ-
racy” (Routledge, 1999) is the only study of
Taiwan’s political development targeted for gen-
eral readers. While focusing on Taiwan, it also
offers insights into the democratization process
that are applicable to many other countries.
Professor Rigger is recognized asa leading scholar
of Taiwan’s domestic politics in the United States.
She heads the American Political Science
Association’ s Conference Group on Taiwan Stud-
’ ies, has published numerous articles about Taiwan
in scholarly journals and books, and has made
many presentations in the U.S.’and in Taiwan,
including the State Department and the Foreign
Service Institute.
Her new book examines the role of elections in the
evolution of Taiwan’s government froma “pseudo
democracy” into a genuinely democratic system.
Rigger proposes that the process of elections,
though largely a sham at first, created a snowball
effect that ultimately gave birth to a legitimate
electoral system on the island.
The nationalist government established in Taiwan
under Chiang Kai-shek after its defeat by the
mainland communists in 1945 was little more than
a dictatorship, with a permanent legislature and
Chiang serving as permanent president. Still, it
offered some popular participation, in the form of
competitive elections for local offices. Over the
years, citizens developed a strong attachment to
elections as a means to make their wishes heard.
Members of the permanent legislature gradually
died off at the same time that the electorate was
becoming more savvy. The vacant seats in the
permanent legislature were filled via supplemen-
tary elections that became increasingly competi-
tive in the 1970s and 1980s. Chiang Kai-shek’s
son, Chiang Ching-kuo, became president follow-
ing his father’s death in 1975. The younger Chiang
allowed significant reforms in Taiwan’s political
system, including lifting a ban on opposition par-
ties that had been in place from 1947 to 1987. He
held the presidency until his own death in 1988,
when his hand-picked successor, Lee Teng-hui
took over. Under Lee, the reform process acceler-
ated, until Taiwan held its first direct presidential
election in 1996. With Lee’s reelection in an open
competition among four candidates, Taiwan’s
democracy was extended to all levels of govern-
ment.
“Chiang Ching-kuo and Lee Teng-hui’s flexibil-
ity and pragmatism were important in Taiwan's
transition to democracy, but-I would argue that,
fundamentally, Taiwan is democratic today be-
cause people with new ideas co-opted the institu-
‘tions that were already in place, launching:a de-
mocratization process the central government

couldn’t control,” Rigger said.

Because Taiwanese politics in rural areas still
involves cash payments from candidates to voters,
other Taiwan experts have argued that the country
does not deserve to be called democratic. Unlike
other authors, Rigger explores the phenomenon of
vote buying in detail, interviewing both vote buy-
ers and voters who accept bribes. While acknowl-
edging the cash exchange, she concludes the prac-
tice is an artifact of Taiwanese history. She ex-
plained, “People expect to be paid for their votes,
at least by ruling party candidates, but payment
ism’t a guarantee of a vote. It’s like an insurance
policy. If you give me something, I might vote for
you, but if you don’t, I won’t even consider voting
for you. Studies have found that payments are only
20% effective in securing votes.”

She concluded, “Taiwan has limitations. It’s not
perfect, but it’s democratic in the most fundamen-
tal sense. Ordinary people are free to assess their
interests and to vote for candidates whom they
believe will best represent those interests in gov-
ernment. Taiwan’s electoral campaigns and day-
to-day political life are extraordinarily vibrant,
and the popular view of politics is a fascinating
melange of pragmatism and idealism.”

Her book also examines Taiwan’s complicated
relationship with mainland China (People’s Re-
public of China, or PRC), which overshadows all
of its internal politics as well as U.S. policy in the
region.

President Lee shook up U.S. policymakers
and drew an angry response from the PRC last
summer when he publicly stated the two entities
should have a “special state to state relationship.”
Rigger explained that the angry PRC reaction was
prompted by Lee’s first-ever use of the word
“state” in discussing Taiwan-PRC relations,
Many people asked why President Lee would
make such a rash statement and risk the wrath of
his government’s biggest enemy fi the PRC fi and
its biggest friend fi the U.S.A. Rigger offers some
explanations.

First, Rigger argues that Lee was warning the U.S.
not to lean toward the PRC in its own position. “I
think he saw Washington and Beijing heading off
together in a direction he didn’t like, and decided
to sacrifice his short-term comfort to stop them
from moving any further,” said Rigger.
Furthermore, she said Lee was merely expressing
in another way a feeling shared by most Taiwan-
ese. “Taiwan is willing to negotiate its relationship
with the PRC, but only as an equal. Taiwanese
citizens contend that Sun Yat Sen created the
People’s Republic of China in 1912, and that the
communists on the mainland and democrats on
Taiwan are equal inheritors of that legacy.”

The communists on the mainland don’t see it
that way. They view the Taiwanese as a breakaway
faction, and fear that Taiwan intends to declare
independence. The PRC maintains pressure on
Taiwan through missle tests and military maneu-
vers near its shores to deter the fervor for indepen-

‘dence. The Taiwanese resent heavy-handed bully-

ing by the mainland, and the stalemate continues.

iy 12

- s

2

7s

By Trey Davis

United States interests

further complicate the situa- | Cle 2own
. . . Across 1. Jewel
tion. Treaties affirm 1. Greek letter 2. Famous boxer
America’s defense of the is- ‘i Ice coy, ft tnptence 2 Seave tooetber
land because Chinese con- | ° 14. Church official 5. Fiery crime
ery
: ae 15. Celestial hunter 6. Drenched
trol over Taiwan would im 16. Tree 7 Hockey player Bobby
peril American allies Japan 17. Whodunnit 8. Zip
. : 19 “I Like” 9. Singer Billy
and South Korea, and give 20. Pawn 10. Kitty food?
China strategic control over 21. Aorl 11, Caribbean nation
: hin: . 23. AMA members 12. Inquired
Pacific shipping lanes. Fur- 26. Relative 13 Net here
thermore, the U.S. can’t 29. Assistant 18. Roman 201
. : . . 30... Man (Esteves movie) 22. Pitch .
abandon Taiwan philosophi- | 39° Word with top or bottom 23. Sketches
cally because Taiwan has be- 35. Tennis ace 24. ABC gameshow host
, wai 38. Computer guy 25. Quarrels
come a textbook case in de- 39. Time 27 Cla
mocratization and capital- 42. Howdunnit 28. Something other than [
ism “They're the type of 45. Snake’s comment? 31. “___-Kosh, B’gosh”
“om 46. Long times 33. Jacob’s brother
country we’re supposed to 47. Bug 34. Elvis Presley
b itted - they’ 48. Baseballs, maybe 36. Stair
€ committed to; ey ve ; 50. Singer Hill et al 37. Denny’s alternative
done everything we’ ve asked 3 Rocker Billy 3°. Tennis ace Chris
eee 4. Big Bird’s costar Happen again
of them politically and eco- 57.“____ A Little Tenderness” 41. Fancy-schmancy
nomically,” said Rigger. 58. Domains 43. Edison’s park
F : 61. Basketball rim 44. Acid
The issue is at the heart 63. Same 48. Everyone
of all relations between the _ Messer * La igh ca
. w . . rench woman ngn Tiv:
mainland and the U.S. “This 71. Bounce ¥ 52 Airline
is the central issue separat- 72. Approach an altar 53. An acom, maybe?
3 . aid 73. Harrison Ford role 55. Internet company
ing Chinaand the U.S.,” said 74. Wide open 56. Blackbirds
Rigger. “The PRC leaders 75. Short chair 59. Flaky rock
aa ’ : : : 60. Get caught on
say we're interfering with 62. Kick away
: : , 65.___laja
their sovereignty, and they’re ‘a,
not going to give in on other 67. New prefix
issues such as human rights 68. Car company

as long as we’re standing be-

3

Building addition

tween them and what they
consider to be their sacred
territory.”

Rigger holds out little hope for near-term
reconciliation between the involved parties. “The
best Taiwan can hope for, and the best China can
hope for, is to continue to talk about short-term
issues, while waiting for a more favorable situa-
tion to evolve on both sides,” she said.

The best possible long-term solution, according to
Rigger, would be a compromise wherein both
governments agree to the concept of a unified
China that transcends the two political entities that
exist today. That might allow them to send unified
team to the Olympics and conduct limited joint
activities on the world stage, while maintaining
their political sovereignty.

President Lee’s term of office is up next year, and
Rigger said the March 18, 2000, presidential elec-
tions promise an exciting race between three can-
didates who have different views on the country’s
relationship with the mainland. Candidate Lien
Chan is Lee’s current vice-president. His election
would probably not change the country’s relation-
ship with the mainland much. The second candi-
date, Chen Shui-bian, represents the main opposi-
tion party, the Democratic Progressive Party. The
DPP advocates independence in theory, but be-

lieves that Taiwan is already independent, and .

thus does not need to take any further action to
promote-or secure its independence; Chen also
hopes to attract voters with liberal initiatives in

social welfare and human development. The third”
candidate, James Soong, who is leading in the
polls; broke away from the ruling party in frustra-
tion over its current direction. Rigger said, “If
Chen or Soong wins, Taiwanese politics will be
totally new. No one can predict what will happen.”
Professor Rigger has been studying Taiwan since
1983. Her senior thesis on the topic of government
policy toward Taiwan’s aboriginal peoples won
Princeton’s Woodrow Wilson Senior Thesis Prize
in 1984. Her Ph.D. dissertation at Harvard, ‘“Ma-
chine Politics in the New Taiwan: Institutional
Reform and Electoral Strategy in the Republic of
China on Taiwan,” was the result of a year’s field
research in Taiwan and included more than 100
interviews with journalists, politicians, local po-
litical organizers and activists. She currently holds
a grant from a major foundation to study Taiwan’ s
opposition party, the Democratic Progressive Party.
Professor Rigger conducts her research in Manda-
rin, and also speaks some

Taiwanese. She has taught at Davidson since 1993.
For more information, please contact Shelley Rig-
ger at 704/892-2505 or shrigger@davidson.edu.
For a sample of her ‘work, see her article on 50°
years of Taiwan history, “Taiwan: Finding Oppor-
tunity in Crisis,” in the September 1999 issue of
Current History.
