ee __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ News _

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 1999

Dr. Wendy Farley delivers the 1999 Otts Lectures
Anger, fear, and lust in Christianity and Buddhism

By Aaron Houck
Staff Writer

Last Wednesday and Thursday evenings, the

1999 J. M. P. Otts Lectures were given in the 900 °

Room by Dr. Wendy Farley, Associate Professor
of Religion at Emory University. The title of the
lecture series was “Between the Fangs of Afflic-
tion: Passion and Contemplation in Christian and
Buddhist Thought.” In the two nights she spoke,
Dr. Farley examined and explained similarities
between Christian and Buddhist thought on how
we can live fuller, more enriched lives.

The lecture on September 29 was entitled
“Enthralled: Anger, Fear, and Lust in Christianity
and Buddhism.” Dr. Farley suggested that pas-

sions such as anger, fear, and lust distort reality due
to the ego’s tendency to magnify itself. She dis-
cussed the goals of the Christian monk Dorotheus
of Gaza and the Buddhist monk Shantideva to
transcend these emotions and find compassion.
Both thinkers believed that through a strict self-
discipline, one could come to passionate emotions
and embody compassion. Anger and lust were
grouped together, loosely described as masculine
passions — those dealing with the pride of the ego.
Fear, however, was classified as a feminine passion
in that it exhibits the ego’s sense of inadequacy.
According to Dr. Farley, the goal of the con-
templative traditions of Christianity and Buddhism
is a perspective freed from ego distortion — that
while you most certainly love yourself, you also

demonstrate thoughtfulness for others.

The lecture of the second evening was “Con-
templation: The Liberation of Reason.” Dr. Farley
explained that present understanding of reason is
a narrow interpretation of ancient religious tradi-
tions. Reason today refers to using analytic and
deductive approaches to comprehend empirical

observations. However, while the application of

reason to science and technology is useful, logical

_ or technical reason distorts reality because it only

deals with directly observable aspects of the world.

In Christian and Buddhist traditions, reason
had broader connotations. This permitted the
application of reason to such questions as “What
is justice?” and “What is truth?” Dr. Farley
explained that in Christian and Buddhist thought

there is a belief that through application of thought
and dedication to a task, one can reach a higher
contemplative stage of reason-a stage which once
reached, liberates.

What does this mean for Davidson students?
Dr. Trent Foley of the Religion Department sug-
gests that, according to Dr. Farley’s lecture, clas-
sical Christian and Buddhist thought proposes that
students think of studying as more than simply
means to get a good grade. It becomes instead a
discipline through which something higher can be
experienced.

“That would put a whole new spin on study-
ing, making it, perhaps, a more spiritually signifi-
cant activity than one might initially suspect,”
Foley said.

Campus center construction to begin soon

Story continued from Front page

Ted Baker of Jacksonville, Fla., co-chaired the
Campus Center Fundraising Committee.

The Center will be named for the family of

Carl and Emily Knobloch, major sponsors of the
project. The parents of two Davidson graduates,
the Knoblochs have been strong supporters of the
college for many years, serving on several com-
mittees and helping to fund scholarships and the
college’s indoor tennis center. Mr. Knobloch.is
the retired chairman and CEO of Production

Operators Corp., and is currently chairman of

Automated Logic Corporation. The Knoblochs
reside in Jackson Hole, Wyo., and will be on hand

for the groundbreaking ceremony.

According to Dean Shandley, “Davidson by
its very nature — small, rural, residential — is an
ideal spot for building a strong sense of community.
Having a central gathering place for students, fac-
ulty, and .
staff to come together daily will take full advantage
of these opportunities.”

Davidson students will not be alone’in benefit-
ing from the new Center. The state-of-the-art per-
formance hall will host Artists Series, traveling
shows, and student performances, all open to the
general public. “The theater will be an opportunity
for the college as a whole and provide new visibility
for a variety of performances,” says Joe Gardner,

Groundbreaking

Story continued from Front page

at the groundbreaking.

The occasion kicks off the 18 estimated
months of construction that it will take to com-
plete the Knobloch Campus center. As of now,
the spring semester of 2001 is the projected finish
date. Dean Shandley assuaged some concerns
over the construction saying, “The noisiest stuff
will take place in the summer.” The firm under
contract is MacLachlan, Cornelius, and Filoni
out of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. This firm was

coming Thursday

chosen because they specialize in the construction
of unions and performing arts facilities in a small
college setting.

Above all, Dean Shandley expressed the
groundbreaking as an opportunity to thank the
Knobloch family for making the campus ¢enter a
reality through their generous donation. Because of
the overwhelmingly positive experiences of their
daughters Emmy and Eleanor at Davidson, Carl and
Emily Knobloch decided to help the college realize
its ambition of a new campus center.

Belize

Australia

Italy

Russia

Ireland

@D

pueysuy

Auewuay

S

i
2.

vy)

LO) SEQUIN

ON TY. Eis ty

INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
. 617/353-9888
E-Mail ¢ abroad@bu.edu
Visit our web page! ¢ http://www.bu.edu/abroad

An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.
Ecuador

China

Davidsen professor of theatre and speech.
The groundbreaking ceremony will feature
performances by the Davidson Jazz Ensemble and

a cappella groups, the Delilahs and the Generals,
as well as remarks from College President Robert
F. Vagt, Carl Knobloch, and others.

The Davidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors

‘Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II
WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Businéss Manager

LAURA McCANDLISH “_PETER CLARK MELISSA ANN
ANN GREGORY 4 deCASTRIQUE
Photographer... Advertising Manager
JAKE HARRINGTON PETER CLARK ARTS.& LIVING
Ad Designers Senior Editor
SPORTS Oost gmers SETH DAVIS
1 ee BEN COVINGTON HD S
Senior Fdiiars CADER HOWARD Photographers
MIKE ANDERSON JESSICA BOGO
BURGIN HARDIN
Circulation Managers ADAM SOTO
Photographer CINDY CLARK :
ANNA JUDY INA SPECHAR Head Copy Editors
Layout Editors WHITNEY BLAKE
BEN COVINGTON | Circulanon IRENE MIDDLETON
CADER HOWARD DEREK. KVERNO
IRENE MIDDLETON Web Editor
DAN WINGATE” STEPHEN GAMBOA

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor ,

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

fp a a TS TN WT RRS SSS

The Bavidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of

Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The

Babidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-

} mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.
Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily
reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Bavidgonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00
per year. Advertising rates are available upon request. —

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

can be used if file is saved in an RTF format.

—_—_——SSSSESEEEE EEE el
DEADLINES & AD RATES All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3
PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles received after this deadline will not
be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s) or dropped
off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507. *Only those ar-
ticles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supercede the Friday deadline.

