18 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

MONDAY, AUGUST 30, 1999

Coach Hundley optimistic on Lady ’Cats ’99 prospects

By Burcin Harbin
Staff Writer

The 1999 Lady Wildcats and head coach
Kevin Hundley know regaining the Southern
Conference’s women’s soccer crown is a lofty
goal. He also knows his team will be playing in
one of most competitive seasons ever in the South-
ern Conference.

Yet he seems happy?

“The players want the challenge and we ac-
cept it,” said Hundley, who will be joined on the
sidelines this season by assistant coaches Heidi
Slaymaker and Todd Herman.

Eager for the ’99 season is the stellar group of

nine seniors who hold dear the memories of their’

freshman season in 1996 when they were crowned
the Southern Conference champs.

Since then, they have been thirsting for an-
other jewel in their crown, but unfortunately a
1997 semifinal loss is the closest they have come
to a championship, and last year the team dropped
to 7-13.overall.

The ‘Cats enter 99 picked 4" in the Southern
Conference pre-season coach’ s poll, behind UNC-
G, Furman, and. Georgia Southern. And with a
dominant group of seniors (the largest class he’s
ever had), Hundley believes the ‘Cats have the
pieces in place to get back on top.

“The team showed a lot of heart and determi-
nation last year to Overcome so many injuries,”

said Hundley. “We have a Strong nucleus return-
ing this season, and with good health, I know that
we are among the best in the conference.”

The Team

Team captain Amy Balsinger, a senior
sweeper from Pittsburgh, PA, will return as one of
the anchors of a solid, experienced defensive force.
Senior Angie Boyer and junior Sarah Falconi
will join Balsinger, who has not missed a start
during her Davidson career, in the backfield.

It is the fourth spot that remains a big ques-
tion for Hundley and the ‘Cats. Senior Natalie
Stumpf, who has had two seasons cut short be-
cause of torn ACLs, has decided to sit out this
season, giving some underclassmen a chance to
step up and see some playing time in the backfield.
Sophomores Lucy Stroup and Laura Booher
played well this past spring and will be part of the
mix inthe back. Also, promising freshmen Lauren
Dennis and Meghan Ferriter may see some time
in the backfield.

Senior co-captain Ginny Dye, a three-time
all-conference performer and the tenth leading
scorer in school history, will lead the ‘Cats of-
fense. Dye is currently tenth all-time in the South-
ern Conference with 51 career points. Since her
freshman season, she has scored 22 goals, and she
led the team in scoring last season with seven goals
and three assists for 17 points.

Kelly Rennick, another senior co-captain

who started 18 games as a back last year, will be
called upon to be an offensive force this season as
Hundley plans to move Rennick to a forward
position.

Expected to join Rennick and Dye on the
offensive are sophomores Natalie Cox, who scored
three goals in 19 games as a freshman, and Carryn
Quibell, who saw action in 13 games last season.

Seniors Kate McKnight and Jennifer Scott

return to the midfield, where the Wildcats have the |

most depth returning. McKnight and Scott have
both been formidable forces for the last three
seasons. Sophomores Carolyn Stumpf and Penn
Graves will also be looking for playing time
midfield, as well as-freshman Amy Johnston.
Senior Chesley Garrett and junior Winnie
Corrigan return to their goalkeeping duties this
season. Garrett and Corrigan each started 10

games last season and remarkably had very similar

statistics. They each played around 900 minutes,
with Corrigan recording 71 saves and Garrett
notching 61 saves. Also, freshman Sarah Henry
joins the goalkeeping ranks this season, adding
depth to an already-experienced staff.

The Competition

This season promises some of the most in-
tensely competitive action ever seen in the South-
ern Conference. UNC Greensboro, undefeated in
league play for the last two years, is the league

favorite even though Furman tied UNC-G in the
SoCon’s preseason coaches poll with 5 first place
votes.

The Wildcats opened their season on the road
on Saturday against Conference USA Champion
UNC Charlotte. Playing in font of a record crowd
at Charlotte’s Transamerica Field, Davidson met
their match in the Lady 49ers, losing the season-
opener 3-0.

The remainder of the ‘Cats non-conference
schedule includes matches against three ACC teams
(N.C. State, Clemson and Duke) and two SEC
teams (Georgia‘and South Carolina).

Outside the region, Davidson faces Oregon,
Brown and Duquesne.

_ The Lady Wildcats being conference play
September 4 when they host Wofford in what
Hundley says will “testing” home opener. Fol-
lowing the Wofford contest, the ‘Cats will play
two more conference games before the end of
September.

“We've challenged this group with another
strong schedule,” Coach Hundley commented.
“This is a testing schedule that if we finish above
500, we will have had a good year.

“Our ultimate goals are to get to win the
Southern Conference Championship and to earn
the school’s first Division INCAA women’s tour-
nament bid. We plan to be ready to play at that
level.”

Despite goals by Erickson, Holbrook, ’Cats come up short |

Sports Information Department

california

Ni
off
4

We are glad to see everyone back after a great summer.
Come In and give us a visitl

By Curis BREITENBERG
Staff Writer

There is certainly alot of anticipation amongst
the players on the men’s soccer team this season.
Coming off a disappointing 1998 season in which
the team went 5-16—with only a mediocre mark
of 4-4 against conference competition—the squad
has a lot to prove this season.

Animportant part of this year’s team success,
will be the play of the solid group of returning
impact players from last season that are excited to
improve upon last year’s record.

Although the team dropped their first exhibi-
tion match on Friday night against Winthrop, there
were some bright moments during the game. Both
Dane Erickson and Andrew Holbrook knocked
home goals for the Wildcats, and the team played
a very tight match before falling at the end by a
goal 2-3.

Erickson and Holbrook will be key players
this fall and they will be counted on to make their
presence felt both on the attack and in the midfield.
Last season Holbrook led the team with seven
goals on his way to a 15 point season, and he will
be needed to produce as the team’s leading at-

tacker. Erickson on the other hand will be ex-
pected to help control pace and distribute the ball
in the midfield as well as score and attack when
necessary.

Other key elements to the team’s success this
season Will be goalkeeper play. Freshman Soren
Johnson earned the starting spot during preseason,
and he will be expected to shoulder the burden of
being the team’s primary keeper. .

Coach Slagle, who is entering his 20th sea-
son of coaching soccer at Davidson, is excited
about his young keeper. “He showed that he could
handle himself during preseason and he will be
playing behind a experienced defense,” which is
cemprised of returning players including
Lawrence Cann and David Bueller. Cann led the
defense last year and anchored the back end of the
field performing at All-Conference levels.

Bueller will contribute in many different fac-
ets.of the game. He has proved his worth both as
a commanding sweeper but also as an offensive
midfielder. Last season he led the team in overall
points with 16, putting in six goals and dishing out
four assists.

Captain Hart Roper will also be an ex-
tremely important part of the team this season

WELCOME bACK!

healthy smoothies
fresh squeezed juices

bakery items

ALL SMOOTHIES $2.50 ” 0 wrrarcrassr:

(Valld all week, Mon. AUGUST 30 thru Sun. SEPTEMBER 5.)
(Juet present your etudent ID BEFORE ordering.)

FROM DAVIDSON...
Exit 28, Cornellus - East
In Front of Bilo

895-7696

california juice co... it's a way of life!

OPEN EARLY, CLOSE LATE!
Mon-Thurs 7am-9pm
Friday 7am-lOpm
Saturday Sam-lOpm
Sunday Yam-9pm

leading play through the midfield. As a leader
both on and off the field, Roper has gained the
respect of his peers and coaches and will be instru-
mental, as the team pushes for a much improved
season.

Coach Slagle will certainly have his players
prepared for the season this year as he brings in
twenty years of coaching experience. He has been
named the Southern Conference coach of the year
six times and also won the Division I coach of the
year award after guiding the Wildcats to a 17 win
season and a semifinal finish in the Division I
tournament. Slagle certainly does have the achieve-
ments of a great coach, but he remains focused
with task at hand knowing full well that the whole
season lies in front of him.

The team’s outlook is certainly promising
this fall and should be for years to come. Inexpe-
rience could be an issue, because the team has
many players who have yet to compete at the
intercollegiate level. Slagle knows that his team
does need to play well in a few different areas to
turn a good season into a great one.,

“We have a few areas to focus on this year,”
says Slagle, “we need one of the guys to step up
and become a consistent scorer, we need to stop
the counterattack and we need to be solid with our
set plays.”

Slagle is confident that his team can put
together a fine season, “We're aiming for at least
atop three finish in the conference and we hope to
perform at the highest level we can.”

The men’s soccer squad certainly has there
work cut out for them, playing regularly against
some of the best team’s in the country, but if they
can put the pieces together, a wonderful season
could be the outcome.

@ Junior Dane

Sports Info. Dept.
Erickson will again be a big
contributor to the ‘Cats on the
field. Erickson also serves as
SGA vice president.
