THE DAVIDSONIAN ©

Ars Be eI Gis eta
CROSSWORD

The Davidson College The-
atre & Speech Department’s
production of Cabaret shines

BY SetH Davis
Arts & Living Editor

Opening night of Cabaret displayed an
energetic cast and a charged performance. The
final performance over a week later showed an

the Kit Kat Club. She is strong-willed and inde-
pendent. Some of her numbers are highlights of the
musical, and Susie performed these with vitality
and emotion. Though by virture of her German
major Susie might have been equipped to play a
German in the musical, she pulled off Sally’s

2

By Trey Davis

“For The Birds”

experienced cast who put on a polished, refined
show. With performances on October 28-31 and
November 3-7 the Davidson College Depart-
ment of Theatre and Speech provided ample
opportunity for all to see their wonderful produc-
tion of the two-time Broadway hit Cabaret. First
a hit in the late 60's, and then last year on
Broadway, Cabaret is set Berlin, Germany, three
years before Hitler’s appointment as Chancellor
of Germany. The musical dramatizes the ten-
sions besetting German society at the time. The
Kit Kat Club, in which much of the action occurs,
acts as a sort of foil to the reality of the drudgery

Bill Giduz, College Communications

and growing oppression in Germany around 1930. @ Hans (James Flieder) and
The dramatis personae of the Cabaret scene Sally Bowles (Susie Schuhart)
are unique and enigmatic figures. Take, for perform in the Kit Kat Club acereyee
example, the Master of Ceremonies character,
played by junior Matthew Moretz. Lacking a
name, carrying a seemingly shifting identity, this British accent wonderfully.
character seems at home in the ribald Kit Kat Good perfomances were set alongside the
Club, but at other times we see him poignantly questions and shocks that abounded in Cabaret.
staring from overhead atthe oldcoupleof Fraulein Sally’s love interest is Clifford Bradshaw, who
Schneider (freshman Anna Jensen) and Herr was played by junior Nate Leachman. : He is
Schultz (senior Chase Bringardner). Moretz concerned with the world around him, yet he still Across Down
pulled off the ambiguities of the character beau- revels in the nightlife at the Kit Kat Club. Like 1. Ona caffeine buzz 1. Existed
tifully, keeping the audience, at every turn, from most of the central characters in Cabaret, he has his 6. “Whoops!” 2. German "I"
pinning down a definition of his character. contradictions. Nate played Clifford with a sense 10. Golf club 3. Regret
One character delights in proclaiming her- of wide-eyed innocence set alongside a desire for 14. Integra maker 4. Messes up
self mysterious. Sally Bowles (senior Susie Worldly pleasures, skillfully holding each and re- 15. Roman fiddler 5. Florida beach
Schuhart), is the Englishwoman who works at _ taining the audience’s belief in the humanness of 16. Take a nap 6. Sam or Ben
Clifford’s character. 17. “All T Wanna Do” singer 7. Not there
‘The myriad of great musical numbers in Caba- 19. Double reed 8. Spanish gold
ret were performed by the Davidson cast with 20. Hard, like bread 9. In what way
vitality and style. In short, this cast did the material 21. Spot in a car 10. Buddha statue, for example
justice. They had the help not only of director 22. “Night Swimming” group 11. The Princess Bride
Anne Marie Costa, but also Scott McKenzie, the 25. Individual 12. Atmospheric layer
guest artist who worked as music director for 26. Peter Cetera group, formerly 13. Requires
ct Cabaret. The cast of the musical was also fortu- 28. 8-bit game system 18. Street
& nate to have the aid of the talents of two other guest 29. Seinfeld character 21. Refuse entry
& artists: Barbara Howse-Diemer, who worked as 31. Bone constituent 22. Refuse entry again
§ Choreographer, and Linda Lindsay, who worked 33. Catcher Yogi 23. Figure skater Sokolova
© as Costume Designer. 34. Current veep 24. “American President” actor
x Musically and dramatically, this production 35. Stuff in 26. Freight
Q of Cabaret was asuccess. Anyone sitting in on one 38. Feed the kitty 27. Oak or Elm
= of the shows would have heard the audience's 39. Jerk forward 30. Singer Cara
5 laughter and applause. 40. Newsweek competitor 31. The Count of _ Cristo
3 This year the Davidson College Department 41. Pour 32. Group of eight
5 of Theatre & Speech couldn’t have picked a better 42. Choir voice 34. Sea birds
* musical nor could they have prepared and per- 43. Kids’ bricks 36. Spanish loves
formed it more skillfully. 1999, will, I hope, prove 44. Give a hard time 37. Plateaus
to be a year in which the performing arts at David- 46. Godzilla’s rival 39. Alan or Cheryl
bi Matthew Moretz as the son meet the challenge raised by the cast of Caba- 47. __ Miserables 43. Spock’s adjective
Master of Ceremonies ret. 49. Commercials 45. Head part
= 50. Wilbur or Snowball ’ 46. Soccer player Hamm et al.
e e 51. Poet Eliot et al. 47. Spill the beans
Chuck Davis delights | oh sees
54. Late show host Kilborn 50. Stalks and consumes
: 56. Calendar abbreviation 53.“ quam videri”
£ 4 A ’ 57. Frasier’s brother 54. Family group
Davidson with his Afican- ca, Poe 55 Spit
63. “Fine.” 57. Head motion
Sg 64. Directed 58. 1950s president
American Dance Ensemble | & r= oat
66. Bears’ homes 60. World Wide Web
67. Grad school exams 61. Asner and Mister

By Ky Le Erickson
Staff Writer

sponse. The session served as an introduction to
both the group and the culture. The evening

explained to the audience the significance of the
Bantaba and the ceremonial specifics. Two mod-
ern dances followed this. Once which utilzed the
entire dance ensemble and the second which was
performed solely by the dancer Monique A. New-

specifics of both the drums and the dances were
concluded with volunteers from the audience join- _ learned and put into action. The evening began
ing the ensemble on stage for the final dance. The _ with a 45. minute warmup dance session and con-
most impressive \ Cluded with a series of
of the volunteers African line dances

“Agoe!” Hope you all were listening. If you
were you should have responded ““Amay.” At
least you would have had you gone to the Chuck

Davis African American Dance Ensemble. Davis was the fresh- : eae acrossthestageofLove ton. The latter dance was dedicated to all the
and his group strived to not only perform African man, Griffin The use of both modern and traditional auditorium. The strong women who have been possitive influences
Dances, both contemporary and traditional, but. Myers, who ex- dance S ty les and throu g h_ the  drummerswereableto _ inlife. This was followed by adrum segment. The

the group also created a Bantaba, the African _ celled in the frog watch and participate drummers then stayed on stage for the last num-

oppurtunities get to know the dancers

phrase for dancing ground. hop, a dance in the base, tone, slap ber. This dance was performed in the Balante
The group arrived at Davidson on Wednes-. ™anuever were allowed f ora fi rst hand look and an of the Jembey, the spe- "style. The Balante is a dance and music style of
day afternoon and their residency lasted until thedancerjumps engaging experience. cific type of African Senegal, in West Africa.

drum.

The group closed
their stay at Davidson
on Saturday night

when they put on their African Dance performance.
The evening began with a blessing of the Bantaba
by Davis. At the conlusion of the blessing Davis

in place and
strives to bring
~ his/her knees up
above his/her
chest.
Thursday night the group put on both a drum-
ming workshop and another dance workshop. The

For those who attended the weeks activities
the Chuck Davis African American Dance En-
‘semble provided a valuable cultural example. The
use of both modern and traditional dance styles
and through the oppurtunities get to know the
dancers allowed for a first hand look and an
engaging experience.

Saturday. The began their stay at Davidson on
Wednesday night with a dance workshop for
those who wanted to attend. Some Davidson
students were present and many came up from —
Charlotte to be able experience the Bantaba:
Davis did a wonderful job of explaining the
significance of every movement and every re-

