THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spring fever is in the air

By ANNE STANCIL
Student Health Advisor

As I sit here at my computer writing this
article, my mind floods with thoughts of all the
work which lies ahead. Who can believe that
exams are only a mere three weeks away, and there
are still many papers to be written and tests to take
before those blue books? Spring semester is al-
ways a tough one because it seems like as the
weather gets warmer, the work load gets heavier.
Spring fever is in the air, and you are not alone in
your suffering. How many times have I tried to
read or write and stared blankly out.the window
watching other people enjoying the weather? It
seems harder and harder to work as the sun gets
warmer and warmer. The point of this article,
however, is not to distress you but de-stress. Ev-
eryone has a lot of work, so there is not point to
playing everybody’s favorite game: comparing
homework. I want to offer some helpful hints and
reminders about healthy stress relief as exams
approach.

First of all, get outside! Studying outside is
not always an option since distractions inevitably
keep us from accomplishing anything, but take a
walk or rufiin the fresh air to clear your head. Any
form or exercise is good for stress relief. If physi-
cal activity isn’t you thing, get off campus for a
little while: go see a movie, go out to dinner, or just
wander around. Do anything to get away from
homework for a little. Try to attend some pro-

@ Davidson College’s World Percussion

grams on campus for study breaks, such as the
upcoming Symphony Orchestra concert or Union
Board activities.

Basically, I’m trying to emphasize stress
relief without substances. I know that relaxing
with alcohol is common on this campus, and it
does take your mind off of work for awhile, but the
after-effects can be harmful. For example, what
good are those twelve beers you drank to “inspire”
yourself to write that paper when the hangover you
have the next morning prevents you from writing
at all? While alcohol does help you to forget your
troubles, it is not a healthy way to cope with stress.
Drinking to forget problems is one of the tell-tale
signs of alcoholism.

Other healthy de-stressing activities include
meditation and breathing exercises. These help
you to relax and improve concentration. If you are
feeling a bit stressed as you read, try a simple
breathing exercise right now: slowly inhale for
five counts and exhale for five counts. Do you feel
a little more relaxed? Try it a few more times, and
you should feel more in control of your stress.

This time of year is very busy and stressful. A
little stress can actually be healthy—it keeps us
focused and on top of our activities. Sometimes,
however, things can get a little out of control and
we need to step back and take control ourselves.
The next time work piles up and stress gets out of
hand, take a walk or simply breathe slowly instead
of reaching for a beer. You might find that your
mood and grades improve.

John A. Dunwoody II

Ensemble in front of Cunningham

Look for a review of George
Clinton and the P-Funk AIll-
Stars in next week’s issue!

Tree

of the Week:

the Eastern Redcedar, stands strong
and steady outside Chambers

By BriAN CAMPBELL
The Tree Guy

This-week’s tree of the week is not the center
of attention on campus, which is suddenly filling
with colorful flowers. This week we honor the
Eastern Redcedar (Juniperus virginiana.) These
are the steady and strong couple that stand along-
side the columns of Chambers.

The redcedar is in fact not a true cedar but a
member of the juniper family, as the botanical
name implies. This tree is quite common in our
area, and anyone who ventures into the woods
behind campus will find multitudes growing wild.
Because of their conical shape and availability in
the southern states, eastern redcedars have long
been popular as Christmas trees. Today, this same
species is grown on plantations for the holiday
season.

The eastern redcedar has a fibrous root sys-
tem that is useful for erosion control. These trees
are often the first toobe planted on the sloping sites
of strip mines or clear-cuts. Cedarwood oil is
extracted from the tree that is used in compound-
ing various natural frangrances and perfumes.
Redcedar wood is reputed to have natural moth
repelling qualities, and it has been long used to
make chests, wardrobes, and closets.

The redcedar has scalelike foliage that grows
thick and fragrarit on its twisting branches. The
cones are small and bluish, and develop a waxy

bloom that makes them appear frosted. This fruit
is nutritious for wildlife, which help spread the
seeds in their dreppings. Many birds choose the
redcedar for nesting, and the foliage is an emer-
gency food source for many animals during win-
ter. Perhaps the most characteristic feature of the
redcedar is its reddish brown bark which exfoli-
ates or peels in strips, giving the tree a sinewy .
appearance.

Davidson is lucky to have several huge
redcedars. Behind Martin Science Building are
several examples, but the largest are in front of
Chambers. This pair was planted when the build-
ing was completed in 1919, and at the time they
were about 10 feet tall. Now reaching to the
building’s heights, they are the largest of their
species in the eastern United States. These trees
are among the strongest and most steady on otir
campus.

Spring is a time of transformations. The
leaves and flowers seem to explode overnight,
bringing the trees to life. We too are transformed
in this season, preparing for summer, graduation,
and more. This week we honor the eastern redcedar,
an old and faithful presence on our campus.

*Do you enjoy the Tree of the Week? The
Davidsonian is looking for someone to continue
the tree column next year. No experience or
expertise necessary. If interested, please contact
BrianCampbell (brcampbell) or Joy McCain
(jomccain).

— On the Scene at Davipson can

se

Earth Week 99. On campus! Get out there
land make a difference in the environment!
Coffeehouse. 8;15a.m.-11:15a.m.inthe 900
Room.

-}Senior Art Major. 10:00 a.m. - 6:00 p.m. all
week at the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Jumpin’ Java. More caffeine. You'll be jump-
ing around. 8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. at the
Outpost.

Twenty-One-Year-Old Night. Prospective
mothers like it (read John Dunwoody's edito-
rial). 10:00 p.m. - 12:30 a.m. in the 900 Room.

EARTH DAY ‘99! ‘Chambers Lawn.
CROP Lunch. Eat. 11:45 a.m. - 1:30
p.m. in the 900. Room.

DC Symphony Orchestra. from 8:00 -
9:30 p.m. in Love Auditorium.

Don’t forget the Senior Art Major ex-
hibit.

Reunion Weekend. Not
really for you. On cam-
pus all day.

Coffeehouse. You know
what it is. 8:15 - 11:15
p.m. in the Home Room.

Don’t forget Art Exhibit in
the VAC!

Onan Chess Tourney. 1-00 -
6:00 p.m. in the 900 Room.
Ensemble Vita Nova. 4:00 - 5:30
p.m. in Lingle Chapel.

Jumpin’ Java/Poetry Reading.
8:00 p.m. - 12:00 a.m. in the Out-
post.

Amnesty International. Meet-

ing in the Wilson Room from 8:00

“THURSDAY

- 9:00 p.m.

Clothing Drive. Give a little. 8:00 a.m. -
11:00 p.m. in the Conversation Pit.

Spring Convocation. 4:00 - 5:30 p.m. in
Love Auditorium.

Chess Club. Concentrate! Checkmate!
7:00 - 9:00 p.m.

A History Department talk. 7:00 - 9:00
p.m. in the 900 Room.

“The Wedding Singer” It's a movie, with
Adam Sandler! 9:30 - 11:00 p.m. in the 900
Room.

Kayak Rolling. Its fun! 7:30-9:00 p.m.
at Baker Sports Complex.

FLAG Meeting.
from 9:00 - 10:00 p.m.
“The Wedding Singer”
9:30°p.m. in the 900 Room.

Showing at

in the Wilson Room:

No soup
for you...

Cold Mountain Backpacking.

Not here. Out-there. 8:00 a.m.
- 11:00 p.m.

Indian Classical Series. 4:00 -
7:00 p.m. in Hodson Hall.

Open Mic. from 10:00 - 11:55_

p.m. in Outpost.

Juggling. from 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. in
the Morrison Room.
Jumpin’ Java. Same time and
place as Sunday.

