THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON

SPORTS

Sports Editor

Sunday, March 21, 1:05 PM

“Welcome,” the announcer on my television set boomed, “to this 'weekend’s March Madness
contest between the Davidson Wildcats and the Charleston Cougars.”

It was Elite Eight weekend, and I sat anxiously on the edge of my bed in Belk 249 staring intently
at the television set. Sitting on the beanbag on my floor was Wildcat star forward—and By personal
basketball hero—Landry Kosmalski. We anxiously me
awaited the tipoff—Landry had lunch from]
McDonald’s, I had a Dr. Pepper, and we each had a
Playstation controller in hand. Pah 2

A few weeks prior, I received from 989 Sports a 7
promotional copy of their latest video game, March | + ;
Madness 1999. Never one to turn down a game, I
waited until the off-season and then called up a
couple of the guys on the basketball team to set up a
game. ;

“Hi, Landry, this is Mike Anderson, I’ma writer
for The Davidsonian. I was hoping you could come over
on Sunday around 1:00 w play that Playstation game I’d
mentioned a few weeks ago?”

“Yeah, sure, Mike, that’d be fun, <<pause>> But I do
have to tell you...I have a lot of work to do this weekend. So
if ’m really busy on Sunday, would you, well, be upset with
me?”

“Well, no, Landry, of course not,” I marveled at his
thoughtful demeanor. I explained, “I just need to find one of
the guys from your team to play against so I can write that
article I’d been telling you about.”

“Oh, that’s right!” he remembered. “You were going to
write a story for this. I gotcha. I thought you just wanted
somebody to come over and play with you.”

No, Landry, I do have friends of my own, I swear. (However, I must
admit, that the number of visits from my friends of the female persuasion increased dramatically over
the next few minutes as word spread that Landry was. in my room.)

“Sure, Mike,” he continued, “I’ll do my best to see you at 1:00.”

Sunday afternoon rolled around, and now I was preparing to square off against “L Train” himself in a
conference showdown between two SoCon powerhouses.

As I powered up the game, Landry looked down confounded at the 12-button controller and said, “They
make too many buttons for this thing.”

I, having no actual athletic ability that might distract me from my pursuit of video game mastery, was
able to explain all the buttons to the 6’7” forward from Bedford, Texas.

Confident he had mastered the controls, Landry said as the referee tossed the ball in the air, “Watch me
now, baby!”

Isecured the tip, controlling Jody Lumpkin of Charleston and proceeded to bury a three pointer with
Sedric Webber. It was going to be that kind of night for Landry “Coach K (For A Day)” Kosmalski.

Landry inbounded the ball to #12 (college basketball video games.use only player numbers and
positions, no names) and drove up court before setting up in an offense. A few seconds later, a whistle
shrill indicated a three second violation on Ben Ebong, and it was Charleston ball. Another quick basket
put my Cougars out on a 5-0 run against Landry’s Wildcats.

ie

5 ene Romalski. arising 6’7” senior out of Bedford, Texas, sat down with The Davidsonian for a little college basketball game... Playstation style.

TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

“L Train” tallied his first points when #40 (who else!) buried a three pointer on the subsequent
possession.

“T don’t think anyone else is gonna get to shoot cis game!” joked Landry. At least I thought he was
joking. :

He wasn’t.

#40 took the shot the next time down the floor. And the next. And the one after that.

The Charleston players (not Duke material, but bright young lads nonetheless) quickly caught on
to Coach Kosmalski’s game plan, and started swarming Davidson’s #40.

“Oh, they’ re double-teaming me!” noted Landry, and then with a smooth push of a button pulled
up over the tandem of Cougar defenders to bury a three-pointer,
cutting my lead to 14-10 (and increasing the total points for

Davidson’s #40 to ten). Impressed with the ability of #40 to
score at will, Landry commented on the realism of the video
game.

Landry’s scoring supremacy was spelled for a mo-
ment when #40 came up short on a long three-pointer
midway through the first half. A 5°10” #12 exploded up

from the paint, captured the rebound in mid-air, and in

one fluid motion threw home an awe-inspiring windmill
jam. Okay, so maybe the game’s not that realistic after
all. (Sorry, Ali.)
As the clock ticked down to five minutes, I held a
scarce 14-12 lead.
A few trips down the court later, #12 passed the ball
inside to #52 Stephen Marshall. The Wildcat center
took two hard steps down the lane before barreling
over a Cougar defender, drawing an offensive foul.
“Man, this game is realistic,” bantered Kosmalski
with a smile.
I pulled out to a 28-22 lead over the next
few minutes, until Landry closed out the first half
. with an arena-shaking slam dunk off a breakaway.
Just in case I missed it, Landry found the
Instant Replay function on the Playstation. And we
watched the dunk again. And again. And again.
And...

“Mike, check it out from this angle!” Landry said to me.

And we watched it again. And again.

The line from the first half read: Charleston 28. Davidson 24. The ‘Cats’ #40 recorded 20 first-half
points, an assist, and a blocked shot. Ben Ebong and Ali Ton each chipped in a basket a piece.

A look at the lop-sided halftime line inspired Coach Kosmalski to spread the wealth, and distribute
the minutes a bit more evenly, and maybe even the shot opportunities.

“T’ll give Bergman a little run,” announced Landry. “Davor, get out of there!”

Landry sat Ben Ebong in favor of Chadd Holmes in the second half, as well as Ali Ton and Stephen
Marshall to make room for Michael Bree and Brian Turner. The fifth Wildcat to get the nod in the second
half? Good ol’ #40.

As the second half of play commenced, those crafty Cougar defenders noticed a trend in Coach
Kosmalski’s game plan. As #40 dribbled the ball around the perimeter, Landry furied, “Look at this,
Mike, you got 3 guys guarding me!”

Less than a minute into the second half, Landry’s Wildcats had knotted the game at 30-30. But my
Cougars shot a stunning 60% from the 3-point arc, and pulled out to a 51-41 lead with 2:25 to play.

“Yo, how are you not missing?!”
wondered Landry beside me.

He answered with yet another
3-point basket from #40 to shrink the
deficit to seven. “It tickles the twine!”
beamed the game’s announcer, who may
Tadd is no Frank Santore. As the announc-
ers continued to heap praise on the shoul-
ders of the digital #40, Landry noted, “His
shot even looks like mine!”

With but a minute to play and
Ton, Bree, Kosmalski, Ebong, and
Marshall on the court, Landry decided to
place the game squarely in the capable
hands of, you guessed it #40. The forward
took the inbound and proceeded to push
the ball up the court. Then the Turkish
point guard who jets around the court as if
che had a propeller attached to his back
tushed toward his teammate to relieve
him of ball-handling duties. But Landry
would have none of it. As he ran the point
of the fast break, he hollered, “Get out of
my way, Ali!”

In the end, it was my Cougars
that were ordering Landry’s Wildcats out
of the way, as Charleston notched a 58-48
victory. Landry did set the scoring record
on my Playstation machine though, as #40
finished the game with an amazing 39 of
his team’s 48 points.

A lot of Wildcat fans will miss
the fiery intensity that this exciting for- -
ward brings to the hardwood in the winter
months at Belk Arena. Until then, I guess,
there’s always March Madness ‘99. And
if you don’t have any friends to play with,

- you can always call Landry. ~
