DAVIDSON

_@ Students sing
carols outside
Chambers at
last Tuesday’s
frigid Christmas

party.

Jake Harrington

Co-ed eating houses

Story continued from Front page

Coed Eating Houses, Round II

Chaplain Rob Spach (84) attended David-
son while coed houses were enjoying a hey-day.
“It was a great atmosphere,” he recalls, “loads
of fun.” ;

Regarding the revival
Spach encourages, “I think it’s a great idea.
There are a lot of great things about the Court as
it is now, and I think a coed house would add
even more good things. It would add an element
that isn’t there now —-an opportunity where
both men and women have allegiance to the
same organization. It would be great for stu-
dents who want a coed eating environment.”

Critics point to the eventual failure of past
co-ed eating houses. William Brown, Director
of Student Activities, explains, “These kinds of
things are cyclical. Students are interested in
some things today that they won’t be ten years
from now.”

Bill Giduz (°74) was a founding member
of the first coed eating house in 1972. “We were
a group of freshmen that wanted to create our
own atmosphere,” the Director of College Com-
munications recalls. ““’We felt kind of revo-
lutionary in what we were doing.”

After struggling to find a title for their
trailblazing organization, the students settled
on Emanon (No-name spelled backwards).

“As far as keeping it going on a long-term
basis, somehow that’s never worked yet,” said
Giduz. “But there’s no reason not to offer it
again as an option. Whether it will succeed or
not, you never know — but it’s worth doing if
there are enough students to make a feasible go
at it.

of coed houses,

He Said, She Said

Carter and Erickson hope that the addition
of a coed eating house will improve relations
between male and female students.

This is a way to improve gender relations,
simply from exposure. It’s the same way that co-
ed dorms improve gender relations. The more
time you spend with someone in a natural setting,
the more you have to respect them. It’s going to
foster a natural atmosphere for men and women
to interact.”

“We don’t see this as the death of single sex
eating houses,” insists Carter. “We see it as
another option.”

As far as potential impact on the oft-criti-
cized dating scene at Davidson? “I think it will
give an arena for more dating to be possible,”
Carter says, “but it’s certainly not a cure-all.”

Erickson agrees, “I can’t say it’s going to
improve dating necessarily, but it’s going to
foster a natural atmosphere for men and women
to interact.”

The idea has been festering for months, but
just recently picked up steam. “We started think-
ing about it around the beginning of our sopho-
more year,” Erickson explains. “The idea that my
co-ed group of friends had to section off didn’t
seem very natural.”

“Davidson students are busy, so the
social aspect of Davidson often gets funneled
into eating—that’s where a lot of social interac-
tion happens,” states Carter. “For independents,
that option isn’t available as much.”

The college’s chief social programmer, Wil-
liam Brown, supports the notion. “My experi-
ence with coed houses is that they make a really
good contribution...They are reasonably well-
organized at this point. I can’t imagine why we
would have said ‘no’ to them. Along procedural
lines, I don’t see why they would be denied.”

How to give
ice cream as

SUMONT'S FINEST

grngd ERR Ys

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 1999

Davidson offers
visual support for
AIDS awareness.

By Jessica MERING ment.

AIDS Day by lining central campus walkways with
luminaries. The six hundred luminaries were placed
along paths near Chambers, Little Library and the
college union on December 2; each luminary was
adorned with the symbolic red ribbon signifying
AIDS awareness. This is the second year that the
luminaries have been in place. They were orga-
nized this year by Georgia Ringle of Student Health,
Rebecca Moore and David Wheeler. Other mem-
bers of the Davidson community also participated,
including members of various residence halls, a
group of students from North Mecklenburg High
School, and Davidson College Presbyterian
Church’s Regional AIDS Interfaith Network
(RAIN).

December 1; the theme for World AIDS Day 1999
was “AIDS - End the Silence, Listen, Learn, Live!”
The day has been recognized for eleven years and
is coordinated by the American Association for
World Health. The association seeks not only to
make the public aware of the facts concerning
AIDS but also to suggest fundraising and involve-
ment opportunities to encourage individuals and
communities to take action against AIDS. World
* AIDS Day is intended to increase support for those
suffering of AIDS as well as to provide ways to
contribute to AIDS research, prevention and treat- _ ness.

Staff Writer Although Davidson does not have a formal
group on campus to promote AIDS awareness,
many students and faculty are involved in bring-
ing activities to campus to support the cause,
including Ringle and Dr. Mary Thornberry, a
Political Science professor. In the past, the col-
lege has planted trees in support of AIDS aware-
ness. There is a red maple outside of the Student
Health Center which commemorates members of
the Davidson community who have died of AIDS.
Currently, there is an exhibit in’ the Union in
remembrance of Davidson alumni who have died
of AIDS. Each quilt square on display bears the
name of one of the AIDS’s victims and is accom-
panied by some words describing the person. The
annual display is in its fourth year and is organized
by Scotty Nicholls.

The entire, internationally recognized AIDS
quilt visited Davidson several years ago and Ringle
hopes to bring select pieces of it back in the spring.
She notes that the population, including the David-
son community are “amazingly misinformed”
about the transmission and severity of AIDS and
she is looking for ways to increase activities and
events which will raise awareness on campus.
Next year, she hopes to implement the luminary
project in a way so that each member of the
community will have the opportunity to create and
place one luminary, thus signifying the campus-
wide acknowledgment and support of AIDS aware-

Davidson College recently recognized World

World AIDS Day is annually celebrated on

Che Dabtdsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

NEWS premarin CQPINIONS AND EDITORIALS

Senior Editors Pai ‘Business Manager, Senior Editor
LAURA McCANDLISH; °_ PETER CLARK=_‘y” >, MELISSA ANN
ANN GREGORY *. ! Ap ‘deCASTRIQUE

Photographet Advertising ‘Manager

JAKE HARRINGTON PETER CLARK ARTS.& LIVING

; Senior Editor

SPORTS Ad Designers SETH DAVIS

Senior Editors BEN COVINGTON

Photographers

MIKE ANDERSON. . CADER HOWARD
BURGIN HARDIN JESSIE # BOGO
t Circulation Managers ADAM SOTO

Photographer CINDY CLARK

ANNA JUDY INA SPECHAR Head Gopy Editors

Layout Editers 2, et Extraordinaire
CADER HOWARD» DEREK KVERNO IRENE MIDDLETON

IRENE MIDDEEEON
“DAN WINGATE” Web Editor

STEPHEN GAMBOA

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

[re SS SS sun

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at ;
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html.

_ Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-

mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.

| Opinions expressed in letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily

The Bavidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of

reflect the views of the Editorial Board of The Bavidsonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00
per year. Advertising rates are available upon request.

' Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

ENTE OTe 8 SOS Cee Se eMC Ee RE OF
