__ THE DAVIDSONIAN

VS —s__._._ TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1999

Vill Thompson ’00 replaces Cintra

Pollack ’99 as Union Board President

By Keits HETHERINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Current President of the Union Board, Cintra
Pollack ’99, and Union President elect, Will Th-
ompson ’00, have been meeting regularly to pre-
pare for Thompson to officially take charge of the
Union Board. President of the Student Govern-
ment Association (SGA), Ann-Harriot Fisher ’99,
appointed Thompson early in 1998 to fill indepen-
dent senator Joe Haywood’s seat after the senator
resigned in order to travel abroad. When asked
about his past leadership experience, Thompson
said, “I served ona Student Government Associa-

an average of two events each day and for some
four hundred events each year.

Anyone is welcome to submit an application
to the Union Executive Board to be considered for
a committee chairmanship. An interview is re-
quired. The interview sign-up sheet is located

beside the main doorway of the Student Union. ~

Once the twenty-one committee heads have been
selected, “each will recruit committee members.”
Thompson emphasized that “good committees are
crucial to the success of the Union Board. Alone,
no board can be much of anything.” Recently,
committees have suffered from a lack of members.
Working out the problems in the committee
system is particularly important because the new
president’s agenda will

place an even greater
strain on every commit-
tee. Thompson’s agenda
includes “bringing more
big name bands to
Davidson, working to
draw students to Union
events, and working to
end the separation of the
College community into
Union and Court.” Pol-
lack said, “Bringing
popular bands to cam-
pus is something the
Union Board has tried
to do. In last couple
years, however, the
price required to bring
acclaimed bands to
Davidson has grown ex-
y ponentially.” The Union

a. A aes |
@ Will Thompson ‘00
tion committee as a freshman, but not until the
second half of my sophomore year did I become
seriously involved in extracurriculars.”
Although the job of Union Board President
has traditionally required the maintaining of a
close working relationship with the SGA Presi-
dent and his government, the office of Union
President and the responsibilities associated with
it are different from the leadership of the SGA. The

2 SS ee j
Giduz Photo c/o College Communications

budget has failed to keep
pace with rising operat-
ing costs.

When asked to discuss the Union Budget,
Pollack said, “although the Union has roughly two
thousand more dollars this year, the increase is the
result of our being allowed to roll over some
monies from the previous year’s budget, not a
serious budgetary increase.” Some saudent lead-
ers feel that a hike in the Union operating budget,
currently totaling two hundred thousand dollars, is

committed to operating such programs as those

made possible by the College Union.

Pollack, nevertheless, feels thatimprovements

at the Union have been
made even in the absence
of a larger budget. She
said, “the Union Board is
spending dollars more ef-
ficiently than when I as-
sumed leadership of the
board now almost one
year ago.” Thinking care-
fully about expenditures
has also forced the Board
“to have a clearer picture
of where it is going.”
While excited about im-
provements in financial
planning and manage-
ment, Pollack said she
“certainly didn’t think
that 74% of African-
Americans were “dissat-
isfied’ or ‘very dissatis-
fied’ with the Union.”
The statistic is from the
1998 first fall Union poll.

When asked what
she thought was the most
successful event of her
time as Union president, Pollack said, “events are
successful not necessarily because of the numbers
that'come to them. I think that events are success-
ful because of the mix of people who attend and the
impact that it has on them when they leave. So

intra Pollack ‘99

many times, I actually am not the judge of
whether an event was successful.”

Thompson complimented Pollack’s feel-

e ing regarding success
saying, “It’s kind of an
individual thing.” The
two presidents did say,
however, what events
they thought were the
best. Thompson
thought the Bela Fleck
concert was the year’s
best event and Pollack
believed Gloria
Steinam’s visit to
Davidson in the fall
was the number one
event. Both saw the
Union’s broadening
commitment to the
community by hosting
such events as the

Common. Grounds
Meéting as_ real
progress.

Pollack ex-

pressed her support for
Thompson, saying.
“I’m wholly confident
_ in the next president's
abilities to continue my work and improve upon
it.” Pollack, a recipient of the Watson fellow-
ship, is graduating in the spring. Thompson's
term as Union Board President will continue
into the fall semester of 1999.

nna Judy

Che Babvtdsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

Union Board is responsible for several annual appropriate. Advocates of a larger budget regu- WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
events, including Winter Luau, Spring Frolics, jarjy point to the fact that the Activities Tax
Mardi Gras Masquerade, freshmen orientation, recently increased. The Activities Tax is between . Business Manager :
and a Christmas party. According to Pollack, the one and two percent of every student’s tuition. News Editors SCOTT REEDER Op-Ed Editor
1998 campus wide Christmas party “attractedover Two-thirds of the monies raised by the tax are CARRIE ARTHUR SETH ALLEY
seven hundred people.” The Board also oversees ASHLEY E. KING Circulation Manager MELISSA ANN
EUGENIA LEATH deCASTRIQUE
Pa . Sports Editors
Campus Police Blotter | siSccn “smut gener
PETER CLARK SETH DAVIS
DAVID JOHNSTON KELLS HETHERINGTON
Sports Layout Editors
ComPILeD BY CARRIE ARTHUR said that it was locked with a U-lock. ADEE AG TES Head Copy Editors HiglorEditor
News Editor WHITNEY BLAKE ANNA JUDY
On 2/5/99 due to a telephoned Web Editor PETER MARTIN ef ;
Second Semester Alcohol Violations complaint, the Campus Police STEPHEN GAMBOA ALLISON SISK Newspcyout Editors
On 1/11/99 at 9:30 PM on the first dispersed a loud party at NBF 306. ELDER GWIN
floor of Irwin, one student received a Cavisonise Ad Designers EVAN McCORMICK
violation. On 2/8/99, Residence Life Area NATHANIEL LOTZE BEN COVINGTON
Coordinator Danielle Hiar reported CADER HOWARD

On 1/16/99 at 12:26 AM at the corner
of Patterson Court, one student
received a.violation.

On. 2/6/99 at 1:00 AM in Chambers
Room 321, Officer Dane Laney found
two students smoking and drinking
wine in Chambers as he was
completing his routine patrol to turn
off the building’s lights. He cited
both students with violations.

Other Incidents

On 1/22/99, astudent reported that his
bike was stolen from the bike rack
outside Richardson Dormitory. The
student valued the bike at $255 and

that some unknown persons had
vandalized the east side of Flowe and
the columns on the east side of Hart
with paint balls. The paint balls had
also damaged the walkways by Flowe
and between the Jamieson and Hart
buildings.

Note:

Since the beginning of second
semester, the Campus Police has
received five reports for stolen bikes.
Of those five stolen bikes, two haye
been recovered. The Campus Police
reminds students to lock their bikes
and to ask before borrowing other
students’ bikes.

Founded in 1914
“Vail Commons’ Foremost College Weekly”

You can also view The DBavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/

Tuesdays during the academi ca | ic year by the students of

to:

