THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 13, 1999

Vast’s marketing: On telling Davidson’s story

By Micuaet J. KRUSE
Editor Emeritus

ill Jackson sees the license plates. A 1957
graduate, the former political science pro
fessor remembers a regional institution.

But the parking lots on campus now tell a
different story. Students’ cars show tags from
New Jersey, Connecticut, Ohio, Arkansas, Vir-
ginia, California, even New Mexico and Alaska.
Word has gotten out - that is, to a certain socioeco-
nomic and educational subsection of the popula-
tion. Under the direction of Nancy Cable, the
Office of Admission is now attracting more stu-
dents from more places than ever before _

But Bobby Vagt is thinking bigger than that.

In an effort to increase Davidson’s sphere of
influence, the third-year president formed a mar-
keting task force some 10 months ago. The ad hoc
committee includes representatives from college
relations, athletics, admissions, institutional ad-
vancement, and the alumni office.

The group is scheduled to spend the next year
or two establishing a clear battle plan before be-
ginning to disseminate the Davidson message
whatever that is or ends up being. “I call it imag-
ing,” Vagt said earlier this month. “We're trying
to come up with ways and means by which David-
son College — with all its pieces in a coherent,
consistent, premeditated way — projects an image
about who and what it is.”

It’s about time.

Originally from the Boston suburb of Wellesley,
Mass., I was the first person from my high school
to attend Davidson. As far as most of my North-
east-centric peers are concerned, I might as well be
going to college on the moon.

Here’s a typical conversation during a break
early in my college career:

“So Davidson? You like going to school in
Pennsylvania?”

“Davidson’s not in Pennsylvania. That’s
Dickinson. Davidson’s in North Carolina. And
Denison is in Ohio.”

“Oh— then what kind of school is Davidson?
Big?”

“No. Not at all. It’s got roughly 1,600
Students. It’s a liberal arts college.”

“Like Williams or Amherst?”

“Exactly — only we have decidedly better
weather.”

Such anonymity, though, is hardly confined
to faraway places. A friend of mine who graduated
last year was from Lexington, N.C. He continu-
ally had to explain to folks in his hometown that,
no, he didn’t go to Davidson County Community
College.

A girl in Charlotte asked me this summer why
I lived in Davidson. I told her I went to school
there.

Then the question: “What school?”

“Davidson.”

“But I thought Davidson was a town.”

“It is. But it was a college before it was a
town, Davidson College.”

A blank stare.

Granted, this was not normal. (Nor, by the
way, was this girl.) Most Charlotteans do know
Davidson exists. Many of them, though, don’t
know just how good it is — that it’s the South’s
premier liberal arts institution, that it’s home to 22
Rhodes Scholars, that it churns out more CEOs per

capita than just about any school on the planet.
Take the Observer, for example. In an article
a few weeks ago, a story in the local section
assessed the incoming classes at various
Mecklenburg County bastions of higher educa-
tion. UNC Char-
lotte, for instance,

— in other words, more brochures than press
releases. :
From solely a publications standpoint, the

office is rather prolific. According to Director of -

News and Photography Bill Giduz, it puts out 300
to 400 jobs a
year, includ-

rejected some
people. (That was
apparently news
in and of itself.)

Kruse Spotlight

ing thé Jour-
nal, the
Chronicle,
the Oak Row

Queens, which
used to be all-fe-
male, is gunning for an upped male presence.
Johnson C. Smith’s class size, on the other hand,
stayed put. So, the article made sure to point out,
did Davidson’s.

This was news? Davidson is highly selec-
tive. Cable and her troops are not struggling to fill
the approximately 400 slots available for any
given class. Of course Davidson’s enrollment
remained relatively stagnant.

Just last week, the Observer's headline writ-
ers said Davidson’s men’s soccer team “escaped”
with a 2-0 win at fourth-ranked Clemson. Es-
caped? A 2-0 winin soccer — no matter the teams,
no matter the rankings — doesn’t constitute an
“escape.”

So what gives? Why such disrespect from the
local media?

“You can sit there and tell those people ev-
erything,” said Rick Bender, in his first year as
Davidson’s sports information director. “But they
already know what type of story they want to
write.”

But how can a school consistently ranked
among the nation’s leading liberal arts colleges
remain so unknown to so many?

“T think the use of the term ‘marketing’ has
been at best only tolerated, at worst dismissed,”
Vagt said of Davidson’s dubious marketing his-
tory. “The notion seemed at variance with the
ideals of this institution, that somehow it cheap-
ened Davidson as just another commercial enter-
prise.”

“Davidson has quietly been about doing its
work,” said Meg Kimmel, a 1977 alum who now
serves as the head of college relations. “Davidson’s
job has been to teach and educate, not to market.”

“It does not come naturally for us to broad-
cast our good works,” Cable added. “It’s embed-
ded in the culture and history of this institution not
to get real showy.” .

Or, at least when it comes to marketing, to get
particularly busy.

The college introduced the current diamond-

_ and-bar logo in1989. Up until that point, every

department or organization did its own thing — on
its own letterhead, in its own font, with its own
words.

That’s where the task force comes in.

Above all else, the Vagt-assembled, Cable-led

cohorts aim to get everybody on the same page.
Then college relations and sports informa-

tion, the two major on-campus news offices, must

. find an efficient and effective way to distribute

information.

The task force has upped the ante. But does
either office have the personnel — the sheer num-
bers — to realize Vagt’s vision?

The college relations staff has traditionally
focused on publications more than media relations

Report, and
Track of the
Cat, along with scores of posters, flyers, and
alumni notices.

Giduz supplies almost all the photography
and some of the copy. Kimmel also takes care of
words and oversees the entire operation.

“We try to do it all,” Giduz said. “We try to
do what we can with what we have. It’s never
enough, but that’s not my decision to make. The
higher-level folks have to balance the needs of the
institution with its resources. We've struggled
with that for a long time.”

“It’s all a juggling act,” Kimmel added.
“Maybe we need to reassess how we use our team.
But that’s a problem in every office at the college.
Everyone is working awfully hard to get their
work done.”

Across campus in the bowels of Baker, the
sports information folks can relate.

Bender took over this summer for Emil Parker
when the longtime Wildcat SID retired. He cur-
rently has a secretary, an assistant, an intern, and
a bit of student help.

Together, they put out media guides for all 21
varsity sports, compile stats, and write releases for
local and regional news outlets. They are, or need
to be, a big part of the media relations push.

“We can doa lot of things better with the staff
we currently have,” athletic director Jim Murphy
said. “And we can do more with what we have.”

Why was there a reluctance to do this inthe
past?

“There’s sort of a Southern. modesty in a
way,” .Giduz explained, “the idea that it’s. not
polite to brag.”

But do you have to brag today?

Said Giduz: “Probably so.”

With that in mind, Vagt appeared in a series of 30-
second so-called “‘advertorials” this summer on
WSOC-TV, the ABC affiliate in Charlotte.

The spots weren’t just by and for Davidson.
They supported Education 2000, a public schools
effort in Charlotte and Mecklenburg County. The
campaign has seven official backers. Davidson is
the only institution of higher education.

“We got out of that two things,” Vagt said of

the primetime commercials. “We got a chance in
25 seconds to say something about Davidson and
we got a chance to support public education.
“A significant portion of the people of Charlotte
don’t see Davidson as part of the Charlotte com-
munity. Well, Charlotte is absolutely vital as a
source of students and a home for alums. It’s
absolutely critical that there’s some appreciation
there of what and who Davidson is.”

Even so, Jackson didn’t like the commercials -

one bit. “I just didn’t get it,” he said. “I’ve never
known Davidson to so blatantly try to get its name
out there. It’s hard for me to imagine (former
presidents) Sam Spencer or John Kuykendall go-

ing on primetime network TV to plug Davidson
College.”

Jackson is not alone. Vagt has his detractors.
From Day One, he embodied Mr. Wrong for old-
school Davidsonians — no Ph.D., too business-
man-like, all about the bottom line.

My response then and now? Good. The last
thing Davidson needs is another pie-in-the-sky
intellectual. That’s what the faculty’s for.

The trustees in 1997 made no false pretense
about why they hired Vagt. The college needed
money; he knew how to make it, raise it, and
cultivate it. This is a man, after all, who once
helped save a desperate New York City from
financial ruin.

“I do come with some experience which
makes me appreciate the essential nature of letting
others know who and what we are,” the president

- said. “With respect to our peers, we’re late to this

party.”

And there’s so much to promote at Davidson.
The school was ranked No. 11 among the nation’s
liberal arts pool in the most recent U.S. News and
World Report. Pick any student or professor at
random — and chances are good you'll find a
marketable story.

But as former Davidson public relations man
and erstwhile Mecklenburg Gazette editor Taylor
Blackwell told me last year, “There’s no end to the
amount of time you can spend on making some-
thing good better — once a product is good,
publicity can make it great.”

“We don’t need to change Davidson to speak
to the market,” Cable said. “We just need to make
sure our message is coherent. The point of this is
not to go out there with banners and big neon signs.
It has the potential, without changing our funda-
mental quality or culture, to help broaden and
deepen the ways in which we are known.”

“And we’re not staging things to come up
with stuff that’s newsworthy,” Vagt echoed.
“We're proud of what we are, and we're much
better known nationally now than we've ever
been.”

But more can and should be done, The task
force is the first step.

Words of humble advice from this current
student, future alum, and aspiring member of the
media: Use names and faces instead of numbers.
Sell the personalities before you sell the school —
because, in doing so, you will sell the school.

Being No. 11 is great. Anybody who says it
doesn’t matter — usually an annual school of
thought — is short-sighted if not plain wrong. But
Davidson’s message will come across as so much
more powerful through the lens of the people that
make the place.

Tell me about Student A making a difference
in the community. Tell me about Student B
studying something wacky on the other side of the
world. Tell me about Professor So-and-so doing
an archaeological dig. Tell me about Dr. Alum
working on a cure for cancer.

Some say education is boring. It doesn’t have
to be. Not this kind of education. Not portrayed in
this way.

“This is where we have to be,” Vagt said.
“Davidson has been very confident with who and
what it is. We didn’t feel the need to go out there
and impress others.

“But now there’s an extreme need. Every-
body else is doing it. We don’t have achoice. Not
to do it would be to die.”

Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner...

isclaimer: The following article is in

tended to inform, entertain, and amuse

the population of Davidson College. It
should not be construed as slander or misinforma-
tion and should not be taken seriously at any cost.
Finally, any similarities to real people, places, or
events are entirely purposeful.

The first question that comes to mind is:
“what’s the deal with the lame disclaimer?” Well,
to satisfy your question and provide myself with a
topic for this week’ s article, Iam going to explain.
For those of you who have been loyally following
my witticisms for the last two weeks, you may
remember that I made a comment last week about
. certain parties at a certain dormitory. I discovered
two things this week: 1) people are actually read-
ing my column and 2) they don’t all share my
enlightened views. Yes, I know how unbelievable

that second statement is. But, it is more believable
than the first.

What also amazed me was that the discontent
with my article seemed confined to one dorm, one
hall in fact. Perhaps it is merely a random cluster,
like a cancer cluster. Or, perhaps the power lines
really are having an adverse effect on this hall. In
any case, their mass discontent resulted in this hall
proffering an invitation for me to a lovely hall
dinner. I attended it the other night (it should be
noted that they were 3 minutes late) and every-
thing went just fine. I had the opportunity to meet
new people and announce to them that I was
running for SGA, although I sincerely doubt I will
receive their support. My conclusion: if you would
like to invite me out to dinner, it is highly probable

, that I will accept and you may be the subject of my
next column.

The reason for my choosing this topic does
not center on my gastronomical preferences, rather
it is to discuss why people get so upset over such
trivial matters, The first could be simply that they
were bored and wanted something interesting to
do on a Wednesday night. Or, it is possible that
they were rather inebriated when they came up
with the grand plan of inviting me to dinner.

Perhaps it was an attempt by the hall counselors to |

strengthen hall solidarity by providing them with
acommon foe. I know not which, or if any, of these
factors led to dinner last night. I can only theorize.

People get pissed off. This is a basic law of
nature. What differs is how people react to the
“piss-off” stimuli. Some laugh it off (my columns
are intended to be tongue-in-cheek). Others brood
and build up rage. Then, one day when they have

heard the purple dinosaur one too many times, all
hell breaks loose and suddenly they are at Best
Buy purchasing anew TV, VCR, and home enter-
tainment system. Then there are those that blow
up immediately, gather a group of like-minded
malcontents, and take the matter into their own
hands.

For those of you who know how to take a
joke, come by and hang out with me anytime. For
the brooders, don’t purchase firearms. And, as for
the malcontents, I live in Basement Rich.

Pseudo-Editor’s Note: My e-mail address is easily

attainable and should be used in the event that a
comment or criticism pops into your head.

Andrew MacDonald ’03
