2%

oo 4 Sa 3B 7.

yy

’>Cats swept by Bulldogs in weekend series

By Bro Krirr
Sports Writer

Davidson baseball entered the weekend hoping to
forget about disappointing losses to Fairfield, St.
John’s University and Winthrop.

They hoped to enda four game winless streak.

They hoped to pick-up a victory over the
conference powerhouse Citadel Bulldogs.

* However The Citadel had other ideas as they
swept the series, 8-6, 14-1, 11-1, behind the domi-
nant arms of pitchers Brian Wiley, Dallas
McPherson, and Rodney Hancock.

Davidson (3-21-1, 2-10) remains in tenth
place in conference narrowly ahead of Wofford
College in the standings. Davidson needs to gain
more victories in order to solidify a spot in the
conference tournament at season’s end. Only the
top eight teams are invited.

“This weekend’s three losses set us back, but
we are looking forward to next weekend with
Western Carolina to earn the much-needed vic-
tory,” said co-captain Kurt Davis. “We are pitch-
ing well when we are not hitting. We seem to hit
well and our defense will cost us some runs. We
just need to gel. Our key over the next few weeks
is to gel.” ;

His words could not be any more profound
than after this weekend’s conference losses.

In the first match-up of the series Davidson’s
pitching staff was effective in silencing the Bull-
dog bats as they narrowly lost 8-6.
Unfortunately the Wildcat defense committed 4
costly errors which led to six unearned runs. Ryan
Stroker (1 4) pitched six strong innings, allowing
eight runs on seven hits.

Senior Fritz Porter pitched the last three in-
nings with near-perfect pitching. He did not allow
arun and gave up only two hits while walking one
batter.

Wiley - arguably the best pitcher in the South-
ern Conference - was just as impressive. He
relinquished only two hits as he struck out 14 to
increase his league-leading total.

Golfers swing into spring season

By Davip MoncureE
Sports Writer

As spring fever permeated the warming March

afternoons, the Davidson Golf team were teeing
off their spring season.
The golfers participated in three tournaments thus
far this March, and according to senior David
Deschler the team has “been a little rusty from the
winter lay off.” The rustiness is expected at first,
but as the season continues the team is looking to
move up from their current standing in the bottom
third of the field of competitors.

Sophomore Scott Shupe pointed out that it is
also very hard to get back into a practice rhythm
for the spring season because of the heavy school
workload. “At other larger Division I schools the
golfers are able to practice more because they have
their own private tutors and can miss class. Here
(at Davidson) we need to go to class and keep up
with work, allowing for less practice time.”

A big key for turning the spring season into a
success will be finding more practice time and
translating the improvement from practice rounds

Yet he grew tired in the ninth, giving the
Wildcats an opportunity.
Wiley walked Jeremiah Parvin and Tim Frend to
start the inning. Kyle Bunn relieved the fading
Wiley and the Wildcats took advantage of the new
arm. Left fielder Brian Joyce ripped a line drive up
the middle which Chris Morris misplayed allow-

. ing two runners to score as Joyce advanced to

third. Davis followed Joyce’s suit with a double to
right center on the next pitch.

Bunn was pulled for closer Jay Morgan.
Bunn did not record an out. Morgan gave up one
hit to junior co-captain Brian Brown and allowed
Davis to score from third ona balk before he struck
out Ryan Stroker to cap off the two run Citadel
victory:

“We were given an opportunity to win but we
came up short,” said Davis. “When you face a
pitcher the caliber of Wiley, you have to take
advantage of every opportunity you get.”

In the second game of the series, Davidson’s
poor luck in the field continued as they committed
six errors in the 13 run loss. The Citadel’s
McPherson shut down the Wildcats for only five
hits over seven complete innings.

Davidson’s Wes Self allowed only seven hits
over five innings, yet still recorded the loss. Self
(2-4) now leads the team with a respectable 5.45
era after giving up only three earned runs on
Saturday afternoon.

Parvin scored the Wildcats only run ona wild
pitch in the second inning.

In the final game of the series the Bulldogs
rode the arm of Hancock to claim the 11-1 victory.

The Citadel exploded for six runs in the ninth
erasing any hopes the Wildcats had for a late
comeback victory. Phillip Hartig highlighted the
inning with a three run triple.

Garland’ Yarborough (0-5) pitched well
enough to earn his first victory of the season. He
held the Citadel to five runs over seven and one
third innings, but Hancock proved the better on
Sunday as he only allowed one run over eight
innings.

Davidson will face Western Carolina next
weekend in Cullowhee, NC.

into low scores during tournaments.

The first tournament of the spring season was
at Campbell University from March 4 — March 6.
Deschler led the Wildcats, who finished eighth
overall in the tournament, with a two round score
of 158. Oliver Cross followed with a two round
score of 160. Sophomore Austin Zeigler finished
with 162, fellow. sophomore Sean Davidson with
163, and senior David Alexander turned in a 166.
After a successful fall season, the golfers looked to
scrape off the rust that had developed over the
winter months. The next two tournament perfor-
mances would see the ‘Cats returning toward top
form.

The second tournament, held at the Birkdale
Golf Course in Huntersville, consisted of a much
larger field of teams. Despite improved individual
scores, Davidson still finished fifteenth overall in
the tournament. The tournament was also a very
tough draw for Davidson as our golfers competed
against much larger Division I schools such as the
University of North Carolina, the University of
Nebraska, and the University of Kansas. Oliver
Cross led the Wildcats. with a three round indi-

@ Tim Frend
(above) slaps a
base hit, and
senior captain and
catcher Kurt Davis
throws a ball down
to second in
between innings.
The Wildcats,
with a conference
record: of 2-10 and
3-21 overall, are
looking to climb
into the top eight
in the Southern
Conference in
order to qualify for
the Southern
Conference
Tournament.

vidual score of 230, which included rounds of 75, .

76, and 79.

Their third spring tournament, held last week-
end at East Carolina, also saw the ‘Cats fare quite
well against some stiff competition. Deschler shot
the lowest three round total for the Cats, finishing
with 230. The highlight of the tournament for the
Wildcats was an excellent weekend by Shupe. His
rounds of 79, 78, and 76 were very respectable
considering this was his first tournament of the
spring.

Deschler stated that the “conference tourna-

ment is really important for the team this year.”
The Wildcats finished fourth overall in last year’s
conference tournament and hope to improve on
that showing this year in Sapphire Valley, NC
April 16-18.
“The key to beating the top teams is consistency,”
says Shupe. Though it is very hard to play three
great rounds of golf in one weekend, the Wildcat
golfers need to be as consistent as possible in order
to be a contender in their three remaining tourna-
ments.

Tournament.

Weat Davidsonian Sports would like to extend our sincere apologies to the Wildcat
wrestling team and coaching staff, our readers (few as they may be), and Davidson
Sports writer David Moncure for the errors in last week’s edition.

The misinformation contained in the scoreboard along the article (that was then
wrongly transferred into the text of Mr. Moncure’s article by the editorial staff). The
information—regarding the individual performances of a few top Wildcat wrestlers—
was obtained on deadline night from Davidson’ s wrestling page. ..we failed to note that
the page still contained the outdated results from the 1997 Southern Conference

Again, we fully express our apologies to the wrestling team and our congratulations
on their success at the 1999 Southern Conference Tournament in Greensboro.

TRACK & FIELD
Raleigh Relays

@ North Carolina State

MARCH 26 & 27

Mike Anderson

Mike Anderson

Sports Information Department

Player Profile:

LIZ NUGENT

Next Week:

Men’s & Women’s Track
Women’s Lacrosse

