12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

AVIC

son gallery

Arts & LIVING

eatures hyper-real

TUESDAY, MARCH 30, 1999

paintings by Naoto Nakagawa

Press RELEASE

Song of the Earth, an exhibition of hyper-
realistic paintings by Japanese artist Naoto
Nakagawa, will open on Thursday, April 1, in the
William H. Van Every, Jr. Gallery at Davidson
College and remain open throughout the month.
The exhibition’s paintings feature clods of grass
that can almost be described as portraits. Some are
studies on site in the field, and some are abstracted
from their natural environment and brought into
the artist’s studio for meticulous observation.

Nakagawa will be in Davidson to talk about
his work at 7 p.m. on Thursday, April 15. The
exhibition and his talk are in the Katherine & Tom
Belk Visual Arts Center at the corner of Main and
Griffith Streets. A reception will follow the talk.

A full color poster that includes an essay by
Gail Levin, noted art historian and former curator
at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New
York, is available at the Van Every Gallery. The
exhibition and poster are funded in part with grants
from the North Carolina Arts Council, a state
agency, and the Japan foundation (pending).

Gallery hours are 10. a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays,
and noon to 4 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday, with
hours extended until 8 p.m. on Thursday evenings.
The galleries will be closed from April 3 — 6 for
Easter break. Free parking is available behind the
Visual Arts Center, and the building is wheelchair

accessible. For additional information, call 704/

892-2519, or 704/892-2344 week days.

Born in Kobe, Japan, in 1944, Naoto
Nakagawa studied at Naniwa Art University in
Osaka before leaving for New York City in 1962
at age 18. He attended the Brooklyn Museum Art
School and began exhibiting his paintings at a
number of galleries. His first solo exhibition of
paintings, in 1968, was held at the Judson Memo-
rial Church in Greenwich Village, where for atime
the avant-garde Judson Dance Theater attracted
many prominent artists and intellectuals.

ere st ,

In the following years Nakagawa established
himself as painter of hyper-realism, contrasting
mechanical objects such as television set and elec-
tric fans with birds, flowers, fish, masks and shells.
He has always been concerned with getting as
close as possible to the very skin of nature. In
preparation for new paintings in the past, he per-
formed a ritual “earth dance,” rolling himself in

Pe, FIPS

R

“Still Life With Earth” by Naoto Nakagawa

the canvas after a layer of paint had been applied,
“to free myself, to imprint myself like a fossil into
the painting.”

In a catalogue essay written in 1991, art
historian Dore Ashton described Nakagawa’ s work.
Ashton wrote, “Nakagawa longs to come so close
to nature ‘of and on it’s own’ that he spent many
years seeking almost magical ways to enter into its
being . . . what is significant in this celebration of

nature is the victory of an artist who wishes to
erase the obstacles to his union with the earth.”
Song of the Earth at Davidson College is
curated by Perry L. Nesbitt, director of the Van
Every/Smith Galleries. The paintings in the ex-
hibit present an irrepressible majesty and natural
beauty. In one, Blades of Grass, 1998, Nakagawa
presents an earth clod against the backdrop of the

city, invoking comparisons and attention to duali-
ties. Lingering in Nakagawa’s thoughts is the
passion of the painter Jackson Pollack, who, when
asked if he painted from nature replied, “I am
nature.”

In the United States Nakagawa’s work has
been exhibited at the Nielson Gallery in Boston,
and at New York’s OK Harris Gallery, Allen
Frumkin Gallery, and Victoria Monroe Fine Art

lent Body. This paying job is available only to ne )

“students who want to see things change

ota

Gallery. In Japan he has exhibited at the Fuji
Television Gallery in Tokyo, and the Kasahara
Gallery in Osaka. His work has been included in
numerous museum exhibitions, most recently the
landmark Scream Against the Sky: Japanese Art
Since 1945, that originated at the Yokohama Mu-
seum in Japan and traveled to the Guggenheim
Museum Soho, the San Francisco Museum of
Modern Art and the Center for the Arts at Yerba
Buena Gardens.

Nakagawa received a National Endowment
for the Arts grant for painting in 1978. His work
is included in many private and public collections,
among them the New York Museum of Modern
Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, the
Worchester Museum, and the National Museums
of Modern Art in Kyoto and Osaka, Japan. He
currently teaches at Columbia University and the
Parsons School of Design in New York. In addi-
tion, Nakagawa has been invited to lecture at the
Japan Society, Asia Society, the Museum of Mod-
ern Art in New York, the San Francisco Museum
of Modern Art, Manhattan Cable Television, Na-
tional Public Radio and various colleges and uni-
versities.

Tadao Ogura, former directorof the National
Museum of Modern Artin Kyoto, wrote in arecent
catalog of his first encounter with Nakagawa’s
work in 1972. Ogura wrote, “Even though he left
his country at an early age for New York, the
center of the international art world, and immersed
himself in many of the contemporary art move-
ments, he has developed an original vision
grounded in the spirituality and traditions of Asian
and Japanese culture.”

All programs of the Van Every/Smith Galler-
ies are free and the public is welcome. Please call
the gallery office for more information during the
week: 704/892-2519, or the gallery desk on week-
ends: 704/892-2520.

