THE DAVIDSONIAN

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

@ Laura

By Ketis HETHERINGTON
Arts and Living Editor

On Thursday, February 18, one of the three
Breath Alcohol Testing Units -BAT Mobiles-
operated by the State of North Carolina visited
campus as part of the Alcohol Awareness Week
activities.

Students who visited the bus were invited tor
wear one of two pairs of special goggles. The

enoit walks the line wearing goggles that simulated

r

year.” These arrests make up only a fraction of the
nearly 75,000 people arrested for DWI- Driving
While Impaired. Most of these arrests made by the
BAT Mobile were at highway checkpoints that are
frequently organized to check randomly for in-
toxicated motorists. In fact, a checkpoint at an
undisclosed location involved the visiting BAT
Mobile last Thursday evening. In addition to
helping apprehend drunk drivers, the BAT Mo-
biles participate in educational programs such as

goggles simulated its visit tocam-
the effects of .08 pus, and . the
and .16 blood al- é . training of po-
cohol levels on “A motorist with a blood alcohol level of ice officers.

one’s vision.  ,.08% or higher will be arrested and then air N - e
Wearing the ; . ° ” obiles
siiaeléa,vtuclents immediately be brought before a magistrate.” part of the
tried to walk a system enforc-
white line just as ing North

North Carolina police require motorists to do
successfully in order to avoid taking the
Breathalyzer test. In North Carolina, a motorist
who decides against taking a Breathalyzer test will
be automatically arrested for DWI.

Also next to the bus were students offering
“mocktails,” traditionally alcoholic mixed drinks
without the alcohol, for bypassers to taste.

The BAT Mobile which visited Davidson
was a mid-sized coach bus, and the unit’s coordi-
nator said that it “has made nearly 1,000 arrests for
DWI and close to 300 arrests of motorists under
the influence of cocaine over the past calendar

Carolina’s laws against drunk driving. “The State
of North Carolina has some of the toughest DWI
laws,” said one of the BAT Mobile’s staff. The
legal blood alcohol level for driving is anything
under .08%. “A motorist with a blood alcohol
level of .08% or higher will be arrested-and then
immediately be brought before a magistrate.” North
Carolina magistrates then either send drivers ar-
rested for DWI directly to jail, let them go on bail,
or order the arrested persons to appear before the
court at a later date.

The presence of the BAT Mobile was part of
the College’s Alcohol Awareness Week, which

From the

February 1998

The campus was just beginning to consider the
possibilities for a fourth eating house. PAX was
expected to be the location of the fourth house.
PAX however, has continued to be a residence
hall, and a new house, Turner, was built. This past
Friday, February 19, 1999, the girls celebrated
their first Big Sister-Little Sister night.

February 1989
The White-Smith Scholarship was established for
study and internships abroad for Davidson stu-

Archives

dents. The scholarship honors Anthony White,
class of 1847, and Samuel W. Smith, class of 1929.

February 1974

The final exams for the second trimester were
starting, while students made plans for spring
break. The BSC president Leonard Thompson
announced that the BSC would work more closely
with the Union. Several members of the BSC were
on the Union Board, and Union committees were
working with the BSC to plan a spring gala week-
end.

Campus Police Blotter

ComPiLeD BY CARRIE ARTHUR AND ASHLEY KING
News Editors

On February 16, 1999, a Davidson College
Presbyterian Church employee reported that boxes
containing handmade products from Third World
countries were missing from a locked mechanical
room in the church basement. The Church in-
tended to resell the keyrings, earrings, necklaces,
baskets, and painted ornaments. An employee had
valued the items at $1168.15 on January 19 during
inventory. Because the room where the boxes

were kept was locked and no forced entry was
visible, the Campus Police believe that someone
having a key committed the larceny.

On February 18, 1999 at 4:16 PM, a student
living in Irwin dormitory reported that a black
female was selling: magazines on the first floor.
An officer responded to the call and found the
suspect still in Irwin. The suspect was an em-
ployee of American Community Services from
Indiana. The officer issued her a trespass warrant
and then escorted her off campus.

i

the effects o

highlighted alcohol abuse at Davidson as well as
raised awareness of the problem. According to
Davidson Health Educator Georgia Ringle, “This
year, alcohol related problems brought to the at-
tention of the College are down when compared to
those of the previous academic year.” She then
discussed the common misconception that binge
drinking is prevalent on Patterson Court: “The
perception that binge drinking is the popular thing
to do may be attributed to the fact that often the

ol levels on one’s vision.

Anna Judy

very heavy drinkers, the students who are the
binge drinkers, are also gregarious people and
well known. Therefore, binge drinking may ap-
pear to some as a practice that envelops all of
Patterson Court each Saturday night.”

Ringle supported her comments with a report
entitled “Use vs. Perceptions of Use.”. The report,
for which the fieldwork was done in 1997, com-
pares Davidson to other small liberal arts colleges.

See BAT Mobile on page 4

Che Dabtdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
Business Manager
News Editors SCOTT REEDER Op-Ed Editors °
CARRIE ARTHUR SETH ALLEY
ASHLEY E. KING Circulation Manager MELISSA ANN
EUGENIA LEATH deCASTRIQUE
Sports Editors
ALISON KALETT Advertising Managers Arts & Living Editors
MIKE ANDERSON PETER CLARK SETH DAVIS
DAVID JOHNSTON KELLS HETHERINGTON
Sports Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON ' :
CADER HOWARD Head Copy Editors Photo Editor
WHITNEY BLAKE ANNA JUDY
: PETER MARTIN
Web Editor ALLISON SISK * ; Cartoonist
STEPHEN GAMBOA NATHANIEL LOTZE
Ad Designers
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“Apartment Building F’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also view. The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/

|

the views ofthe Ear Board

The Davidsonian is published Tudndaye during the atone year by the students of
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-
mail Davidsonian@ davidson. edu. Our offices are located on the third floor of the Union.

letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily

I ws of the] of The Bavidsonian. puberipaons cost $40. 00
Bet year, Adverts usa are cereale wo request. —

Copii is held by the Trustees ne Davidson Coleg. :

