M

~

ig

= oe i Oe
| O N TD. A

- 4

Wildcat women cruise to three straight victories

By Burcin HARDIN
Staff Writer

A strong defense and solid second-half effort
by junior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan was the key
to the Lady Wildcats’ 2-1 victory over Oregon
University last Tuesday afternoon at Davidson.

Corrigan recorded six saves to help propel
the Lady Wildcats soccer squad to their second
win of the season.

Corrigan ‘and the Wildcats’ defense were
especially busy in the second half as Oregon, who
was in the state for the Wake Forest/Nike Invita-
tional tournament, took seven of its 11 shots on
goal in the last 45 minutes of play.

“Give Oregon credit for coming out and

: Jake Harrington
@ Senior mid-fielder Kelly
Rennick has started in 64 games
as a Wildcat.

playing hard in the second half,” said Head Coach

‘Kevin Hundley, whose Lady Wildcats began the

second half leading Oregon 2-0.

It was the Wildcat offense that excelled in the
first half. Davidson took seven shots on goal in the
first 45 minutes and connected on two of them, the
only Davidson scores of the afternoon.

Senior forward Ginny Dye landed the first
goal 22 minutes into the game off Tara Maloney’s
blocked shot.

Tara’s sister, Heather Maloney, later stepped
up in the closing minutes of the half to net the
Wildcats’ second goal of the afternoon, one that
would later prove to be the game winner.

With their starters rested, Oregon came out
swinging to start the second half, attacking the
Wildcat defense and wasting no time in moving
the ball deep into Wildcat territory.

At the 32:30 mark, Oregon midfielder Kristi
Morris scored the Ducks’ first and only goal of the
game with an assist from forward Erin Anderson.

Oregon continued to pound the ball into Wild-
cat territory the rest of the half, but Corrigan and
the rest of the defense proved to be too much for
the Ducks to surmount.

“We needed Winnie and the backs to con- :

tinue playing well in'the second because Oregon
came out strong, getting within a goal with more
than 30 minutes to play,” Hundley commented.

The Wildcats were back in action Saturday
night in Asheville, defeating the UNC-Asheville
Bulldogs 2-0 with two second-half goals while
improving their overall record to 3-2.

Mary Ellen Schaefer broke the tie at the 76: 10
mark from five yards out off a pass from Dye. Tara
Maloney followed up three minutes later with a
goal that advanced the Wildcat lead to 2-0.

four games as a Wildcat.

Davidson took 15 shots on the goal while
UNC-A only attempted thrée the entire afternoon.
Chesley Garrett, Davidson’s senior goalkeeper
from Atlanta, GA, recorded two saves for the day.

The UNC-A game was only the first stop for
the Cats on a two game road trip. Next, the team

@ Freshman Tara Maloney has two assists in her first

Jake Harrington

travels to Columbia, SC, to face the University of
South Carolina Gamecocks in a 7 p.m. contest
Sept. 15.

Thanks to the UNC-Asheville Sports Information

Office, which contributed to this article.
y >

Field hockey knocks off Appalachian State, off to 4-0 start

@ Head coach Jen Halliday rallies her troops before a

recent home match.

LEA JAEGER

The junior back scored
two goals and added
an assist in the Wild-
cats’ field hockey vic-
tory over Radford on

September9.

Mike Anderson

By SHELLEY Conroy
Staff Writer

Not even a month into their season, the
Davidson field hockey is opening eyes throughout
the Deep South. The ’Cats have stormed onto the
scene, going undefeated in the first three weeks of
competition.

This past Tuesday, the team defeated visiting
opponent St. Louis University by a shut-out score
of 4-0. Freshman Alex Rogers got the ball rolling
with her first goal in a Wildcat uniform only 2
mifiutes into the game. Senior Kim Cici notched
the assist.

Twenty minutes later, junior Jennie Gold
(assisted by Lisa Holthaus) added another goal,
giving Davidson a 2-0 lead at the half.

’ Ten minutes into the second half, junior Lea
Jaeger scored her first goal of the season. With just
over seven minutes to play, senior co-captain Ceci
scored the afternoon’s final goal, assisted by se-
nior co-captains Kate Schoening and Holthaus.

Coach Jen Halliday commented, “Having
four different players score really shows our depth
this season. The confidence we’ ve gained the first
two games will hopefully carry us this year.”

“The team is really excited about our firsttwo

VOLLEYBALL

The Wildcats host Chattanooga on
Friday night in an early-season
showdown between the Southern
Conference’s top teams.

FRIDAY, 7:00 PM
BELK ARENA

wins,” added Ceci. ‘“‘We hope this momentum will
keep us going throughout the season.”

Her optimism proved well-merited. On Thurs-
day, the ’Cats. traveled to Radford, one of the top
contenders for the Deep South championship at
the end of their season.

The ’Cats knocked off Radford by a score of
3-1, giving Davidson their third victory of the
season and moving the Highlanders to 1-5.
Jaegar once again contributed to the Wildcats’
victory, scoring two of the team’s three goals and
assisting Ceci on the other.

“Radford is a pretty physical team, and we’ ve
had a tendency to play down to their level in the
past. This time, we really worked well together
and played our own game.”

Halliday credits her team’s early-season suc-
cess to a combination of a positive working chem-
istry and depth at each position on the field.

The ’Cats hosted Appalachian State yester-
day afternoon, looking to maintain their unblem-
ished record and extend their win streak to four.

WEEKEND UPDATE
Davidson cruised past defending
Deep South champion, Appalachian

State University, yesterday afiemoon.

Alison Kalett

Todaviaestamos
esperandoporel
articulode
beisbol.

MuchoAmor.
—DSS

a
