_THE DAVIDSONIAN

__ TUESDAY, JANUARY 26, 1999

Fraternity rivalries gone awry

Corral in October of 1881 with the Earp
brothers.

Then Kennedy stared eyeball to eyeball with
the entire Russian military in 1962 in the Cuban
Missile Crisis.

Most recently there was the standoff between
Kappa Alpha and Phi Delta Theta on Self Selec-
tion Night, January 15, 1999.

It was one of the most eventful twenty min-
utes in the history of DC.

About one hour before the first bare bottoms

S o first there was the Shootout at the O.K.

streaked through Warner Hall, and two hours —

before those same bare bottoms were covered and
moving on the dance floor, freshmen pledges from
rivaling fraternities KA and Phi Delt stared each
other down on opposite ends of the F apartment
building. Some said the chanting was so loud that
they heard it walking into the Belk dormitory.
Wyatt Earp would have been proud. Officer Stan
Moore (Hightower) even pulled up to the scene to
prevent any unnecessary violence. It pitted the
stereotypical Phi Delts against the stereotypical
KA’s.Witnesses said the Phi Delt pledges started
the ruckus, aligning themselves in a row on the
south side of F Apartment’s third floor. They
chanted in slow, inebriate harmony, “K-A Sucks!
K-A Sucks! K-A Sucks! K-A Sucks! K-A Sucks!”

They laughed and smiled at their clever three beat
insult.

The Kappa Alpha members, stunned by this attack
on their brotherhood, took a moment to register the
offense that had been
thrown upon them.
Suddenly, though,
they realigned, as an
unnamed and lone
voice chanted from the
KA side, “Phi Delt
Sucks! Yeah!” Oth-
ers chimed in, slowly
bringing themselves to
harmony, “Phi Delt Sucks! Phi Delt Sucks! Phi
Delt Sucks!” Each of the KA members turned to
their right and gave the person in front of them a
slap on the back, for their quick-witted retort.
They smiled, tucked ip their flannel shirts, and
waited for Phi Delt’s response.

Tension was mounting, and the Phi Delts
were now seriously worried about their house
pride. They needed to preserve their dignity.
After a few moments of brainstorming, the Phi
pledges came up with an exciting retort. “We’re
not K-A! We’re not K-A! We’re not K-A!”
Shocked and thrown a curveball by the use of the

Davio RoseENBERG

a Sophomore Perspecti

reverse negative, the Kappa Alpha pledges needed
to think quickly of a response. They finally
constructed a clever insult that topped all of Phi
Delt’s. They chanted, “Meatheads! Meatheads!
Meatheads!” And with
their final chant, they
turned around in syn-
chronous fashion and
dropped their pants.

It appeared that the
KA’s had gotten the best
of the Phi Delts. The Phi
Delts took it in good hu-
mor though, adjusted
their neck muscles and watched the KA’s run. It
was all in good taste and both parties laughed
about it the next day. The event exhibited good old

fashioned fraternity rivalry and nothing more came

of it.

While some fraternity humor can be fun and
games, other types are less unduly favorable. De-
structive pranks and altercations between fraterni-
ties have become quite common in the last month
with the induction of new freshmen. Ignoring
physical confrontations, just this week, Phi Delt
found their stolen framed composite picture in the
Sig Ep fraternity, whose brothers claimed KA had
taken it and placed it there. Wednesday afternoon,

SAE reported that their symbolic lion had been
stolen, and falsely accused KA of having taken it.
Several SAE brothers snuck into the KA house and
wrote everywhere the SAE letters in honey. SAE
also stole the eight ball from their pool table and
broke the house telephone. While all of this
occurred, they let escape an injured and aban-
doned hunting dog that KA had housed for the
night.

The whereabouts of the SAE lion are still
unknown. Some believe that in hiding the lion, the
bandits placed it somewhere where no one would
ever go.

Like a Phi Delt study session.
A Sig Ep weightlifting contest.
Or a KA fraternity party.

Rivalries can be fun and humorous. Good frater-
nity rivalry is just that. And poking fun is a
favorite past-time of many. But when those rival-
ries turn to physical destruction or taking of
another’s property, it stops being fun anymore.
Some pranks can be clever, others can easily be

stood prank is only a step away from an unneces-
sary argument, and an unnecesary altercation.

What is the Stapleton/Davidson Internship?

hat do you think of when you see the
words inner city ? Immediate conno-
tations suggest images of poverty,

homelessness, drugs and broken families. Char-
lotte, though only twenty short miles from the
proverbial Davidson bubble, has its share of urban
problems. In the midst of all this mayhem lies an
opportunity for you.

Through the generous gift of one Davidson
College trustee, four students can experience what

interact in
the intersec-
tion of faith

the elderly
and also ad-

ministrative
and service social work.
to others. Another
Last sum- ; component
mer, four in- to the intern-
terns (Debbi ship is direct
Berry, involvement
Amanda in the life of

a city’s urban: outreach network. It is a rare
opportunity to be able to spend your summer doing
such meaningful work and receive this kind of
monetary compensation.

If you are interested, applicants should sub-
mit the following by February 5: (1) a resume, (2)
two to three pages on which you state why you
wish to be considered for this internship and what
you hope to accomplish if selected, and (3) a list of
work-related abilities. Direct questions to Rob

it truly means to “make a difference”. The
Stapleton/Davidson Internship allows students to

Covington, Anna Judy and Grace Robinson) held
positions with seven service agencies. Jobs in-
cluded hands on work with children, youth, and

Charlotte area churches. Each intern receives a
$3000 stipend. If you want to put your compassion
inaction, you will gain insight into the workings of

Spach at x2420.

