2 ALEN DA.

| Bie ie, Caen Oe = NE

“The South’s Foremost

College Weekly” The Missing ““Mc’s”

bd Additional freshman facebook pictures

EstaBLisHeD 1914 NEWS 2

Bitterness...
And other advice!

OPINIONS 7

Freud-inspired relationship advice

A&L il

INSIDE THIS WEEK

We’re nationally ranked?!?
Believe it.

SPORTS 13

IdnEGO

Johnston Gym transformation steadily progresses

By Drew Devore

The new center will also include a brand new
College Union. The union will house. offices for

Staff Writer

into the
new

Most students have known for some time that
plans were in the works for turning Johnston Gym

all of the major college organizations, and storage
and workspace for those that don’t have offices.
According to Brown, these offices won’t be any
larger than the ones at the current union, but they
will be “easy to find and very
accessible.” Also included in the

College
Union:
The first
physical

The target date for completing the
construction is January 2001.

Union will be anew 900 Room, a
fitness center, a new Bookstore,
and space for Davidson Outdoors,
including an indoor climbing wall.

sign of
t hoe

The formal ground-breaking cer-
emony for the new Center is slated
for October 7, pending the Trust-
ees’ approval.

The new Performing - Arts
Center will seat around 600 people
divided up between two balconies
and the floor. “It will be a won-
derful theater,” College Union Di-

~ rector William Brown stated. “It
will be a very intimate place to see

project that most students have seen, however, are
the backhoes that arrived in August to begin tear-
ing down the old swimming pool and Public Safety
offices. The pool is being démolished to make
way for a new state-of-the-art theater that will be
one of the centerpieces of the new Campus Center.

It will also include student and

. faculty mailboxes, and a copy
center. The centerpiece of the Union will be the
new Union Café, which will be housed in the
center of the building, with tables and seating in an
open atrium.

The target date for completing the construc-
tion is January 2001. Demolition of the old pool,
‘ which has
been used
for’ student

Also included in the Union will be a

storage
new 900 Room, a fitness center,a 3" the
new bookstore, and space for sports
Davidson Outdoors, including an__Complex
indoor climbing wall. opened, was
approved by
the trustees
at their

@ As the old swimming pool was torn away, the old Wesley H. Goldsberry
white record boards saw the light of day for the first time.

} put on larger and better performances then can be

a performance.” According to

Brown, the new theater will make it mucheasierto spring meeting, and began in August. “When it is
done,” said Brown “it will impact the whole com-
munity. People will use this new space who
wouldn’t think of using the Union now. They'll
use it not because they have to, but because they

want to.”

done currently in Love auditorium. “There are
many logistical and performance problems to us-
ing Love Auditorium. The new theater will elimi-
nate these,”’ he added. :

Davidson grad ‘Monitors’ dive

becoming reality.

The Monitor was the first iron battleship,
dating back to January 30,1862 and measuring
172 feet in length with a 42-foot beam. It was
made famous in its battle with The Merrimac
(renamed the Virginia) during the Civil War. This
was the first battle between. ironclad warships.

By LAuREN DANIEL
Staff Writer

Two hundred and forty feet under, with four
‘tanks of air and other gear weighing 200 pounds,
crews of scuba divers investigate the remains of
the Union battleship, The Monitor. This is where
"92 Davidson grad, Michael Ott, finds his dreams

Please see ‘Monitor’ on page 3 for continuation

1 ® Lawrence Cann dons a

well-deserved crown after
this week’s amazing win.

Article on page 16.

ives generous donation

VAC rece

Adam Soto

@ The Visual Arts Center proudly displays its new Kenneth
Noland piece. Article on page 10.

LETTERS

EDITORIALS........

OPINIONS. .......5.5..
ARTS & LIVING ..
SPORTS ne

INDEX

First Class Mail

6 U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

jf
4

DEADLINES & AD RATES

format.

Anna Judy

Allsection articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles
received after this deadline will not be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s) or dropped
off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks can be used if file is saved in an RTF

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supercede the Friday deadline.

