M

Se 7 Se
O N ID A

» 4G

Volleyball squad showcases depth of talent in weekend’s action

By Brapb STEVINSON
Staff Writer

At the beginning of the season, Coach Lisa
Marston had a suspicion that the 99 Wildcat
squad might be one of the deepest teams Davidson
has seen in recent years,

On Friday night and Saturday afternoon, she
put this depth to the test, playing all fourteen
Wildcats in contests against College of Charleston
and the Citadel.

Marston’s Wildcats, from top to bottom,
passed with flying colors.

After being swept by N.C. State on Tuesday,
the ‘Cats were looking to rebound against South-
ern Conference opponent College of Charleston
on Friday night: They did just that, sweeping the
Cougars 15-5, 15-11, and 15-11 inamere seventy-
five minutes. More impressively, every Wildcat
saw action in the match.

“Being able to work more people into the
match will help us later on this season,” assistant
coach Kelly McCaffrey said. “We have great
depth at the right side and setting positions, which
we will hopefully.be able to continue to utilize.”
Sophomore Erica Schwartz, as she would do all
weekend, paced the offense Friday night, record-
ing 17 assists and 11 digs, highs in both depart-
ments on the team.

Freshman Rebecca Teichgraeber and sopho-
more Jennifer Ortega led the team with seven
kills each. Junior Mara Mordini entered the
game with 899 career digs and eclipsed the 900
plateau with one of her eight digs in the game.

On Saturday afternoon, the ‘Cats manhandled
a struggling Citadel squad, sweeping them 15-8,
15-2, 15-5. The contest gave Coach Marston yet
another opportunity to showcase Davidson’s im-
pressive depth. Freshmen Kaitlyn Martin,
Roberta Quis, and Rebecca Teichgraeber logged
extensive minutes, and each recorded five kills.
Sophomore right-side hitter Jacqueline Ortega

@ Katherine Lorenz has ™& 474erson
been a key contributor to the
‘Cats defensive success in 1999.

© Ginny Quis (#1 0) Mike Anderson
tallied her 900th career dig this
weekend.

also played solidly. Schwartz, once again,
quaterbacked the offense, earning an impressive
27 assists.

The wins kept Davidson undefeated in con-
ference play (4-0) and improved its overall record
to 11-2.

“Tt was really good to see that we are in fact
fifteen members solidly deep,” said Mordini. “In
both games, we used experimental line-ups, play-
ing with people we hadn’t necessarily played
together with in practice. We came across some
bumps, but the team overcame them.”

The bumps were few and far between in the
Citadel match, as the ‘Cats crushed any fleeting
glance of a Citadel offensive with overwhelming
force. Davidson tempered power with consis-
tency, throwing the Bulldogs’ offense into disar-
ray and tearing the defense into shreds. In the third
game, the Citadel fought its way to a 4-2 lead
before the Wildcat offense took over, outscoring
the Bulldogs 13-1 to win the game and the match.
The streak was marked by the impressive serving
of freshmen Martin and Quis. Alison Board had
the game winner, killing off a Citadel block.

“It was just really positive and encouraging
to see that we can use the entire bench and still get
things done,” said Jacqueline Ortega.

Mordini echoed the sentiment. “It was a
good weekend for the entire team. We bounced
back from mistakes with big hits, big serves, and
big kills. We carried ourselves well in pressure
situations.”

Davidson begins a five-game roadtrip on
Tuesday against Wofford. If this weekend was a
test of the ‘Cats’ depth, the month of October will
test the squad’s grit and determination, as Davidson
has only two home games.

“This month will be a true test to see what our
team is made of,” said Jacqueline Ortega. “So far
it has been easy playing the big games at home, in
front of our crowd, but now we have to get geared
up to play well in the big games on the road.”

Women’s soccer continues to dominate Southern Conference

By BurGin HarpIN
Sports Editor

Patience is a virtue.

Slow and steady wins the race.

Such are the catch phrases often preached by
well-intended parents, teachers, and coaches to
encourage their charges to be more diligent, assur-
ing them they will achieve success invariably if
they are dedicated and committed.

Somebody has taught the Lady Wildcat soc-
cer team well.

After only mustering 11 victories over the
last two seasons, the Lady Wildcats have notched
6 consecutive wins. And they’ve done it only 8
games into the 1999 campaign.

The latest in this string of “W’s” came before

a home crowd last Thursday night with a 3-0 -

defeat of Elon College. The Wildcats commanded
the second half, scoring all 3 goals in the latter 45

minutes.

“T told them at half time, ‘We have 45 min-
utes and we can win in 45 minutes. We have to
have the patience and play well,’” said Head
Coach Kevin Hundley following the game.

And patience they had. After a scoreless first
half, it wasn’t even until halfway through the
second half that Davidson got on the board when
freshman Penn Graves punched it in at the 61:17
mark. But from that point on, the ‘Cats were
unstoppable, knocking home two more goals over
a thirteen minute span.

“We opened the game up in the second half,”
said Hundley. “Everybody relaxed once we got
the [first] goal and played with a lot less nervous-
ness.”

Two minutes after Graves’ score, freshman
forward Tara Maloney added a goal after recover-
ing a loose ball that has slipped out of the goalie’s

hands. After a shot ricocheted off the armofElon confidence is there for us to keep going.”

goalkeeper Sommer Cork and dribbled past her,
Maloney quickly pounced on it and tapped an easy
score into the unattended Elon goal. Tara’s sister,
Heather, and freshman Mary Ellen Schaefer were
credited with assists on the play.

Schaefer came up even bigger at the 74:50
mark with a tremendous header off a corner kick
by Heather Maloney that upped the score to 3-0.
“We worked on corners in practice,” noted a
beaming Coach Hundley.

Thus the score remained as the final buzzer
sounded, by which time the Wildcats had made 15
shots on goal, 10 of which came in the second half.
Senior goalkeeper Chesley Garrett recorded two
saves en route to her second shutout of the year.

Now at the midpoint in their 1999 campaign,
the ’Cats have only given up one goal in the last 6
games, and Coach Hundley is optimistic about the
future. ‘“We’re on a roll,” he said. “And the

Football

Guilford College
2PM
Richardson Stadium

Quote of the Week

Referring to the complexity of the Smith
Field / Irwin Belk Track / Richardson

“It’s like every ten yards
down there is named
after somebody else.”

~ Stadium...

Pea

Hundley also spoke highly of the team’s freshman
class, which has accounted for 8 of the team’s 13
goals this season, and praised the leadership of the
senior Lady Wildcats.

As they head into the last five weeks of
regular season action, the Wildcats (6-2, 2-0) still
try to take it one game at a time, but Hundley
admits to being anxious about the upcoming con-
ference matches. Among those schools on the
Wildcats schedule during October are conference
foes Furman, East Tennessee State, College of
Charleston, Western Carolina, and defending con-
ference champion UNC Greensboro.

They will return home to host Georgia South-
ern Sept. 29 in a pivotal Southern Conference
doubleheader with the men’s team, which will
face the College of Charleston. Also of note, the
games have been moved from Richardson Sta-
dium to the practice soccer fields, andthe women’s’
game is now slated to begin at 4 P. m.

