THE DAVIDSONIAN

Admissions office finalizes ’03 selections:

Females outnumber incoming males

By Kets HETHERINGTON
Arts and Living Editor

A total of 840 students have been invited to
join the Class of 2003, a third of whom were
accepted under one of the two early decision
programs, both of which are binding. The Admis-
sions Committee met late into the night most of
last week to ensure that decision letters would go
out on time in the regular decision program.

sents one of the biggest changes in Davidson’s
history. For the first time ever, Davidson has
offered admission to more women than men; the
numbers of women and men, however, do remain
close. Moreover, the decrease in male applicants,

‘ coupled with a rise in female applicants, is repre-

sentative of a similar trend nationwide in applica-
tions to small, highly selective liberal arts colleges
such as Davidson, Haverford, Bowdoin, Will-
iams, and Swarthmore. More recently, males have
tended to apply to larger universities. The reason

The forthe shift
series of in prefer-
long meet- . ence is not
ings ofthe Moreover, the decrease in male applicants, coupled yet fully
Admis- witha rise in female applicants, is representative of “"°°."-
sion Com- Ae ° . ° ° ‘ stood.
vtec iq @ Sumilar trend nationwide in applications to small, ~ ; . , -
the final highly selective liberalarts colleges suchas Davidson, s 0 n ¢ 4
hours of Haverford, Bowdoin, Williams, and Swarthmore. — ™<™bers
Decision . of the Ad-
Davidson missions
‘99 is rep- con

resentative of the increase in well-qualified appli-
cants. According to Dr. Nancy Cable, Dean of
Admissions, while the total number of applicants
dropped off slightly, one must look at more than
just the total number of applicants when determin-
ing whether or not a year has been successful. One
main factor that goes into determining the success
of admissions is the percentage of the applicant
pool that is comprised of so-called “qualified”
applicants, where a qualified applicant refers to a
candidate that meets the College’s standards and
could have been proudly accepted. The ratio of
candidates who were of “Davidson stock,” or
those who met the College’s lofty academic stan-
dards, was high — perhaps the highest in David-
son history.

The admission of the Class of 2003 repre-

ing national notoriety has also done much to aid
Davidson in attracting first-rate students. This
may be because families who come to North
Carolina to visit Duke and Wake Forest will often
visit Davidson as well. Evidence for such thinking
lies in the fact that Davidson shares more appli-
cants with Duke than any other institution in 1998
admissions, and the same should hold true for
1999. Three years ago, however, Wake Forest,
located in Winston-Salem, led the pack in cross-
over applications for Davidson. Other first-tier
institutions with whom Davidson has experienced
overlap in applicants for the past couple of years,
great enough to attract the attention of Admis-
sions, included UNC-Chapel Hill, the University
of Virginia, Vanderbilt, Emory, and Princeton.

One of the biggest questions on current stu-
dents’ minds is where Davidson will be ranked in
the U.S. News & World Report issue ranking
colleges and universities. Cable said she could not
speculate upon whether or not Davidson’s ranking
will improve.

Straight Talk

Continued from page 3

Along with his serious agenda for the evening,
Mr. Warren displayed an appreciation for humor.
“For the past couple decades, Charlotte has been
trying to bill itself as the ‘Queen City of the
South,’” Warren joked, “I’m just trying to do my
part.” Speaking of his assignment in the vicinity
of Bryson City, Warren said, “The fundamental-
ists are right; they always said I would go to Hell,
and now the court system has sent me there.” .

Throughout the talk, whether addressing a
lighter topic or a more serious one, Mr. Warren.
retained focus upon the fact that homosexuals are
not different from heterosexuals in any way that
should be pertinent to public life. “The sameness
of being human,” he summarized, “is much more
important than the difference of being gay.” He

' feels that the true agenda of the gay community is

to dispel the illusions that make homosexuals
seem inherently different from the rest of the
population. “My goal,” concluded Warren, “‘is
that someday a judge will stand up and announce
‘I’m gay’ and the press will say “Big deal.’”

mittee such as Cable, who has just com- ¢
pleted her seventh year as the Dean of
Admission and Financial Aid, feel that this
is indeed the trend, although.the trend has
not been documented. Leonard Satterwhite,
Assistant Dean of Admission and Financial
Aid, whose region is New England, said
that there is a noticeable rise in the number
of students from first-tier New England
boarding schools applying to Davidson.
Some Connecticut preparatory schools have
had as many as thirteen applicants apply
this year.

Many attribute Davidson’s increasing ~
consistency in attracting large numbers of
highly qualified applicants to Duke
University’s tremendous success over the
last several years. Wake Forest’s increas-

@ Stowe Beam 99 and Evan Kroppenbach repair “
bike during Davidson Outdoors Get Outdoors Week.

Anna Judy

C alifornia

offering this week...

ALL SMOOTHMIES
$3.00!

(Valid all week, Wed. MARCH 31 thru Tues. APRIL 6)
(Just present your student ID BEFORE ordering.)

smoothies ¢ fresh juices * bakery goods

california juice co... it's a way of life!

(Exit 28, Hwy 73, in front of BiLo. 895-7696)

ie THANK YOU!

We would like to thank all of our LOYAL REGULARS
and invite any of you that have not tried us yet by

od,

ay

Why do women enter the pornography industry?

Continued from page 1

“Why do you think women end up in the industry
of pornography?” was a question Dynes posed to
the audience.. She suggested that women don’t
choose to enter this profession but do so out of
necessity when they have no other options for
income. “I guarantee if you had the choice be-
tween becoming a law-

“Hustler.” “This sort of pornography takes vio-
lence against women and sexualizes it, so the
violence is disguised,” Dynes said. Images of

abortion pornography and violence against women ..

of color were shown, as well as images based on
sexual slavery. She also linked the images. of
women with milk mustaches in the “Got Milk”
campaign to a standard image in pornography.
In addi-

yer, doctor, psycholo-
gist, or porn star, you
wouldn’t choose a ca-
reer in pornography.”
Although Dynes

Women are dehumanized and reduced
to male masturbation facilitators.

tion to adult por-
nography, Dynes
showed — some
child pornography
slides. She said,

presented only what she

calls “mainstream porn :
market” images, rather than the XXX market, her
slides still made some audience members uncom-
fortable and captured the entire audience’s atten-
tion. Some slides depicted bondage and torture
pornography, especially those from Larry Flynt’s
popular semi-hardcore pornographic magazine,

“Just about every
pornographic magazine and video depicts women
looking like children or pre-pubescent girls. What
are the implications for the next generation of men
that are getting stimulation from this?” Dynes also
added that child pornography has become a “mas-
sive, multi-million dollar industry.’ Psychology
has shown us that the worst thing you can do toa

child is rape them.”

She referred to the damaging psychological
effects of pornography on women in general. “A
study found that women in pornography and pros-
titution suffered more post traumatic stress disor-
der cases than Vietnam War vets. Sixty-eight
percent of those women said they had been raped
in the past year,
and 92% said

and change it.”
The debate was scheduled to last from about 7:30
to 9:00 PM only, but Dynes kept the audience
engaged past 10:00. A question and answer
session and a reception then followed Dynes’
presentation.
Ann Culp ’00, Women’s Issues Committee
Chair, re-
flected on the

they would get
out of the indus-

A study found that women in pornography and

evening, say-
ing, “She was

mae if they prostitution suffered more posttraumatic stress °*'*©™mely
could. . engaging.

Dynessaid_ 4isorder cases than Vietnam War vets. iad
men must play Nadine

an active role in

combating these images that make women appear
vulnerable. She concluded her discussion by
encouraging the audience: “We must have a vi-
sion and believe in it: a world without rape, bat-
tery, and poverty. You must always have a vision.
Once you know of inequality, you have to go out

Strossen had
to cancel, we were really disappointed, because
we had wanted to present the full spectrum of
feminism. Dynes’.examples were so thorough
though . . . and she managed not to put men on the
defensive.”
