“Gre tes te pe Piet eg ek

THE DAVIDSONIAN

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

Students

By Patrick BAETIER

Staff Writer

On August 30, the Union lawn was the site of °

the first meeting of the Students for a Free Tibet
(STF). Encircled by the soft light of candles, the
meeting provided students with a chance to dis-
cover the meaning and purpose of the group. SFT
endeavors to highlight the traditions and history of
the Lamaist Buddhists, which are in danger of
being erased by the occupational forces of China.
Occupied since 1950 by the communist govern-
ment, Tibet struggles to maintain its identity and to
assert its independence from China.

Founded one year ago, the Davidson chapter
of Students for a Free Tibet is the result of Aditi
Sethi ’02 and Jeremy Campbell °02. Sethi first
encountered the organization on a visit to
Dartmouth University last year. The group was

first started at Oberln College in Ohio. The orga-
nization has spread to about four hundred chapters
in thirty countries worldwide, Impressed with the
mission and goals of the organization, she sug-
gested the founding of the Davidson equivalent.
Inits first year, SFT showed two movies, “Kundun”

. and “Seven Years in Tibet” to illustrate and bring

alive the culture and struggles of the Tibetan
nation. The organization also spread literature and
kept the community informed on Tibetan issues in
world news.

This year, Ramya Parthasarathy ’02, Rocky
Charton, ’03, and Andy Raynor ’02 join Campbell
and Sethi. These members will serve as secretary,
treasurer, and publicity chair. The organization’ s
scope has increased dramatically. In addition to
showings of the movies and dissemination of news
and history, the group is organizing a Fundraising
Committee and Special Events Committee to over-

see two large projects this year.

Their first goal, in cooperation with Amnesty
International and Dean Rusk, is to bring Palden
Gyatso to campus during the first semester. Gyatso,
62, is a Buddhist monk and former prisoner of the
Chinese in Tibet. He spent twenty-four years in
labor camps exposed to various tortures solely
because he resisted Chinese occupation of his
homeland. His goal is to expose Chinese cruelty
and the injustice of the occupation.

The second goal of the group is to bring a
group of Mandala sand painting monks to campus
in March. Through sand paintings, dances, and
music, the monks display an ‘empowerment’. The
organization hopes that these “empowerments’, or
rituals, will help to create an appreciation for Tibet
in the Davidson community. In addition to these
events, SFT hopes to hold several dinners that
would serve the food common in Tibet. SFT also

for a Free Tibet on campus

encourages students to find out about the trip to
Nepal and India that Dr. Mahoney intends to lead
next fall.

Campbell stresses that “the organization is
not aimed at the pop-culture. We want to issue
facts.” Campbell refers to the Tibetan Freedom
Concert as an example. The concert, created by
Adam Yauch of the “Beastie Boys,” is a positive
force, but one which Campbell feels the message
is sometimes lost. Sethi and Campbell adamantly
refuse to be associated with some of the anti-
Communist elements of some groups.

The Davidson chapter only pays its dues as a
chapter and does not send funds to any kind of
groups suspected of armed involvement of any
kind. Campbell and Sethi hope that Students for a
Free Tibet will be successful in bringing the cul-
ture and history as well as the struggles of Tibet to
the foreground.

Homecoming festivities begin at Davidson

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Davidson College is preparing to celebrate
Homecoming weekend next week, on October 2

and 3. Tony Snow °77 returns to Davidson to

speak about his experiences as a journalist and’

presidential speechwriter in Washington. His pre-
sentation is scheduled in part by the Avant Garde
Society, and will be held in Love Auditorium at
10am on Saturday, October 3.

From 10am-4pm on Saturday, there will be a

vintage MG car show at the Lake Campus. This is
the car show’s-eleventh year at Davidson, and
about 130 MG owners are expected to bring their
cars. The show draws participants from all over
the Southeast. The Davidson Lion’s Club will
sponsor a refreshment table, and students will be
admitted free with a Davidson ID.

Also on Saturday, the Alumni Association is
sponsoring the first Homecoming Festival at David-
son College. Eileen Keeley, Director of Alumni
Relations, says that it is being held in an effort to
“appeal to the Davidson community: the college's
alumni, students, faculty and staff as well as the

people of the town.” The Festival will be held in
Dogwood Dell behind Martin Chemistry Build-

“ing, and will feature food, a magic show, a blue-

grass band, hair-braiding and face painting. The
public is welcome and all attractions are available
for free or a minimal price.

After the festival, Davidson will face Guilford
College in the Homecoming football game at 2:00.
During halftime, the Homecoming King and Queen
will be announced. Nominated seniors are Sarah
Davis and Scott Herr (Sigma Pi Epsilon), Marnie
Padgett and Bo Bickerstaff (Kappa Alpha), Katie

Keller and Bill Stoops (Phi Delta); Alex Balbirand .

Travis Barton (Kappa Sigma), Erin Kane and Jake
Stramek (Phi Gamma Delta), Suzanne Tranguch
and Matt Jung (Pi Kappa Alpha), Griffin Rankin
and Tommy Knowles (Warner Hall), Mary Shell
Brosche and Andrew Griswold (Turner), Liz Holt
and Mauricio Sauma (Conner), Julie Summersgill
and Jaime McDonald (Rusk), Bridget Green and
Benin Ford (BSC), Maggie Avery and Carl Sukenik

» (independent) and Azhenya Arutyunan and

Prashant Kaishap (International Student Coali-
tion). Students will vote for King and Queen on
Tuesday and Wednesday September 28 and 29.

First annual FIJI food drive

By Davip YANCEY
Guest Writer

Thanksgiving is one of the most traditional
holidays in the United States. Around the country,
people celebrate the time when the pilgrims stopped
spreading smallpox-infected blankets to the Native
Americans long enough to.bave lunch with them.
This wonderful event is often commemorated
through pageants at local elementary schools, where
one unfortunate child winds up dressed as a turkey
and being chased around a stage by his plastic-axe-
toting classmates. All jesting aside, Thanksgiving
donations are incredibly important to food minis-

tries, as are donations collected at other holidays.
However, this food is needed year-round and not
just during the holidays. In order to alleviate this
need for food, Phi Gamma Delta (FIJI) is starting
the first annual weeklong canned food drive start-
ing on Tuesday the 21“ of September. Donation
boxes will be placed in dormitory lounges, kitch- -
ens, and laundry rooms all over campus, so feel
free to leave cans there. On Friday, October 1,
FIJI will collect all of the boxes from around
campus; this year’s collectioy will be sent to
Hurricane Floyd Relief efforts gn the coast of
North Carolina. FIJI is really trying\to make this
food drive a success, so please make’: donation

The Mystical Body

Continued from front page.

they inevitably draw a response from the viewer.

Two paintings in this collection of Jenny’s
work depart from the general set of the rest. Both
paintings are done in fiery reds and oranges. In one
of these paintings Jenny has pulled open the can-
vas to paint underneath. The outer image in this
painting is a nude set in the soft blue that charac-
terizes some of the other nudes in the collection.
But this outer painting has been torn back, and
underneath, there is a collection of red and oranges
which seems to represent the inside of the human
body. The inner painting has power; its striking
colors seem to represent not only the inside of the

body but also the truly mystical body—the innet
being.

Another notion of the inner being is repre
sented in Vierge Ouvrante. In this painting reds
and oranges are used to show an embryo in devel
opment. In this, painting Jenny has expressed
another part of the mystique and universal quality
of connection between human beings. The inde-
scribable connection between mother and child can
be a metaphor for all the universal aspects of
human nature that connect us all. These universal
aspects are the fundamental reason that Jenny's
paintings affect their viewers. Jenny’s The Mysti-
cal Body enters into that space between human
beings where we are connected.

it's Your Union

Knobloch Campus Center Groundbreaking

iealamieiacetnimamiemmenemees

5:30 PM THURSDAY, OCTOBER 7,

performances by the Generals, the Delilahs, and the Jazz Ensemble followed by Community Dinner
Event will take place between Duke Dorm and Johnston Gym

Free dinner tickets available in the Union, Chambers Hall, < and Commons

Wed. Sept. 29 - Fri. Oct. 1

1999

