2. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 1999

eseeiemneminnees cman wainnidaieesaiaibiiiiiiatieiilaatimieiemaaiai aaa
International Festival

showcases diversity

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The International Students Association (ISA)
held its annual International Festival on Satur-
day, October 16. Students and faculty were
invited to stroll through the Union, enjoying good
food and interesting exhibits on the various coun-
tries represented at Davidson. :

Twenty-two differ-
ent countries and one re-

prise and delight of all present, a mariachi band
gave a performance in the 900 Room. Next, the
international students took part in a flag show.
Carlos Carreras ‘02, the organizer of the entire
event, called out the names of the countries present
at the fair. The students entered the 900 Room
carrying the different national flags and then intro-
duced themselves first in their native language and
then in English. ;
Afterwards, visitors
were able to see an

gion — the Middle East —
were represented at the
fair. The international stu-
dents set up booths for
their respective home-

Twenty-two different countries and
one region — the Middle East -
were represented at the fair.

African drumming
performance and
then a martial arts
demonstration by
Hun Chor Shin ‘02.
Finally, Mauricio

lands. These booths were
grouped in the Home
Room, the Conference Room, or the 900 Room of
the Union, depending on the area of the world to
which each belonged. At these booths, one found
a variety of examples of the culture presented.
Naturally, the great food was the biggest draw,
but, in addition to the cuisine, many showed
examples of traditional dress, played music, or
displayed pictures and other information about
the country.

The Festival also had several additional ac-
tivities aimed at exposing students to other cul-
tures and at highlighting the great wealth of
international diversity at Davidson. To the sur-

Sauma °00 led stu-

dents in a Latin dance workshop.
Carreras said that the preparations for the
event began more than a month ago. He contacted
students through ISA to determine who would be

interested in operating a booth and coordinated the

arrangements for the subsequent activities. He
stated that the purpose of the event was two-fold.
First, he said that the hope was to make this event
an opportunity for new international students to get
involved. Second, the Festival was intended to
encourage “participation in events so that people
will learn” about the number and variety of culture
represented here on campus.

EVENTS COMPILED BY Liz CLASEN
Guest Writer

The week of October 24-28 will be Eyes on
the Prize Week, sponsored by BSC and Sanctuary.
We will be showing the 6 tape video series of
“Eyes on the Prize,” which is a powerful docu-
mentary series on the civil rights movement. The
schedule will be the following:

Sunday, October 24

7:00 - 900. Room - video one is shown - focues
on the beginnings of the movement

8:30 - Home Room - Weekly College Worship
focuses on the celebration of the civil

movement

rights

Monday, October 25
7:00 - 900 Room - video two shown - focuses on
desegregation
8:00 - 900 Room - Panel discussion on desegre-
gation in Mecklenburg County then and now.
Panelists will be
Arthur Griffin, current chairperson of the School

‘“‘EKyes on the Prize”
week, schedule of events

Board; Frye Gilliard, author of the book The
Dream Long

Deferred about the original Swann case in Char-
lotte and currently writing a book about the re-
opening of the Swann

case; and Katherine Crosby, long-time employee
of the school system.

Tuesday, October 26

7:00 - Home Room -~ video three shown - fo-
cuses on freedom rides and sit-ins

8:00 - Home Room - video four shown - focuses
on the March on Washington

Wednesday, October 27

6:30 - 900 Room - CROP dinner, gather for rice,
beans, and discussion

7:00 - 900 Room - video five shown ~ focuses on
the voting rights act

Thursday, October 28

7:00 - 900 Room - video six shown - focuses on
Selma march

8:00-- 900 Room - discussion

WALT makes changes

Story continued from front page.

an effort to correct this, they have started assign-
ing certain music genres to certain times of the
day. This system is common among many stu-
dent run stations at other college and universities
and gives students the luxury of knowing’what to
expect when they turn on the radio. Hopefully,
this will make it “a little bit easier for listeners to
have an idea of what WALT is about,” said
Houser.

Another.new development is the anticipated
addition of a WALT web page. The site will
provide pictures of and information about the DJs
and other information about developments at the
station. In the future, the station hopes to offer
students the opportunity to listen to the station

over the internet. Such an innovation would make
the station more accessible for students both at
Davidson and at other area colleges.

All of these changes are the results of lots of
hard work and planning, said station manager Bobby
Pittenger ‘02. The executive board spent time over
the summer discussing which way they wanted
WALT to go. They discussed many options and
even considered changing over to FM, although
that plan didn’t materialize. Pittenger praised the
work of all of the members and especially the
helpful advice of President Vagt. “Dr. Vagt has
been wonderful in helping out WALT,” he said.
The board hopes to continue these trends of im-
provement, greater professionalism, and coopera-
tion with the administration in years to come.

ER
<5:
Sey

f

Australia

4,
cS
—

Spain

The Davidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

NEWS
Senior Editors
LAURA McCANDLISH
ANN GREGORY

Photograplier

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Businéss Manager
PETER CLARK

Advertising Manager

JAKE HARRINGTON. | PETER'ChARK ARTS.& LIVING
i ‘Ad Designers Senior Editor
SPORTS i ae AVIS
Senior Editors BEN COVINGTON al shers
MIKE ANDERSON CADER HOWARD ; | per:
BURGIN HARDIN a JESSICA BOGO
Circulation Managers ADAM SOTO
Photographer CINDY CLARK
ANNA JUDY INA SPECHAR Head Gopy Editors
Layout Editars . WHITNEY BLAKE
BEN COVINGTON Circulation IRE MIDDLETON
CADER HOWARD DEREK. KVERNO
IRENE MIDDLETON Web Editor
DAN WINGATE STEPHEN GAMBOA

OPINIONS AND EDITORIALS
Senior Editor
MELISSA ANN
deCASTRIQUE

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

mail Davidsonian @davidson.edu,

DAMES COG

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at ;
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian-html.

The Bavidsonian is published Mondays during the academic year by the students of
_ Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The

Bavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-
r offices are located on the third floor of the Union.

OF Col Cty Septet rere pee hat ss .
sonian. Subscriptions cost $40.00

a ir atals Lind erases ss deem

ke VAS Beg Leley
232 Bay State Road
Boston, MA 02215
617/353-9888
E-Mail ¢ abroad@bu.edu =
Visit our web page! ¢ http://www.bu.edu/abroad
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.

Niger Ecuador China

DEADLINES & AD RATES All section articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3
PM for placement in the following Monday’s issue. Articles received after this deadline will not
be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate section editor(s) or dropped

off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC disks
can be used if file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507. *Only those ar-
ticles pertaining to Friday evening or Saturday events supercede the Friday deadline.

