THE DAVIDSONIAN

here does

t he

money
g07 seems to be a good
question to ask these
days of Davidson Col-
lege.

Reminder: — our
school colors remain
red and black. To re-
mind students, new
brick pathways ru-
mored to cost $100,000
enclose. Chambers
Lawn. Continuing the
red and black color
scheme, the long over-
due blazing red track
and squat brick col-
umns combine for a fi-
ery new Wildcat sta-
dium. The black as-
phalt Guest House
turnaround replaces a
few stately trees for-

suofu(tdjo

ALL*0*CASH*UN

merly included in our campus arboretum; the
eight Guest House rooms undoubtedly cause a
parking problem. As a tour guide, I walk the
breadth of the campus weekly, and I honestly do
not think we need more paths, especially expen-
sive brick paths. It is a beautiful campus, wonder-
fully kept up by rampant club car drivers. The
lovely new paths will, I’m sure, endure, but do we
need them? $100,000 covers the building cost of
dormitory janitorial closets and provides those
yellowish containers sloshing murky liquida home.
The money also covers newly painted bathroom
ceilings, red if necessary; paint could eliminate

- peeling ceiling debris the way it now conceals the
_Ist Cannon kitchen mural.

The amount funds
remodeled bathrooms, a four-year-old plan. With
less than a quarter of $100,000 we could have a
strong campus FM radio station, not playing clas-
sical, that broadcasts to the entire campus and
Charlotte. Last week's Davidsonidn issue spon-
sored the letter H; will the next issue sponsor the
colors red and black? Look around you and see
what your tuition money has done — just follow
the red brick roads.

Kristen Taylor ’01

Hall

here comes that point in your day when you

just cannot work any longer. Everyone

experiences it. This is thé point at which
the words begin to blur. You then find your mind
straying from the subject at hand; involuntarily
skipping from Tony Blair’s “Third Way” to Frank
Sinatra’s “My Way.” Wouldn't it be great if they
did it“*my way?” Then I wouldn’t have to eat at the
Commons tonight. I wonder what is for dinner. I
can always avoid the cafeteria and go to the Union
for a small bite. This mosquito bite is really
bothering me, I need to get some Benadryl] tomor-
row. Tomorrow is Friday. Friday night should be
fun; there will probably be another lame party at
Rich. I wish I was rich, then I could have all the
girls IT could ever want following me
around...Girls... .

Yes, itseems every time my mind happens to
stray... where does it wind up? Girls. Is it my fault?
Am I to blame?

Back to the subject at hand. By the time your
vision blurs and “My Way” begins to ring in the
background, it is time fora break. Lucky for you.
many of your hallmates are suffering from the
same dilemma, although I hesitate to assume their
affinity for Sinatra. The residents of 3rd Watts
have come up with an interesting and enlightening
diversion to preserve their sanity on those long
Thursday nights. The cure for their ailment? Hall
Golf.

Hall Golf is a wonderful combination of
patience and excitement, dexterity, and athletic
prowess. Only the best compete in this mix of
skills, chills, and thrills. Yet, despite all of these
required skills, the game is easily played. First you
need a hall; with the exception of those poor
bastards in the Senior Apartments, this shouldn’t
be hard to find. Next, obtain a putter or low iron,
golf ball, and a plastic cup. You are set. It should
be noted that this game improves incredibly with

Golf

both competitors and spectators. Place the cup on
its side at one end of the hall and proceed with
putter and ball in hand to the other side. Have you
guessed what is coming next? Yes, attempt to
place the ball into the cup. As easy asthis process
may sound, it is remarkably difficult. It is espe-
cially difficult if you are playing in a hall that has
a buckle running through it; say a couple inches to
the left of center (3rd Watts).

The crowd falls silent as Andrew steps up to
the green floor tile. He places the neon yellow
Pinnacle Gold number 4 on the ground, rotating it
slightly so that the “pinnacle” faces him. His
breathing becomes regular and controlled as he
takes his stance, putter in hand. His feet are
together as he bends. The only sound is his
breathing, regular, methodical, controlled. He
inhales as the putter lifts off the ground and slowly
arches away from the ball, as if fearing contact.
Then with one powerful exhale, he releases his
pent-up frustration at the world: the hours of
reading and girls, the glares of professors and
girls, the *hamburgers* at the Commons and, oh
yes, girls. Contact occurs and the ball flies for-
ward. A little to the right, then sloping down to the
left... Closer, closer... As the ball races towards
its goal, the crowd breaks its crystalline silence
and becomes a roar.

“Go0e000000000000000000000aL! 11111"

Editor's Note: Andrew is currently being
sued by the estate of Frank Sinatra for use of “My
Way” without proper authorization and royalty
payment. *

*Real Editor's Note: Andrew is also being
sued for libel for unauthorized use of Editor's
name.

Andrew T. MacDonald ’03

few months after I entered the 9th grade,

construction began for a freestanding li-

brary at the north end of my high school’s
campus, near the spot where I waited for my mom
to pick me up every afternoon. The spot soon
became littered with rubble, then bricks and ce-
ment, and eventually, as I began 10th grade, it
became the Hara Library. Seeing this new build-
ing for the first time, I tried to remember what the
spot had looked like before. I realized then, that
remembering my high school’s campus as it was
when I first set foot on it would be almost impos-
sible. It had begun changing the moment I arrived.

My first semester at Davidson in the fall of
1996, I began to think similar thoughts when the
construction of the Watson Life Science complex
got underway.

Now, as Davidson prepares itself for yet
another facelift and I embark upon my senior year,
Tam again plagued by the thought that when I walk
across the stage at graduation, the Davidson that
sees me off will not be the same as that which
welcomed me three years ago. Though I admit I
suffer from premature alumni nostalgia, I write
this article out of concern for Davidson that stems
not from the physical changes the campus will
undergo this year, but from the changes in commu-
nity atmosphere that those changes might imply. I
fear for the quaint and friendly community that
first invited me to be a part of this institution the
small campus sincerity typified in a building like
Lingle Manor. I fear that when Lingle falls, that
sincerity might fall along with it.

Don’t get me wrong, | am nota reactionary.
In truth, I am quite happy about the wave of
technological advances that has overtaken David-
son these last three years. I understand the various
reasons for which new buildings must be built,
why old ones must be remodeled or, as in Lingle’s
sad case, torn down. Davidson is growing. The
Davidson campus and the resources it provides

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 7, 1999 __

Destroying a memory

must grow along with it. Our college is finally
getting the national recognition it deserves, and our
campus must live up to the expectations and re-
sponsibilities that go along with that. All of this is
good, and yet I worry that in our rush to rank
Davidson among the nation’s top colleges, we will
forget what sets Davidson apart from them.

Personal relationships are at the basis on which
Davidson College stands. From the time we drive
on campus and upperclass students help us move in
(out of eagerness to meet and welcome us if not
eagerness to move our furniture), to when a profes-
sor invites us over to his or her house for an end of
the semester party, we thrive on the closeness of the
campus community. The bigger the campus gets
the harder it may for us to keep that closeness
tightly knit. Davidson’s integrity lies not where the
faculty, staff and student body work and reside but
in the community those individuals make up. Spots
like the Well, Elm Row and Oak Row, Sparrow’s
Nest, and Lingle Manor (until its departure into
college housing heaven) remind us that despite its
lofty goals and high academic standards, Davidson
is a small school at heart. That smallness is neces-
sary if Davidson is to remain “‘a residential commu-
nity of scholars” where students develop “humane
instincts and disciplined and creative minds for
lives of leadership and service” (from the course
catalog).

The students that enter Davidson next year
with a new state of the art Student Union and
dormitory will no doubt have the best that technol-
ogy and a few wealthy alumni have to offer. They
will not suffer from overcrowded dormitories, long
lines at the Union Café and run down rooms and
offices for student organizations.

Nevertheless, they will have never known that
little house on the corner across from Rich. I
sincerely hope their college experience is not the

lesser for it.
Alexandra Obregon ’00

Bitter! Table for One.

elcome back to schookeveryone! And

to all the new freshfolk, HOW THE

HELL ARE YA’? I just wanted to
take the time to get something off my manly, and
sometimes smelly chest. The first few weeks of
my “experience” at college were RUINED by a’
long distance relationship... a hometown honey...
a backhome beauty... y’all know what I’m talking
about. Anyway, I hate to be rude and tell you this
and shock y’all, but IT WILL NOT WORK!! All
those people, your friends, your books about col-
lege, even your parents (don’t you hate it!) were
right! Long distance has a one- percent success
rateatcollege. Itis justthe way ithitthe fan. Now,
being that everyone at Davidson, except maybe
me, is on the genius-level, here are some REAL
LIFE examples of why long distance never works.

Out of my ENTIRE hall, more than 90% of us
had girlfriends, by the end of the year it was down
to NONE... zippo... nada... turn right and head to
the DUMP. That’s just the way it goes y’all.
There is nothing that can be done about it and
nothing you can do will stop it, it’s a fact of life...
you know, like the fact that the Rams...no matter
what city they play in, will always suck. It’s a
fact. St.Louis... they suck, Los Angeles — they
suck. EVEN the Panthers beat them... only once,
but they beat them. And the point I’m trying so
vainly to make here is not that love sucks... it’s not
so bad (although it sucks for me). It’s that y’all
should end the relationship now before it’s too late
and you hate her and she hates you. Believe me
folks, I've walked down the road and it’s a long
dark road covered. in horse$#&@.

If you don’t believe me, I'll tell you two
separate stories, with the names changed to protect
the innocent and keep some folks out of jail. First
up, is a darling friend of mine who hada hometown
hunk. Now I love this girl to death, but as soon as
she hit the campus... she was out the door and
ready to go. She couldn’t resist the temptation of
all these college males I guess. True story! You
see, the man ain’t around and the home fire is «
burning, and there are lots of local volunteer
firefighters, if you get my ill-advised
metaphor, to put out the flame.

My second is a combination of two actually.
There was this good friend of mine and he wor-
shipped the ground his H.H. walkedon. Hethought
her [expletive] didn’t stink, y’all got me? And
after 6 MONTHS at school and numerous road
trips to visit her, she decided she “wanted to find

herself” and the world famous: “It’s not you, it’s
me!” Which guys, that really means... IT’S YOU!
And she promptly ripped my... umm, I mean... my
buddy's heart out with a wooden spoon (spoons hurt
more...I saw it ina movie) and jumped up and down
on it and sent him into a drunken coma later that
night.

I’m not trying to be rude, or mean, or pessimis-
tic: [had listened to EVERYONE and their mother’s
advice. I’m sure I have pissed someone off, who
believes that their romance can work out, but incase
you are feeling lucky enough to win that Georgia
lotto, take my advice and punt before it’s too late.
Because, for the first time ever, y'all got a clean
slate to work with and nobody knows you... don’t
waste time you could be spending with new friends
wasting away on old flames. And that’s all I have
to say about that.

Jimmy Burford ’02

