The Dabidsonta

A LO BUN..D. Aww Li Dx... UB JOR Aw LL Be RAs

“The Nation’s Foremost
College Weekly”
‘ Class of 2003

° A profile!

EstaBiisHeD 1914 NEWS 2

Kickboxing:
It’s damn manly!

OPINIONS 6

Men’s soccer comes up short,
despite stellar performances!

SPORTS 18

Positive dissatisfaction,
i.e. satisfaction?

AOCL 15

Special Fall Phone Directory Pull-Out Section — Page 7

Annual Cake Race subverts construction obstacles

Laura McCanbDLisH
News Editor

Despite construction obstacles at Johnston
Gym and Richardson Track, the Annual Freshmen
Cake Race was held last Wednesday. The race
originated over 60 years ago at Davidson, when it
was mandatory for all freshmen to run in order to
determine new prospects for the cross country
team. On Wednesday, both varsity athletes and
non-athletes raced to win one of the 109 donated
cakes, distributed evenly between the male and
female winners.

The course was approximately 1.7 miles, yet
the route differed from past years due to construc-
tion. Runners began on the Field Hockey field

The first place winners were
Jimmy Swansboro ’03 for the
men and Caroline Bennett
’03 for the women.

instead of the track, and the course continued past
the tennis courts towards Little Library, and then
down Main St. following around Patterson Court,
finishing again on the Field Hockey field.
Jimmy Swansboro ’03, a cross country run-
ner, finished first for the men with an unofficial
time of 8:42. His teammate, Trip Young ’03,
placed second with a time of 8:45. Caroline
Bennett 03, also a cross country runner, placed
first for the women, although the first 19 female
finishers unintentionally cut Patterson Court out
of the run because the course was poorly marked.
Liz Gross ’03 placed second for the women.
Caroline said, “I really enjoyed the race. It
was fun to run with my teammates and share cake
with the team and my hall.” She chose a hot-air
balloon cake donated by Math Professor, Dr. Rob-

o As the gin sounded, the Freshmen males sprinted from Field Hockey Field.

Dan Wingate

drew, felt the race was successful. He said, “I was
pleased that
my team fin-
ished in the
first four
spots for the
men. Wealso
had six or

won but he had run earlier in the day already,”
Swansboro added.

Young said, “I think the race was a good way
for everyone to come out, have a little competitive
fun, and win some cool cakes. I don’t know who
made those cakes, but they were really good. I'd
really like to thank whoever made them.” Young’s

race. Young said, “The night before, Joel and I
were joking
around about
the race. Now
our claim to
fame is that we
have the most
athletic room

... the first 19 female finishers unintentionally
cut Patterson Court out of the run because the
course was poorly marked.

ert Whitton.
For Swansboro, the race “

high school one last time.”

against Young, his teammate.

felt liké racing in
He enjoyed racing

prize was two chocolate star-shaped cakes, sur-
rounded by a sea of M & M’s.

Joel Sadler ’03, who is Young’s roommate
and a varsity soccer player, placed tenth. in the

in freshman
class.”

The Men’s Cross-Country coach, Gary An-

seven of the
top thirteen‘finishers overall, so | was happy.”
(For mare information please see Sports on page 18)

“Trip should have

INDEX

EDITORIALS ....cc.50.c ses gee dices 5
OPINIONS i. ocisciciiciescadessseacticonss 6
FALL PHONE DIRECTORY ...... 7
ARTS & LIVING ......... oo essai 15
RPE PPR Lo ilevctpessesessasdteses secede yess 17

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

DEADLINES & AD RATES

Allsection articles and advertisements are due on Fridays by 3 PM for placement in the following Monday’s
issue. Articles received after this deadline will not be edited or placed.* These can either be e-mailed to the appropriate
section editor(s) or dropped off at the Davidsonian Office in the College Union. Macintosh/Apple disks preferred, but PC
disks can be used if file is saved in an RTF format.

Advertisement sizes and rates: Full page: $320, half page: $160, 1/4 page: $80, 1/8 page: $40
For more information on ordering ads, contact Peter Clark at (704) 896-6507.

College Communications

@ The Class of 2003 embarks upon
their Davidson Adventure — article
on next page.

*Only those articles pertaining to Friday Evening or Saturday events supercede the Friday deadline.

