THE DAVIDSONIAN

News.

TUESDAY, MARCH 23,1999 3

Dr. Walter McCrone discusses the Turin Shroud

By Manpy Lauria
Staff Writer

On Wednesday, March 17, Dr. Walter
McCrone of the McCrone Research Institute in
Chicago gave a lecture in the Chambers gallery
about the authenticity of the Turin Shroud. The
Turin Shroud, displayed in St John’s Church in
Turin France, has been the destination of millions
of religious pilgrimages. Devout religious follow-
ers believe that Jesus was wrapped in this shroud
after his death. Dr. McCrone accepted the task of
determining the dates and chemical make-up of the
Turin Shroud, and he unknowingly involved him-
self in a great religious controversy that has re-
mained a part of his life even today.

The Public Lectures Committee and the De-
partment of
Chemistry com-

There is a distinct image of the back and front of a
body as well as what appears to be blood stains.
The image of the body is a negative one where the
highest points on a body are the ones that show: up
on the shroud. The first knowledge of the shrofid
was in 1356 where it was exhibited for the first
time as Christ’s burial shroud. Since then, the
shroud has been viewed by many who believe in
its authenticity. In 1932 over three and a half
million people viewed the shroud in a period of
just several weeks.

McCrone began his task by taking samples
from all over the shroud. He took samples from

areas where the image showed up, from “blood” °

stained areas and from areas without any coloring
on them. He made slides of this material and
magnified them by 2,500 times. McCrone found
that the im-
age samples

bined efforts with
Dr. Ruth Beeston,
a Chemistry pro-
fessor, to bring
McCrone to
Davidson.
McCrone studied
as an undergradu-

Dr. McCrone accepted the task of determining
the dates and chemical make-up of the Turin
Shroud, and he unknowingly involved himself
in a great religious controversy that has
remained a part of his life even today.

contained a
Red Ochre
pigment,
which is a
paint pig-
ment that has
been used for
thousands of

ate and graduate.
student at Cornell
University. He works in research microscopy,
crystallography, and ultramicroanalysis. In 1956,
McCrone founded the McCrone Associates, and in
1960 he started the McCrone Research Institute
that teaches fundamental research in inicroscopy.
Dr. McCrone has used his skills to study art objects
and artifacts such as the Vinland Map and the Turin
Shroud. He also works to trace evidence in civil
and criminal investigations.

In 1978 Father Peter Rinaldi invited Dr.

McCrone to investigate the authenticity of the.

revered Turin Shroud. The shroud is about four-
teen feet long and has been through several fires.

years. The
“blood

stained” area of the shroud contained the paint.

pigment vermillion, which has been used since
700 AD. McCrone explained that real blood would
not be made up of tiny particles like the samples
that he found of the fibers. He realized that this
information alone would not satisfy the millions of
people who believe that the shroud really has the

-imprint of Jesus’s body. He said, “I knew it was a

pretty important question, and I knew I would be
questioned about it.” In order to produce more
evidence, McCrone stained similar cloth fibers
with blood and compared those with that of the
Turin Shroud. The two samples were obviously

djfferent. McCrone also gathered more conclu-
sive data that supported his discoveries.
McCrone’s data suggested that the Turin
Shroud was fabricated in 1355 which dates the
shroud to a year before it was first discovered. He
explained that there was a demand for many

shroud was not authentic and dated from 1325.
McCrone put a lot of effort into his study of
the Turin Shroud, but his findings have met much
opposition. “People, who I hear from over the
Internet believe it is the real Shroud that covered
Jesus,” McCrone said. He receives on the aver-

religious age two let-
artifacts in ters a day in-
thi - . sisting that
lar period MeCrone’s data suggested that the Turin Shroud jis findings
for reli- Was fabricated in 1355 which dates the shroud to are false.
gious pil- @ year before it was first discovered. ae
grimages. é

He showed his more hu-
the group morous let-

similar images made by artists in the area during
that time period. According to McCrone, for an
artist of the 14th century, painting the Turin
Shroud with the paints he found would not be a
rare or difficult task.

Although McCrone had the scientific evi-
dence to back up his argument, many people
would not accept his findings. One suchcritic was
Father Peter Rinaldi, the man who had originally
asked McCrone to authenticate the shroud. Con-
fident that its authenticity would be confirmed,
Rinaldi had no idea that McCrone would discover
the shroud was a
fabrication. Many

ters with the group. On the back of a postcard
someone wrote, “Old man Walter McCrone is an
incompetent senile old fart who belongs in the nut
house.” McCrone has not been able to remove
himself from this religious controversy and de-
scribes many of the communications that he re-
ceives from religious zealots as “very unchari-
table.”

McCrone currently works as the emeritus
Director of the McCrone Research Institute and
emeritus Editor of “The Microscope,” an interna-
tional journal of applied microscopy. He is a

Fellow of the Inter-
national Institute of

claimed that the
shroud had to be
real because art-
ists of the four-
teenth century
would not know

The first knowledge of the shroud was
in 1356 where it was exhibited for the
first time as Christ’s burial shroud.

Conservators and the
American Academy
of Forensic Science,
and he is also an hon-
orary Fellow of the
Royal Microscopical

how to paint a

negative image. McCrone, however, found evi-
dence of paintings of negative images from the
fourteenth century. After McCrone completed
his studies, he gave other scientists some samples
to confirm his findings with electron microscopes.
The electron microscopes also found that the

; Societies. McCrone
has written over 400 publications on his diverse
interests, including the authentication of art ob-
jects, microscopy, and forensics. His most recent
book, “Judgement Day for the Turin Shroud” was
published in 1997 and explains his investigation
of the Turin Shroud’s fibers to determine its
authenticity.

Bring Your Resumes!

Seniors

e Meet Employers with Positions to Fill
Juniors, Sophomores, & First-Years

e Meet Employers who Recruit on Campus
e Meet Employers with Summer and Fall
Internship Opportunities

Free Deluxe Ice Cream & Door Prizes

Career Fair ¢ Friday, March 26
12:30 - 3:30 p.m., Chambers Gallery

Participating Organizations Include:

Aerotek, AMS (American Management Systems), Andersen Consulting, Aon Consulting, J.C. Bradford,
Buckhorn Capital Management, Carolinas Healthcare, Disability Determination Services, Enterprise Rent-A-Car,
The Financial Group, First Union/First Place Staffing, INFONXX, International Paper, Milliken,

New York Life Insurance, Peace Corps, Pfizer Pharmaceutical, Philadelphia Center, Providence Day School,
Research Triangle Institute, Royal SunAlliance, Schneider National, TCS Management Group

