TUESDAY, MAR

Downward trend in tuition increase

sive fee for the current year is $27,521.
While minimizing increases in student

Press RELEASE Building for biology and, to a lesser extent, psy-

chology. In addition, it will increase the library’s

Davidson College trustees last week approved
a $53.748 million budget for the 1999-2000 fiscal

charges, the new Davidson budget maximizes
increases in entry-level faculty compensation to

annual purchasing
funds, purchase pri-

and software in labs, and to help faculty with
management of web-

year that includes the
smallest percentage
increase in student
charges in 26 years.

The comprehensive fee for students

achieve parity with
Davidson’s peer group
institutions and in-
cludes compensation

mary source material
for a new teaching
position in African-
American history,
and give additional
funds to most depart-
ments for everyday
office needs.

The bulk of the $250,000 of new
academic program funds will
complete the equipping of Watson
Life Science Building for biology

based _ instructional
tools.

Because of trustee
policy, the increase in
tuition triggers propor-
tional increases in the
college’s expenditures
for financial aid, which

The 3.8% in- ° ° oye increases for other fac-
sities tetanstiarths OM TO including tuition, fees, ulty and staff as well
comprehensive fee 100m and board, will be $28, 568. The budget adds
for students next year, funds for academic pro-

including tuition,

fees, room and board, will be $28, 568. That figure
includes a base cost of $22,228 for tuition and
mandatory activity and laundry fees, which is
$833 more than the current year. The comprehen-

grams and technology.
Clark Ross, vice presi-
dent for academic affairs, said the bulk of the
$250,000 of new academic program funds will
complete the equipping of Watson Life Science

All faculty and

and, to a lesser extent, psychology.

will rise $432,000 to a

key staff computers

will be upgraded to network standards, and im-
provements are planned for the campus telecom-
munications network. Two new positions will be

total of $11.1 million.
Students also receive other financial aid from
outside sources, which is not reflected in the
college budget.

Top marimbist will highlight Concert Series

Press RELEASE

Makoto Nakura, a master of the marimba,
will present a Concert Series performance at David-
son College on Monday, March 22. The presenta-
tion will begin at 8 p.m. In Hodson Hall of
Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are $12
for adults and $8 for seniors and students.

The Friends of the Arts at Davidson are also
sponsoring a presentation by Nakura the following
morning for students at the Davidson International
Baccalaureate Middle School.

Born in Kobe, Japan, Nakura began to play

the marimba at age eight. He earned an artist’s
certificate with distinction from the Royal Acad-
emy of Music, and a master’s degree at the
Musashino College in

and Irene Diamond Soloist Prize of the Young
Concert Artists and in 1996 appeared as concerto
soloist with the New York Chamber Symphony.

“Makoto Nakura

Japan. In January
1994, Nakura became
the first marimbist to
win a place on the
Young Concert Art-

Born in Kobe, Japan, Nakura began
to play the marimba at age eight.

plays the marimba
with superhuman
energy and tech-
nique,” wrote a re-
viewer in the South

ists roster. Already a
great success in Asia,
he made debuts in New York and at Washington’s
Kennedy Center in 1995. He then won the Aaron

Professor Kazee to leave

Continued from previous page

Kazee said, ‘“‘My coming to Davidson was a confir-
mation of an old adage: find something you love to
do and that someone will pay you for and do that.”
Teaching, Kazee said, is “not only an occupation
but also something I love.”

Besides the students, Kazee has also enjoyed
his professional associations. He appreciates his
colleagues, and he feels pride to be a member of a
“remarkable department.” Kazee said that “chair-
ing the political science department has been a
labor of love” and that it is “rewarding every day.”

‘Despite his love for teaching and his col-
leagues, Kazee said, “I won’t miss the very many
different hats that the faculty at Davidson are asked
to wear.” The “competing demands on one’s time”
and “diverse set of responsibilities” that have faced
Kazee include the administrative duties of a de-

Live with British
students in the very
center of Oxford

‘ as an Associate
Student of a medieval
Oxford college.
Summer and graduate study
available. Since 1985,
students from 240 leading

U.S. Colleges have studied in
Oxford through W.LS.C.

Washington International
Studies Council
214 Massachusetts Avenue, N.E.
(Suite 370)

Washington, D.C. 20002

Phone Number: (202) 547-3275

Free Telephone: (800) 323-WISC
Facsimile: (202) 547-1470
E-mail: wisc@erols.com

partment chair and the position of faculty repre-
sentative to the NCAA and the Southern Confer-
ence. While “diverse things do push you in differ-
ent directions” at Davidson, Kazee hopes to find
a narrower focus: I “will have a full plate at
Sewanee, but the things on the plate will share a
more common focus.” Still, Kazee emphasized
that he has not been unhappy at Davidson and said
“those frustrations have nothing to do with my
leaving.” He added, “on balance, I’ve been very
happy here,” and he said that he feels “mixed
emotions,” both “great sadness and excitement,”
about the change.

Kazee also felt that his time at Davidson has
prepared him for his new position at Sewanee.
Serving as the political science department chair
has given him a “‘fair amount of responsibility.” In
addition, Kazee has chaired committees, such as
the Professional Affairs Committee, that work
closely with the administration. He said, “I’ ve had
about as much of administrative responsibility as
one can get short of being a dean.”

A 1974 graduate of Baldwin-Wallace Col-
lege, Kazee received his Ph.D. from Ohio State
University in 1978. His dissertation dealt with
“Congressional Elections and the Rerun Phenom-
enon: A Study of Candidate Recruitment and
Incumbency Advantage,” a subject he still re-
searches. Before coming to Davidson, Kazee
taught at Tulane University for three years. He
specializes in American politics, American insti-
tutions, Congress, the presidency, public opinion,
media, and Southern politics. In 1987-1988, the
American Political Science Association granted
him a Congressional Fellowship to be a policy
analyst in the US House Subcommittee on Tele-
communications and Finance and a legislative
aide in the office of Senator Tom Daschle in
Washington. He edited a book, “Who Runs for
Congress: Ambition, Context and Candidate
Emergency,” forthe Congressional Quarterly Press
in 1994. Georgetown University Press has cur-
rently contracted Kazee to write another book
tentatively entitled “Political Trust and American
Politics.” In addition, he sits on the editorial board
of the professional journal “American Review of
Politics,” and he has written several articles for
professional journals and has served as a featured
presenter at professional conferences.

While Kazee is not happy about saying

goodbye to his students and colleagues, he is ©

ready for a new challenge. When he leaves, Dr.
Mary Thornberry will take over as political sci-
ence department chair.

China Morning

Post. “There is bal-
ance, a resonance and fireworks that leaves the
audience gasping for more.”

He is currently a visiting consultant for per-
cussion studies and frequent recitalist at the Hong
Kong Academy for the Performing Arts, and
performs concerts and educational activities at

colleges and universitiés throughout America.
Since 1992, he has been the youngest member of
the Percussion Group ‘72, Japan’s most presti-
gious percussion ensemble. He has also given
recitals and master classes at the Royal Academy
of Music in London.

Davidson’s Concert Series was created
through an endowment established by First Char-
ter National Bank in honor of the Coltrane family.
It is funded by the endowment, the music depart-
ment, and the College Union. Additional support
is provided by the Friends of the Arts at Davidson,
and Classical 89.9 WDAV radio is providing
media sponsorship.

For reservations for Nakura’s concert at
Davidson, call the College Union ticket office at
892-2135 from 2:30-5:30 p.m. weekdays.

Che Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

bTSiness

- SSOLLBE DER £3
News Editors fo po - ' ow NG Op-Ed Editors
CARRIE ARTH®R a aes wc y¥ “QGETH ALLEY
ASHLEY E EUGENIALEATH _- ISSA ANN

Ay, eae

Jae WL ree :

aera
Pte bLO) D

anage

CASTRIQUE

oO

Founded in 1914
“The Tom Clark Museum’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Oe Davidsonian i is published Tuesday during the sade year a the students of

