THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Mike ANDERSON °
Sports Editor

Ascreenwriter could have not have
crafted a more awe-inspiring story than
that which played out last Saturday night
when Davidson met top-seeded UNC-
Greensboro in the semi-finals of the
women’s Southern Conference Tour-
nament.

Less than three weeks prior,
Greensboro handed the Lady ‘Cats a
heartbreaking 64-61 defeat, pulling
away in the final seconds of the contest
at Belk Arena. Wildcat sophomore
JoAnne Hassel said after that game,
“This game we knew was very impor-
tant to us, because this was a gauge as to
where we were. Now we know that
we're at this top-level. We know that
we’ re playing at tournament-caliber. If
we can play with this intensity and play
this well together, we’re going to meet
them in the tournament, and they’ re not
going to beat us three times in a row.”

She was dead right.

When they did meet again,

Davidson stunned the conference’s
winningest team with a dramatic buzze'
beater by sophomore center Jessica
Heath.

With 14 seconds to go in the con-
test, Greensboro carried a seemingly
secure four point cushion. After all, the
Wildcats were without their starting 3,
4, and 5 players—Jamie Brown and
Katy Kamp had fouled out, and Jessica
Montrella was carried off the court with
a serious knee injury (torn ACL and
MCL) with just minutes to go in the
game.

The Wildcat lineup for what could
have been the last gasp of their season
included only two starters, Kerry Brown
and Jen O’Brien, along with Janna
Magette, Jessica Heath, and Meagan
Gleason off the bench.

Back on October 31, head coach
John Filar predicted to the Davidsonian,
“T know what the juniors and seniors are
going to bring to this team. It’s going to
be the freshmen and the sophomores
that’s determine how far we go.” Al-
most exactly four months later, it came
downto the most clutch final seconds of
their season, and only two starters were
on the floor.

A clutch three-pointer off the glass by
Kerry Brown brought the ‘Cats within a
single point with six seconds to go.
Greensboro fumbled the subse-
quent inbound out of bounds, giving the
“Cats possession with 4.1 seconds on
the clock and but a one-point deficit.
“We wanted to get the ball to JenO’ Brien
and we did,” recalled Filar, “but the ball
fumbled out and sometimes it’s more

* about being lucky than good.”

The inbound play was broken when
the ball was dribbled off the foot of a
Greensboro defender and careened
loose. Showing spectacular court pres-
ence and an utter resistance towards
defeat, Kerry Brown recovered the ball,
stumbled, and then pushed the ball to-
ward the center of the court into the
hands of a wide-open Jessica Heath in
the post. Heath caught the ball and
tossed ina textbook short jumper off the
glass as the horn sounded.

“It’s so rewarding as acoach to see
where (Jess) has come from since this
fall,” beamed Filar. “For this to happen
to her at the end of a semi-final game is
fantastic. She took that ball, turned
around and hit a nice jumper. She’d
been practicing that all season long.”

The Greensboro Coliseum erupted
into a thunderous frenzy as players,
families, friends, and media swarmed
the court in a tearful celebration. “I
can’t believe it! It’s an amazing win,”
said Jamie Brown. “The fact that it
happened our senior year makes it all
the more emotional. I’m so proud to be
apart of this team. We fought the whole
game against a team that fought just as
hard against us. We worked so hard for
this, and there’s nothing we wanted
more.”

With the victory, Davidson earned
their first ever berth in the SoCon Tour-
nament Championship game. “I can’t
think of amoment in the eight years I’ ve
been at Davidson College that I’ ve been
as proud or excited about a group of
young ladies,” said John Filar. “This is
what we’ ve wanted all year long. You
see how wonderful a basketball players
there are out there, but they’re unreal
people. They have no idea what the
word quit is, they have heart as big as
any heart I’ve ever seen.”

Photo by Mike Anderson

@ Left: Jen O’Brien and Jessica Heath hug
Coach Filar after Saturday’s win over top-

seeded UNC-Greensboro.

@ Center: Leah Uhernik skies for a jumper.
@ Right: After diving for a loose ball, Jess
Montrella and teammates await the ref’s

SPORTS

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 1999

@ An elated and tearful Jessica Heath hugs teammate D’Erica
Taylor after hitting the biggest shot in Davidson’s women’s basketball history to
upset top-seeded UNC-Greensboro in front of a home crowd at the Greensboro

Coliseum.

Photo by Mike Anderson

