16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ SPORTS

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 1999

Davidson honors winningest class ever

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

Though every Wildcat in uniform saw
court time on Saturday, the afternoon
undoubtedly belonged toa trio of young
ladies from Pennsylvania. Sisters Jamie

~ and Kerry'Brown, along with Jessica
Montrella were honored in Saturday’s
senior day celebrations as the winningest
class in program history.

Inthe two seasons before this Class
of 1999 donned Wildcat red and black,
Davidson’s women’s basketball team
lost all of their 21 conference contests.
The Browns and Montrella all made
debuts as starters in their freshman year,
and over their four-year career,
Davidson boasted the only Southern
Conference program to post four win-
ning seasons. oty

“We’re never going to be able to
replace them,” says Coach Filar. “Jamie,
Kerry, and Jess are very dear to me
because they are our first really big
recruiting class. They put faith in me,
and I really appreciated that. They
trusted us, they went out ona limb forus
by coming to Davidson.”

With 7 points on Saturday, Kerry
Brown hit the 800 point plateau. The
5°11” guard has also posted over 270
assists, putting her second on the
school’s all-time list. Kerry was named

All-Southern Conference second team _

following her junior campaign, and was
voted Southern Conference Player of
the Week just this past week.

9

o\

‘visitor into the paint.

Katy Kamp welcomes a Wofford

Seniors Jess Montrella, Jamie Brown, and Kerry Brown have won more games in
Wildcat red and black than any other women basketball players.

Kerry’s sister Jamie closed out this
season with over 900 career points,
almost 500 career rebounds, and well
over 200 assists. Jamie also posted the
best career free throw percentage
(78.6%) in school history and garnered
Southern Conference Player of the Week
honors early last December.

The team’s third senior, forward
Jess Montrella, accumulated 1040 ca-
reer points (placing her 4" all time) and
85 blocked shots through the close of
regular season action, serving asa
threat both in the paint and on the
perimeter, both on offense and defense.

The trio turned in a traditionally

Head Coach John Filar advises his athletes? 5:

impressive and emotional performance
on Saturday, leading Davidson to a 78-
53 victory over Wofford. The Class of
99 combined for 35 points, 20 rebounds,
8 assists, 7 steals, and 2 blocked shots.
Their fun-loving demeanors on the court
were matched only by the smiles adorn-
ing the faces of the fans, young and old,

in attendance to watch these three ball
players pace the hardwood one last time.

_ As each poured their hearts into one

final home game, Coach John Filar
brought each of them off the floor in
succession as the clock waned toward
the final buzzer. Each received thun-

. derous applause as tears dripped down

smiling faces as they left the floor one
final time and were greeted in the open
arms of their teammates and coaching
staff.

After the game, the three walked
through the stands personally thanking
their loyal supporters who had followed
the girls across their careers, and then
joined their teammates on press row to

’ sign autographs for the dozens of young

fans in attendance.

“Tt was a great sending-off party
for our seniors,” said John Filar. “It was
a great atmosphere on the court with the
players, their parents, and the Kids In
Red. This team has been a fantastic role
model throughout the year, whether we
win or lose.

“T think these girls are one of the
most respected teams around campus.
They’ ve become so involved in the com-
munity, and our stature in the commu-
nity has grown so much.”

The Class of 1999 will leave their
names splattered throughout the
Davidson College record books. But
they will surely be remembered for their
relentless determination and the infec-
tious smiles that drew so many loyal
supporters to what was just four short
years ago an upstart women’s basket-
ball program.

SCT Preview

By Mike ANDERSON
Sports Editor

It all comes down to this.
Davidson commences Southern Con-
ference Tournament play this Friday in
Greensboro, North Carolina.

With an 11-7 regular season con-
ference record, the Wildcats earned the
fourth seed in the tournament and will
meet #5 seed Furman University in the
tournament opener on Friday morning.

Davidson enters the tournament
red hot after three.convincing victories
over Furman, Appalachian State, and
Wofford to close out the season.

“As in any sport, when you’ re get-
ting close to the playoffs, you want
momentum on your side,” said Coach
Filar. “Little by little, we’re picking up
some big time momentum.”

Davidson entered this season with
some lofty expectations, including a
first-place predicted finish in the South-
ern Conference Media Poll. Though a
rocky late January forced the ‘Cats out
of contention for a first-place regular
season finish, they’re still considered
among the conference’s elite.
“There’s no doubt in my mind that
we’re among the best teams in the con-
ference,” said Filar. “It’s going to be a
matter of who can play as well as they
can play, who can get a little bit lucky,
and who can stay healthy over those
three days.” i

Davidson enters the tournament
having beaten 6 of their 8 potential
tournament opponents in regular sea-
son play. The only two teams to have

swept the ‘Cats this season are first-
place UNC-Greensboro and second-
place Georgia Southern, and Davidson
played each of these teams within 5
points.

Davidson has defeated first-round
opponent Furman University twice this
season, marking the first time in
Davidson history that the ‘Cats have
swept the regular season series against
the Lady Paladins. Furman’s Jackie
Smith, a leading candidate for Southern
Conference Player of the Year and even
possible All-American honors, will be
looking to exact some revenge on this
Wildcat squad in the tournament opener.
“Mentally, I don’t think this team could
be any better right now. Our confidence
is right where you want it to be going
into the tournament. They’re tight out
there,” Filar says.

“This is a group that has always
been tight off the court this season. And
now, they’re coming together and play-
ing tight on the court. We’re playing a
lot better team ball. We’ ve got different
leading scorers, different leading
rebounders. We’ve become such a bal-
anced act out there.” ;

To say that this squad is hungry
would be arather gross understatement.
Says senior Jessica Montrella, “For this
season to be as good as it should be, we
need to win the tournament. I don’t
want to settle for anything else. We
want a banner.”

Coach Filar couldn’t agree more.
“There is nothing that this coaching
staff and this team would want to do
more than send this senior class off with
a Southern Conference tournament.”

#4 Davidson
aS vs.

