THE DA VIDSONIAN

By Prituie Stewart
Staff Writer

We see a young man with a video camera,
aiming it towards the ground. Behind him, there is
the most beautiful blue sky imaginable. In the left
side of the frame, an airplane passes by silently.
Cut to the ground, where we
see that he is filming a dead
bird. “Why are you filming a
dead bird?” asks a young
woman, disgusted. His reply
is simple: “Because it’s beau-
tiful.”

Such is my impression of
American Beauty, the most
brilliant film to come to main-
Stream cinema in ages. The
film itself is about dark cir-
cumstances, uncomfortable
Situations, and incredible un-
happiness, but the picture as a
whole is. simply put, beauti-
ful.

The scene is one famil-
iar to all of us: picket fences,
rose gardens, people on their
daily jogs. It reminds me of
movies like Blue Velvet, Happiness, Pleasantville,
Edward Scissorhands, and The Truman Show. It
also reminds me a lot of the town of Davidson,
which is of course the point: a place that seems
sterile, and happy. and wonderful, but has its share
of unsavory problems. ;

So we get a closer look at this ideal suburb.
Our narrator, Lester Bumham (Kevin Spacey).
informs us that he will be dead in less thana year,
his daughter hates him, his wife is unhappy. and
that he starts the day by masturbating in the
shower.

Lesterand his realtor wife (Annette Bening.
in an Oscar caliber role) go to the high school of
their daughter Jane to watch her cheerlead at a
basketball game, and Lester gets a glimpse of-
Jane’s friend Angela (American Pie's Mena
Suvari). ‘

He fantasizes about her, and in a breathtak-
ing sequence imagines himself alone with her as

’ rose petals flow like snow from her naked body.
He develops an instant and very embarrassing
attraction to her. He stares at her like a school-
boy, while his embarrassed daughter looks at
him in absolute horror.

Next door to the Burnham's, a seemingly
normal family moves in— the Fitts. Sure, the
son is always looking at things through a video
camera, the mother stares at nothing all day, and
the father is homophobic, but they look normal
enough.

That is until Lester meets up with one of the
waiters at a function for local Realtors. The
waiter is the Fitts’ son next door, Ricky (Wes
Bentley). “Do you party?” Ricky asks, and
before you know it, they are outside smoking a
joint. Ricky quits his job as a waiter right there,
and Lester is spellbound.

These two chance encounters with his
daughter's best friend and the boy next door
cause him to completely change his life. He
Starts lifting weights, and he quits his job. He
also begins admitting to himself that his life is
terrible, and he starts being completely honest to
his wife and daughter.

In one great scene, he and he wife begin
necking on the couch, but she stops him because
he almost spills beer on the $4000 couch. “Why
are you so joyless?” he asks her, “This isn't life!”
He is finally in control of his life, andheis happy.

To give away anymore of the plot would be
acrime. The movie has so many unpredictable,
yet totally believable moments. The first time
film director, British theater director Sam
Mendes, delivers a product that fills every frame
with a new sight to cherish. He truly knows how
to use his camera and his actors.

Not one line in the film made me roll my
eyes in disgust, or laugh at the acting. All of the
acting is superior in fact, most notably Spacey,
Benning, Suvari, and Bentley. Wes Bentley,
who has only made a brief appearance in one
movie, has a true gift. One monologue, in which
he describes and ‘shows us what he considers to
be the most beautiful thing he has ever filmed, is
delivered with such intensity and emotion that
the viewer totally agrees with his opinion fos that
moment.

AMERICAN BEAUTY

Arts & LIVING
American Beauty makes the grade “Ever

But the brilliance of this film must be attrib-
uted to first time screenwriter Alan Ball. Every
line hits the right note, every action is perfectly
placed.

This year has been abysmal as far as movies
go. With the exception of The Blair Witch Project,
Tarzan, The Sixth Sense, Stir of Echoes, and Star
Wars, 1999's movies have been near the quality of
drivel like Wild Wild West
— one of the worst main-
stream films made in ages
— the exact opposite of
American Beauty.

American Beautyis
the clear front-runner in
terms of Oscars. As of
now, itlooks to bea sweep.
It could easily win Pic-
ture, Director. Screenplay,
Actor, and Actress. It is
very dark, and doesn’t pre-
tend to have all of the an-
swers to the problems
“normal” Americans face
day to day, but it should
appeal to almost anyone
over 17 years old. It’s
entertaining enough for the
MTV crowd, and smart
enough for the Independent Film crowd.

It’s a rare gem of a movie, and it solidifies
Dreamworks as a quality film production com-
pany. Every shot, line, movement, and frame is
sheer perfection. Grade: A+ (I don't give those
very often, by the way.)

By Katie WILSON
Staff Writer

Everyone remembers when the band Every-
thing had its hit single “Hooch” a few years ago.
This lighthearted, sing-along-with-me piece is rep-
resentative of Everything’s style, but Davidson
Students who came to the Fall Festival know there
is much variation within that style.

The song “Hooch” and many others could be
heard last Saturday from six to eight when Every-
thing played in front of the BSC. Everything was
part of the First Night Down festivities. Rounding
the comer of the Vail Commons on Saturday night,
students could be seen sprawled on the grass,
eating at the picnic tables, relaxing and having a
good time at a typical collegiate event. Some
students never made it down the hill to see or hear
the band more clearly. while some students took
the opportunity to play a little Ultimate Frisbee on
the lawn. So passive listening was not the only
focus of this concert, but Everything's music lent
itself to the occasion.

Everything's sound is created by five musi-
cians, primarily on drums, guitar. bass, either alto
ortenor sax. and vocals. A soundengineer adds the
necessary digital details. Some of their work
sounded like popular, Dave-influenced songs. but

other pieces highlighted the saxophones and,

sounded more like punk/ska. This band has obvi-
ously been inspired by anumber of different sources.
Demonstrating their diversity in style, Everything
has four albums out. Few people recognize their

productivity. Their first record. “Solid.” dates.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999 9

ything” plays Fall Fest

back to 1993 and was recorded two years after the
band’s formation. Their other albums are “Labra-
dor,” “Everything (Live),” and the more familiar
“Supernatural,” with the hit single “Hooch.” “Su-
pernatural” is unique because it was recorded in a
deserted mansion in northern Virginia, giving an
entirely individual feel to the music. The lead
singer, Craig Honeycutt, informed the audience
that Everything looked forward to recording an-
other album soon. The band even tried out the new
material in Saturday’s concert.

Everything also used some of their old favor-
ites, like fast, energetic, “All’s Quiet,” and happy-
go-lucky, “Ladybug,” which focused on the gui-
tar. Similar to “Hooch,” a common theme in
Everything's work is praise of a girlfriendAove
interest, as in “The Real” or “The Good Thing.”
This happy subject is sometimes offset by the
pessimism evident in “All's Quiet” and “Spent,”
and both ideas seem to be evident in “The Every-
day Syndrome.”

The tone of Saturday's performance was set
by Honeycutt's rapport with the audience. He
used the microphone basically to have aconversa-
tion with everyone watching. applauding the girls
making the lawn into a dance floor, reminding us
that we should keep the band entertained in a
surprising role reversal.

The comfortable cheerfulness of the evening
continued with Everything's impromptu “Happy
Birthday” to Jennifer Howard, a Davidson senior.
In general, the combination of pleasant weather.
good friends, good food. and good music made for
an enjoyable Fall Festival.

JOURNEY TO NICARAGUA

Spring Break 2000

Davidson United Methodist Ohurdh

G

The Office of the Chaplain

invite you to the

Information Session and Distribution of Applications

Tuesday, October 5

10:00pm

Home Room of the Union

Rev. Andy Baxter
892-8277, ext. 224

andy.baxter@juno.com

_ rospach@davidson.edu

Questions, contact:

Rev. Rob Spach
892-2420

Michelle Markey
896-6648

mumarkey@davidson.edu
