THE DAVIDSONIAN

itorials

Decision Davidson: a closer examination

As many of you know and for the few of you
that didn’t, check your voice-mail, Decision
Davidson was this past weekend. Roughly 200
prospective members of the class of 2003 partici-
pated in a variety of organized events that ranged
from scholarship interviews to lectures to an ac-
tivities fair. It was not extremely difficult to spot
these 200 added students roaming the halls and the
campus. If the wide-eyed tag-a-long parents and
clenched Davidson folder were not large enough
clues, the name badges were a dead giveaway.
The weekend provided a cornucopia of visual and
auditory events.

On one occasion, I had the unique opportu-
nity of witnessing one prospective’s embarrass-
ment at the hands of his mother. Imagine. A
mother and her‘son are walking down dormitory
row. The son, a few yards in front of his mother,
shows an obvious desire to separate himself from
his parental link. The mother’s face appears to be
expressing a combination of pride, sadness, uncer-
tainty, and happiness. She directs her gaze to her
son, who has now distanced himself a few more

. yards ahead, and asks in a distinct Georgian ac-
cent, “What dorm are you staying in?” The son’s
face flushed red in obvious embarrassment on
being asked such a question in the presence of
other students. Cocking his head at an odd angle,
he replied with a whining emphasis, “Mommmm!”
Either in an act of selective hearing, or a desire to
truly know what dorm her son was staying in, or a
devious plot to create a scene, the mother asked her
son again, “Which one of the dorms are you
staying in?” Only one phrase was audible as the
son slowed to decrease the distance between him-,

self and his mother, “What do you mean I am
embarrassing you?” As the two continued on
towards the parking lot, I saw a sigh of relief wash
over the son’s face as he hurried into the back seat
of a waiting vehicle. The mother gracefully en-
tered the passenger side of the car, began talking to
the driver, and looked slightly bewildered.

In another instance, I watched in amazement
as a prospective repeatedly ran his temporary one-
card through the scanner the wrong way. After at

least five or six tries, he tilted his head to read the -

scanner. Flipping the card around, he ranit through
the scanner with asense of pride. Yet, he continued
to stand in front of the door to Watts. Again, he ran
his card through the reader, the light flashed green,
he paused, and then he reached for the door and
pulled. The door, having already locked again, did
not budge. Finally, the light bulb must have gone
on. He scanned his card, the light flashed green,
and he opened the door. To be quite honest, this
made me wonder. If this kid could not understand
the operation of a door, how was he ever accepted
to Davidson? I know some people do not have
much technical know-how, but when I say that this
person made at least seven attempts to open the
door, I am not exaggerating.

But in my memories of this past weekend’s
events, a few comments and questions that I heard
at the activities fair stood out the most. As I sat at
the table, I entertained those that came by with
information about The Davidsonian as well as a
variety of other items on campus. The activities
fair went from around one to about four something,
so by 3:30. I felt that I had been asked almost every
question in the book about this bastion of higher

learning. One set of parents even asked me about

the women’ s eating houses because as they said, “I
looked like I somehow would knew a little bit
about everything!” I was not sure if this statement
was acompliment, but I did my best to inform them
about the four women’s eating houses.

Atone point, I sat and listened as a mother and
father discussed their daughter’s musical abilities
with my Co-Editor in Chief (a current music ma-
jor). The mother emphatically stated, “Oh she is
definitely coming, we have been so pleased with
the entire Davidson. process. Each time we have
come up, it has been extraordinary! Oh, yes, she so
excited about continuing on with her instrument at
Davidson.” It was at this point that their daughter
suddenly appeared. Rather than interrupt her par-
ents’ conversation, she came over and began to
talk to me. Having just heard her mother discuss
how enthusiastic and excited she was about play-
ing her instrument at Davidson, I found it quite
funny to hear the girl say, “I really don’t know if I
am going to continue on playing the horn. I am just
not sure I am willing to commit that much time to
it anymore.” I smiled, listened, and then said,
“Well, you will just have to do what is best for you.
The most important thing to remember is to do
what you want to do,” and I left it at that.

Just when I thought that I had been asked
everything, a mother came up and asked if we
served Guinness. I looked up with a half open
mouth and slightly squinted eyes and said, “Ex-
cuse me?”(I wanted to blurt out “WHAT?” but I
held myself back). The mother went on to say, “I
noticed that you have a Guinness tap over at that
bar, and I was wondering if you serve Guinness?”

I turned around to see where the woman had .
pointed and remembered that I was in the 900
room. I quickly rattled off that beer and other soft
drinks were served in the 900 room during 21-
year-old nights on Tuesdays and during the F.A.C.
(Friday Afternoon Club). The mother replied, “T
think that is really healthy!” I was not sure if she
was commenting on that fact that we served
Guinness or that we had events that served beer in
general. I looked up at her, not knowing what else
to say to this, and smiled. Luckily, her daughter
bounded over from some other table and she
walked away.

I. did go away from this weekend with more
than just acollection of stories. While I sat through
the Scholar’s Dinner and answered questions at
the activities fair, I could just tell who would
choose Davidson and who would move on. I
honestly can’t describe how I know this, but there
was just something that the future Davidson stu-
dent exhibited. I tried to put my finger on how I
could tell, but I then realized that all Davidson
students have a certain characteristic about them.
All you have to do is go to an event where there is
a mixing of people, like the recent concert by
George Clinton and the P-Funk All Stars, you
could systematically go through the crowd and
easily peg the Davidson students. I don’t know
why or how one is able to do this, but trust me on
this, you can!

| ball: Pinucealy T-

There should be a name for times like these

I am getting so old. I remember traveling
down from Raleigh for the 1996 Decision David-
~son weekend — was 1996 really three years ago?—

feeling intimidated yet anxious in surveying the.

campus and town that, although I wasn’t sure of it
at the time, would eventually become my home,

my community, and (in some instances) the bane .

of my existence for the next four years. I stayed in
the senior apartments with a junior, who seemed to
be at the end of his Davidson rope. He was a
seasoned, experienced, rather worn-down college
student, who dragged me down with his apartment
mates on a whim to Amos’ for a Friday night
Eddie from Ohio show. This also was the night
before my big faculty interview at 10:30 a.m. the
following morning. I scrubbed for thirty minutes,
trying to remove all traces of each giant blue “X”’
(one on each hand) that I’d received at the door,
before heading off to shake hands with my would-
be professors, completely in vain.

Anecdotes such as these are becoming less
and less recent. All of a sudden, now I’m the

junior, about to finish up my sixth semester of
eight. Inno way do] view myself as the same sort
of elder statesman that my host appeared to be
three years ago, although I’m sure that he was no
more of one then than I am now. I still feel like I
just got here, chanting “Olé Olé” with my fresh-
man hallmates all over campus.

As oné of two Davidsonian representatives
at Saturday’s Decision Davidson activities fair,
speaking with dozens of prospective students, I
was reminded of my respective visit three years
past, and paused to compare my awareness of
campus life now with my awareness of Davidson
then. :

This past weekend, as well as the week that
preceded it, needed a name. “Everything Week,”
or something much catchier that would capture a
similar essence. So many long-anticipated events
and activities were taking place. If you weren’t
taking in any of the shows, you were performing
inthem. Or you were putting the finishing touches
on (or just starting) your senior thesis. Or you

were mulling over which classes to take next
semester, deciding whether or not you really
wanted to finish that double major, ‘or to simply
graduate, or maybe spend a sixth year, living out
your dream of becoming a “Super Duper Senior.”
Late April pays witness to more of these crucial
decisions and culminations of hard work and
perseverance than any other.

Thefe were four stellar performances of “Jesus
Christ Superstar” in Love Auditorium this past
week. The DC Concert Choir gave its spring
concert on Friday night in the church. Even Belk
Arena, as if not to be outdone, hosted George
Clinton and the P-Funk All-Stars on Sunday night
(“Who’s the guy in the diaper? Is that him?”), the

biggest concert event that Davidson’s seen in -

years. A unique and impressive weekend, to say
the least.

But all of these glamorous end-of-semester
events have not robbed this campus of its solem-
nity, nor should they. Exams and final projects
loom on the horizon, when most of us would rather

be concentrating on enjoying the newly-arrived
spring weather than be surfing through microfilm
in the basement of the library. Debates rage back
and forth, within this publication and without, on
issues which pale in comparison with other worldly
and local concerns — I won’t pretend that I’ve not
been part of the problem in this regard. We're
members of a community that continues to mourn
the loss of one of its own, which should not be
forgotten or overlooked.

Think of the many aspects and intricacies of
student life to which our hundreds of weekend
visitors were virtually oblivious — not that this is at
all surprising. Davidson’s plate was at its fullest
this last week. Aprilis not ever necessarily exhila-
rating or somber, but it is necessarily dense. These
are the observations that come with age.

LETTERS

g

A drummer’s reply

To the Editor:

Tama Belk drummer. In the past issue of The
Davidsonian, we were criticized in a satirical and
tasteless manner because someone had an other-
wise legitimate complaint that, by playing in front
of Belk, we disturbed his studying.

I found this article offensive for several rea-
sons. I am not, however, going to launch into a
diatribe wherein I pick apart that article and call
the author a bunch of nasty names. I am not going
to defend my actions, as I believe they need no
defense. Lam sick and tired of all the inflammatory
rebuttals to the inflammatory opinion articles writ-

ten in The Davidsonian. (have already expressed
my views to the author of this article, so I will not
waste your time by discussing it further.

Instead of complaining to The Davidsonian
when you have a problem, I have a proposal: deal

-with your problems in a direct, straightforward
manner calculated to achieve the results you de-
sire. Sounds radical, doesn’t it?

This is how it works: if someone offends you,
tell him personally. If someone does something
that you don’t like, ask him politely to stop.
Believe it or not, this approach usually works. If
the person refuses to comply with your reasonable

request, then and only then should you write an
article. You will even have more about which to
complain.

Until you have tried the direct approach,
however, keep your mouth shut. Don’t write a
scathing piece complaining about a problem that
you haven't tried to solve. If someone offends you
by doing just that, don’t sink to his level by
indulging ina satire-ridden, dialectical analysis of
his article. Most likely no one put any stock in it
anyway, and it makes The Davidsonian tedious to
read. :
Iam nottrying to prevent people from writing
articles. I think there should be more articles to
read. I would welcome well thought out,
sincere articles written to defend a side of a valid

issue. Satire and insults, however, dull the edge of
an otherwise convincing argument. You won't
win any followers by insulting people. Unless
your intention is to show people how witty ineffi-
cacy can be, you should lay off your keyboards and
use the phone, email, or even the good old-fash-
ioned sidewalk first. That’s the way to get things
done. Be a campus of Doers, not Whiners. Then
we might not even need to write any editorials.

P.S. In order to head off any tedious articles
related to this one, my email address is
taherbert @ davidson.edu. If you convince me I’m

, wrong on this issue, I'll write a retraction for you.

Taylor Herbert ’01
