THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

TUESDAY, APRIL 27, 1999

PCC MINUTES Earth Day 1999 celebrated at Davidson

for April 18, 1999

SuBMITTED BY PHOEBE NorTON

PCC Secretary

The weekly meeting of the Patterson Court Council was held on April 18 inthe Union Conference Room.

I. Attendance
II. Announcements

*PCC Games were canceled last Friday because four teams backed out at the last minute.

*Thank you for attending Shane Windmyer’s speech. We may bring him back for the New
Member Series.

*PCC Bylaws: Proposed Changes

Article III, Section 4 — Change to say that each house must notify the PCC of its new President
no later than one week following the election.

Article III, Section 8 — Add that any individual that misses three meetings in a semester loses his
or her vote for the rest of the semester, in addition to what is currently stated for the
house attendance.

Article III, Section 9 — Change committees to read: “Executive, Finance, Ad Hoc, Judicial
Board, Service, Rules and Regulations, Publicity/School Relations, and Risk Management” to concur
with list in Article VI. No substantive changes.

Article VI, Section 9 — Add description-for Risk Management Committee; move Standards to
become Section 10.

Article VII, Section 8 — Change time frame to 5 business days to allow for processing by Sergeant
at Arms.

Judicial Board Bylaws —

*Number | — Reword somehow to state that five faculty/staff members will be elected to the
J-Board, but at no time will more than three be seated on the Board for a hearing.

*Discuss the question: Should J-Board hearings be taped to provide a record/transcript of
actions if necessary for an appeal or further official investigation?

*Promotions for Fall for Class of 2003. Bottle opener, Luggage Tags, pens, laundry bags, and
posters were suggested.

*Jim’s Announcements .

1) TIPS Training available dates: April 28, April 29, May 4, and May 5.

2) Next week — an update on the Standards will be available.
closings will be available.

3) Closing Banquet will be on May 2nd at 6:00 p.m. in the Gallery.
organization.

Also, a sign-up sheet for house

10 spots are available per
This is flexible, but please talk to Jim about the number of people coming from each
All PCC members must attend this banquet.

4) Thank you to all houses for keeping the houses clean on Thursday for the Presbyterian College

house.

visit.
5) Thank you Christine Larned and Desirae Haylock for a successful Relay for Life.
6) Order of Omega applications had not been turned in. Deadline for all rising Juniors and Seniors
was extended until Friday, April 23.
7) Presidents need to check boxes.
8) House inspections Monday 7:30 a.m.
9) May | is the last day for parties on Patterson Court.

III. Finances — Mauricio Sauma

*Monday 26 — Treasurer dinner meeting at 6 p.m. Please pay dues and Fall Fest Bill by May 1
or fines will be handed down to each house that has not paid.
IV. Service — Christine Larned and Desirae Haylock .

*Relay for Life was a success and may be continued for next year. The Grand Total for the
Davidson Relay for Life was $59,000. Congratulations to all that participated. Please turn in any
money to Christine or Desirae.

*Liz Neiheisel is still looking for people to work the Clothing Drive.

Those who help will be able to stay until May 17.

V. J-Board — Scott Buchanan ;
*Wednesday Appeals Hearing: Please send a letter to Scott and Jim explaining how your house
has completed sanctions that have been handed down.

VI. Discussion

*Turner President Page Neubert brought to the attention of PCC that Turner House has been
trashed on multiple occasions. People have come into the house and thrown food on the floors and have
been disrespectful of Turner’s property. Please refrain from entering the houses and messing them
up. Please respect each and every house’s property.

e Many Davidson graduates and friends visited campus this past
weekend as part of Davidson’s 1999 Alumni Weekend.

tik %
ge Communications

‘Giduz photo, c/o Co.

By AmManpaA L. MorDavsky

Staff Writer

On Thursday, April 22, Davidson hosted

Earth Day on Chambers Lawn. The day’s festivi-
ties were the culmination of several week-long
events celebrating Earth Day.
The week began with a lecture from Ron Altman
entitled, “Land Trusts: Current and Future Projects
of the Catawba Lands Conservancy.” Following
Altman’s speech, on Wednesday, night, Dane
Kuppinger gave a speech entitled, “The Campaign
to End Commercial Logging on Public Land.”

In addition to these two lectures, activities in
honor of Earth Day took place all week long. In the
Union Café, the “Natural Wonder Art Show”
exhibit displayed the artwork of sophomores
Amber Worrell ’01 and Bruce Bell ‘01. Boxes for
a clothing and toiletry drive benefiting the “Room
In The Inn” project were placed in the Union
Lobby, where students could also purchase T-
shirts and mugs in honor of Earth Day. Finally, at
the Home Economist Natural Gourmet Market,
there was an art display showcasing the artwork of
the Ada Art Program.

Giduz photo, c/o College Communications

However, the main event of this week was
Earth Day, a celebration that lasted from 11 a.m. —
2 p.m. on Thursday. Various groups from across
campus and health product distributors represented
themselves with booths. One booth had a petition
to stop driving for one week on campus. The
motivation behind the petition is the pollution,
which comes mainly from the first ten’ minutes
after starting a car. Thus, by not driving around
campus or to the Post Office, students and faculty
can help cut down significantly on air pollution
caused by automobiles.

Warner Hall ran a booth that attempted to cut
down on the junk mail sent to consumers across
campus. Students could apply for a free kit to stop
junk mail from being sent to them. The kit in-
cludes prewritten letters, which will be sent to
large companies requesting that they stop sending
junk mail to that individual.

In addition, a CROP lunch and various com-
panies’ free samples were supplied. The samples
ranged from nutrient bars to protein shakes to
facial soaps & creams to vitamins.

In addition to campus organizations, several
local businesses sponsored Davidson’s annual
Earth Day celebration.

‘Anna Judy

MUSIC!

@ Who said Davidson
wasn’t diverse? A plethora
of musical sounds
permeated our campus last
week. Nowell Zimmerman
(above) beats out some
rhythms on his jembe on a
sunny afternoon near Main
Street. On a more
_commercial scale, George
Clinton and the P-Funk All
Stars performed last Sunday
at Belk Arena. One of
Clinton’s apparently yet-to-
be-housebroken guitarists
wails away (left). Concert
review on page 9.
