THE DA VIDSONIAN

sponsored by ‘the letter °°V.”’

Inlons are

This week’s Op

Reviewing for a Review

omorrow is my first “review.” To be per
fectly candid, currently I am quite unpre
pared. I am of the fullest conviction that I

am not ready for the first major college challenge
that will influence the rest of my adult life.

Frankly, this sucks. I mean, really... To say that one
test in one 50-minute period (not even an hour) is
going affect the rest of my life is a hard pill to
swallow. I plan on living a long time, say two or

three hundred years, and it would be preferable if

I could do this without having to look back to the
one moment of indiscretion when I was eighteen
and decided to play games rather than study that
extra half-hour.

Is it a half-hour? Or is it an hour? Maybe two,
maybe three.... How am I to know? To revert to
economics for a minute (even though the test is an
entirely different subject), how doI know when the
marginal benefit stops exceeding the marginal
cost. (I am sorry Prof. Anderson; I just butchered
that, didn’t I?) In lay terms, at what point will my
extra studying no longer be benefi-

study group. There are two kinds of study groups:
social gatherings that take place under the context

of “studying” anda group of determined individu-
als who all would rather study on their own but are
hoping to leech some information from their fel-
low classmates. Don’t get me wrong, I have no
qualms about leeching or being leeched. I merely
question whether this is the best method for the
consumption of large amounts of data in an in-
creasingly small time span. However, study groups
have beneficial aspects as well. They keep you
motivated. Example: if I were in a study group
now, I wouldn’t be writing this article. Maybe I
have a duty to society that is greater than any
“review”: to provide the community of Davidson
with three minutes of marginal entertainment ev-
ery week...Nah.

Note: A special thanks (?) to Prof. Menkhaus who
provided me with a topic for this week's article.

Andrew MacDonald ’03

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

The Other Side
Up against the wall
and spread ‘em

numbers on the ranking of Christianity

gained by our lobotomized monkey, Bobo,
were incorrect. We apologize for sucha grievous
error and upon realizing this, we shot him on site.
Our new head of research is Chuck, the three
armed, narcoleptic banana slug. May he not be so
unlucky, although we do own up to the fact that
research is not something we practice. It may
prove some of our opinions wrong... and we don’t
like that.

FH irst, an apology. We were informed that the

And now for today’s topic, guncontrol. While
thumbing through the artifacts in our neighbor’s
room, we happened upon a certain piece of fine
literature about which we felt we had to write
(stupid grammar). The magazine in question is the
1999 Annual Handguns. On the cover one can see
that one can read about such important topics as,
“reloading tips for your favorite calibers”, “Tacti-
cal training from an expert” and finally, “Top
choices for concealed carry.” Now, does this
frighten anyone else? Being open-minded Ameri-
cans, we had to see what the top choices for
concealed carry were, and we were happy to find
out that they recommend you not carry anything
“... below a nine.” Because those little .22’s are so
wussy, and they can barely kill a person. News
flash here people, and Chuck has assured us of this,
itis NOT the 19th Century. As a culture we do not
need to be worried about shoot-outs at high noon.
Is there really a reason to carry aconcealed weapon?
NO!

Now, before we receive a mob of angry let-
ters... again, let us just say that we are ok with legal
gun owners who lock their guns up and only shoot
at people and things we don’t like. We have three
big problems with guns: gun regulations are too
loose, semi-automatic and automatic assault weap-
ons, and concealed weapons, the ludicrousy of
which we have already discussed. First, let us
tackle gun regulations. As Homer Simpson so
eloquently stated when attempting to purchase a
gun and was told there is a five day waiting period,
“Five days, but I’m angry now!” The waiting

period and background checks are a good thing,
but they are not going far enough. Gun shows do
not have to follow such regulations and pawn-
shops can be less than stringent with the back-
ground check. We are not calling for aban on guns
here folks, all we want is for the gun makers to stop
worrying about how much money they can make,
and make guns a little less accessible. Lets face it,
if you’re going to use your gun for legal purposes,
you should not mind slightly tighter restrictions on
how you can get your guns or having to wait a few
extra days before you get your finger around that
trigger.

Finally, who in their right mind needs an
assaultrifle? Are you honestly worried about your.
house being attacked by a bunch of paramilitary
guerrillas? A hunting rifle is understandable for
hunting, but who are you honestly going to legally
“assault” from your home? If your defense is to
use it for hunting purposes, how many deer wear
a bullet proof vest, or are so dangerous that you
need the capacity to unload numerous rounds per

* second into them?

..And now for the Springer final thought.
There are times in life when Mom’s meatloaf just
isn’t up to snuff, but this is not a reason to pull out
the glock 9 and... Doh, poignant, but off again. We
understand that the 2nd Amendment gives you the
right to bear arms... or the right to arm bears, or
whatever the hell you want to do. But remember,
as Bill Maher said, “It’s the second Amendment,
not Commandment.” This Amendment was writ-
ten over 200 years ago, when the founding fathers
honestly had to worry about the King of England |
pushing them around. However, our society today
does not have such worries, so maybe it’s time to
put our guns up, concealed or otherwise, and make
a change, before we all have to revert to sitting
with our backs up against walls and away from
windows, and mentally reciting lines form Dirty
Harry.

Cort Heroy ’02
Dave Stroupe ’02

cial towards my grade? To be hon-
est, I have no earthly idea. This
scares me. Maybe by doing the
homework and taking diligent notes
in class I am already prepared. Or,
it could be that I require six hours
of studying to reach optimal prepa-
ration. In high school I could have
skipped the homework, taken notes
on the napkin from my lunch bag,
and studied during the ten-minute
period between classes; | would
have been fine.

As L assume that you have noticed
by now, Iam writing this meaning-
less and unnecessary article instead
of studying. I feel that I must de-
fend myself. First of all, this article
‘isn’t meaningless...at least it isn’t
meaningless to me... Secondly, I
hate to study! My theory (which
will undoubtedly be tragically dis-

CHARLOTTE-MECKLENBURG SCHOOLS
SEEKING PAID TUTORS
THE AVID PROGRAM
(ADVANCEMENT VIA VIA INDIVIDUAL DETERMINATION}

AVIDis. sss

=

a

Candidate: for this position

You must be:

a program designed ; |
to prepare middle
achieving students in
grades 6-12 for four-

year college

and university

entry and
success.

if you are enrolled at a college or university, | in quod dahing: brid wad tie quailignoie taba Geko you are a |

Enrolied in a college or university with good academic standings
Adje to work in a supportive manner with middie level and high schoo! students and teachers
Willing to confer with teachers regularly about students’ progress

Ae ‘

if

aC,

proved in less than 24 hours) is that
if I pay attention and understand
the class, I must already know ev-
erything for the review. (By the
way, don’t get me started on the
topic of why they call what is most
definitely a very large and impor-

Great Ice Cream & So Much More!

Ben and Jerry’s Ice
Cream is searching for
people to show case their
talents in our scoop shop.

LPeae 1 We are looking for
tant test a “review.”’) :

| musical or other talents
Since I have already reached the |}] for evening performances.

conclusion that my theory will fail,
Tnow must to decide what to study.
1am adamantly opposed to reread-
ing the volumes of text I have con-
sumed over the past few weeks.
Not to mention, the logistics of
such an undertaking are ans ab-
surd,

Then there is the possibility of ae

Nothing is too small or
different since we pay in
ice cream!!! INTHRESTED?
Come by Ben and Jerry’s
at 202 South Main Street
and pick up ae talent
application.

Available to work in the Classroom at jeast three days weekly for one Class penod during the school day
Willing to receive three hours taining in the AVID teaching methodologies

An excellent role mode! for motivated, organized and successful students

Representative of a Daianced academic background

Ro
8Reagage

Term of Employment 1999-2000 academic schoo! year
Salary. $7.50 per hour
For additional information. please complete and return to the following:

Charlotte Mecklenburg Schools
+ AMID Office
700 East Stonewall Sveet Suite S06
Cnanote, North Carotina 28202
| Y {704} 343-6975

tran en et
TE ares

SPOeaTeevaseracansouenaensccuee HERBS SSRRRRUERDDOSOED DEES eeeeeEEeeescenuenscenaneeeeneens
POTENTIAL AVID

i (Personal Information}
Telephoie: Message Telephone:
Coltlege/ University:

A\| © Middle or High Schoo! preference:

