Continued from page 1

It’s not what civilized people do.” Nesbitt found it
perplexing “about why an individual —
would feel propelled to correct the lan-

guage of a quote from someone who’s

supposed to have been dead for a num-

ber of years.” She saw the vandalism.as

indicative of a larger problem: “I think

it really points up the lack of awareness

for what art is and the lack of respect for

art.” Urging the Davidson College com-

munity to “come to our exhibitions and ,
lectures” and to “become more familiar

with both contemporary art and artists,”

Nesbitt said, “I think an appreciation

for art and the arts in general would be

a good thing for this campus. I think

that it should be more encouraged.”

She hoped to see some positive results

come from the vandalism: “I’m disap-

pointed that this vandalism happened,

but we should use it as an opportunity to
allow people to consider the various

means of creating a visual expression.”
Nesbitt wanted to increase “an aware-
ness of what art is and can be.”

Shaw Smith, Associate Professor
of Art and Humanities, also expressed
his shock from the vandalism. “My
disappointment about this vandalism,”
Smith said, “is first that someone would
do that to someone else’s intellectual
and physical property, and it also lets us know about
a problem in recognizing the difference between
text and image.” Shaw also believes that “the
person misunderstood what he thought a text and an
image was.” He continued, “if you only see words
as grammar and not as image, you’re locked.”
Shaw likened the vandalism to him drawing a three-
legged woman and then someone erasing the third
leg.

Van

Shaw differed with Nesbitt’s view that the
vandalism indicates a larger problem for Davidson
College as a whole. He said, “I think this is
certainly an anomaly, and I count on the honor and
visual intellectuality of the students.” Still, Shaw
echoed Nesbitt’s wish to “let it be an educational

opportunity as well as a crime.”

Because the. gallery is open to the public,
Nesbitt believes “it could be anybody that walked
into that particular space.” Both Nesbitt and Shaw

alized art plate

have no idea who the person was, and they do not
want to blame students. Speaking for the Belk
Visual Arts Center staff, Nesbitt urged, “we would
like that person to come forward and identify
themselves as the Honor Code emphasizes. It’s
akin to cheating on a test even though we don’t
expect them to be expelled. We just want them to
know that it’s not the thing to do.” At this time,
the Campus Police are not involved.

In response to this act, the Art Department
and Visual Arts Center Staff have talked about
the problem of balancing the security of the art
with the open access to students and the public.
Nesbitt has also met with the work study students
who staff the Galleries to reiterate their responsi-
bility. Although the one person sitting in the Van
Every Gallery usually watches. both Galleries,

Hanan Ashrawi to
speak at Davidson

By Bitte Gipuz
College Relations

Hanan Ashrawi, the official Palestinian spokes-
person for the Middle East peace process, will speak
about her people’s cause at Davidson College on
Thursday, February 4. Her lec-
ture, entitled ‘Peace in the
Middle East: The Palestinian
Perspective,” is free to the pub-
lic, and it will begin at 8 p.m. in
Love Auditorium of Chambers
Building. It will be sponsored
by Davidson’s Public Lectures
Committee and is supported by
the Joseph T. Wearn Endow-
ment and will be immediately
followed by a public reception.

Dr. Ashrawi, who holds a
Ph.D. degree in medieval and
comparative literature at the
University of Virginia, is recog-
nized worldwide as the face and
voice of the Palestinian cause
fromher official duties and regu-
lar appearances on news pro-
grams. She is also recognized as a passionate propo-
nent of peace, as manifested in her positions as a
trustee for the International Human Rights Council,
the Palestine Center for Human Rights, the Carter
Center in Atlanta, and the American-based Study on
the Impact of Armed Conflict on Children.

Her distinguished career began as an educator.
She earned a bachelor’s degree in English literature
and a master’s degree in Renaissance literature from

College Communications

the American University of Beirut. She joined the
faculty of Birzeit University in- 1973, where she
established and chaired the department of English.
She remained on the faculty there until 1995,
including service as dean of its faculty of arts.

Ashrawi became a member of the Palestinian
council’s political committee in
1998 and a member of its diplo-
matic committee in 1990. She was
a member of the Palestinian lead-
ership committee and official
spokesperson of the Palestinian del-
egation to the Middle East peace
process in Madrid beginning in
1991. She was elected to the Pal-
estinian Legislative Council in
1996 as a representative from
Jerusalem, and was the only fe-
male (as well as the only Christian)
in Yasser Arafat’s cabinet. She
held the post of Palestinian minis-
terofhighereducationand research
but resigned that cabinet position
in August 1998 to protest Arafat’s
failure toeradicate government cor-
ruption. At that time she founded
“Mifah,” a Palestinian initiative for promotion of
global dialogue and democracy.

Dr. Ashrawi has also written several books
about Palestinian literature and politics. Her most
recent is This Side of Piece: A Personal Account,
which was published by Simon & Shusher in 1995.
She has received several honorary degrees from
universities around the world, as well as leadership
awards from international organizations.

Nesbitt said that the staff member on duty will be
walking between the Galleries more often and
making his or her presence known. She plans for

John A. Dunwoody 7]

the staff to continue monitoring who visits the
Galleries with the log book and counter.

The “Apashtology” exhibit features work
_about a “fictional culture” invented by artist
Beauvais Lyons, who is the Director of Hokes
Archives at the University of Tennessee in Knox-

ville. Nesbitt explained, “Beauvais Lyons is inter-
ested in confusing the audience, hoping to make
the audience think that it’s a real culture.” By
pairing the Apasht exhibition with the
genuine Mayan exhibition, Nesbitt said,
“I really wanted the audience to question
the Apasht.” The exhibition of the Cata--
logue of the Apasht Excavations, Vol-
ume II, consists of a hand printed litho-
graphic portfolio of twenty plates. The
plates claim to document excavations of
‘Lyons’ pretend culture in the Hindoo
Kush region of Afghanistan by French
archaeologist Andres Goddard Foucher
during the 1920's. Included in the port-
folio are text about the excavations, de-
pictions of the Apasht Creation Codex, a
site map, and other cultural information.
Lyons provided a replacement plate so
that the exhibition can continue as planned
until its closing date of February 5, Past
exhibitions at the Van Every and Smith
Galleries include the paintings of Chi-
cago artist Roger Brown, Pedro E.
Guerrero’s photographs of Frank Lloyd
Wright, and the work of Robert Colescott.
Nesbitt explained, “I try to find exhibits
that deal with issues that are relevant to
the campus in some way” as well as “to
create a balance in terms of media over
two or three years.” In choosing exhibi-
tions, Nesbitt wants “to meet the needs of
specific faculty and the art department in general.”
The Roger Brown exhibit complemented Dr. Ligo’s
seminar on Chicago architecture, and the Maya
show was curated by Dr. Ringle. Over 1,700
exhibition and lecture schedules are sent out each
semester to various places in the Southeast and the
United States.

he Davidsonian

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY
News Editors Business Manager Op-Ed Editor
CARRIE ARTHUR SCOTT REEDER SETH ALLEY’
ASHLEY E. KING Circulate Manager MELISSA ANN
Sports Editors. . EUGENIA LEATH nie, Sia
ALISON KALETT Advertising M Arts & Living Editors
MIKE ANDERSON BA Men agers SETH DAVIS
| Ayia Se KELLS HETHERINGTON
News Layout Editors
EVAN McCORMICK aoe Op-Ed Layout Editors
ELDER GWIN Head Copy Editors EVAN McCORMICK
WHITNEY BLAKE DAVID ROSENBERG
Sports Layout Editors ALLISON SISK
BEN COVINGTON Photo Editor
CADER HOWARD Ad Designers ANNA JUDY
; BEN COVINGTON
Web Editor CADER HOWARD Cartoonist
STEPHEN GAMBOA NATHANIEL LOTZE

Founded in 1914
“The Nation’s Foremost College Weekly”

Look for The Bavidsonian on the Internet soon,
the current site is in the process of being updated and brought’back online.

