THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 20, 1999

5

Davidson senior excels in political science essay contest

By Mari DE Fepe
College Communications

Julia R. Chemotti, a senior from Cedarburg,
WIL, recently won second place in the 1999 Private

tion of an international court system.
The contest, sponsored by the Americanism

school professors. Both sponsoring organizations
are non-profit foundations which stress the ben-
efits of the free enterprise system. Her second
place prize included a $1500 cash honorarium.
Chemotti, one of several thousand students

would create an international court system. In her
essay, entitled “The International Criminal Court:

lems not only in its formation, but also problems
of enforcement. She also addressed such issues
as the denial of civil liberties and the conse-
quences of attempting to replace other countries’
judicial systems.

an participates in the Dean Rusk Program in
International Studies.

Enterprise who en- Chemotti, a political science major at David-
EssayCon- . tered the son, was first attracted to the contest after taking
t t, . t- . Cc te t, oe . * .
ing on the Clhemotti, one of several thousand students who disap. aie iberics class which provided her a strong
inadvis- entered the contest, disapproved of a proposed treaty proved g Chemotti participates in a variety of activi-
ability of which would create an international court system. —_fapro- § ties at Davidson. She studied abroad in Bolivia
US. par- ; . posed . 5 with the School for International Training for a
ticipation treaty = semester, was as a member of the crew team,
in forma- which 8 sings with the Gospel Choir and Concert Choir,
2
S

Educational League and The Pilgrim Foundation,
was judged by a panel of economics and business

The Appropriate Vehicle for Delivering Justice?”
she stressed that such a system would create prob-

’

JOURNEY TO NICARAGUA.

Spring Break 2000

Dauidson United Methodist Church
G
The Office of the Chaplain

invite you to the

Information Session and Distribution of Applications

Tuesday, October. 5
10:00pm
Home Room of the Union

Questions, contact:

Rev. Andy Baxter Rev. Rob Spach Michelle Markey
892-8277, ext. 224 892-2420 896-6648

andy. baxter@juno.com rospach@davidson.edu mimarkey@davidson.edu

