THE DAVIDSONIAN

_MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 1999

Premedical society and AED starts new programs

By JT ToLentino
Staff Writer

The Premedical Society and Alpha Epsilon
Delta have an active semester planned for premed
students here at Davidson. In addition to the
normal meetings, they have introduced two new
programs aimed at expanding the scope of the
organization,

The,new Mentor Program is actually an
improvement of the old Mentor program. With
the new design, the program is aimed at new
freshman premed students and any sophomore or
junior still considering premed but remaining

Continued from front page:
arts mission.”

He said the station’s excellent reputation in
the public radio world and its mis-

sion to serve the arts community
attracted him to the position. In
addition, he and his wife, Judy,
look forward to living in the close-
knit community of Davidson and
relocating closer to Hodgson’ s par-
ents in Atlanta.

Hodgson has worked in non-
commercial radio since 1966, be-
ginning as producer of educational
programs for the University of
Chicago. He was program director
forthe nation’s first Native Ameri-
can owned radio station, KTDB in
Ramah, N.M., and managed sta-
tions for Minnesota Public Radio,
the University of Washington, and
WETA in Washington before join-
ing WAMU. During his tenure at
WAMU, the station budget grew
from $1 million to $6 million, the
number of supporting members
grew from 10,000 to 35,000, the
full-time professional staff more
than doubled to 43 people, and the
station built a new 10,000-square-
foot broadcast building. WAMU
now attracts more than 450,000
listeners a week, and produces more
than 15 hours of programming for
distribution to National Public
Radio member stations around the
country.

WDAV began programming
as a public service of the Trustees
of Davidson College in 1978. Un-
der John Clark’s direction since.
1981, it grew from a 20,000 watt
station whose signal barely reached
northern Charlotte to a 100,000
watt broadcast service that reaches
a 22-county area of the
Carolinas.

In addition to airing classical
music 24-hours a day, Classical
89.9 promotes cultural arts events
throughout the region on the air
and on its web site, in the monthly
programming magazine, through
co-sponsorship of events, and with
creation of new events like the
Music Listening Contest for young
music lovers. The ultimate expres-
sion of this philosophy occurred
during the station’s 20th anniver-
sary celebration last year. The sta-
tion commissioned a composition,
“Voice of the Wood,” from North
Carolina composer Russell Peck. .
The Charlotte: Symphony per-
formed the world premiere, which
was broadcast live locally by
WDAV and syndicated nationally.

Hodgson holds a master of
arts degree in speech-radio/TV/ |
film from the University of Wis-
consin and a bachelor’s degree in
drama from Antioch College.
When he is not working, he enjoys
reading, long walks and listening
to a wide variety of music. He
believes that, ideally, every day
should begin with a bit of Bach. He
and Judy have four grown chil-
dren.

somewhat unsure. The premed students signup for
groups of six to discuss the premed program at
Davidson, and topics such as MCATs and class
scheduling, with two mentors. The mentors are
premed upperclassmen who have agreed to lead
the sessions, and

who has an idea of a topic is welcome to lead a
discussion-group. The next meeting is set for 8:00
pm this Tuesday at Summit Coffee, and is open to
anyone who is interested. The articles for this
week’s Roundtable Discussion ‘can be found in

Mrs. Newman’s office

answer any ques-
tions students
may have, offer-
ing their own ex-
perience as one
example of a pre-

For information on the Mentor
Program, contact Melanie Majure ’00
at memajure @davidson.edu.

in the Preyer Building.

The Premedical
Society and AED also
have a number of meet-
ings lined up with guest
speakers from Davidson

med student. The
Mentor Program
is currently open to any premed student and to any
upperclassman interested in becoming a mentor.
The Roundtable Discussion is the other new
program developed for this year. Meeting every-
other Tuesday at Summit Coffee, the Roundtable
Discussion serves as a place for premed students to
discuss current medical ethical issues or medical
advances that are sometimes not discussed in class.
The discussion is led by a premed student who
chooses a topic and articles for the forum. Anyone

graduates currently in
medical fields and Ad-

mission Deans from various medical schools.
Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Director of the Pre-
medical Program, called this year a “North Caro-
lina Year” for Deans. The majority of deans
speaking this year will come from North Carolina

medical schools, such as Duke University and

East Carolina University. However, deans from
other medical schools outside of North Carolina
are scheduled to speak. These meetings with the

deans of medical schools are important because
they expose premed students to the various pro-
grams each medical school offers. Dean Lewis
Nelson from Wake Forest University will be the
next dean to visit Davidson. He is scheduled to
speak October 6" at 6:30 PM in the Carolina Inn.

A number of other speakers have been in-
vited to give talks to the Premedical Society on
various topics. Last Thursday, Davidson Alum-
nus Dr. Chuck Harris, a cardiologist from Wake
Forest University, spoke at the “Cookout with the
Cardiologist” about his experiences going from
Davidson to medical school, and his current re-
search in cardiology.

Any additional information about the Pre-
medical Society can be found on the web at their
homepage (http://www.med.davidson.edu/
PreMed/DCPMS) or by contacting Kelly Carter
‘00 at kecarter@davidson.edu, or Chase Coffey
‘00 at chcoffey @davidson.edu. For information
on the Mentor Program, contact Melanie Majure
*00 at memajure @ davidson.edu.

©Wachovia Corporation, 1999

