THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws _

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 22, 1999 ___

Student questions fielded at Griffith Street forum

President Bobby Vagt and
Physical Plant director Irvin
Brawley set out to clarify
issues surrounding the
college’s involvement in the

low-income housing along
Griffith Street.

By ANNA KVANVIG
Staff Writer

In an effort to clear up the facts and give
students a chance to ask questions about the Griffith
Street controversy, President Vagt and Associate
Director of Physical Plant Irvin Brawley partici-
pated in a Campus Forum. At 9:30 p.m. on
Monday, November 8", the 900 Room of the

Optimist
Park
warms the
hearts of —
Davidson
tutors

By Patrick BAETJER
Staff Writer

Every Monday, ten Davidson students bor-
row one of the vans from three until five in the
afternoon. The van takes the students into Char-
lotte to the Optimist Park neighborhood, specifi-
cally the Chapel of Christ the King Church.
Inside, the students, led by Ann-Colter Hosch *00,
spend a little over an hour helping elementary and
a few junior high children with their homework.
The children in ‘the program come from low-in-
come families primarily from an African-Ameri-
can neighborhood. Rebecca Nunan ’03, Jess Rich-
ter 03, Mary Stephens °03, Grace McCown '03,
Tracy Moore '03, Peter Martin ’00, and Jason King
*(02, help the children with reading and math. Last
week, students helped the kids with a word find and
math problems dealing with money. After forty
minutes of work, the Davidson students get to
participate in old-school recess out on the jungle
gym and on the swings. Rebecca Nunan distin-
guished herself last week by out jumping Rodjer,
one of the kids, from one of the swings. Jason, who
has an admirer, spent the afternoon cajoling her
into doing her homework. When it was time to go,
Grace McCown had to extract herself froma pile of
kids who were all determined to get a piggy-back
ride.

The Davidson students get a great deal of
satisfaction out of tutoring each week. They are
able to help out academically but play as well. Both
the kids and the students drag out the weekly good-
byes. Terrance, one of the children, refuses to let
them leave until he has a reassurance that they will
be back next week. Jason King practically has to
run from his young admirer when time is up.
Optimist Park provides an opportunity for David-
son students to help out in the Charlotte area but to
have funas well. If youare interested in joining this

group, you are encouraged to call Hosch at exten--

sion 6635.

WRITE FOR US,
PLEASE?
Cat Wes (x6810) or JoHN (x6625) FOR INFO.

College Union was packed with students and other
community members who wanted to hear the
President’s view on the situation.

Vagt and Brawley both emphasized that those
people who sold their homes to the college did so
of their own accord. “I have never been involved
in knocking on doors,” Brawley said.

Brawley also gave the attendees a brief history
of the residents of the homes that were moved and
destroyed. One woman, Linda Connor approached
Brawley about her home. She requested that her
house on Griffith Street be moved to another
location and given to her friend, Carrie Robinson.

Another house was used in a control burn for
Davidson Fire Department training. The burn was
quite a spectacle, Vagt noted. Families came out
to watch and have picnic lunches during the ‘show’.

The fact that the change on Griffith Street

_ took place during Fall Break aroused suspicion in

some students. However, Vagt told students that
the timing was due to the fact that Lingle Manor
had to be torn down during break and that the

greatest cost of such an endeavor is the mobiliza-
tion of the equipment. Therefore, it made sense to
do both projects at the same time.

After Vagt and Brawley spoke briefly, they
opened up the floor to questions. Many students
wanted to know more about the current condition
of the people who were moved. Brawley not only
gave second hand opinions (which were all posi-
tive), but he offered addresses and phone numbers
of the people so that students could find out for
themselves.

Another question that seemed to be of primary
concern was why the college wanted to move the

houses in the first place. Although there are no.

definite plans for the land Vagt said that the intent
is to keep the land green. He said that a green
entrance to the college would be better for attract-
ing prospective students. Elaine Baker ’03, how-
ever, asked if the college was trying to change the
type of students who applied and were admitted.
She and a number of others, judging by the ap-
plause in the room following her question, wanted

to know why the college would ever try to hide
such a vital part of the community of Davidson
when the college is committed to service.

Vagt responded by saying that he did not
want to change the students of Davidson Col-
lege, but it was important to take into account
first impressions of seventeen and eighteen year
old students who would be driving up to the
college for the first time.

As the forum ended, students left the Union
still talking about their own takes on the contro-
versy. Many were still not persuaded that the *
college’s actions were ethical, but they appreci-
ated Vagt and Brawley taking their time to give
them more information.

“T think very highly of Bobby Vagt for
taking the time to consider this issue with stu-
dents,” Emily Metzloff ’03 said. “However I
believe that he evaded many questions, and
ultimately he made a poor decision about the
houses on Griffith Street.”

The Admission and Financial Staff wishes to thank all the
students, faculty, and staff who have helped us meet and greet the
numerous prospective students and parents who visited throughout

this fall.

A special thanks to all those whose time and energy contributed
to the success of our two Discover Davidson programs this fall. You
helped us host nearly 1000 students and their families for those two

days.

We are grateful for your continued support of our work to add
another outstanding class to this community.
Best wishes for a happy holiday season!

Warren B. Buford III

Assistant Dean of Admission. and Financial Aid
Davidson College, www.davidson.edu

(704) 892-2698
1-800-768-0380

Internet start-up?

and a performance bonus.

Work for a Hot Internet Start-Up

Are you a born leader? Do you want to work for a hot

VarsityBooks.com is looking for student leaders from
colleges nationwide to become Lead Campus Reps.
As a paid member of our team, you will hire
and direct a staff to carry out VarsityBooks.com’s
marketing efforts on your Campus. —

Wondering what the pay is? Compensation
includes an hourly wage, stock options

| This job is a great way to earn money while
gaining valuable experience. |f you are
interested, send an e-mail with your name,
school and contact information to:
repinquiries@varsitybooks.com

varsitybooks.com

|| Corner of 1-77 & Exit 28

INNER HAIR CARE

01997 edt Detsion £21, Daren, CT OMZD-1005

Expert Hair Services
Relaxing Manicures & Pedicures
Soothing Facials
Complete Wax Hair Removal
Total Body Massage
Hydro-therapy room
Mon-Thu 9-8
Fri 9-7
Sat 9-5

895-0404

20430-2 Norman Crossing
Shopping Center

s aeeniaasienaiiaaniam

Cornelius

