P O
E

D

= 7 8

S

A »

Davidson 2, Clemson 0

By Anpy LANOHA
Staff Writer

In the closing minutes of Wednes-
day night’s season-opener between
Clemson University and Davidson Col-
lege, barely a whisper was heard from the
nearly 2,000 fans gathered.

All inclinations suggested the game
should have been an easy victory for the
Tigers. After all, Clemson had a higher
rating in the nation (4") than Davidson
had in the Southern Conference (5"). The
‘Cats were coming off a 5-16 season,
while the Tigers breezed through *98
with a 21-2 record. Furthermore, only
once before in school history had Clemson
fallen in a season-opener on their home
turf. :

But that’s why they play the games.

Davidson upset the fourth-ranked
Tigers in a nearly unprecedented defeat
for the Clemson men’s soccer program.

It may appear that the 2-0 stunner
was a classic David(son) versus Goliath
miracle; however, there was neither luck
nor divine intervention involved. The
*Cats simply outshot, outhustled, and out-
classed Clemson’s Tigers.

Davidson drew first blood in the closing
seconds of the first half: Chris Murray threw the
ball in to Dane. Erickson. Fully aware of the
waning clock, Erickson threatened to send a long
ball into the box, but instead chose to play the ball
down the left side to forward Dan Ford.

Ford lost his defénder near the top of the box
and took the ball to the end-line before hitting a
low and hard near-post cross. The defense shifted
toward the near-post where Chris Norbert was
closing in for the finish.

Instead, Norbert let the ball pass through to a
striding Lawrence Cann near the far-post, who
sent the ball into the back of the net. Describing the
play, Cann recalled, “It was easy...I just turned my
hips to the right side and pit itin.”

Cann, a senior this year and a strong leader on

the field, is a right fullback who plays tough ~

physical defense but also has the ability to go
forward and create on offense.
Nevertheless, it is a rare thing for a defender
to have that kind of opportunity. He said, “As a
defender, you don’t get too many chances like that,
so when you do, you got to put ‘em away.”
Davidson notched their second goal in the
54th minute when sophomore Chris Norbet headed
in a beautiful free kick from fellow sophomore
Paul Watson.
Consistent all night in free kicks and corners,

@ Wildcats celebrate victory over #4-ranked Clemson University.

Watson floated one to the back post from about 25
yards out., Norbet showed composure beyond his
years on the finish, sending the ball into the open
back post just beyond the reach of Clemson's
diving keeper.

After establishing the commanding lead,
Davidson never let up and never faltered under the
pressure.

‘When asked about the team’s mentality after
securing the lead, Head Coach Charlie Slagle
commented, “We couldn’t change what got us
there. We didn’t want to just hold a lead but
continue going forward, playing hard, and creat-
ing’chances.”

Despite leading in almost every vital statistic
(including fouls 25-11), Davidson’s defense still
had work to do. Junior David Buehler, playing at
sweeper for the first time this season, showed
leadership and composure as-he anchored the
shutout defense.

However, the real story of Davidson’s stal-
wart defense was the standout play of goalkeeper
Soren Johnson, a 63” freshman from Blowing
Rock, North Carolina. Tallying his first shutout in
his first regular season game, Johnson set a stan-
dard for excellence.

Late in the first half, with the game knotted 0-
0, Clemson created its most threatening chance of
the game. On a fast counter attack, a Tiger

Davidson 1, USC 0

Soccer stuns nation, earns #5 ranking

midfielder sent the ball through to a streaking
forward,

“He got the ball on his foot 12 yards out and
right in front,” described Johnson. “I came out
hard to close the angle and made a reaction save
with my left foot.”

Johnson joked, “That moron tried to go near
post on me — you cant go near post on me!”
Clearly this was a turning point in the game. After
this close call late in the half, Davidson rebounded
to score their first goal.

Senior defender, and goal scorer, Lawrence
Cann commented that the beauty of the game was
“not just that we won, but the way we won.”

Davidson built their strong performance
around an excellent work ethic, hard tackling, and
organization.

“We knew that if we won every 50/50 ball the
game would come to us, and it did,” said Cann.

However, it was more than desire that earned
Davidson the victory. In almost ever facet of the
game the ‘Cats dominated. They controlled the
ball when necessary and attacked at speed when
the opportunities presented themselves. Perhaps
most importantly of all, somehow amidst the exu-
berance of the upset, the ‘Cats kept level heads in
preparation for Saturday’s competition against the
#10-rated University of South Carolina.

Anna Judy

By Anpy LANOHA
Staff Writer

Already being touted as “giant kill-
ers,” Dayidson upset the South Carolina
Gamecocks in Columbia South Carolina
late Saturday night. ,

Davidson brought down its second

top ten team in four days, and also notched
its first victory on USC turf in school his-
tory.
; Once again Davidson has shocked the
country and proven to even the greatest
skeptics that perhaps indeed they are the
real thing.

Similar to the victory over Clemson,
Davidson earned its victory leading the
stats in posession, shots and corner kicks.

Having fought long and hard for 113
minutes, Davidson clinched the victory in
the second sudden death overtime as senior
Andrew Holbrook finished a bouncing ball
from six yards out.

Capturing victory through his physi-
cal play and determination in the box,
Holbrook’s game winning goal was a fit-
ting end to the hard fought and physical
contest. ’

Davidson and South Carolina scrapped all
game combining for 42 fouls and two yellow
cards.

In contrast to the fast pace and constant attack
in Wednesday night's contest, Saturday night was
primarily a defensive battle.

Once again, David Buehler made big game-
saving plays in the back and anchored the Davidson
defense which limited the Gamecocks to only
three threatening shots on frame.

“I knew they (South Carolina) were going to
have to do something pretty special to score and
they never really showed that ability,” said junior
Dane Erickson. “I felt that we were going to have
to find a way to score or we were going to play to
a scoreless tie.”

Though from the stands South Carolina ap-
peared quite capable of winning, Erickson’s con-
fidence represents what he feels his special about
this year’s team. “We are finally starting to put
together something that we always knew we had in
us.”

Most importantly, the team’s confidence is
not unfounded. Thanks to their as yet unparalleled
spirit, unity and work ethic, Davidson defeated
two powerful and high ranked teams this week.

Even more, they dominated on the scoreboard
and have shown themselves, as well as their sup-
porters, that maybe they shouldn’t be seen as
“giant killers” ...but as giants themselves,

Vin Judy

