_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Called “Stand Up Speak Out,” this program encouraged students to express their personal feelings

on Civil Rights or to read from Civil Rights material that they felt was poignant.

To begin the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday, a “Unity Prayer Breakfast” took place in the
Chambers Gallery at 8:00 in the morning. Reverend Charles White, Pastor of the Clover Parish of
the United Methodist Church located in Clover, SC delivered a speech to those who attended the

breakfast.

The next activity of the day was “King Day for Kids” which was meant to introduce children
from the community to the issues surrounding the MLK holiday. Attracted to the event by posters
around town and fliers sent to schools, the children who participated were all elementary school age,
ranging from 3rd to Sth graders. Various games, videos, and interactive projects helped to educate

the children about the meaning of Dr. King’s dream.

During lunch, the SGA sponsored “diversity dining” in Vail Commons. Lasting from 12:00

to 1:45 in the afternoon, this program. allowed students from different backgrounds to
exchange ideas about racial issues. In order to broaden students horizons, small groups were
placed randomly at a table and asked to discuss diversity. Ainsley Natta, President of the BSC,
said he felt such a program “helps for us to meet new people, to hear a new perspective.”

From 2:00 until 3:00 in the afternoon, the first session of a series of seminars occurred *

in the College Union. The three seminars in this session included speeches by Dr. Russell
Snapp, Dr. Susan Roberts, and Reverend Brenda Tapia.

Addressing controversial issues, Tapia’s seminar was entitled “Everything you wanted
to know about black people but were afraid to ask.” Tapia answered questions from the
audience, sharing her unique perspective on each issue at hand and encouraging students to
participate in the discussion. The questions asked pertained to a wide variety of issues,
ranging from African American hairstyles to racism in the Davidson community to the
questionable validity of stereotypes. In her opening statements Tapia had said, “I feel like one
of the biggest tests that God has given us as human beings is for us to realize that our
differences are not meant to polarize us.” With each question asked, Tapia seemed to reinforce
this idea.

A professor of history, Dr. Snapp’s seminar was called “Integrating African-American
history into the curriculum.” Dr. Roberts, a political science professor, led a seminar called
“A people’s participation: the voting rights act.”

A second session of seminars took place in the Union from 3:30 until 4:30 in the
afternoon, Dr. Sally McMillan of the history department and Dr. John Kuykendall of the
religion department organized the two seminars of this session. Kuykendall, who was
President of Davidson College before Robert Vagt, distributed copies of Dr. King’s famous
“A Letter From a Birmingham Jail” which the participants then read and discussed in groups

’ of about six people. McMillan discussed the role of African-American women in the history
of the United States.

The final activity of the day was an MLK Worship Service and Gospel Song Fest,
organized by Reverend Tapia. Students, faculty, and members of the Davidson community

gathered in Love Audito-
rium at 8:00 pm to cel-

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Brenda tapia

ebrate the spiritual aspects of Dr. King’s movement.

Many of those who helped to.ensure that no classes would be held on MLK
day felt that they were dedicating Monday, January 18th to raising awareness
of Dr. King’s dream of racial equality. Fisher said she hoped that even if students
did not participate in the events scheduled for the day, the recent action of the
administration would still have a positive impact by forcing students to “stop
and think why” they had received the day off. Natta expressed similar sentiments, saying “I hope that people don’t see it as another day off.
It’s an important day . . . people need to reflect why we need the day off.”

When asked if he thought Americans were close to achieving Dr. King’s dream, Jeffries said, “I think we’ ve made some strides, but I
personally think when we look at the overall picture, we still have a long way to go.” Natta, Fisher, and Tuttle all expressed similar feelings.
Jeffries thought that students at Davidson can take further steps toward the dream on an individual level. “One thing that would be a huge help
is if everyone assessed themselves personally,” Jeffries said. He felt that after students truly evaluate themselves, they can then challenge
thiemselves to act in the community. :

Reviewing the day, Jeffries said, “I think a lot of positive things happened today through this program.” He also commented that he hopes
students at Davidson can “build on our successes today and improve next year.” The decision of the administration to suspend classes during
the MLK holiday marked a precedent in Davidson’s history as a college and will probably become tradition in the years to come.

Davidson’s Watson Nominees

By RACHEL COckRILL
College Relations

Davidson’s third nominee also plans to study plants, but of
a different nature. Daniel Cooke, a double major in biology and

chemistry from Spokane, WA, proposes to study the traditional

Davidson College has selected four senior students as its
1998-99 nominees for Thomas J.
Watson Fellowships. The fellow-
ship program gives exceptional col-
lege graduates between $22,000 and
$3 1,000 to study a topic of particular
interest during a year of independent
study and travel abroad.

Davidson’ s four finalists (three
of the four, coincidentally, are room-
mates) were selected from 26
Davidson applicants. They now
move on to compete with nominees
from 49 other institutions for 60
available fellowships, which will be
announced by March 15, 1999.

Emily Setina, an English ma-
jor from Dallas, TX, hopes to study
Celtic poetry and photography. Trav-
elling to Wales, Northern Ireland
and Brittany, Setina would investi-
gate how these people have sought
to preserve their language and cul-
ture despite the predominance of En-
glish and American influences in
their land.

Cintra Pollack is an English
major from Denver, CO, who hopes
to study gardens around the world.
She will look at the ways gardens in
different countries reflect the archi-
tecture, philosophy and spirituality of particular cultures.

x

College Communications

use of four plants to enhance cognition and memory. Cooke

hopes to travel to rain forest re-
gions where these plants grow
and study their pharmacological
use by natives of those regions.
Elisabeth Malphurs is a religion
major from Jackson, MS, who
proposes studying monastic
communities. Traveling to
France, Nepal, India and Great

Britain, Malphurs would look at -

how these monks approach their
communal lives-of service and
personal sacrifice.

Since its founding 30 years ago
in 1968, the Watson Foundation
has awarded stipends totaling
approximately $22,000,000 to
nearly 2,000 Watson Fellowship

recipients, 560f whichhave been _

awarded to Davidson College
graduates. Winners in previous
years have traveled the world to
study topics such as ancient ship-
building techniques in Indone-
sia, bluehaired monkeys in West
Africa and flamenco dancing in
Spain and Brazil. Davidson cur-
rently has two graduates study-
ing on Watson Fellowships, one
looking at army ants around the

world and the other exploring the art of basket weaving.

College Communications

ollege Communications

Andy White

*

hey say it Of ly takes one

son to make a difference

