Laura McCanbDLisH
Staff Writer

Inconjunction with March’s Women’s Month,
F.L.A.G. (Friends of Lesbians and Gays) spon-
sored a sexuality forum in the Morrison Room of
the Union on March 30. Chair of the Women’s
Issues Committee. and F.L.A.G. member, Ann
Culp ’00 was the coordinator and mediator of the
forum. One student afterwards commented, “Ann
should be praised for her organizational and medi-
ating skills in the forum.”

The evening consisted of a question and an-
swer interactive presentation between the audi-
ence and a panel of four students and one faculty
member. The students included Eve Corbiere ’02,
a member of Turner House; Jim Stuntz 00, an
English major and poet; Matt Billings ’02, the new
F.L.A.G. Chair anda hopeful Gay Studies major (if
the Center for In-

“the other openly gay student.” He said, “I’m
more than a friend (in reference to F.L.A.G). I’m
areally good friend. But I want people to see that
I am just a regular Davidson student.” Williams
described himself as the professor with the big
rainbow flag in front of his house.

Culp next asked why most gay students at
Davidson are closeted. Stuntz first responded,
“It’s not an unfriendly atmosphere for gay stu-
dents, but it’s also not a friendly atmosphere. . .
It’s hard to be open at Davidson, but it is also hard
to be closeted.” Corbiere added, “People use the
word ‘gay’ to mean a big insult. But when you are
gay, you hear it differently and it is harder to come
out.” Billings also said, “We lack role models at
Davidson in faculty members, especially for
women. There are similar reasons why both
students and faculty are closeted though.”

An audience member then questioned the

presence of hostil-

terdisciplinary

Studies can meet .

hisrequest.):and My. experience has been more one of a
afemalemember tactful, polite combination of admiration

of the Class of
°02 who wished
toremainanony-
mous. Dr. Troy
Williams, a new
addition to the

andrespect... People often show acerebral
acceptance of homosexuality without
wanting to change their moral code that
says homosexuality is wrong.”

ity upon coming
out. Billings said, “I
haven’t faced any
verbal or physical
abuse, but I think
- there is some fear
of association with
me.” Stuntz hasn’t
experienced any
open hostility, but

German/Russian
department, also
sat on the panel.

Culp began by requesting that the audience
respect the confidentiality of the panel that evening,
as they would be revealing personal information.
Her first prepared question was “Why are you
speaking tonight?” Corbiere answered first: “Be-
cause I question my sexuality. A lot of people do,
but it is something that doesn’t get talked about a
lot. Especially here, in this conservative environ-
ment.” Stuntz then replied, “I am an openly gay
student at Davidson, but I haven’t been out the
whole time I have been here, so this is an issue of
my attention.” Billings responded, saying he is

said, “My experi-
; ence has been more
one of a tactful, polite combination of admiration
and respect .. . . People often show a cerebral
acceptance of homosexuality without wanting to
change their moral code that says homosexuality
is wrong.” Billings joked, “People believe that I
am going to hell, but still they say they respect
me.”

In response to experiences in the classroom,
Williams said, “I have had only positive experi-
ences with my students . . . they have showed
mostly homophilic rather than homophobic re-
sponses towards me.” ,

The panel also shared their experience with

Campus Police Blotter

By AsHLEY KING
News Editor

An employee of the College reported that
sometime between 11:30 p.m. on March 26th and
12:41 a.m. on March 27th, an unknown person(s)
removedan LCD projector from the College Union.
Bearing the name “Sharp,” the projector was not
secure and was also unattended at the time. Two
computer cables used as accessories were taken as
well. The estimated value of the projectoris $6,765.

On March 27th, officers Moore and Ramsey
were dispatched to Martin Court because of a
report of a loud party. On arrival, Sergeant Moore
dispersed a party that had gotten out of hand-at
senior apartment building B. Ramsey. also re-
sponded to a party in Hart, which soon dispersed.

Sometime between 9:00 a.m. on March 31st

and 2:00 a.m. on April Ist, an unknown person(s)
removed a student’s unsecured bike from the
front bike rack near Akers dorm by unknown
means. The missing bike is listed as being a
specialized brand, hardrock model, seven-speed
mountain bike that is black in color. The bike has
u-shaped handlebars. Value of the stolen bike was
listed at $200.

A student reported that sometime between.
1:00 p.m. on March 30th and 1 1:30 a.m. on April
2nd, .an unknown person(s) removed her unse-
cured bike from the front wall of Richardson
dormitory. The student further stated that a friend
had borrowed the bicycle and had left it against
the front wall of Richardson dormitory, and the
student failed to go out and secure the bicycle.
The bicycle is described as aneon-yellow Raleigh
Talon, valued at approximately $315.

includes “borrowing” another’s bike).

foot-traffic only.

months.

A message from
campus safety:
Bicycles on Campus

1.) Please make sure that you securely lock your bicycle after each use.
2.) Do not borrow someone else’s bike without asking them beforehand. It is a Code of
Responsibility violation to remove someone’s property without their permission to do so (this

3.) The town of Davidson maintains an ordinance that forbids bicycles to be riden on sidewalks
within the town-center. Please refrain from using the sidewalks in town, they are for pedestrian

4.) Any bicycles left around campus this summer (including those locked in the racks) will be
removed. Please make alternative arrangements to store your bicycle during the summer

LAG holds sexuality forum

sexual identity. Billings was semi-openly gay in
high school, but he chose to make friendships first
and then come out to people at Davidson. His
friends and family are very supportive of him, but
he hasn’t shared the news with his grandparents
yet. Billings also said his roommate has been great
about the whole thing. “If it comes up with people,

~

The panel then commented on how they
would like to see Davidson change. Billings
would like to see it become “a more sexually
relaxed place, with more openly gay. students.
Lives would be enhanced,” he said. Stuntz be-
lieved he was making a selfish request when he
hoped for “a representative gay population at

I talk about it,” he Davidson.”
said, “If it doesn’t, He - said,
I don’t. I’m not ; “The com-
proudtobegay,but_ Ng matter how much you intellectualize it, munity
it does give me a stays in your mind for a while. My personal °"4 ben-
sense of self-worth A Be efit with
tobe out at David- Beliefs have changed, but eternity is really a heightened
son.” formidable barrier.” awareness,

Williams but also be-
knew he was gay cause it is
since age nine but kind of

didn’t come out until he was 21. “When I told my
parents,” he said, “My dad threw up and my mom
made coffee.” He also said'that while he is gay,
that “everything is about context. It’s not such a
huge part of who I am.”

Corbiere first started questioning her sexual-
ity in the fifth grade. “Inthe gym locker room,” she
remembers, “One of my friends gave the statistic
that someone in the room would turn out to be gay.
My first reaction was, ‘Oh my God, it’s me.’” ‘At
this point, she considers her sexuality really flex-
ible. .

Stuntz first came out last fall. He had tried to
be who he wanted to be for many years, with a
string of former girlfriends, but it didn’t work. He
acknowledges religious problems with being gay.
“Whatever you hear in your childhood,” he said,
“No matter how much you intellectualize it, stays
in your mind fora while. My personal beliefs have
changed, but eternity is really a formidable bar-
rier.”

lonely.”

Billings also addressed the issue of the future
direction of F.L.A.G. “We just have fun,” he said,
“We would also like to have more women in-
volved, especially lesbians, and maintain a greater
visibility on campus.” Billings hopes F.L.A.G.
will work for partner benefits for faculty, a non-
discrimination clause on the Davidson applica-
tion, and efforts to resolve the college’s non-
discrimination clause With the Presbyterian
Church’s stance on homosexuality. He would also
like to place F.L.A.G. pamphlets in the admission
office to attract more gay students. Stuntz added
that more people are attending F.L.A.G. meetings
than ever before, which should also attract more
interested students to Davidson.

While the panel was still in the midst of
heated discussion, Culp was forced to close the
foruni due to time constraints. Many people
stayed and socialized afterwards when refresh-
ments were served.

The Davidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
CARRIE ARTHUR
ASHLEY E, KING

Sports Editors
MIKE ANDERSON
ALISON KALETT

Sports Layout Editors
BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Editors in Chief
JOHN A. DUNWOODY II

WESLEY H. GOLDSBERRY

Business Manager
SCOTT REEDER

Circulation Manager
EUGENIA LEATH

Advertising Managers
PETER CLARK
DAVID JOHNSTON

Head Copy Editors
WHITNEY BLAKE
BRENDA BONDESEN

' ALLISON SISK

Layout Editor
“KAREN SWEENEY

Ad Designers
‘BEN COVINGTON
CADER HOWARD

Op-Ed Editors
SETH ALLEY
MELISSA ANN
deCASTRIQUE

Arts & Living Editor
SETH DAVIS

Photo Editor
ANNA JUDY

Cartoonist
NATHANIEL LOTZE

. Founded in 1914
“Your Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Bavidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

