By Kaoiiy ASHOOH

Columnist

The most widely understood meaning of
the term “racial profiling” is when, for ex-
ample, a person of color is stopped while
driving acar or searched while walking down
a street, simply because of his or-her race. It
is not important what the person in question
is doing, rather it is important that a person of
the law for no other reason than physical
appearance interrupts that individual in his or
her activity.

Before I continue, I must ask the forgive-
ness of those who may feel that I am “seri-
ously limited in [my] ability to write a sensi-
tive and balanced article on the topic of”
racial profiling simply because it may appear
that I “will never have to face this difficult”
situation.

The reason that I offer my opinion on this

matter and others is that when I see what I
perceive to be a social injustice—no matter
what gender, race, or religion is involved—I
feel an obligation to speak out against it. And
racial profiling is an evil that has the ability to
touch every last one of us.

That said, it is important to note that there
are relatively few people who would not
decry racial profiling in its most understood
form. This issue reared its head more than
once during the presidential and vice-presi-
dential debates, and all four candidates are to
be commended for their responses condemn-
ing racial profiling. Itis absolutely abhorrent

that a person can be ‘arguted without prior
suspicion exclusively on account of the color
of his or her skin.

But racial profiling, a term that is nothing”
more than a contemporary media buzzword ~

for a form of racism or prejudice, has many
more meanings. Racial profiling occurs when
anyone is targeted for any reason simply
because of race. Considering this general
definition, racial profiling occurs much more
often in the United States than one might
think, and many more people are both guilty
of racial profiling and targets of it than one
might imagine.

. When the federal building in Oklahoma
City was blown up in April 1995, many
Americans instantly suspected Middle East-
ern perpetrators.

These Americans were guilty of racial pro-
filing. Since “terrorism” and “Arab” often
appear together in the same sentence, it has
become almost natural for Americans to as-
sociate a bomb going off with suspicion of an
Arab or a Muslim.

The media and pop culture are both respon-
sible for the perpetuation of this prejudice. In
some cases, the suspicion has proven true, as
it did in the World Trade Center attack. Yet
in Oklahoma City, the terrorist turned out to
be a non-Arab, non-Muslim American from

the Heartland. No matter, for the damage was

already done to the reputation of Arabs. Of-
ten, the very mention of our ethnic back-
ground arouses suspicion (far be it from me to
play victim, but my point remains valid).

from previous page
accepting and nonjudgmental atmosphere at
Davidson, we must start by making it com-
fortable for ALL students, minority or major-
ity, to hold their beliefs without an unpro-
voked assault.
John Pitts ‘04

Sexual harassment
warrants same
outrage as racism

Last year, someone cowardly scribbled a
racial slur on a poster in Belk residence hall.
In response, the Davidson community took

action against this unacceptable act of rac- _

ism. We addressed SGA, held forums, and
passed an amendment to the Code of Respon-
sibility. As a campus, we resolved that dis-
crimination will not be tolerated.

In recent weeks we have been confronted
once again with instances of hate. This time

it is not racism but sexism that threatens our -

campus. Opinions submitted to The
Davidsonian have repeatedly employed sex-
ist language and attitudes under the guise of
comic relief or political commentary. Fur-
thermore, several student responses posted in
Chambers gallery have added to an atmo-
sphere that can only be described as promot-
ing sexual harassment. |

I understand the importance of freedom of *

speech and curtailing censorship. The value
of differing viewpoints on controversial is-

sues such as politics and abortion is crucial in

maintaining an open and diverse campus
dialogue. Recent statements, however, do
more than express opinions. They use hateful
and offensive language that nullifies any in-
tended political messages.

My purpose in writing this piece is not
simply to express my disdain for the op-ed
submissions and the responses. Rather, I
want the entire Davidson community to un-
derstand the consequences of these words.
Sexism not only affects the immediate col-
lege- community, but the hundreds of pro-
spective students who read The Davidsonian
and tour our campus everyday. What would
a young woman considering Davidson think
when she read the words “slut” and “whore”

in a student publication or saw sexist lan-
guage in Chambers gallery? More impor-
tantly, what would that prospective student
think when she learned nothing was being
done about it?

My question to the Davidson community,
therefore, is what are we going to do in the
face of blatant sexual harassment? Are we
going to let a few individuals take the lead or
are we going to come together, once again,
and say that discrimination will not be toler-
ated? Last year, we boldly stated that hate has
no place on this campus. Why do we not
afford issues of gender the same-level of
outrage and action?

Alison Kalett ‘O1 |
Editor Emeritus:

Can’t you take a joke?

According to Webster’s Dictionary, a joke
is defined as, “Something not to be taken
seriously, a trivial: or trifling matter.” It
continues, “Generally today [a joke] suggests
humor that is light and sportive as banter.”

A joke is nota fact. It is not proving or
arguing anything...it is funny.

Recently, on the catkid.com website, “for
Davidson students by Davidson students,”
the joke of the day was apparently degrading
towards women. As a result, someone who
read the joke wrote it down and sent copies of
it toa number of faculty and students as well
as President Vagt. Shortly thereafter the
catkid.com website removed the entire joke
of the day section at the request of Davidson
College authorities.

Give mea break. If you don’t want to read
the joke, don’t click on the optional display
tab. If you read it and you don’t like it, send
in your opinion to catkid.com and your voice
will be heard. Don’t copy it down and send
it to more people than probably would have

seen it had it been left alone. If you were
“really so offended, then why spread it to

offend others? If you were really so con-
cerned with the well-being of humanity, then
why continue the vicious cycle of sexism and

"inequality on this campus?

As a female, I personally think it was
funny. But hey, I can take a joke.

Maggie McDougall ‘04

This racial profiling of Arabs is ie deeeaeus to

freedom in America, for it serves to spread

feelings of distrust and to sharpen our differ-
ences.

* Caucasians, and most often those referred
to as White Anglo-Saxon Protestants
(WASPS), can also find themselves the vic-
tims of racial profiling. This happened last
week on the Davidson College campus with
the release of the October 19 issue of Libertas.
An article entitled “Thick Surfaces” featured
pictures of forty white males, and it appears
that the reader is to assume that they are
Davidson students of a bygone era. The
authors of this article used these white males
to show that Davidson was for a long time not
aracially diverse campus, and they use their
words to argue, in their opinion, that it has
still not come far. This insensitive use of
innocent people’s photos is another example
of the racial profiling that serves to divide
rather than to unite. .

There is no difference between the racial
profiling of a black male in a car by a white
police officer and the racial profiling of the
forty white males in Libertas by the authors
of “Thick Surfaces.” In both cases, the per-
sons in question are not known to be guilty,
but because their race fits the preconceived
notion of the person in mind, they are-unfairly
targeted.

Another form of racial profiling, this one in
education, was addressed masterfully by
George W. Bush in the third presidential
debate. Governor Bush ' said that he was in
favor of “affirmative access” when it comes
to helping minorities. Short of being a dodge
from the question of whether he was for
affirmative action, Governor Bush’s response
was masterful. He used his experience as
chief executive in Texas to show that minori-

“ties can succeed without. affirmative action —

- when it comes to gaining admission to insti-

tutes of higher education. Affirmative action —
is another type of racial profiling. It presup- _

poses that because of someone’s race, that
person is at an immediate disadvantage when
it comes to college admissions because of a
supposedly inherent prejudice against him or
her. :

Proponents of affirmative action claim that
the policy helps to ensure fairness toward
minorities, but opponents correctly point out
that it often leads to what can only be called
reverse discrimination. In Governor Bush’s
Texas, all students who finish in the top ten
percent of their high school class automati-
cally become eligible for admission at the
Texas state college of their choice. This
eliminates the need for affirmative action and
takes the emphasis off of race and puts it onto
student performance, where it belongs. Gov-
ernor Bush’s “affirmative access” is the type
of positive step we need to combat all forms
of racial profiling in America today. By
sidestepping affirmative action in this way,
he has also sidestepped those who only talk
about getting something done.

There are no easy answers to racial profil-
ing. The cause is often not something that can
be cured by the actions of a politician or by
the wishes of a society. Almost all of us are
guilty of racial profiling in some form or
another. As concerned students, we should
attack those forms of racial profiling that are
most visible in our society while working
towards the end of racial profiling in all
forms. But most importantly, we need to be
strong enough to recognize that racial profil-
ing does indeed take many forms, and we
must emphatically decry this practice in all of
these varieties.

All Hallow’s Eve not what it used to be

By ANDREW MacDoNaALp
Columnist

According to the Encyclopedia Britannica,
Halloween began as an “Anglo-Saxon occa-
sion for one of the ancient fire festivals when
huge bonfires were set on hilltops to frighten
away evil spirits.” In the few millennia that
have passed, not all that much has changed.

‘This past weekend on the Court reminded
me of those ancient festivals when “ghosts,
witches, hobgoblins, black:cats, fairies, and
demons of all kinds [were] said to be roaming
about.” While I did not see as many hobgob-

lins and black cats as many a young Saxon.

may have, I did see the cast of characters from

_ the motion picture Scream stumbling about

as if possessed by some mystical potion that
dulled their senses.and increased their voices.

However, before anyone could make the
dramatic transformation from J. Crew to psy-
chotic ghoul, one would have had to purchase
a costume (at least I hope these people don’t
have this kind of stuff just lying around).

Finding the costume is where the problem
lies. You see, modern day Halloween cos-
tumes suck. They didn’t always suck. I can
remember fondly of earlier times where I
confronted neighbors with my devilish little
Pirate costume or when I appeared from the
darkness in a stunning rendition of a young
Indiana Jones. However, these halcyon days
are gone forever. :

Halloween has been ruined. After three
hours of searching through store after store
Friday afternoon, I came to a terrifying con-
clusion: there are no good costumes or props
anymore. That’s right, there were no swords
or guns, no eye-poker-outers, and not even a
single bludgeoning device!

Aisle after aisle and not evena single rapier
or pirate-gun was to be found. What little I did
find in the “death and dismemberment” realm
looked hopelessly fake. The few pitchforks

_and knives seemed better suited to a toy store

in the Toon Town of Roger Rabbit fame than
in the halls of that great cultural mecca, Wal-
Mart.

What has happened? The Halloween I re-
member was one based on realistic attention
to detail. You weren’t loved if your parents
didn’t spend hours creating and then dressing
you in the ultimate costume. Now, the real-
ism is gone. I couldn’t even find a cowboy
gun. All that I could find were space phasers
that made annoying sounds and looked like
they were out of some 1950’s B movie.

Granted, some might argue that our culture
has moved past the realist approach to Hal-
loween; and instead we are experimenting
with new sufreal and metaphysical styles. To
these people, I would say that they have spent
too much time in the VAC.

I lived through the terrible years of “let’s
dress Andrew up as a Pumpkin, he’ll be so
cute,” and I survived the Power Ranger phase
of the early 90’s. But I cannot let this lack of
originality go on any further! Who wants to
live in a society where every kid appears ina
generic waste of fabric and plastic? It is the
degradation of America when so little time
and effort is put into Halloween apparel and
accoutrements. Sure, you can say that it is
only a stupid Halloween costume. But how
long will it be before the laxity in costumes

. becomes a laxity in homework, then in work,

then in life?

Note: Andrew reserves the right to mis-
quote the Encyclopedia Britannica (as wellas |
other reference books). The view described
in this article does not represent those of the
Encyclopedia, the Anglo-Saxon race, or Wal-
Mart. And it does not represent the beliefs
held by the Soviet Socialist Workers of |
America who think that all-Halloween cos-
tumes should be olive-colored with Stalin
masks so that there is no exploitation of the
middle class by _——7 — in
Scream masks.
