2 sa _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

THURSDAY, MARCH 2, 2000

Learning. from page 1.

an incredible gift—an incredible “Ability to
think outside the box. Students with learning
disabilities are commonly very creative and
because of their creativity, they can offer
fresh new insights to Davidson Campus.”
However, either because of their gifts or
because of their challenges, many students
with learning disabilities face difficult chal-
lenges—both academically and socially.
“We're all alone here,” he says. Gravel
describes having been the butt of well-inten-

tioned jokes from friends and classmates
alike. “I laugh it off, because I’ ve dealt with
it all my life. But deep down inside, it makes
us feel different.”

Even the term “learning disability” sug-
gests that such students are incapable of keep-
ing up with their peers. But a college pam-
phlet describes learning disabilities as central
nervous system disorders that affect indi-
viduals “with normal to above-average intel-
ligence.”

A learning disability does not affect an
individual’s internal thought and deduction

processes, explains Gravel, but rather their
abilities to harmonize with the outside world.
“It’s a lot like being near- or far-sighted,”
says Gravel, “if you don’t account for it, you
can’t focus on the same point as people around
you.”

The effects of learning disabilities tran-
scend beyond the classroom. In a pamphlet
entitled “The Other Sixteen Hours,” the Orton
Dyslexia Society describes a multitude of
potential problems with peers and at home.
Some-of these are deep-rooted self-confi-
dence issues that arise from early-education

struggles, while others are just plain every-
day inconveniences. The pamphlet describes
a student who once received a perfect score
on the Graduate Record Exam in mathemat-
ics, but could not remember his best friends’
phone numbers.

Gravel hopes this panel will serve to
enlighten all students and staff at Davidson.
“We hope that this panel will help students
and faculty appreciate the challenge and un-
derstand the gifts of those of us with learning
disabilities.”

present.

A oied ii impairment in word recognition skills a ccatifas
comprehension that significantly interferes with academic
achievement or daily living activities requiring reading skills.
Oral reading is characterized: by slow, halting reading, word
phrase omissions, distortions and word substitution. Deficits in
expressive nate and su ese discrimination ney also be

Source: Diagnostic aud Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,
American Psychiatric Association

etc. .

Marked by inappropriate degrees of inattention, impulsivity and
hyper-activity. It may appear as inability to stay focused on task
for average amounts of time, impulsive behavior, speaking out in
class, difficulty with organizing work, inability to focus and
complete test and/or homework, difficulty following directions,

Source: Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders,

Students help repair Floyd’s destruction in Princeville

By Casey SAMs
Staff Writer

It’s been six months since Hurricane
Floyd ravaged eastern North Carolina, but
the damage has yet to be repaired.

Amidst the destruction, however, one
positive byproduct has appeared—a helping
hand that has reached across the boundaries
of race and age: people volunteering money,
supplies, and time to help those in trouble.

Davidson College contributed several
truckloads worth of supplies to ease the short-
age. Buta handful of Davidson students and
physical plant employees have taken their
efforts a step farther: rebuilding a hurricane-

thrashed house in Princeville, N.C.

In 1985, Princeville became one of the
first incorporated African-American towns
in the country: One house in this community
was struck particularly hard by the winds and
rain of the hurricane. Five generations of
women called this one-story brick house their
home. But for ten days, four feet of water
soaked the home’s interior—ruining floors
and walls and entrenching the home with
mold and mildew.

The state government offered a small
disaster relief package, but the aid was insuf-
ficient to restore the inhabitable edifice. But
a handful of students and staff members from
North Carolina Wesleyan and Davidson Col-

OFFI

RING ¢

COMvMirbliier :

FC~COMMUNICATIONS

SERVING NORTH MECK
& SOUTH IREDELL
SINCE 1997

SOMPLE”

COMPUTER SALES, SERVICE, SUPPLIES, TRAINING, INTERNET
SERVICES, DIGITAL CAMERAS, SATELLITE TV SYSTEMS,
HOME/SMALL OFFICE NETWORKING

Le

LT LOCOS

lege stepped up to the challenge of restoring
the home.

Davidson’s efforts have been spear-
headed by Gwen Gardner, the bookstore
manager, Ruth Pittard and Rosie Molinary of
the Community Service office, and Irwin
Brawley of the physical plant. .

Those four, plus ten other staff members
and about 20 students have given up at least
four weekends to make the renovation suc-
cessful, leaving Friday afternoon and not
returning until late Sunday night.

Until just three weeks ago, the house had
not even completely dried. Since that time,
the heating and air conditioning has been
installed, the floors are down, and the walls

and sheetrock are about to be put up. Despite
the short amount of time spent on this project,
the work is being completed with an astonish-
ing alacrity.

The work team is planning one final trip
to Princeville, over the weekend of March 17
and 18.

The residents of Princeville would like
to extend their heartfelt thanks to the gener-
ous efforts of the college’s physical plant
staff.

Many helpful hands are needed for the
completion of the house, and anyone inter-
ested in helping for the weekend can contact
Rosie Molinary at x2298.

we throw all kinds of

lobstacles

at you.

tuition isn’t. one of then.

WE COME TO You!

FREE INHIOME/ OFFICE CONSULTATIONS,
FREE DELIVERY, FREE SYSTEM SETUP ON
ALL SYSTEMS! GUARANTEED LOW PRICES!

CALL US AT

(7O4)662-6650

OR VISIT OUR WEB PORTAL AT:

WWW.HANDTECH.COM/FCCOM
EMAIL: FCCOM@HANDTECH.COM.-

t

Sure, we'll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for
‘a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won't
have to worry about. Talk to. an Army ROTC rep. And get a
leg up on your future.

For details visit our office at Jackson Court #7 or call 892-2165.
Two.and three year scholarship opportunities available.
