2. Tue Davipsonian

“We should not, however, be complacent.
We should always realize that to continue
to attract the best faculty and the best
students will take effort and time. And
we need to nurture an environment that
each group will find appealing.”

—Dr. Clark Ross

Departures, fro page 1.

encountered a situation where a faculty member wanted to
stay at Davidson but was leaving for a comparable position at
a similar school that was paying more money.”

Despite the aggressive efforts to better compensate the
faculty, Davidson professors are far from the best paid in the
business. A survey published recently in the Chronicle of
Higher Education showed that the average assistant (gener-
ally entry-level) professor at Davidson pulled in an average of
$44,100 in 1999-2000. Professors with similar experience
earned $59,000 at Duke, $52,800 at Amherst, $51,600 at
Swarthmore, and $47,900 at Wake Forest.

Much of this disparity can be attributed to the size of
Davidson’s endowment. Although the fund has grown by
leaps and bounds over recent years, Davidson’s war chest (at
a little over $300 million) is still meager in comparison with
some competitors like Washington & Lee and Williams.
Despite Davidson’s 1999 rating of | L overall, U.S. News
ranked the North Carolina college 32™ in financial resources
amongst national liberal arts colleges—while schools like
Occidental College, rated 40" overall, boasts substantially
greater financial resources.

What to make of it.

It is important to note that, in spite of some underlying
dissatisfactions, most all faculty describe Davidson as a
wonderful place to work, teach, live and study.

Every departing professor that spoke with The
Davidsonian described his or her experience here as an
overwhelmingly positive one. “I really like the Davidson
students,” said Dr. Mele. “They’re terrific to teach, but
they’re also terrific people.”

Though the loss of any professor is untoward, it should
be noted that as many as 200 applicants typically apply for
every vacancy on the Davidson faculty.

Professors and administrators alike hope to conduct an
extensive survey to establish whether Davidson’s departure
rate should be a growing concern, or merely an expected
fluctuation within a nationwide trend.

“The nightmare scenario would be the Milwaukee Brew-
ers Syndrome,” explains Dr. Menkhaus, “where we recruit
and develop young faculty only to have the finest ones
plucked away by the New York Yankees.”

But, backed by all accounts, Dr. Menkhaus notes that
Davidson is far from that state.

The college remains an intellectual juggernaut at the
forefront of its field—continuing to attract and retain some of
the finest faculty in the market and comparably talented
students. .

“We should not, however, be complacent. We should
always realize that to continue to attract the best faculty and
the best students will take effort and time,” said Dr. Ross.
‘And we need to nurture an environment that each group will
find appealing.”

Davidson Town Day 5-K

News : : : Tarnshay, May 4, 2000

Salaries on rise; but various
issues impact faculty satisfaction

AVERAGE PAY RAISES FOR 2000-2001

Rank _ Mean Inc. % 2000-2001 Mean
Full Professors ‘6.0% $80,264
Associate 8.3% $58,834
Assistant: 9.8% $48,086

Natl. Average Faculty Pay Increase for 1999-2000: 3.7%

COLLEGE OVERALL RANK FINANCIAL RESOURCES RANK
Swarthmore Ist 2nd

Amherst 2nd 6th

Williams 3rd 7th

Wellesley 4th Ist

Davidson 11th 32nd

Washington & Lee 14th 31st

Sewanee 25th 20th

Occidental 40th 24th

Sources: Dean of the Faculty; Chronicle for Higher

‘ Education, U.S. News & World Report
LE TR MIO EIS EIT SE SSIES YI TES ET I Ee SL LT ES ET SL LE ET EE
By Mike ANDERSON

their families. With entry-level professors making slightly
Editor-in-Chief

over $40,000 a year, even the most modest homes in
increasingly pricey Davidson are out of reach. And living
in the quaint community is a_major draw for faculty
members, especially: those with children. “Soon you'll
have to be married to a physician in order to afford a house
here,” quipped one.

In order to help accommodate younger professors, the
college owns some houses that non-tenured faculty may
rent at affordable rates. But still, some young professors
can not afford to invest in the purchase of a home near the
college.

While Davidson has made great strides at redressing
salary disparities for the college’s faculty, many professors
point out that pressing faculty issues extend far beyond
dollars and cents.

Faculty here describe an immense pride and joy that
they derive from working at the prestigious teaching-ori-
ented college. But still they cite some sacrifices that are
made to teach at Davidson, ranging from overwhelming
extracurricular demands to a lack of affordable housing
near campus.

Professors at Davidson must juggle far greater aca-
demic and co-curricular demands than their counterparts at
some other universities. Most faculty members are required
to teach five courses each year—while faculty at research-
oriented universities often teach as few as one or two classes
a year.

Furthermore, Davidson’s emphasis on student-faculty
interaction further taxes a professor’s time. Professors are
expected to become active members of the community—
serving on committees, maintaining extensive office hours,
attending an array of campus activities, and advising stu-
dent organizations.

All the while, the changing face of American families
has further contributed to the drain on a faculty member’s
time. Far fewer professors have a spouse at home to choreo-
graph the intricacies of child-raising and household-man-
agement. The prevalence of these working families is
making old-fashioned Davidson traditions (like staying late
on campus and having students over for dinner) increas-
ingly more difficult to fulfill. Says Dr. Rigger, whose
husband works as a journalist, “It’s not like we have wives
who spend all day fixing the lasagna.”

A lack of affordable housing in Davidson is also
contributing to a financial squeeze for young professors and

Research at a liberal arts college.

In light of the tremendous demands on faculty time at
Davidson, the first thing to suffer is often their own
research endeavors. To many professors, prominent re-
search and publishing is still a high priority. “If you’re to
be respected in your field,” says Dr. Rigger, “you have to
be known by the quality of your research.”

And faculty members who forgo their own research
often find it increasingly difficult to find future pasitions
should they ever leave Davidson. “Unfortunately, profes-
sors with strong teaching credentials but relatively weak
research records are generally unmarketable outside the
college,” explains Dr. Menkhaus. “Young faculty are not
unaware of this fact.”

Faculty and administrators alike describe the balance
between classroom-emphasis and individual research as a
constant juggling act—one that is a challenge for all liberal
arts colleges that attract top-rated professors.

“The quality of the education here is absolutely excel-
lent,” said Ross. “But it essential that our compensation
package to faculty continue to be competitive, because we
ask some of the nation’s finest faculty to make a strong
commitment to the teaching mission of Davidson Col-
lege.”

Return completed f pres ict ee All proceeds benefit the
Dr. Susan Robert 4 decease hay Sa Davidson-Cornelius Day
(Chambers 329-C) Davidson, N¢ Care Center
Advance registration 5K: Registration Form: DAVIDSON TOWN DAY 5 K
$15.00 NAME PHONE:
: ADDRESS:
Race day registration 5K: AGE: CIRCLE:IMALE FEMALE 5K  FUNRUN
$18.00 T-Shirt size (circle) Small Medium Large X-Large
Enclosed = entry fee of $__. . Checks to North Mecklenburg Child Dev. Association
‘ To eae In consideration of the acceptance of this entry to the Davidson Town Day 5K/Fun Run, | waive all claims for myself, my heirs. and
___Fun Run with t-shirt: assigns against, and I hereby release the sponsors and officials of the Davidson Town Day 5K/Fun Run from any liability arising from
‘$8.00 illness, injury, or death ] may suffer which may result from my participation in this event or traveling to or from this even. 1 further stat
Withouth t-shirt: that I am physically fit and sufficiently trained for these events. tei
$4 00 . Runner's signature: Parent's signature if under 18:

