‘THe Davinsontan.

Gore’s education agenda: A test of national responsi sibili

By SEAN Brooks AND BEN TERESA
Special Contributors

“Public education is the cornerstone of our
nation’s democracy and the basis of our pros-
perity,” asserts Democratic presidential can-
didate Al Gore, underlining the importance
of public education and his belief in anational
responsibility to provide high quality public
education.

While Al Gore supports public school
choice and competition, he is an opponent of
school vouchers: “vouchers. ..drain our pub-
lic schools of funding for children who need
it the most—those who can not afford to go to
a private school. I am strongly committed to
bringing truly revolutionary change to our
public schools.”

In addition to a touted dedication to im-
proving and not abandoning failing public
schools, Gore proposes to hold teachers to
high professional standards, to invest more in
early education and after school programs,

and to make higher education more afford-
able.

Gore’s agenda includes holding states and
schools accountable for results, as each state
would be required to identify failing schools
and work to improve them.

Every student in_a failing school would
have the opportunity to transfer to another
public school or have after school help so the
student would not fall behind while the school
is improved. The plan calls for the reopening
of the school under new leadership with a
record of success or reopening possibly as‘a
charter school.

Gore believes, “Public school choice and
competition are essential if we want to push
schools to the highest possible levels of ex-
cellence in education,” which he hopes to

accomplish through his plan of public school .

choice and increased charter schools.

The educational plan includes higher stan-
dards and accountability for teachers as well:
“We should treat teachers like professionals
- we should pay them like professionals - and

we should hold them to high professional
standards.” The plan calls for every new
teacher to be tested and meet a high standard
before entering the workforce. To r&ceive
federal funding under Title I, every class-
room must have a qualified teacher by 2004,
and under Gore’s higher standards/higher
pay initiative low performing teachers would
be improved or removed.

Gore proposes $115 billion in increased
funding for early education programs and
childcare. By 2002 he projects to expand the
head start program by 950,000 children.
Under his plan funding would also go to-
wards preschool with a “developmentally
appropriate curricula that prepare children
for success in reading and in school.” Gore
emphasizes that “studies show that invest-
ment in early education pays tremendous
benefits in terms of higher IQ’s, higher read-
ing and achievement levels, higher gradua-
tion rates and greater success in the work-
place.”

Included in the educational agenda are
elements to make higher education more af- _
fordable. The College Opportunity Tax Cut
would allow for a tax deduction on tuition,
while the proposed 401(j) accounts would
allow the saving of money free from taxation
for continued education.

Gore clearly stresses that his plan is not to

abandon the public school system, but to hold
it accountable for improvement.
_ Gore’s running mate, Joseph Lieberman
comments on the accountability for perfor-
mance element of Gore’s agenda, “The plan
put forward by the Vice President today pro-
vides a bold strategy to help America meet
this goal by creating a tough, comprehensive
accountability system...It would give states
and local districts considerable support to
help lift up failing schools and raise academic
achievement, but it would at the end of the
day demand that our educators produce re-
sults.”

Bush calls for greater accountability, greater freedom of choice

By Lee ANN Petry
Special Contributor

Martin Luther King, Jr. once said, “Intelli-
gence is not enough. Intelligence plus charac-
ter - that is the true goal of education.” Be-
lieving this to be the ideal of the American
educational system, Governor George W.
Bush has committed himself to reforming the
national public school system.

A self-proclaimed optimist, Bush feels that
the prosperity of the United States is directly
linked to the education of young men and
women with the necessary skills and charac-
ter to succeed. By creating this “culture of
achievement,” Bush has agreed to limit the

federal government’s role in education to ~

ensure that the children, instead of the educa-
tional system itself, are properly served by
federal money and decision-making.

Included in this academic reform is Bush’s
goal of enhancing moral education in the
classroom so that students will cultivate and
adhere to morals that will guide in their
discernment of right and wrong.

Bush is credited with successful educa-
* tional reform in Texas and hopes to imple-
ment similar types of reform at the national

level. His main objectives of educational

"reform are aimed at reducing federal govern-
ment in the local education system, at provid-
ing equal educational opportunities for un-
derprivileged children, and at developing a
state administered test used to measure a
student’s skill and level of competency.

First, Bush wants to narrow the achieve-
ment gap at the national level between chil-
dren from low-income families and their con-
temporaries. His proposal is to permit low-
income students at a consistently failing school
to attend a different public school or to allo-
cate part of their federal funding to pay for a
different educational option (tutor, charter
school, etc).

Additionally, he suggests extending the
Pell Grant to.low-income students excelling
in high school math and science courses,
establishing a $1 billion Math and Science
Partnership to. bolster math and science edu-
cation at the state and university level, and a
$3 billion Education Technology Fund to
optimize students’ use of technological re-
sources to enhance their education.

Second, Bush strives to guarantee that all
children will be literate by the 3rd grade. His
“Reading First” program and his reform of
Head Start programs are designed to accom-
plish this goal.

Third, he wants to make schools more
accountable for their performance by restor-
ing local control of the school systems. With
this accountability comes the expectation that
schools will set high standards for them-
selves and have greater liberty to fulfill those
standards.

Consequently, the national government
expects each state to develop its own testing
system as a way to measure student compre-
hension and skill in reading and mathematics.
Bush proposes setting up a $500 million fund
to reward schools with improved student
scholastic performance, with the consequence

that schools in decline will lose part of their

state distributed federal funding. Bush
also favors increased funding for special edu-
cation programs in compliance with the Dis-
abilities Education Act. These standards will
encourage more schools to provide better
services for its students.

Fourth, Bush stated that he thought parents

should actively seek out and choose from
among the variety of available options of
which school to send their child, from kinder-
garten to college. By doubling the number of
charter schools.and by exempting taxes on

funds withdrawn to pay for kindergarten

through college expenses, Bush seeks to pro-
vide sufficient opportunities for parents to

UCA urges students to vote

By RICHARD VINSON
‘Editor-in-chief

As the election approaches, students at
Davidson are already busily campaigning.

- These activists, however, will not be advo-
_cating tighter environmental controls or the
merits of free trade. In fact, they don’ t care
who you vote for.

Members of United Community Action:

(UCA) are distributing information for first-
time voters and for users of absentee ballots
this Thursday from 10- 2 in ehninbers Gal-

lery.
-UCA is publicizing two websites,

election.com and rockthevote.org. From these
sites, users can download voter registration
forms and absentee ballots.

Ida Wainschel ‘01, UCA member, empha-
sized the importance of student participation
in this particular election. “I’ve read that this
presidential race is going to be the closest one
in along time. I think voters our age, particu-
larly students, are going to sway the decision
if they participate in the election.”

She also stressed the time constraints fac-
ing first-time voters. In some states the
deadline for registration could fall as early as
September 15.

make a wise choice on where to send their
children.

Fifth, the enactment of a teacher account-
ability system and the allocation of $2.4 bil-
lion to fund state recruitment and training
programs demonstrates Bush’s belief in
strong, intelligent teachers who will provide
students with- academic.and moral guidance
and education. Increased resources will im-
prove teacher quality, allow for the develop-
ment of “at-risk” youth schools, and increase
creation of charter schools. Furthermore,
Bush allocated $1.7 billion to assist local
school districts in constructing in excess of
$5 billion worth of new classroom facilities.

Finally, Bush promises to enforce juvenile
gun laws for safer school environments that
enable students to learn and not come to
school in fear.

Bush aspires to see educational standards -
rise so that more students gain access to better
academic facilities and so that children from
low-income families have comparable edu-
cation opportunities available to them.

By instilling an appreciation for education
and by promoting development of a moral
character, Bush is reforming the public school
system to produce citizens equipped with
intelligence and with character.

continued from previous page

Loh: Don’t bother

moment of anger, Wesley scalps Del in plain
view of the camera. It is a disgusting moment,

‘and what it is doing in a comedy, who knows.

It wouldn’t be funny even if Nurse Betty were
a dark comedy, which it is not, despite what
you may.read. For a scalping to be funny, any
scalping, it would have to be in a movie that
is way over the top, a movie like American

Psycho. And Nurse Betty isn’t over the top.

Having witnessed the scalping, Betty is
traumatized, and she packs her bags and
heads to California in search of Dr. Ravell
(Greg Kinnear), a fictional character on a
soap opera. Betty is in love with him, and her
trauma causes her to think Dr. Ravell and his
television show are real.

At the same time, back in Kansas, the hit
men begin searching for Betty for two rea-
sons. First, unknown to Betty, her car is full
of drugs. Second, Charlie has fallen in love
with Betty. . Eventually, all the important
characters and unimportant characters wind
up in Los Angeles for a nice, tidy conclusion.

Wrapped up in the plot is an interesting
parallel between Charlie - the mean, yet pro-
fessional, soon-to-be retired hit man - and
Betty - the gentle, graceful nurse. Both
Charlie and Betty have fallen in love with
idealized characters. Betty loves the fictional
Dr. Ravell, and Charlie loves his romanti-
cized version of Betty, who would never fall
for a soap star. This comparison is the heart
of Nurse Betty.

Indeed, the movie is interesting and smarter
than most films. But itis disjointed. The tone
of the movie is off. Thére are jokes that a
child could laugh at, and then there are jokes
most adults would not understand. There are
scenes that are violent and others that are so
gentle that pretentious melodramatic music
plays in the background. Violence, gentle

_ comedy, vulgarity, and gore can exist in the

same movie and work. The Coens’ Fargo is
a wonderful example. Nurse Betty is not.

LaBute, a playwright and director, made
one of the best films I have ever seen - Jn the
Company of Men. With Nurse Betty his
standard has been lowered abit. Yes, Morgan
Freeman and Renee Zellweger deserve much
praise for their work in this film, but as for the
film as a whole and it’s screenplay, which
won a prize at Cannes, they simply miss the
mark.

Joslin: Don’t miss it

“The intricate layering of the plot and the
depth of the characters within Nurse Betty
intrigued me. Appropriately, the credit has
already been bestowed on its deserving writ-
ers. Neil LaBute’s screenplay for Nurse Betty

won the “Best Screenplay” at the Cannes

Film Festival this year. The plot is unpredict-

‘able and engaging as well as inventive and

quick-witted. Also, the performances by.
Zellweger, Freeman, and Rock are a must-
see, =

Zellweger brings a naiveté and believabil-
ity to the role of Betty, the devoted house-
wife. It is difficult not to sympathize with her
after the way her chauvinistic husband treats
her. I certainly can’t blame her for falling in -
love with a soap opera character! At least Dr.
David Ravell exhibits some ounce of de-
cency. (Even if he is completely fictitious.)

The casting of Freeman and Rock puzzled
me at first, but I realized the reason why it was
done. Freeman’s subtlety created an interest-
ing balance because Rock, who is known for
his obnoxious style of comedy, did not seem
to be as abrasive as usual. This duo exuded an
energetic chemistry that surprised me.

Nurse Betty is arefreshing change from the
formulaic blockbusters that have come out
over the summer, so don’t miss this film!
