_, Tur Davinsonian

CH Boe

x

Pagid A epee a

Language Resource

Se RE SNRE? SPer #BeG

nter

provides high-tech instruction

By Jowannes Nortinc
Staff Writer

Tucked away on the Union side of the
Chambers basement, the newly renovated
Language Resource Center (LRC) offers stu-
dents an array of foreign language opportuni-
ties in a computer-oriented environment.

The lab was previously a listening center
containing traditional audio equipment. How-
ever, in recent years, the foreign language
faculty began to see a need for a more high-
tech facility, and many toured other colleges
to explore the possibilities. The foreign lan-
guage faculty also applied for a financial
grant and carried out a capital project to fund
the lab.

‘In the fall of 1999, renovations began. The
space was completely remodeled and rewired
to be able to maintain the incoming collection
of new technology. The LRC became fully
functional in January 2000.

LRC Director Dr. Peter Janssens has been
responsible for installing and maintaining all
aspects of the language lab, namely, the physi-
cal center and its online functions.

The lab contains an impressive array of
computing equipment. In the largest room, a
combination computer lab and classroom,
new Macintosh G4 computers line the walls,
and video projection equipment is available
at the front of the room. Foreign language
classes often meet in this room to use its
multimedia capabilities not available upstairs

in Chambers. However, the room is also open
at times for foreign language students to use
outside of a scheduled class.

The faculty development room also plays'4
large part in the lab. Using both state-of-the-
art computers and conventional audio/visual
equipment, such as a turntable and stereo, Dr.
Janssens, student workers, and faculty mem-
bers create new materials in digital format.
The media is then loaded onto a server which
students can access over the campus network.

Through the campus network, students can
then utilize an array of information, audio,
and video related to foreign languages with-
out ever operating a VCR or tape player. For
example, over the website, students can watch
the Spanish instructional series Destinos or
watch a Russian news broadcast.

The LRC is achieving its larger purpose of
integrating new technology with the foreign
languages. Anentirely Macintosh-based sys-
tem, the LRC is, in part, an instructional
technological facility.

As Dr. Janssens noted, “focus on the inte-
gration of technology is becoming increas-
ingly important” in colleges and universities
today.

The new LRC offers the foreign language
departments one more tool on this increas-
ingly wired campus.

To access the LRC website, simply go to
http://www.davidson.edu, click on “academ-
ics”, and then click on “Language Resource
Center.”

DAvIDSON CourT

Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson

for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos

Fireplaces 9’ ceilings,
garden courtyard,
tile foyers

Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm

ALLEN TATE
REALTORS

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM

EXPLORE THE

WORLD’S RELIGIONS
while earning college credit

© Seudy for a full academic year in Taiwan,
Thailand, India and Israel

© Eam up wo 30 undergraduate credits

© Pursue your academic studies of religion,
anthropology, and international studies through

readings, lectures and participation in religious

and cultural rituals and activities

© Experience life in a Buddhist temple, a Tibetan

monastery, a Hindu mission

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM

(631) 287-8474 LONGIs

~ e-mail: fw@southampton.liunet-edu

www.southampton.edu/fw 239 Montauk Highway # Southampton, NY 11968

GLOBAL EDUCATION FOR SOCIAL CHANG!

The new languag 3

Staff Writer

You know the feeling. There’s a ton of
work piled up on your desk and you’ ve done
everything humanly possible to avoid doing
itexcept. ..cruise the Network Neighborhood.

From checking out the latest pictures of
friends to listening to their MP3 files, the
Network Neighborhood offers a great source
of entertainment during study breaks. Before
now.

“If you have any copyrighted material in
your computer’s shared folders (Network
Neighborhood) then you are violating the
Educom Code and the Davidson Acceptable
Use Policy (AUP),” said Bob Macdonald,
Davidson’s Residential Network Coordina-
tor. ”

Students received an e-mail last week con-
taining the Educom code, which states: “Re-
spect for intellectual labor and creativity is
vital to academic discourse and enterprise.
This principle applies to works of all

is one of the most state of the art
facilites on Davdison’s campus

Educom code outlines rules for computer |
conduct - no shared mp3’s allowed

By AMBER PARKE

Matt Whited

authors...in all media. It encompasses re-
spect for the right to acknowledgement, right
to privacy, and the right to determine the
form, manner and terms of publication and
distribution.” Examples of this include MP3
files, movies and music videos.

Downloading files during the day has in-
terfered with the college’s Internet connec-
tion. Because too many people are taking
advantage of these files, classes that depend
on the Internet are suffering.

“I can see how us downloading files during
class time would be a problem,” commented
Rob Neuman, ’04, “But the internet is open to
everyone, we should be able to post whatever —
we want on there.”

One popular program on campus, Napster,

may also be seen as a violation of the AUP if
it is set to share MP3 files over the internet. It
is acceptable, however, to download these
files for personal use without violating the
AUP. Macdonald stipulates, “[But] you must
not share [these files] on our campus network
or across the internet.”

Davidson College
Union Board

By MATTHEW ZoGBY
Union Board

What is “Wacky William’s Wild Give-
away?”

You may have noticed something recently
in the Union or at Union events. A large
wheel in the Pit contains the names of people
entered to win $500 in November. Each
name in the container is a result of people
attending Union events and filling out the
registration card. It’s simple. For-every
Union event people attend, they can add
their name to the pot and increase their
chances of winning $500.

Why’s-the Union Director, William
Brown, doing this? Good question. Be-
cause he is rumored to be wild and crazy, no
one knows a definite answer. Perhaps it’s to
stir things up on campus. Or maybe
William’s doing it as ongoing publicity for
the Union and Union events. Maybe he’s
just a really nice guy with $500 to spare.
Regardless, no one can argue that this isn’t
a great chance for students to make a load of
cash without really doing anything. Ever
heard that, ““There’s no such thing as a free
lunch?” Well, this is your chance to prove
that wrong and have a lot of free lunches.

How can you be a part of this excitement
and possibly win $500 for having fun? Sim-
ply go to any event sponsored by the Union
Board. Once there, look for the Wacky
William’s Wild Giveaway slips: Fill one

your fingers that your name will be drawn
later,this. month, Plan to attend the, mysteri; ,

Wacky Willam’s Wild Giveaway delivers

~ event (two comedians will be present... that’s.

out, have fun at the current event, and cross _

 eeeeene sere

ous event planned for November 18 because
this is when William will pick the lucky |"
person. Along with the $500, smaller prizes
will be given out at the event as well as each
week leading up to the main schabang (check
out the board near the cafe for a list of
winners). You must be present to win prizes
at Wacky William’s Wild Giveaway.

Three students have won gift certificates
to Summit Coffee. Their names are posted
on the bulletin board outside the Union
Cafe. The winners this week are: Phillip
Stewart, Elijah Smith and Kayleen Hartman:*
Contact Bridgett Green at x2651 to claim
your prize.

Last Monday, William picked three more
winners out of the barrel: Trey Davis, Diedre
Jefferson, and Christina Ritchie. These lucky
winners will get a gift certificate to the
California Juice Company. To claim your
prize, contact Bridget Green like mentioned
above.

Go check the board every week to see if
you or a friend has won. If you didn’t win
this time, don’t,worry... the prizes will keep
getting better and better. Just continue go-
ing to Union Board events until November
18th when William will give away the $500
grand prize at a huge, mysterious blowout

all you get... for now). Every Union Board
event attended earns you one entry into the
drawing. So come out and enjoy... bring
candy if you’d like, William won’t steal it...
we hope. pie

ePeseeeereeeesee see reas

ee ee |

~ ee Meee ee eas

ee eee wna ee
