right place but their brains on hiatus. The
discussions of hate crimes laws on both the
federal and state levels are wonderful ex-
amples of how the drive to please the hoi
polloi often leads to feel-good, but sealants
legislation.

The notion that minority groups should
receive extra protection, more than majority
groups do, solely on the basis of their race,
color, religion, national origin, gender, dis-
ability, or sexual orientation, is the underly-
ing idea upon which hate crimes laws are

based. This idea is inherently flawed. A

retarded man’s life is worth no more than a
black woman’s life, which is worth no more
than a gay Asian’s life, which is worth no
more than an orthodox Jew’s life, which is
worth no more than a middle-aged, middle-
class, married white man’s life.

Equal protection under the law ensures
that a white victim will not receive preferen-
tial treatment when assaulted by a black per-
petrator, so why should a black victim re-
ceive preferential treatment when assaulted
by a white perpetrator, solely because he is
black? No life is worth more than any other.
The murderer of a gay woman ought to be
penalized equally to the murderer of a straight
woman.

Hate crimes laws attempt to penalize a
criminal for the state of mind he was in while
he committed his offense. The government

and our courts ought not to be in the business”

of judging one’s thoughts. Murder is illegal.
Assault is illegal. Rape is illegal. No murder
should be more ille-
gal than another be-

Is Al Sharpton’ S. life worth n more than Bill Be

Legislators often have their hearts in the - student in Wyoming, deserve severe punish- _

ment, not because they killed a man allegedly
for his reprehensible lifestyle, but because
they killed a human being. The men who
dragged a black man to his death in Texas
deserve severe re punishment, not because their

victim was black,

but because their

cause the victim was
of a certain minority
group.

In the State of
New York, those con-
victed of aggravated
assault can. expect a maximum sentence of
fifteen days in jail. Yet, should the criminal
utter a racial slur during the attack, the maxi-
mum sentence is increased to one year in jail.
In New York, a white man who assaulted
another white man would be punished less
severely than if the same white man were to
assault a black man. This is injustice, and this
is discrimination.

There is no need to outline specific pro-
tections for any minority group. Existing
laws need to be enforced. Hate crimes laws
highlight divisions between demographic cat-
egories and they prioritize minority victims
at the expense of equality under the law.

2 The killers of Matthew Shepard, a gay

-“No life is worth more

than any other.”
Pe TT |

victim was a human
being. These are
despicable persons
who committed
these crimes, but we
must have the cour-
age to put our emotions aside and punish only
their actions.

In the District of Columbia, killing a

student is classified as a hate crime; it is °

known as the bias of matriculation. Is there
any reason why a student’s murderer in D.C.
should be punished more severely than a
student’s murderer in a different city? What
difference does it make that the victim was a
student? All that should matter is that he was
a human being. Hate crimes laws solely
punish thoughts because the actions are al-

- ready against the law.

Vice President Al Gore, a Democrat,
almost got it right when he said, “We must
send a clear and strong message to all who

I’ve Been Attending
Meetings, All the Live Long

Day...

The productivity of the average Ameri-
can worker has increased in leaps:and bounds
since the 1950’s, yet the amount of time I
_ have to spend in meetings has increased in
leaps that not even Superman would dare
tackle. Why is it that more and more of my
time has been filled up with meetings, gath-
erings, and my personal favorite, get-
togethers? Have I done something terribly
wrong to be punished in this manner? Was I
a Republican in a former life? Could it possi-
bly have.to do with those “sign-up” sheets I
placed my John Hancock on?

I simply do not understand. It honestly seems
that I am spending more time in meetings
lately than I spend completing tasks for the
respective organization or group. Why is this,
and who do I have to blame for it? _

The history of the “meeting” dates back to
antiquity when a group of cavemen decided
that the whole concept of. “dragging” the
carcasses back to the cave was too exhaust-
ing. So, they had a meeting and soon formed
“The Society for the Production of the Wheel.”
After numerous sub-committee meetings, they
developed a prototype and they called it the
“Firestone.” We all know how well that turned
out.” ;

Now let’s skip ahead to near present day. The
meeting, in its current form, has evolved
throughout the history of our great nation. It
began with the meeting of the First Continen-
tal Congress, then came the meeting at
Yorktown where we kicked some major ass,
and finally with the first modern meeting of
Congress. That is when it all went to hell. You.
~ see, those founding “fathers” (many were, in
fact, grandfathers) decided that they would
be more efficient if they split up the work
among some “committees” and that these
“committees” could then meet occasionally
and fix things. Today there are over 200
committees, sub-committees, and other offi-
cial groups in Congress. And you guessed it;

they all have meetings.

-- Now, I know that you are thinking, “Hey,

they have to run the entire government, of |
course they have a lot of meetings.” What if
I told you that Davidson had more meetings

ge LO GEM AS IEE OLN NTE

_ than the United States Congress? Well, if you

figure in the Union Board and its committee
meetings, the SGA and all of its committees
and meetings, the PCC and its zillion com-

mittees, every other campus organization and -

its respective meetings, and finally just the
run of the mill gatherings amongst friends, I

calculate that there are approximately six -

hundred billion meetings every day at David-
son. This is a rough estimate, granted, but I
am sure that the real number is pretty darned
high. .

So what is the solution to this devastating
quandary? I know! We should set up a com-
mittee to look into the fact that there are too
many meetings!

Note: Andrew wasn’t quite sure how to end

this article. Actually, he had to go to a meet-

ing and'ran out of time. He sends his apolo-

gies and invites you to devise an ending and —

e-mail him. He will critique the endings and
will use one of them in an upcoming article.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

As a former editor of The Davidsonian,
I have spent many a week lamenting the
paltry level of news content on this calm,
quiet college campus.

Many times I felt painfully insignificant

the affluent “spoiled brats” whining about
cleaning up after themselves in the midst of
the most enjoyable years of our lives. Such
journalistic motivations—from national news
sources—are flat-out unprofessional.

But, unfortu-

as we pursued front-

pagestories about such “Most of Charlotte will be scoffing at
blasé topics as the 25" the fact that we wipe our own toiler

Anniversary of acam- seats,”
pus building.

But never did we
stoop so low as to headline a story about
twenty-something’s cleaning their own bath-
rooms.

The Charlotte news media’s seemingly
saturation coverage of this “breaking news
story” made me embarrassed to be a David-
son student, but even more embarrassed on

behalf of the news entities that descended’

upon this 450-acre tract of red brick and gréen
grass.

The only legitimate angle of news cover-
age I can suppose would be a satirical jab at

ar ee ae oe ee ae, Se Py Ss ER ah at ae

nately, we played
right into their
hands—and for
that, must share
some of the embar-
rassment and aname: peat

Perhaps, in the context of this campus,

~ complaints about toilet-scrubbing are indeed

legitimate. It’s unpleasant. Most other stu-
dents don’t have to do it. And we all have
petty frustrations about which we like to
grumble—be it a lack of cable TV or the fact
that the laundry service took two mee days
to return our clothes.

But whimpering about such petty incon-
veniences to the Charlotte news media is far
different than complaining to your room-

OS oe 6 0 eB Oi ee eons O60. 0 66 8 0 4 4p 01e 0459-6

message should be sent to all criminals, re-
gardless of their motive,

George Pataki, the Republican governor
of New York, recently signed into law land-
mark hate crimes legislation in that state.

is illegal, and we will catch you and punish |
you to the full force of our laws.” This strong

‘While signing, he remarked that had there

been hate crimes laws in effect in Europe at
the beginning of the 1900s, the Holocaust
could have been prevented. This statement is
sheer idiocy. All hate crimes legislation

achieves is a disparity in the eyes of the law

between minorities and the majority.

The only way to combat crime is to
enforce existing laws. Penalties should be
increased, but increased for all crimes. Leg-
islators must be strong enough to tell the
family of a murdered gay man that it is wrong
for his murderer to receive extra punishment
because of his frame of mind. What is right
is not always popular, and in the case of hate
crimes laws, what is a popular, feel-good,
quick-fix is not always right. Lawmakers
need to return thoughtcrime to George
Orwell’s imagination.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

Davidson students should grow up

mate, your friends, or even to The
Davidsonian. By going on the record in The
Charlotte Observer, we reposition the com-
plaint into the context of the larger world—a
world where our dirty showers pale in com-
parison to the real-life difficulties faced by
our neighbors around the planet and even in
our own backyard.

Davidson students, faculty, staff, a
alumni invest countless hours of blood, sweat,
and toil in our mission to serve the greater
community and make it a better place. But for
at least the next few days, most of Charlotte
news media will be scoffing at the fact thatwe
wipe our own toilet seats.

Much of this hype can be attributed to
ludicrous journalism.

But, we must acknowledge, that by com-
plaining to Observer reporters about our ter-.
rible toiletry plight, we played right into their
hands. :

: Mike Anderson ‘02,

Editor Emeritus —

ky

+
