- Wepvespay, OcropeR 18,2000. :

Goodnight Desdemona ( Good Morning Tulict) playfully interprets Shakespearean tragedy

’ BYR. Ser Davis
Special Contributor

Ann-Marie MacDonald’s witty comedy,
Goodnight Desdemona (Good Morning
Juliet), will be performed in Davidson
College’s Hodson Hall on October 19-22 and
26-29.

MacDonald’s comedy trespasses in the
hallowed halls of Shakespearean tragedy. In
fact, it metamorphoses Othello and Romeo
and Juliet into comedies.

Not only does Goodnight Desdemona
(Good Morning Juliet) surprise with its revi-
sions of Shakespeare’s plays, but it delights
in the humor of doing so.

“This play is not just funny but fun. It
resonates with the way in which we become

obsessed with one particular thing and forget
how much ‘more we are capable of doing,”
says Dr. Sharon Green, a professor in David-

son College’s theatre department and direc-

tor of the production.

The play follows Constance Ledbelly
(Andra Whitt), a shy academic, as she warps
out of the real world and into the worlds of
Othello and Romeo and Juliet. Constance is
obsessed with finding the sources for these
two Shakespearean plays. She believes that
Shakespeare revised two comedic sources

‘into tragedies when writing Othello and

Romeo and Juliet. In the play, Constance
gets the chance to test her theory.
Constance’s journey through the play is
more than just an academic exploration. It is
not just a journey into the worlds of Othello

and Romeo and Juliet, but alsoa journey into

the world of Constance’s psyche.
“Constance’s journey reminds her of who

she is and allows her to reclaim lost parts of

’ herself,” says Green.

The Desdemona (Rosalie Esteves) and
Juliet (Bronwyn McKnew) of Goodnight
Desdemona (Good Morning Juliet) are not
the garden variety Desdemona and Juliet,
Desdemona is everything Shakespeare’s
Othello is: domineering, aggressive, blood-
thirsty. Juliet is not the picture of pure inno-
cence but a lustful thirteen year-old. As the
play progresses it seems that Constance has

_ something to learn from her encounter with

these two.
In addition to Desdemona and Juliet, the
play presents many of Shakespeare’s famil-

iar characters, some revised from the original
and some not. Romeo (Peter Lipsett) is a lot
like Juliet, lustful, and matters between he
and his “love” become interesting when they
both fall for Constance. In Desdemona’s
world Iago (Andrew Hill) is up to his normal
machinations, although he may have met his
match in Constance.

Tickets for this romp through the world of
Constance Ledbelly can be purchased at the
Davidson College Mainstage Box Office by
calling 704-894-2340. For reservations please
call between the hours of 2-5 PM, Monday
through Friday, beginning the Monday prior
to opening night through the’ final perfor-
mance. A panel discussion entitled “A Sub-
versive Comedy” will immediately follow
the October 26" performance.

Radiohead project album Kid A exceeds expectations

By PHituiep STEWART
Staff Writer

There is a great line in Cameron Crowe’s
new film, Almost Famous, in which a ‘band-
aid’ (or groupie) wonders if other people
know what it’s like to, “Love a song so much
that it hurts.” Although it may not seem like
it upon initial listening, Radiohead’s new
album Kid A, is so rich in strongly focused
intensity, complexly woven soundscapes,
exquisitely crafted harmonies, and awe-in-
spiring beauty that it renders other pop al-
bums of the year mediocre at best. Once these
songs permeate the soul, they keep calling
back for further listening.

Three years ago, Radiohead wooed critics
and eventually consumers with its brilliant
concept album OK Computer. The guitar-
laden record was an attack on the technologi-
cal age and in many respects about transport-
ing the listener. Some songs were radio
friendly, and MTV even aired the dazzling
video for Karma Police, asweeping song that
ironically criticized popular radio for being
as. stimulating as a refrigerator buzz.

Kid A on the other hand has no radio

friendly tracks, not one music video will be °

created for it, and as for the guitars—they
take a back seat to synthesizers, drums and

vocals.

No song illustrates these characteristics
better than the opening track, “Everything in
its Right Place”. Radiohead juxtaposes the
simple lyrics with Thom Yorke’s syntheti-
cally scrambled, stretched and dissected vo-
cals—nothing here suggests the form of a
typical song; there is no bridge, no chorus,
seemingly no direction. The vocals ebb and
flow, coming out of nowhere and leaving just
as subtly. Nothing here seems to be in its
correct place.

The title track continues in this way, and
effectively demonstrates one of the main
points Radiohead wishes to accomplish with
this record. Vocals and instrumentation are
completely engineered by computers; it sings,
“We’ ve got heads on sticks, you’ve got ven-
triloquists,” and again it’s obvious that they
are singing against typical pop radio out-
put—bands are put together like puppet shows
now, engineered synthetically without truth.

“The National Anthem” initially show-
cases the guitar, but gives way to a horn/sax
section that is as surreal and hypnotic as it is
complicated. The band surrounds you in a
blanket of sound that’s warm and comfort-
able, but won’t let you sleep—that is until
“How to Disappear Completely” which is so
hauntingly beautiful and poetic (“I’m not

Four new exhibits arrive at Davidson

By Marta Hunt
Arts & Living Editor

The new show at the Van Avery/Smith
Galleries in the Belk Visual Arts. Center show-
cases four artists with very distinct styles.
The works of Joel Whitaker, Maja Godlewska,
Carrie McGee, and Monica Handcock dis-
play a wide range of expression and medi-
ums, while all are visually pleasing and men-
tally stimulating.

At the opening reception on October 11,
Carrie McGee spoke about her artistic jour-
neys and the metamorphosis of her expres-
sion. Since her college days in L.A. and her
first shows in New York, McGee’s art has
been an accumulation of inspirations and
experiences. Her early works reveal the influ-
ence of 70’s minimalism, with repetitive,
irregular forms and the juxtaposition of hard
and soft elements.

Studies as an exchange artist in Shee:
land broadened her perspectives and allowed
her to focus on developing a personal style.
McGee perfected her minimalist and natural-
istic tendencies, arriving at the art seen today
in the Van Avery Gallery. She creates de-
signs on plexiglass. with rust, producing in-
triguing swirls and shapes with a range of
soft, warm colors.

McGee says she has “‘an idea which invari-
ably changes” as she searches for the perfect
balance between the spiritual and the physi-
cal. She plays up the tension between trans-
parency and density, creating surrounded
spaces in her art which seem to shine from
within. Above all, McGee works to involve

the viewer in her art, with images which are
visually, as well as mentally, engaging.
Joel Whitaker, an artist from Dayton, Ohio,
takes us on a journey through the ordinary
and turns our perspective upside-down. His
photographs focus on the minute, mundane

- aspects of life. The insignificant becomes

significant, as. in the collection of photos
entitled “Light Source”: different sources of
light, such as a plane window, or a mirror
reflecting light on the wall, call the viewer to
see the beauty in the details. Whitaker’s col-
lages also reveal a sharp eye for peculiarity
and synthesis of the large and the small.

Monica Hancock’s art deals with the pro-
cess of aging and the passage of time. Highly
textured paintings convey her fascination with
ideas and popular conceptions of age. Hancock
uses repetition of numbers, shapes, and col-
ors to communicate with the viewer and
stimulate the mind.

A native of Poland, Maja Godlewska now
lives and works in Charlotte. Godlewska’s
works, with their captivating blend of colors
and lines, transport the viewer to another
world of dreams and fantasies. Huge linen
curtains, like giant blueprints, hang from
ceiling to floor in the Van Avery Gallery.
Godlewska covers the linen in a wash of color
with acrylics and crayon. The panels, which
have faint white grids, are pleated, combin-
ing a geometric exactness with the loose,
flowing designs. Also on exhibition are sev-
eral mixed media paintings, in which
Godlewska creates abstract, luminous im-
ages.

here, this isn’t happening”) that Yorke’s voice
may move you to tears.

“Treefingers”, the weakest of the ten tracks
(if one must choose a weak link), is still an
important addition, separating the two dis-
tinct sections nicely, and feeling almost like
a Pink Floyd work. The track opens into
“Tdioteque”’, the most shocking song in this
group. It’s as if dance music artists threw a
gauntlet in their faces and asked them to write
a good dance song as a rock band. Not only
did they do just that, they have written the
most intense, beat-driven piece since
Aaliyah’s “Are You that Somebody”.

Next come “Optimistic” and “In Limbo”,
the former being the most traditional track (in
Radiohead terms) with guitar and piercing
vocals, the latter a meterless piece that sounds
less like a song than it does a disorienting
dream.

The final two songs complete the concept
that is Kid A. In the sublimely complicated
and driving “Morning Bell”, Thom is plead-
ing, “Release me” while in “Motion Picture
Soundtrack” he sings, “Help me get back

where I belong...I will see you in the next
life.”

When asked about the title, Radiohead
claims. that Kid A refers to the first human
clone. This fact alone reveals the duel nature
of their intent. They sing about the world
becoming fabricated and artificial, and about
how we are destroying ourselves, but more
importantly I think, they are singing about the
state of affairs in music now. Initially, Kid A
may not sound like a pop album, but it IS that,
and it’s every bit as catchy as ‘NSync’s “Bye,
Bye, Bye” or Britney’s “Oops I did it Again”;
the songs just demand more attention and
thought. :

Though initially jarring and inaccessible,
Kid A grows to fit its listeners like a glove.
Clocking in at less than fifty minutes, it’s a
demanding and challenging work that ulti-
mately allows one to lose oneself in its vast-
ness and beauty. Ironic, poetic, intense, and
passionate, Kid A is the best Radiohead al-
bum to date and by far the best record of the
year. The music feels so good it hurts.

Collective Soul:
Blender - buy
this record now

By THomas CULLEN

Arts & Living Editor

Collective Soul probably sings a lot of the
songs you like. You just don’t know it.
They’re the band that sings every song you
like that you don’t know who it’s by, some-
one once said. It’s true:

Who would you guess to have the most #
1 rock songs of the 90s? It’s Collective Soul.
With their fifth studio effort, Blender, the
band from Stockbridge, Ga. shows you why
they’ve had so much success.

The band is comprised of the Roland
brothers, Ed, who sings, plays guitar and
keyboards, and Dean, who plays rhythm
guitar. Also on board are Ross Childress
who is on lead guitar, Will Turpin on bass,
and Shane Evans who plays the drums. These
guys have known each other since they were
little and their cohesion is exemplified on

Blender.

The album opens up with the best track of
the entire record. Entitled “Skin,” this song
simply rocks. The layering of chunky guitar
riffs accompanied by the soft voice of Ed
Roland creates an atmosphere that merits
head-banging.

The first single off Blender is the heavy
“Why Pt. 2,” with its pound of drum and
guitar pushed up against a running bass. |
Roland pleads for someone to tell him what
he’s supposed to do after being left by an-
other. The guitar work of one Ross Childress
on this song is nothing short of ill. His solo
shreds with force and precision, while also
cleanly leading the music back to the harsh
guitar riff that grounds the song. -

The band also has the ability to meld soft
and hard sounds to. create wonderful moods
as is shown on “Boast.” The song wobbles
to and fro on a jagged riff, only to return to
a simple acoustic strum that pleases the
senses.

The band also welcomes some guests
onto Blender, the most important of which
is Elton John on the peaceful “Perfect Day.”
John and Roland exchange verses while
John plays the piano old school.

The album closes out in the best possible
manner with the hard-hitting “Happiness.”
The work of Childress and Dean Roland
creates a whirlwind of guitar this unparal-
leled.

The guys in Collective Soul are not here
tobe the next big thing. They’ ve been around
for awhile and they consistently put out
great records. I have them all and they are
each sweet in their own way.

But, if you want, you can forget them, as
you probably had until this article. They
won’t care; they’ll just keep on putting out
great records with number one rock songs |
until you have to notice them.

