TICS

Wines Octo 1B; zp00

Candidates’ tax nolicies reflect their core beliefs

By HANNAH BROWN AND
KRISTINE HARRINGTON
Special Contributors

Al Gore’s tax cuts, are meant for and are
dedicated to, hard-working middle class fami-
lies, who are virtually ignored by Governor
Bush. Not only has the current administra-
tion balanced the budget, but together Clinton
and Gore have turned record deficits esfab-
lished by previous Republican administra-
tions into record surpluses. The facts speak
for themselves, Al Gore will continue build-
ing our nation’s prosperity by focusing on
those who have contributed the most to our
booming economy, the middle class.

Specifically, Al Gore’s plan calls for more
than, $500 billion in tax. cuts for working
families. “The right kind of tax cuts are good
for our economy,” says Gore, “they help
families go to college and build new skills;
they help people save for retirement”
(www.algore.com). Included within Gore’s
tax plan is:

1. Eliminating the marriage penalty for
working families, so that a married couple
would get the same standard tax deduction as
if they remained single. Middle class families
would especially benefit, because it would
raise the standard deduction to twice that of a
single person.

2. Make healthcare more affordable by

proposing a 25% tax credit for health insur-
ance premium costs for each employee of a
small business that decides to join an insur-
ance purchasing coalition. Gore also pro-
poses providing a 25% refundable tax credit
for individuals who do not have access to
employer based health insurance.

3. Gore would increase the amount in child
care expenses that could:be claimed as tax
deductions by middle class families. He
would also provide tax relief for parents who
stay at home to care for their children.

4. Gore would provide Americans with
needs for long term care and their caregivers
a $3000 tax credit, which would help about 2
million more Americans.

5. Gore’s college oppoftunity tax cut plan
would make up to $10,060 in college tuition
costs tax deductible. He also proposes creat-

ing 401(j) accounts, which would allow fami- -

lies and employers to put money away to save
for education and training tax free.

Not only will Al Gore’s targeted tax cuts
strengthen social security, protect Medicare,
and annually help pay off the national debt,
but his plan will fit within a balanced budget.
This is in contrast to George W. Bush’s
agenda, which would exceed the budget sur-
plus by $1.1 trillion, restoring a damaging
deficit and plunging our economy into insta-
bility (except of course for the wealthiest
1%).

1

The Soda Sho

Since 1951

preaklay. preakfast Burr tos

Omelets
Pancakes

104 $.Main St. Davidson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

| (631) 287-8474
e-mail: fw@southampton.liunet.edu
www.southampton.edu/fw

EXPLORE THE

WORLD’S RELIGIONS
while earning college credit

© Study for a full academic year in Taiwan,
Thailand, India and Israel

© Earn up to 30 undergraduate credits

© Pursue your academic studies of religion,
anthropology, and international studies through
readings, lectures and participation in religious
and cultural rituals and activities

© Experience life in a Buddhist temple, a Tibetan
monastery, a Hindu mission

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM
ING ISIAND

239 Montauk Highway ® Southampton, NY 11968

By Rick BoLb ©
Special Contributor

Federal taxes are the highest they have ever
-been during peacetime. In fact, the typical
family now pays nearly 40% of their income
in federal, state, and local taxes—more than
twice the rate paid by the typical family in
1955.

To put this disheartening reality into per-
spective, on average Americans work more
than four months a year to pay their taxes.
Though these high rates may be normal for
the rest of the world, especially our friends in
Europe, when was the last time the United
States ever looked to the French as an ex-
ample of anything good?

The massive size and scope of government
that these oppressive tax bills have created
would be anathema to our nation’s founding
fathers. They are equally unacceptable to
Governor George W. Bush, and when he
becomes our nation’s 43" president he will
not allow it to continue.

In light of the great economic prosperity
that Americans have enjoyed during the past
few years, the government now takes in more
money each year in taxes. than it pays out in
spending.

As a result, Governor Bush believes it is
appropriate to return some of the excess funds
to the Americans whose hard work created
the surplus in the first place. -

But lest you be fooled by Al Gore’s de-
scription of the Bush tax plan as “risky,”
consider a fact: only one quarter of the sur-
plus will be devoted to tax cuts. Bush’s tax
plan still reserves all Social Security funds to
be used only for Social Security and leaves
extra money for important initiatives such as
education, defense, debt reduction, and other
vital needs. Of all the words that could
describe Bush’s tax plan, “risky” seems child-
ishly inappropriate.

The need for tax cuts stems from George
W. Bush’s philosophical understanding that
individual Americans are much more ca-

pable of spending money for their own spe- .

cific needs than the federal government could
ever hope to be. The issue of taxes illustrates
perhaps more clearly than’ any other that
Governor Bush trusts people to make deci-
sions, while Al Gore trusts the federal gov-
ernment.

Every family has different needs: some
need to buy more medication, some need to
save.more for the golden years of retirement,
some want to buy more toys for their chil-
dren. The only way to help all families is to
allow them the freedom to make personal
decisions about how their money should be
spent. Itis afterall their money. Washington
cannot do that effectively, and Americans

-- deserve broad tax cuts so politicians won’t

even be tempted to try.

The cornerstone of Bush’s plan is to cut
marginal income tax rates across the board to
ensure that every American receives tax cuts.
The top rate will be capped at 33%, down

‘from 39.6%; the 31% and 28% rates faced
today by the middle class will be reduced to
25%; and the lowest rate will be cut from 15%

down to 10%.

Alan Greenspan concurs with Bush’s plan
to reduce marginal rates, saying, “tax reduc-
tions can offer favorable incentives for eco-
nomic performance, especially if designed to
lower marginal rates.” In light of that advice,
one wonders why Al Gore offers only lim-
ited, targeted tax cuts that will leave 50 mil-
lion Americans without any tax relief at all.

. Inaddition to the rate cuts, Bush’s plan also
doubles the child tax credit, reduces the mar-
riage penalty, eliminates the death tax, ex-
tends the deductible for charitable giving,
raises the cap on corporate giving, and in-
creases the annual contribution limit on Edu-
cational Savings Accounts from $500 to
$5,000. Bush’s plan offers broad-based, real
tax relief for all Americans.

During the first debate, between his im-
mature sighing and interruptions of Bush and
the moderator, Al Gore kept repeating his
class-warfare rhetoric that Bush’s tax plan is
merely for the rich. Gore is no doubt getting
used to having actual facts fly in the face of
his assertions, and here is yet another ex-
ample.

For starters, Bush’s tax proposal removes
six million low- and moderate-income fami-
lies from the income tax rolls altogether.
Further, the Bush plan reduces the income tax
rate by over 40% for millions of low-income
families. What relief the wealthy do receive
is simply a product of the steeply progressive
tax code. Today, the top 1% of earners (a
group that includes people making $250,000
a year and up) pay 33% of all income taxes.
Despite that enormous burden, Bush’s tax
plan devotes no more than 20% of the ben-
efits to these Americans. As evinced by his
generous tax cuts for low-income families,
even though the bottom 50% of earners pay
just 4% of all income taxes, George W. Bush
is committed to tax relief for all Americans,
not only the rich.

Even more, however, historical experience
demonstrates that the surest way to-shift the
tax burden from low-income Americans to
the wealthiest ones is to cut marginal rates
across the board. When John F. Kennedy cut
the top rate by 21 points during the 1960s, the
top earners’ share of the tax burden increased
from 11.6% to 15.1%. Again, after the Reagan
tax cuts, the contribution to total tax revenue
of the wealthiest Americans jumped from
18% to 28%. As Governor Bush and Alan
Greenspan understand, this phenomenon oc-

‘curs because lower marginal rates stimulate

productivity and growth, expanding economic
opportunity for everyone, as well as simulta-
neously increasing federal tax revenues.

Governor Bush understands that providing
much needed tax relief to spur continued
economic growth and empowering Ameri-
can families to make personal choices about
how to live their own lives is responsible
policy for the nation. What is certain is that
the country does not need a proliferation of
government programs or new spending ini-
tiatives that will only burden the economy
when the surpluses run dry. Somebody better
tell Mr. Gore.

Follow Your Dreams, Write for
The Davidsonian

FREE PIZZA!!!
General Meeting

Thursday, October 19 9:30 pm in the
Conference Room of the Union

