By SEAN BuRKE
Staff Writer

The Wildcat baseball team, missing three
key players, won one game out of three against
visiting East Tennessee State this weekend.
Although the first may have been out of their
hands due to some great hitting from the
Buccaneers, the Wildcats second game vic-
tory and strong performance Sunday showed
that this team will not fold the hard hand it has
been dealt.

Citing the injuries of ace Wes Self and
big hitting Ben Brownas “achallenge,” Ryan
Stroker remains confident that his team will
stay solid despite the absence of these two
key players.

“We can’t let it get to us,” said Stroker.
“Ben and Wes have been a big part of the
lineup but we got guys who can step up.”

Stroker was most likely referring to pitch-
ers Mark Wells, who earned the second game
victory after solid pitching from Jamie
McDonald, and Derrick Wolpert, who pitched
four solid innings in the third game without
an earned run before giving up three in the

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bucs take weekend series

fifth. Steady, solid offense from James
Marino, Jack Purcell, and Tim Frend, whose
homerin the second game was clincher, show
thatthe Cats are ready to meet the challenge
that is in front of them.

After taking the second game, the Wild-
cats seemed likely to make a run at it in the
third game when they loaded the bases in the
seventh with one out, down tworuns. Cassidy
Lundin stepped to the plate and hit a rocket to
the shortstop, who made a great play to field
the ball and pulled off double play to end the
rally. Lundin seemed safe at first but the
umpire thought otherwise.

“We hit the ball solid the whole game,”
Matt Hood said. “They just made some great
plays in the field.”

The first game of the weekend was taken
from the Wildcats early aS three players for
the Bucs combined for twelve hits, four of
which were home runs. Freshman Chad
Boruff contributed three home runs by him-
self and Danny Pugh had the fourth. David-
son is on the road today (Wednesday), play-
ing the nationally-ranked UNC Tarheels in
Chapel Hill.

TUESDAY, AERIL 6, 2000

Aprit 6, 2000 - WINTHROP EAGLES
@ Wivpcat Park, 3:00 p.m.

Eagles’ Record (as of 3/31): 20-15

Back from Paradise: The Eagles’ game
with Davidson will mark their return to the
continental U.S. ‘after a week-long stay in
Hawaii battling the likes of Pepperdine,
Lewis-Clark State, and Hawaii. The Eagles
went 2-4 while in Hawaii from March 27
through April | and will be hungry fora win
when they visit Wildcat Park Thursday.

Attitude drives Wildcats’ 2000 turnaround

By Trey RAYBURN
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team is in the
midst of an incredible turnaround from a
disappointing season last year.

In their 1999 campaign, the Wildcats
won less than 20 games and failed to make the
Southern Conference tournament. When the
team dropped its first few games of this
season, pitcher Jamie McDonald thought
“Here we go again.”

But the team rallied and won its next six
contests, and since then the team has shown
heart and determination in pursuit of victory.

And it has paid off. The 2000 Wildcats
headed into Wednesday’s bout with the
Tarheels with a respectable 19-16 record, 1 1-
10 in the Southern Conference. That’s 8
more wins already than the Wildcats recorded
all of 1999.

The Wildcats have battled to overcome
difficult setbacks including losses of Ben
Brown, Toby Crabtree, and Wes Self due to
injury. Still, they continue to win ball games
and make a statement to the rest of the confer-
ence.

“We have played better defense and we

have pitched better,” head coach Dick Cooke
explained simply. “We have also done a
good job controlling the other team’s running
game as evidenced by the fact that Billy Ryan
and James Marino have thrown out 50 per-
cent of the runners and we have only allowed
20 stolen bases in 32 games.” ,

Catcher Billy Ryan cited the confidence
of the entire team as well as the improved
pitching this year.

“We're playing with confidence,” said
Ryan. “We know we can play with, and more
importantly, beat, anyone we step on the field
with.”

Ryan also mentioned that the addition of
assistant coach Damon Towe has helped as
well. McDonald agreed with Ryan that the
biggest change between this and last year’s
team was the confidence factor, but he cred-
ited the offense with making the pitching
staff's job much easier.

That shows the unity and unselfishness
of this year’s team.

Pitchers give credit to the hitters, and the
hitters all say that the improved pitching has
allowed them to relax and not feel so pres-
sured to hit.

Cooke pointed to the importance of de-

to better pitching and stronger defense.

Davidsonian Dickies
Head coach Dick Cooke laboves 7 attributes this season’s turnaround

fense to the team’s progress.

‘Better defense means the pitchers don’t
try to be too perfect,” said Cooke. “In the
same vein, if the defense senses the pitchers
will but the ball in play they will be on their
toes and will be more likely to make the plays.

Cassidy Lundin added that team unity
and confidence have allowed the Wildcats to
continue in spite of injury.

“The team has faith in everyone and
believes that it can win with any lineup on the
field,” said Lundin.

Except for the addition of Coach Towe
and an exceptional freshman class, the 2000
Wildcat roster looks much like 1999’s.

What has changed about the team is its
attitude. No longer do they expect to lose,
even when facing traditionally powerful teams
such as Duke. They come into each contest
hungry for a win and united behind each
other. This year, winning is the norm, not the
exception.

ApriL 8-9, 2000 - APPALACHIAN STATE
MOowunrTAINEERS
@Boonkg, N.C

Mountaineers’ Record (as of 4/4): 11-21

Scouting Report: App State opened its
2000 campaign with 19 straight losses, but
then went on a tear, winning their next six
contests. The Moutaineers are coming off
athree-game SoCon series against Furman,

the last game of which added to App State’s
win total.

Track breaks two
school records

Both the Davidson men’s and
women’s track & field team competed in
the 2000 adidas Raleigh Relays hosted by
N.C. State this weekend.

Two Wildcat records were set at the -
meet. Senior Brent Ferrell set a new stan-
dard in the 10,000 meters. His time of
30:14.96 was good for an eighth place
finish and eclipsed the previous mark of
30:50.9 which had stood since the 1978
season.

The men’s 4X800 meter relay team
also broke a schoo! record at the meet. The
relay’s time of 7:48:05 surpassed the pre-
vious best time, 7:52.04, set last season.

Davidson travels to the Duke Invita-
tional next weekend. The meet ‘will be
held at the Wallace Wade Stadium in
Durham and be hosted by Duke’ Univer-
sity.

Break

The Soda Shop

SINCE 1951

fast Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

104 $.Main St. Davidson, NG \-

op

lad;
