ae | ‘Tae Davnsonian -

Social Security modernization will. empower cltizeny toi

ERS: By BRANDT LEIBE
Special Contributor

Social Security is one of the most success-
ful programs in US history, providing retire-
ment security for Americans over the past 65
years.

Social Security is facing new challenges,
however; people are living longer, larger
numbers of “Baby Boomers” will begin to
retire in 2008, and the number of workers for
every retiree is declining.

These demographic changes pose a prob-
lem for Social Security because payroll taxes
collected from current workers are used to
pay benefits to retirees. By 2015, the amount
of Social Security benefits owed annually to
retirees will exceed income into the system,
and by 2037, Social Security will be insol-
vent.

Despite the fact that the massive Baby
Boom generation will begin drawing benefits
eight years from now, the Clinton-Gore Ad-
ministration'has done nothing to save Social
Security. When Social Security first started,
there were 42 workers to support each retiree;
in a few decades there will be only 2 workers
per retiree. Asa result, Social Security ben-
efits will exceed contributions beginning in
2015.

“Workers already pay 12.4 % of their in-
come into Social Security, but without re-
form, Social Security taxes will have to be
increased by 50% or benefits will have to be
cut by 30%. The only alternative is to in-
crease the rate of return workers receive on
their payroll taxes.

There are only a few ways to keep Social
Security solvent and to protect the retirement
income of all Americans. Instead of dramati-
cally raising taxes or cutting benefits, Social
Security could be financed by permitting
individuals to invest some of their current
income in personal retirement accounts.

This innovative idea rests at the heart of
Governor Bush’s Social Security proposal.
Governor Bush has outlined a list of prin-
ciples that he will abide by in embarking on
the push for reform of the ailing Social Secu-
rity system.

Governor Bush believes that moderniza-
tion must not alter existing benefits for retir-
ees or near-retirees. He also believes that

t-

Social Security surplus money should be

used only, for Social Security. He strongly .

believes that payroll taxes must not be in-
creased beyond their already exorbitant lev-
els.

Finally, Governor Bush believes that any
modernization plan should include provi-
sions forsindividually controlled, voluntary
personal retirement accounts, which will aug-
ment the Social Security safety net. These
accounts will earn higher rates of return, be
screened for safety and soundness, and help
workers build wealth that can be passed on to
their children.

Governor Bush is by no means the first
person to propose personal retirement ac-
counts, for virtually all bipartisan reform
proposals in Congress enable individuals to
invest in personal accounts. These accounts
would provide workers with higher rates of
return on their money. Social Security ben-
eficiaries currently receive a paltry 1.9% rate
of return on the total amount of money that
they paid into the system, and this already
meager rate will diminish further as the So-
cial Security system veers toward insolvency
in 2037. By contrast, inflation-adjusted aver-
age rates of return on equities and govern-
ment inflation-indexed bonds are much
higher, 7.2% and 4%, respectively.

Personal retirement accounts will permit
younger workers to accumulate wealth by
saving and investing their own funds and
enjoying the benefits of compound interest.
As an example, if a 22 year-old making
$20,000 annually were permitted to invest 2
percentage points of his or her payroll taxes in
a personal account involving a mix of stocks
and bonds, that account would be worth over
$100,000 at retirement. (Through all of this,
parameters would be established to ensure
the safety and soundness of personal retire-
ment account investments.) Additionally,
unlike Social Security, individuals would own
the assets in their personal retirement ac-
counts and could pass them on to their chil-
dren or relatives.

Personal accounts would also create sectre
retirement income free from political risk.
Under the current system, individuals do not
have any legal right to the money they con-
tribute in payroll taxes. Congress can reduce
Social Security benefits or increase taxes on

real fruit smoothies
fresh squeezed juices
breakfast

wrap sandwiches
bakery items

h é aly

vy)

Bringing a taste of California to Lake Norman

I9712 One Norman Blvd.
Exit 28, Cornelius
(In front of Bila),

895-7696

benefits at any time. Personal accounts would -

provide people with assets of their own that
are not subject to the whims of politicians.
Governor Bush believes Social Security is
a defining American promise that must be
kept. He will not change benefits in any way
for current retirees or those near retirement.
But to save Social Security for the next
generation, he will lead a bipartisan effort to
reform it by giving individuals the option of
voluntarily investing a portion of their Social
Security payroll taxes in personal retirement
accounts. Governor Bush will honor and
strengthen Social Security. He will protect
all benefits for today’s seniors and ensure
that Social Security is available for their

srondetinea

Accolia the saphdiadinkioebaas s
ciaries into an already shaky Social Security —
system will be a monumental effort that will
require fundamental reform of the system. A
Gore administration would only throw more
money at the problem, deferring it for later
generations to deal with.

Let’s be absolutely clear: Al Gore has done
nothing to fundamentally reform Social Se-
curity for the past seven and a half years, and
his current plans likewise offer no solutions
for fundamental reform. Governor Bush will
reform the system, protect benefits for today’s
seniors, and allow younger payroll taxpayers
more control over the money taken from their
paychecks.

Gore Social Security plan ensures
solvency and offers new options

By BEN TERESA
Special Contributor

Social Security is currently collecting more
money than it is paying off in benefits, but
with the coming retirement of the Baby Boom

generation, the current system will begin to .

operate with a deficit in 2037. Therefore,
Social Security faces new challenges that
threaten its long-term viability.

Al Gore’s plan for Social Security includes
keeping the system from bankruptcy, or in-
suring solvency, while strengthening the sys-
tem simultaneously through personal retire-
ment savings. However, these added mea-
sures will not siphon vital funds from Social
Security.

Instead Gore’s plan will use the Social
Security surplus to save the system while also
paying down the national debt, saving addi-
tional money in interest payments which will
also be given to Social Security.

Under Al Gore’s proposed balanced bud-
get, the entire Social Security surplus- an
estimated $2.3 trillion over ten years- would
be transferred to debt reduction and to the
improvement of Social Security.

Al Gore promises that he would not permit
any other use for Social Security surplus
other than for direct recirculation into the
system.

Gore’s plan to reduce the debt by nearly
$2.3 trillion over the next ten years will
produce significant interest savings. These
interest savings will be transferred to extend
the solvency of Social Security.

Gore opposes any attempt to save Social
Security through reduction in benefits or raise
in the age of eligibility to receive benefits.

Gore proposes to expand the benefits of-
fered under Social Security by eliminating

the “Motherhood Penalty” by which current
law inhibits those raising children and out of
the work force to gain Social Security entitle-
ments.

Gore would give Social Security credit for
up to five years spent raising children. The
increased benefits, while correcting unfair
policies, would account for less than five
percent of the Social Security surplus.

In addition to Social Security benefits Gore
proposes “Retirement Savings Plus,” which
would not divert funds from Social Security
like privatization plans, but would build on
the current IRAs and 401(k) plans. Retire-
ment Savings accounts, like IRAs and 401(k)
plans, would be voluntary based in the pri-
vate sector, not managed by the government;
contributions to these accounts would be tax
deductible and would grow tax-free.

These accounts would offer an important
new choice for millions of families and leave
them with a sizable nest egg at retirement in
addition to their Social Security entitlement,
all without diverting the system’s funds.

Gore explains, “To me, Social Security is
more than a government program. It is a
solemn compact between the generations.”
Gore wants to ensure this “compact between
the generations” indeed is a compact with
stability.

To account for the increasing number of
seniors in our population, Gore plans to en-
sure solvency by securing the Social Security
surpluses only for the system, and with the
interest saved with the balanced budget.

While providing for the continued viability
of Social Security, Gore plans also to add new
options for additional retirements savings so
that all generations will find their promised
benefits at retirement.

Expand Your Mind. Come to Columbia.

Visiting Students
City.

| Study Abroad

Program in Beijing

February—reserve yours today.

Take a break. Spend a semester at Columbia. Explore New York

¢ Columbia University in Paris * Berlin Consortium for German
Studies * Summer Program in Italy (Scandiano):* Summer

Summer Session 2001

Join us for an exciting summer! It’s not too early'to pian for
~ 2001. The bulletin will be available in

(212)854-6483

. -~cesp-infoS@columbia.edu _

Www.Ce.CORMENS ny) t

CONTINUING EDUCATION AND SPECIAL PROGRAM?

