Tae DavipsoniAN

By Jessica MERING
Staff Writer

Catcards are often the currency of choice
on campus — at the Commons, the Union, the
laundry and the bookstore. Beginning next
semester, students will also be able to use
them to pay for sodas from vending ma-
chines.

This innovation is the first step towards
making the Catcard even more functional
than it is now.

Plans for card-readable vending machines
have been in the works for a good while. The
technology has been readily available for
over a year, but until now, it hasn’t been
reliable enough to be a good investment for
Davidson says Director of Auxiliary Ser-
vices Richard Terry.

Equipping machines with card readers is a
significant investment. Each device costs
about $800 and then must be installed on
existing machines. The cost of the addition,
however, will not increase drink prices.

Administrators have been exploring the
possibility of upgrading the machines for
awhile. They wanted to be sure that the de-
vices were practical and student response
was positive before installation.

Within the next few weeks, technicians
from Coke and Pepsi, whose companies are
financing most of the card readers, will be on
campus to assist in installing scanners on
twelve machines. In order to assure that stu-
dents will not choose one company because
its product is easier to buy than the other,

Terry has made certain that an equal gumber
of Coke and Pepsi Machines are equipped.

Coke and Pepsi machines in Belk, Akers,
Sentelle, South Chambers, West and North
Chambers will be upgraded. Card readers
will also be added in North Chambers (Coke
only) and Watts (Pepsi only). The machines
will subtract the purchase price from Bonus
Bucks first and will draw from declining
balance if Bonus Bucks are not available.

Card-readable machines will be more con-
venient, but they will also facilitate security
and accounting. Since the device automati-
cally tabulates purchases, immediate docu-
mentation will be available. This also elimi-
nates the manpower needed to count and
organize the coins used to purchase drinks.

Furthermore, Terry expects that the card
readers will be able to display the remaining
balance on a Catcard after a purchase.

Gray Patterson ’03 is the chair of the SGA
committee for Auxiliary Services: “I think
it’ll be great. Lots of students here put their
spending money on the declining balance and
don’t carry cash with them,” he remarked.

With this expansion of the Catcard’s capa-
bilities, more services are soon to follow. The
library staff is currently exploring the possi-
bility of equipping photocopiers with scan-
ners. The copiers are compatible, and Terry
says that this will be the next project once the
soda machines are successfully equipped.

Also possible is the use of Catcards at area
businesses. The business would buy the card
reader and its necessary equipment, such asa
telephone line to transmit data back to

f
|

DAVIDSON COURT

Elaine 896-5152
Karen 896-5110
896-8283

Historic Davidson

for $103,000-$123,500
2&3 BR. Condos

Fireplaces 9’ ceilings,
garden courtyard,
tile foyers

Model Open Sat. & Sun. 1-4pm

ALLEN TATE
REALTORS

|

THE

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

‘BYTHEMO
EXPERIENCE

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTE

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY &
a EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR
AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE « 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

PENINSULA. EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Catcard expansion allows | students more

Davidson’s server.

Terry points out that expanding the Catcard
into the community would raise issues. of
equal access, since high up-front costs might
preclude small firms from taking advantage
of the equipment. “We don’t want to deprive
owner-operated business from students’ busi-
ness just because they would be able to pay
with 4 Catcard at a larger chain,” he said.

At schools like Duke University, outside
businesses have already taken advantage of
student card payment. Domino’s Pizza uses
card readers and shares 20% of its profit from
those sales with the school. Terry says that
the Davidson-area Domino’s would be inter-
ested in a similar arrangement. Implementing
this kind of a system would also allow stu-
dents to use their Catcards to pay for food at
football and baseball games, where outside
vendors run the concession stands.

Adding card readers to vending machines
is only the beginning of a process to augment

the Catcard’s deetulnces: But while this will
increase students’ options, it has its draw-
backs.

“{ think it’ll be good and bad. Good be-

_ cause it’s convenient, but bad because it’s

convenient, too! It’ll-be so much easier to
spend money without thinking about it!” con-
cluded Joey Harris ’02.

The Davidsonian
is seeking students to work in -
business and advertising.
Paid positions available.

Contact Peter Clark x5218
or David J ohnston x5607.

 —_ —
David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By STepHANiE COURCHESNE
Health Advisor

The semester is winding down, exams
are close at hand, and Christmas vacation is
nearly in sight. Everyone is looking for-
ward to the day when we leave our beloved
Davidson College for along month at home.
Ah, our own beds, Mom’s home wonking--
what could be better?

But wait, you say? Everything WON'T
be perfect? What could go wrong?

There are many adjustments that both
college students and parents must make

have already gotten a sense of this over Fall
Break or Thanksgiving. But Christmas
Break is the real test. A month back at home
is long enough to notice some changes in

i ci esa -

First of all is the sleeping issue. “AS
ole students, most people tend to go to
bed pretty late and spend.most of the morn-
ing sleeping in. But not everyone runs on

The Student Health Advisors are, from left to right: Stephanie Courchesne, Rebecca Moore,

" to.use the car, and why we should bother to
when vacations roll around. Perhaps you — againatthe end of the break. And then there

comes home.

family dynamics that you may bot have.

the same schedule, and it is pretty hard to ta :
forgive your mother for pee ansiee’ ft

ey

rules pertaining to gong out. Coles stu-
dents are used to coming and going as they
please. Curfews are a thing of the past.
Until you return home and wonder why the
police have been out looking for you be-
cause you left the house without telling
anyone and stayed out until3. And then you
find out that those old rules of the house still
apply.

There are lots of i issues that students
and parents may find themselves in dis-
agreements about—the phone bill, who gets

unpack when we are just going to pack
is that dreaded day when the gehts res,

But just remember that having ee:
students home can be difficult for parents

too. debts fey jrovay mies te

