from page 1
its goals.

Along with Brantley’s original proposal, it
considered a modified plan that would elimi-
nate senators from individual houses but
maintain a smaller number of seats to repre-
sent Patterson Court as a whole: This plan
would allow for a smaller Senate but still
preserve the social houses’ voices.

The Committee debated the issue with
the Senate Executive Committee on Monday.
They decided that making any significant
structural changes would be premature. The
group developed a proposal to conduct a
formal review. of the Senne bylaws ands
structure.

Brantley submitted the new proposal ina
second resolution at last night’s SGA meet-

Virus shuts down David-
son server, though not 7
virulent as “I love you”

BY JT ToLeNtINo
News Editor

The Davidson College e-mail server was
again the victim of another e-mail virus last
week, prompting ITS to shut down the server
for a time, and creating headaches for users
on campus.

The first signs of the virus came Thursday
around 3:30 p.m..when ITS’s e-mail virus
scanner, Scan Mail, detected the virus on the
server. Soon afterwards, the virus spread
throughout the server, showing up in the
mailboxes of students and faculty alike.

The situation quickly worsened, causing
ITS to halt e-mail service for five hours
Thursday evening to allow the Scan Mail
program to delete the programs and alleviate
the e-mail backup that the virus caused.

The virus entered into the e-mail server
through Internet Relay Chat programs. It

then replicated through e-mail, sending itself .

as an attachment to the addresses in a
computer’s address book.

The virus did not affect users of other
instant messenger programs such as AOL or
MSN Messenger, as these messenger pro-

Senators listen as Brantley explains the proposals.

Lorenzin of ITS.

®

ing. The senators undhimously passed the
~ resolution to “appoint a Self-Study commit- —

tee, charged with the task of preparing a
detailed study of*the SGA Senate, to give
recommended changes to the Bylaws through-
out the semester.”

This committee will be responsible for
exploring, among other things, the questions
of representation that Brantley has _articu-
lated. “I think its good we’re thinking about
how we can make ourselves better, how we
can be more efficient and how we can repre-
sent the student body,” said SGA president
Dane Erickson, ‘01.

Taking this smaller step towards change
was well received. “Problems still exist with
SGA inefficiency. It was too soon to take any
radical measures but the formation of the
committee to review the bylaws and the struc-
ture was a good idea and should be very
productive,” said Suzanne Francis, ‘03, Rep-
resentative, Warner Hall.

JT Tolentino

‘Funny text” email draws no laughs

grams are not IRCs.

Jokes, Funny, Life_Stages, Funny Text,
Jokes Text were some of the different subject
headings of the email containing the virus.
Because of the variety and the seemingly
innocuous nature of the subjects, many users
opened the e-mail, causing the virus to spread
further.

The virus was not as harmful as previous
viruses have been in the past, notes Lydia

was much more destructive in that it had the
potential to delete and alter files,” she said.

The “I Love You” virus, which struck e-
mail servers worldwide this past spring,
caused billions of dollars in damage.

Since the “I Love You” virus incident, ITS
has created a committee to triage virus at-
tacks and to make quick assessments of the
severity of problems. Despite the establish-
ment of this safeguard, Lorenzin reiterates
that there, “is no way we can combat a par-
ticular virus, cause we never know how the
next virus is going to hit.”

By Monday afternoon, Abby Clay Sys-

tem Programmer, reported that the number of

infected e-mails had decreased, although Scan
Mail was still detecting it on the server.
Creasy had some advice for students. “Be
very careful of opening attachments,” she
said. “If you’re not expecting any attach-
ments from somebody, don’t open it.”

‘We want your best.

The Davidsonian

‘Contact Aaron Houck x5564 or Richard Vinson x6213

“The ‘I Love You’ Virus -

JT Tolentino

In the U.S. News & World Reports 2001 rankings, Davidson College
ranked 11th, with Amherst ranked 1st. Washington and Lee
University (12) and the University of the South (25) were the only -
other southern liberal arts college on the top 25 list.

Rankings,

from page 1
said senior Alyssa Sinclair.
Yet the question arises amidst all the hype

_and excitement: how accurate is the ranking

system and what sort of emphasis should be
placed on the results?

The magazine strives to provide accurate
lists, but every survey has its disclaimers.
Magazine officials Robert Morse and Samuel
Flanigan gave such a warning: “Since we
may change our methodology from year to
year, we do not invite readers to track col-
leges’ annual moves in the rankings,” they
said.

Perhaps Davidson’s weakest ranking came
in the area of faculty resources, which is
based on average teacher salary, student-
teacher ratios, class sizes, and the proportion
of professors with the highest degree in their

fields. The college ranked 25".

History professor Dr. Lou Ortmayer cites
the ranking as a sign that the college needs to
increase teacher salaries and departmental
budgets.

When the ratings are good, he says, the

tendency -is to credit the survey. But when

they’re bad, in the case of the faculty re-
sources ranking, its accuracy is downplayed.
The school downplays [the survey’s] sig-
nificance except when it’s important to us,”
he said.
Of course, there are some factors that can’t

be measured by statistics and formulas.

The ambience of campus life simply “eludes
the measuring process,” noted Cable.

The honor code has a lot to do with life on
campus,” said freshman Vic Lindsay, citing
another immeasurable aspect.

How you’ re perceived is not unimportant,
but the correlation between that “beauty con-
test’ and the quality and nature of education
by any institution has never been validated,”
said Vagt.

Everyone professes to be totally disinter-
ested in the results because of the survey’s
underpinnings, but we sure look to see how
we rank.”

Despite its defects, the survey serves as
plays a role in the decision of some prospec-
tive students.

This reputation as an academically supe-
rior college helped me make my decision,”
says freshman Garret Taylor. “It helped me
decide to come here.”

Cable conceded that the rankings can be
used as a recruiting tool, but she also empha-
sized that students should listen to their “gut
feélings” in their decisions.

The authors of the report even say that “a
school’s ranking should be only part of [the
prospective student’s] calculation.”

Vagt summed up the college’s position
best.

“All of us would love to be ranked higher,
but not at the cost of doing something we
don’t believe is right,” he said. “We have not
and will not make decisions based on what
will make us look better.”

Police
Search,

from page I

Hypothetically, Dr. Thornberry said that if
the magazine had been High Times, and the
search had yielded incriminating evidence, a
lawyer would have strong grounds to argue
the search was unconstitutional. ‘Her attor-
ney would have argued that the magazine is
legally for sale. There has been no attempt to
interfere with its circulation.” Since the maga-
zine is legally and readily available, the law-
yers would have argued that possession of
High Times did not constitute probable cause.

The prosecution would likely have argued
that “the magazine is aimed specifically at
users and growers of marijuana. They would
have attempted to correlate it with other cir-

“cumstances.”

Thornberry explained that a single isolated
observation is rarely accepted as probable
cause; in criminal cases, prosecutors and po-
lice try to link several elements together in

* order to justify a search. However, in the
Martin case, “they pulled her over only onthe —
basis of one observation, so there’s no prob- .

able cause.”
The implications of the incident for David-
son students are open to interpretation. Could

Davidson police conduct a similar search on
the campus? Did the fact that Susan Martin is
herself college-age have any bearing on the
officer’s suspicions?

Officer Scott Searcy helped put the case in
context. By Officer Searcy’s estimate, 5-10
misdemeanor drug citations are issued every
month by the Davidson police. The majority
of these are not issued on the Davidson cam-
pus or to Davidson students; Searcy says they
usually let the campus police handle such
cases.

Furthermore, Searcy contends the citations
he has issued for marijuana posession or use
run “across all age groups;” no generation is
more likely than another to be searched or
issued a citation.

Officer Searcy says others in the Davidson
police department have previously encoun-
tered High Times, although he himself has
not. For legal reasons, he was unable to
comment specifically on the Martin case.

However, all official statements made by
the Davidson Police Department since the

, incident support the actions taken on August

17.. Assistant Chief Parker summed up the
department’s position in the August 25 Char-
lotte Observer: “He acted properly. He thinks
he had reasonable suspicion, and we do too.”

Richard Vinson
Contributing Author
