_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ANN GREGORY
News Editor

“A woman is often measured by things
she cannot control,” said Tiffanie Cohen
Adams, an Olympic gold medalist, before an
audience in the Chambers Gallery last Tues-
day. “Measurements are only statistics and
statistics lie.”

Adams’s appearance marked the high- *

light of Eating Disorder Awareness Week at
Davidson. Programming for the week also
included a Eating Disorder Awareness lunch
and a Eating Disorder Awareness table run
by the Health Advisors.

Adams, who won her golds in the 1984
games, suffered along bout with bulimia and
is now a speaker and consultant. Her goals in
speaking across the country are “to educate
about how to make a difference” and to
promote “entering into the new millennium

‘celebrating bodies of all shapes and sizes.”

In discussing the three types of eating ©

disorders, anorexia, bulimia, and binge eat-
ing, Adams strongly emphasized that eating
disorders “are not about the food. They are
about underlying emotional problems.”

Adams explained that many things can —

trigger unhealthy eating habits, ranging from
genetic predisposition to dieting-gone-awry.
But, she says, these are merely “loading the
gun, our culture is pulling the trigger.”
Regarding the high statistic of eating

disorders on college campuses, she cited all
the changes taking place in one’s life, and the
occurrence of “fad bulimia” which involves
the teaching and implementing of the bingeing
and purging process among friends.

She also showed examples of different
media images, such as magazine ads, which
contribute to an overly thin ideal for women
and unhealthy ideals for men as well.

Adams shared with the attentive audi-
ence her own struggle with bulimia, which
began in college. Her unstable family life
and own perfectionism (she was disappointed
with her second gold medal because she had
not beaten the world record) contributed toa
desire to control her weight, emphasized by
her swimming coach. She described various
horrors that she endured, including spitting
up blood, fainting, and severe depression and
distortion of reality.

After a near five-year struggle, in and
out of the hospital, Adams believes to have
turned “tragedy into triumph.” She proudly
showed the audience pictures of her family,
calling her first-born child her “third gold
medal.”

She called upon the audience to begin to
make a difference by “becoming a more
constructive consumer.” By avoiding maga-
zines and products that endorse an unhealthy
body ideal, she hopes that society-at-large
can begin to reduce the occurrence of eating
disorders.

Davidson College’s Fire
Policy: Backdraft of the
Seton Hall Disaster

By Megan F. Robb
Guest Writer

Fires at universities across the country

_ have Davidson administrators assessing our

campus'’s safety.

A fire at Seton Hall caught the nation’s
attention last month when four students at the
New Jersey university were severely burned
after a fire broke out in the lounge.

.. Many students failed to exit the building,
expecting that the blaring siren was merely
the latest in a string of false alarms.

Davidson College’s prevention plan in-
cludes three main groups associated with the
campus: Public Safety, the Davidson Fire:
Department, and the Residence Life Office.

Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey
and fire chief Wilson Sadler annually con-
duct a walk-through check of each building to
ensure that the campus meets all fire and
safety requirements. Meanwhile, the Resi-
dence Life Office trains all student employ-
ees in fire-safety management. :

Many students have recently questioned
the lack of sprinklers in residence halls. Older
dormitories on campus are not outfitted with
the fire deterrent sprinklers, but some more
recently-constructed structures do contain the
sprinklers.

Both McKelvey and Deanna Kauffman,
Assistant Director of Residence Life, have
full confidence in the smoke alarms found in
the dorms.

Though some students complain of their
sensitivity—as shower steam and aerosol
sometimes trigger the alarms—RLO staff
claim that this sensitivity is necessary in
order to catch fires before they become un-
controllable.

Davidson informs its students of its fire
policies through freshman orientation, RLO
staff members, and via the Internet. The web
information replaces the Red Book, which is
now available solely online (it accessed

through Davidson’s wane to _ Shae Life,

ee ee ee Oa

one ne kk ee oe le

then Student Conduct).

McKelvey plans to update and improve
his department's pages in the near future.

McKelvey admits that the new web site
format needs improvement, and the site needs
to be expanded. He expects to remedy this
shortcoming in the near future.

One of the main ways that students be-
come aware of fire safety and the college’s
policy is through fire drills that occur once
every semester. McKelvey and Kauffman
both said that the drills were successful and
were completed with minor problems.

A voice from the fire department gave a
different perspective. When asked if the fire
drills were run properly, Bo Fitzgerald, a
1999 Davidson gradate and fire-fighter at the
Davidson station responded, “They are not
run properly, no, no. °

“People get kind of complacent with the
way things are over there,” said Fitzgerald.
McKelvey agreed, stating that Davidson is
far from immune to a Seton Hall-type tragedy

‘because many students ignore fire alarms

during drills and unplanned false alarms.

McKelvey estimates that fifty alarms
each school year are false. Administrators
believe it is important that the students treat
each alarm seriously, as the Fire Department
does.

Students can check the Davidson web
site for “Do’s and Don’ts” concerning fire
safety. According to Kauffman, halogen
lamps pose the greatest danger to dorms,
followed closely by candles. In the Martin
Court apartments last year, a student returned
from Spring Break as her halogen lamp (which
was in the “on” position, though it had ap-
peared to be off) caught a box on fire. Just this
‘month, a candle flame almost set another
Martin Court apartment bathroom on fire.

Kauffman said, “We’ ve been very lucky”
that Davidson has not had any major fires,
and she urges students to reevaluate their
attitudes toward fire safety.

Oe 6 6 a Re see

_ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000.

Olympic gold medalist, Tiffanie Cohen A Adams discusses her struggle

to overcome an eaung. disorder.

eer ss SS eT ee ees

Two English Professors share

Dr. Gill Holland
(left) and Dr.
Randy Nelson
presented
samples of
their work last
Thursday.

their work at “‘Davidson Reads’’

By Setu Davis

News Editor

Two bristle-bearded English professors,
Drs. J. Gill Holland and Randy Nelson, sto-
ries at this year’s “Davidson Reads” program
held last Thursday.

After an introduction by English Depart-
ment chair Dr. Cynthia Lewis, Dr. Holland
shared a short story about his experiences in
China.

Dr. Holland, who studied Mandarin and
Classical Chinese at Stanford University, has
traveled extensively in China, in 1973-74,
1989, and 1995.

Holland was in China during the
Tinnamen Square massacre, an event that he
described in an article for the Washington &
Lee alumni magazine.

On Thursday night Holland read a story
about a less violent time, when he and a close
friend appeared in a Chinese soap opera en-
titled “Why Shouldn’t We String the Great
Wall with Christmas Lights?” Holland’s
story resonates with references to Classical
Chinese literature.

Sprinkled with historical and cultural
commentary, Holland’s story tells of the ad-
ventures of Old Tiger and Arthur, two men

picked to appear in a soap opera alon gside the
beautiful Chinese actress Laughing Snow.
With their driver, aptly named Driving Man
at the wheel, these men experience a night to
remember in the K’unlun Hotel.

Holland also read from his newly pub-
lished translations of Edvard Munch’s j jour-

nals. Munch is best known for his painting
“Scream.” Munch’s account of his first kiss
engendered some laughter in the crowd.

Dr. Randy Nelson, whose work has re-
cently been recognized with several major
awards, was the second reader on Thursday
night.

Nelson’s story “Cutters” was awarded
the Carson McCullers Award, the highest
award a piece of unpublished fiction can
receive in America. Additionally, Nelson
won the Frank O’Connor Award for his “River
Story.” These two stories were the first that
Nelson ever submitted to contests.

Nelson began by reading from “Cut-
ters.” The main character in this story is
Emily, a woman who cuts herself with glass.
She is a newspaper photographer who has
won a Pulitizer Prize for her photograph of a
fifteen year old member of The Holiness
Church, a place of worship for snake han-
dlers. Using flashbacks and precise, power-
fulimagery, Nelson develops the character of
Emily’s character.

The second pieceNelson read was a tour
de force in only 1200 words. Entitled “Ab-
duction,” it describes a tabloid reporter who
undergoes a character development during
an interview with a young woman who claims
to have been abducted by aliens.

This year marked Nelson and Holland’s
second appearance at “Davidson Reads,” an
annual program in which Davidson profes-
sors share their talents with the student body
and public,

