16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 6, 2000

Volleyball caps season with trip to Hawaii

By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Penning the final chapter to yet another
storybook season, Davidson ended its 2000
campaign with a
first-round
NCAA tourna-
ment loss to the
top-seeded Uni-
versity of Hawaii
in Honolulu.

In front of a
crowd of 6,160,
Hawaii’s Wahine Rainbows—the third-rated:
team in Division-I volleyball—bested the
‘Cats 15-5, 15-6, 15-8.

“It was a very exciting match,” said
Davidson head coach Tami Darwin, whose
girls fared quite impressively in the face of
overwhelming opposition. “Our girls are very
intelligent and we told them the game plan
and they did a wonderful job of stepping up
and doing what we asked them to do.”

Hawaii jumped out of the gate early, quickly
capturing the match’s first eleven points be-
fore Davidson rallied to earn five points be-
fore the end of the games. And the ‘Cats
looked even more impressive in successive
games—jumping out to a 3-0 lead in game
two and scoring a remarkable eight points
against the 28-1 Rainbows.

Following the match, the University of
Hawaii head coach .Dave Shoji said,
“(Davidson) reminded me a little bit of Santa
Barbara,” high praise in the Division-I vol-
leyball world. “They attack you from all
ways, they run a pretty good offense and
(have) good ball control.”

The match was a bit of a swan song for
Davidson’s Class of 2000—easily the most
prolific assembly of talent in Wildcat volley-
ball history. Mara Mordini and sophomore
Roberta Quis notched a match-high 12 kills
and Brooke Bentley completed an afternoon-
best 14 digs. Katherine Lorenz and Lauren
Schultz added eight digs to the cause.

The University of Hawaii continued tour-
nament play on Friday with a three-game
victory over the 23-8 University of Utah.

Sonidsonian Flaver™

Junior forward K

victory over G
onship of the I
on Dec. 3 and was named tournament

@ The 2000 Southern Conference champion volleyball team poses for a team picture in Hawaii.

Cats receive warm Hawaiian welcome in Honolulu

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

When the Davidson volleyball team lifted
off from Charlotte-Douglas International

Airport last week, Wildcat fans and.

Charlotteans mustered minimal fanfare.
Perhaps campus and area fans had simply
come to expect nothing less from this dy-
nasty-in-the-making program. Perhaps it was
that other program’s recent successes had
tempered fans’ astonishment for. greatness.
Perhaps it was simply the hectic, bustling
end-of-semester angst that distracted from
these women’s momentous achievements.
But whatever underattention the squad re-

rer Copland scored

rte,

MVP.

ceived was more than made up for. Because
when that plane touched down on the tarmac
of Honolulu’ s international airport, those same
Wildcats were the toast of the town.

The Honolulu Advertiser sent a reporter to
document the story of Davidson’s miracu-
lous ascent through the world of women’s
volleyball.

Advertiser staff writer Ann Miller described
Hawaii as “an island curiously hooked on
their sport.” Davidson’ volleyballers were
“recognized the moment they stepped off the
plane, and again while shopping,” she wrote.

Tami Darwin told the Advertiser, “We
were astounded at how well people knew the
game. In Charlotte, it’s more like, ‘Oh yeah,
volleyball....do you serve or what?’ It’s in-
credible the status that volleyball has in Ha-
waii. We feel very fortunate to be‘chosen to
come here.”

It wasn’t their mere participation in the
tournament that helped make Davidson an
immediate hometown favorite of the Hawai-
ian audience. Reporters, fans, pundits, and
competitors wowed at Davidson’s academic
prestige—the school’s SAT average of 1330
was uttered in amazement more than a few
times. But perhaps the more astonishing
figure was 1.5—the number of scholarships
at Coach Tami Darwin’s disposal, as com-
pared to the twelve that typical Division-I
schools have at their disposal.

Appellations like Mordini and Darwin
quickly became household names in this hot-
bed of Division I volleyball.

And with good reason.

With an impressive performance in Ha-
waii, Mara Mordini—a 5-9 outside hitter
from Lake Bluff, I1]—polished the finishing
touches on her sensational career. For the
second consecutive year, she earned South-
ern Conference Player of the Year Honors
and was named the tournament’s most valu-
able player.

For Coach Darwin—whose minimal D-I
coaching experience raised some eyebrows
when she was hired last spring to succeed the
program’s chief architect Lisa Marston—
selection as the Southern Conference’s Coach
of the Year was a terrific honor.

With a 16-4 conference record this. fall,
Davidson’s Class of 2000 finishes its four-
year career with a 59-15 conference record, a
drastic improvement over the 14-35 record
compiled over the four years before their
arrival.

The Advertiser reporter, commenting on
Davidson’ s heroic feats in the Southern Con-
ference over recent years, wrote that “It’s
easy to believe in miracles.”

1330 boards. 1.5 scholarships. 59-15 in the
Southern Conference and back-to-back trips
to the NCAA Tournament.

It certainly is.

Cats start strong but fall to top-ranked. Blue Devils

The score doesn’ tindicaté it, but Davidson —
actually kept pace with the top-ranked team
in the nation for the first few minutes of
Tuesday’s game.

But eventually, Jason Williams and his
Duke team awakened and showed why they
are No. | in a 102-60 victory at Cameron
Indoor Stadium.

Davidson took a 13-9 lead early in the first
half. Led by Williams (25 points) and Nate
James (20 points), the Devils responded and

took a 16-point
lead into the
break. .

Emeka Erege
was the only
Davidson
player in double figures, scoring 10 points,
but he left the game early in the second half
after being hit in the face with an elbow and
did not return.
