THE DAVIDSONIAN

International

By Ayse Tek

Ihave always been aware of the animos-
ity between Turkey and Greece. Even my
history textbooks in high school held an un-
dercurrent of hostility, referring to the way
we Turks “kicked the Greeks into the depths
of the Aegean Sea” at the end of Turkish
Independence War (1919-1923) - a war that
announced our ultimate victory against the
Imperial powers and their puppets.

The fear of a potential war between
Greece and Turkey had seized my mind so
much that it also triggered my interest in
studying in the US - simply to keep out of the
picture, just in case.

I may have physically changed settings,
but asa political science major, I havé come
to realize that world politics is far from black
or white and the path to objectivity lies through
the appreciation of the gray. On the other
hand, I can’t say that I have mastered it yet
and this article will obviously provide a Turk-
ish view into the longstanding Greek-Turk-
ish conflict.

The roots of this conflict stem from the
sixth-century dominance of the Ottoman
Empire over Greece and Cyprus. This pro-
duced the ingrained feelings of dislike and
prejudice, if not retaliation, from Greek na-
tionalists towards the inheritors of the Em-
pire, the Turkish Republic. It displays itself
clearly in the political front, especially when
it comes to conflicts over the Aegean Islands
and Cyprus.

The Turkish Republic of Northern
Cyprus, that part of Cyprus that is only recog-
nized by Turkey, is referred to by Turks as
‘the juniorcountry’. The sympathy contained

Did you say
FREE PIZZA?!

J :

yy YY

1 ANANANANANANANANANANANANANANAN

NEws

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000:

The sparks that keep the Turkey-Greece fire blazing

in the phrase arises from the sadly manipu-
lated and distorted history of the Turks on the
island, which constitute thirty percent of the
population.

The Republic of Cyprus was originally
established by Turkish and Greek communi-
ties in 1960 and was based on the total equal-
ity of all citizens in all aspects of society. The
sovereignty of the state and the prohibition of
the island from partition or union with any
other state were confirmed by a Treaty of
Guarantee signed by Greece, Turkey and
Britain in 1960. In case the treaty was vio-
lated in any way, the guarantor states re-
served the right to take action to re-establish
the state of affairs. This right alone was one
of the articles comprising the treaty.

The peace, however, did not last long
and the Greeks began an ENOSIS campaign,
urging the union of the island with Greece. A
second Hellenistic state in the contemporary
world was in the minds of many, including
the Greek President of the Republic, Makarios,
as he noted ina speech. “Itis true that the goal
of our struggle is to annex Cyprus to Greece.”

Ethnic cleansing then began onthe Greek
side, ridding the Turkish community of all
their political and human rights and confin-
ing them into three percent of the island to
live in “open-air” prisons. As George W.
Ball,, former US-Under-Secretary of State,
commented in The Past Has Another Pat-
tern, “Makarios’s central interest was to block
off Turkish intervention so that he and his
Greek Cypriots could go on happily massa-
cring the Turkish Cypriots”.

Yes, Cyprus was invaded in 1974, but
contrary to popular belief, it was an attempt
by the Greek military to annex Cyprus.

Sponsored by SGA, RLO and The Annual Fund

To sigh up contact
or Residence Advisor!

Turkey’s subsequent intervention was only
to protect the Turkish minority and was com-
pletely legitimate and in accordance with the
fourth article of the treaty.

Turkish troops are still situated on the
border between the two nations, as are UN
soldiers. However, their sole aim is guaran-
teeing security for the lives of Turks, which
the Republic obviously has not been able to
provide. Their presence consequently leads
to a security dilemma, which is a
misperception of each adversary ’s aims. See-
ing the military build up at the border, the
Greeks feel that the Turks are preparing to
attack. Hence, they too start an incredible
military expenditure, including missiles from
Russia that are powerful enough to reach
Turkish shores.

Turkey, in turn, smells a rat. Even though
both sides seek self-protection, misperception
leads to a crisis. However, if the Greeks
blame Turkey for the present status quo, it
puzzles me that they don’t realize that if
Turkey had indeed set eyes on “more of
Cyprus,” they would have taken action twenty
six years ago when they had a great chance.

It is also very interesting to note the
Greek viewpoint that blames the Turkish
intervention of ’74 as the source of conflict on

the island, and totally disregards their own’

ENOSIS ideology prior to the partition. Sud-
denly, it is the Turks that intruded on the
social and economic harmony of the “hap-
pily-living” Cypriots.

Currently, the Greek-Cypriot govern-
ment is recognized as the only legal govern-
ment in Cyprus, although it lacks the partici-
pation and consent of 30% of the population.

At an international level, UN attempts

NAVARA YN RY YY YY YY YY YY YY YY YY

C omMing Soon to a Calling Center near —

The Spring Phonathon

March 14 thru April 6th

Mall Counselor

But do it TODAY because
to Miss out oh FREE PIZZA, GREAT
PRIZES and COLD MARD CASH!

ANNAN ANNAN AANA ANNAN ANNAN AN AAA ANN

have been an absolute failure. Today, the
Greek side of Cyprus seems to enjoy the
advantages of a unitary state, instead of a bi-
zonal one.

It is not to the government’s advantage,
therefore, to settle a peace and have to accept
Turks as equal co-founders of the Republic
once again. The status quo is definitely the
better alternative to a negotiated agreement
for them. After all, they are already interna-
tionally recognized.

The role and attitude. of the European
Union (EU) on this issue can be considered
pathetic and very humiliating for all Europe-
ans. A whole continent, bragging about the
democratic measures and values they em-
body, takes an-action contradicting those
same values by accepting a state into their
union that disregards the existence of thirty
percent of its population.

Under the 1960 Treaty, the Greek-Cyp-
riots have no right to make a unilateral appli-
cation to enter the EU without getting the
consent of the Turkish community. By letting
Cyprus in, the EU is obviously denying the
existence of a bi-communal presence on the
island. This is also contrary to UN efforts, as
it destroys the delicate balance in the negotia-
tion process.

It is true that Cyprus occupies a very
strategic spot in the heart of the Mediterra-
nean, but so does Turkey. The 21“ century has
begun with the world balancing itself in be-
tween the superpowers. Even though the in-
terests of the United States in Turkey cannot
be denied, it would be too naive to depict
Greece as a victim, considering their histori-

See Spark, page 6.

don’t waht

‘4
