By upore ELWELL -
taff Writer

Digitally speaking, life just got a little

‘ easier for Davidson students.

Anew web site called Catkid.com is a fun
and informational site created by Davidson
students, for Davidson students.

“We started this website to pick up where
the administration or the yellow pages leave
off,” said Jon Adler ’01, the site’s creator.
“The basic intention of Catkid.com is to be an
all-you-need-in-one-place type website.”

Ryan Auster ’02, who also works on the
site, said it’s designed to be a more student-
oriented source.

“You get a good idea from Davidson.edu
what the administration thinks and now
Catkid.com can let you know what your fel-
low peers think as well,” Auster said.

For example, the site provides students
with restaurant reviews and over 40 delivery

‘ menus.

“We will review restaurants and post
whether it is a casual restaurant, a good place
to go for a date or hang out with friends, or a
place where you need your parents to foot the
bill,” Adler said. ;

However, Adler and Auster agree the most
significant contribution Catkid.com makes
involves academics. Most of the academic
content of the site is currently links to aca-
demic resources and job openings, but plans
are in the works to include course evalua-
tions.

“We'd like students to have access to
whether this class is easy or hard, whether
that professor is fair, and also course syllabi,”
Adler said. “This to me is the most exciting
thing we are doing because it really makes
sure we as students know we are taking a
class that is good for us and helps us learn.”

But not only freshmen can benefit from this
site. Catkid.com has features that could be
very beneficial to upperclassmen as well.

_ “The class evaluations will be helpful to all
students,” Auster said. “They will be able to
know not only what their best friend thinks
about a course, but what a student three years
ahead of them thinks as well.”

10/15/00

Sick/injured student

A student was transported to a local hospi-
tal after injuring her ankle during a party at
the Pi Kappa Alpha house.

Sick/injured student
A student was transported to a local hospi-
tal for treatment.

Damage to property

arked vehicle in front of Turner house dam-
ged complainant’s vehicle. Scratches were
left on the left side of the vehicle’s hood.

Tent removed
An unauthorized tent was removed from in
front of Watts and Little halls.

10/14/00

Alcohol policy violation

An on duty police officer observed several
subjects participating in a drinking game at
the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity house. Dis-
ciplinary action is pending.

Alcohol policy violation

5 students received alcohol violations for
underage possession/consumption of alcohol
While attending a party at the Pi Kappa Alpha

ing.

10/08/00.
_ Disturbance

For 10/6/00 - 10/15/00

A bicycle that was leaning against her

-room and observed a marijuana pipe th

fraternity house. Disciplinary action is pend-

Officer responded to a roommate dispute!
The roommates were temporarily separated |

Alcohol policy violation

While investigating a complaint at
Richardson, an officer observed a student
enter the hallway and yell profane statements
ata RA and then run into aroom. The officer
advised the student to open the door. After
several requests, the student complied. The
officer observed that the student was intoxi-
cated. Further investigation revealed the
student was underage. Disciplinary action is
pending.

Possession of marijuana

Officer responded to a complaint of pos+:

sible marijuana usage in Sentelle. Upon
arrival the officer noticed an open door to 4
a

contained marijuana on a table in the room.
The occupants of the room denied ownership
of the. paraphernalia and marijuana. The

occupants of the room are responsible.for the
items located in the room. Disciplinary ac

tion is pending.
10/06/00
Vehicle accident
Vehicle #1 was attempting to back up to the

‘loadin g dock of the Student Union when it hit) -

vehicle #2, which was parked in ano parking
zone. There were no injuries.

Public Safety & Campus Police

Students will soon be able. to access links on local Hanig-cuts, Erin Berry

OF ssiininas

restaurant menus, jobs, and even course descriptions.

Although course evaluations can be great
for students, some of the faculty does not like
the idea.

“I wish I could tell them not to worry,”
Adler said. “We will edit the evaluations
before we post them, and make sure they are
appropriate. We will get the message across
without being insulting.” »

Additionally, Catkid.com includes a sec-
tion called Out’n About, which includes links
to sites listing events in Davidson and Char-
lotte, and the opportunity to join an e-mail list
to find out more.

“We want to help students know what is
going on,” Adler said. “Out’n About contains
information about happenings in the vicinity

of Davidson, which may be of interest to
students, but which they may otherwise not
find out about.”

As well as food, entertainment, and aca-
demics, Catkid.com contains a feature called
Student Showcase, a mini-online magazine
that includes an opinion of the week section,
an outlet for anyone to send in their thoughts
and ideas. All students are also welcome to
contribute to the photography and artwork
sections of Student Showcase.

“This is your site as a Davidson student and
member of the Davidson community,” Adler
said. “We are open to suggestions and we
want your help.”

New pass/fail policy under scrutiny

By Aaron Houck
Editor-in-chief

In an attempt to reduce their stress levels,
hundreds of students each semester opt to
take courses on a pass/fail basis. By taking
a class .in pass/fail form, students receive
credit for the course without receiving a grade
that counts toward their grade point average.
Last spring, the faculty passed a proposal that
changed Davidson’s on pass/fails.

Under the old system, students wishing to
take a course pass/fail had to fill out a form

and get their advisor’s signature in the first °

three weeks of the semester. The forms could
also be revoked within the first nine weeks of
the semester.

“In effect, it seemed that we were playing
with deadlines instead of accomplishing a
purpose,” declared Dr. Hansford Epes, Reg-
istrar. “I initially proposed a change in the
policy. The idea was ‘let’s have one deadline
instead of two.’”

Epes brought his concerns before the Edu-
cational Policy Committee of the Faculty.
After weeks of deliberation, the committee
passed the proposal for a new policy. The
resolution then went before the faculty, which
also passed it.

The new policy, which came into effect
this semester, gives students six weeks to turn
in their pass/fail forms, but the deadline for
revoking the pass/fail is the same day. Stu-
dents are still permitted six pass/fail credits
for their Davidson careers.

The old policy required a great deal of
paperwork that burdened the Registrar’s Of-
fice, students, and advisors. Rather than
discussing the use of pass/fail with their advi-
sors, students were simply having the advi-
sors sign the forms and turn them in. “The
advising that was supposed to go into the

‘ decision was not,” explained Epes. “So we

took the advisor’s signature off and put-the

. advice on the form.”
Compiled by, «
Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of

Epes believes that the new policy has “made
life simpler for students, faculty and staff’
despite the fact that there has not been a

significant change in the number of students

.applying for pass/fail credit. According to

Epes, there are approximately 500 people
utilizing the pass/fail system this semester
compared to some 600 in the spring. How-
ever, Epes stressed that Davidson usually
sees a higher number of pass/fails in the
spring because underclassmen save their pass/
fail for the second semester.

Some students, however, are unhappy with
the present system. Jaclyn Beaghan ’03 said
“J don’t see why it is so hard for the college to
allow students to withdraw from pass/fail
after six weeks. It seems reasonable that one
could not decide to pass/fail in the middle of
the semester, but rather absurd that if the
grade is good, one could not revoke. The
system should be designed to benefit the
students.”

Dr. Clark Ross, Vice President of Aca-
demic Affairs and Dean of Faculty, who
chaired the Educational Policy Committee,
expressed his approval of the changed policy.
“T felt that it would lead to a better use of pass/.
fails,” he stressed. “[The new policy will]
encourage students to take courses outside of
their area of expertise, rather than use pass/
fails as grade insurance.”

Epes, too, showed concern about students
becoming too dependent on the pass/fail sys-
tem. “Idon’tthink that a high use of pass/fails
looks good on a transcript,” Epes stated. “It

‘can look like [the student] is taking the easy
_Way out.”

Looking at the pass/fail policies of compa-
rable institutions reveals that Davidson is
generally more generous toward students than
other liberal arts colleges. Many schools do
not. allow pass/fail credits to be applied to
core requirements while Davidson does.

The current policy seems to satisfy the
faculty and the Registrar’s office, but “we’ll
have to see what the students think.,” notes
Tadd Bevan ’02, who served as an SGA
ae to the Educational Policy Commit-

. “Unless there is a great call for change.
r think the policy will stay the way it is.’
