Che

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“The South's Foremost
College Weekly”
Sd
EstaBLISHED 1914

AL E-N.DA

Co-ed eating house on the go.

NEWS 3

Davidsont

LIB Ee RT AS

| ae 8 P<

THURSDAY

ff fe” ie
NIPARGIE, 6,

SGA brings about world peace.

VIEWPOINT 8

OBA

2000

It’s all about attitude. Davidson Baseball.

‘SPORTS 10

By ALISON KALetr
Editor in Chief

Early Thursday morning Davidson losta
respected professor and active community
member as Professor of Spanish Lois Anne
“Sandy” Kemp passed away after suffering a
massive stroke on Monday afternoon.

Dr. Kemp, Spanish department founder
and member of the Davidson faculty since
1972, was remembered on Saturday at a me-
morial service held at Davidson United Meth-
odist Church where she was an active mem-
ber.

Dr. Kemp’s three older sisters, Winifred
Husted, Grace Harris, and Martha McKnight,
remembered their younger sibling’ s indepen-
dent and giving spirit.

They described events from their child-
hood years in Angola such as when a “mis-
chievous” Dr. Kemp snuck away from her

‘ studies in order to escort a team of oxen.

Dr. Kemp’s neighbor, Cynthia Long,
remembered how: Dr. Kemp would pick up
trash while taking walks around the neigh-
borhood.

“She wanted to leave the world acleaner
place,”’ said Davidson College Chaplain Rob
Spach.

“Each person who spoke emphasized
her independent spirit, life-long commitment
to the less fortunate, and her priority of social
justices over material goods for herself,” said
Spanish Department Chair Mary Vasquez. .
“She lived simply, so that others might sim-

ply live,” said Dr. Kemp’s sisters.

Dr. Kemp was born in Angola in 1928
and lived there with her sisters and Methodist
missionary parents until age seventeen. After
returning to the United States, Dr. Kemp was
admitted to Allegheny College and later trans-
ferred to Middlebury College. She went on to
study in Belgium on a Fulbright Fellowship
and receive her masters degree in Interna-
tional Relations from the University of Den-
ver and her Ph.D. in Spanish from the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison. She later taught
at DePauw, Oho Wesleyan, Wisconisn-Madi-
son, and Franklin and Marshall in Pennsylva-
nia before coming to Davidson 28 years ago.

Dr. Kemp’s childhood in Angola ex-
posed her to the subjugation of the African
people and led her to dedicate her life to
helping those less fortunate improve their
lives.

“Witnessing that injustice gave her pas-
sion for the rest of her life,” said Spach. “She
believed in the empowerment of the poor for
their own good.”

In the classroom, Dr. Kemp combined
her dedication to helping those in need with
her love of languages.

“She was a demanding teacher,” said
freshman Eric Ehinger. “If you took advan-
tage of that as a motivator, however, she did
a lot for broadening people's perspectives
and gaining insight into what goes on in the
world.”

“She was a rigorous professor,” said Dr.
Kemp’s AT and work study student Carlos

Recycling returns to Davidson

Dave Love
Staff Writer

After a brief hiatus, a recycling program
is back in place at Davidson College. This
program will allow students to recycle alumi-
num cans and office paper products in bins
located in all dorms, Chambers,
computer labs, and on
Patterson Court.

The bins are plas-
tic trash cans, col-
ored gray with blue
and green tops that
have size-appro-
priate slots to ac-
cept intended
contents.

The existing
small blue bins -
will no longer be
used for recycling.

In the coming weeks a
large recycling canister
will be placed behind Mar-
tin Court F, where glass, plastic,
newspapers and magazines can be re-
cycled.

The Student Government Association
began work into the development of a new
recycling plan last September, when the sen-
ate identified the matter as one if its five top
priorities for the coming year.

Class of 2000 Senator Whitney Frazier
was appointed chair of the committee, and
she quickly began collaboration with ongo-

9

RECYCLES.

ing efforts from the Environmental Action
Committee and the Physical Plant.

The student initiative has been long in
the works. At the November 9 meeting of the
SGA, Frazier said, “We're pushing the ad-
ministration to prepare a proposal for a new
recycling plan on campus. We’re trying to

work through some

problems...It’s just taking

some time right now.”

In March, an

elated Frazier an-

nounced that the

bins had been or-

dered and would

be installed

shortly. Most of

them arrived on

residence hall

floors this past
week.

The Recycling

Committee is begin-

ning a semester-long
effort to educate the cam-
pus about recycling. With 45
members, the EAC is excited to see the
program off the ground. The new bins are in
place and they want students to take an active
role, namely by putting only appropriate
materials in the bins so as not to contaminate
the recyclable goods.

“Now that we’ve got this program we
want to keep it,” said sophomore Maggie
Kozicharow, a co-chair of the recycling com-
mittee. “Recycling is back.”

}

Lacayo. “She took her work very seriously in
that sense. She was always busy reading and
cutting out articles to share and generate
opinions and ideas.”

“She challenged her students with rigor-
ous courses and high expectations,” said Dean
of Faculty Clark Ross. “They were expected
to learn (and even to like) irregular Spanish
verbs, to pronounce properly, and to explore
the culture and politics of Latin America- all
within the same course.”

“In her classes students not only learned
the Spanish language, but the human compo-
nent of Spanish,” said Spanish professor Luis
Pefia.

Also, Dr. Kemp volunteered with Habi-
tat for Humanity, implemented study abroad
programs in Spain and Latin America, and
actively supported and participated in out-
reach campaigns in Central and South
Aimerica such as Doctors for Global Health,
Carolina Interfaith Taskforce for Central
America, and the “Clean your Desk” school
supply collection for rural Latin American
schools.

‘Dr. Kemp was a pioneering spirit in that
she was one of the first women professors at
Davidson,” said Vasquez. “She influenced
students to want to explore and go to the
Hispanic world, urging students to go to
Central and South America and lend efforts
to the society. She believed in trying to make
a difference in the community -which she
defined in global terms.”

“Dr. Kemp was not an arm-chair sup-
porter,” said Religion professor Dave Kaylor
who worked with Dr. Kemp on numerous
peace and justice related issues. “She cared at
a personal and activist level. When she went
to a country she stayed with and got to know
people. She went there and engaged with

them. She was really a hands on kind of

person.”

For Dr. Kemp, faith and helping the less
fortunate were inexorably linked. She was
actively involved in the Davidson United
Methodist Church’s Mission Committee,

66 Quips ana

Dr. Sandy Kemp

Alternative Christmas Gifts Fair, and Room
in the Inn.

“She worshipped a God who blesses the
poor, and warns the rich, in a world that does
just the opposite;” said Davidson United
Methodist Church Rev. Andy Baxter at
Saturday’s memorial service. “God used
Sandy to show us the way that God most often
works in the world.”

This year, Dr. Kemp taught Spanish 101
and 102 while she continued her involvement
in planning mission trips to Nicaragua, Habi-
tat for Humanity, and other community ori-
ented activities.

“She had unrelenting energy,” Lacayo
added.

Memorials may.be made to Kemp Scholar-
ship Fund, Davidson United Methodist
Church, PO Box 718, Davidson, NC 28036;
Our Towns Habitat PO Box 1088, Davidson,
NC 28036; and Chaplain’s Office, Davidson
College, PO Box 1719, Davidson, NC, 28036.

A Statement on Recycling
from the Environmental Action Committee

To preserve the environment, Davidson College is committed to recycling. In order
to build and maintain a recycling program at Davidson, full participation of all students and
the entire college community is imperative. To meet this objective, we are revamping how
we handle all waste at the college. We will attempt to ensure that recyclables are properly
processed at appropriate facilities. We are making every effort to have new equipment and
a more efficient and consistent waste management system, complete with a recycling
program. This renewed effort signals Davidson’s promise to improve the environment
through recycling. Over the past six months, Davidson College has investigated ways to
update waste management and recycling on campus. Davidson Physical Plant staff have
visited the main recycling center in Charlotte, met with county representatives, and
conducted research on other college and university recycling systems.”

INTL. COMMENTARY ....:....
EUPIA Ly 2553 shat saccoxs bosses:
ROIS) sis cisersvansassosesegssdetsays

First Class Mail

saa 4
10 U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1

Davidson, NC 28036

