10°

_THE DAVIDSONIAN

EDITORIALS

OPINIONS

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

On MLK Day: :
Immutable declarations

Barely one year ago, this student body rallied with a vigilance and impetus epitomizing all
that the Davidson community stands for.

Students from varied and diverse backgrounds united with faculty members, administrators,
and the local community to issue a decisive rebuke against the type of insular hatred embodied in
those two stinging words adorning the infamous flyer last autumn.

Their efforts were momentous, and their immediate legacy nearly epic-Charlotte news crews
swarmed to small-town Davidson to headline the story of our decision to honor Martin-Luther
King’s birth. But one year after our first ever Martin Luther King observation, an unfortunate
calendar orientation threatened to undermine the fledgling tradition.

Admittedly, the conflict was unavoidable-the nationally-celebrated Martin Luther King
holiday happened to fall on the first day of the spring semester (as established by the faculty
executive committee years in advance). Nonetheless, this year’s calendar threatened to turn
Martin Luther King Day into just another day tacked on to the winter break.

But the students, faculty, administrators, and community leaders behind these vigorous
efforts refused to let that happen.

Thanks to their efforts, MLK Day 2000 was a “day on,” not a day off. Over 50 Davidson
students served 200 community children at King Day For Kids a week ago Monday. And that
afternoon, a seminar series offered fascinating opportunities to learn about the Civil Rights
Movement and continuing civil rights issues. Finally, Dr. Marian Wright Edelman, of the National
Children’s Defense Fund and this year’s Reynolds Lecturer, addressed the community in a jam-
packed Love Auditorium.

To the organizers behind MLK Day 2000: We at The Davidsonian would like to offer our
utmost commendations on behalf of a grateful community. You honored a heroic movement w ith
vitality and community-consciousness upholding the greatest of Davidson traditions.

To the students who returned to campus for these festivities: The immutable declaration
against divisive hatred offered by your presence will echo throughout this campus for months to
come.

To the faculty executive committee: We urge you to champion this cause by making Martin
Luther King Day a cornerstone around which to plan future academic calendars. The observance
is an integral part of our ongoing efforts to heal the wounds caused by centuries of hate. Just as
importantly, though, it is an opportunity for students to embrace some of the core values.of this
institution: it is an opportunity to lead, an opportunity to learn, and an opportunity to serve.

On Self-selection Night:
‘“How close?”

Friday night’s self-selection festivities marked, for most people, the highlight of Patterson
Court life at Davidson, as upperclassmen and -women joined their new members in a frenzied
celebration. Clearly, there was cause for such celebration. For many students, at Davidson and
across the nation, a social affiliation is an integral, defining component of the college experience.

And for the overwhelming margin of Davidson students, the late-night revelry was an
enjoyable experience. But for some others, it was darn near tragic. Two students were hospitalized
that night, according to Residence Life sources. ‘Any time a student goes to the hospital because
of overconsumption,” said Dean of Students Tom Shandley, “that’s frightening and it’s something
to worry about.” And those close calls left some wondering, “Just how close did we come? How
close did we come to adding Davidson to the long list of colleges that have recently lost students
to binge drinking?” Anestimated 50 college students each year will plummet from jolly inebriation
into untimely death, adding their names to the likes of Scott Krueger at M.L.T. and Leslie Anne
Baltz at the University of Virginia. We can wait until one of our own makes national news, and then
mourn about how “We never could have expected this...’” Or we can take some responsibility for
ourselves and our friends and respect the fact that alcohol is a pastime with potential for tragedy.

With just a little caution we can maintain the popular tradition of self-selection night. If we
fail to exercise that discernment, we could easily become the next campus to learn that when binge
drinking of alcohol is involved there's a fine line between revelry and sorrow.

Che Dabitdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors in Chief

MIKE ANDERSON .
News Editors . : Features Editor
SETH DAVIS ALISQNKALEFE™s. CARRIE RILEY
ANN GREGORY fT pe
i pees M. > sey \ Op-Ed Editor
Sports Editor UES gerne RETS . ERICA SCHWARTZ
BURGIN HARDIN PETERCLARK pa ee
poy DAVID JOHNSTON -

i
&

Executive Lay out ‘Efitor Assistant Businté Mandees

BEN covneetps

JUSTIN OSSMAN*s
WILL PARKER wale Cc

Editor Emeritus Techno ‘anager

)VING a
OWARD i
Editor Emeritus

MICHAEL KRUSE

WES GOLDSBERRY CADER HOWARD

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www.davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

Grace from the Grande

Exposure, vulnerability and desire. These
three nouns describe the two wild experiences I
had the first two weeks of January: traveling for
nine days along the Rio Grande by canoe and re-
entering “civilized society.” I am both deeply
grateful and frustrated by the wildness I encoun-
tered through those experiences.

Exposure: As we completed our 30 hour
drive from Davidson to Big Bend National Park,
we finally got far enough away from the light

pollution of large cities to see stars that we had’

forgotten existed. The passage in Genesis, when
God is talking to Abram about his descendants
numbering as many as the stars, made sense to me.
The temperature dove to a crisp 14 degrees Fahr-
enheit, and we were warned not to leave tooth-
paste in our tents as the smell entices javelinas.
We hiked 12 miles in the Chisos mountains,
created by long-extinct volcanoes, and fervently
searched for unique bird species. We approached
the rim of the mountains looking out into what
appears superficially as vast desolation. A smog
hung reluctantly to the mountains in the vista —
a visitor from a coal plant in Mexico.

"We got on the river to begin our desert
odyssey. Large U.S. cities,
ranchers and farmers drain the water before it has
the opportunity to travel on the last leg ofits return
to the sea, Greeting us at the put-in was an
abandoned, U.S. owned Union Carbide plant in
Mexico. That was the last sign of human con-
struction for the next week as we journeyed to
return to a place that many in our generation have
never been: aplace of hard, physical labor, as well
as submission to and respect for nature’s power.

The days were filled with paddling down the
river despite the frequent up-river wind, avoiding
being pulled into the river’s eddies, collectively
preparing food, and sitting around a campfire
with our heads heavenward. We waited for celes-
tial signs and were occasionally rewarded with a
shooting star, always grateful for the earth shine
of the moon, moon shadows and the challenge of
retrieving the names of various constellations.
Conscious of our inherited tradition of naming
particular collections of stars, we humbly pon-
dered the diversity of humanity when we recog-
nized other cultures’ identification of the same
distant, perplexing, awesome spots of light. We
set up camp and took it down — perpetual creation
and destruction, incessant motion...just like the
river with its tracks observable in the canyon
walls, just like the mountain sides with rock slides
and stone atrophied by the desire of the river to
push through creating a new path.

When we saw the glimmering sun light off a
stop sign near the river, we knew our return to
“normality” was immanent. The take-out road
was arduous — 22 miles of roughly hewn road
complete with jack rabbits, the size of medium
size dogs, that would scamper across the path-
way. The sign that graced a fork in the road stated
that “All trespassers would be shot on site.”
Better watch out, we thought, though we had paid
the fee for using the rancher’s road. The drive
back to Davidson went quickly. Not much had
Changed it seemed — still the predictable truckers
competing with our van and canoe filled trailer,
omni-present Golden Arches in the distance, gas
stations, radio stations — it all seemed the same, in
a way.

Upon my re-entry, I noticed the lack of stars
in the sky and their replacements with radio and
cell phone towers, flourescent street lamps, and
planes’ lights. We tried to identify the military
planes that soared far less gracefully than the
white-tailed hawk and pre-mature bald eagles we
noted. These testaments to humanity’s creativity
and will soared nonetheless. At the same time, we
used our binoculars to spot birds from I-20 at 70
miles per hour. Not quite the same experience as

The river was low.

when paddling at about 4 miles per hour but still
fun. Inoticeda change in my site as we drove along.

Desire: 1 had a desire to know what type of
bird captivated my mind for a few passing seconds.
I wanted to know what types of trees created the
blur in my peripheral vision; I wanted to hold on to
the sunset I saw in the rearview mirror. My desire
for the knowledge of names was not in order to
subdue those creatures that danced through my
limited perceptions. Rather, it was in order to gain
familiarity with those creatures. What are you?
How do we, as users of a finite language, attempt to
describe you? Like in the second creation story in
Genesis when God places Adam and Eve in the
garden for the purpose of maintaining it- to have
familiarity with other beings, human, animal and
plants, is a method of increasing awareness and
appreciation.

In the desert, my desires were simple and
perhaps more basic. I desired to get through the day
with as few cacti spines planted in my epidermis as
possible. I desired physical challenge on the white
water; I desired relationship, familiarity and knowl-
edge of other humans in the group; | wanted to
know where the hot springs were in which I could
soak my dirty body and find relatively clean water;
part of me wanted to know where the river was
going around the bend and how
would remain viable.

long the river

Vulnerability:
nerability. In the Rio Grande, we experienced
vulnerability on the most basic levels: ‘a flash flood
could come and wipe out our campsite, a rattle-
snake could be in the reeds we waddled through,
exposure to the temperature differential, the risk of
infection from the polluted Rio Grande water,
boulders tumbling from the mountain side, and
cacti; living prickly reminders that we had visited
their habitat. This second wilderness in which we
struggle to survive and so much of which humans
have constructed I am also struck by our vulnerabil-
ily.

Along with desire comes vul-

I struggle to turn off the omni-present voices
telling me to desire perfection through possessing
the latest you-name-it: hairstyle, book, computer
program, experience, etc. The vultures of culture,
as the Indigo Girls sing, squawk that the good life
can be bought with money or intelligence or con-
nections. I yearn for invulnerability as | am re-
minded that the commoditization of life is tragic
and denies the reality of being. As this is my final
semester at Davidson, I am filled with desires and
hopes for the future.

What can one make of the wilderness experi-
ences — the wilderness of the outside, the wilder-
ness of our lives and relationships? The trip to the
Rio Grande affirmed my creaturehood. I lie on a
predators’ food chain, though I successfully shield
myself from the predators of nature but undoubt-
edly succumb more than one should to the preda-
tors of culture. I left the Rio with different eyes; this
change of sight (albeit small) is justly described as
grace. I leave humbled by the’ complexity and
diversity of creation as I experience it — on an
arduous. path, never sure of what tomorrow holds
and trying (often futilely) to be prepared, I recog-
nize the false dualism of human civilization and
nature; we are creatures, part of nature, though we
are frequently blind to the reality of our creature-
hood. I run on Grey Road and view the oaks and
pines, the cleared fields with goats, horses, chick-
ens, and cows and know that I am immersed in
nature and nature immerses me.

Just before we took out our canoes, I remarked
joshingly that we would return to our human state
after getting off the river and cleaning up. Another
trip member remarked: “Funny, I feel most human
when I am out here.”

‘Joslyn Ogden ’00

ee not aaanly
ubseriptions c cost cou 00

