9 _THE DAVIDSONIAN. .

VIEWPOINT

THURSDAY, APRIL 6, 2000

Can’t we all just get along?

Spring is in the air. Everywhere you look
and everything you see glows with spring.
From wide open windows with blinds drawn...
to the buzzing bees that have been flying in
and out of the windows, pollinating the flow-
ering plants on the window sills... to the
bickering students throwing their plants at
each other... it is definitely spring time in
Davidson.

Did something stand out in that last para-
graph? Now, I know what you are thinking,
“what does pollinating mean?” Or did you
really want to know why I added the “bicker-
ing students” in that picturesque vision of
spring? ;

I will tell you: Webster’s Dictionary de-
fines “pollination” as: “the transfer of pollen
from an anther to the stigma in angiosperms or
from the microsporangium to the micro Pyle
in gymnosperms.” There now, isn’t your thirst
for knowledge satiated for today?

Okay, okay... As I am sure many of my
loyal readers have noticed (don’t worry, I
understand if you are using the paper as a head
rest for a quick nap and happened to notice
this article...) along with the buzzing bees
and flowering flora there seems to be an aura
of tension in the air in this quaint little college
community.

Everyone knows what I mean. Maybe
you first noticed it when you were studying in
the basement of the library and someone
sneezed and you screamed out “go sneeze
somewhere else you allergy-prone ne’er do
well, I have a physics test tomorrow!”

It might have been that time when you
awoke after a four hour nap to the sound of
birds chirping, only to hurl your textbook out
the window at them.

Or maybe it was the moment you figured
out which window would make the best snip-
ing position.

Whenever your specific moment of
epiphany came, the realization was the same:
Something is wrong with this campus.

(Don’t worry... don’t study in the li-
brary, I missed the birds, and I never seriously
considered. ..well...let’s just leave it at that...)

What has happened to me...to us? Pa-
tience has been wearing thin amongst the
denizens of Davidson. Could it be that the
lengthy term papers, the group projects, and
the new websites that we have to create in
addition to our normal punishing workload
has begun to affect us? Is it possible that after
four hours of sleep, three hours of class, two
hours of work, and four hours of studying
physics that we have simply lost the friendly
“Davidson greeting” that is so famous?

I don’t think so.

Ldo, however, think that if those damned
birds don’t stop their gabbing in the next thirty
seconds, they are going to have a date with

Webster.

Note: There are a few things that Andrew
would like to mention... First of all, any
inferences, conjectures, or blatant threats that
he made in this article to people, plants, and
animals were unintentional and should, like
everything else he writes; not be taken seri-
ously. This brings him to his second point. In
regards to last week’s article about Vail Com-
mons, while he still believes that the food
there is quite, and I quote, “yucky,” ithas been
brought to his attention that his words of-
fended many of the workers at Vail. He would
like to reiterate that his article is meant purely
for enjoyment and comic relief and should not
be taken as an attack on any individuals or
their job. Finally, if anyone knows how to find
the Moment of Inertia for a pulley-system,
you should have told him last week!
Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Why do all the international Students sit together in the Commons?

In my class on social problems we are
reading the book Why are all the Black Kids
sitting together in the Cafeteria? Inspired by
this book, I'd like to talk about my.experience
as an international student here at Davidson.
I will do this by trying to answer the question
“Why are all the International Students sit-
ting together in the Cafeteria?”

If you have a meal plan and choose to
immerse yourself in the delights of our school
cafeteria, i.e. the Commons, you might have
already witnessed this phenomenon (unless
you were too busy eating your cheese strata,
of course). A single table that seats far more
people than the poor table can fit. Once, I
think we fit nine péople in one of those small
square tables. If you look closely at that group
you will notice a few things. First, they look
very different from each other. Second, most
of them speak English with different accents.
Have you ever wondered why they always

sitstogether?

Let me start by describing an interna-
tional student. An international student is one
who was born and lives outside the United
States. This includes those, like myself, who
live in the US but were born or lived a good
part of their lives abroad. Also included in
this category are Americans who either lived
abroad for a while or were raised by foreign
parents. I do-not use the term. ‘international
student’ as ‘defined by the school. Instead, I
call international students those who will-
ingly. choose to identify themselves in this
way.

We international students come to David-
son with a unique background and culture.
First and foremost, we don’t have the oppor-
tunity to go home on weekends and on breaks.
Some of us don’t even get to go home during
the Christmas break. We leave our homes and
families to journey hundreds of miles with

the knowledge that it will be several months
before we home or family again.

As we step into our “New World”, we
face the contrast between our group identity
and the dominant American culture. Our ini-
tial response is one of defense and isolation.
We have to choose between assimilation or to
accept ourselves as the “others.” Dealing
with this inner conflict as individuals, we find
others that are facing the same struggles.

United in this struggle to define our
identities, we are able approach each other in
a singular way. Then, all the cultural differ-
ences among us become something to be
celebrated and affirmed. We observe our
“otherness” in each other’s “otherness.”

As we progress, we find that'we actually
have many things in common. I call this an
“international culture.” We like acertain kind
of music, we’ve all watched the same car-
toons growing up and cheered for the same
sides in worldwide sports events. Most of us

have an unwavering enthusiasm for World
Cup soccer. We share our memories of unfor-
gettable plays and games. Mixed emotions
emerge and we realize that, after all, people
from the other side of the world are a Jot like
us.

Since Davidson usually keeps us all so
busy, all these processes unfold over the
lunch or dinner table. Although we do inter-
acton other occasions, the ‘international table’
is an integral part of our lives at Davidson. It
is a time and a place for bonding and engag-
ing in group procrastination before we go our
separate ways for the rest of the day.

Developing an international identity is
an exciting experience. Although it is hard to
define such an identity, we know how real it
is to all of us. We recognize that every time
we sit at one of those crowded tables. Lunch
or dinner at the ‘international table’ is more
than a meal. It is a time feel at home again.

Elias Kruger ‘02

finally recognized our distress.”

be able to handle.

Gonzalez.

SGA declares treatment of
Elian Gonzalez an injustice!

Using recent momentum gained from their influential condemnation of the South
Carolina confederate flag last week, SGA senators motioned this Tuesday to focus on
international affairs. The country is still feeling the shockwaves launched by last week’s
resolution to bring down South Carolina’s treasured civil war battle flag. _

“We've been trying to get their attention for months,” exclaimed NAACP represen-
tative and chairman Julian Bond. “Thank goodness a powerhouse like the Davidson SGA

‘Davidson SGA emerged into the political arena after recognizing the difficulties
national organizations have encountered in swaying South Carolina’s government. “Who
needs Jesse Jackson on your side when you have the Davidson SGA?” Bond continued.

In response to political pressure the Davidson SGA has applied, the southern
government has been very compliant. In recent response to the Davidson SGA resolution
on the flag affair, South Carolina Governor Jim H. Hodges wrote, “It'll be down by
8:30am. Hope the smoking debate is going alright. Bummer about the cable situation.”

Theories abound as to why Governor Hodges responded so rapidly to the SGA
mandate, In addition to the obvious overwhelming influence of the student government,
one dominant theory which political pundits have bounced around has been the threat of
a Davidson student march — something that people speculate Columbia police would not

“The potential for an out-of-control riot wyenia be too likely,” states Columbia’ s
police commissioner. “The numbers scare us.”

_ The most recent action of the Davidson SGA flexing their newfound political muscle
has been a declaration of the injustice Ampcent on 6-year-old Cuban immigrant Elian

~ Appalachian State: Basketball Benois Boss Desctanee questioned | the motives behind
n. “Too bad Coach McKillop can trecruit Gonzalez for his team now. He’ $ going

to be an American once SGA’s endorsement is heard.”
Th ecorse croc sl mt cael cineerune yi koeiaieciaration haw’ now
ands notlesil ruatiar, Andnow, having 2 Raia power, I Davianga s

The Dabidsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

Features Editgr
CARRIE RILEY

Layout Manager
CADER HOWARD

Editors in Chief
MIKE, ANDERSON
“KEISON KALETT~

Executive avout Editor.
BEN C @VINGTON

Business Managers

Advertising Managers «Paty otkesron Coerdinator
PETER CLARK STO! ROSHAN PAUL
DAVID JOHNSTON

Assistant Business Manager
PATRICK CLARK

Ad Designés: s

Layout Editors cape ae on CINDY CLARK
ALEX CALHOUN . _ANA SPECHAR
F. JUSTIN OSSMANN
Copy Fator, Editor Emeritus
“ANNA ERIKSSON = WES GOLDSBERRY

al

Sports Editor
BURGIN HARDIN

3 Viewpoint Editor
ERICA SCHWARTZ

Inte rational News

Web Editor
STEPHEN GAMBOA

Gircilation Managers

Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html.

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please a
: Box 219, Day

