10

THE DAVIDSONIAN __

PTS AIR REI

The Davidsonian
Editorial

As the general election campaign heats
up, the gun control debate has become a
burning issue.

Since casting a dramatic tie-breaking
vote in favor of a Senate gun control mea-
sure last May, Al Gore has become a cham-
pion in the fight for safer gun laws.

With public sentiment firmly in ‘his
corner, Gore has responded to a string of
national tragedies by sponsoring legislation

Gun Control: A debate of Safety

shootings because they help him to further
his political agenda. “He’s willing to accept
acertain level of killing to further his politi-
cal agenda,” LaPierre told The Washington
Post. “And the vice-president too.”

Clinton responded calling such charges
“wounded rhetoric” from a “ruthlessly bru-
tal” special interest group.

And the NRA is indeed wounded. The
latest tragedy in Michigan, in which a six-

buyers at gun shows.

The National Rifle Association has re-
sponded in force—raising nearly $30 mil-
lion between its Institute for Legislative
Action and its Political Victory Fund. But
for all its fundraising prowess, the organiza-
tion has shown little ability to engage in
meaningful political discourse.

Seemingly every statement issued over
the past few weeks by Wayne LaPierre,
Executive Vice-president of the Associa-
tion, has been utterly laughable, if not repul-
sive.

Their latest charge claims that Presi-
dent Clinton intentionally tolerates school

that would re- year-old
quire common- ¢¢ ° ° ° ge « used an un-
sense restric. 1 We National Rifle Association is |... pis-
tions like safety- quickly becoming the laughing tol to shoot
locks and crimi- . cas, 99 and kill a
nal background = Stock of American politics. first-grade
checks for pro- classmate,
spective gun utterly un-

dermined one of the Association’s last re-
maining arguments: the notion that “Guns
don’t kill people, people kill people.”

When six year olds are killing class-
mates, few can rationally disagree with trig-
ger-lock safety. devices that would make
handguns safer, much like child-proof caps
are mandated on Tylenol bottles and seat
belts are required in automobiles.

The National Rifle Association is
quickly become the laughing stock of Ameri-
can politics. And more and more it seems,
the biggest disservice they can do to them-
selves is to keep on talking.

Che Dabtdsontan

ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

News Editors
. SETH DAVIS
ANN GREGORY

;

f " sin ine on és

Editors. in Chief
MIKE ANDERSON

Sports Editor
BURGIN HARDIN

eed Op-Ed Editor

NGTON » ; “NER A SCHWARTZ

A SPECHAR

Editor Emeritus
WES GOLDSBERRY

. Founded in 1914
“The South’s Foremost College Weekly”

You can also read The Davidsonian on the Internet at
http://www. davidson. edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.htnl.

The Babidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the students of
_ Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all correspondences to: The
_ Wavidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC 28036. Phone (704) 892-2148 or -2149. E-
mail Davidsonian @ davidson. edu. Rak are located on the third floor of the Union.

Fear and Loathing

THURSDAY, MARCH 23, 2000

in Washington, DC

Wanted: Hard worker willing to toil many
hours for no pay at a menial job as a paper-
pusher while wasting his/her life-savings on
expensive housing and ridiculously-priced
food. Intrigued? Look closer. I am sure that
you will be surprised to know that there are,
in fact, tens of thousands of people who are
seeking this very type of job. Still confused?
Allow me to clarify for those of you who still
have cognitive reasoning abilities. This job
is, well, an internship.

Yes, that’s right. The internship has be-
come the goal and bane of every college
student’s life. Do you want a good job when
you get out of college? You need the experi-
ence of an internship. Hoping to get a job this
summer? Do

more employable. The key, of course, is his
gullibility. If the intern does not believe that
he is gaining “experience” that will secure
success later on in life, then he would not be
willing to collate papers for 10 hours a day, 5
days a week. So, a national propaganda cam-
paign ensued which combined the efforts of
colleges, businesses, and parents who wanted
the kids out of the house. It worked! Before
they knew it, the interns were piling in. They
even had to begin a screening process to
determine who would be the hardest worker
at the most menial of tasks. That brings us

right up to the present.
The present is where I am, or at least
where I was last time I checked. Oh, dear, I
wonder where I

you have any
experience?
Where are you
expected to ob-
tain this experi-
ence? An intern-

college student’s life.”

. am... Oh, never

‘The internship has become _ mind... As you
h

the goal and bane of every guessed, am

looking for an
internship. As I

ship. And, of
course, if you ever entertain the notion of
graduate school...you guessed it...an intern-
ship is a vital part of your resume.

I think the entire idea behind the intern-

_ ship came into being around the time of

Reconstruction. Washington D.C., located
south of the Mason-Dixon Line, was on the
brink of economic collapse. Luckily, the sys-
tem did not collapse and today Washington is
a booming metropolis teeming with govern-
ment workers inhabiting buildings no taller
than the Washington Monument. How was
our economy saved? The ingenious idea of
the intern was born.

The intern has become the modern ver-
sion of an indentured servant. An intern is
expected to provide his own clothing, food
and shelter. In addition he (or she) does not
expect to be paid. The intern wants to be there
having been tricked into believing that the
“experience” will make him better, wiser and

have discovered
in the past few weeks, there are plenty of
opportunities for me to work for ‘free in our
nation’s capital this summer as I earn valu-
able “experience” through coffee-making,
paper pushing, and the all-important answer-
ing-the-telephone. So be
forewarned...Washington here I come!
Note: Andrew desperately needs an in-
ternship requiring neither “experience” nor
“intelligence”, to fulfill his Davidson in Wash-
ington experience this summer. So, if you
happen to know of an internship, from demi-
god to assistant of the assistant of the aide to
the secretary let him know. Also, please re-
member that Andrew is not a historian and
any so called facts, here in cited, are not to be
believed or taken at any value whatsoever.
Finally, I would like toconvey my esteemed
gratitude to Arthur Gillett for providing an
idea for this week’s article.
Andrew MacDonald ‘03

Feminism in the year 2000

This past Saturday, C-SPAN covered
the Kennedy Center’s program for Women’s
Month featuring Gloria Steinem, Mary Tyler
Moore, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman (R-
NJ) ina discussion mediated by Katie Couric.
At the same time, Christina Hoff Lommers
author of Who Stole Feminism: How Women
Betrayed Women was giving a lecture on the
state of women and feminism in the United
States. I wondered what prompted this frankly
unusually high number of programs given by
and concerning women ona Saturday night.

Then, I real-

shadowing the other quietly powerful aspects
of feminism.

Yet, feminism, in theory and practice,
has undergone change, reorientation, splin-
tering, and revitalization that belie the one-
dimensional quality of the “femi-nazi” im-
age. To some, feminism is still a dirty word
and women’s issues have no relevance to the
masculine experience. Women’s Month per-
haps hinders understanding in this one re-
spect.

When women’s issues are associated

with. a time of

ized that
vei pias “Feminism, in theory and practice,
ling forceforthis as undergone change, reorientation,

“rash” of pro-
gramming. Do

splintering, and revitalization.”

year, accepting
that women’s
issues are
everyone’s is-
sues becomes a
seasonal affair.

students at
Davidson, upon seeing the large purple cal-
endar in the hall in Chambers, or walking
across Chambers’s lawn during opening cer-
emony feel the same bewilderment that I did?
And was this followed by a similar epiphany,
or did they continue bemusedly on to their
next class or their final destination?
Women’s Month at Davidson has begun
weeks of programming, events seeking to
encourage informed discussion. While Chris-
tina Hoff Lommers threw about terms suchas
“orthodox feminism” and “equity feminism’’;
I also wondered how much of her audience
had an appreciation of the significance of
these words. The bra burning “femi-nazi”
still looms large in American culture, over-

This semester,
Davidson has a number of classes overtly
devoted to themes of feminism. The attention
paid to such issues outside of the classroom,
however, suffers from the combined de-
mands of work and play.

This month, this Women’s Month, opti-
mizes its allotted time by presenting David-
son the opportunity to explore ‘with fellow
students and faculty issues of gender, eco-
nomics, international and domestic policies
intrinsic to women’s studies. Geared to en-
gage, these events educate in ways that will
inform beyond the month’s end, beyond ac-
cepting a conversation of scripted stereo-
types.

Meredith Beattie ‘01
