By Ricky Rasco

It was a good week for:
I was born and raised in Miami by Cu-
ban-American parents. I went to a predomi-
nantly Cuban high school, and I live in a
community where Cuban-Americans are the
single largest ethnic group. But make. no
mistake. I was raised in an American city in
which people are free and have the liberty to
pursue their goals and speak their minds.

None of us choose where we are born. I
was blessed to be born in Miami. I owe this
blessing to my parents. and my grandparents.
My father’s family was able to leave during
1961, but not together. My grandfather came
in April right after the Bay of Pigs—he was
on the run and sought political asylum in the
U.S. Risking family separation, the rest of
the family trickled in over the course of the
year and were reunited in October. They
arrived in Miami with nothing. other than
freedom and the opportunity to work to
achieve their goals and aspirations. But most
of all, they sought to enjoy the blessings of a
free country, including the freedom to wor-
ship without persecution.

My mother, on the other hand, was sent
to Miami without her parents. They feared
that she, as other talented swimmers, would
be sent to Czechoslovakia to train. My mother
was reunited with her parents when they
emigrated two years later.

Though my grandparents have not played
a very active role in my life, 1 owe them
everything. My grandparents ensured that
my family would live freely and have the
opportunities to work, prosper and achieve
our goals.

“Give me liberty or give me death,” are
the famous words of Patrick Henry. We hold
this’ maxim dear in our history but often take
it for granted.

However, the desire for freedom has
lured thousands of Cubans into making the
dangerous crossing in order to escape the
terrible oppression of Castro’s 41-year long
dictatorship.

The journey was fatal for Elizabeth
Brotons, the mother of six-year old Elian
a generation. The study found that 30.2% of all Gonzalez. Elian miraculously survived though
college freshmen frequently feel overwhelmed 11 of the 14 Cubans who tried to come with
by all they have to do. . him died before reaching the U.S. Ever since

Gustavo Noboa. Ecuador’ s vice-president was
sworn in as president after his unpopular pre-
decessor, Jamil Mahuad, was overthrown in a
bloodless military coup. Other Latin Ameri-
can countries, however, worry that this trend
may spread throughout the region.

The European Commission. The commis-
sion recommended that the process of law-
making in the EU be changed from the “una-
nimity” system and to a “majority-voting.”

Kofi Annan. The UN secretary-general fi-
nally traveled to Moscow in an attempt to
bring about a peaceful solution to the Russia-
Chechnya conflict.

American tennis. Andre Agassi and Lindsay
Davenport won the men’s and women’s titles
respectively at the Australian Open, the first
Grand Slam tournament of the year. Both
players defeated last year’s champions
(Yevgeny Kafelnikov and Martina Hingis) in
the finals. ;

It was a bad week for:

Several prominent judges in Pakistan. The
Judges were dismissed by the country’s ruling
military after they refused to swear allegiance
to the regime. The judges dismissed included
the Chief Justice of Pakistan and five other
Supreme Court Judges. Ina statement the U.S.
State Department condemned the action call-
ing it a slap in the face to democracy.

Citizens of Madrid. A bomb exploded in-the
Spanish capital, killing an army officer and
marking the end of a cease-fire by ETA, a
Basque separatist group.

The Pakistan city of Karachi. Two bombs
exploded, killing 4 people and wounding .32
others.

The father of Elian Gonzalez. U.S. Federal
Authorities ruled that Elian could not return to
Cuba for the time being. As Congress prepared
to grant him citizenship, President Clinton
said he might veto it.

College freshmen. A UCLA study showed
that they were the most stressed out students in

Lake Norman’s
Best Mexican Food!

4 ? LY,
Sgr lit,

MEXICAN FOOD COOKED BY)
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN CHEFS

@. _ @ © _ @ | ae >
CORNELIUS MOORESVILLE
a pe 482 CRivr Bag ey 150)

Magnolia
664-6363

Hwy 73 W. Exit

(895-2363 —

A i ee ee ee ee ree: * ip Fae a; ’
j PRERDEOECE CECE EEE EER OEE EEE
te Pare a et a a ee a Me ae Oe a ee

“¢
: PRECECECH CECE REERES
eee eH e cee eterrrrre

Let little Elian stay in the U.S.

that fateful crossing, Elian has since been
embroiled in a political war between two
nations.

On one side is his homeland, a beautiful
island ruled by the greedy and ruthless Fidel
Castro. On the other side is the United States,
the “the land of the free and the home of the
brave,” a country that opens its arms to politi-
cal refugees from all over the world.

Should Elian be returned to his father in
Cuba or should he remain with his relatives in
Miami, where he will grow up in a demo-
cratic society?

Elian’s mother, like my grandparents,
dreamed of freedom. She made the ultimate
sacrifice in order to give her son freedom.
Through her son Elian’s mother has fulfilled
her dream. We must focus on this fact.

Many people believe that Elian should
be returned to his father in Cuba. Even Presi-
dent Clinton has pressed for Elian’s return to
his family in Cuba. However, as Roberto
Romero, a Miami journalist, stated in a letter
to The Miami Herald, Clinton’s track record
exhibits poor family values. Romero believes
that Clinton is betraying the boy by support-
ing his return to Cuba.

Some argue that the boy should be re-
turned because American law stipulates that
the child belongs with the surviving parent.
Such an argument applies a general law to a
very unique situation. If Elian’s father lived
in a country where he could make free deci-

_ sions, then the solution would be to return the

child to the father. Unfortunately the situa-
tion is not that simple!

Elian’s father is’ living in a repressive
country where each child belongs to the gov-
ernment. At age seven, Cuban-children stop
receiving milk. At age eleven they are sent to
the fields to work.

If he were returned to Cuba, Elian prob-
ably would not have to suffer these hardships.
He would be treated as a triumphant hero in

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000

the political and ideological war against the
imperialist United States. Though he would
receive all the material goods he wished, he
would never be given a chance to think for
himself. He will never have the to opportu-
nity to study what he wants or to worship as
he chooses. If he returns to Cuba he will
probably be paraded. around the streets and
told what to say. Elian might walk around
freely, but he will languish in a mental prison.

To apply U.S. law to Elian’s case, there-
fore, does not serve justice. The surviving
parent law was created for the safety and well —
being of children. The application of this law
to Elian’s case will have the opposite effect.
Elian will live in a constant state of fear.

The Dean of Berry University in Miami,
Sister Jeanne O’Laughlin, recently hosted
Elian’ s grandmothers on their visit to Miami.
Sister O’ Laughlin originally was in favor of
returning the boy to Cuba. However, she
changed her opinion when she saw that the
grandmothers were not thinking on their own
but were instead acting out of fear. The fear
that Sister O’ Laughlin detected in those grand-
mothers is the fear that most Cubans live with
under Castro. A child should not be raised in
an environment that is controlled by fear.

Elian does not want fo live in fear and he
has admitted that he does not want to return to
Cuba.

My own mother, like Elian, did not want
to live in fear. She willingly left her parents at
the tender age of six, knowing that she might
never see them again, because she wanted to
escape the fear and oppression of the Castro
regime:

The misery that Elian has experienced
cannot be adequately expressed in words. He
lost his mother on a raft in the high seas. He

See Cuba, continued on page 5.

abroad

4
‘ (EEE
ae)

Study abroad is a transformative process. It
helps you to understand the changing world
around you and reveals ways for you to weave
these new insights into the choices you'll
make for your future. With over fifty years’
experience in international education and pro-
grams in Australia, Austria, Great Britain,
Greece, Ireland, Mexico and Spain, the Beaver
College Center for Education Abroad special-
izes in helping students discover fresh per-
spectives. Our professional staff is always
available to deliver outstanding personalized
service, whether you choose to study with us

for a semester, year, or summer. Contact us

today and begin planning the experienee of
your lifetime! Call 1-888-BEAVER-9 or visit

our website at www.beaver.edu/cea.

a fresh perspective

LTS ees eee
LEP EPEAT EEE T UE Vexy ys

wt ae Pe ee de a ates
