The track of the pipeline cuts through the forest and crosses Erin Berry

numerous property lines.

Pipeline,
from page 1

Carolina. They swing out across the coun-
tryside, straight swaths cut into the landscape
obliterating everything save the.grass. The
trees were all logged off and sold when the
companies originally laid their pipes during
the first half of the twentieth century. The
pipes themselves are laid in the earth and are
only visible when monitoring stations sur-
face near secondary roads.

Of these, one pipeline is a public service
line, Transco runs the other, and the third is
owned by a conglomerate of gas suppliers
headed and mostly owned by Piedmont.

This corporation has certainly benefited

from the increased demand on their gas. Over
the past year of so they have joined, bought,
and formed alliances with several other sup-"
pliers. Today they stand as one of the nation’s
foremost marketers of natural gas, serving
over 708,000 customers in their eight-state
southeast region.

Now, to meet the growing demand and to.
expand their growing profit margins, Pied-
mont has found it necessary to lay more
pipes. Fortunately, they can do this right
beside the existing ones. Nevertheless, Pied-
mont is pushing to extend its right-of-way by
40 feet, a measure that has angered local
landowners.

Environmental concerns
Many at Davidson feel that this land is too
vulnerable to undergo further development.

~ Vagt emphasized that the land in question
is “an ecologically, environmentally sensi-
tive area. We've got salamanders and all
sorts of things back there.”

Dr. Mike Dorcas of the biology department
agrees. According to him; “North Davidson

‘is becoming an island of biodiversity among

all the farms and Wal-Marts and cement.”
Dorcas has been monitoring the popula-
‘tions of reptiles‘and amphibians on campus
for the past two years, including the five
different species of salamanders referred to

“-by Vagt.

[The area] is an ecological preserve with
a pipeline right through the middle of it.
Putting in more pipes will destroy the habi-
tat,” Dorcas explained.

Vagt also raised an issue with Piedmont’s
past record of land usage. “They claim to
restore the additional easement to its original
condition once they’re done with it... how

are you going to take a forty-year-old tree, .

chop it down, and then put it back when
you’re through?” he protested.

Not only would the added easement be
harmful, but Vagt also claims that it is com-
pletely unnecessary. “First of all, [Piedmont]
doesn’t need more than 50 feet if they have
any skill at all. I spent almost 20 years in the
oil and gas business; I know how much room
you need,” remarked Vagt. :

Vagt served as chairman, president, and
chief operating officer at Seagull Energy
Corporation.

“You don’t need 90 feet if you are reason-
able and prudent.”

Local landowners in a huff

Members of the campus community are
not the only ones with concerns about
Piedmont’s plans.

One member of a local family- run busi-
ness, Mr. Richard McIntosh, had to run the

: gas workers off his company’ sland after they

cleared the right-of-way without his knowl-
edge and were in the process of hauling off _
his trees to sell them for lumber.

McIntosh recalled prior encounters with
Piedmont. “They tell conflicting stories.
They wanted another 50 feet of workspace. I
named a price. They paid me half of what we
agreed to. They tell stories that are no more
true than nothing.

“We’ve had this [land] since ’48,” tec con-
tinued. “They came through here back in’58.
My father let them because they offered him
wholesale gas. When he got the bill, it was
three times higher than what he was paying
for oil. We figured the best thing to do was
just shut them down.”

Mr. Kenneth Morrow, another landowner
farther from campus, has had fewer experi-
ences with the-company. “I don’t care one
way or another, as lohg~as they don’t do
anything outside the 50 feet,” he stated.

Morrow was recently informed of
Piedmont’s intent to install additional pipe-
lines by a letter, which did not make the
planned expansion of the easement clear.

_ McIntosh indicated that he has no intention

of allowing Piedmont to gain its proposed 40
feet. “They already have the right-of-way —
put it on their 50 feet,” he concluded.

The looming battle

Whether or not those concerned will be
able to put a stop to the corporate gas giant
remains to be seen. Previously, their plans
have been upheld by | the N.C. Court of Ap-
peals.

The supply of gas is often esteemed as vital
to the public good, and its expansion is tacitly
encouraged by government and big business.
Their financial interests happen to coincide
with expanding this beneficial service.

International commentary - impact of missile defense on ‘“‘the most dangerous place on earth”

By RosHAN PAUL
Special Contributor

Most media coverage about the proposed
National Missile Defense (NMD) system has
revolved around responses from Russia, the
EU and China.

However, both the media and, it seems, the
Clinton Administration have largely ignored
responses from South Asia, a region of the
world that it recently labeled, rather fool-
ishly, “the most dangerous place on Earth.”
Furthermore, anything that affects China’s

proven right.

This will bolster the case of Indian
hardliners who advocate further advances in
India’s nuclear arsenal to keep up with other
nuclear states.

Similar to India’s response to China, any
changes in India’s nuclear capabilities will

prompt reactions from Pakistan. India and ~

Pakistan are mired in conflict over Kashmir,
a conflict that is rapidly escalating regional
tensions. As the nuclear moderates get under-
mined, there will be pressure on both govern-
ments-to increase and improve their respec-

nuclear ca- tive nuclear
pabilities ; ; : ; ; arsenals —
will have As incredulous as the American identification actions that
serious of missile threats from “rogue” states as justifica- — will have
ramifica- tion for a continental missile defense systemis,it adverse
Hons for is also indicative of an aggressive culture that °°"%©~
the rest of k ‘dentify th ‘vable th quences for
this region. see S to ic enti y the remotest conceiva ethreat oc juth
Deploy- and then institutes measures to defeat it. Asian sta-
vi mee aaa sesame mmmmmmmmmmasmiams)| 11111.
NMD will Advo-
come as a cates for

heavy blow to the post-Cold War nuclear
arms control regime.
China, whose long-range nuclear force will
be rendered impotent by NMD, would cer-
tainly accelerate the modernization and ex-
pansion of its arsenal. With the superpowers
totally disregarding arms control, what other
option does the rest of the world have but to
follow in their footsteps?
A modernized Chinese nuclear force and a

more defiant attitude will send nervous trem-:

ors across the rest of South Asia. Despite
China’s declared intentions, modifications in
its arsenal and attitude. will bear heavily on
the nuclear debate in India.
For a while now, India has incurred the
wrath of the world by refusing to sign off on
_the Test Ban Treaty, arguing that the nuclear
weapon states themselves have no intention
of undertaking comprehensive nuclear disar-
mament. With the further stalling of the arms
- control agenda, India seems to ‘have ‘been

Debt Relief and Jubilee 2000 argue that the
rest of the world is not going to make any
changes unless the United States do so, for it
is the world leader.

Similarly, a US decision to deploy NMD,
with the ideological and unilateral undercur-
rents implicit in such a decision, will deeply
influence strategic beliefs not only in South
Asia but also throughout the world. Other

countries could well react by using this deci- .

sion as an example to follow in terms of their
own national security decisions.

‘As incredulous as the American identifica-
tion of missile threats from “rogue” states as
justification for a continental migsile defense
system is, itis also indicative of an aggressive
culture that seeks to identify the remotest
conceivable threat and then institutes: mea-
sures to defeat it. Unfortunately, this alarmist
attitude might be imitated by nations in an
attempt to emulate the success, prosperity

_and international status enjoyed by the United

States.

The effects of the US decision will prob-
ably be felt more strongly in India than in
Pakistan. Unlike Pakistan, which is more
concerned with maintaining regional parity
with India, India’s ambitions are extra-re-
gional.

India regards itself as an emerging great
power. From recent policy decisions, it is
clear that the Indian government envisions
the transformation of India into a major glo-
bal player by adapting the development and
security policies of its more successful coun-
terparts.

The spanner in the works comes from the
Pakistani outlook that they must match India

-in terms of nuclear capabilities. Add this to

the ongoing conflict in Kashmir, and you
raise the nuclear stakes significantly.

South Asia is home to roughly 45% of the
world’s illiterate. In the light of this, it seems
that there can be no higher priority than to
invest in the primary education of these mil-

lions, so that they don’t blindly follow the
wishes of their self-serving governments. This
will achieve the US goal of “national secu-
rity” infinitely better than the NMD (with all
of its technical and operational problems)
will.

Finally, the NMD is a powerful indicator
from the US that it questions the efficacy of
the non-proliferation regime in stemming
threats to national security. It communicates
the notion that countries must rely on their
own resources to deter and ward off such
threats, rather than investing those very re-
sources in building a global community of
common security interests. ;

It provides fuel for nuclear proponents not
just in India, Pakistan and China, but also the
rest of the world as it presumes that nuclear
weapons are essential to safeguard national
security and retain global strategic advan-
tages.

And such a global perception could easily
spiral out of control.

Choose your lab partners carefully

Saratoga Springs, N.Y. (AP)

Three middle school students are undergo-
ing a monthlong series of rabies shots after
bringing a dead bat to science class last month.

Only the three girls who had contact with
the dead bat at the Saratoga Springs school
are undergoing rabies shots as a.precaution,
said Pat Willson, communicable disease co-
ordinator for the Saratoga County Public
Health office. Previously, the school left it to
parents whether to have their children tested
for rabies, officials said.

The series of five shots are given in the arm
over a period of one month, Willson said. The
first shot is accompanied by one dose or more
of immunoglobulin, which is injected in the
hip. The treatment is much less painful than
the injections given in the stomach in years
past, Willson said.

_ The Saratoga Springs case began when an

* officials said:

unidentified middle school student found the
dead bat at her bus stop. She and a friend
picked it up, using a plastic bag and stick, and
brought it in a brown paper bag to their
science teacher at school, who promptly dis-
carded it, school officials have said.

The mother of the girl who found the bat
then called the school, public health officials
had the bat tested, and rabies was confirmed
on Oct. 26. A note was sent home to parents
of the school’s 1,100 students, and custodi-
ans disinfected the two classrooms, desks and
wastebaskets, school officials said.

Once rabies symptoms appear, the virus is
nearly always fatal to humans. There have
been only 28 human cases of rabies since
1990 in the United States, and only four
people are known to have survived, all of
them in a severely diminished state, health
