By Micuaet J. Kruse
Staff Writer

CHARLESTON, S.C. — Something
stunk Saturday night at The Citadel.

Was it the refereeing? Davidson’s pe-
rimeter defense? The Wildcats’ continued
inability to hit three-pointers with any regu-
larity?

Try all of the above.

Three days after knocking off Wake
Forest — one of the biggest wins in coach

Bob McKillop’s 11-
74 year career here —
87 the men’s basketball

team fell flat on its
face by losing to the 7-14 Bulldogs 87-74 at
McAlister Field House.

Going into Tuesday night’s home date
with East Tennessee State, the Wildcats were
11-10 overall and 6-4 in the Southern Confer-
ence.

The three-man officiating crew called 61
fouls in the 40-minute game Saturday. Both
teams were in the double bonus—10 fouls
apiece—with just under six minutes to go in
the first half. And it was even worse in the
second.

The two teams each took a mind-blow-
ing 41 free throws.

Davidson big man Stephen Marshall,
coming off a dominating 22-point perfor-
mance in the win over Wake, played just 10
minutes and scored seven points before foul-
ing out.

Jeff Bergmann fouled out with 30 sec-
onds to go. Two Bulldogs also picked up five
fouls. Six other players had four.

“With the whistle consistently blowing
like it did,” McKillop said, “I thought that

Davidson
The Citadel

really disrupted any flow whatsoever or ,

rhythm to the game.

“I suspect it wasn’t a good game to
watch. It was a difficult game to be involved
with as a coach. The whistles destroyed any
rhythm.”

At least for Davidson. The cold-shoot-
ing Wildcats made 7-of-22 threes and fin-
ished the game at 37.7 percent from the floor.

The Citadel, meanwhile, managed to find
its shooting touch — and then some. Bulldog
guards Travis Cantrell and Alan Puckett com-
bined to make 10 of their 15 three-point
attempts.

f ‘
* Eoin: s say
Mike Anderson

Bernard is shooting better than
70 percent from the line.

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats let do

« 2 mare

Cantrell ended up with a career-high 33
points. Puckett, the league’s second-leading
three-point shooter, added 17.

For the Wildcats, Landry Kosmalski re-

Fern Tonella tosses a pass inside over the Bulldogs last Satu

corded 19 points and nine rebounds. Wayne _

Bernard contributed 16. Brian Turner was
the only other Davidson player in double

ss ee

bas

Mike Anderson
rday.

figures with 12.

“That was probably one of the more

physical games we’ ve played,” said Cantrell,
who'd failed to reach double figures in his
previous four games. “It was really hard to
get something going. But we were able to do
it.”

Fesruary 12, 2000 — WesTERN CAROLINA CATAMOUNTS
@ CuLtowuee, N.C., 7:00 p.m.

Catamounts’ Record (as of 2/8): 1 1-11 overall, 4-7 SoCon

Who to look out for: Jarvis Hayes, who is ranked fifth in
Southern Conference scoring (16.1 ppg). The Catamounts
also boast of a top rebounder in the conference—Dondrell
Whitmore ranks fourth in the league with 8.0 rpg. Adding
to their firepower is sophomore guard Casey Rogers, who
leads the conference in assists, averaging 7.95 per game.
Davidson is looking for a 1999-2000 sweep of the team that eliminated them from the
1998-99 Southern Conference tournament.

Last meeting: You remember this one, don’t you. Davidson defeated Western Carolina
83-78 Jan. 18,.2000, in Belk Arena. The contest came down to the wire and it was Wayne
Bernard’s 6-for-6 performance from the line in the last two minutes that propelled the
Wildcats to victory. Bernard paced the Wildcats with 22 points while Jarvis Hayes led

the Catamounts, chipping in 24.

Fesruary 14, 2000 — CuatranooGca Mocs
@ Bek Arena, 7:00 P.M.

Mocs’ Record (as of 2/8): 8-14 overall, 5-6 SoCon

Who to look out for: Rashun Coleman, who leads
the conference in scoring, averaging almost 17 points
per game. The Mocs beat College of Charleston 70-
68 Jan. 31, 2000, in Chattanooga, marking Charleston’s
only second conference loss since joining the confer-
ence. Oliver Morton, who is on a hot streak right now, scored 22 points against
Charleston and could cause problems for the Wildcats. Over a recent two-game span
against Appalachian State and Charleston, Morton went 25-for-27 from the floor and

recorded 56 points.

Last Meeting: The Wildcats topped the Mocs 68-54 Jan. 23, 1999, in Chattanooga.
Stephen Marshall led the Wildcats in scoring and rebouding, chipping-in 23 points and
grabbing 9 boards:

Davidson (should be) #1

With the win against Wake Forest, I be-
lieve the AP should realign its poll and put
Davidson atop the Men’s Division I rank-
ing. Here’s why...

Davidson beat Wake Forest.
Wake Forest beat Clemson,
Clemson beat Winthrop,
Winthrop bear Missouri,
Missouri beat Kansas,
Kansas beat Xavier,

Xavier beat #1 Cincinnati!

So therefore, of course, Davidson is better
than Cincinnati and Kenyon Martin and

company should watch out for dem ’Cats!

-Compiled by Christopher Brantley

| ee
Errant passes. Diving players. Halftime
shows. These are the rather trivial—but
nonetheless possible—dangers of sitting
courtside.

Being trampled had never really crossed
my mind. Not until last Wednesday, that is.

At the sound of the final buzzer last
Wednesday, fans leapt out of their seats and
charged the floor to congratulate their Wild-
cats. From my seat on press row, I sat fora
second just to savor the atmosphere and gawk
at the mad dash of Crazy Cats to the court.

And I soon found out that I was sitting in
the middle of the Crazy Cats’ route.

The west stand fans were leaping over
the railing, onto the press tables, and then
onto the hardwood to join their fellow revel-
ers.

First, it was thump to my left and by the
time I swung around all that was left was a
footprint. Then, the table shook again and I
looked to my right to find a pair of Nikes
coiled and ready to spring onto the floor.

And it was great. Don’t get me wrong, I
don’t wish a trampling on anyone, but if you
were there Wednesday then you know all
about the adrenaline rush that comes with
being a part of an energetic, passionate, loyal,
and fun-loving group of fans.

The fans were as vital a part of this win
as our players were,” said’ coach McKillop
during his post-game radio interview.

McKillop extended another compliment
to the Belk Arena crowd, probably the great-
est compliment of all: “The Davidson fans
were the best in my eleven years here. With-
out a doubt the best.”

The Crazy Cats—as McKillop dubbed
the Davidson fans earlier in the day on a pre-
game radio show—cheered with the same
intensity the Wildcats played with on the
court. The Wildcats never let up and the
Crazy Cats didn’t either.

“The last three games our fans have been
unbelievable. Even though we lost two tough
games, they still came out tonight and they
were wildand crazy,” said Landry Kosmalski.
“It’s such a great atmosphere and just so
exciting.”

For a college who has been concerned
recently with student apathy, Wednesday’s
game was a quick pulse check that revived
this community.

It might have been loud. Some might say
we were too loud. Some might say we were
rowdy, But the important thing is that we
were loud and rowdy...all of us...together.

I say congratulations to Davidson for
coming alive.
