THE DAvIDSONIAN

: from page I |

optimal rehearsal space.

Converting Grey into the music building
will solve these problems as well as offer
added advantages. Right now, preliminary
plans indicate rehearsal and recital halls on
the second floor, the music library and offices
on the ground floor and practice rooms and
teaching studios in the basement. Although
this could change as planning progresses,
Sprague anticipates that whatever the final
design, the building will be able to fulfill all

. ws j Erin Berry
Cunningham limits space

available to music department.

the needs of the department.

The new location of the department will
be even more beneficial than the addition of
needed space. Moving into Grey will put
music facilities in a central location between

Flu vaccine shortage

By Katy ELWe.e
Staff Writer

Confined settings such as classrooms and
dorms are excellent breeding grounds for
influenza outbreaks, putting the majority of
Davidson students at risk of contracting this
serious disease.

Just ask Colin Eagan ’04, who has already
been victimized by the virus.

“Tt seems like an awful lot of freshman are
susceptible to the flu,” he said. “I caught it
about a week ago.”

Many students try to avoid the sickness by
getting an influenza vaccine. Last year, 20 to
25% of Davidson students received the vac-
cination, creating a total of over 410 vaccines
given.

“Although it is impossible to tell how many
students get sick each year because not all
students visit the health center when they are
sick, the flu vaccine definitely puts a dent in
the number of cases we have each year,” said
Jan Poole of the Student Health Center.

This year, however, vaccination may not
be possible due to a vaccine shortage nation-
wide.

Gharnbecs, Martin, Watson and Little fibeary,
which is where most activity takes place.
-Most music spaces, like Cunningham, are
now on the perimeter of the campus, which
Sprague says is a deterrent for some students.
“We hope a new location, with all our re-
sources in one place, will help students see us
as more inviting and look inside for relation-
ships to their majors and interests. The de-
partment is so much more than students who
play and perform music,” he commented.
He pointed out the wide variety of non-
traditional and non-Western music classes
the department offers and the opportunities
of student-run music groups as some of the
ways that many students can find niches
within the music department. “You don’t
have to like Brahms and Bach to take music
here,” Sprague remarked.

The improvement of the music
department’s physical resources will benefit
other groups as well. The new recital space is
expected to seat about 170 and can also be
used for more intimate theater performances.
The building will have a general purpose
room which will be open for other lectures
and events. “We won’t be using all these
resources 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
We’re working with the architect so spaces,
when not in use by the music department, will

puts students at risk

The yield for this year’s influenza vaccine
A(H3N2) component is lower than expected,
limiting the supply that can be developed in
time for this flu season, which begins around
late October. Other manufacturing issues also
interfere with the production of the vaccine.
Manufacturers are working closely with the
FDA to address these issues.

“We pre-ordered the vaccine back in
March or April,” Poole said. “But our ship-
ment which usually arrives at the end of
September might be delayed as long as the
first week in November.”

According to the Centers for Disease
Control, yearly vaccination is especially criti-
cal in the fight against influenza because the
virus that causes it changes often. The influ-
enza vaccine is updated each year by replac-
ing at least one of the vaccines with a newer
one. Protection develops about two weeks
after the shot and can last up to a year.

Davidson makes an extra effort to inform

students of the importance of vaccination by
holding a yearly flu campaign.

“We had originally scheduled the cam-
paign for October 24, but we will probably
have to delay it,”

Poole said.

202 Main St.

3 Surprise your college kids
of campus chums with
an ice cream or
frozen yogurt cake
for birthday or
graduation

exam time or just for fun!

BENGJERRY S.

‘| VERMONT'S FINEST ¢ ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

celebrations, study breaks,

¢ Davidson * 892-0604

be user-friendly for other disciplines on cam-

pus,” explained Sprague. _

The music department’s move will make
additional space in Cunningham and Oak
Row available. While plans are ‘still vague
about how the space will be used, the theater
department is anticipating many advantages
in having more space in the Fine Arts build-
ing.

The building does not yet have a projected
opening date; a year to a year and a half after
Knobloch opens is currently anticipated.

The Davidson community can expect two

and how you interact with other students.
And it will change it in positive ways,” as-
serted Brown. The improvement of the music
facilities will be improving upon an already
stellar program and is sure'to benefit the 30%
of Davidson’s students involved in music as
well as the entire community. “We have a
unique situation at Davidson, to be a small
liberal arts school and to have ensembles the
caliber we do,” claimed Sprague.

Court and off, the possibility of seca this
colorless, odorless, and tasteless drugi into a
person’s drink are infinite.
Ido not say this to scare people orto create

that next time they will think twice about
accepting a drink from someone or leaving

that this drug was used on you or someone
else, or you suspect someone has this drug,
immediately contact Campus Police, Geor-

the perpetrators before they hurt other people.

Also, the nurse on call or the Health Center
should be called. Within 24 hours, the drag
can still be detected in'the body. The com-

so ne do not sae ‘areal with Psi lif

ae forme, and ne

_andno sooner did I say it, 4collapsed. I only
hysteria; I merely want to educate people, so -

their drink unattended. If you ever suspect

gia Ringle, or myself. This is a felony: =
offense, punishable by law. Weneedtostop __ The scary thing about this is, aside from.

bination of the date rape drug and alcohol
can be fatal, since they are both depressants,

who brought my drink was
too. I told my friend I didn’t feel SO; good,

remember bits and pieces of the rest of the
night. My friends carried me to my car; I
was barely responsive. I couldn’t move, I
had trouble breathing, the world was spin-
ning, I couldn’t talk, and then I started to
vomit and couldn’t stop. They finally put me
in the back of a car where I passed out. They
drove me home.

ae very few memories of the night. that I DO
have, anything could have happened to me.
Had my friends not been there, I'm almost
certain that it would. When we got to the
house (Which I don’t remember AT ALL,
this is all what I’ve been i my friend

