By ALISON KALETT
Editor in Chief

Forbes Thompson and Elizabeth Moreno
have dispelled all possibilities of a sopho-
more slump. Thompson and Moreno, who
hold the No. | and No. 2 singles positions
respectively, have led the Wildcats to a 3-6
record halfway through the season.

‘We’ ve played really well this season so
far,” Moreno said. “We have a young team,
but we have adjusted well, using our experi-
ence from last year.”

Arguably, the highlight of the Wildcats’
season thus far was a 5-4 victory against High
Point. Davidson was down 4-2 heading into

THE DAVIDSONIAN

the doubles. The Wildcats fought back to win
three key matches including the clincher by
the #3 team of sophomore Kelley Cantrell
and freshman Rebecca Rigel.

“For a young team to pull out a 5-4
victory is pretty impressive,” Thompson said.

Individually, Thompson moved up from
the #4 spot after freshman year. This season
the native of Spicewood, Texas has a 3-6
individual record, including big wins over
Presbyterian, College, High Point College,
and Georgetown University.

“It’s very different playing No. 1,” said
Thompson. “There are no easy matches and
you have to make it happen to win those
matches.”

By Curis HERRINGTON & Mart Peters
Staff Writers

The men’s tennis squad hosted the
Marquette Golden Beagles Friday in a vic-
tory that pushed its winning streak to three
matches and improved their season record to
6-5, 2-1 in the Southern Conference.

“We were really proud about the. vic-
tory against Marquette,” said Leroy Butler.
“Our victory over the Golden Beagles shows
how well we can play as a team.”

The Wildcats won four of the six singles
matches in an epic battle between the two
teams. All six matches went a full three sets
with Marquette winning at the top two spots
and Davidson earning points at the three,
four, five and six.

~ Alex Okulski won for the Wildcats at
the No. 3 spot with a victory over Bart
Cordemeyer. Teammate Billy Boykin
smashed his way to victory at No. 4 over
Carlo Rossi.

Wildcats leash the
Beagles of Marquette

. team lead in singles victories. Each have
eight following their wins over the Beagles.

Okulski and Boykin are tied for the

Also picking up victories for the Wild-
cats were Chad Winebarger and Chad
Phillips.

“Billy and Chad both played up to their
potential,” head coach Jeff Frank said. “Even
after many close line calls, they both showed
the strength of their mental games to keep
battling and pull out two huge victories.”

Davidson earned the doubles point as
well with victories at the top two doubles
spots. The No. 1 tandem of Brett Ialacci and
Okulski downed Mojzis and Van Der Gucht
8-4. The Boykin/Whit Hansen duo defeated
Holson and Cordemeyer 8-6. Marquette’s
No. 3 team downed Chris Herrington and
David Webb by the score of 8-5,

The Wildcats played UNC Charlotte
Tuesday afternoon, but the results were not
available at press time.

Hockey team rolls over opponents

By Evan McCormick
Hockey Correspondent

The Davidson College roller hockey
team, affectionately called the “Nads,” con-
tinued their unbeaten streak with a 10-6 vic-
tory over the physical Chiefs.

Skating on only one week’s rest, the
Nads showed considerable fatigue as the
Chiefs dominated early. But the Davidson
squad answered the Chief’s aggressive style
with swift skating and crisp play making.

Ryan Auster, the high-powered
defenseman still ailing from a serious knee
injury, was unable to dress for the game,
leaving a noticeable gap in the teams’ arse-
nal. Freshman Marc Naples and junior Andy
Rhodes, however, picked up the slack and
provided very solid performances.

“The addition of Naples and Rhodes
brings experience and offensive flare to an
already talented team,” coach Pat McCormick
said. “They also offer me an ample selection
of line combinations that will allow us to
dominate opposing teams.”

The intense physical play brought out
the best in Mark Hymerling, Brad Stevinson,
and Bryan Stevinson as they matched the
Chiefs hit for hit.

“T prefer to be violent, and since the refs
let us get away with everything, I took advan-
tage of it,” Hymerling later confided.

Brad Stevinson, who also enjoys the
rough stuff, proved himself again as the Nads’
defensive stalwart.

“(The Stevinson brothers] were fabu-
lous tonight,” coach Ed Rainey said. “They

completely shut down the other teams offen-
sive.”

“Brad, Mark, and Bryan played the body
well tonight,” goaltender Jamie Heit said.
“They never let the Chiefs penetrate the zone.
They made my job easy.”

Despite pulling off a 10-6 win, Coach
Pat McCormick was not happy about his
team’s overall performance.

“They stunk,” McCormick said flatly.
‘We were irresponsible in our defensive zone
and absolutely pitiful in the offensive zone.
You can bet the house that they’II be running
several miles tomorrow.”

Shrugging off a difficult first period, the
team eventually showed bursts of brilliance
as they gained a 4-3 lead late in the second.
Andy Rhodes and Marc Naples carried the
offensive play while the Stevinson brothers
shouldered the defensive workload.

A strong third period allowed the team to
extend their lead and finally take control of
the game. Heit was peppered with several
difficult shots as the Chiefs mounted a des-
perate attack, but he shut the door, eventually
tallying 28 saves.

‘We looked pretty bad in the early go-
ing,” Naples admitted. “But everyone real-
ized what was happening and made the nec-
essary adjustments.”

As the season rolls into the third week,
the Nads remain at the top of the standings
with a 2-0-0 record. Bryan Stevinson likes
the team’s.chances for the rest of the season:
“If we can win without a full lineup, we are
going to be very tough to beat once we.get
everyone back.”

SPORTS

Wildcat tennis’ own Dynamic Dt

“Forbes has been asked to lead very
quickly as a sophomore,” said head coach
Caroline Price. “She’s a quick learner.”

Price cites Thompson’s complete back,
mid, and front court game as the reason
behind her success this season.

Fellow sophomore, Elizabeth Moreno
garnered a 3-5 mid-season mark including
two consecutive victories against James
Madison University and Georgetown. In
Davidson’s most-recent match against JMU,
Moreno won a tough second set tiebreaker to
secure the straight-set victory.

“The players are a lot tougher [at the No.
2 position], but it has been fun at the same
time,” Moreno said. “My game has had to
improve a lot.”

Meanwhile, Thompson and Moreno have
joined forces in No. | doubles.

“We had a couple of shaky matches
getting used to playing with each other,”
Moreno said. “Now we are getting used to
playing with each other and our games really
complimenteach other’s. She’s more consis-
tent and will always make the shot whereas I
like to go for it more. We even it out.”

According to Price, the biggest win for
the sophomore doubles duo came against
Georgetown over spring break. The Wild-
cats and the Hoyas were tied at three
matches each after singles play, but, led by
Thompson and Moreno, Davidson swept all
three doubles matches to win 6-3 overall.

“The .energy at’ #1 doubles was
unbeleivable,” Price said. ‘““They reached an-
other level as a team.”

THURSDAY, MARCH 30, 2000

Thompson (left) and Moreno, the
Wildcats’ formidable doubles
duo.

In the second half of the season the
Wildcats will take on nine conference oppo-
nents, including defending Southern Confer-
ence Champions Furman University at
Furman on April 11th.

“We are building momentum to make a
run at the conference championship,” Price
said.

Davidson’s next home match is against
UNC Greensboro on Wed., April 5, at 3 p.m.

Duquesne defeats Davidson
lacrosse on home turf

By Jimmy BurForp
Staff Writer

The Davidson lacrosse team could have
used some more late-game firepower against
the visiting Dukes of Dequesne, who jumped
out to an early lead last Friday before finally
claiming a 13-9 victory over the Wildcats.

“We just didn’t play like we know how
to,” said Lauren Kenchington, who scored
three goals for the Wildcats. ~

Prior to the Wildcats’ meeting with the
Dukes, the Wildcats had gone on a three-
game road trip, notching a respectable 2-1
record on the road, including a come-from-
behind 14-11 victory over American in the
last game of the trip.

But Duquesne staved off a late surge by
the Wildcats and held on to beat Davidson 13-
9 in its second home game of the 2000
season.

Duquense scored early and quickly, net-
ting the first four goals of the match.
Davidson’s Molly Cherington ended the
Wildcat’s scoring drought with a beautiful
shot over the Dukes’ goalie with 27:16 re-
maining in the half. Loren Seaton provided
the assist.

Cherington’s goal sparked a 3-0 run for
the Wildcats as Seaton scored, followed by
Kenchington with the first of her three goals
on the day.

Ahead by only one, 4-3, the Dukes scored
next but the Wildcats answered quickly with
two goals by Beth Calder.

Tied at five goals apiece, Duquesne and
Davidson battled for the halftime lead as time
wound down in the first period, but Davidson
fell quite short in their bid for the mid-game
advantage. The Dukes scored four unan-
swered goals in the last two minutes of the
half and the Wildcats went into halftime
trailing 9-5.

In the second half, a ferocious Duquesne
defense and costly turnovers killed Davidson’s
comeback despite the Wildcat’s best efforts.
Kenchington scored twice inside the first six
minutes of the half, but two Duquesne goals
neutralized her assault.

The Wildcats closed to within three goals,
12-9, but they just couldn’t sustain enough
momentum to take control and grab the win.
“We began focusing on the outcome of the
game instead of focusing on our performance,”
said Kenchington. “And that’s what hurt us.”

“That comeback was a’good example of
how good we can be if we play the whole
game like that,” added Calder. “We're really
working on playing a solid 60 minutes and
not just short bursts.”

Allison Matlack scored her first colle-
giate goal in the game on an assist from
Kenchington. Beth Calder scored Davidson’s
final goal of the half, matching Kenchington’s
a hat trick.

“I got an opportunity to go in on an
attack, which I’ve really been working on;”
said Matlack. “It was very exciting for me [to
score the goal], but I was just as exited to help
my team.”

Now down by only three, the leveling
blow to the Wildcats’ comeback was a goal
by Duquesne’s Lauren Dutch with only three
minutes left in the game. -

But the Wildcat faithful wouldn’t desert.

The crowd was great, and the support of
the fans is important because we’re really
building this program from the ground up,”
said Calder. “We’re going up against teams
much more established that us, but we’re just
concentrating on playing the best we can.”

The Wildcats (2-4) return to‘action March
30 when they host California in Richard
Stadium. The game is slated to begin at 5:00
p.m.
