Wenger a awareness erally, OXFAM dinner kick off week of hunger issue events

By JT Toventino
News Editor

The booths all had one message — hunger
awareness.

The Hunger Awareness Rally, sponsored
by CROP, was held last Friday afternoon
with the purpose of exposing the students to
the problem of hunger and poverty here at
home and abroad.

Chris Cho ‘01, along with Carrie Arthur
‘Ol, organized the three-hour even held in
front of the Union.

Arthur wanted to “build a sense of commu-
nity” through the rally, making “people more
aware how hunger and poverty pervades all
issues, and affects everyone directly and tradi
rectly.”

Cho agrees, and added “students are not
very aware [of the hunger problem] because
of the way we were brought up. We don’t

’ have that much exposure [to the problem).”

The problem lies in that many students do
not understand the scope of hunger and pov-
erty, especially the breadth of the problem
not only on an international scale, but here in
the United States.

According toa report released by the Clinton
Administration, nearly 10% of American
households are at risk of going hungry. This
statistic “just blew me away,” commented
Cho.

“We are the wealthiest nation in the world,
but we have 10% of the households going
hungry.”

Arthur pointed out that ever 3.6 seconds;
someone dies from hunger or hunger-related
causes.

At the same time, Arthur wanted to clarify
the purpose for the rally: “We want people to
care, and to think about how their actions
affect other people.,Jt’s not to make people

-feel guilty, but to make people aware and

concerned.”

Cho added, “to get the complete story,
people need to know somebody who is poor,
and needs to be involved in dialogue, and
very few people have done that. Once some-
one know someone who is hungry and know
what they are struggling with, you realize that
things need to be fair.”

Student Support

“T would say that everyone has been sup-
ported,” said Arthur. She believed that there
was a lot of support from other organizations
in Davidson.

Eight organizations joined in the hunger -

rally with CROP, including DIA, the Envi-
ronmental Action Coalition, and the Young

Democrats. The organizations contributed to
a different angle for the hunger cause.

The EAC presented the need for hunger
awareness from an environmental perspec-
tive.
EAC, noted that “if Americans eat less that
10% less meat, the land and water energy that
would be greed can be used to fee 100 million
people.

Sean Gantt ‘03, committee head for Ani-
mal Rights, pointed out that “the less meat we
eat, the more land is going to be used to feed
other people.”

Marie Sharp ‘01 agreed with Gantt, saying,
“meat is very wasteful and very inefficient.
We don’t use our resources efficiently. We
have so many people around the world [be-
cause] we are very wastetul. Weare not very
careful of our resources.’

Hannah Brown ‘02, co-president of the
Young Democrats, said that her organization
“thinks that it is an important issue that needs
to be addressed in the country. Democrats try
to lower the poverty line, and help those in
need through welfare, food stamps, and medi-
cal care.”

She emphasized that those who support
such issues should voice their support through
voting.

Overall, however, Arthur believed that there
was “a fair showing, but there was not as
many people as we would like.” However,

- she emphasized that every person that comes

and listens to the cause is important.

The Drive to Equalize

Cho began her quest to curb hunger just
recently. It wasn’t until her experience in
Jerusalem when she became an advocate for
hunger and poverty awareness.

Cho did service work in a poor suburb in
Jerusalem, teach art to kids‘in the local com-
munity. She developed several art projects to
teach the kids.

“They are supposed to be really loud and
rambunxious, but they seemed really tired
and it seemed like they were too tired to enjoy
anything.”

At first, Cho thought that the lack of enthu-
siasm was because of her “boring” projects.
She talked with the director of the program
about her observations about the tired chil-
dren.

“She told me that you have to understand
that most of these families are immigrant
families and they have come with nothing
and they are not eating enough.”

This realization affected Cho deeply. She
was not expecting hunger or any problems
such as hunger “because Israel is a first world

Jill Neumeyer ‘01, president of the’

country.”

The experience proved to be a turning point
in Cho’s life. It gave her a sense that she
needed to work for hunger and poverty.

“T needed to start some poverty advocacy
group.”

Since her return from Jerusalem, Cho has
invested much of her energy in promoting
hunger and poverty awareness, with the help
of Arthur. Now co-coordinator of CROP,
Cho hopes to bring her message of hunger
awareness and poverty awareness to the col-

- lege community at Davidson.

In terms of acting on her newfound mis-
sion, Cho believes that a grassroots move-

ment such as that which she is a part of is’

important.

“From the grassroots levels, (the cause)
balloons into something that happens nation-
ally, and that balloons into something glo-
bally. That’s why I had the rally.”

She believes that the fair on Friday will
have the greatest impact on Davidson stu-
dents.

Hunger Awareness Week
The Hunger Awareness Rally was the kick
off event for Hunger Awareness: Week, a
seven-day event that will end Thursday.

Dr. Maiz-Pena addresses the OXFAM dinner.

Wennespav, Octoain 18, 2000

On Saturday, they participated in the Glean-
ing Network, packaging potatoes that have
been salvaged for poor and hungry families.

“They will take vegetables to food pantries
in the area,” according to Arthur.

‘On Sunday, David Beckmann, President of
Bread of the World, spoke on hunger and on
Jubilee 2000, a movement to forgive the
debts of poor nations.

The OXFAM Dinner was held this past
Monday in Vail Commons. The dinner simu-
lated the true distribution of food in the world,
to drive home the impact of what it is like to
live in poverty and hunger.

Arthur said that “142 people signed up for
the dinner, but I would be thrilled if just fifty
people signed up.” Her main concern is that
she reaches out to some people.

Tuesday night was the homeless panel dis-
cussion, where homeless persons told of their
stories about being homeless and what life is
like dealing with hunger issues personally.

Hunger Awareness Week ends this Thurs-
day. The Commons Lunch Fast is today,
where student can chose to skip any meakat
the dining hall, donating the value of the meal
to Loaves and Fishes. The final events will
the Letter Writing Marathon on Thursday.

Erin Berry

Campaign,
from page 1

Vagt. ‘Nevertheless, he noted that ifthe
school wants to sustain or even to increase its
level of diversity, Davidson needs greater
financial flexibility. “Diversity,” said Vagt,
“must be more than race, gender, culture, or
religion; it must be socioeconomic as well.”
As such, the college admits the need for
greater funding in this area.

Second, Davidson hopes to increase the
percentage of students receiving need-based
financial aid. Roughly speaking, about a
third of current Davidson students receive
need-based aid, a level that has remained
constant over the past fifty years. Adminis-
trators want to raise this fraction to over forty
percent. This desire is in part a reaction to the
practices of schools in Davidson’s peer group,
which, according to Vagt, on average give aid
to about forty percent of their students.

In particular, increasing the endowed por-
tion of financial assistance will enable the
college to be more aggressive in targeting
public high schools. According to Cable,
Davidson is fighting the reputation asa school
for rich kids. “Students are making assump-

tions about us, and if we don’t speak to those
assumptions, then we are missing out on
students who could contribute to Davidson.”

Perhaps more importantly, both adminis-
trators and donors feel that a Davidson educa-
tion-should-be available to-all-capable stu-
dents, regardless of financial considerations.
Noted Stevenson-McNeely, “[Increasing our
endowed financial aid] will ensure that we
are getting the most qualified students, re-
gardless of background. Personally, I think
it’s the right thing to do.”

Vagt concurred, “Alumni say to me, ‘My
Davidson education was the best thing that
has ever happened to me, and I want anyone
to be able to have that experience.” As
evidence of this willingness to give, the school
already has commitments totaling more than
$100 million.

Third, Davidson intends to cap the debt of
graduating students at ten percent of the cost
of education. Presently, the. financial aid
office keeps the maximum portion of its
proposed aid packages consisting of loans at
or below $5,500 a year. In the future, this
figure will decrease to roughly $3,000 a year.

As Cable explained, “We don’t want stu-
dents to feel that they have to have a top-
paying job coming out of college to pay off
their loans. If they want to become a mission-

ary in sub-Saharan Africa, they should be.
able to pursue their interests.”

Fourth, the college wants to increase the
amount of merit-based aid as well. The

‘expansion of the Belk Scholars program is an

important first step_towards this goal.
Stevenson-McNeely demonstrated that this
will increase the total amount of aid available
to all students. “Proportionally, the number
of students receiving a Belk Scholarship who
are ‘needy’ should be comparable to that of
the general student body. If they receive a
merit scholarship, then that frees up other
funds [for need-based assistance].”

Faculty Support and Academic
Facilities

Two other important aspects of this cam-
paign are increases in faculty compensation
and improvements in academic facilities.

Approximately $25 million of the drive
will be used to shore up faculty resources.
Noted Vice President for Academic Affairs
and Dean of the Faculty Clark Ross, “A

‘cornerstone of this campaign is continuing to .

be able to attract and retain the best faculty

and to offer competitive compensation.”
Davidson hopes to increase the number of

named professorships as a way to honor truly

exemplary scholars, asserted Ross. In addi-
tion, the school hopes to be able to offer
entry-level salaries comparable to those of
peer institutions.

Academics will also benefit from improve-
ments in several key buildings. The new
performance hall adjacent to the Knobloch
Campus Center is the first in a series of
planned structural projects. Grey Building,
currently containing the student union, will
be converted into the new home for the music
department. Then the college will turn its
attention to renovation of Chambers. ‘Under
this plan, the school will refurbish existing
offices and classrooms and add new ones.

High Hopes

Despite the broad scope of the capital cam-
paign, expectations of success are great:

Vagt emphasized that Davidson has al-
ready produced some results on this front.
“Responsiveness [from donors] has been in-
credible,” he remarked. »

Cable stressed that these goals are entirely
within reach. “These are realizable hopes,”
she confirmed. Moreover, the chance to offer
greater opportunities to students is a big part
of this institution. “(This campaign] builds

_ on what is best about Davidson.”
