By EmiLy SHINGLER
Guest Writer

Patterson Court is thriving this semester
under the leadership of the new Patterson
Court Advisor, Craig Rinker. Service has
quickly become a top priority for all of the
‘houses. The houses on the court have come

together to raise money for the American
Cancer Society in this year’s Relay for Life.
The event will take place on April 28" and
29th. Ida Wainschel and Mike Schaefer, the
Patterson Court Council Service Chairs, are
extremely pleased with the enthusiasm for
service they have found this Spring on
Patterson Court. There are 25 teams regis-
tered for Relay For Life this year, compared
with last year’s | 1 teams. “The event is going
to be a great party. There will ‘be music,
movies, games, food, an aerobics class , a
kick boxing class, and other activities. The
house service chairs for Patterson Court are
doing a phenomenal job and we're well on
our way to an extremely successful and fun
event,” Wainschel said.

In addition to Relay for Life, the houses
on the court are busy working on their own

individual service projects:

e Several brothers of Pi Kappa Alpha have
been tutoring students at Mooresville High
School twice a week this semester in every-
thing from English to Physics. They recently

Ada. They are planning similar car washes in
the future to benefit other charities in the
surrounding area. Currently, they are getting
involved with a Police Athletic League base-

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

ball team to help coach and tutor their players
until the end of the semester.

¢ The women of Connor House are cur-
rently forming a group that will be assisting
the town of Davidson with its Easter egg
hunt. This event, held annually on the town

greg@fi, Wl take place on Thursday, April 20,
CONNOR:
worlterrs e usés-on Cantpes, Certhor

sponsored the Operation Smile Festival on
April 7th from 4-8. They will also be support-
ing KA’s KArnival on April 15th with a face
painting booth.

¢ — Earlier this semester, the pledgemasters
and freshmen pledges of Phi Delt assisted the
American Cancer Society in Charlotte in its

with limited resources.

kids from the local tutoring and Big Brother
programs. Volunteers outside of Phi Delt
would be welcome at this event.

¢ Warner Hall is currently planning a pro-
gram at CMC for the freshmen, where they

pamici™te fh art therapy for children with
ca Wihey Ace h
KAMiva¥fu i n

_as wellas soliciting businesses in the commu-

nity.

e  InFebruary, the brothers of Kappa Sigma
participated in a community service project
at Joshua’s Farm. The farm is set up to help
disabled children work with their disabilities
on a real working farm. Kappa Sigma was

among many other local volunteers. The four-
teen volunteers spent four hours each clear-
ing brush and chopping wood. All the partici-
working

have also
Habitat for
for cystic Tibrosis w1 og cookout in
early February. Additionally, they are plan-
ning a community-wide service event called
Bowling for Babies on April 15 to benefit
cystic fibrosis.

¢ Every Tuesday afternoon from 5-6pm,
volunteers from Turner run a program called
Choice Tuesday at Ada Jenkins Community
Center. Turner women venture to Ada Jenkins
for a fun filled hour of cooking with the 2nd,
and 5th graders enrolled in the Ada

enki niga ftegse I the
“SP URNER:
reading and following recipes, measuring,
stirring, boiling, and having fun. With the
help of the Turner volunteers, the little chefs
have made everything from mini pizzas and
Chex Mix, to rice and beans and Valentines
Day cookies.

e This semester, Rusk Eating House is
challenging itself to gain 100 % house .par-
ticipation in service activities. Their projects
include working with the Relatives (a transi-
tion

r kids), Project H.A.L.O. (a
shelter i abitat
for H 3 EIS deo
Food i ring/

tutoring program for pregnant teenagers),
and various tutoring organizations in the com-
munity. They have also joined forces with
other eating houses in purchasing a race car

THURSDAY; APRIL 13, 2000

ervice on the Court

‘items to auction’

for KA’s carnival.

¢ This semester’s service for Kappa Alpha
has focused around helping the Muscular
Dystrophy Association. Their major goal for
the semester is to raise money for MDA to
send Children to a special summer camp.
KA’s central Spring service activity is the
annual KArnival (April 15") to benefit MDA.
The brothers of KA have raised over $5,500
in corporate advertising, donations, and MDA
Shamrocks. The Karnival will feature Cast
Iron Filter, Thunderdome Racing, a
Moonbounce, dunk tank with President Vagt,
a Carolina Panther signing autographs, a

Harley s ke disglay, and Dale
Earnhardt brothers are
building s the kids in
the comm 9 collected

al, includ-
ing paraphanelia from Roush Racing and
Hendrick Motorsports, 4 NASCAR tickets,
Carolina Duke game basketball tickets, and
many others. In addition, 25 brothers recently
went to volunteer at the Mooresville MDA
Lock-Up: Brothers went in throughout the
day and helped sign people in at the event.
The event raised over $44,000 for MDA. A
few weeks ago, 10 brothers volunteered at
the Charlotte Hoop It Up. The money raised
at this event went to the Relatives, an organi-
zation that helps runaway teens.

e The members of Fiji recently adopted
the section of Griffith Street between I-77

and Main gh ti Admpt-A-High-
way programm. Sheygmill balyorlig on that at
least onc meg t he semes-

ter, and plan to make it a permanent part of
their service efforts.

Davidson celebrates feminism

By ANNE STANCIL
Guest Writer

On March 30 seventeen Davidson stu-
dents traveled to Baltimore, Maryland for the
second Feminist Expo. Sponsored by the
Feminist Majority Foundation and 575 other
organizations, the Expo was truly a global
event, inviting delegations from manynations.

Fifteen women and two men represented
the Davidson community at the conference.
During the weekend they had the op-

female and male— invaded Baltimore for the
conference, and each was filled with enthusi-
asm. Participants from around the globe came
to speak about their country’s own feminism
and challenges. Although many of the women
spoke different languages, they were able to
share their feelings of solidarity, excitement,
and empowerment.

Though women have acheived a great
deal since the women’s movement of the

1970's, panelists presented a staggering sta-
tistic which showed that women perform
two-thirds of the world’s work, receive ten
percent of the world’s wages, and own less
than one percent of the world’s property.
Inthe United States, forexample, women
earn approximately 77 cents for every dollar
aman earns. Furthermore, the U.S. is one of
only six countries, along with Afghanistan
and Iran, which has not ratified the United

Nations declaration to end all forms of
dicrimination against women.

Davidson’ s participation in the Feminist
Expo was funded by Campus Forums, The
Women’s Issues Committee, the Gender Re-
source Center, President Vagt, and the Dean
of Students Office.

The Women’s Issues Committee will
host an Expo forum on April 19 in the Out-
post in conjunction with Cultural Arts night.

portunity to hear dynamic speakers
such as Gloria Steinem and Carol
Moseley Braun, Ambassador to New
Zealand, discuss the issues surround-
ing feminism in the twenty-first cen-
tury.
Other speakers included poet Bell
Hooks and Gail Dines, who gave a
powerful presentation on pornogra-
phy at Davidson last year. Davidson’s
own Cameron Richardson spoke
about campus activism, sharing her
experiences working with Amnesty
International.

In addition to speakers and pan-
els, the Expo hosted hundreds of US
and global organizations which shared
their information ina gallery of booths
and displays.

Some of the issues discussed
during the weekend were reproduc-
tive freedom and the Taliban in Af-
ghanistan. The Taliban, which cur-
. rently control Afghanistan’s govern-
‘ment, literally imprison women in

their homes. Other issues included
female political involvement and
women and the media.

Six thousand feminists—both

DAVIDSON
COURT »

New, Condominium Community
In Downtown Davidson
Ready for Occupancy
1,2 & 3 Bedrooms
$69,900 to $124,950

Lori Ivester Jackson

Laura Gillikin
581-4234

LAKE PROPERTIES LIMITED
Lake4Sale@aol.com

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP

SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - VEGETABLE SOUP

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AND LIMEADE

‘bet you didn't think of US
| for vegelarian fare!

TheSodaShop

Since 1951

04S. Main St. Davinson, NC

Eat-in Take-out

896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

