THe Davisonian

BY ALEXANDRA OBREGON

Staff Writer

~ In 1946, an eager local high school student
dropped by Davidson College to ask Alumni
Secretary John L. Payne for a summer job.

The young woman was promptly hired, and

she soon’ began work addressing alumni cor-
respondence in the basement of Chambers
Building. Her name was Nancy Blackwell,
and she has worked on behalf of college
alumni continuously for 54 years since that
day!

On Saturday, September 23, Davidson will
pay tribute to “Mrs. B’s” longstanding com-
mitment to the college and the Alumni Rela-
tions Office by dedicating the newly reno-
vated alumni house on Main Street in her
name.

The ceremony will highlight the college’s

Students race to polls, make use

By Linpy BALpwin
Staff Writer

In their analysis of voting trends and polls,
political pundits often cite the widespread
Statistic that voters between the ages of 18
and 24 are the least likely to make the trip to
the polls on Election Day. In the past few
years, many programs — most prominently
“Rock the Vote: — have tried to turn this trend
around.

On September 13 and 14, UCA (United
Community Action) brought “Rock the Vote”

to Davidson’s campus in an effort to help
' more Davidson students request absentee
ballots or in some cases register for the first
time.

Jill Neumayer ’01 was instrumental in or-

annual Homecoming Weekend. It will in-
clude testimonials by alumni who have
worked closely with Blackwell, and presen-
tation of a scrapbook containing mementos
representing what she has shared with alumni
and the college. Presidents Emereti Samuel
Spencer and John Kuykendall will be on hand
to unveil a portrait of Blackwell, which will
hang in permanent display in the Nancy
Overcash Blackwell Alumni House.

Born and raised in Davidson, Blackwell
became a full-time member of. the Alumni
Office staff as soon as she graduated from
Davidson High School in 1947. Since then,
she has continued to work diligently through
the tenures of nine alumni directors and five
college presidents.

Because the alumni office is now located
away from the main academic thoroughfare
of Chambers Building, fewer students than in

ganizing the event. Neumayer explained
UCA wanted to do something to promote
campus involvementin the election, since the
outcome will likely affect all of Davidson’s
service groups whether they tutor at a high
school or help run a food bank.

Volunteers set up computers in Chambers
Gallery and helped guide students through
either Election.com or RockTheVote.com.
Students could request ballots from their home
state in order to vote for governors, congress-
men and senators, although some students —
namely ones from Wyoming and Wisconsin
— weren’t able to utilize the web sites due to
special state restrictions.

Despite the server shutdown Wednesday
morning, “Rock the Vote” helped 100 stu-

_ dents register or request absentee ballots in

Alumni house pays tribute to long-time staffer Blac

the alumni house,”

the past meet her before receiving their diplo-
mas. Once they have graduated, however, she
becomes their main point of contact with the’

college.

As Associate Director of Alumni Rela-
tions, Blackwell is the keeper of the “Class
Notes” that appear in the “Davidson Journal”
alumni magazine. She’s also the friendly face
that greets alumni time and again as they
return for Homecoming and Alumni Week-
end. Before too long, she can identify most of
them by name and year of graduation.

“Obviously, hers is the rightful name for
said former Alumni Di-
rector Brian Tarr. “No one has contributed
more to the alumni effort over the years than
Nancy Blackwell.”

Tarr initiated the renovation and dedica-
tion effort in 1996, when Blackwell celebrated
her 50th anniversary with the college. The

ceremony on September 23 will ‘hing toa =
close a four-year effort to honor her hard
work, loyalty, and kindness. s

The college has also established an endow!’
ment in Blackwell’s name for maintenance
and future renovations to the house. Funds
were contributed by alumni eager to honor
their longtime friend. Tarr noted, “They were
inspired by their affection for Nancy and the
fact that Davidson would honor a long time
employee.”

For her part, Blackwell has taken all the
sudden attention in stride. She continues to
do her work with grace, humility, and no
plans of retiring anytime soon.

“T’m pleased and honored, but I just do my
work like everyone else does,” she said. “I
enjoy coming to work every day. I enjoy
people and I’m in the perfect place to do it.”

of high tech voter registration

Chambers Gallery and many more were re-
ferred to the library or the computer labs due
to a lack of printers. Neumayer hopes those
who registered encouraged friends and room-
mates to do the same.

Jessica Blackburn ’01, a volunteer who
worked for the Gore campaign and registered
voters this summer, saw Rock the Vote as a
natural follow-up. She said sites such as
Election.com help busy students and “make it
a lot easier to figure out what to do” regarding
requests for absentee ballots.

Neumayer agreed electronic registration
“helps people get connected.”

Eileen Beardsley ’04 was one of the first-
time voters who came to Chambers Gallery to
request an absentee ballot. She praised “Rock
the Vote’s” efforts to inform students of their

options.

“A lot of people don’t know how to go
about registering.” Beardsley is still unde-
cided about how she’ll cast her ballot. “The
issues are kind of muddled.”

Official online voting is not yet a reality,
although Election.com is conducting a mock
online election specifically targeted at young
voters. Blackburn feels this is just as well. “It
seems like online elections would be really
open to fraud.”

Students who missed “Rock the Vote” can
still access Election.com or
RockTheVote.com to register or request ab--
sentee ballots.

“Maybe tonight when everyone’s procras-
tinating,”” Neumayer wished jokingly,“ people
will go online and register!”

~

y Service project?
cash to get it start

WHAT IS IT? The Bonner Community Fund is a grant worth up to $4000
designated to help new community service projects get off the ground.

WHAT DOI HAVE TO DO? Pick up a grant application from the Union

basement, write up a proposal of how the funds would be used, and you could receive the
money you need to get your project running.

: HOW MUCH TIME DOI HAVE? Written aeinaiale to the fund committee will be due -

by 5 pm on September 29" in the Union Basement.

Contact Isha Ahsan x5015 with questions

