LONDON (AP) The government called
Monday for the United Nations to create a
military inspectorate and staff college tocom-
mand and train U.N. peacekeeping opera-
tions around the world.

The center could be located in Britain,
according to a report released by the govern-
ing Labor Party and the smaller inte Demo-
crat party.

“No longer must U. N. ‘blue helmets’ stand
by while the most serious crimes against
humanity are being committed,” said the re-
port by Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and
Menzies Campbell, foreign affairs spokes-
man for the Liberal Democrats.

The joint report, released ahead of the
U.N.’s Millennium Summit in New York, a
gathering of 150 world leaders, echoes rec-
ommendations made last month by a U.N.-
appointed international panel.

The panel recommended a total overhaul
of U.N. peacekeeping, including the creation
of the equivalent of a ministry of defense to
modernize and professionalize the peace-
keepers so troops can deploy rapidly and take
action in clear cases of aggression.

The U.N.’s peacekeeping role has come
under fire in recent years after questions

about the U.N.’s passive performance in the -

“1994 Rwanda genocide and the 1995 massa-
cre of thousands of Bosnian Muslims in
Srebrenica, which was supposed to be a U.N.-
protected enclave. :

. The latest embarrassment came in May
when some 500 U.N. peacekeepers were
seized by rebels in the west African nation of
Sierra Leone.

The British report agrees the United Na-
tions must provide better-trained and better-
equipped peacekeepers who can respond
quickly to aggression.

But Cook and Campbell, souaiig to the
British Broadcasting Corp., also called on the
United Nations to go even further:

They pushed for the establishment of a
military staff college to train peackeepers and
a central command center to offer stronger
leadership.

“Britain would be a very logical place to
have it because of our expertise in peacekeep-
ing and our commitment to the United Na-
tions,” Cook told the BBC.

Currently, just 32 officers at U.N. head-
quarters oversee some 27,000 U.N. troops
from 20 countries scattered across the globe
in 14 peacekeeping operations.

Arafat delays declaration of
Palestinian State

By MARIAM FAM
Associated Press Writer

CAIRO, Egypt (AP) A Palestinian state
most likely will not be announced Sept. 13,
the date Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat had
planned to declare independence, Farouk
Kaddoumi, head of the Palestine Liberation
Organization’s political department, said
Monday. .

“September 13 is not a sacred date,”
Kaddoumi told reporters at the close of meet-
ings of Arab foreign ministers. “I think this
will take some time, and not be on the 13th.”

Arab League nations focused on the Pales-
tinian-Israeli peace process during their meet-
ings in Cairo, and reiterated their backing of
a Palestinian state with Jerusalem as its capi-
tal. Arab League Secretary General Esmat
Abdel-Meguid acknowledged, however, that
the 22-member organization lacks the au-
thority to pressure any of the parties in-
volved.

The dispute over Jerusalem, which both
Israelis and Palestinians claim as their capi-
tal, derailed a July peace summit at the U.S.
presidential retreat in Camp David, Mary-
land. There, Israel reportedly offered limited
Palestinian control over east Jerusalem, cap-
tured in 1967, but Palestinians held firm in
‘their position they would not accept anything
less than full sovereignty. The eastern sector

of the city contains the third-holiest Islamic
shrine as well as sites sacred to Jews and
Christians.

Arab League resolutions coming out of the
two-day meeting called for boycotting any
country that transfers its embassy to Jerusa-
lem and acknowledges it as the Israeli capi-
tal—a direct response to U.S. President Bill

_ Clinton’s recent comments he was consider-

ing transferring the U.S. Embassy from Tel
Aviv to Jerusalem before he leaves office in
January.

The secretary general said he doesn’t think
the United States will execute this idea, “be-
cause it has dangerous results and anyone
would have to make very thorough calcula-
tions” before making such a move.

The Arab League also resolved to convene
an annual Arab summit every March, a deci-
sion Abdel-Meguid described as a great ac-
complishment. He added, however, many
procedures remain to be taken before the
decision is ratified, Such an Arab summit has
not been held since 1996 because of divisions
and rivalries among Arab states.

The League also issued a statement urging
Arab countries to support Somali efforts to
rebuild the war-ravaged country.

Abdel-Meguid said it hasn’t yet been de-
cided if the League will provide Somalia with
financial aid.

Security Council demands withdrawal from Congo

UNITED NATIONS (AP) Security Coun-

cil heads of state are expected to urge Congo’s
warring parties to withdraw their forces and
adhere to a much-violated peace agreement
in a declaration to be adopted this week,
diplomats said Monday.

The statement, which is still being negoti-
ated, also calls on the Congolese goverhment
to abide by the agreement’s provisions call-
ing for a national dialogue to form a broad-
based government.

It is expected to be adopted Thursday,
when the heads of state of the 15 Security
Council members hold a special open meet-

' ing on peace and security on the sidelines of
the U.N. Millennium Summit.

The council has decided to make Africa the
focus of Thursday’s deliberations, and the
Congo statement indicates that that conflict is
likely to figure prominently in the debate.

Congo’s civil war broke out two years ago,

when rebels backed by Uganda and Rwanda
took up arms to oust Congolese President
Laurent Kabila from power.

Kabila enlisted the support of Namibia,
Angola and Zimbabwe.

Kabila isn’t expected to attend the Millen-
nium Summit, although the leaders: of the
other warring countries are. Congo will be
represented by the foreign minister,
Abdoulaye Yerodia, officials at Congo’s
mission said Monday.

The statement as currently drafted calls for
the “expeditious” withdrawal of Ugandan
and Rwandan tfoops “‘and further calls for the
withdrawal of all other forces.” .

Diplomats, however, said it may be changed
to more closely parallel language in a June
resolution, which demanded that Uganda and
Rwanda withdraw and that each phase of
their withdrawal be reciprocated by the for-
eign forces backing Kabila.

‘calls for UN war college, overhaul of peacekeeping

The British report also said the United
Nations should require member states to pro-
vide quarterly assessments of the soldiers
available for peacekeeping operations.

Additionally, the report urged the United
Nations to restruture its peacekeeping role to
focus more on conflicts within countries rather
than between nations, and to allow interven-

tion in countries where the likelihood of mass
murder exists. at

Cook told the BBC that the United Nations” a
also should work to make the Security Coun-
cil “more representative of the world as it is
today” by inviting members from other re-
gions of the world, such as Africa and South
America, to sit on it.

Economic disparity in Latin
America hinders development

By STEVEN GUTKIN
Associated Press Writer

CARACAS, Venezuela (AP) The Sambil
shopping mall in eastern Caracas is Latin
America’s largest. It boasts 450 stores, two
movie theaters, an amusement park, a 30,000-
gallon. aquarium—and a McDonald’s where
Big Macs cost a half day’s pay for the average
Venezuelan worker.

_Aslum just afew miles to the west has open
sewers running alongside tin shacks perched
on unstable hillsides, flies buzzing in uncol-
lected garbage and idle young men nursing
bullet wounds.

Blanca Vera, 65, lifts her baby
granddaughter’s blouse to reveal blotches on
her tiny stomach. “This is from the pollu-
tion,” she says.

Among the 12 heads of state who met in
Brazil’s capital last week for the first South
American summit, even those whose coun-
tries have experienced spectacular growth

have been unable to narrow the gap between

shiny mall and poisonous slum.

A decade of economic decline in the 1980s
was only partially reversed in the 1990s, and
the World Bank estimates nearly 40 percent
of the region’s population—or some 175
million people—live in poverty.

The news is not all bad. Absolute poverty
in most Latin American nations appears to be
falling, with key indicators such as infant
mortality, literacy and life expectancy show-
ing improvement.

Still, inequality of wealth and opportunity
is a huge obstacle to development in Latin
America. The existence of so many have-nots
threatens, to undermine the success of the
region’s two great experiments of recent years:
democracy and free markets.

On average, half of each nation’s income

goes to the wealthiest 15 percent of the popu-

lation, the Inter-American Development Bank
says.

In Chile, the highest-paid 6 percent of
workers get 30 percent of salaries, while 75
percent of workers get just 4 percent, accord-
ing to the United Nations’ Economic Com-
mission for Latin America and the Carib-
bean.

In Brazil, the richest 10 percent of the
population accounts for 46 percent of the
wealth, while the poorest 50 percent accounts
for just 14 percent.

The U.S. income gap is not much different
from Latin America’s, but the magnitude of
poverty south of the border is much greater.

Some: blame: the growing inequality on
globalization. Thousands of workers have
been laid off in privatizations of state enter-
prises, and international competition often
drives down wages for low-skilled jobs and
raises pay for jobs requiring greater skills.

In Peru, as in most Latin American nations,
overall poverty went down during the 1990s.
But Oscar Ugarteche, a Peruvian economist
and author, says that cuts in subsidies and
higher utility bills from privatized telephone
and energy sectors have driven up the cost of
living for Peru’s poor.

“Tt’s trickle up, not trickle ae he in- -

sists.
Yet most economists say the real culprit is
not globalization but misguided state policies

that deprive the poor of a decent education,
fail to collect taxes and encourage corruption.

There’s another factor that’s harder to de-
fine but likely is just as real: a culture of
elitism that regards poor people as unworthy.

““Y oucan’t operate in a globalized economy
with a narrow, tiny elite sector that has abso-
lutely no connection or appreciation of the
vast majority of people in society,” said
Michael Shifter, a Latin America specialist at
the Washington-based Inter-American Dia-
logue.

Of all the elements widening the gap be-
tween rich and poor in Latin America, inad-
equate education is probably the most de-
structive. Public schools are in: decay from
Mexico to Argentina, perpetuating the ad-
vantages of the wealthy who almost always
send their children to private schools.

Most Latin American countries have di-
rected precious state resources to universities
at the expense of primary and high schools.
John Scott, an economist in Mexico City,
notes that in Europe there’s an average gap of
two to. four years in education levels between
the richest 10 percent and the poorest 10
percent of the population, while in Mexico
the gap is 10 years.

It’s no accident that two of the region’s
most forward-looking leaders, President-elect
Vicente Fox of Mexico and Chilean Presi-
dent Ricardo Lagos, have made investing in
basic education a cornerstone of their policy
platforms.

Having embraced free-market economic.

reforms, most of the region’s policy-makers
are now looking for ways to bridge the wealth
gap _ concluding that aggressive government
action is needed to ensure poor people benefit
from the increased productivity, income
growth and technological advances that ac-
company globalization.
__Venezuelans have taken that conclusion a
step further, electing as president a leftist
former coup leader who rails against the
wealthy and promises to restore dignity to the
masses. Venezuela’s vast oil reserves—the
largest outside the Middle East—let it avoid
many of the free-market reforms that swept
the rest of Latin America in recent years.

“We have money in this country,” said
Xiomara Tortosa, a Venezuelan activist who
helps organize poor communities in Caracas.
“But there is no policy that directs resources
to where they’re needed most.”

Persistent poverty and inequality have’
turned Venezuela into fertile ground for a
populist like President Hugo Chavez. Many
wealthier Venezuelans fear Chavez’s statist
bent will prevent their country from compet-
ing in the modern world, but the poor still see
him as their best hope.

Interested In the arts?

The Davidsonian
is looking for an arts and living editor.

Pod

Contact Aaron Houck x5564
or Richard Vinson x6213

