THE DAVIDSONIAN

GRC sponsors |.

fashion show

ANN GREGORY
News Editor

Saran wrap, magazine dresses, and a
painted-on tuxedo typified the “first annual”
Gender Resource Center fashion show in
Chambers Gallery last Saturday.

Seniors Dan Wingate and Bill Stoops
served as the masters of ceremony for the
show, which centered around the theme of
“Body Image in the Media.”

Stoops, in a spiked collar, and Wingate,
sporting a tuxedo shirt painted on his body,
introduced the various acts, beginning with
the women of the GRC.

Befitting the theme of the evening, they
showcased dresses made entirely from maga-
zine pages. -The rest of the show featured
dances, a “dominator and dominatrix” rou-
tine, a rendition of real life Barbie and Ken
dolls, and several performances involving
the stripping of conventional media-inspired
ideals.

The Davidson band Writing in the Grey
played three songs during the show’s inter-
mission .

This is the first year that the fashion
show has been sponsored by the Gender
Resource Center. BGLAD, formerly known
as FLAG, voted to stop hosting the fashion
show because they felt that “the fashion
show was offensive to members of. .FLAG,”

‘Anna Judy

says former chair Alexis Boehmler ’02.

“It seemed to perpetuate stereotypes of
homosexuality, such as being highly sexual.”

The GRC decided to take on the project
with the intention of “continuing the tradi-
tion of the fashion show, but-with a different
spin,” says the show’s coordinator, sopho-
more Christy Beesley.

“We wanted to open it up more, to a
broader possibility of themes and ideas to
explore within the show.”

At the same time, however, the GRC
wanted to get back to the roots of the fashion
show. “Recently it had begun to be seen as a
forum for risqué, sexual exhibitionism. We
wanted to get it back to what it was to begin
with: more of a fashion show,” said Beesley.

One difference in the show this year was
that it was conspicuously short, due to, ac-
cording to Beesley, “lots of last minute can-
cellations.”

She also speculates that more people did
not sign up because of confusion about the
name change.

Regardless of the brevity, Beesley was
content with the final result. “The acts we did
have were really good, people really seemed
to enjoy it. I’m thankful to those who partici-
pated as well as to everyone who attended.”

The show raised $475, which will go
towards the Clothesline project for female
victims of abuse.

Anna Judy

” Press RELEASE

Richard Terry, director of auxiliary ser-
vices, will also help set direction for area
businesses as chair of the Lake Norman
Chamber of Commerce during the year 2001.

Terry, who has served as treasurer of
the organization for the past three years, was
appointed chair-elect for the year 2000 re-
cently. He will serve this year as assistant to
local realtor and current board chair Charles
Knox ’86.

Terry has been the college’s represen-
tative to the Chamber for the past four years,
and seen its membership double to a current
size of 800 members and its budget rise to
$300,000 annually. He acknowledges that
the college is not a typical chamber busi-
ness. “Our customer-base is finite, and not
local, and we don’t do much for outside
groups,” he admitted.

Then he added, “But the college has a
significant interest in the way this area de-
velops. Cornelius and Huntersville have al-
most as big an impact on the quality of our
students’ experiences as Davidson does. It’s
that shared interest in the quality of life here
that gives us a lot in common with other
chamber members.”

His involvement has led him to a better
appreciation for members of the local busi-
ness community. He commented, ““They all
cherish the quality of life here, and aren’t in
business strictly for making money. I sense

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17, 2000

in them areal pride and appreciation for
these communities.”
Through its Business After. Hours,
Power Lunch and Business Works pro--
grams it provides an opportunity formem-__
bers to network and learn about business _
management. Through its office in Shops
on the Green, it also promotes tourism to _
the area through a web site, a CD, and —
kiosks at N.C. Welcome Center.
Terry said the chamber has also been
active in lobbying for state road funds for o
this area, and also has lobbied for educa-_
tion bonds. “I'don’ t expect the chamber to :
be a social activist, but certain things like _
education pretty clearly contribute to an .
attractive community, and we’ll press for

" them and support them.”

The chamber’s connection with the
college will be strengthened on January
15, when its annual banquet will be held
for the first time at Vail Commons, Terry
expects more than 300 members and guests
to attend.

_ Aschairin 2001, Terry will preside at
monthly meetings of the 20-member board,
determine a plan of action for the year, and
set a budget. The duties will require a
significant amount of his time, and will |
require him to become much more well
versed in local politics and issues. He
added, “It’s also a commitment to attend
ribbon cuttings just about every week!”

Models pose during the GRC fashion show.

Avoid the Exit #28
Traffic...
A short drive to
Exit #33
for shipping and
copying.

Our networked copiers

Providing Professional Postal & Business Services

¢ Shipping Service
@ FedEx, UPS, US Postal
= * Packing Service

POSTNET.

(POSTAL & BUSINESS SERVICES And Supplies

W 835F Williamson Road © * Copy Services ©
we Watermark Centere Exit33 ™ @ @ Color, Staple, Bind
660-1511 ¢ Fax 660-1512 & ° Office Supplies
We make your business and home projects * Printing Services
EASIER and oe Professional. Color From Disks

i T Anne oa eS ee ee ¢ Laminating
can copy from your disk $900 OFF 14 0 FREE Copies Oversized Too!
we 1 Davidson Students 1 Davidson Students 1 * Greeting Cards
Go Wildcats!!: - & Staff only A & Staff only . ¢ Gift Wrap

