By KHoury AsHOOH
Columnist

The past eight years have been highlighted
by both economic progress and personal
achievements, and they have been marred by
political turmoil and personal failings.

The White House has been at the center of
this almost nauseating mix since Bill Clinton
became president in 1993. For his few per-
sonal achievements (mostly in the form of
executive orders), he has had innumerable
personal and political shortcomings. The
next president needs to be a person capable of
carrying America beyond the memories of
The Impeached One.

It is my hope that between the time of the
writing and the publishing of this column,
Governor George W. Bush will become the
president-elect. Only he has the capability to
unite both sides in Washington, and only he
can carry America forward into a new age of
respect, responsibility, and accomplishment.

It is difficult for me to write knowing that
this column will be published after the elec-
tion, but in the past few weeks, Bill Clinton
has left me no shortage of topics about which
to write. I am not making an effort to com-
ment on his effectiveness as a president,
because I am more interested in how he has
acted as a man, especially in recent weeks.
This is not to say, however, that Governor
Bush will be ineffective as a president while
being a great man. Governor Bush will bring
greatness back to the Oval Office while bring-
ing a spirit of cooperation and compromise
back to Capitol Hill. ,

Bill Clinton recently posed for the cover of

-a base level.

America has had enoug of Bill Clinton and

the December issue of Esquire magazine,
which contains alengthy exit interview. This
picture has been dubbed “Monica’s Eye
View.” Though this label is appropriate, it is
a shame that GescHpeOns of the president
have dropped to such

This is how Bill
Clinton views his ’
office. It is a joke to
him. He sees noth-
ing wrong with ap-
pearing insuchasug-
gestive pose. He is
not presidential, and
it is obvious that
holding the highest
office in the country
for eight years has
done nothing to ad-
vance his maturity.
This manis the presi-
dent of the United
States, and this lurid
pose shows exactly
how far removed he
has caused prestige
and respect to be from the presidency.

The text of the article also contains evi-
dence of Clinton’s immaturity. He demon-
strates at length his arrogance, most notably
when he says that he has apologized about
impeachment. He feels that he should be
exonerated because of his heartless apology.
He thinks that an apology was something
extra that he did, something above and be-
yond what was necessary.

This is where his immaturity comes in. Bill

Clinton does not recognize that when you do
wrong, an apology is not “going the extra
mile,” rather it is the most simple but univer-

sal expectation. His is the kind of belief

system that shows well the differences be-
tween him and other
corrupt presidents,
such as Richard

Nixon.
Nixon had the char-
acter to admit his
faults.

‘Another wave of
arrogance flew out
of Clinton’s mouth

_ last week. He said
that Al Gore was
“the next best thing”

term in an effort to
justify voting for the
vice president. This
is ridiculous. This
fluff is exactly the
attitude that Gover-
nor Bush aims to
drive out of Wash-
ington.

Here it helps to mention the recent disclo-
sure that Governor Bush was arrested in 1976
on a DUI charge in Maine. First, unlike the
antics that Bill and Al participated in, Bush’s
arrest occurred outside of elected office. There
is no excuse for what Bush did, and unlike
Bill and Al, he did not try to offer one. He
admitted that he was wrong, that he learned
his lesson, and that he was not misleading
anyone. In fact, he was right. Governor Bush

At least

to a Clinton third .

made mistakes pete ill and /
did. The key differenée is that Bill and
still making these egregious errors, while
Governor Bush has grown iasag them and
learned his lesson.

The.contrast is this: When Bill was asked
about Monica Lewinsky, he wagged his fin-
ger saying that he “did not have sexual rela-
tions with that woman, Ms. Lewinsky.” When

-Al was asked about fiind-raising practices, he

told us that there was “no controlling legal
authority.” When Governor Bush was asked
about this DUI, he admitted it, admitted that
he was wrong, and he was candid about his
feelings. He was direct, and there was no
attempt to cover up this misdeed. In fact, this
episode gave Bush the chance to show just
how far he has come since the DUI incident;
Bush has not had a drink of alcohol since
1986.

Therein lies some of the evidence that Bill
Clinton is immature. His denials, arrogance,
and immaturity need to be flushed from Wash-
ington and from The White House. Governor
Bush is the man for the job. Bill Clinton has
done more than just lie and cheat. He has
destroyed the notion of respect that the office
of the presidency demands.

It is time for a new president to restore this
respect, and the only candidate who can do it
is Governor Bush. I look forward to the
coming time in which Americans will again
be able to disagree with their president on
ideas while admiring him for his personal
greatness. (Goodbye, Bill, and please go
crawl back under the rock from which you
came. You will not be missed.)

Behind the rhetoric: the truth about affirmative action

By ALEX MASSENGALE AND JosH CRAFT
Columnists

Masked inside George W. Bush’s “com-
passionate conservatism” is a complete indif-
ference towards minorities and women. Bush
pays lip service to equality without actually
outlining a policy that will truly work to-
wards that goal.

Bush seems to believe that by speaking
about inclusion, equality will magically ap-
pear. But equality doesn’t just happen; it has
to be actively fought for and promoted by our
nation’s leaders.

The new rhetoric emanating from the con-
servative movement suggests that gains by
minority groups and woman can only be
achieved at the expense of white men. The
likes of such illustrious figures as the LAPD’s
Mark Furman and Louisiana’s own David
Duke complain that white men are becoming
anendangered species. Butthese mencouldn’t
be further from the truth. As Chris Rock said,
“If ya’’Il are losin’, who’s winnin’? It ain’t
us.”

One area where white males certainty aren’t
the one’s losing is in our judicial system. In
his own state and in his platform George W.
Bush _ has ignored the need for judicial re-
form. He and prominent members of his party
ignore the facts and insist that our system is
fundamentally fair.

Our legal system is a shining example of
the distinct advantages of the “white male” in
the U.S. According to the ACLU, “Jim Crow
justice is alive and well”. Unfortunately they
are right, not only are black men more likely
to be charged, convicted of, and punished
harshly for the same crimes than white men,
but crimes against them, if tried at all, also
carry lesser punishments.

Our legal system is rife with racism. For
instance, in Georgia the killer of a white

person is 4.3 times more likely to receive the

death penalty than the killer of a non white
_person (www.nodeathpenalty.org), and a
_ Study in Philadelphia in 1993 revealed that
blacks are almost three times as likely to be
struck as potential jurors in death penalty

cases.

If only it stopped there. The St. Petersburg
Times reported on October 31, 2000 that “For
over 15 years, the nation’s drug laws have
punished crack dealers, who tend to be black,
more harshly than those who sell powder
cocaine, who tend to be white.” These are just
three of the countless examples of blatant and
unjustified discrimination that serve as con-
crete proof that black men do not get a fair
shake under our current judicial system.

Another area of concern is Bush’s stance
on affirmative action. Bush states that he
supports “Affirmative Access, ” which is
nothing more than mindless rhetoric, a sys-
tem that magically fixes societies problems
without actually doing anything (no, George
there isn’t a Santa Claus). When given the
chance during the debates, Bush couldn’t
even define affirmative access. It’s meaning-
less political jargon that Bush uses to make
himself look compassionate.

-He believes that affirmative action is un-
justified because it causes reverse discrimi-
nation. Oh really? There is no evidence to
suggest that white men are at risk because of
affirmative action. Nor is there any evidence
that affirmative action causes “a divisive
workplace” as Bush argued in the debates.
It’s merely fiery rhetoric that finds no basis in
fact.

However, there is new and powerful evi-

‘dence that federal affirmative action pro-

grams made positive gains for the economy,
society, and for minorities. The New York
Times reported on October 17, 2000 that the
non-partisan American Economic

Association’s most recent report shows that

affirmative action produces “tangible ben-
efits for women, for minority entrepreneurs,
students and workers, and for the overall
economy.” Harry Holzer of Georgetown
University and David Neumark of Michigan
State University showed that employment of
women and minorities rose 10-15 percent
since the start of the program. College admis-
sions for blacks rose by a factor of three since
the early 1960s.

Most importantly, the authors found that .

affirmative action appointees do not “dimin-
ish the overall performance of the economy.”
Interviews with thousands of employers and
supervisors showed that these appointees were
ranked as highly as ordinary hires in work
performance.

Lastly, the study also showed that affirma-
tive action programs greatly benefit society
as a whole. For example, more black medical
students choose to serve in inner cities and
rural communities than do white students.
These students help those areas overcome
economic hardship and find good medical
care. All this without negatively affecting the
supposedly beleaguered white male.

We must open a meaningful dialogue on
these issues if these profound injustices are to
be remedied. This would not happen under a
Bush presidency. The arguments conserva-
tives use against affirmative action are the

same arguments they employed against both
the civil rights movement and the women’s
liberation movement. Their fear is as unjus-
tified as it is palpable and can be clearly seen
inads suchas Jesse Helm’s infamous “Hands”
ad and the political rhetoric of men like Rush
Limbaugh and George W. Bush. None of
their previous predictions came true.

Giving rights to minorities didn’t infringe
on the rights of those in the majority as
Wallace feared. And legions of women didn’t
turn to lesbianism as Helms feared.

Their fears are not only unjustified but
trivialize real persecution. Conservatives
should no longer pretend that white men are
persecuted in America. Women whomake73_ -
cents on the dollar and minorities who are
denied justice face discrimination. “WASP’s”
don’t.

I love working at the Commons. As with
any job, I’ve had up and down days. But the
way I look atit, Ichose to apply here because
Ihave always wanted to work here at David-
son College

When I was in my twenties, thirty-some
years ago, I liad a friend who worked in the
laundry, and even though she may or may
not remember me, she is still here. Her
name is Juanita. I also had another very.

| good friend who worked here until her very

untimely death last year. Her name was
Virginia Houston.

Since Coming to Davidson College nearly
three years ago, I’ ve meta lot of new friends,
each one unique in his or her own way. This
includes co-workers, supervisors, and stu-
dents.

I especially enjoy meeting and talking to
the students. ‘have unofficially adopted a
lot of them. Then again, all of them are
special.

My pertonal goals: to always by helpful

Letter from Vail Commons

‘mother, and a good example to my two

and.a friend to everyone, and one day to be
able to write a book. I love writing poetry,
and I want to write children’s books. I also
want to be an inspiration to my 90-year-old

daughters and to my six grandchildren.
My motto in life: I don’t want to live
above you, I’m satisfied to live on the same
level!

Pearlene
Ivery,
Vail Commons

