This semester’s juggling class, taught by veteran juggler Bill Giduz, will participate in this year’s

Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festival.

BY Matt GARFIELD
News Editor

The skies around Davidson will be
filled with flying objects of all shapes and
sizes this weekend when the College Union
hosts the Hurricane Hugo Juggling Festi-
val.

Professional jugglers and “object
manipulators” will showcase their talents
and offer free lessons to anyone interested
in learning to juggle.

The festival, in its third year at the
college, begins Friday at 4 p.m. with the
Object Manipulation Olympics.

Events begin this Friday and end Sunday morning. |

‘Hugo’ Festival draws jugglers.

Events include the always-
exciting one-ball stationary high-toss, in
which participants toss a ball as high as
they can and attempt to catch it without
moving their feet, and the edge-of-your-
seat thriller known as three-egg juggling,
which challenges brave contestants to test
their skills with raw eggs.

Despite the risk of spilling yellow ,
goo, all over yourself, Media Relations
Director and veteran juggler Bill Giduz
encourages all fun-seekers to participate.

“It’s geared at a level that anyone
can participate and have a good time,” said
Giduz, who teaches the art of juggling to

about 50 students every year—fulfilling
their lifetime sport physical education
requirement.

The festival concludes Sunday
morning at 10 a.m. with a “Vaudeville
Brunch” in Vail Commons. Jugglers will
put on a 45-minute comedy show including
magic and other vaudeville skills. Vaude-
ville is a stage-variety comedy style
popular in the 1930s and 1940s. -

The festival got its name from the
Hurricane Hugo, the massive 1989 storm
whose high winds sent objects hurling
through the air.

second fiddle with
VP debate

WINSTON-SALEM (AP) _ Wake Forest
University may be left playing second fiddle
under a proposal by George W. Bush that
would eliminate a presidential debate oncam-
pus schedled by a nonpartisan commission.

The Republican presidential nominee pro-
posed Sunday making the Winston-Salem
school the host for one of two debates be-
tween the candidates for vice president and -
not for president.

“It’s disappointing, but it would still be a
very interesting process,” said Allan Louden,
an associate professor of communications at
Wake Forest..

Bush announced Sunday he had accepted
three prime-time debates with Democratic

- nominee Al Gore, who quickly rejected the

Texas governor’s terms.

The Bush proposal calls for debates be-
tween him and Gore Sept. 12 in a special,
prime-time édition of NBC’ s “Meet the Press,”
Oct. 3 in Los Angeles on CNN’s “Larry King
Live,” and Oct. 17 at Washington University
in St. Louis. A second vice presidential de-
bate would be at a location yet to be set.

Wake Forest spokesman Kevin Cox said

- Sunday the university had not heard from the

Bush campaign, or from the Commission on
Presidential Debates, a nonpartisan. group
that planned the presidential debate schedule
that included Wake Forest.

The commission has proposed presidential
debates in Winston-Salem, Boston and St.
Louis. The panel suggest a vice presidential
debate for Danville, Ky.

The university, like other potential hosts of
debates, has paid the commission $550,000
to help cover costs of the debate, Cox said.

“If there were not a debate, I’m sure we
would recover much of that,” Cox said.

Cox said he hopes that university officials
will talk to the commission Monday. Com-
mission members have a scheduled visit in
Winston-Salem on Wednesday, but it’s un-
clear now if they will still come.

If the presidential debate is held at Wake
Forest, it would mark the second time that
such an event has occurred on the campus. In
1988, Democrat Michael Dukakis debated
Republican George Bush, the father of George
W. Bush, at Wake Forest’s Wait Chapel.

Man’s old fraternity house now houses his start-up company

By SCOTT ANDERSON
The Ann Arbor News

ANN ARBOR, Mich. (AP) _ When you.
open the iron gate and step through the chapel-
like arched door, you almost expect to hear a
chorus of Gregorian monks echo through the
. walls. The ornate stained glass seems to filter

the air with a sense of history. Every step
creaks as you walk, summoning a presence of
the past. | :

Then you remember _ this is a former
fraternity house. Wait a minute, it’s actually
a tech start-up.

To Dick Beedon, CEO of the new firm
Sporglt, it’s both. The Ann Arbor entrepre-
neur is rare proof that you can go home again,
or at least start a business there.

The story behind the speech data software
company started in the mid-70s, when Beedon
was a student at the University of Michigan
and restarted the dormant Delta Kappa Epsi-
lon chapter. He partied many a night in the old
meeting house, found in a quiet cove on
William Street near the corner of State Street.
Gerald Ford, U.S. president at the time and a
DKE himself, even stopped by the fraternity

‘house in 1974 when he gave a commence-
ment speech at the university.

Following graduation in 1976, Beedon went
to California, where he literally wandered
into IBM to see if they were hiring. They
were. Aftgr stints with other firms as a sales
representative, Beedon quit working for oth-
ers and created a CD-ROM program about
Notre Dame football. —

Other Big 10 colleges were soon interested
and the venture turned into a college sports
Web site _ http://www.FansOnly.com. Justa
year ago, after merging Fansonly.com with
Student Advantage, which went public,
Beedon decided to, return to Ann Arbor after
getting engaged to a local woman.

Beedon said he got the bug to create an-
other company, which he planned to locate
on the East Coast and manage from Michi-
gan. Those plans changed drastically when
he received a call from DKE executive direc-
tor David Easlick, who told Beedon he was
looking for a tenant to rent the fabled frater-
nity house. Beedon jumped at the chance.

“T lost a lot of brain cells in this building _
I hope I can get a few of them back,” said

Beedon, an enthusiastic yet easygoing man .

who’s quick with a funny story,
The Sporglt lease, which is up in Decem-

ber, has helped the organization gain revenue

on the property and-pay off property taxes,

Easlick said.

“Tt-turned out to be a pretty good deal for
both of_us,” said Easlick, who plans to rent
out the building for special occasions after
Sporglt vacates.

Renovating the house, which was built in
1878, took some doing before it could be
home to eight work stations and a rustic
conference room. The building has been re-
furbished and rewired to accommodate the
13 or so tech employees, serving as the R&D
lab for Sporglt. Another seven employees
work from offices at another location.

“You should’ ve seen these floors,”’ chuck-
led Beedon as he gave a tour of the DKE
house. “There were about four or five layers
of beer soaked in the wood.”

But the jokes stop when Beedon talks about

the possibilities of his new company. He’s :
already raised $3 million in seed money, ©

mostly through Michigan friends and as-
sorted family investors. Beedon said deals
are in the works to gain another $15 million
in venture capital.”

Sporglt, which stands for “speech, orga-;
nize it,” is a voice-automated service geared,
. toward the mobile professional. Beedon took

his experience as a sales rep with IBM for the
Sporglt model. The road-weary sales person

usually doesn’t want to cap a busy day by
sitting in front of a laptop to update accounts,
Beedon said.

“T know all the excuses, because I used to
give them,” he said. “They all say the same
things: ‘Do you'want me to talk to customers
or do you want me to update these files?”

Using cell or land phones with the Sporglt
program, sales workers can access and tweak
their schedules, update accounts and find out
information on.clients. In a computer-gener-

ated demonstration, the Sporglt voice system

can read the common language of the caller,
without any technical jargon or specialized
grammar.

The system also uses. caller identification,
voice recognition and passwords to ensure
security, Beedon said.

Beedon hopes to have a completed version
of the software by October. Although the
company is still in its infancy and without any
customers, Beedon said heavy hitters _ in-
cluding IBM _ are interested.

“T really think it’s a revolutionary product,
not an evolutionary product,” he said.
