Si ALENDA LU

DaviIpSON COLLEGE

AY

Sa

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 9

Davidson students host local
trick-or-treaters in residence halls

By CuristINA COOKE
Staff Writer

Witches, fairies, pirates, and princesses
were among those who roamed campus on
Thursday, October 26. But the witches were
not after the fairies, and the pirates were not
after the princesses. Instead, all were after
full bags of candy.

The evening began around 5:30 p.m., when
children poured from the Ada Jenkins Center
buses to the area outside of KA. “Last year,
some of the Ada kids didn’t get the chance to
trick-or-treat, so we decided we’d give them
the chance,” explained Seth Davis ‘02, coor-
dinator of the Ada trick-or-treating project.

In the weeks preceding the big event, sev-
eral halls raised money to outfit the Ada
children with costumes of their own choos-
ing. Inthe new costumes, the children circled
from house to house on Patterson Court,
meeting students and candy bars at each stop.

“The people on Patterson Court really came
through and were there,” commends Davis.
“They were very gracious.”

Around 7 o'clock that evening, the campus

prepared for another wave of trick-or-treat- _

ers. Families of the faculty, staff, and com-
munity gathered on the lawn outside Belk to
hear stories told by Officer Lynch, Assistant
Director of Public Safety, and to consume
cookies, cupcakes, and drinks before heading
for the dorms.

Twenty-six halls, both up and down the
hill, opened their doors and the set out their

INDEX
1 News
4 Around Davidson
5 Politics
& Perspectives
8 Sports

Erin Berry

candy bowls for the children. RLO coordina-
tor Erin Domagalski estimates that 100 chil-
dren and their families, if not more, tricked
and treated through the buildings. __,

Some students decorated their halls with
spider webs, streamers, and pumpkins, and
others dressed themselves in costumes to
welcome the trick-or-treaters. “A lot of people
would leave their doors open and would talk
with the kids and the parents as they came
by,” recounts Rebecca Moore °03.

The mother of an Indian appreciated the
communication too, saying “It’s fun to see
the interaction between the students and the
kids.”

Children approached the process of candy
gathering with difierent tactics. Some kneeled
before each container of candy, carefully
choosing the flavor that would’ most please
their palates. A Revolutionary War soldier
expressed his concern for the variety of fla-
vors available in the bow], inquiring, “Do you

see Boo, page 4

Chuaiters bell sets nostalgic tone

By SusAn Rosison
Staff Writer

W

Time passes as quickly as the falling leaves
at Davidson, and few yield time to notice. But
like a poet whose voice will not be forgotten,
the Chambers bell beckons us to listen to the
past. More than just a call to go to class, this
bell remains a piece of our history, a cast-iron
symbol that will not crumble away under our
feet.

It reminded us of its presence after fall
break, when it suddenly started to ring again.
Freshmen on campus were startled at this
foreign sound, while upperclassmen quickly
identified their old friend.

“It scared me the first time I heard it,” said
Jonathan Schellack ‘04, speaking for many of
his classmates.

Yet those who have been here longer have
a more founded understanding of what this
place should mean to them, guarding the bell
closer to their hearts.

“It reminds you of Davidson every time
you hear it,” said Randy Skattum ’01.

“It gives the school a nostalgic feel,” said
David Johnston ’01.

Not forgetting it’s practicality, Christiane
Buuck ‘01 pointed out that “it mes profes-
sors honest.”

The story of the bell carries more time than
the bell itself, and although the sound we hear
today hasn’t resounded over the whole cen-
tury, it embodies the tradition of yesteryear.
The original bell was installed in 1858 with
the construction of the first Chambers build-
ing, and when it burned to the ground on
November 18, 1921, the bell crashed from its
noble height. Pieces of the reshaped bell rest
in Little Library, waiting to be séen.

After its demise, and before a replacement
was built, the school employed several cre-
ative means of herding students to class.
First, a steam whistle was used, and later, a
fire engine bell. Many students felt that these
methods didn’t capture the honor of the old
bell, and wanted a permanent replacement.

Campus comes alive for first-ever debates

By JT ToLeNntTINO
’ News Editor

It was, to say the very least, an historic
night.

Last Wednesday, October 25, the Young
Democrats and the College Republics held
the first political debate in the college’s his-
tory.

For nearly an hour, the party representa-
tives discussed the major issues of this year’s
election according to the campaign platforms
of the respective candidates.

The debate was held between historic
Eumenean and Philanthropic Halls - more
commonly regarded as “Eu” and “Phi” Halls.
In the tradition of the. Eumenean Debate
Society of decades past, the participants were
located on the balconies of the two lecture
halls—The Young Democrats on Phi Hall and
the College Republicans on Eu Hall.

Unlike in times past, microphones. were
used during the debate to prevent the contest
from degenerating into a shouting match.

President Bobby a moderated the de-
bate.

Seven major issues of the 2000 presidential
campaign were discussed: education policy,
healthcare policy, judicial appointment, bud-
get surplus, environmental policy, social se-
curity and Medicare, and military policy.

For each policy issue, arepresentative each
party presented and defendéd their respective
candidate’s side.

Each side was allotted five minutes to
present the candidate’s position on the issue,
followed by the rebuttals from both sides.

The opening statements were prepared be-
forehand, while all rebuttals were on-the-
spot responses, requiring a keen understand-
ing of each candidate’s stance.

The debate focused primarily on policy
initiatives Al Gore and George W. Bush
would pursue as president. Each side aimed
at showing a definitive divide between the
two candidates.
| One of the most controversial issues, for
example, was judicial appointments.

Dan Carman ‘01, speaking for the College ~

Republicans, noted Bush’s stance on choos-

see Debate, page 2

Susan Robison
Students have grown fond of

Chambers bell as it cuts their
professors’ lectures short.

So on September 14, 1922, the Honorable
F. Brevard McDowell of the class of 1869
presented the gift of a new bell to the school
as a memorial to alumni dead in the World
War I. The inscription reads: “In memory of
our soldier dead, “To you from falling hands
we throw the torch;-Be yours to hold it high.”

The bell’s ring is made possible by a series
of intricate steps created by the International
Time Recording Company (now IBM) in
1922 when the new Chambers was built. The
official time is kept by a master clock found
on the building’s first floor. This pendulum,
weight-driven clock sends out a signal every
minute to subsidiary “slave clocks” that keep
time for the school.

The master clock also sends a signal to a
programmed switchboard that relays a mes-
sage to the bell causing it to ring at timed
intervals. The bell then rings for a full minute
at the beginning and end of each class — in
theory. Sometimes the bell goes for months
without making a sound.

“It’s just getting old and it’s hard to keep it
ringing,” said caretaker Jimmy Freeze of the
Physical Plant.

The bell didn’t echo off the red brick build-
ings of-campus for the first part of this semes-
ter as it was eagerly anticipating repair parts
from Germany. But here we find the excite-
ment of the venerable Chambers bell.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

- SGA._subcommittees

The SGA Senate is responsible for a consider-

able amount of action on campus. As a fairly large
body, however, it delegates much of its responsibil-

ity.
NEws page 2

Zogby Poll - Saved by the Bell

Your beloved pollsters took the presidential

campaign to Bayside High. Find out which teen icon
would end up in the White House.

‘NEws page 3

_Who’s best for you?

A comparison of the main presidential candi-
dates on several key issues. Match your views with
those of Nader, Gore, Bush, or Buchanan.

Potrtics page 5

Sexist language
Students sound off on use of demeaning tetms.

PERSPECTIVES page 7

