The (Other) Zoaby Poll: what makes a candidate pre

By Joy Gerpy AND Matr ZoGcBy

Sraff Writers

The (Other) Zogby Poll returns this week.

with the question, “Which of these key issues
do you feel will be most influential in the
upcoming election?

1. Former position of candidate’s father in
government.

2. Candidate’s hairstyle.

3. Candidate’ s favorite television program.

4. Candidate’s arm-wrestling prowess.

5.Degree to which candidate’s running
mate resembles Bobby Vagt.

6. Closeness of relationship to Kevin Ba-
con

7. NBC6’s Viewer’s Bill of Rights

Through extensive research, our team de-
cided that these seven issues were most vital
We only

to the average American’s life.
received one criticism of the
selected issues from one
Fraheen Counts**, However,
we disagree, and now Sha-, er,
uh, Fraheen’s opinion no
longer matters. Of course, we
do appreciate his input.

The first choice, relating to
the position held by each
candidate’s father, is almost a
real issue. We find it interest-
ing that both of the large party
candidates come from political lineages,
somewhat like royalty, giving us a less than
diverse choice for this year’s election. The
preceding sentence is about as close as we
will come to making a political statement in
the following article. The first choice re-
ceived no votes.

Choice two, candidate’s hairstyle, elicited
a diverse array of responses. Khoury Ashooh
said Gore’ s hair was “‘weird-looking.” Chris-
topher Brantley disagreed, saying, ‘““Gore’s
[hair] looks like a weapon.” We can only

assume this was meant asa positive statement
about the dual-nature and practical uses of
Gore’s hairstyle. (Might it also be an expres-

sion of Gore’s stance on the controversial |
_gun-control issue... OH NO! We just men-

tioned areal issue) Becca Smith, of Wesleyan
University, told us over IM that Bush’s hair is
“too Texas dusty for me.” Our team of
translators is still working to interpret this
phrase, but regardless, it appears that some
voters have been turned off by both
candidate’s hairstyles. This choice received
21% of the vote.

Although the third choice,
candidate’s favorite television
program, did not receive much
support from the campus at
large, the candidates them-
selves have taken strong stances
on the issue. Gore, on his fa-
vorite show Sur-
vivor, once said,
“Colleen is f—
king hot.” Bush,
on the other
hand, feels the

runs of Coach: “Remember
the episode where Dauber lost
the playbook? That was great.” This choice
only received 3% of the vote.

The fourth choice, arm-wrestling prowess,
was chosen during last week’s debate, when
a friend asked himself that age-old question:
“I wonder who would win in an arm-wres-
tling competition.” We at the (Other) Zogby
Poll think that the aforementioned is an es-
sential question that must be asked when
making any informed decision. The campus,
however, disagreed. This choice received
0% of the votes.

current selection of television
shows is below par and pre-
fers to reminisce on the good
ol’ days while watching re-

"During tl the vice-presidential debates it be-
came increasingly clear that our esteemed
leader, Dr. Bobby Vagt, bore a striking re-
semblance to both Lieberman and Cheney.
Hence, the fifth choice in this week’s poll,
degree to which candidate’s running mate
resembles Bobby Vagt. This choice swept
the poll with an astounding 34% of the votes.
It is left unclear whether this choice would
have the same popularity outside the David-
son bubble.

The choice our team is most proud of
would have to be the sixth choice, closeness
of relationship to Kevin Ba-
con, because it let us play Six
Degrees of Kevin Bacon with
presidential candidates. Here
are the connections we used:

Gore had Tommy Lee Jones
as a roommate in college.
Tommy Lee Jones was:on an
episode of
Charlie’s Angels
with Farrah
Fawcett. Farrah
Fawcett pro-
vided a voice for the film odys-
sey The Brave Little Toaster
Goes to Mars with Wayne
Knight (a.k.a. Newman from
Seinfeld). Wayne Knight was
featured on 3rd Rock from the -
Sun with John Lithgow. John Lithgow was in
Footloose with Kevin Bacon! Yeah, we did
it!

Bush on the other hand just really likes
Footloose. Yes, we know that Tommy Lee
Jones and Kevin Bacon were in a movie
together, and we do not need all the other
connections between Gore and Mr. Bacon,
but if we used that movie, then we would not
get to use The Brave Little Toaster Goes to
Mars or Wayne Knight, for that matter. We
hope you see our point. This choice received

28% of the vote.
The final choice was the Viewer’s. Bill of
Rights. The NBC affiliate in Charlotte, NBC6, —
makes it clear that we as viewers are entitled
to certain inalienable rights, especially the
one that says that there should be an equal
number of sad and happy stories, so it seems
perfectly reasonable that the presidential can-
didates take a stand on such an important
issue. Unfortunately, Davidson disagreed.
The only vote for this came from one of your
esteemed pollsters. e

As per usual, there were a few votes that
fell into the ubiquitous “Other” category.
Again, Matt’s.father received votes in the
form of “closeness of relationship to Matt’s
dad.” This choice received 7% of the total
votes. One respondent’s obsession with
Matt’s father has moved beyond the point of
mere admiration to what we at the (Other)
Zogby Poll like to call, “crazed fixation.” _

We also are beginning to
think that Anna Padgett does
not understand our questions..
This week, her vote went to
“whether eleventy billion is re-
ally a number.” While cer-
tainly an issue of importance to
mathematicians the world over,
this choice seems out of place
in a poll about the presidential
election.

In conclusion, it seems that in this election
Davidson students are most concerned with
Bobby Vagt and his connection to Kevin
Bacon, whichis as follows: Bobby Vagtis the
president of Matt Zogby’s college. Matt
Zogby wentto his sister’s wedding and danced
with Sarah Jessica Parker. Sarah Jessica
Parker was in Footloose with Kevin Bacon.
There ya have it. Easy as pie.

** Name has been changed to protect
respondent’s anonymity.

College adds processing fee to cost of non-Davidson study abroad -

By AMBER PARKE
Staff Writer

Anyone interested in studying abroad this
year might take another look at those fig-
ures—no, not the fabulous Italian physiques—
the extra $350 that is being. tacked onto the
regular cost of going abroad with a non-
Davidson program.

In order to offset the cost of the increasing
number of Davidson students signing up to
go abroad with non-Davidson programs, the
administration instituted a processing fee this
year. The proceeds from this fee go towards
the costs of processing applications, financial
aid, housing, course credits, etc. President
Bobby Vagt and Vice President of Academic

Affairs Clark Ross instituted this non-re-
fundable administrative fee of $350 for stu-
dents participating in non-Davidson study
abroad programs on the recommendation of
the International Education Committee.

“Davidson bends.over backwards to make
it possible for its students to study abroad,”
said Carolyn Ortmayer, the Coordinator of
Study Abroad programs.

While Davidson just began charging stu-
dents a processing fee this year, many univer-
sities have been doing so for quite some time.

Philip Wainwright, Director of Interna-
tional Studies at Emory University said, “If
the student goes on a non-Emory program, he
or she is assessed an $800 processing fee to
cover the costs to Emory of maintaining a

study abroad office and supporting the
student’s experience.”

Emory’s fee includes maintaining a library,
holding information sessions, maintaining a
knowledgeable advising staff, student sup-
port and processing transfer credit.

How do students feel about this extra
charge? Alex Calhoun ’02 has applied to
several non-Davidson programs in England
for the spring semester and is not happy with
this additional feel.

“Tf there is not a Davidson program avail-
able for the student’s desired destination or
area of interest, students have no other alter-
native than to go through a non-Davidson

‘ program,” he said.

Ortmayer added, “In addition toa process-

Belk,

from page 1

commitment to the college by Belk to expand
the scholarship to include more award recipi-
ents by 2004. The announcement was made
the Friday, October 6, when most Davidson
students had departed for fall break.

“If we have outstanding students at David-
son, it will continue to be the great school it
is,” said Belk.

Officials say the contribution will make the
John Montgomery Belk Scholarship compa-
rable to other prestigious awards, such as the
Morehead Scholarship at UNC Chapel Hill

and the Duke Scholars Program at Duke .

University.

According to Dr. Nancy Cable, Dean of
Admissions and Financial Aid, the program
‘will support a total of 40 students — 10 stu-
dents from each graduation class.
_ The award-will cover tuition, room and
board, and any fees, which currently is valued

at $29,600 annually. In addition, the program
will provide grants for two summer intern-
ships and international study.

Recruitment for the scholarship program
will begin in Spring 2002 for 10 students who
would arrive in 2004. Recipients can only be
incoming freshman. —

The selection process has two stages. First,
100 semifinalists will be selected — 50 com-
ing from the top50 applicants and the remain-
ing from nominations from high school coun-
selors. Of the 100 semifinalists, 40 will be
chosen as finalists, and interviewed for the
selection of the final 10 that will receive the
award. —

Cable added that a qualified student “must
have proven leadership.” —

She believes that the program will be com-
petitive with other liberal arts colleges such
as Bowden or Pomona and will attract “the
very finest” out of the applicant pool.

Currently, Davidson has eight John Mont-
gomery Belk Scholars, one in the class of

2001, two in the class of 2002, one in the class
of 2003, and four in the class of 2004.

The Belk Scholarship was established in
1994, with its first recipient, Jonathan Sipling,
graduating in 1999.

Sipling,; an economics major who com-
pleted an honors thesis, narrowed down his
choice between Duke and Davidson when he
was choosing schools,

Silping chose Davidson because he had

“the opportunity to have a truly interactive -

experience with many of his professors.”

“T feel an overwhelming sense of gratitude
[to the Belk Scholarship],” he said.

Crutchfield noted that Belk’s contribution
is another reflection of his undying commit-
ment to the region.

“You can’t drive far in the southeast with-
out finding a church, a fountain, or an aca-
demic facility that has been touched by Belk,”
he said. “Such public service has been a

family tradition and has been for many de-

cades.”

t

ing fee ranging anywhere from $150 to $5000,
most colleges also charge their own compre-
hensive fee for study abroad programs which
are not their own, pay the program, and keep
the extra money if the program costs less than
the fee that was initially charged by the home
college or university.”

Phone,

from page 1

assumed. that they would be offered the ad-
vertised rate for the new system.

“Tt said 10 (cents) on the pamphlet, so I just
took it for granted; apparently that’s not the
case” says Rob.Neuman ‘04.

Marcia Makl, director of networks and’
systems, said a letter from AT&T should
have explained the problem.

“We focused on the letters from AT&T to
all students to be the primary source of infor-
mation and explanation of services,” she said.
“Tn the fall letter it explicitly noted the differ-
ent service plans [10 cent or 15 cent plan] and
states to go to www.acus.com to sign up.”
_ ITS officials are in the process of inform-
ing students how to get the lower rate.

Mak] expressed regret about the delay in
spreading the information.

“We realized a few weeks back that the
message wasn’t getting through and that is
why we had AT&T ACUS send us the list of
students and their sign up so we could do the
e-mail message notification. We apologize
that we did not have an opportunity to be
more proactive on this notification (prior to
the first billing), but we have been a bit
overwhelmed with all the additional loca-
tions, moves; and problems with the new
phone system,” she said.
