THe DavIpsONIAN

By BetH GARDNER
Guest Writer

Imagine sprinting through the woods for
two hours, stumbling up hills, and through
streams, while briars claw at your calves and
the quarter-sized blisters on your heels be-
come more than a little bit painful.

It may sound like a scene from The Blair
Witch Project, but in reality it’s just another
weekend in the life of Monica Siegenthaler, a
Davidson freshman who competes regularly
in the international sport of orienteering.

Orienteering, which is somewhat ob-
scure in the United States but fairly popular in
Europe and Canada, involves running through
the woods with only acompass and a detailed
map. Competitors must find several different
points, called controls, placed throughout the
woods before returning to the starting point.

Successful

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

The Young Democrats topped off their
publicity week last Thursday with a discus-
sion of the presidential candidates and their
issues. The informal event was sponsored by
both the Democrats and the College Republi-
cans.

Participants squared off in the Morrison
Room of the Union to debate specific politi-
cal topics as well as the relative merits of
Governor George W. Bush and Vice Presi-
dent Al Gore. Health care reform and educa-
tion prompted much discussion, as did cer-
tain “character” questions concerning both
candidates. However, attendees were just as
eager to debate their political stances. Both
sides wrestled with the definitions of political
conservatism and liberalism, as they related
not only to issues but also to the two parties.
This forum was the culmination of the self-

| NEws
Student wins Intercollegiate Orienteering Championships

Meets typically consist of two days of run-
ning — the times from both days are then
combined and the competitor who finds all of
the controls in the least amount of time wins.

Two weekends ago, Siegenthaler com-
peted in the US Intercollegiate Orienteering
Championships. After finishing second in
Saturday’s competition with orienteerers from
schools such as West Point, Georgetown,
Naval Academy, and Harvard, she rallied
against sore muscles and blisters to finish
first on Sunday with a time fast enough to
crown her the Women’s College Varsity
Champion, the equivalent of the NCAA cham-
pionship in her sport.

Siegenthaler, who is also a member of
Davidson Crew, is now trying to decide
whether to continue rowing next spring or to
train on her own for the Orienteering Na-
tional Championships.

proclaimed Young Democrats Week at David-
son. President and co-founder Maggie
Kozicharow emphasized that the organiza-
tion is still trying to make its presence known
on campus. “We decided it was time to
become more active and to raise issues,” she
noted.

Beginning Monday, April 10th, the
Democrats manned a booth in Chambers
with literature regarding different igsues of
concern to their organization. Members of
five different issue committees were on hand
to provide information between Monday and
Thursday. The five different themes were
gun control, health care, women’s issues, the
environment, and education.

Kozicharow explained the role these is-
sue committees have played in their organi-
zation. Eachis chaired by a different member
and is responsible for meeting on its own to
research and to discuss its particular area of
interest. In addition to providing information

Pre

ns
-

~*

Monica Siegenthaler.

forum concludes Democrat Week

to the campus at large, this division of labor,
admitted Kozicharow, helps keep members
informed on issues outside of their expertise.

The discussion period on Thursday night
reflected the efforts of both Democrats and
Republicans on campus. Once the Demo-
crats had decided to make a concentrated
effort to publicize their group, they contacted
the Republicans in hopes of organizing a
debate of some sort. Kozicharow said that
her initial contacts with the College Republi-
cans were very positive and that her counter-
parts seemed eager to participate.

Commenting on the week, Kozicharow
expressed her pleasure at the response from
students, especially on Thursday night. “I
think we were pretty successful,” she con-
cluded. In particular, they had hoped to
initiate some sort of open and critical dia-
logue with the Republicans on campus, which
she felt that they had accomplished for the
most part.

Tuurspay, Apri 20, 2000 nae

Correction: The recent
Confederate Flag forum was
sponsored by the Union Board’s
Campus Forums committee rather
than the Student Government
Association.

Kozicharow gave a few indications of.
the immediate future of the Young Demo-
crats at Davidson. Though she doubted that
there would be another informal discussion
with their rivals, she mentioned the possibil-
ity of bringing in a speaker. Gayle Mahood,
former president of the Young Democrats of
Charlotte/Mecklenburg County, may speak
on campus this semester, or if not, then cer-
tainly next semester. Beyond that, the presi-
dent suggested that the group will continue to
make its voice heard and will try to muster
support for candidate Gore.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
UNION

PRESENTS AN EVENING WITH

Bide

y Jars

]

Tuesday, April 25, 2000
7:30 p.m.
Love Auditorium

Student tickets:
$5 in advance / $7 at the door
General Public tickets:
$12 in advance / $15 at the door

> Call the Union Ticket Office at 892-2135
tid between 1:30 and 5:30 weekdays.

or Clay

