he

@ ALENDA LU

[a ET
DAvIDSON COLLEGE

0

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 7

Belk expands
scholars program

By JT ToLentino
News Editor

John Montgomery Belk doesn’t want stu-
dents to have to go through the same hard-
ships he was faced with as he completed his
Davidson education 50 years ago.

That’s why the Charlottean and member of
the class of 1943 gave $28 million to expand
the Belk Scholarship into one of the nation’s
biggest scholarship programs.

“Since I had a hard time getting though
Davidson, I thought I would like to make it
easier for other students,” he said.

Since 1994, Belk has given students who
excel in both leadership and academics an
opportunity to attend Davidson through the
John Montgomery Belk Scholarship.

Until recently, only a few students out of
each graduating class have received the award.

However, Edward Crutchfield, chair of the
Board of Trustees and CEO of First Union
National Bank, Inc, announced a $28-million

see Belk, page 5.

INSIDE

Arts & Living
Kid A exceeds expectations
page 8

Dancer in the Dark shines
page 9

New exhibition at the VAC

RU-486 or not?
page 11

Students square off over
sexist language
page 12

Respect the bikes!!!
page 11

Davidson begins historic capital campaign

Increases in endowment

will transform financial

aid, give students new
opportunities

By Aaron Houck AND RICHARD VINSON
Editors-in-chief

While students scattered for fall break, the
trustees and alumni converged on Davidson
for the presentation of an historic gift.

On October 6, the college announced a
contribution of $28 million from the Honor-
able John Montgomery Belk ’43. This gift
will expand the Belk Scholars program to ten
full scholarships a year.

Belk’s pledge also marks the beginning of
a massive capital campaign. Mr. Edward
Crutchfield, chairman of the Board of Trust-
ees, announced the Board’s approval of a
$250 million drive intended to increase stu-
dent financial assistance, to improve faculty
support, and to renovate existing academic
facilities, among others things.

Financial Aid

Nearly $100 million of the proposed drive
will be used to increase the amount of finan-
cial aid available to students and to endow
some existing aid that currently comes out of
Davidson’s operating expenses.

“Compared to other colleges, more of our
financial aid comes out of our operating bud-
get,” commented President Bobby Vagt.
Associate Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid Kathleen Stevenson-McNeely also com-
mented on the importance of increasing the
portion of endowed financial aid. “[David-
son] is under-endowed compared to peer
institutions. We compete against them for
students,” Stevenson-McNeely attested.

At present, Davidson’ s endowment per stu-
dent is. around $170,000. This does not

Students perplexed

by new phone rates

By SusAn RoBIson
Staff Writer.

The coming of a new month-heralds the
arrival of more bills, and many students are
feeling cheated by what they find in their
mailbox.

Some students using the AT&T campus
phone service are still being charged 15 cents

per minute when the new advertised was 10

cents per minute.

That’s because in order to receive the lower
rate, students must register for an online
billing service.

Frustration with the new phone service
appears to be far-reaching. ITS workers are
struggling to address the situation by inform-
ing students of the contract’s intricacies.

Students who want the lower rate need to
register themselves for the electronic billing
service over the Internet by visiting
www.acus.com or calling AT&T at 1-800-
445-6063. The electronic billing will enable
them to receive the advertised 10-cent rate.

Some students are confused by the system.
Annette Welty ‘04, for example, thought she

compare favorably to figures at institutions
with which Davidson competes. Grinnell,
Williams, and Washington and Lee, for ex-
ample, have per student endowments be-
tween $770,000 and $335,000.

One advantage of spending money out of
the endowment is that those funds are renew-
able. By contrast, once money from the
operating budget is spent, it must replaced.
Increasing the endowment frees funds from
operating expenses to go towards salaries,
technology services, and other upkeep costs.

Currently, gifts, grants, and endowments
cover only about a third of the cost of a
Davidson education, while tuition pays for

the rest. Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid Nancy Cable indicated that the college
wants to hold tuition as close to current levels
as possible. Hence, as the cost of education
increases, the endowment must increase pro-
portionally.

By increasing Davidson’s share of endowed
financial assistance, the college hopes to ac-
complish several goals. First, all involved in
this campaign recognize the importance of
maintaining a diverse student body i in the
future.

“T don’t want to imply that we don’t have
the best student body possible,” confessed

see Campaign, page 4

And the winner of the Dunk Contest is... |

Michel Lusakueno gives this young Wildcat fana a lift at Saturday’s Matinee
Madness. The men’s and women’s basketball teams hosted the Davidson

community and displayed their skills.

See article page 13.

registered for electronic billing, but is still
being charged the old 15-cent rate.

“] think it’s really confusing trying to sign
up for the Internet billing because I obviously
did it wrong,” she said. “I thought I signed up
for it, but-I’m still not exactly sure what’s
happening with my billing.” :

Even upon receiving the newer rate, many

‘students still aren’ t satisfied. The new method

of payment bills the debt directly to the
student’s credit card, bypassing verification
and approval. :

“TJ don’t like the electronic billing because
they just deduct from your account automati-
cally. If they deduct too-much, I’m sure it
would be difficult to get your money. back”
says Brian Borak ‘04.

Many, students think the current rates are
too steep, and are searching for other phone

services.

“No one is paying 15 cents a minute any-
more,” says Rick Bold ‘02.

Some students think that the problem lies
with ITS, not AT&T. They believe that ITS
didn’t do enough to inform the public of the
initiative needed to get the new rate, and that _
students should have had more access to the
information. 2

“It’s ridiculous. Nowhere on the ITS web
page does it say that you need to register for
online billing yourself. It’s deceitful. If you
don’t take it upon yourself to call ITS, you’ll
never know [how to get the new rate]” said

' Bold.

Some students didn’ teven know that AT&T
was charging them the older rate; they just

see Phone, page 5 |
