By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Saturday afternoon must have been a
bewildering experience for the Georgia South-
ern women’s hoopsters.

The Eagles ping into Belk Arena this

weekend

Davidso o expecting
Georgia rn 67 '0 face a
g 3-13 bas-
ketball

team. Instead, they met up with the Davidson
Wildcats.

Erupting with a 90-67 rout over Georgia
Southern, the Wildcats laid claim to a fresh
start in the second round of conference ac-
tion. ,

“That’s one of the best games I’ ve seen
a Davidson team play on this court,” head
coach John Filar said.

“Everything is starting toclick,” an elated
Janna Magette declared. “We’re finally tak-
ing off.”

Taking off, indeed. The Wildcats oblit-
erated Georgia Southern Saturday, avenging
an 85-78 conference-opener loss to the Eagles
back in December.

Saturday’s win was also the first time
ever that Georgia Southern lost at Davidson.

Among the keys on Saturday was the
revived play of senior Katy Kamp. The 6-1
forward delivered clearly the best effort of
her senior season, scoring 19 points on 9-of-
12 shooting while securing seven rebounds.

Kamp was among four starters in double-
digits, including Jen O’ Brien, Janna Magette,
and Meagan Gleason with 24, 14, and 10
points respectively. The fifth starter, sopho-
more Bethany Schott, led the team with nine
rebounds.

S Ww I

Davidson burst out of the gate to the tune.
ofa 16-7 lead. But Georgia Southern chipped
away at the Wildcat advantage, pulling within
four at half-time.

Surely cognizant of some recent leads
squandered, Davidson opened the second half
with a decisive spurt, outscoring the Eagles
21-6 in the half’s first ten minutes.

A whole new ballgame

During their 2-7 skid through the first
round of conference action, a number of
factors contributed to the Wildcat woes.

Shooting. Turnovers. Inconsistency in-
side. First-half collapses. Second-half col-
lapses.

On Saturday, the Wildcats had an anti-
dote for each of them.

Shooting: The Wildcats shot 56 percent
from the floor—only the second time this
season they broke 50 percent against a con-
ference opponent. Kamp led the way with a
spectacular 75 percentclip. Davidson was on
fire from behind the arc as well, sporting a 50
percent rate led by O’Brien’s 4-of-6.

Turnovers: In their Dec. 12 loss at
Statesboro, the Wildcats turned the ball over
37 times. Fully one-half of their 48 first-half
possessions resulted in giveaways. On Satur-
day, they cut that total in half and outscored
the Eagles 19-5 in points-off-turnovers.

Inside Play: In the first seven confer-
ence games, the Wildcat frontcourt was shoot-
ing acombined 40 percent. On Saturday, the
triple towers—Kamp, Taylor, and Jessica
Heath—combined for a phenomenal 68 per-
cent. Davidson scored 46 points in the paint,
while holding the Lady Eagles to only 24.
And the Wildcats’ 15 second-chance points
tripled Georgia Southern’s mark of five.

Collapses: Davidson set the tone with an

M M | N

G

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2000

/ / PB ‘ a é
WEEK

ney’re contenders

AHEAD

Fepruary 5, 2000 — CoLLEGE OF CHARLESTON COUGARS
@ Kress ARENA (CHARLESTON, S.C.)

Cougars’ Record (as of 2/1): 4-14 overall, 1-9 SoCon

What to watch for: Jen O’Brien is projected to surpass
Carolyn Kirsch for the all-time scoring crown at

Davidson.

Last Meeting: The Cougars held Davidson to just 35 percent shooting and upended

the Wildcats 67-54 on Jan. 4 at Belk Arena.

FEBRUARY 7, 2000 — WESTERN CAROLINA CATAMOUNTS

@ BeLK ARENA

Catamounts’ Record (as of 2/1): XXXXXX

What to watch for: The Catamounts’ roster boasts of
two of the league’s top-five scorers in Laura Echols

(15.6 ppg) and Willow Russell (15.3 ppg).

Last Meeting: The Wildcats routed the Lady
Catamounts 77-52 to earn their first Southern .
Conference victory of the season. Jen O’Brien led the Wildcat Express with 29

points, 13 boards, and 9 assists.

early-run in each half, capturing both frames
of a contest for only the second time all
season.

Looking ahead

Inspired by their recent string of success,
the Wildcats have high hopes for their final
few weeks. “Our overall record doesn’t mat-

& D I V

ter to us,” Magette said. “If it did, we would
have quit a long time ago.”

The Wildcats travel Saturday to the Col-
lege of Charleston, where Jen O’Brien will
likely become Davidson’s all-time scoring
leader, eclipsing Carolyn Kirsch’s total of
1370 points.

| N G

Swim teams gain momentum with 1 victory over Duke

By BuraGin Harbin
Sports Editor

The last time Davidson and Duke met, it
was on the basketball court and the outcome
wasn’t in the Wildcats’ favor.

This past weekend, Davidson Swimming
& Diving hosted the Blue Devils at Canon
Pool and it was a different story.

For the first time in school history, the
Wildcats’ women’s team defeated the Blue
Devils 125.5-115.5 in the second-to-last dual
meet of the season.

The men’s team also scored a victory,
recording their third consecutive win over the
Blue Devils by dominating them 144-70.

On Sunday, Davidson welcomed Vir-
ginia Tech to. Wildcat land for the final dual
meet of the season but both teams fell to the
Hokies.

The story of the weekend, however, was
the victories over the Blue Devils.

The men’s team won every event of the
afternoon and the women’s team turned in an
equally impressive performance.

“As ateam, this is the most balanced and
deepest women’s team we’ ve ever had,” said
head coach Rich DeSelm.

And that was no mystery last Saturday.

Davidson placed first in the women’s
400 yard medley relay with a time of 4:06.30.

The team of Rachel Horak, Britta
Toleman, Jennifer Howard and Elissa Weddle
finished two seconds ahead of the field. The
second-place Duke team turned in a time of
4:08.30.

Three Wildcats also won four different
individual events. Kendra Burner won the
women’s 200-yard freestyle event: Horak

finished first inthe women’ s 50-yard freestyle
swim. Mary Shell Brosche captured the

,
mee ay ene

women’s 200-yard indiviudual medley and
the'200-yard backstroke event.

Sophomore Liz Nugent scored victories
in the one- and three-meter diving events,
sweeping the afternoon’s women’s diving
competition.

“She is a graceful and talented athlete,”
DeSelm said of Nugent, who has qualified for
the NCAA Zone B Championships for the
second year in a row.

If Nugent does well in ZoneB, Boconting
to DeSelm, she could qualify for the NCAA
Championships.

The men’s team manhandled Duke, win-
ning all 12 events including the diving com-
petition. Mark Medendorp won the one men’s
diving event of the afternoon with a score of
127.20.

The weekend’s victories provided the
momentum and confidence that the men’s
and women’s teams will need as they head

‘into the Southern States Championhips Feb.

16-19.

“The motivation to prepare [for the South-

ern States Championships] is very powerful
coming off a win a like,” head coach Rich

MMV SWEVAVYVRETESTS!
DeSelm said.

“We're really well positioned going into
our championship meets,” senior Rob Saldin
said. “The whole weekend was a big confi-
dence booster. People stepped up and swam

like they hadn’t before.

“On an individual basis and on a team
level, there was a lot of confidence building.”

The Southern States Championship is
the meet that the Wildcats have been prepar-
ing for all season long and DeSelm feels very
confident about the teams’ performances.

“The women’s team will be in the title
race,” DeSelm said. “It’s been close with

* Louisville in the team title competition in the

past, and it could turn into a three-team race.
But I know we’ll be in the thick of it.”

In contrast, the men’s team will be the
underdogs at Southern States, even though
they have won three championships since
1995.

Last season, the men’s team lost the
championship for the first time in two years to
a surprise Western Illinois team. They are
eager to reclaim the Southern States crown.

I know how to swim. At least I thought I
did.
+ But the error of my ways—or aquatic
know-how rather—was ee to light by
Ti

Commentary: Speedos and my Ti-83

in little more than Speedos? Well, according
_ to my source and nifty media guide, 50—
_ regular _. count ‘em, 50—swimmers comprise the team

st heh ee ia bret » including

you took off and drove 30 miles south, you'd
be in a different state!
.So, who exactly braves the morning dew

