The Davidson Wildcats’ men’s basketball
squad played its only exhibition game of the
preseason on Monday evening, showing off a
youthful roster that displayed a mix of perim-
eter and post scoring in a 91-77 triumph over

the VASDA

USA Silver

team.

Sophomore

Chris Pearson
‘and = junior

Martin Ides led

the Wildcats with 19 points apiece, while
sophomore Wayne Bernard added 18 points
with four three-pointers and seven assists.
Pearson also grabbed a game-high 13 re-
bounds for a double-double.
Without a senior on the roster or the ser-
. vices of junior co-captains Emeka Erege and
Michael Bree, Davidson found itself behind
by a point after five-and-a-half minutes. But

n’s basketball opens pre-season e

fueled by a vicious dunk on a putback by
Pearson and two three-pointers by-sopho-
more Peter Anderer, the Cats went on an 18-
0 run over a 4:29 span. Davidson built the
lead to as
much as 25
points be-
fore settling
for a 56-37
lead at the
half.

After the
intermis-
sion, the
Wildcats
scored the
first eight
points,
capped by
another

Bavidson ‘SID
sophemere Wayne

Bernard takes the ball dunk by
to the basket in Pearson on
Monday’s exhibition. a

The powerpuff girls of Davidson soccer

By JENN HIGGINns
Staff Writer

“When danger looms for the Davidson
Women’s soccer team, the call goes out for
Bubbles, Blossom, and Buttercup—The
Powerpuff girls. Under the watchful eyeof
their captains Corrigan and Falconi, the girls
fly into action against a colorful gallery of
nefarious villains throughout the Southern
Conference—saving the day each Fall sea-
son.”

You might wonder who might these soccer
superheroes be? Maybe it is too much to call
them superheroes per se. So I will just refer
to them as the Powerpuff girls. I'll give youa
hint—they are each only in their second year
at Davidson. Each has their own power
which allows them to force their opponents
into submission. Each has been acknowl-
edged by the coaches of the Southern Confer-
ence to be of the best talent. Each claims their
hideout is located in Irwin Residence Hall or
among the women of Connor. Each has
scored at least one goal this season. Each girl
scored against Appalachian State in 1999.
And although they don’t wear costumes or

resemble actual cartoon characters, these girls «

possess qualities that make them true soccer
superheroes. At least here at Davidson.
Blossom: [power: aggressive] a feisty all-
around naturally gifted soccer player who
doesn’t back down despite a slight height
disadvantage. But note this is soccer, not
basketball. Blossom is recognized to be the

leader of the Powerpuff
girls, always receiving
the highest ‘honors for
her work. As a first-year
superhero, Blossom
was awarded All-South-

ern Conference recognition for her excellent
performance. She was named to the 2000
Preseason All-Conference team and was pre-
- dicted by the Charlotte Observer as the player
to “Keep Your Eye On” in the Southern
Conference. In 1999, Blossom was tied for
first on the team in scoring with six goals.
One of these goals was the product of a play
created by another Powerpuff girl, Bubbles,
during a matchup versus No.7 Duke. Bubbles
bolted down the field at lightning speed to
feed the ball to her sister, Blossom, who
pounded a shot past All-American Duke goal-
keeper Isis Dallis. For, the. 2000 season,
Blossom notched 30 shots and assisted on six
goals, both of which are third on the team.
One of her two goals this season was the
game-winner against Vermont, which helped
land her on the Harvard Invitational All-
Tournament team. Blossom was also awarded
second-team All-Conference honors.

Buttercup: [power: uses her head] -a tall

powerful defender/midfielder who moves the
ball up the field and frequently uses her head
in finding the back of the net. Buttercup, a
former All-State basketball player and re-

cruited by Davidson,
has become accus- tomed to
using her head and_ - long legs
for good not evil. She re-
ceived second team All-
Conference hon- - ors in
1999, while being ranked
fifth on the team in scoring

with five goals. Buttercup even took a hit for
the team, like any Powerpuff girl would,
during the ETSU game this season. After
going up for a header and colliding with
another girl’s head, she suffered a serious
nose injury that would require surgery. Thus
leaving the Powerpuff girls one short for the
2000 Tournament.

Bubbles: [power: unassuming threat] a for-
ward, resembling Blossom in stature, who
has dominated the record books and national
rankings this season as an unrelenting scorer.

Bubbles, despite being sec-
ond on the team in scor-
ing in 1999, has proven
this to be her year on the
charts. She has been na-
tionally ranked in the top

20 among Division I leaders all season in two
categories: points per game and goals per
game. Her powerful Powerpuff shots have
made her fourth in the country in points per
game and ninth in goals per game. For indi-
vidual statistics in the Southern Conference,
Bubbles ranks second in shots (68), shots per
game, points (48), points per game, and as-
sists (10). She is first in goals per game (1.06)
and in game-winning goals (6). Along with
these rankings, Bubbles has set records in
2000 as well. In the Southern Conference,
she has set the season record for shots in one
game (10 vs. Vermont) and assists in one
game (3 vs. UNCA). In the Davidson record

books, Bubbles’ 19 goals and 10 assists equal-.

ing 48 points are single-season records. After
two years at Davidson, Bubbles already has
66 points, fifth all-time in the Davidson record
books. She has been the only Wildcat recog-
nized as a SoCon player of the week (10/16/
2000) and to also receive first team All-
Conference honors this season.

Do you think you know the Powerpuff
girls?

Be one of the first five people to ental me
[jehiggins @ davidson.edu] and win a free
cookie and a yellow Starburst.

Members of the Davidson Women’s Soc-
cer team and residents of Irwin are ineli-
gible for the prize.

Davidson hit half of its
three-point attempts (9-
for-18) and outrebounded
VASDA by a 56-41 mar-
gin. The Wildcat defense
held VASDA to just 33.3
percent shooting from the
floor, and just 25.0 percent
(5-for-20) from behind the
arc.

Eight players for the
Wildcats played at least 18
minutes, including
Anderer and Pearson, both. &
of whom averaged less
than eight minutes per
game between them a year
ago. Anderer was perfect
from the field in four at-
tempts, including all three

Center Martin Ides
reckons to be a force in ©
the SoCon this year.

breakaway.
VASDA le-double
pulled within for-13 shooting from the field.
16. points Seven of his 13 rebounds came
with an 11-2 on the offensive glass.
spurt, seven “Twas very happy with the way
of those we shot the ball from the perim-
. points com- eter, and how we got the ball into
ing from our post players,” said Head
Ajamu Coach Bob McKillop after the
Gaines. The game. “Chris Pearson and Martin
closest Ides did a terrific job down low,
VASDA and Wayne Bernard did a great
would-come, job leading the team on the floor.”
however, For VASDA, Rob Pisanelli led
was 12 the team with 18 points in 21
points, but it ' minutes, while Gaines and Der-
never rick Stroud each added 14. Like
mounted a Pearson, Stroud had a double-
serious ' double, hauling in 10 boards.
comeback. Chris Pearson had 19 Davidian SID . Davidson will open its season
or the and 13 rebounds. in Alaska next week in the Top of
game, the World Classic, hosted by

the University of Alaska-
Fairbanks. The Wildcats will
play South Florida in the open-
ing round on Friday, Nov. 17 at
11:00 p.m. (EST). On the fol-
lowing day, Davidson will play
either Santa Clara or Utah State,
a 2000 NCAA Tournament
participant.

The first home game for the
Cats will be on Nov. 28 against
Pennsylvania at 7:30 p.m.

avitison SID

John Kilgo joins Davidson radio family

Press RELEASE

The Davidson Radio Network moves into
a new era with the hiring of John Kilgo as its
play-by-play announcer for the 2000-01 bas-
ketball season. Kilgo is known throughout
the Carolinas for his past work as the execu-
tive producer and host of North Carolina
football and basketball television coaches’
shows, as well as radio call-in shows with
Dean Smith and Bill Guthridge.

After graduating from UNC Chapel Hill in
1957 with a degree in Journalism, Kilgo was
a columnist for The Charlotte
News for 10 years prior to
becoming Davidson’s first
full-time sports information
director in 1966.

“T am thrilled to renew my
association with Davidson
College,” said Kilgo. “I ad-
mire and respect everything
about Davidson and always
have. I’m delighted to be work-
ing with Coach Bob McKillop,
whom I hold in the highest
esteem. In this era of billion-
dollar television contracts for
college sports, and huge stadi- 1
ums and arenas that are steeply mortgaged,
my faith in the system is renewed when I
study the way Davidson does it.”

Kilgo’s service in radio is well-documented.
The news and sports director for WAYS
Radio for 18 years, he did play-by-play of
UNC Charlotte games from 1976-82, includ-
ing the 49ers’ NIT finals game in 1976 and
their NCAA Tournament run to the Final

- Four in 1977. Kilgo also did play-by play for
the professional football team in Charlotte”

for three years, as well as Davidson’s football

- game in the Tangerine Bowl in 1969.

For 17 years, Kilgo worked with Jefferson-
Pilot Communications. It was with J-P that he
was the executive producer and host of UNC
football and basketball television coaches’
shows for 13 years. Kilgo was also the host of
radio call-in shows with former North Caro-
lina basketball head coaches Dean Smith and
Bill Guthridge for 17 and three years, respec-
tively.

Kilgo is also an accomplished writer, hav-
ing co-authored the best-selling memoirs of
Dean Smith, “A Coach’s Life.” He also wrote
“Season of Dreams,” the story of North

Carolina’s 1993 national
.championship season in bas-
ketball.

“I am thrilled to have
someone of Kilgo’s caliber
on our team,” said
McKillop. “His profession-
alism and commitment to
excellence is well docu-
mented and well respected
throughout the country and
the basketball community.”

Kilgo will be joined court
side by Brad Childress, a
former Campbell basketball
standout. Childress is in his

fourth year as the color commentator of
Davidson basketball, and brings insightful
and in depth analysis about the team and
games.

All of Davidson’s games can be heard on ~
one of the following — WAGI, 105.3 FM out
of Gaffney, S.C., WMIX, 106.1 FM out of —
Waxhaw, N.C., or WHIP, 1350 AM out of
Mooresville, N.C. In addition, the broadcasts
can be live heard -via TEAMLINE at (800)
846-4700, ext. 1143, and live on the internet
at either www.BroadcastAmerica.com or
www.davidson.edu.

‘
