By Jenn Hicains
Staff Writer

Off to the best start in team history, the

Davidson Women’s Soccer team (6-1) was
prepared to vanquish the Dukes of Duquesne
(1-5) in preparation for their approaching
conference matchups. Although a non-con-
ference game, this Friday night doubleheader
with the men’s
team set the
stage for excit-
3 ing soccer ac-
1 tion. Not only
were the stands
filled with 517
enthusiastic
fans, but the Davidson women were gaining
attention in an even larger national arena.

Just a few days prior, the National Soccer
Coaches Association of America (NSCAA)
ranked the Wildcats number 10 in the South-
eastregion. This impressive list of the week’s
best teams in Division I included national
powerhouse UNC-Chapel Hill (#1) as wellas
Southern Conference rival Furman (#6). The
NSCAA ranking was the first for the Wild-
cats since the 1993 season.

Being prepared for a competitive Duquesne
team was crucial for the Wildcats consider-
ing their previous encounter ended in a 0-0
draw. This did not discourage the Davidson
women, who came out shooting. The Wild-

By Anpy LANOHA
Staff Writer

Following a tough 4-0 loss to the North
Carolina Tar Heels earlier in the week, the
Davidson men’s soccer team responded vig-
orously in their home opener last Friday
night, destroying
the Virginia Tech
Hokies 5-1.

Last Tuesday’s
match in Chapel
Hill looked to be
a clash of early
; season titans.
Davidson came into the match unbeaten fol-
lowing an emotional 3-2 overtime defeat of
the Charlotte 49ers. The Tarheels were also
unbeaten and had just knocked off the No. 4
ranked Clemson Tigers.

Davidson opened the match flying high
looking like they might bring down yet an-
other North Carolina rival. .

Things changed quickly, however, at the
_ 13:51 mark when

North Carolina’s

Chris Carrieri

opened the scor-

ing for the

Tarheels. Re-
- ceiving a pass

: from Caleb
Norkus, Carrieri ripped the ball over the
outstretched hand of Davidson keeper Soren
Johnson and tallied his third game-winner of
the still young season. ae

From this point out, Davidson found them-
selves chasing a fired-up and goal hungry
UNC team.

Freshman Grant Porter waded to the lead in
the 30" minute, finding the upper corner on

cats did-an excellent job of penetrating the
Dukes’ defensive third, getting off a total of

- 18 shots in the game, and. outshooting the ©

Dukes 12 to 1 in the first half alone. With all
of this shooting, it wasnit long before the
Wildcats netted their first goal.

, In the 12" minute, the Wildcats’ leading
scorer, Heather Maloney ‘03 went down the
wing unassisted to rip a shot past Duquesne
goalkeeper Michelle Guna and get the ‘Cats
on the scoreboard early. The rest of the first
half was filled with intense play as several
other Wildcats attempted to get the another
goal. Leigh Anne Hoskins ‘04 took almost as
many shots as the entire Duquesne team with
6.

In an answer to Duquesne’s only goal of the
night in the 71“ minute off a corner kick, the
Maloneys proved the saying, “Anything you
can do, I can do better.” Off of a Tara
Maloney corner kick, Heather netted her
eighth goal of the season and the game win-
ner. The goalkeeper was unsuccessful in a
“diving” effort to keep Duquesne in the game.
And when it came down to it, the only stat that
was comparable was in the foul category,
with each team receiving 17 total.

With so much success to date leading into
Southern Conference play, head coach Kevin
Hundley agrees that the Wildcats are taking it
one game at a time.

“With such a young team, we have to learn
lessons from every game,” said Hundley. “As

an errant cross from outside the box. Just
twelve minutes later, and still in the first half,
the Tarheels moved three goals ahead when
sophomore Ryan Kneipper finished a bounc-
ing ball in front of the net.

The first half left the ‘Cats reeling. Despite
their efforts to fight back in the second half, a
three goal lead proved too much for Davidson
to surmount. The Tarheels added their fourth

in the 75" minute on a penalty kick by senior »

Michael Bucy.

This first loss left Davidson facing a lot
questions before Friday’s home opener. Ap-
parently, they answered them.

Davidson left no doubters after Friday’ s 5-
1 trouncing of the Virginia Tech Hokies. In
front of a large and rowdy crowd, the ‘Cats
rushed out to an early lead.

At.the 7:25 mark, junior Jeremy Kilburn

headed home a beautifully orchestrated cor- _

ner kick. Erick Ozimeck set up the goal with
a low hard cross that found Chris Norbet on a
run to the near post. Norbet flicked the ball on

to Kilburn’s head who made no mistake put-

ting it past the Hokies’ helpless keeper. _

Freshman Justin Porter added to the lead —
.and the excitement of the game with his first

career goal. Perhaps the most impressive shot
of the season, Porter pulled the trigger from
approximately: 25 yards out splitting two
Hokie defenders and questing the ball just
inside the post.

Davidson brought the 2-0 ‘at into the
locker room at half.

Virginia Tech’s Kerl Schlegel attempted to
launchacomeback when he scored the Hokies’
lone goal at the 47:27 mark.

For several minutes it looked as though the
fate of the game might be in question. How-
ever, Davidson answered Schlegel’s goal with

two goals in one minute, laying all hopes of a

a result of games we have played so far this
season, weive been able to maintain our com-
posure and get back up, which was the case
against USC on Wednesday. We are learning

as we go through to continue to create good ©

chances but more so to begin consistently
finishing them.” ©

The Wildcats head into Southern Confer-
ence competition beginning on Friday, Sep-
tember 22" against Chattanooga at 4pm in
Richardson Stadium. They continue on Sun-
day, September 24" when they face Western
Carolina at lpm.

uz,

Mike Anderson
Tara Maloney ‘03 dribbles upfield

Wildcats shut out by Carolina, rout Va. Tech

ry

Virginia Tech comeback to rest.

Junior Jon Teterick got Davidson’s third
goal, and his third goal of the season, when he
finished a rebound off a Chris Norbet shot.

Norbet and Justin Saunders teamed up less
than a minute later sending in a cross that
junior Erik Ozimeck finished for his first goal
as a Wildcat.

The final thirty minutes of the game were
all Davidson. Coach Slagle substituted liber-

#9 Rankings

Press RELEASE

The Davidson College men’s and women’s
soccer teams were both ranked for the second
consecutive week in the National Soccer
Coaches Association of America regional
rankings released today.

The Davidson men, who host the Univer-
sity of South Carolina Wednesday evening at
Richardson Stadium, are ranked ninth in the
South Region rankings. The Wildcats are
coming off a 5-1 victory over Virginia Tech
in the home opener for the men. The team is

* currently 3-1-1 on the season.

The Davidson women moved up one spot
to ninth in this weekms rankings. The team,
whichis 6-1 onthe season, defeated Duquesne
on Friday evening, 2-1, and faces a Duke .
team which is ranked in the top-10 this Tues-
day at Richardson Stadium on -Davidson’s
campus. -

The 6-1 record for the women is the best
start through seven games in school history.

ally as the game closed but the ‘Cats never
lostastep. Davidson’s offense put on a clinic
for the Hokies and in the 87" minute, fresh-
man Nick Hansell scored his first collegiate
goal putting in a deflected shot by senior
Bryan Garrett.

The ‘Cats next face the no. ten nationally
ranked University of South Carolina, Wednes-
day night on Richardson field at 6:15.

Spring Break!

Deluxe Hotels, Reliable Air, Free Food,
Drinks and Parties!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas,
Mazatlan & Florida.

Travel Free and Earn Cash!

Do it on the Web!

Go to StudentCity.com
or call 800-293-1443 for info.

