W_

E

By Micnaet J. Kruse

D N

> © a 7 FS
= D

E

A Y

Wildcats finally defeat Charleston

Staff Writer

CHARLESTON, S.C. — With 5:46 to go
Jan. 15 at the College of Charleston’s Kresse
Arena, forward Landry Kosmalski drove the lane
ona mini-break, drew contact, converted the layup,

aon d

a .

Davideoies a eR 7H msi
College f OkGrieston 58 buimpinie.
Pos fist-pump-

ing spasm with teammate Jeff Bergmann.

The Wildcats’ lead was 13 —and Charleston’ s
streak was over.

More appropriately, Charleston’ s streaks were
over. Twenty-two straight league wins. Done.
Twenty-five straight home wins. Done. And nine
straight wins this season. Done.

“I want to congratulate the College of Charles-
ton and what they’ ve accomplished in this confer-
ence,” coach Bob McKillop said.

“But it’s a great feeling to be the ones to stop
the streak.”

Even if it was 12 months late.

Almost a year after taking the final seven
minutes to blow a 15-point lead against Charleston
at home, the men’s basketball team exorcised a
whole slew of demons here in the Lowcountry,

knocking off the vaunted Cougars 7 1-58 in front of

a sell-out crowd at Kresse.

If ever there was sweet redemption — poetic
payback — this was it.

“T think this team needs to feel very good
about themselves,” McKillop said. “I had a feel-
ing after the Furman game. I felt something.”

Maybe that something was Stephen Marshall.

The 6-foot-8 senior post player scored 20.

points in the second half for the second straight
game. After going scoreless in the first 20 minutes
Saturday — he was sidelined for most of the
period due to foul trouble — Marshall was unstop-
pable in the final period.

“We've got to get him shots,” McKillop said.
“When we get him shots he’s going to: give us

“numbers. And he did it today against one of the
best centers in the conference — probably one of
the best in the Southeast.”

That'd be Jody Lumpkin. He made | 1-of-16
field goals against Davidson for a game-high 25
points.

For all intents and parposts, though, Lumpkin

Mike Anderson

Senior forward Landry Kosmalski roars in celebration after coverting
a layup and drawing a foul in the Wildcats’ monumental 71-58 defeat
of College of Charleston. Entering the Jan. 15 contest against
Davidson, the Cougars had not lost a conference game since 1998.
But on that crisp winter bight the Wildcats said, “No more.”

’ involved,”

was a one-man show. High-flying and high-
scoring wings Jeff Bolton and James Griffin man-
aged only 16 points combined.

Griffin, a transfer from Wake Forest, struggled
mightily, missing all five of his shots from the
floor and ending up with just five points from the
line.

“We've got to get Griffin and Bolton more
said Kresse, the third-winningest ac-
tive coach in college basketball. “But Bob
McKillop is a great coach, and his team took it to
us physically. They have NBA physicality.

“] think in the back of their minds was that
loss last year. They were ready for a war, and they
really took it to us in the second half.”

And, unlike Charleston’s singular attack,
Davidson’s arsenal included.a gaggle of Wildcats.

Point guard Michael Bree hit two crucial
second-half three-pointers. Senior guard Jeff
Bergmann nailed an enormous three just as Charles-
ton was threatening to come back down the stretch.

Kosmalski finished with 15 points. Starting
guard Brian Turner added 12. Even rookie post
players Jason. Dickens and Michel Lusakueno
contributed quality minutes. Lusakueno had six
rebounds, and Dickens tied the game at 37 with a
dunk. ;

The Wildcats took it from there — and fin-
ished off what they started last January.

“I don’t think we were consumed by re-
venge,” said Marshall, who also grabbed eight
hich came on the offensive
glass. “But we have been thinking about it for the
last year.”

“Last year we tried to hit home runs in the last
seven minutes,” said Bergmann, who played a
much more important role in the victory than his
six-point, two-steal stat line indicates. “This is a
very big win for us.”

Perhaps the’ biggest win for the Wildcats
since they beat Appalachian State for the 1998
conference tournament championship and the
league’s automatic bid to the NCAAs. Charleston
stole some of Davidson’s reigning thunder last
year in sweeping its way to March Madness.

Added Bergmann: “We needed to prove to
the rest of the Southern Conference — and to
ourselves — that Davidson is still a force to be
reckoned with.”

“We were talking about swagger before the
game,” said Kosmalski, a senior captain. “‘And
you saw swagger tonight.”

Only in his first year, Bernard no stranger to rivalry

Yr, Mike Anderson
Bernard knows his hoops history

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Wayne Bernard hit the hardwood at John
Kresse Arena like a man on a mission.

Fitting, because that’s exactly what he was.

Ithad been almost one year since the Cougars
eviscerated the hearts and souls of Wildcat fans
with a demoralizing 15-point comeback shocker
at Belk Arena. :

The Wildcat point guard was a high school
senior at the time, but he has long since heard all
about that notorious night. .

“Even though I wasn’t here last year, it was
all about revenge for me. I saw the upperclassmen
getting hyped up, and I said, ‘We’ ve got to beat
them.””

Beat them they did. And then some.

Charleston entered the contest with an in-
domitable 22-0 record in Southern Conference
play, and an equally impressive 25-game winning
streak within the hallowed halls of their John
Kresse Arena (affectionately referred to as “The
John” by Charlestonians).

But Davidson strutted into the evening match-
up with an insatiable hunger, a defiant swagger,
and a long memory.

“We weren’tconsumed by revenge,” Stephen
Marshall said, “but we have been thinking about it
for the last year.”

And just in case they had forgotten, the rau-
cous Cougar faithful were none-too-shy about
offering some subtle reminders. One young fan
waved a poster reading, “Cougs know what to do

leading by 15!”

Wayne just smiled. “They had a big crowd.
They were yelling at us, talking trash to us, but I
love that. J used that to help hype the team up.
Towards the end of the game, when I drove and
gave Stephen the pass for that dunk, I loved it! The
crowd hated it, but I loved it.”

The season thus far has posed a number of
bonding opportunities for the Wildcat players,
including contests against some of the top teams in
the: nation and a long California road trip that
included a millennium celebration, But none of
them could compare to the unified effort that
toppled the Cougars.

“That puts a lot more confidence into us,”
Bernard says. “We know now that we can beat
anybody in the conference,”

_ DSS'GAMES OF THE WEEK INSIDE...
Men’s BaskeTBALL SWIMMING AND DivinG Ryan Lisa Marston
1/29 UNC Greensboro 7:00 1/29 Duke 12:00 Crawford leaving Davidson
1/31 Appalachian State 7:00 1/30 Virginia Tech 2:00 named All- to coach UNCC
2/1 Wake Forest 7:00 j , American volleyball
WRESTLING
1/28 Duquesne 6:30 p.m.
; «13
aia iBinceae 1/29 UNC-G Quadrangular* 10 a.m. ne aes
1/29 Georgia Southern 3:00
2/1 East Tennessee State 7:00 INDOOR TRACK — ; ‘
W Ss s
1/28-29 Forsyth County Collegiate Open oe Mea ence
ose sweeps home
Uhernik stand, pickup three
: : ; Boldface indicates home game for season SoCon wins
Meagan Gleason nailed ae penne mie ra Italics indicate Southern Conference games se
seconds left to seal Davidson’s win over Pat Greensboro WC. pg. 13 pg. 15
Wofford last Saturday at Belk Arena. Her ’
defense wasn’t too shabby, either. See inside. ‘

