THE DAvipsoNIAN

By CuristInA CooKE
Staff Writer

Diana Pendergrast ’02 climbed on her bike
this summer in New Haven, Ct. and began to
ride.

Sixty-three days and 4,200 miles later,
after crossing the Golden Gate Bridge in San
Francisco, Ca., she dismounted with her mis-
sion accomplished.

Diana cycled across the country with 28
other students as part of a Yale University
program to raise money and awareness for
Habitat for Humanity, a charitable organiza-
tion that builds homes for underprivileged
families.

The money they earned through
fundraising, including Diana’s $4,500,
amounted to enough for the construction of

two houses in New Haven. The riders also

spread word of Habitat to those they met —

along the way.

“T thought it would be a good experience. It
would be something I’d be proud of, it was for
a good cause, and I’d get to see the entire
country,” said Pendergrast.

Each morning, the group rose around 5:30

_ a.m. to begin riding before the heat became

too intense. Halfway through the day’s ride,
when they came upon the van that carried
their supplies, they would stop to eat lunch.
By mid-afternoon of most days, they reached
the church in which they would spend the
night.

The group cycled an average of 75 miles
each day. .

“For the first two weeks, you ‘were ex-
hausted by the end of the day,” recalled

Grant supports future religious leaders

By JoHANNES NorRLING
Staff Writer

A drug company has made a multi-million
dollar grant to Davidson designed to promote
religious activities on campus.

In May of last year, the Lilly Drug Com-
pany invited more than 60 colleges, including
Davidson, to write proposals for a new grant.
The company runs a foundation interested in
offering money to schools to promote reli-
gion on their campuses.

After nearly a year of planning by college
officials, Davidson’ s proposal was accepted,
and the school will receive nearly $2 million
beginning next year. °

The foundation has historically focused on
offering grants to small, theological seminar-
ies both in Indiana and throughout the United
States. However, in response to what they see

as a growing lack of ministers, the foundation .

has now decided to also focus on undergradu-
ate institutions.

Kevin McCarthy said Davidson’s “long
tradition” of students entering the ministry
makes the school a perfect candidate for the
grant.

However, he said the grant is also designed
to prepare students to take “leadership roles
in their congregation” even if they don’t
become ministers.

Davidson will receive roughly $500,000
each year over the next four years. However,
the foundation has not yet made it clear
whether the grant will be renewable again in
2004.

The grant comes with very few strings
attached. Lilly’s only guidelines are for us-
ing the money “‘to identify and nurture a new
generation of talented and committed reli-
gious leaders.”

Davidson officials say they will utilize
some of the money to promote student ser-
vice opportunities. Starting next year, the
school will develop many new community
projects. Students will also be able to request
funding for extended service trips over breaks,
and can receive resources even if they belong
to another church.

McCarthy sees “support for students in
other congregations” just as important as aid
for the college’s affiliated church, Davidson
Presbyterian.

A lecture series, featuring Davidson alumni,
will also begin next year. Designed to inform
students on “ways that they can relate theol-

ogy, reflection, and faith on their careers,”

the series will include speakers from many
professions, both religious and secular.

However, the grant will be used primarily
for extracurricular activities. There will be
very few changes to the existing curriculum
in the religion department, except that a new
theologian-in-residence will teach a course
for two semesters. ;

The grant is not entirely allocated yet. The
oversight committee, chaired by Dr. John
Kuykendall, is still planning many programs
over the next four years. Students with ideas
about the grant should contact the Rev. Rob
Spach in the Chaplain’s Office.

celebrations, study breaks,
exam time or just forfun!

BENGJERRY'S.

VERMONT’S FINEST ¢ ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT

202 Main St. Davidson 892-0604

Surprise your college kids

or campus chums with

sage cream a mr
fozen yo

for birthday or

graduation

Pendergrast, students bike cross country to raise money i

Pendergrast.

But after those first weeks; she said she.

grew accustomed to spending eight hours at
a time on the oad and felt she could last for
weeks without a day off.

The riders faced sweltering heat, forceful
winds, and steep mountains during many
parts, of the trip, but in Kentucky, they en-
countered a different obstacle.

“This Tyson chicken truck had an equip-
ment failure on the road,” Pendergrast re-
members. “Eight thousand dead or half-alive
chickens were scattered all over the road.
Pick-up trucks kept carrying the dead chick-
ens away from the site.”

A bystander offered the riders a shortcut
through his backyard as an:alternative to the
lengthy detour that the state trooper insisted
they take. And so to avoid the pile of chick-
ens, 26 of the cyclists rolled their bikes up his

overthe ence ofa goat pen, and continued on
their way.

Pendergrast said her favorite part of the
trip was interacting with the residents she met
along the way. |

oar all across the country were so
nice,” she said.

The members of the churches in which they
stayed prepared huge dinners each night.
Motorists offered directions, helped change
flat tires, and drove injured riders to the
hospital. As the cyclists struggled up hills,
many drivers flashed thumbs-up out their
windows as encouragement.

Over the course of the summer, Diana
pedaled through deserts, plains, hills, moun-
tain ranges, and barking dogs of 12 states, all
the way from one ocean to another.

At the beginning of the trip, she dipped her
back tires in the Atlantic Ocean, and at the

driveway and into his backyard, lifted them

without any. hope: of escapin ;
anyone else who understands. No. one can.
reach in to help you and you can’t reach out
to others. That light at the end of the tunnel
has suddenly gone out and there isno reason
to go on existing through the horrible pain
you face everyday. Nothing can make you
happy anymore, not even the family and
friends you once held so dear, Everyone
looks like a stranger and everything Jolt do
feels unfamiliar and uncomfortable. —

There were days when I was so tired I ©

| couldn’t bring myself to get out of bed. But

_ sive disorder, affecting 12% of women and

strangely enough, I never seemed to sleep. I _-

just drifted through endless gray moments
between dreaming and reality, waiting for
the next 1 and ‘moments which would

end, she dipped her front in the Pacific.

just.
can. be strong enough to live through it
again.

An estimated 19 million his in the
United States have some form of a depres-

7% of men each year. Depression is the
leading cause of disability for people five
and older. Symptoms of depression include
a sad mood, loss of enjoyment in activities
one once enjoyed, change in appetite or
weight, sleeping too much or insomnia,
feelings of worthlessness and guilt, lack oF

