14,

Wildcats’ slow start costly

Spartans open game with 33-9 run and sail to victory

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

GREENSBORO, N.C.—The old adage pro-
claims, “Good things come to those that wait.”

Probably good advice. But not for a
basketball team.

Davidson learned that the hard way on
Saturday, fail-
ing toneta field
goal during the
first four min-
utes of play here

at Fleming Gymnasium.

The Wildcat machinery idled for much
of the first half, propelling the third-place
Spartans to a 33-9 opening run and an even-
tual 75-57 victory.

“T have no explanation for that kind of

start,” lamented head coach John Filar. “TI
wish I did.”

Davidson closed the first half with a 9-0
run of their own, but Greensboro still took a
42-31 advantage into the half-time locker
room.

A Janna Magette three-pointer to open

_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

the second half cut the deficit to eight, but
Samika Foster answered with a trey of her
own to give Greensboro a permanent double-
digit advantage.

“We're feeling pretty good about where
we are as a team at this point in the season,”
said Spartan head coach Lynne Agee. “To-
day was a really solid performance.”

Magette led Davidson with 17 points,
while Jen O’Brien and Katy Kamp added 15
and 13, respectively.

Kamp had a strong performance, shoot-
ing 67% from the floor and leading the team
in rebounds. “Katy Kamp is always such a
threat inside,” said Agee.

Davidson shot a decent 42 percent from
the floor, but some suspect defense and piti-
able rebounding made for a long afternoon.

The ‘Cats were out-rebounded 37-29 by
the notably smaller Spartan lineup.

“We've slipped a little bit,” allowed Fi-
lar, whose Wildcats moved to 6-15 in South-
ern Conference play.

But, said Agee, “They’re still a tough,
scary team.”

Mike nderson

Janna Magette (above) and the Wildcats will be looking for a 1999-
2000 sweep of the Wofford Terriers when the Wildcats head to
Spartanburg, S.C. for the Feb. 21.contest against the Terriers.

Lacrosse team welcomes
new assistant coach

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

Davidson College women’s lacrosse
Head Coach Mary Schwartz has announced
the hiring of Amy Fine as assistant womens
lacrosse coach.

“Amy’s level of play and experience
brings so much to our program and its devel-
opment,” said head coach Mary Schwartz.

While at Davidson, Fine will be work
side by side with coach Schwartz and concen-
trate on the attack players. In addition to her
on-field responsibilities, she will monitor the
team’s nutritional program, work with the
team’s strength trainer and schedule travel
arrangements,

Fine comes to Davidson after serving a
one-yearstint as lacrosse coach at the College
of William & Mary. She also coached at
Stanford following graduation from UNC.

“I came to Davidson because of this
team’s attitude and willingness to learn and
work hard,” said Fine. “I think this isan up-
and-coming program that will be force in
lacrosse in the near future.”

While at Carolina, Fine earned Second

Team Brine/[WLCA All-American honors
and was an honorable mention USWLA AIll-
American in leading the Tar Heels to the 1997
Final Four. She finished the season as the
team’s leader in goals, points and assists and
ranked third in the Atlantic Coast Conference
in those same categories. Amy’s on-the-field
honors also earned her spots on the All-South
Region first team and the ACC all-tourna-
ment team.

Fine graduated from the University of
North Carolina in 1997 with a bachelor’s of
science in science teaching. She was a mem-
ber of back-to-back state championship teams
at Mt. Hebron High School in 1992 and 1993.

The 1999 lacrosse team finished the sea-
son With a 7-9 record. The ‘Cats graduated
three of the top five scorers in school history
and will be looking to senior goalie Lisa
Benjamin and juniors Lauren Kenchington
and Steph Hunter for leadership and scoring
in the upcoming season.

The Wildcats open the 2000 season Feb.
19 at the South of the Border tournament in
Durham, N.C., and play their first home con-
test against Duke March 12.

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17,2000. ,

@ Betk Arena, 2:00 P.M.

FOX SPORTS SOUTH.

a final score of 73-66.

Fesruary 19, 2000 — APPALACHIAN STATE MOuUNTAINEERS

Mountaineers’ Record (as of 2/13): 6-7 SoCon

What To Watch For: ASU’s Natasha Lettsome, a
6-1 junior from the Virgin Islands, is averaging 15
points and 7.4 rebounds per game. Watch for your-
self, too, as the game will be regionally televised by

Last Meeting: The Wildcats squandered a 51-33 lead and fell to the Mountaineers by

Bat
PPALACHIAN

APPALACHIAN

WOFFORD

Fesruary 21, 2000 — WorrorD TERRIERS
@ SPARTANBURG, S.C., 7:00 P.M.

Terriers’ Record (as of 2/13): 4-10 SoCon

What to Watch For:
hottest sharpshooter to hit the Southern Conference this
season...the freshman from Glendale, Missouri, led the
nation with a 47percent clip from behind the arc during her
sophomore season.

Last Meeting: Meagan Gleason hit a clutch three-pointer with less than a minute to play,
leading the Wildcats to a 67-62 comeback victory over the Terriers.

Wofford’s Carrie Colwell is the

Davidson ultimate frisbee
joins national organization

By Dave MoncurE

Staff Writer

Have you ever rounded up a bunch of
friends after a hard day of classes to play a
game of ultimate frisbee? Surely you thought
you were apretty good player, too. Well, you
have not seen a game of ultimate frisbee until
you have watched the intramural team, also
known as the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee
Folks (DUFF, for short).

In an average game to 13, DUFF will
show you some of the fastest throws, the most
amazing diving catches, and the most intri-
cate plays that you have ever seen in a game
of ultimate frisbee. According to sophomore
co-captain Dave Stroupe, DUFF’s practices
and games are very fast paced, much quicker
than a normal pick-up game of ultimate
frisbee.

This past Saturday the Davidson team
traveled to Furman University to compete in
its first tournament of the spring season.
Amid rain, sleet, and very muddy fields,
DUFF faced Furman, Oglethorpe, and
Greenville City (a men’s club team). David-
son posted a victory over Oglethorpe but lost
by narrow margins to both Furman and
Greenville City.

The tournament was. a learning experi-
ence,” said Stroupe. “We can only improve
from here. We did have lots of fun, though.”

The treacherous weather greatly affected
everyone’s play in the tournament. At one
point there was even a break because of
lightning, according to Stroupe.

The team’s next tournament is at home
Feb. 26. DUFF, led by co-captains Coddy
Coddington, Andy Rhodes, and Stroupe, look
to crush Appalachian State, Guilford, and
Furman in front of a home crowd on the
IMAC fields.

“We are going to get revenge against
Furman at home,” asserted Stroupe.

DUFF is also looking to increase its
UPA ranking. The Davidson team is now
registered as one of the 180 members of the
Ultimate Players Association. The UPA is an
organization that ranks the college teams

according to wins, loses, and the scores of
games (much like college football’s Bowl
Championship Series).

As a member of the UPA, Davidson will
get a national ranking based on its perfor-
mance versus any other member of the asso-
ciation. At the end of the year, there are
sectional tournaments based on the UPA
rankings. These tournaments conclude with
the winners heading on to regional tourna-
ments and one final national tournament.

This spring is the first time the Davidson
ultimate frisbee team has been a member of
the UPA because they were never able to
amass the funds necessary to pay the national
dues. The team started a frisbee fundraiser —
selling frisbees for eight dollars a piece — and
raised enough money to pay national dues
and become UPA members.

If you are interested in purchasing a
frisbee to help the team out with travel ex-
penses and future national dues (or if you just
need a frisbee to toss around after class),
contact Coddington.

Aside from the tournament at home on
Feb. 26, DUFF will also head to Colombia,
SC on March 18-19; Fredricksburg, VA on
March 31-April 2; and the sectional tourna-
ment on April 10-11.

Adam Rocap looks to pass.
