The £

DAVIDSON COLLEGI
-“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”

S
EstaBLisHeD 1914

OY Ce ey eee ee U BI

Code of Responsibility amended.

NEWS 2

VIDSONI

LJI.B.E:R TAS

OR TA

CatCard controversy stews at Baker.

OPINIONS 8

Jen O’Brien breaks scoring mark.
SPORTS 14

Erickson to be inaugurated Tuesday

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

The Student Government Association
will usher in a new administration this week
- with the inauguration of President Dane
Erickson and Vice-president Joey. Harris.

Erickson, a junior from Lakewood, Colo-
rado, ran unopposed for the office of SGA
president. “I’m really excited for this oppor-
tunity given to me by the student body and by
my friends,” said the current SGA vice-presi-
dent. “There’s just a great amount of poten-
tial for what we can do this next year.”

Erickson, co-captain of the men’s soccer
team and holder of the prestigious Amos
Norris Scholarship, emphasized “the distri-
bution of information” as a key project for the
semester.

“One thing we really need to work on is
public relations,” he said. “I think the SGA
has consistently worked hard and accom-
plished a great many things for the student
body. But the problem is, that information
and the topics that are discussed at SGA
meetings are not brought out to the student
body.”

The president-elect has already begun to
lay the groundwork for his tenure at the helm,
promising to address issues ranging from the
Vamonos Van to a campus recycling pro-
gram. “Over the next year, we need to be-
come more pro-active, we need to be more in
touch with the campus, and we need to tackle
the big issues.”

Erickson’s ascension breaks a recent
string of South Carolina presidents, dating
back to Warren Buford in 1996.

But Erickson promised to continue some
of the work of his predecessors. Most nota-
bly, the product of Green Mountain High
School has pledged to uphold Haselden’s
commitment to increased senator account-
ability. “Part of the ongoing problem,”
Erickson explained, “is that a majority of the
work in SGA is done by a minority of the
senators...I want to give senators the freedom
and responsibility that they deserve so they
can do their job to the fullest.”

As the first unopposed candidate for
SGA President since Buford in 1996, Erickson
admits that he missed the thrill of the cam-
paign. “In some ways, I wish that somebody
would have run against me. Because cam-
paigning is fun: It puts you in touch with the
campus and it gives you an idea of who you
are and what you’ ve been doing and what you
plan to do.”

With the lack of competition at the top of
the ballot, all eyes were focused on the spir-
ited, and sometimes contentious, campaign
for the vice-presidency.

Sophomore class president Joey Harris
edged junior Ben Carter in the race for the #2
spot.

Erickson declined to endorse either can-
didate, but says that he is eager to begin work
with Harris. “Joey is one of the most loved
people on this campus. He has a tremendous
amount of experience on SGA, and I look
forward to not only working with him, but
also to getting to know him better as a per-

”

son.

Outgoing President Foster Hbesidon, right, passes SGA leadership
to Dane Erickson.

“It’s definitely been a roller coaster for

me,” said Harris. “But I feel relieved now,
and I’m really excited about working with
Dane. .He’s a great guy and we’ve worked
well together in the past.”

Harris has been on the fast-track for
SGA leadership since he stormed onto cam-
pus in the fall of 1998, emerging from a pack
of over thirty candidates to capture the fresh-
man class presidency. Harris, himself a South
Carolinian, won re-election to a second term
by an overwhelming margin.

But Carter waged a potent challenge to
the “SGA establishment.”

“I think the SGA in general needs to take
a very critical look at what its priorities are
and be very ambitious in the goals that it sets
for itself,” Carter said. “The SGA wields an
uncanny amount of power, and I rarely see it
using that power to get meaningful goals
accomplished.”

Carter set his sights particularly on Har-
ris’ emphasis on the cable TV issue. “It really
troubled me to see the SGA pursuing an issue
like cable. Cable would be an appropriate
issue if we didn’t have a virtually segregated
community. It would be an appropriate issue
when everyone feels comfortable being open
with their sexuality. Until then, it seems.a
fairly frivolous issue to be concerned with.”

But Harris strongly defended his work
on cable exploration. “My name has been
synonymous with cable whether I like it or

ot,” he mused. “But it’s a challenge that I
embrace, and it’s a challenge that I plan to

continue to make an issue out of. If it’s
important to students, then it’s important to
the SGA.”

Haselden, who appointed Harris to head
the SGA’s exploratory committee, defended
the SGA’s record saying, “Exploring the cable
idea was just one of our many goals this year.
Students came to us and raised this issue, we
had a duty to pursue it for them.

“Tt wasn’t the only thing we worked on
this year. It was a high-profile issue, but we
only spent parts of two meetings over the
course of an entire year debating it. Our job is
to respond to student concerns—and we re-
sponded thoroughly to each issue raised over
the past year.”

Haselden points to the SGA’s work with
the Code of Responsibility Amendment, the
campus recycling program, the bylaws revi-
sions, restructuring of SGA committees and
councils, and response to the demand for
increased lounges. But he seems especially
proud of the Senate’s support of other organi-

See Election, page 2.

Haselden ends
tenure as SGA

president

By RICHARD VINSON
Staff Writer

Bringing to close three and one half
years of Student Government leadership,
Foster Haselden presided over his final
meeting of the SGA on Tuesday.

Haselden, a senior history major from
South Carolina, was elected Class of 2000
President shortly after arriving on campus
in his freshman year. He was re-elected
twice before assuming the helm of the
SGA in January of 1999.

The outgoing SGA president leaves
behind an impressive legacy of notable
accomplishments, sincere devotion, and a
stirring passion for this college and its
student government.

Summing up his motivations,
Haselden explains, “You care so much
about the college because you want it to be
the best. You inyest so much of your
personality when you take a job like SGA
president.”

Vice-President of the SGA Dane
Erickson commends Haselden for his hard
work. “Working side by side with him for
an entire year, I saw Foster give his heart
and soul to Davidson College,” said
Erickson.

- Haselden describes his tenure around
a framework of three core beliefs: the im-
portance of senator accountability, an em-
phasis on efficiency and effectiveness, and
a willingness to solicit and address student
concerns. «

Joey Harris, president of the Class of
2002, recalls that Haselden set the tone for
the year early in his administration. “In
one of his very first addresses, he said he
was going to work us hard.”

. Haselden acknowledges his emphasis
on senator accountability, “I was serious
about senators responding to the needs of
this campus.”

Mike Anderson, Haselden’s chancel-
lor, says, “Foster brought so much vision to
the Senate during his administration. But
even more importantly, he had an uncanny
ability to inspire others to work hard along-
side him.”

Haselden speaks with pride about the
way the SGA supported last month’s Mar-
tin Luther King Day celebrations. “We
were really vocal in the body about coming
back for Martin Luther King Day.

“We alerted senators that they had a

ee Foster, page 2.

INTL. COMMENTARY .........
BEF OR ocsissh sisressosenstes ena’
EDT PORTAL oo. ..c.sssissesssessesssss
SRR ROD acs uiai (cesar saiecosassesossivass

va 3 First Class Mail
ne U.S. Postage Paid
Ree) Permit #1

12 Davidson, NC 28036

