Pro-life position based on satus presen scientific, m

BY MICHAEL GALDO ©
Special Contributor

Forty million abortions have been carried
out in the United States since 1973. Only one
percent of those abortions resulted from re-
ported rape or incest. At six weeks a child’s
brain waves can be measured. And since
sensory nerves, the thalamus, and motor
nerves are all formed at eight weeks, a child
can feel pain from that point on.

. But what right do you have to tell a woman
what to do? Isn’t a fetus merely a potential
life anyway? Does the government have the
right to decide what a female can or can’t do
with her own body?

These questions are often thrown at pro-
life supporters in response to the aforenien-
tioned facts. They stem from a strongly held
that a woman has the inalienable right. to
decide what happens to her own body.

On the other hand, pro-life supporters have
used many analogies and examples to explain
their beliefs, and some have even resorted to
the answer “the Bible says it is wrong.” As

Bush “guarantees”

By TOM RAUM
Associated Press Writer

CHICAGO (AP) _ George W. Bush is
standing by his offer for three presidential
debates, including one as early as next week,
ignoring rival Al

Gore’s quick rejection of his terms.

“T’ve laid out the debates we’re going to
do,” Bush told reporters late Sunday at.an
airport news conference here. “‘He’s got his
chance.”

But few in either party expected Republi-

.can Bush’s overture—or Democrat Gore’s
refusal—to be the final word on debates as the
campaigns jockeyed for advantage. They were
maneuvering to arrange terms that best play
torespective strengths of each candidate while
exploiting the rival’s weaknesses.

After a difficult two weeks that had seen
Gore’s poll numbers rise, Bush strategists
sought a way to steal attention from the vice
president’s,round-the-clock Labor Day tour.

They did it with a hastily arranged news
conference on Sunday afternoon in Austin,
Texas, with Bush proposing the first debate
next week—on Sept. 12, during a special
prime-time edition of NBC’s“Meetthe Press.”

It would be followed Oct. 3 in Los Angeles
on CNN’s “Larry King Live” and Oct. 17 at
Washington University in St. Louis.

“I have a simple message: Let the debates
begin,” Bush said.

Only one of the events he accepted-the
final one in St. Louis—was proposed by the
bipartisan commission that has overseen presi-
dential debates since 1988.

The Bush proposal also includes two vice
presidential debates: Oct. 11 in Winston-
Salem, N.C., and a later forum yet to be
-decided.

Gore said he was disappointed by Bush’s
terms, saying such a format would limit the
audience.

“What’s needed is to respect the right of the
American people to see these debates on all
networks in prime time, the way it’s been

done since 1988,” Gore said in Philadelphia -

His campaign chairman, William Daley,’
was blunter, saying: “We reject George Bush’s
plan to shortchange Americans by cutting
tens of millions of people out of the presiden-
tial debate audience.”’

Bush aides retorted by noting that both
CNN and NBC had offered to make the
program available to the other networks.

Furthermore, they emphasized that both -

the CNN and NBC debates on their list had

previously been accepted by Gore—who ac-
cepted dozens of debate invitations.

“We expect the vice president to keep his

At

effective those answers may be, however,
they don’t do the issue justice. One should not
have to resort to religion or metaphors to
explain a conviction. Simple facts will do.

The question that cuts to the core of the
issue is “Isn’t a fetus merely a potential life?”
One can debate all the philosophic angles of
this important question for hours; however,
from a strictly scientific standpoint the ques-
tion has long been answered. In 1981 the
Senate decided to bring in experts on the
subject from all across the globe to formulate
an authoritative answer. Professor M.
Matthews-Roth of Harvard University said
when brought before the committee, “It is
scientifically correct to say that individual
human life begins at conception.” Professor
H. Gordon, from the Mayo clinic, stated it
even more compellingly when he said, “It is
an established fact that human life begins at
conception.”

Proponents of abortion themselves, includ-
ing Dr. Leon Rosenberg of Yale University,
offer no scientific evidence supporting their
claims about the beginning of human life.

series of debates

word,” said Bush spokeswoman

Karen Hughes. “This is a fundamental ques-
tion of credibility.”

“Al Gore said he would debate the gover-
nor any time, any place,” she said.

Gore is a seasoned debater and his cam-
paign had already accepted the Commission
of Presidential Debate’s proposal for three
90-minute sessions, all in prime time.

The Bush campaign, by contrast, was look-
ing for a more informal setting with a single,
preferably noncombative, moderator.

The commission-arranged debates tend to
be ‘‘very structured, very rigid,” said Hughes.

“No candidate should arrogantly insist on
debating only where and when it best suits
him,’ Daley, Gore’s campaign chairman,
declared.

But, in fact, President Clinton in his 1996
re-election campaign balked at the three de-
bates the commission scheduled between him
and Republican Bob Dole—and as a conse-
quence, only two were held. Dole had pro-
posed four.

Jockeying for advantage between the two
camps almost always precedes presidential
debates.

~Gore maintains that the three events pro-
posed by the commission will reach the wid-
est viewing audience, and suggests Bush is
trying to duck the high-profile meetings in
the final weeks of the campaign.

Bush campaign chairman Don Evans said
the debates Bush agreed to would occur dur-
ing prime viewing hours and that both CNN
and NBC have agreed to make video feeds of
the events simultaneously available to the
other networks.

“These were important criteria for us,”
Evans said.

Bush also said the debates would be carried
on the Internet. .

Athis Chicago news conference, Bush was
asked what the next step would be —given the
Gore campaign’s rejection of his proposal.
“T’ve still got confidence he’ll keep to his
word’’ and accept any and all debates, he
replied.

Meanwhile, Republican officials said Sen.
Judd Gregg of New Hampshire has been
tentatively chosen to play the role of Gore in
practice sessions for the debates.

Bush’s running mate, Dick Cheney, said
Rep. Rob Portman of Ohio has agreed to
stand in as Democrat Joseph Lieberman in
practice sessions for the vice presidential
debates. “He’ll do a good job,” Cheney said,
adding, “It *

would be interesting to know who Joe’s
going to use to get me.’

They only offered philosophic evidence when

brought before the Senate. To directly quote
the Senate Judiciary Committee report, “Phy-

Sicians, biologists, and other scientists agree

that conception marks the beginning of the
life of a human being —<a being that is alive
and is a member of the human species. There
is overwhelming agreement on this point in
countless medical, biological, and scientific
writings.”

Still, supporters of the right to choose feel
that women are guaranteed the right to end an
unwanted pregnancy. If one goes by gener-
ally accepted scientific knowledge, then the
“fetus” is, in fact, an individual human being,
distinct, completely original, and capable of
feeling ‘pain. The question then becomes,
“Does a woman have the right to decide the

‘fate of another human life if that life may
cause unwanted, negative effects to her own.

body?” I am not here to argue that pregnancy
is an enjoyable experience. I am sure that the
pain experienced by a mother during child-
birth is excruciating. However, does poten-
tial physical pain grant someone some sort of

oni poteit ju
whether or not another human will live? ae
The answer is a resounding “No!” Life is
the metaphysical “parent” of all choices. With-
out life a person does not have the opportu-
nity to make any decisions. In essence, by
choosing to end her child’s life, a mother has
chosen death over life for another individual.
That contradicts the very foundation of our
country: the inalienable right to life,. liberty,
the pursuit of happiness, and justice for all
humans, including those not yet born.
Fortunately, death is not the only option
available to a woman who finds herself in an
unwanted or unexpected pregnancy. The posi-
tive side of this issue is that there are hun-
dreds of families who are unable to haye =
children and who are waiting expectantly for
the call from their adoption service that in-
forms them of a mother who has decided to

give her baby up for adoption. If apregnancy *-

truly is “unwanted,” then a woman has the
option of allowing another family, who may
be better suited at that time, to raise her child.

Anti-abortion rhetoric hinges on
misconception, lack of respect for choice

BY KRISTINE HARRINGTON

Special Contributor

The mere mention of the word “abortion”
undoubtedly conjures up images of protests,
violence, and a divided America.

"There are so many misconceptions about
the issue, that it is sometimes difficult to
distinguish fact from fiction. Therefore, it is
high time that we dispel the rumors and the
myths, and acknowledge the truth.

Regardless of personal views, it is morally
questionable to tell people whether they should
be for or against abortion.

However, it is completely acceptable to
expect any rational, compassionate person to
be for choice. Because of the inherent divi-
siveness of abortion, views will vary all along
the political spectrum, even crossing party
lines.

There are, after all, pro-choice Republi-
cans and “pro-life” Democrats. But what sets
the Democratic Party apart as a whole is its
respect for the personal decision that every
woman makes, whatever she chooses. The
party platform says all it needs to say: “We
believe it is a fundamental constitutional Itb-
erty that individual Americans — not govern-
ment — can best take responsibility for mak-
ing the most difficult and intensely personal
decisions regarding reproduction.” (2000
Democratic National Platform).

Pro-choice individuals do not promote ir-
responsible or hasty decisions. But we do
question the efforts of the government to tell
women, as individual human beings with
individual situations, what their best choice
must be.. After all, who is in a better position
to make a responsible and thoughtful deci-
sion than the pregnant woman herself?

A major focus of abortion opponents is the
so-called “partial birth abortion” ban. Over
the summer, the Supreme Court struck down
a Nebraska statute outlawing “partial birth
abortions,” saying that the law was unconsti-
tutionally vague and did not contain an ex-
ception for.the woman’s health.

. Anti-choice advocates would have you

believe that this was a grossly inhumane
decision on the part of the Court, that it
allowed doctors to stab supposedly perfectly-
formed babies in the back of the head with
dull scissors. Such language is purely in-
flammatory rhetoric, intended to. disturb
people to sucha great extend that they oppose
“partial birth abortions” in all cases.

The reality is that there is no such thing as ~
“partial birth abortions.” I repeat: There is
no such thing as “partial birth abortions.”
Need I say it again? There is no such thing as
“partial birth abortions.” This phrase was
invented by anti-choice activists purpose-
fully to scare the public — it is not a medical .
term and there is no such procedure. per- ©
formed by any legal abortion provider.—

The idea that this is the murder of children
days away from being born is wrong. In fact,
third trimester abortions were outlawed more
than 25 years ago by Roe v. Wade, with a few
necessary exceptions such as ‘life endanger- “
ment of the woman.

What Nebraska’s legislation, and 30 other
similar state bans, would have outlawed are
two second term procedures which were used
in cases of tragic fetal anomalies or to save a
woman’s life or health. Neither procedure is
anything like what anti-choice activists would
have you believe. Both procedures remain
medically necessary in some cases and must
be kept. legal if we want abortion to remain
safe and accessible.

What is truly inhumane here is the gross»: ~

disregard and disrespect anti-choice forces
hold for women in very difficult situations.
These women deserve our love and support,
regardless of what they decide.

We must all trust that each woman facing
an unplanned or unhealthy pregnancy’ does “~
what is right for her and her situation, what-
ever that may. be. It is truly insulting that ©
some government officials have so little faith
in female decision-making in difficult situa-
tions. No woman would make the decision |
lightly, and no one else should make that _
decision on her behalf.

Kristine Harrington ‘03

