4 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

Press RELEASE

Future generations of Davidson language stu-
dents may never study verb conjugation and memo-
rize vocabulary from the pages of a book. The next
generation will learn at computer terminals in a
new Language Resource Center (LRC) that the
college is currently constructing in the south base-
ment of Chambers.

The LRC will open in January, transforming
the Oeland Language Center into a facility built to
allow faculty to integrate technology into their
foreign language lesson plans in exciting-ways. It
will feature equipment, software, training, and
space for faculty members to include computer-

ACS grants
received

* Press RELEAS#

Four Davidson scientists each recently re-
ceived $2,500 grants from the Associated Col-
leges of the South effort to develop
high-tech teaching materials and cur-

NEWS
New facility location will transform langua

ized instruction, digital video of everyday interac-
tions in other countries, and Web sites students can
visit to keep up with other cultures.

Faculty members Burkhard Henke, Scott
Denham, Alan Singerman, and Charles-Dockery
spent the last few years researching similar facili-
ties and programs at other institutions. “Informa-
tion technology has taken the world by storm,
including the academy,” said Singerman. “Tech-
nology is transforming foreign language peda-
gogy.” Henke added, “The great advantage is the
opportunity to teach with culturally authentic
material.” He noted that students will be exposed
to the same materials on the Web as native speak-
ers, such as train schedules, advertisements, and
news. They can practice reading examples of the
language used in real-life situations to gain cul-
tural understanding. Additionally, the Center will
allow students to learn independently of profes-
sors more. effectively, because computer-based
materials can provide immediate feedback on their
work.

Peter Janssens will be the new director, help-
ing faculty and students take full advantage of the
new opportunities. A native of Belgium who speaks
six languages, Janssens will maintain the comput-
ers, assist with creation of multimedia and web-

based instructional materials, train student em-
ployees, and teach classes in Spanish and/or French.

The Center will host both classroom sessions
and open lab hours. “Language instruction has
been superb at Davidson, even though the foreign
language faculty has not had full access to the
latest technological resources,” said Clark Ross,
vice president for academic affairs. “This facility
is overdue and will only add to an already excel-
lent foreign language program.”

Partially funded through a grant from the
Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, the LRC will
feature 21 computer stations, an instructor’s con-
sole, a projection system, three servers, a VCR,
scanner, printer, and digital camera. New office
space, a photo room, and a faculty workroom are

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

e learnin

ing built. e
Henke is one of the professors taking the
technological and pedagogical initiative. In 1998
he created Web pages that require students to
practice their listening comprehension, reading,
and writing skills all in the context of real cultural
content. He and Denham wrote content for the
pages that parallels student work in textbooks.
German 201 students also create their own Web
pages, thereby gaining experience in two lan-
guages, HTML and German!

Denham reports a marked increase in stu-
dents’ enthusiasm and skills. “It makes for real
communicative competency among our students,”
he said.

also

Lake Norman’s
Best Mexican Food!

ricula that might be shared with other
ACS member institutions.

Karen Bernd, assistant professor
of biology, will integrate Web-based
assignment modules for her upper level
Biology 308 cell biology course and
laboratory next fall. She will employ
the Just-In-Time Teaching (JiTT) ap-
proach and WebAssign program, both °
of which were developed by Wolfgang
Christian of the physics department.
By providing questions involving theory
and application and instantaneous elec-
tronic feedback to both students and
faculty member, the materials she de-
velops are intended to allow more ef-
fective use of class time and increase
students’ retention of material.

Malcolm Campbell, assistant pro-
fessor of biology, will work to further
refine web pages for his Genome Con-
sortium for Active Teaching (GCAT)
that are already interactive and dynamic.
Campbell developed GCAT to bring
functional genomic methods into un-
dergraduate curriculum. Genomics is

Need your hair done?

102 S. Main St. upstairs
895-0977
Student references available...

~
SS

“Vs

{ cORNELIUS

Magnolia Pl Ctr.
Wy 73 We bait 28

895-2363

the effort to discover and characterize

the estimated 70,000 human genes.
Michael Dorcas, assistant profes-
sor of biology, will create a web-based
system to help students learn to recog-
nize the calls of frogs and toads.
These “anuran” populations are a
valuable indicator of the general health
of ecosystems, and the ability to moni-
tor them is an increasingly important

Your image is ]
everything. How
much it costs can

be our little secret.

ecological skill for students to learn.
Dorcas’ system will improve upon ex-
isting audiotape systems by allowing
students to select only calls that occur
in their geographic area, and by linking
the sound files to photographs and in-
formation such as the natural history
and breeding seasons of each species.
Finally, an evaluation section will give
students on-line call identification quiz-
zes, testing their skills as they develop.

Dan Boye, associate professor of
physics, and Greta Munger, assistant
professor of psychology, plan to de-
velop a variety of experiences involv-
ing sounds to share with students the
breadth of the aural world. From teach-
ing previous courses on the physics of
sound and the psychology of sound,
they have discovered a great deal of
overlap in the type of interactive dem-
onstrations they would like to provide
for students. Boye has already done
some work at putting sound files on the

Tumberry Place-Cornelius
(Next to Sushi at the Lake)

W. Catawba Ave

web, but the two professors would like
to develop web-based exercises that
include manipulation of more complex
sounds like chords and orchestral tim-
bre. That work will require creation of
java language tools for manipulating
sounds, as well as documentation. They
hope to engage students in a wide range
of physics and psychology courses that
touch on the sound or sound perception
in the exploration of how it is that we
hear things.

HAIRCUT & BLOWDRY
Ss 6.99

OFFER EXPIRES 12/17/99

Not valid with other offers
Lomtt ome compon per
customer. Good at

Turnberry iocation only.

Gr eat Clips for hair

' M 2
‘ee
\ :

cad
=> sas

J

“~f

( MEXICAN FOOD COOKED BY
AUTHENTIC MEXICAN CHEFS

~

RESTAURANTE
MEXICANO

Y

° © © »
MOORESVILLE

Port Villa . Ctr.
482 € River gi 150)

664-6363

we throw all kinds of

lobstacles] at you.

tuition isn’t one of then.

Sure, we'll have you climbing walls. But if you qualify for
a 2- or 3-year scholarship, tuition’s one obstacle you won't
have to worty about. Talk to an Army ROTC rep. And geta

leg up on your future.

ARMY ROTC unlike any other college course you

&
X(

can take,
