By Micuaet J. Kruse
Staff Writer

Over 1,000 fans spilled onto the Belk
Arena floor Wednesday night. Shirtless
pledges climbed railings. One guy knocked
over Wake Forest’s water cooler. And the
Davidson student body danced with its team.

Belk went bonkers.

If you were there — and considering the
student turnout, there’s a good chance you
were — you know what I’m talking about. If
you weren’t, well, that’s OK, too. Maybe you
had something else to do. Maybe you don’t
like basketball. But know that you missed
out.

The men’s basketball team beat Wake

54-49 in overtime for arguably the program’s ©

biggest home win since a 59-56 effort against
Ole Miss in December 1996. Wednesday
night’s upset also ended Davidson’s eight-
game losing streak against ACC opposition
and a 21-year run of futility with the Demon
Deacons.

Senior duo Stephen Marshall and Landry
Kosmalski combined for 39 of the team’s 54
points. Against the Davidson defense —
some man, some zone, and even some junk —
Wake managed just 30.4 percent shooting
from the floor.

But those are just numbers. It was the
crowd — the atmosphere — that made the
difference.

“The fans were as vital a part of this
victory as our players,” coach Bob McKillop
told Frank Santore on the Davidson Radio
Network. “It was the best in my 11 years
here. Without a doubt.”

“They were wild and crazy tonight,”
Kosmalski said of the 4,875 that packed Belk.
“And these are all people we know because
we have such a small school. They’re our
friends. It feels really good.”

One fan at the postgame gathering at the
Depot flat-out thanked McKillop.

“Thanks, Coach,” he said. “I mean it.
Thank you. I had fun tonight. I really did.”

He wasn’t alone. There was ample rea-
son to celebrate. After all, something like
Wednesday night seldom happens for this
program.

Running with the big dogs

Davidson basketball is fighting a con-
stant battle with the region’s biggies—Duke,
Wake, even UNC Charlotte.

The Wildcats haven’t beaten Duke since
December 1981—Mike Krzyzewski’s sec-
ond season in Durham, a year in which the
Blue Devils went 10-17. Duke has won 78 of
the 95 meetings between the two schools.

Until Wednesday night, Wake had taken
19 in a row from the Wildcats, the last two
defeats coming by a combined six points.

Even in this program’s Golden Age of
the 1960s—a decade in which Lefty Driesell
fielded three All-Americans and guided the
Wildcats to three NCAA tournament berths—
Davidson couldn’t beat Big Brother from
Chapel Hill.

Dean Smith’s UNC teams met the
Wildcats twice in the East Regional
championship game with a trip
to the Final Four on the line—
and twice emerged victorious,
70-66 in 1968 and 87-85 in
1969.

Closecallsandmissedop- §
portunities, though, are part of
the Davidson hoops legacy.

Consider these results from
the last five years alone: N.C.
State 84-80. Michigan 82-
70. UNCC-70-68. UNCC @
71-62. x

Last year’s 84-80 loss Su be

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wayne Bernard takes off from the baseline dur-
ing the Feb. 2 game against Wake Forest at Belk

Arena.

to the College of Charleston was particularly
frustrating. The Wildcats built a 15-point
lead in the first 33 minutes — only to collapse

‘in the final seven.

“We had them in the palm of our hand,”

McKillop said that night of the 5,000-plus

crowd. ‘And we let them slip away.”

This year, too, the Wildcats threatened to
lose campus and community support — just
last weekend, actually, by blowing an 11-
point lead in the final four minutes against
UNC Greensboro.

Which is what made Wednesday’s win
so darn gratifying.

Silence...

Scott Denham has been silent. Orat least
nobody’s been listening.

The outspoken German pfofessor cre-
ated a stir last semester in Libertas by attack-

ing, among other things, the curious role of

Division I athletics at what is in all other
respects a Division III school.

“Big sports does not have a healthy
pulse,” Denham wrote, “just a big libido and
an even bigger appetite. That’s time we could
all spend learning to be more humane, to
think; money we could spend on financial
aid.”

Denham elicited such an ardent response
because he took to task a way of life for 25
percent of this school’s student body. In my
mind, though, many folks reacted the way
they did because they knew he hada
point.

There are few rational rea-
sons for Davidson to play
DI sports.

Lofty academic
standards limit teams’
ability to attract the vast
majority of potential col-
. legiate athletes. There are
approximately 18,000 living
Davidson alumni — only so
many pockets from which to glean ath-
letic donations.

The Lake Norman area, although boom-
ing, provides a limited number of would-be
fans. Charlotte has the Hornets and the Pan-

_ THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 17,2000 _

sion I. Because things like Wednesday night
have happened, do happen, and could happen
again.

thers and UNCC—and
usually doesn’t even
support them.

And the current en-
rollment of roughly
1,600 students makes
Davidson the second-
smallest, non-military,
co-ed DI school in
the nation.

But that isn’t the
point.

What Denham
doesn’t seem to under-

Fvecyon kasiei is annie
time before Lusakueno would burn the net

stand is this: Sports | Davidson 104 With we
aren’t about reason. | Chattanooga 78 om,

They’re about the pos-
sibility — the dream,
the hope, the chance.
Whatever you want to
call it.

Why does David-
son remain Division I?
Because Lefty’s Wild-
cats of the 1960s
brought nation-wide
recognition to the then-
all-male rural institu-
tion.

Because the men’s
soccer team advanced
to the Davidson-hosted
Final Four in 1992 and
made an appearance at
No. 5 in the country last
fall.

Because McKillop’s squad went to At-
lanta to play Michigan two seasons ago in the
NCAAs. Because a graphic on CBS that
night showed the two schools’ enrollments—
Davidson 1,600; Michigan 37,000.

“Shoot,” said the guy sitting next to me
on press row at Georgia Dome. “Michigan
has dining halls that hold more students than
Davidson educates.”

You’re darn right Davidson plays Divi-

his second to come 15 ssciaae later.

Four of Lusakueno’s career-high 7
points were two rim-bending dunks that
contributed to the Wildcat’s dominating
104-78 victory over the Chattanooga Mocs
Monday night at Belk Arena.

“T just did was I was suppossed to do,”
said a modest Lusakueno after the game.

Pushing through aseason that has seen
more than its share of highs and lows,
including the most recent 82-72 loss: at
Western Carolina, the Wildcats put on a
show Monday night that no doubt will
become one of the highest mages of the
season.

Jeff Bergmann scored a career-high
19 points on perfect 6-for-6 shooting. His
five three pointers tied his career-high and |
ledthe team’s 13-for-22 performance from
behind the arc.

“T loved the way Jeff attacked the rim

Anna Judy

quest trem in second place in the
North Division. _ 2

Fepruary 19, 2000 — APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINEERS
@ Boon, N.C., 12:00 p.m.

Mountaineers’ Record (as of 2/15): 11-2 SoCon

Last Meeting: We’d all prefer not to think about this
one. The Mountaineers came to Belk Arena Jan. 31,
2000, and pulled out a 77-72 win over the Wildcats.
Davidson led at the half, 33-31, but the last 20
minutes belonged to App State, which never trailed
during the second period and increased its lead to as much as 15 at one point. Stephen
Marshall recorded his fourth double-double of his career (24 points, 11 rebounds). Four
Mountaineers posted double-digit scoring efforts.

Turn on the big screen: This match-up will be the only nationally televised game of the
Wildcats’ 1999-2000 regular season. Live coverage of the game, which tips off at noon,
will be carried by espn2.

Fesruary 21, 2000 — VMI Keybets
@ LexinaTon, VaA., 7:00 P.M.

Keydets’ Record (as of 2/21): 1-12 SoCon

Last meeting: Davidson beat VMI 80-69 Jan. 22 at Belk

Arena, marking the Wildcats’ fifth conference win of the

season. Two Wildcats scored over twenty points (Kosmalski, 20; Marshall, 21) and
Wayne Bernard recorded his first double-double of his career (10 rebounds, 16 points).
For the Keydets, Richard Bruce paced the squad with 18 points.

Who would have thought: VMI beat Appalachian State Monday night. Will the
surprises never end?

