[DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“The South’s Foremost
College Weekly”
EsTABLISHED 1914

ALE N.D A

rw ORs

Perspectives on Chechnya.

Pages 6-7

UB

Th e BD aut ison a

LJ Bee RT AS

ORTA

The future of MLK Day at Davidson?

EDITORIALS 10

A month’s worth of hoops!

SPORTS 12

Celebrations, citations mark Self-Selection night

By Mik& ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

Amidst furious pomp and circumstance, the
Patterson Court houses welcomed an influx of
new members on Friday night.

One hundred eighty first-year women self-
selected into eating houses, while 104 first-year
men accepted bids to join fraternities.

Nearly all those involved describibed Self-
selection Night was an overwhelmingly positive
experience. But the evening was not without some
mishaps--including two hospitalizations, a fire,
and at least four alcohol citations issued by an
uninvited outside law enforcement agency.

According to Patterson Court Adviser Craig
Rinker, Rusk paced the eating houses with 50 new
members. Forty-nine women joined Turner, while
Connor and Warner Hall welcomed 41 and 40 new
members, respectively.

“T had a great time!” said first-year student
Beth Gardner, who self-selected into Connor. “Self-
selection night was even better than I expected.
There was a lot of excitement and enthusiasm.”

On the fraternity end, Kappa Sig led with 23
freshmen accepting bids, followed by SigEp and
PhiDelt (22), KA (16), PiKA (12), and FIJI (9).
Results from KA and PiKA are tentative, and are
expected to rise slightly.

Describing the festivities as “nude fun at its
greatest,” Phi Delt pledge Daniel Hanks said, “It’s
definitely unlike any experience I’ve ever been
through. It was one of the most fun nights I’ ve ever
had.”

Rinker, who joined Davidson as Patterson
Court Adviser this month, said, “From all I’ve
seen so far, the Patterson Court scene is very
strong. There are a lot of individuals who are
particularly enthusiastic about ‘the Court,’
plays a significant role on this campus.”

Rinker cites the self-selection process as a
particular strength of the eating houses. “By hav-
ing eating houses unique to Davidson it brings
something special for those who choose to partici-
pate. Without a doubt, it brings a bit more flexibil-
ity.

and it

Gardner agreed. “It did make it harder to
choose a house, but it also made it a far more
relaxed and positive experience. I think all the
girls were pretty happy with where they ended
up.

“Over-consumption”

While the evening was characterized by nearly
all involved as an overwhelming success, it was
not without some crises.

“It was a safe, positive evening,” said Dean
of Students’ Tom Shandley. “But I don’t want to
minimize the fact that two students required medi-
cal attention for over-consumption. Any time a
student goes to the hospital because of over-
consumption that’s a serious matter.”

Despite a popular presentation on alcohol-
associated risks by. Judge Vic Fleming on Thurs-
day evening, anumber of students fell illon Friday
night. Two students were treated and released

MLK speakers discuss
education and civil rights

Laura McCANDLISH AND SETH Davis
Staff Writer and News Editor

Children’s education and the impact of the
Civil Rights movement were issues presented in
Davidson’s Martin Luther King Observance 2000,
with the theme “The Dream Realized: ACommu-
nity in Action.” _

The MLK Day celebration began last fall
with student support of a SGA petition. After the
SGA passed a resolution to have the celebration
the matter of planning was passed to Dean Ernest
Jeffries and the King Day Committee. This com-
mittee, composed of students, faculty, and staff set
out the plan for the day in conjunction with the
Public Lectures Committee.

“Tt was fantastic,” says SGA President Foster
Haselden of student response to the MLK Day
celebration.

Dean Jeffries agrees. The King Day Com-
mittee had worried that pedple wouldn’t come to
the events. When asked about the effectiveness of
the celebration, Dean Jeffries replied by saying “I
have no complaints . .. this was the pinnacle so far
for MLK Day celebrations at Davidson” says
Dean Jeffries.

Davidson’s two-day celebration began on
Sunday, January 16, when.Dr. Jerry Cannon of

C.N. Jenkins Presbyterian Church lead a MLK
Worship Service and gospel songfest. Music was
also a part of the Unity Prayer breakfast the next
morning as the Davidson Generals sang and Rev.
James Howell of the Davidson United Methodist
Church spoke.

Children were the focus of the midday. activi- ,

ties on campus. Davidson volunteers cleaned up
the basement of Ada Jenkins Community Center,
which functions as a day care and after school
center for many community children. Later in the
day Davidson students Jeremy Campbell and Britta
Toleman spoke with Davidson children about Dr.
King. The children also participated in an art
project.

A series of seminars filled much of MLK
Day. Covering topics from the “Music of the Civil
Rights Movement” to “Why was Dr. King suchan
Effective Léader?,” these seminars informed in-
terested students. :

Ata candlelight vigil sponsered by Into the
Streets, community members joined with English
professor Brenda Flanagan, who read from King’s
famous “I Have a Dream” speech. |

This year’s Reynolds Lecturer, Dr. Marian
Wright Edelman, the founder of the National

See MLK day, page 2

1 80 first-year v women self-selected on n Friday.

from a local hospital.

“It isn’t a big leap from being so intoxicated.

that yowean’t function to being in a dangerous or
fatal situation,” said Shandley. “That's why we
don’t hesitate to contact medical professionals.”

A New Sheriff in Town

A swarm of law enforcement officials de-
scended upon Davidson Friday night in a con-
certed effort to keep such incidents to a minimum.
According to Director of Public Safety Sam
McKelvey, ten campus safety officers were on
duty that night. But they received some unex-
pected backup in the form of the North Carolina
Alcohol Law Enforcement Division (ALE).

The ALE was not summoned to Davidson by
campus: officials. nor officers, according to
Shandley. Instead, the Dean of Students explained,
the alcohol agents were summoned to an_off-
campus party to assist Davidson town police offic-
ers. But while at that scene, an ALE officer
monitoring emergency radio frequencies over-
heard transmission about a student suffering from
an acute medical condition brought on by alcohol

Photo courtesy of Page Neubert.

consumption. The agent and his team reportedly
arrived on Patterson Court shortly thereafter. At
least four other students later reported receiving
citations from the ALE officers. One told The
Davidsonian that she was wrongfully detained in
an agent’s car for approximately one hour.

In a separate incident, Connor House was
closed at approximately 10:00 after a speaker fire
disabled the party’s sound system, according to
McKelvey.

Connor member Gretchen Hamm described,
“Everyone was having so much fun, no one even
noticed that the music stopped and the speaker was
smoking.” McKelvey explained that a campus
police officer successfully extinguished the fire
before Davidson fire officers arrived on the scene.

Despite the mishaps most reactions to the
night were positive, First-year’ student Lauren
Daniel said, “There was a lot of hype about self:
selection night, but it really lived up to all of it. It
was great!”

PiKA member Dan Boritt agreed, “The fresh-
men said they had the best time they’ ve had all

ear and everyone else had a great time too.”

A Winter Wonderland!

STAFF BOX ..
EDITORIALS. i

|
ye l

OPINIONS......... fayeceapeareviies
SPORTS 5,505: ‘il sdbeaucasy taagiess

First Class Mail
U.S. Postage Paid
Permit #1
Davidson, NC 28036

tO

