BY ANDY LANOHA
Staff Writer

It ain’t over ‘til the fat lady sings.” Or; there
is the ever thought provoking, “It ain’t over
‘til its over.” Whatever your favorite “never

say die” cliché is, the Davidson Men’s soccer _.

team proved its truth last Thursday night.
With only 19 seconds to play, Davidson’s Pat
Miller headed in acorner kick that evened the
match at 2-2 and set the stage for a thrilling 3-
2 sudden death victory over the Charlotte
49ers.

Junior forward
Chris Norbet put
in the game win-
ner just three min-
utes into the over-
time period.
“Once we got that
second goal, we
knew they were gonna die,” recalled Norbet

That final goal, Norbet’s second of the
season, not only ended Davidson’s six year
losing streak against Charlotte, but also
brought Coach Charlie Slagle his 200" career
victory.

“Coming from behind against one of our
biggest rivals, it was an exciting way to get
200.” Slagle furthered, “It is a nice mile-
stone, another notch in the longevity belt and
another ice bucket on the back.”

Though it ended blissfully, the ‘Cats opened
the contest falling behind by two goals. The
49ers’ Juan Munoz-Airey opened the scoring
in the ninth minute. He hit a low-hard shot
from outside the penalty box that deflected
into the corner past Davidson’s keeper Soren

Johnson. Chris Wargin added to that lead just
six minutes later capitalizing on a counter
attack that left Davidson’s defense out-num-
bered and out of position. Despite their best
efforts to come back, Davidson found them-
selves trailing by two at the half.

“We were playing to play well and not to

John Tetirick helped spark the
‘Cats comeback

win” recalled coach Slagle. “At half, I told
the guys that they were going to have to play

“more aggressively in the back and that we

were going to have to risk losing in order to
win.” .

Slagle’s team listened and came out witha
new aggression in the second half. Junior
forward Justin

rY

Men’s Soccer wins thriller, Coach Slagle picks up win #200

right to my head and I just re-directed it
toward the goal.” Saunder’s recalled. “After
that goal, our energy level shot up... we were
ready to dig inand fight for the win. We knew
that we were going to have to score again for
[the goal] to mean anything” ;

In the final minute, the ‘Cats got their last
chance to fight for the win on corner kick

: from the right side. “I saw 42 seconds on the
clock so I sprinted over to take the kick. I

looked over and Slagle called the play—an
outswinger to Buehler,” said midfeilder Eric
Ozimeck. Ozimeck hit the corner to a streak-
ing Buehler who had beatenhis man. Buehler
headed it toward the back post where senior
defender Pat Miller was waiting. “I just
wanted to frame the goal,” explained Miller.
“IT know Buehler can win 95% of the balls in
the air, so I wanted to put myself in a position
to finish . .. When I saw the ball inthe air, I
knew I was just going to have to change its
direction and put it in.”

From this point on, it was only a matter of
time. “Once we scored that goal, I knew we
were going to win that game.. We won every
50-50 ball in overtime. It was an awesome
team effort,” said Ozimeck.

Norbet ensured the victory just three min-
utes into the first overtime period, when he
headed home a goal that was assisted by
freshman Justin Porter and

Saunders started
the comeback in
the 70° minute
heading home a
Jon Teterick shot. “The ball bounced out to
Teterick on the top of the box and I ran for the

back post to cover a rebound. Teterick hit it

“Tt was an awesome team effort.”

Ozimeck. Norbet recalled,
“Porter got it out left and sent
a good ball into Oz. Oz vol-
leyed it back across to me,
behind the defense. I knew that if I beat the
keeper to the ball,all would have to do was get
ahead on it. You see so many goals like that,

if you can beat the keeper to ball and keep it —
on frame it is going to go in.”

Davidson may be taking some increased
confidence out of their comeback victory.
Ozimeck commented, “I have played for sev-
eral championship teams and I know that the
teams that fight back are the teams that do
well in the end,”

“The comeback means a lot. We learned,

Eric Ozimeck

defensively, to be more aggressive and we
are learning how to become more dangerous
with our possession play,” coach Slagle ex-
plained.

The Wildcats square off against highly
touted UNC Chapel Hill at 7:00 on Tuesday,
September 12 before their home opener
against Virginia Tech at 7:00 on Friday, Sep-
tember 15 at Richardson Stadium. Hope-
fully, Davidson will take their greater confi-
dence into these games, finally beleiving that
“where there’s a will, . . .”

Free Food and
Free Music
RAIN OR SHINE

Saturday, September 16th at 6:00p.m.
: behind Vail Commons

Dinner and the music of Gran
Torino provided by the Union Board
and Patterson Court Council —

‘ (Rain location: Dinner in Chambers Gallery
and Gran Torino in Love Auditorium)

Have you thought of joining the
Wildcat Pep Band?

Hmmmm...

4

(This guy is
way too calm
to be in the’
Pep Band)

I'll have good seats at the basketball games,
I'll enjoy pizza and soda during breaks’
I'll express my Davidson pride in close

proximity to the visitor's hench,
Til plan on going to the SoCo Tourney...

For these and many other reasons, come out to our

First Rehearsal, dinner included.

4

Please R.S.V.P.
Wednesday, Sept. 20"
Cunningham Band Room 6:00 P.M.

Contact Ken Davis, director, (704) 663-1538

Anyone with musical talent can be part of our team.
Forgot your instrument? Play one of ours!
