THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 2000 7

International
: ple athe Pom eae Od 4 a
IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR:

East Timor. In an emotionally charged visit to a massacre, site in the small nation,
United Nations secretary-general Kofi Annan promised that the organization was
committed to rebuilding the shattered territory. The UN mns an interim administra-
tion in East Tmor while the country struggles to recover from a wave of violence that
devastated it after the vote.

Yasser Arafat. The leader of Palestine signed an accord with the Vatican, which
warns Israel that unilateral decisions on the status of Jerusalem are “morally and
legally unacceptable.”

Russia. The secretary-general of NATO, George Robertson, visited the nation and
made an announcement which effectually resumed Russia's ties with NATO. Ties
between the two parties had been severed during NATO's war in Kosovo.

Cameroon. The nation won the African Cup of Nations 2000, Africa's prestigious
soccer tournament, when it beat favorite Nigeria in a thrilling and controversial final.

Belk 007.

Looking for summer housing?
Applications for On-campus housing will be
available March 1°" in RLO, Belk 007.

Applications accepted until April 15" on first-
ai come, first-serve basis provided all criteria are met.
Questions, call Judy Klein at x2341, or stop by

IT WAS A BAD WEEK FOR:

Humanitarian aid to Iraq. This week saw the resignation of Hans Von Sponeck,
the top UN official coordinating humanitarian aid to the stricken country. Jutta
Burghardt, the head of the World Food Program in Iraq resigned as well. Both came
under pressure following comments blaming the United States and Britain for the
failure of the oil-for-food program in Iraq.

Bangladesh. A nation-wide strike turned violent when 40 homemade bombs ex-
ploded in the capital city of Dhaka. The strike is the latest in.a series called by
opposition parties to force an early general election.

President Kim Dae Jung. The South Korean leader upset several of his people when
he said that Kim Jong Il, the communist leader of North Korea, was a man of
“considerable judgement and knowledge.” The two divided countries remain for-
mally at war.

General Wiranto. The former Indonesian armed forces commander was officially
suspended from the cabinet pending an inquiry into his role in the massacres that
occurred in East Timor last year.

Ecuador. The new government sent a bill to Congress to replace their national
currency with the dollar. However, indigenous groups whose protests brought down
the previous government for a similar course of action, threatened to oppose this
move as well.

President Robert Mugabe. After more than 20 years, Zimbabweans finally voted
against the president. In a referendum, the majority of the country vetoed a plan to
amend the constitution to allow Mugabe to stay in power for an additional 10 years.

Work in Davidson
This Summer

Summer Employment in

The Library ~

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer
workers. Positions are available in all departments.

7 i : Interested Students should
Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332
