Tae Davmsonian _

The (Other) Zogby Poll: Choosing sides (it’s what we do be

By Joy Gerpy AND Matr ZocBy

Sraff \ Writers

In the beginning there was Optimus Prime,
and it was good, but now with great sadness
we embark on our final (Other) Zogby Poll.
Throughout our illustrious career, we have
held onto a political theme with our poll.

This week, however, we decided to use the
(Other) Zogby Poll as a litmus test to decide
the worth of the Davidson community. There-
fore, without further ado, we present you with
the (Other) Zogby Poll’s TOTALLY RAD
AND TUBULAR CHOOSING SIDES END-
OF-THE-YEAR EXTRAVAGANZA!

Our first big category dealt with the world
of music. We chose a few infamous rivalries
which hold places close to our hearts. Our
first choice was difficult one: Michael Jack-
son or Prince? However, we are pleased to
report that the King of Pop prevailed in this
clash of light-skinned titans. Despite the fact
that MJ hasn’t had a hit in the U.S: in years,
he remains a god on the international scene
and among Davidson’s elite.

Also popular in Europe and certainly just
as much of a “Thriller,” the next choice,
Backstreet Boys vs. NSYNC, came down to
a single vote. After the first tally, your
esteemed pollsters were disturbed by the fact

Red bike program expands

By Matt GARFIELD
News Editor

Getting around campus will become a little
easier next semester, thanks to two civic-
minded Davidson students and about 20 red
bicycles.

Robert McKeehan ’01 and Bobby Pittenger
‘02 thought providing bikes would be a good
way to help students travel.

The idea isn’t a new one; several two-
wheelers are currently in racks across cam-
pus as part of the “Red Bike” program. But
because most are rickety and in disrepair,
students rarely utilize them.

That’s where McKeehan and Pittenger
come in. Earlier this semester, they started a
campaign to revive the project.

On Tuesday night, that plan came to life
when the SGA alotted $2,100 dollars for the
purchase of the bicycles. College president
Bobby Vagt and Dean of Students Tom
Shandley also agreed to contribute together

more than $1,400.

Pending approval of the Activities Tax
Council, the bikes—complete with fresh red
paint and kickstands— should be ready to roll
shortly after students return for second se-
mester, but not before Pittenger and
McKeehan mount a campus-wide ad cam-
paign to build support for the idea.

“We want to make things more convenient
for the student body, said Pittenger. “This is
a tangible thing to show that the SGA is
helping students.”

Added McKeehan: “The cool thing is that
it should help everyone—faculty, staff, and
students—not just one group.”

SGA President Dane Erickson said the
bikes will provide more than just conve-
nience.

“Not only does it provide a service to the
students, but it also brings the community
together because it’s something we’re all a
part of,” he said.

that NSYNC was in the lead, that is, until we
remembered that we had not yet voted. Being
diehard A.J..McLean fans, we feel that BSB

has it “goin’ on,” and as the fine (and by that -

we mean good-looking) pop culture analysts
we are, we’re proud to have tipped the scales
in their favor.

Celine Dion vs. a rock is next, and it is
important to realize that “a rock” is not “the
Rock.” Unlike Celine Dion, howéver, the
rock swears no allegiance to Canada. That
being said, it comes as no surprise that the
miscellaneous rock won against Celine Dion.
We think it just goes to show that Davidsonians
can only stomach so many painful romantic
ballads and marriages to creepy old men.
(Incidentally, one of Matt’s life goals is to
destroy Celine Dion and cash in on the lucra-
tive sale of commemorative plates which
would undoubtedly ensue.)

Alas, our hearts will go on, and so will we.
Now for the question on everyone’s mind,
Playstation 2 or life itself? Life itself won in
a landslide, but we feel that this might have to
do with the fact that a lot of people have yet
to play the super computer. Also keep in
mind life itself cannot launch missiles, and if
Playstation 2 were to launch a missile, it has
the potential to destroy life itself, so behave.

Now we come to a very important part of
our poll; it is the question that drives us all.

~ UNC or Duke? It was aclose race, but we are

happy to report, in a very unbiased way, that
UNC has come out ahead, and more impor-
tantly, Duke has lost. Go iron your head,
Battier. Coincidentally, it turns out good has
triumphed over evil.

Bobby Vagt has had mixed results fromthe —

Davidson community. It seems support for
the Big Cat lies somewhere between God (the
Supreme Being) and Josef “Uncle Joe” Stalin,
which is probably where he should be.
Another Davidson-related question in-

volves athletic fanaticism at basketball games. —
It pits the Davidson cheerleaders against the
Pines. Opé Would normally associate ex-
cited, loud, dedicated, glad-to-be-alive-and-
at-the-game fans in red and black with cheer-
leaders, Hut the Davidson community says
that its the town’ s retirees that have the super
spirit. You know what those cheerleaders
need? The perfect cheer.

It is often said that college students are
apathetic to the outside world. We have.
found that to be the case when it comes to
choosing between ‘saving the Outpost and
saving the whales. The Outpost won hands-
down. “In fact, I think we should have whale
steak...at the Outpost,” said Sean O’Reilly
°04. It seems that the plight of the largest
mammal on earth is not so large in compari-
son to the fate of Papa D and his faithful band
of merry men.

There remains only one question to be
answered, and it alone* has decided the. fate
of the (Other) Zogby Poll. This week we
asked the age-old question: Joy or Matt?

_ Although by the numbers Joy won, Matt

disputed these results on the basis that Joy did
most of the polling.

The question had seemed simple and funny
at the time; we had no idea that its results
would cause what many would call an “old-
fashioned brawl.” Temperatures rose, chairs
flew, cursing abound. A Magic 8 ball was
consulted, but we were too impatient to wait
and.“TRY AGAIN LATER,” so we con-
sulted the Playstation 2 that said it didn’t
want to get involved (so we unplugged the
damn thing).

Anyway, because of irreconcilable differ-
ences, the (Other) Zogby Poll is no more.

*It has nothing to do with the fact that
we’re going abroad.

CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES

“Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!”

| From now. until December 14th
you can pay for your Library fines and
1OUs with cans of food which will be

given to needy in our area.

‘

WHERE Library Circulation Desk |

HOW: One can of food will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines or lOUs
(e.g., for five cans of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines).

