The truth about “compassionate conservatism”: What the Bush campaign won’t tell you

‘By Josu CraFr AND ALEX MASSENGALE
Columnists

If the sky falls, don’t blame us. Our country
is jumping on Bush’s conservative railroad

tracks preparing to get run over. This literally

threatens to-derail the progress of the last 8
years. Bush paints himself as a moderate, but
his actual policies and record suggest some-
thing quite different. But you know the basics
about abortion, Social Security, Medicare,
and tax cuts. Let us examine a few lesser-
known potential Bush disasters.

First, let us all take a deep breath and

picture a court chock full of Clarence -

Thomases and Antonin Scalias. These two
reactionary numbskulls believe in the return
to so-called “strict constructionism”’ that Bush
touts. What this actually means is a period of
the judicial activism that conservatives so
often decry. They have already struck down
portions of the Violence Against Women’s
Act and legislation that helps disabled work-
ers, because these policies apparently inter-
fere with “states rights” and the principles of
federalism. -

And it doesn’t stop there. If the new conser-
vative justices revive strict constructionism,
a host of meaningful programs that seek
social justice and an end to discrimination
will be struck down. With just two more
justices in the Scalia and Thomas mold, the
Supreme Courts decision in Romer v. Evans
would be overturned and even the most basic
protections for sexual minorities would be
eliminated. The court would allow the gov-
ernment to favor religion, most notably Chris-
tianity, and would mark a return to such
egregious violations of the spirit of “freedom
of religion” as school prayer and the posting
of the Ten Commandments in schools. Addi-

tionally, a Scalia-Thomas court would hold |

up all major campaign finance regulations on
the grounds that they violate the first amend-
ment.
In favor of gun control? Don’t let Bush’s
" moderate act fool you. Under his administra-
tion in Texas, Bush was little more than a tool
of the NRA. As governor of Texas, in 1995
Bush signed an NRA-backed bill repealing
Texas’ concealed weapons ban, in 1997 he
signed a bill allowing guns to be carried into
churches and synagogues, and in 1999 he
signed legislation granting gun makers pro-
tection from lawsuits.

Agree with Bush’s statement that we need
enforcement of current gun laws? In March
of this year The Wall Street Journal wrote
that under his administration Texas “rarely
pursued violations of gun laws”. In fact,
under this strong proponent of law and order,
Texas did not turn a single one of the 2,658
gun owners whose applications for a con-
cealed weapons permit were denied over to
federal prosecutors. A Bush presidency
coupled with a supreme court packed with
clones of Scalia and Thomas would reverse
all of the progress our country has made in
this important realm.

Governor Bush also presents an entirely
inadequate agenda for preserving our envi-
ronment. But we’ ll focus on one particularly
frightening omission in Bush’s policy. The
New York Times reported that the Intergov-
ernmental Panel for Climate Change, the
largest and most reliable group of scientists
and climatologists, reported that human in-
fluence from fossil fuel emissions is the main
cause in the warming of the earth. Naval
submarines report that glaciers and ice layers
are much thinner than they were 40 years ago.
The Earth could warm by as much as 11
degrees in the next century. And yet Gover-
nor Bush contests that we should wait and see
because the science is still somehow uncer-
tain.

Delay is not an option when your cities
could go underwater from sea level rise and
your people could starve because all their
crops have died out. The only way to curb
climate change is for the Senate to ratify the
Kyoto Protocol and aggressively promote
alternative energy sources and energy effi-
ciency, as Vice President Gore intends to do.

Governor Bush’s policy on nuclear weap-
ons is inexcusable. Bush’s only stated policy
on nuclear weapons has been that he would
“never do anything to put the nation at risk”
. Whatever that means. First, there is the issue
of missile defense. The Business Times re-
ported on September 6, 2000 that Bush would
rush to build a national missile defense sys-

_ tem that has yet to prove itself workable. Not

only would this system be expensive and
ineffective, it would provoke China to ex-
pand its nuclear arsenal because its leaders
fear that the system is partially directed at
them.

If China makes such a move, an arms race
could ensue in the Asian Peninsula that could

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

EDITORS-IN

Aaron Houck
rard Vinson
i "Tim, Cook

_.sPéter Elark
David Jolinston
; Anna Kaqnviy
co Matt Ge etd
+ IE-Folettiie

SPetier.C Pel

i a

.
UOTT

AVIG (0)
on

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. htm!

draw India, Pakistan, North Korea, Japan, -
and China into nuclear confrontations. Not a
comforting thought, eh? And Mr. Bush would
not push the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty,
desperately needed to prevent worldwide pro-

_ liferation and to reaffirm America’s commit-

ment to nuclear arms control. A Bush presi-
dency could push us to the brink of nuclear
catastrophe. |

Sp if swimming through the streets of New

WEDNESDAY,
NoveMBER I, 2000

York, observing the effects of the nuclear
winter, while the people around you are wav-
‘ing handguns in your face, and your wonder-
ful Supreme Court is repealing your right to
privacy and equal protection sounds like fun,
by all means vote for George W. Bush. We
suggest that you vote for Mr. Gore, not risk
your life, and hope for some positive changes.
You have been warned. Please choose
wisely...

‘nor an announcement of their in- <<“

’ Davidson is a small school, but it

| of the candidates will bother.

Internet will not cure
students’ ignorance

Internet voting may make election easier,
but it will not solve Davidson’s low voter

turnout. This is because the problem is not —

that voting is too inconvenient. Electoral
volunteers could go up to each student indi-
vidually and ask them which candidate they
preferred, and these volunteers likely would
receive only a shrug.
- Davidson SGA elections are not the result
of apathy, laziness, or even time constraints,
but of ignorance. The average Davidson
student does not know all of the candidates,
much less the quality of their character or
their positions on local issues. There is no
official debate between candidates —
tentions in SGA, and
Davidsonian and Libertas make
no attempt to cover the elections.

is still large enough that SGA can-
not expect the student population to
be personally familiar with every candidate;
to expect it of the freshman class is absolutely
ludicrous.

Since I’ve been at Davidson, I’ve seen
nothing to inform me of the SGA candidates
besides sidewalk chalk imperatives to vote
for each of them. I myself have never voted
in a Davidson election and do not intend to in
the near future. If I did, I would have nothing
on which to base my decision besides whose
name I liked best. ;

One question I have long wondered, how-
ever, is why this is treated as such a negative
thing. If I voted, it would be a vote cast in
ignorance, and the SGA is encouraging me to
do so.

decision based on a thorough knowledge of
the candidates, but barring this, what sense
does it make to facilitate the voting process?

- The easier the voting process is, the greater

the number of people who will vote. If the
voting process is arduous, however, only
those with strong opinions and a knowledge
Are these
elections truly enriched by the increased par-
ticipation of uninformed voters, or are they
best left to those who know about them and
care about their outcome?

Before I see a multitude of anonymous
fliers denouncing me as an elitist, I am not
saying that only the educated or a select few
should be permitted to vote. What I am
suggesting is a test of commitment. Those
.who lack the initiative to follow through are
unlikely to have had the initiative to have
researched the candidates, so why encourage
their votes? Voter registration should be-

Obviously it would best if all of ©
Davidson’s students could make an educated .

come at least as arduous as obtaining a driver’s
license, so that we can be certain that the
votes cast in an election will be cast by
citizens with a genuine concern for the out-
come.

Jack Zulkey ‘03

Pitts reponds to critics

I write in response to the two rebuttals
concerning my original letter about the writ-
ing on the Outpost walls.

Roshan Paul and Aaron Sundstrom: You
have every right to argue the issues of free
speech and religious expression concerning
the writing on the Outpost walls, but you do
not have the authority to make personal at-

tacks on me or my beliefs.
Roshan, who gave you the right
to question anyone’s “strength of
belief about God?” Where do you
get off undermining other students’
spirituality? By trashing my belief
in God, you deny your self-pro-
claimed ideology of acceptance
and paint yourself a hypocrite.

Aaron, in no way are George W. Bush and
I in any sort of agreement concerning sus-
pending free speech or freedom of religion.
Did you bother to ask my positions on issues
other than the Outpost? Do you even know
for sure my political orientation? No! I was
never contacted for your article. Instead, you
concocted slanderous remarks about my be-
liefs that have no factual foundation.

Libertas: lam proud to have brought down

_ your Campus Mental Atmosphere. “Libertas

could only wish for such efficacy.” You said

- it yourselves. And for the record, unlike you,

I do not find the assault of beliefs to be a joke
of any kind.

Your tactics of trying to degrade a fresh-
man to prove your misguided points are not
working. My sincere hope is that the student
body does not buy into your slander and
mischaracterizations. You. call me a funda-
mentalist; you call me an extremist. Regard-
less, I refuse to stand idle while college re-
sources are used to assault the beliefs of

_ Students in a public building. It’s not that the

comment in the Outpost is wrong or that the
person chose to express a dislike in “God’s
followers.” What is wrong is the location of
the work.

I don’t care if the writing on the Outpost.
walls stated, “Mohammed save me from your
followers,” I still remain adamantly opposed
to attacks on personal and religious beliefs
when expressed in the public area of a school
that tries to promote religious diversity on
campus. For us to move towards a more

continued on opposite page
