Could the Internet combat student apathy?

Pundits and politicians are constantly dis-.
cussing the phenomenon of low voter turn-
out. Many assert that voters are, as a rule,
apathetic and uninformed.

In their defense, there is a common per-
ception that all politicians are crooks and
that elections make no difference anyway.
The federal, state, and even local govern-
ments seem like distant entities. What con-
ceivable influence could one vote have on
the workings of a faceless state?

By that reasoning, as the size of acommu-
nity decreases and the visibility of officials
increases, voter participation should rise.

Anyone who believes that has obviously
never witnessed a student election at David-
son.

If we may be permitted to generalize, the
average Davidson student knows and cares
nothing about the college’s electoral pro-
cess. ;

She cannot distinguish between Category
I and Category II elections and has no idea
when they are held. He probably does not
bother to vote, and if he does, the responsi-
bilities of the different offices hold no sig-
nificance for him. After she has cast her
vote, the names of those selected fade out of
memory. ,

Worse yet, this trend worsens the longer
students stay at Davidson.

The following statistics illustrate this point.
They give voter turnout by class for the two
days of our most recent elections.

First day: freshmen — 69.9%, sophomores
— 37.2%, juniors — 30.8%.

Second day: freshmen — 59.7%, sopho-
mores — 23.7%, juniors — 23.2%

Second day elections for the freshmen
and sophomores were run-offs, while, due to
a procedural error, the second day for jun-
iors was the actual election.

These numbers are appalling, but they
represent a fairly consistent pattern. The
SGA and the Elections Council have given
up hope of raising these results through
conventional methods and are looking for
new ways to make voting even easier.

Their latest plan envisions an Internet
voting system for all student elections. To
quote from a proposal submitted by the
Elections CounciltoITS, “This system would
supply the voting ballot to individual David-
son students and then tally the results, keep-
ing both names and ballots in separate files,

thus ensuring a secret ballot.”

Suchasystem would achieve several goals.
First, it would make the voting process simple
and convenient, since most students could
vote from the comfort and pavery of their
own rooms.

Second, it would save the SGA and the

. Honor Council countless man-hours of sit-
ting at tables, hoping in vain for voters to
wander by. :

Finally, Internet voting would provide
instant and accurate results with virtually no
possibility of human error. Instead of hav-
ing to tally the votes by hand froni computer
printouts, the Election Council could simply
check over a few figures and announce the
winners.

Unfortunately, this plan made it no farther
than the ITS bureaucracy. Despite an SGA
resolution and frequent entreaties from the
Elections Council, the Banner Team Lead-
ers have designated Internet voting a non-
priority.

While we understand that ITS is currently
understaffed and must pick and choose from
among countless programming requests, we
fail to see why they consider student elec-
tions non-essential.

We freely admit that those on the ITS staff
are experts, and we are not equipped to
challenge their judgment on technical mat-
ters. However, choice of priorities is an
administrative decision and should reflect
this school’s priorities, including a respon-
sible student government and an active stu-
dent body. Internet voting would certainly
promote both these. interests.

Should the ITS staff relent and agree to
institute Internet voting, that would only be
one step towards curing Davidson’s elec-
toral apathy. The Elections Council in par-
ticular and the SGA Senate in general could
do a better job publicizing the elections and
educating the student body.

Moreover, if students themselves took an
interest in their elections, they would see
immediate results.

An email to a representative or a letter to
the administration would go a long way
towards improving the electoral process.

But, chances are, if you are a student, you
don’t care anyway.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors-in- chief

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERFAS ¢

pe B1. : 7 «Aaron Houck
eae Rich d Vinson
ee ml "Tia, Cook
- “Péter @lark
David‘Yolinsten
Ama arivig
* So.Matt Gatfietd
“SSE Poletittive
SV Peter-Charkt
) Dawid Johns Rr
ce: Davidson,
Wi sea oo

EDITORS=1 “IN

Erin Berry

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html :

Vermont exemplifies the es

strengths of American system

Founders envisioned
protection from
“tyranny of majority”

- I am writing in response to Khoury
Ashooh’s essay entitled “Whither Vermont,
whither the United States?” (The Davidsonian,
October 18).

Iagree with Mr. Ashooh that judges should
not “legislate” by misinterpreting the law in
order to promote their own agendas. Never-
theless, I believe that the unchecked popular
rule he favors violates key American consti-
tutional principles. While this country’s
founders regarded the people’s will as central
to free republican government, they also real-
ized that popular majorities could act tyranni-
cally at times. They therefore sought to place
checks, although not absolute checks, on
popular rule.

One of those checks lies in representative
government itself. James Madison,
the “father” of the Constitution,
hoped that representative gov-

dom for recognizing the fallibility of the
popular will and for providing important
checks on it. Minorities, all who are rela- °
tively powerless, and the cause of justice
itself are the better because of it.
Dr. J. Russell Snapp,
Associate Professor of History

Civil unions suffer little
popular disapproval

In his article about civil unions and the
state of Vermont, Khoury Ashooh misrepre-
sents the “will of the people” of Vermont.

He claims that there is a widespread
grassroots movements against civil unions,
but he skews the facts. He claims that 5 out
of 10 Republicans were defeated in their
primaries because he or she voted for civil
unions.

But review of the GLAD website

(www.glad.org) reveals that
Mr. Ashooh didn’t get all the
\ facts straight. In fact, enly 9

ernment in a large, diverse
republic would “refine and
enlarge the public views, by
passing them through the
medium of a chosen body of
citizens, whose wisdom may
best discern the true interest of
their country, and whose patrio-

tism and love of justice will be least likely to
sacrifice it to temporary or partial consider-
ations.” (The Federalist, #10).

Perhaps Vermont’s legislature exempli-
fied such government when it promoted state-
wide funding for school districts and when it
sanctioned gay and lesbian civil unions.

In any case, as Mr. Ashooh suggests, the
representative system offers a very weak
check on popular rule since legislators may
easily be voted out of office.

Republicans were targeted and
of those 5 who lost nomina-
tions, one will be running as a
Democrat and one will be run-
ning as an independent. All 4
Democrats targeted retained
their nomination, and one -
Democrat who voted against
civil unions lost his nomination.

’ This is far from a blaring rejection of civil
unions by the public in Vermont, and Repub-
lican primaries have never been havens for
the rights of sexual minorities. The real test
will come in the upcoming. elections on
whether the public is truly opposed to civil
unions.

What an analysis of the facts shows is that
Mr. Ashooh is angered by a development that
he dislikes (civil unions) and desires to be in

potential
check .on
popular rule. While they derive from the
people, constitutions embody fundamental
laws that even legislative majorities cannot
easily violate. Some of these laws are meant
to protect basic civil rights that apply to
minorities as well as majorities. As our
system of government has developed,
unelected judges have logically become the
guardians of these fundamental laws.

One might well argue that the Vermont
Supreme Court, in adjudicating particular
cases, was rightly interpreting the state con-
stitution as mandating justice and equality for
impoverished students and for citizens who
happen to be gay or lesbian.

Ultimately, of course, the popular will can
prevail through amending the constitution, if
that will is strong enough.

Nevertheless, I praise the founders’ wis-

T hie the majority
founders re- As Mr. Ashooh suggests, the representative sys- 11 his opin-
: garded con- tem offers a very weak check on popular rule. The “™.
stitutions ws ie His “will :
themselves founders regarded constitutions themselves as a o¢ the
as a stronger Stronger potential check on popular rule. people” per-

petuates re-
pression of
sexual minorities by an intolerant majority.
There is no legitimate reason to oppose civil
unions for gays and lesbians and Mr. Ashooh
presents none.

The institution of civil unions acknowl-
edges that gays and lesbians live together in
normal, healthy monogamous relationships
and they want that to be recognized by the
general public.

We should be proud that the legislators i in
Vermont are progressive enough to fight
against the forces of bigotry. Only by stand-
ing up to homophobia can mindsets be
changed. We fear the day when the very
government entrusted with protecting the
rights of all citizens, give in to Mr. Ashooh’s
“will of the people.”

Josh Craft ’04
Alex Massengale ’04
