Whither Vermont, whither the United

Stanley Kurtz, adjunct senior fellow at the
public policy research organization Hudson
Institute, recently predicted that the state of
Vermont has become “a window onto the
future of the culture wars” in the United
States. Kurtz is referring to the widespread
grassroots effort that has taken hold across
Vermont as a result of the feeling that the
government in recent years has ignored the
will of the people.

The role of the judicial system in America
should not include an ability to legislate. Yet
in Vermont, it seems that the Supreme Court
has become a legislating body in all but name.
In 1997, the Court decided that public school
funding was being controlled in an unconsti-
tutional way, i.e. by local governments. The
ruling implied that the Court saw a need for a
new funding system that would ensure equal-

ity for all districts. Consequently, the Ver-’

mont legislature passed the disliked Act 60,
which enacted a statewide property tax to
fund schools. In late 1999, the Court decided
that homosexuals deserved marriage in ev-
erything but name. Again, the legislature was
pressured by the Court into passing a new
law, and it hastily passed the unpopular civil
unions law, which went into effect on July 1“.

In Vermont, the people are not necessarily
upset with the issues and the new laws per se
as much as they are upset with how the laws
were steamrolled through without the con-

sent of the citizenry. Vermont, like ink
areas of northern New England, is a land
traditionally known for the rugged individu-
alism and libertarianism of its people
(Vermont’s motto is “Freedom and Unity”).
These two rulings and subsequent laws exac-
erbated the feeling among traditional Ver-
monters that government is too invasive in
local affairs. Though the Supreme Court
justices are not elected, the legislators are,
and they ignored the will of the people. In
these cases, the will of the people was against

the will of the people. Both of these laws
should be repealed because they do not re-
flect the will of the people.

These grassroots groups targeted many pro-
civil unions legislators for defeat in the pri-
mary election. Specifically, ten Republican
civil unions supporters were targeted for de-
feat, and five have been defeated so far in the
primary. The pro-civil unions governor,
Democrat Howard Dean, is facing perhaps
his toughest reelection challenge yet, from
civil unions opponent Republican Ruth

a new school Dwyer. The
funding system challenges pro-
and over- Though the Supreme Court justices are civil unions
whelmingly _ not elected, the legislators are, and they politicians are
against civil ignored the will of the people. facing thiselec-
unions. tion cycle show

The not =r eee ist how disen-
widespread chanted Ver-

grassroots effort in Vermont comes from a
group called Take Back Vermont (tbvt.org).
This group seeks to take back Vermont from
the grip of the “arrogance of the [C]ourt,
legislative leaders, and the governor” and to
return it to the “average Vermonter.” An-
other group, Vermont Speaks (vtspeaks.org),
seeks similar ends, but it also seeks to enact
checks on “legislative [and judicial] arro-
gance and activism.” These groups, and
others, seek to repeal both Act 60 and the civil
unions law because both were passed against

monters are with their government for by-
passing their wishes. It appears that the
people of Vermont may succeed on Novem-
ber 7" in showing their Court and their politi-
cal leaders that their wishes must be consid-
ered. .
The United States as a whole would do well
to pay close attention to this election in Ver-
mont. Public school funding, civil unions for
gays and lesbians, and affirmative action are
just some of the controversial issues that are
currently in the national spotlight. Since it is

likely that the next i ga will pate

perhaps three Supreme Court justices, Stanley

Kurtz is probably right that Vermont is “a

window onto the future.” The choice of

justices could mean the difference between a

Court that seeks to uphold the Constitution ©
and a Court that seeks to implement what

Kurtz. calls leftist social experiments. The

civil unions issue is being considered in other

states right now, among them New York,

Rhode Island, and California, and a similar

disregard for popular opinion inthese places— -
in either ideological direction—could un-
leash a similar backlash against crusading
politicians.

Judges are supposed to determine the con-
stitutionality of laws, not determine which
laws they personally feel are unjust or unfair.
Legislators are supposed to make laws on
behalf of their constituents, not make laws
independent of them. Judges and legislators
across the United States should view the
developments in Vermont with interest, for
should they act as arrogant and disrespectful
as did their Vermont counterparts, the U.S.
too could become consumed by a widespread
grassroots effort to end legislating by judges
and by politicians who act without regard for
the people.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

from prior page

spiritual and moral counsel from those in-
volved.

Similarly, to imply that because RU-486 is
anon-surgical method of abortion, it is inher-
ently unsafe is to reveal a lack of understand-
ing about both it use as a drug and the restric-
tions imposed by the FDA.

The use of RU- 486 actually requires four
doctor

the health of women across America.
Brent Byars ‘04

Ashooh misrepresents
drug, women who use it

I would like to address the article in the Oct.
4" Davidsonian by Khoury Ashooh about
RU-486, the abortion pill recently approved

by the FDA. Though I

visits, all
of them Characterized by its opponents as a
impor- “quick-fix,” RU-486 insread brings abor-
rant te tion out of the dark alleyways of the past.
guaran-

1c 11 SRS aR gE PF IRS

t he
safety of the patient. The first visit is used to
assess whether the woman is actually preg-

nant, and in the first seven weeks of preg- -

nancy. An ultrasound is used to determine
whether the drug can be used effectively and
safely. In the next visit, the patient is given a
hormone that acts to break down the uterine
lining.

On the third visit, the patient is given an-
other hormone, similar to the one used to treat
certain digestive ailments. A few hours later,
the patient’s abortion is complete. This last
step is most controversial because in certain
cases, when a woman has easy access to
medical facilities, it can be performed at
home. However, to imply that the process is
similar to “normal menstruation” is to be
ignorant of the drug’s action. Women in trials
have described pain much greater that a nor-
mal menstrual period. And more impor-
tantly, the woman has to make yet another
doctor’s visit, to guarantee the good health of
the patient.

Far from making abortion more “conve-
nient,” the RU-486 process instead makes
abortion a less invasive procedure, with fewer
side effects and less risk for women. It, in
fact, requires more actual doctor-patient con-
tact than some other methods of terminating
a pregnancy.

Characterized by its opponents as a “quick-
fix” and a substitute for “a final, revered,
sacred choice,” RU-486 instead brings abor-

tion out of the dark alleyways of the past and

into recognition as a safer, less invasive, and
less painful alternative to surgical abortion,
and its approval, a 12 year affair, is good

=o  e e te ie ne a a ee eve

can certainly under-
stand the stance of pro-
life (or, if I were to use
Mr. Ashooh’s lan-
guage, anti-choice)
people, I cannot un-
derstand condemning
women for making a choice in such a nega-
tive, baiting tone. Mr. Ashooh’s article is
plain out wrong and misleading as well.

I would like to correct some of the wrong
statements that were presented in Ashooh’s
article.

This drug took seven years of review by the
FDA before it became legal. During those
seven years, the FDA was checking to make
sure that RU-486 was not harmful to women’s
health. The release of the drug was not met
with passivity, as it was dogged by lawsuits,
pickets, protest and furious debate through-
out the testing period.

Describing RU-486 as‘ ‘popping afew pills”
is hardly an accurate description of a process
that actually takes more planning and fore-
thought than surgical abortion.

Rather than one visit, the woman must see
adoctor 3 times over the course of two weeks,
first to make sure she is within the seventh
week of pregnancy, then to receive the pills,
and finally a check-up to assure that the

abortion actually took place. Thus a woman’

must take immediate responsibility to make
sure she is only seven weeks pregnant and go
through an arduous’ process to get an abor-
tion.

Instead of having to wait until the preg-
nancy is further along as with surgical abor-
tion, women who chose RU-486 are able to

‘abort earlier. RU-486 does not make abor-

tion easier because the women have an expe-
rience more like a miscarriage, and thus must
actually deal with the product of their bodies.

Mr. Ashooh also claims that RU-486 is
a causes many women to be ie.

‘ ing a baby to term is six times more likely to

kill a woman than having an abortion, either
surgically or medically. Only two percent of
women who took RU-486 had heavy bleed-
ing, a condition that is not extremely danger-
ous. There is no “safety” issue.

In France, where RU-486 has been avail-
able for a decade, the number of abortions has
not risen, so another option for women in the
U.S. will, in all likelihood, not increase the
number of abortions. Instead it will provide
women who would already be planning to get
a surgical abortion the option to abort earlier
and in a different way.

Having now corrected the facts, the many
inaccuracies in the article do not even offend
me as much as the tone of this piece. Khoury
-Ashooh will never take an abortion pill, be-
cause, as a man, he will never have to chose
whether or not to keep a baby, and the mock-
ing title of the piece (“Shall I take it with food
or with water) is insulting, flippant, and child-
ish.

Saying that women who take RU-486 have
no integrity is simply not true. Making a
choice to abort earlier may be the best way
these women can preserve their integrity.

If Mr. Ashooh would like to adopt the ten-

thousand babies—black, white, Hispanic and -

Asian—that were aborted.in the study and
support them in the style to which he is
accustomed, then he has every right to dictate
to other people what they can and cannot do
with their bodies. Until that time, I kindly ask
Mr. Ashooh to confine his hatred-spewing,
right-wing, moralistic, anti-choice zealotry
to subjects about which is he is more in-
formed and can actually write about correctly
and with integrity.

Margaret Dasher ‘02

Students should show
respect for the
community bikes

Between 1:00 and 2:00 am Tuesday night
before Fall Break, I observed an unfortunate
incident. After a few minutes of yelling and
destruction, I was no longer able to concen-
trate while studying in my F-Apartment, and
went to my window tocheck out the debauch-
ery. I was disappointed to see the last chuck

Othe eke eee he eee a ee ee ee 0A te ee Oe 8

light post.

To go outon a humongous limb, I am going
to assume this group of individuals was an
intoxicated group of seniors. This is no
excuse for the events that transpired. Judging
by the amount of hollering before the throw,
there were most likely more chucks of the
bike into the lamp and egging on of the
onlookers.

At the time, I didn’t think it would have
been useful to call Campus Police, because
the unidentifiable students quickly left, but I
should have. |

I did stop by the Davidson Outdoors office
and talked to the people behind the bike
program about what happened. In D.O. I
noticed at least three other bikes scattered
around with various repairs needed, from a
new chain toa complete frame melt down and
reproduction. I am afraid no one read Rob
McKeehan’s kind plea in the Sept. 20, 2000
Davidsonian, “Save the Community Bike
Program.”

The main issue here, respect, manifests
itself in many facets of the Davidson College
community. The property damage is cer-
tainly noteworthy, but is, in my opinion, not
the greatest disrespect here. When. someone
chooses to destroy a community bike or any
other piece of Davidson property, they are
destroying not only that particular physical
property, but moreover they are disrespect-
ing another member of the Davidson commu-
nity. Inthis case the entire D.O. staff has been
disrespected. People work hard to make
those bikes available, and I’ m pretty sure that
most of the wreckage is caused by just a few
uncivilized students.

Students should respect the bikes and there-
fore the individuals who work so hard to
provide the bikes for students’ convenience.

The Davidson community needs to work...
together to prevent these incidents of barbar-
ism from reflecting badly on the community
and from destroying the program. It seems to
work in Copenhagen, why not here?

I would also like to ask those who do
witness any event of property damage not to
follow my example, but, rather, to promptly
report it to the police.

Touse Rob’s description, I would like to be
optimistic that we can surpass a two-bike
“novelty” and run a functioning Community
Bike Program. :

<4 eee ee Le Ye we eho ee 4 eee 2 ee ee
