“Ability is what you're capable
of doing. Motivation deter-
‘mines what you do. Attitude
determines how well you do

it.” -Lou Holtz

THE DAVIDSONIAN
THURSDAY,
May 4, 2000

Wildcats welcome 24th football coach, J Oe Susan

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

Davidson held a press conference on
Monday afternoon to introduce its newest
head football coach, Joe Susan. He inherits a
program that has won a school-record eight
games each of the last two seasons.

Susan was the offensive coordinator and
offensive line coach for Princeton from April
of 1991 until January of this year. He had
been hired by Memphis in February as its
offensive line coach, but Davidson came call-
ing, and Susan couldn’t refuse.

“I kept (Davidson Director of Athletics
Jim Murphy) at arm’s length due to the tim-
ing after being hired by Memphis,” Susan
stated. “But he convinced me to come to the
campus, and my visit was unique. Just walk-
ing around the campus gave me a sense of
being at home.
“It’s a privilege to be associated with a col-
lege the caliber of Davidson. I look forward
to getting to know the young men that make
this program. We have a strong group of
experienced skill players and some talented
young linemen. (Former head coach) Tim
Landis left me with a full cupboard, and for

Wuat Coach SUSAN ALREADY HAS IN HIS CORNER..
The new head coach will inherit a solid defensive team that led all of I-
AA in interceptions a year ago with 28, including All-American defensive
back Ryan Crawford who led the nation with eight picks. Also returning
for his senior season will be defensive lineman Bo Henderson, a I-AA
Independent All-Star for the past two seasons.

that I thank him.”

Susan, 44, is a 1977 graduate of Dela-
ware, where he majored in psychology, and
earned his Master’s of Science from Dela-
ware as well in 1982. After spending eight
seasons as an assistant coach at Bucknell, he
was promoted to Assistant Head Coach in
1989.at Bucknell. He served in that capacity

‘ for two years prior to moving on to Princeton.

“I basically spent four weeks on the

phone,” said Murphy, “talking to many good

candidates and references. But when it was
all said and done, Susan rose to the top. He is
familiar with a strong academic environment
and understands the commitment our stu-
dent-athletes make to their studies and to
their football.”

Susan’s wife, Cynthia, and three chil-
dren — Matthew (15), Jessica (14) and Julia
(11) — still live in Princeton, but will be
moving to the Lake Norman area once the
school year ends.

Sports Information
New football coach Joe Susan
was introduced to the college
community and the media April
24 at Baker Sports Complex.

U.S. Supreme Court debates issues of homosexuality

Nearly a year ago, the New Jersey Su-
preme Court handed down a decision cur-
rently under heavy debate by nine of the most
brilliant legal minds of our country. These
justices have the difficult task of deciding
whether James Dale, an Eagle Scout and

former assistant scoutmaster, has the right to .

remain in an organization to which he has
dedicated his life energy. The issue at hand:
Mr. Dale is gay. The Boy Scouts of America
believe that Dale is a contradiction of their
values, as a gay man he is immoral and
unclean, and certainly nota proper example
for adolescent boys. They claim that he
resigned his membership the moment he came
out during his years at Rutgers University and
publicly declared his homosexuality. Now
we must weave througha tangled web of laws
and morals to determine whether.or not the
BSA’s right to select leaders as a private
organization outweighs Mr. Dale’s individual
right to be an active member of the Boy
Scouts of America.

The Scout Oath contains a phrase “To
help other people at all times.” Help all
people. There is no distinction to help all but
gay people, but everyone: love thy neighbor.
One of the main arguments in ‘the case is
whether or not the BSA has a policy that
forbids homosexuals membership. The fact
of the matter is that no, there does not exist a
policy that specifically precludes homosexu-
als from admittance, the justification lies
simply in the phrase from the oath to be
“morally straight,” and in the law tobe “clean.”

I am an Eagle Scout and have been a
member of the organization since I was six
years old. My tenure as a Boy Scout was a
difficult but amazing journey. I learned to be
a leader, a listener, and a teacher: I learned
how to live. Five summers of my life were
spent as a summer camp counselor and I
found people to whom I could confide. These
people became advocates for me. They gave
me hope at a time when the intensity of life

was over-

< A whelming.
A These

bonds
were
formed
by love—
a love in-
compa-
rable to

VIEWPOINT

any other that I have ever felt. When placed
in front of a Channel Six News camera days
after the New Jersey decision, however, I
began to realize that the love and support I
had so treasured was in many ways an illu-
sion. An Eagle Scout had been thrown out of
the organization, but for what? His sexual
identity. An openly gay male, scout execu-
tives branded him as the enemy. One mo-
ment an Eagle Scout, the next a monster: a
travesty of the organization and a failure. So
when asked about my opinion on the New
Jersey decision to allow Mr. Dale back into
the organization I spoke, with an unsuspect-
ing father at my side, in favor of the decision.
Mr. Dale’s homosexuality was part of his
biology, I rea-

means that eventually the Boy Scouts of
America can be a sanctuary of hope. Why do
we harm our organization by rejecting those
people whose creativity may serve to make us
better people? Instead we assume stereo-
types and encourage the oppression of unique
individuals. I fear that this selectivity will
serve only to erode the very foundation of
Scouting. How can we ask a scout to be
courteous and kind when the leaders of the
organization defend hate?

I understand that not all Davidson stu-
dents are familiar with this impending court
decision, but the ramifications are not just
important to the scouting communities, but to
colleges and universities as well. I recently

attended a ses-

soned, and to
discriminate
against him on
something en-
tirely out of his
control was
hardly courte-
ous, as. the
Scout Law intends for us to be.

When the BSA contends that they are
supporting a healthy environment for the
socialization of future male leaders in their
exclusion of homosexuals, I question where
the “duty to self” of the Scout Oath has gone.
James Dale repeatedly emphasized that he
does not wish to use his status as an assistant
scoutmaster to promote a platform of gay
activism. He simply wants to give back to an
organization that helped to build his strength
of character. When faced with the weighty
decision to determine whether or not the
BSA’s right to select leaders as a private
organization outweighs Mr. Dale’s individual
right to be an active member of the organiza-
tion, we must look to where the greatest good
is served. Does discriminating against gay
people serve a reasonable justification in the

overall purpose of the BSA program? The

court will argue whether the BSA is an orga-
nization of “public accommodation,” and
whether Mr. Dale, by virtue simply of his
open homosexuality, is engaged in “public
advocacy.” Whatever the Supreme Court
decides a larger issue of justice remains.
When I spoke in front of that news cam-
era last summer I took a risk at possibly even
losing my membership in the organization. It
is certainly a risk I am willing to take if it

To force someone to repress who they are, to live
a life that is a falsity, and to see the very fire that
ignites their soul slowly fade, is a violation of the
most basic human right—the right to have an
identity and be an autonomous individual.
SE ee

sion on “com-
ing out on fra-
ternity row,”
and found my-
self amidst
Patterson
Court mem-
bers required
to attend. The speaker was a gay male who
had come out to his fraternity members, and
was advocating our system of fraternities and
women’s eating houses to foster a healthful
environment for those brothers and sisters
who may be fighting the same mental battle
as he had. I was appalled to notice that the
first three rows of the 900 Room were empty.
People crowed themselves in the balcony and
the back of the room, anything to stay away
from him. The talk was treated as torture by
those who complained of a possible, God
forbid, hour and one half duration. At the end
of the session a question was raised—the
only question in fact—as to why a homo-
sexual would find it difficult to come out on
campus. Surely Davidson is the perfect place

for that kind of transition? Suppose that you -

are a closeted gay Davidson student in her or
his first year. You attend hall mixers between
female and male halls where couples are
identified by which woman has which man’s
tie. You attend parties that perpetuate hetero-
sexuality, and your friends use the words
“faggot” or “queer” to chide each other. The
language enslaves-you.._ The-chance-for-a
relationship is impossible so you put aside
your romantic interests for the next four years
of your life in favor of the excellent education
that attracted you to Davidson. One of my

close friends expressed
concern over the nature
of this letter, and feared
that if it were to be published,
the possibilities of harassment could be very
real. Davidson College is a liberal arts insti-
tution devoted to free thought and expres-
sion, to “let learning be cherished where
liberty has arisen.” The use of fear and
intimidation in a way that is detrimental to
these freedoms is contrary to our very pur-
pose. To force someone to repress who they
are, to live a life that is a falsity, and to see the
very fire that ignites their soul slowly fade, is
a violation of the most basic human right—
the right to have an identity and be an autono-
mous individual.

In my optimism, I would hope that David-
son students would be wise enough to put
aside any stereotypes that homosexuals are
unclean. I treasure a lesson! learned during
my first semester at Davidson from the pro-
fessor of my Anthropology 101 class: the
ability to rise from the limited perspective of
your social construct and examine other cul-
tures and people without letting your social
prejudices impede that vision. We are prob-
ably more familiar with the well-known
maxim, to walk a mile in another person’s

‘shoes before we criticize them. Everyone

seems to recognize the wisdom of that state-
ment, but few embody it. If we all followed
the wit of the anthropologist, then maybe our
attitudes would be more constructive, and our
world better for it.

The suicide rate of gay teens is astro-
nomical. In a time when people are desper-
ately seeking guidance, I hope that the BSA
will rise up to this devastating trend of death
with the positive reinforcement it provides so
many other millions of youth. People cer-
tainly have a right to association, but when
that association is defined in terms of some-
thing out of a person’s control—something
inherent in their genetic structure—then the
organization has impeded on her or his right
to live. To confine a person’s spirit and drain
the very energy of life from their soul is an
invitation to death. As members of the David-
son community and citizens of the communi-
ties from-where we came, we must-aspire to
the virtuous task of healing this hate, and
along the way we might just become more
humane individuals.

Ross J. Fenimore ’02
