Kuoury AsHOooH ‘03
Columnist

A telltale sign that a candidate is losing an
election is when policy reversals, personal
attacks, embellishments, and ersatz offers of
appeasement manifest themselves. Yet inthe
case of Al Gore, these have been occurring
throughout his presidential campaign, and
indeed, his career.

So why are these hallmarks of Gore’s style
now signaling his electoral demise in two
weeks? The answer to this question is that Al
Gore finally is realizing that his arrogance,
pomposity, and bad policy are lining up against
him. Al Gore has been forced to face his
electoral mortality.

The Gore campaign had better draw up and
implement a new plan soon if the vice presi-
dent has any hope of winning on November.
7", The campaign is close, but George W.
Bush is consistently ahead in the polls.
(Though poll trends are more important than
individual daily polls, it tickles this author’s
fancy to note that the October 18-20 CNN/
USAToday/Gallup Poll finds Bush with an
11 point lead over Gore, 51-40.)

The momentum clearly is in Bush’s favor,
leaving Bush free to discuss his own issues
and agenda and leaving Gore in the position
of having to counter Bush’s proposals. From

He said at a recent campaign stop that al-
though Gore leads the party of Franklin
Roosevelt, the only thing Gore has to offer is
“fear, itself.” This couldn’t be more true.
Since the Democratic National Conven-
tion, Gore has been offering messages of
class warfare, populism, race baiting, and
scare tactics. In his convention speech and on
the stump, Gore has attempted to, spark re-
sentment of the upper class by lower- and
middle-class Americans by vilifying the suc-
cessful, especially Gore’s favorite one per-
cent. By turning the have-nots against the

haves, Gore is trying to stir up enough hate for .

the rich in the hopes that it translates into
votes for him.

Any modus operandi that depends on stir-
ring up hate should be considered suspect.
Bush believes that no one should feel guilty
or be vilified for finding success. He is
offering open arms to all people in all walks
of society.

In Gore’s behavior the inherent hypocrisy
of the Democratic Party is seen. Gore does
not want to help the have-nots, he only wants
to keep them in his bag as a talking point. If
America suddenly became a place wholly
constituted by haves, Gore would have no
one to appeal to and no one in whom to stir up
class warfare. Gore and the Democrats de-
pend on the have-nots for their own political

George W. Bush,
the electorate is
hearing why he is
a better choice
than Al Gore.
From’ Gore, the
electorate is hear-
ing why Bush is not a better choice than Gore,

mechanical.

rather than why Gore is a better choice than -

Bush. This distinction is not made lightly. It
is clear that the candidate who is able to speak
positively about what he has to offer has the
upper hand, and that candidate is George W.
Bush.

In the first two presidential debates, Bush
was the clear winner. In the third debate,
Gore dominated Bush, but Bush won the
post-debate spin war, largely because he was
not seen as overbearing and mechanical.

Bush is doing everything right. He is
offering a message of inclusion, a message of
trust, and a message of meaningful reform.

In the third debate, Gore dominated Bush,
but Bush won the post-debate spin war, largely
because he was not seen as overbearing and

survival, and that
is why they will
never institute
policies truly in-
tended to elevate

aaa een nee omomem) CVCTYONC.

Gore’s populist
battle cry also has a hollow ring to it. The
catch phrase for populism is when Gore claims
to be for the people and not the powerful. But
what he doesn’t want you to know is that
Gore is trying to be something that he is not.

Again, this is an important distinction be-
tween the vice president and the governor.
While Bush presents himself as who he is,
Gore begs us to believe that he is his own
man. Any candidate having to assure the
voters that he is who he says he is should
immediately signal-warning flags.

Gore is everything that his populist rally-
ing cry is not.» He panders to those hated
special interests. He claims to take a hard line

against Hollywood smut, but then he accepts
the endorsement of the porn industry and

wines and dines with Hollywood’s elitist of.

the elite. He rails against Big Oil, Big Gov-
ernment, Big This, Big That, but he owns
more than $500,000 worth of stock in Occi-
dental Petroleum and he believes that the
solutions to all of America’s problems should
come from new government programs and
entitlements.

Nothing is more detrimental to American

NES DAY, OcroeR 25,2000

| y is Al Coie’ s message not resonating with ‘American se

Bush believes that the United States should
become as close to energy self-sufficiency as
possible, and he wants to tap oil and natural
gas reserves in Alaska in an environmentally
sound way, while Gore would rather drive
energy prices up to encourage a radical effort
at prying Americans from their cars and way
of life. (In his radical manifesto, Earth in the
Balance, Gore advocates an end to the inter-
nal combustion engine and an increase in fuel
costs to help achieve this end.) Gore’s policy

progress than
Gore’s race-bait-
ing tactics. His
practice of in-
timidating mi-
norities with fan-
tasies of a return to Jim Crow, an end to
affirmative action, and rampant racial profil-
ing drives a wedge in the middle of American
society. The Democrats claim that they are
color-blind, but Republicans are not usually
the ones who discuss certain priorities for
various racial and ethnic groups. The only
people in the United States who regularly use
racial profiling are the Democrats, and this is
evident in every speech, advertisement, and
meeting that highlights the physical differ-
ence of any particular racial group.

All of the three previous methods em-
ployed by Gore comprise the one underlying
effort of Gore’s campaign: to scare people
into voting for him. Gore scares middle-class
people by saying that Bush will ignore their
concerns. Yet Bush’s tax plan generally is
better for middle-class citizens. Gore scares
minorities by saying that Bush will end affir-
mative action. But Bush wants to help mi-
norities by empowering them so that they do
not have to depend on government-mandated
racial preferences. Gore scares seniors by

claiming that Bush will ignore their prescrip-:

tion drug needs. But Bush’s prescription
drug plan covers all seniors without blossom-
ing the federal government.

While Gore is scaring people and attacking
his opponent, Bush is spreading his message
of compromise, reform, inclusiveness, and
bipartisanship. Bush believes that all Ameri-
cans deserve a tax break, while Gore wants to
pick and choose whom he feels deserves tax
mercy from him. How arrogant of him to say
who are the right people and who are not.

Any modus operandi that depends on stir-
ring up hate should be considered suspect.

proposals are
out of touch
with the major-
ity of Ameri-
cans, and that is
why the mo-
mentum of this campaign has shiftedin Bush’s
direction.

Perhaps Bush’s biggest draw is his record
of inclusiveness and bipartisanship as gover-
nor of Texas. This week, 29 Republican
governors are traversing America in support
of Bush, and with each group of governors a
Democrat from Texas will be traveling to
highlight Bush’s record of compromise and
cooperation. One Texas State Representa-
tive, Democrat Henry Cuellar, says of Bush,
“When I have called on him for support, he
has answered my calls.”

This sentiment echoes loud and clear around
Texas; numerous other prominent Demo-
crats, including other state legislators and
senators and the mayor of El Paso, have
publicly endorsed Bush. Bush is running on
his record of bipartisan legislative success,
and he has the support to back it up. On the
contrary, Gore is just running far away from
any positive message. ,

Al Gore is clearly running a campaign that
depends on negative tactics. Luckily for
Americans, it does not seem to be resonating
with a great number of voters, as his mechani-
cal, domineering style seems objectionable
tomany. George W. Bush definitely does not
have this race won yet, and it is likely that it
won’t be won until independent voters pull
the lever in the voting booth on November 7".
But Gore and Bush are in the business of
courting voters, and as the race stands now,
Gore’s themes of attack, smear, and fear are
failing against Bush’s themes of inclusion,
bipartisanship, and trust.

Weapons of slighty-less-
than-mass destruction?

A few months ago, one million women
matched in Washington, DC, for a cause in
which they believed. In the Connecticut
Post, people wrote angry editorials, asking
why these women did not march for a worthy
cause, such as ending world hunger. How-
ever, what these women stood for is one of the
most important issues in the upcoming elec-
tion: Gun control.

Now, in my perfect world, I think every-
body should own all the firearms they want.
Private citizens would walk around with ba-
zookas and rocket launchers. However, I
would be the only one with ammunition be-
cause, frankly, I don’t think the majority of
people could handle more than a piece of
string (andas for Charleton Heston, I wouldn’t
even trust him with string). Unfortunately,
though, I do not control the world.

The Second Amendment gives private citi-
zens the right to keep and bear arms. This
troublesome phrase was written back in 1791
in order to make the formation of militias
much easier both to prevent invasion from
foreign countries, and to overthrow the Ameri-
can government if it became tyrannical (or
the politicians became too boring, whichever
came first). :

Maybe Iam slightly paranoid, but I person-
ally feel a tad unsafe under a government that
tells me I may need to protect myself from it.

Additionally, I see no military threat from _,

~Canada or Mexico, even if they were to

combine with Cuba to form the UDA (Union
for the Destruction of America).

One of the classic arguments made by pro-
gun activists is the need to protect oneself
from others. Apparently these “law-abiding
gun owners who are given a bad name by the
minority of crackpots who use guns in a
violent manner, even though they are only
supposed to be used for hunting” have no
faith in the human race, nor the protection
offered by police. Additionally, they seem to
believe that taking a human life is wrong, but
itis perfectly reasonable to mercilessly slaugh-
ter defenseless deer, like Bambi.

The NRA stands by the claim that “Guns
don’t kill people; people kill people”, which
is partly right. It is a trite example to say that
pointing your finger at someone and saying
bang will not kill him or her.

Guns aid people in killing each other. A
gun by itself will not kill another person;
there still needs to be someone to pull a

. trigger. However, these weapons of slightly

less than mass destruction still assist in the
termination of innocent lives. And, as events
in places such as Columbine, among others,

show, it is far too easy for minors to obtain

guns to murder other classmates.

Banning guns may not be the answer (at
this time, but soon), but there needs to be a
reinforcement of existing laws, and new laws
need to be put in place, to prevent minors and
criminals from obtaining these weapons of
slightly less than mass destruction.

, Mandatary trigger, locks,, gyn turn-ins by

police, and background checks are a start, but
mandatory gun safety classes and confisca-

‘tion of guns from a potentially dangerous

person are also needed. This last regulation
would prevent criminals on bond or those
with a restraining order or history of violent
behavior from obtaining guns. And maybe
regulation of ammunition can become a real-
ity, even if I am not the ruler of the world.
Maybe Rosie was actually right about some-
thing.
Clinton Rickards ‘04

Context vs. Connotation

I wish to comment on Lauren Baird and
Cameron Richardson’s response “Buchanan’s
sexist language not amusing.” My rebuttal is
not an attempt to defend Scott Buchanan’s
article; he does not need my help. Instead, I
would like to address the authors’ assertions
on sexist language:

“Ignorant slut.” “Beast.” “Comment-
whore.” Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson em-

plications, and even their meanings are un-
clear. Our reactions to isolated terms are
based upon our experiences and upon con-
ventional connotations. I believe that Ms.
Baird and Ms. Richardson had such a reac-
tion, as if Buchanan’s article was nothing but
a list of three giant “sexist” words.

Context has at least as much to do with the
meaning of a word as its connotation. What
does Buchanan’s comment-whore have to do
with “women and their bodies?” Ms. Baird
and Ms. Richardson are offended by the con-
ventional connotation of part of this term;
they do not see the broader implications,
which Buchanan creates.

The authors concentrate on the language,
but they ignore the current context and seem
to make it a general rule to do so. I find it
ironic that Ms. Baird and Ms. Richardson
illustrate discontentment with Buchanan’s
“sexist language,” but they make no mention
of the article itself. Three terms are not the
whole story. :

I too believe that “language reflects and

phasize that these
words are “destructive
(and unacceptable) in
any context.” Thus, the

How can language be sexist,
without an analysis of intent or an is not so fixed that it
understanding of context?

enforces cultural be-
. haviors,” but language

cannot be influenced.

authors suggest that (sina aeons Even “sexist language”

context does not mat-

ter, in terms of “sexist langauge,” and that we
cannot change the connotation of these hope-
less words by changing the context.

How can language be sexist, without an.

analysis of intent or an understanding of
¢ontext? When words stand alone, their im-

can be rendered other-
wise, with consideration to perspective, in-
tent, circumstance, etc. Thus, finding fault

-with those who actually destroy conventional

connotations of such language is futile to the
authors’ cause.

ove vy Laurg McRonnell ‘01

Ee ’ '
