1 age”
‘event in cooperation ‘with te SGA and
RLO.

Students ave the opportunity to sponsor
beds. As with “Angel Tree ” service projects,

sponsors receive some basic information
about each bed’s recipient.

 Davidion Professors? Book Pro:

motes ‘New Wave’ In Physics
Instruction

Pays, which are ‘small computer poe

The new book contains a ‘selection of
these problems as well as new problems
written by the authors and their collabora-
tors. The purpose of the Physlets® book is
to provide instructors with all they need to
know to start writing their own problems
using Physlets®.

| Run for Peace To Focus on Unity
aot Violence

On Monday, Jomusary 27, the Run for
Peace, a 5K run/walk, will be held here at
Davidson with the purpose to unite people
against family violence. This year’s theme
is “Peace Brings a Home.” The Run is
organized by the Family Center of Char-
lotte, which raises funds for the Family
Center, an umbrella organization which
treats and prevents child abuse and neglect,
and the Shelter for Battered Women.

The starting point for the run will be at

27". A spaghetti dinner will be held for.

lege. Students are encouraged to participate
in the run. Information is available through

Jennifer Madden 52) coordinator of |

of helping someone else is need. Maggie
McDougall ’04 said “It’san amazing oppor-

~ : a on campus at that same time.

ee & ie ria a good cause this past Thursday, No-
Chiatan and. Ce ila: hint:

“ es Distrophy Association, or MDA. Ss far,
they have received about $2000 from the

_ the past, the biggest fundraiser has been the
’ KA Karnival, held in the spring. This year’ 8
Karnival is set for April 21".

Davidson College on the morning of the — experience, children with Seen Rave ihe

participants the night before at Queens Col- opporutnity to participate in opportunities,

" Ba Sisters hool years.

Davi

‘Tioga who Aid come Gk vote maciow
drive were enthusiastic about the possibility

tunity to help someone.” Even Jenny

Rawlings ’04 took up the opportunity, al-]
though she admitted, “ I don’t like needles -
but I'll manage. I can make the sacrifice.”
Mary Kathryn Ross, co-coordinator of
Project Life, said that there is aanother Bone
Marrow Drive planned for February aimed

- Davidson scientists Mario Belloni and

at typing minorities, since they make small
, of the Tegistry. She also” men-

KA gets booked for a cause
_ The brothers for Kappa Aion went to jail

" vember 9" forthe KA Lock-In. With alittle
help from their friends and cohorts to “bail”
them out of jail, they were about to get
~ $7500 in pledges to go tothe |

pledges, but they are still collecting money.
KA is very happy about the overall event,
says Matt Chapman ’03, service chair of the
fraternity. “We had a lot of students come
out. We had a lot of support from the
school.”
KA has been a big beneficiary to MDA. In

_ One student who knows about the ben-
efits of MDA is Marie Sharp 01. She has
muscular distrophy, or MD, and currently
gets around using a wheelchair.

The MDA is a great organization and
what KA is doing is really great,” said Sharp.
Sharp spoke to the brothers of KA before the
lock-in about her personal experience with
MD and what the MDA has provided for her
over the years.

Shape pointed out that one of the most
important services MDA offers to children
with MD is MDA camp. In this one-week

such as swimming and horseback riding,
thatthey nonilly wouldnothave the chance
to do.

‘Tt was an amazing experience,” she said,

By MIcHAEL CLIFTON
Special Contributor

Have you ever had a great idea, but no one
with whom to share it? A new Internet startup
in Charlotte, largely staffed by Davidson
graduates, has found a way to help.

ShyGenius.com is an online community
that connects marketers with theirconsumers
to tap the consumers’ creativity. It began as
the brainchild of Steve Halloran, a former
producer for ABC Television and director of
off-Broadway productions. His two main
interests are theatre and business, and in
ShyGenius, he found a way to combine the
creativity of theatre and opportunities of an e-
business.

Companies come to ShyGenius with their
marketing needs, and their needs are turned
into contests on the ShyG web site. Members
of the online community submit their ideas.
The best idea is selected and sent on to the
company, and the contributor is rewarded
with a prize. For example, there is a contest
now for ShyG users to create the tag line for
Charlotte magazine.

The company is founded on a belief that all
people possess native creativity, whether their

occupations allow them to express it or not.

Companies rely on creative innovation to
grow and survive. ShyG is the medium
through which consumers are empowered to
present marketing ideas to marketers, and
marketers in turn reward those consumers for
their contributions.

The promise of the Internet is that it will
allow all people to access vast amounts of
information, and so it is proving to be a great
equalizer. However, the Internet is still very
young, and so this dream has yet to come to
full fruition — but companies like ShyG are
taking big steps in that direction. Itisempow-
ering consumers to make marketing deci-

son grads create —
website for “shy geniuses”

sions about the very products they consume.

Davidson has strong connections in the
ShyG management team. In fact, 4 out of 5
ShyGenius employees are Davidson gradu-
ates.. Bill Gullan, Davidson class of 1996,
came on_as the Chief Marketing Officer.
Next came Ryan Northington, 96, Meagan
Gleason, ’00, and Elizabeth House, ’97.
According to Gullan, a liberal arts education
best prepares people for the nature of their
work because it develops strong communica-
tion skills, problem solving ability, creativ-
ity, and cultural awareness. Halloran is a
graduate of Middlebury, so the whole com-
pany is steeped in the liberal arts tradition.

ShyGenius is a unique community and
requires unique advertising. It has begun an
“evangelist” program in which students at
various colleges and universities are respon-
sible for developing marketing tailored to
their school’s population. These evangelists
are employees of the company and have great
freedom in the avenues they pursue.

Because the ideal ShyG member is some-
one creatively, culturally, and academically
inclined, college students are targeted. David-
son has two ShyG evangelists, Brandt
McMillan and Meghan Martiniere. Accord-
ing to McMillan, “Being an evangelist is a
good opportunity to get involved in the grass
roots of Internet business. It’s granted me an
understanding of e-business mechanics and
provided several chances to have a good time
while working.”

ShyGenius has been heavily trafficked in
the few months it has been open. According
to Gullan, it is difficult to predict how much
traffic a new site should get, but he believes
the company is right on track.

Membership in the ShyG community is
free, so next time you find yourself annoyed
by terrible advertising, stop by
ShyGenius.com and make.a difference.

New library procedures under consideration

By JessicA MERING
Staff Writer

The SGA recently approved a resolution
calling on the Library to relax restrictions on
student use of videos.

Little Library has hundreds of videos avail-
able for student use, but under the Honor
Code, none can be removed from the library.
The proposal aims to change that policy.

The resolution, proposed by Kevin Epps
03 and Gray Patterson ’03, points out that
students can only check reserve and non-
reserve videos out for three hours at a time.
During this time, they must watch them using
the library’s limited number of VCRs.

Not only is the three-hour limit constric-.

tive, but the opportunity to watch videos ends
at 1:00 a.m., when the library closes. This can
be especially difficult when an entire class
needs to watch a video over a small period of
time.

If the video is already checked out, stu-
dents are unable to find out who is watching
it, once they have checked it out, they may
discover that all of the library’s VCRs are in
use.

The proposal seeks to alleviate the number

of students vying for a limited number of .

machines ‘as well as to make it more conve-
nient to watch videos when the library is
closed. It suggests “that the Library adminis-

tration consider allowing videos, which are
checked out by students, to be taken from the
building so that they can be played in their
rooms or elsewhere.” Most likely, this would
apply only to non-reserve videos.

Epps and Patterson defend the logic of the
resolution by pointing out that all Davidson
students live under the Honor Code. Hence,
students that removed videos from the library
would be honor-bound to return them there.

Also, since many of the library’s VCRs
require headphones, they allow only one
viewer at a time.

“This would allow several students to check
out a video and watch it somewhere else, all
at one time,” explained Epps. By making it
easier for students to view the movies in
groups, the videos would not be unavailable
for as long as it takes students to watch them
individually.

The SGA approved exploration of this idea,
and the proposal now moves into the hands of
the administration. Dr. Leland Park, Director
of the Library, will head up this discussion.

He expects that it will be sometime late
next semester before the administration imple-
ments any changes. “I will be discussing the
proposal with the Faculty Library Commit-
tee, the Library Staff, the Instructional Sup- -
port Center staff, and the faculty. This will
take some time,” he noted.

a . :

Police blotter will return next semester

