By Curis HERRINGTON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Staff Writer

With the spring approaching, the men’s
tennis team begins what could be a record
setting season.

The Wildcats return five of six starters
from last year, add three exciting freshmen,
and are being led for the 27th season by head
coach Jeff Frank. Frank has not had a losing
season since his joined the Wildcats in 1973.

The team will be led by seniors Brett
Iallacci, Alex Okulski, Jake Sramek, and
TravisPritchett.

“With such: outstanding senior leader-
ship, success will follow,” said Blair Easton.
“They keep us in shape, I personally have
never been in better shape in my life.”

“After a preseason of non-stop basket-
ball, the team’s jump shots are better than
ever, and hopefully, their tennis games will
follow suit,” joked team manager Hank Bahr.

However, lallacci and Okulski comple-
ment each other with Alex’s pinpoint accu-
racy and Brett’s power.

The Juniors Whit Hanson and Billy
Boykin make up a deadly No. 2 combination.
Standout sophomore David Webb and fresh-

man Chris Herrington have joined to form a
great couple at the No. 3 spot.

Webb has helped the newcomer master
his strokes and adds, “Chris is fun to play
with.”

Easton is hoping to sneak i into the doubles
line up. Assistant Coach Bryce Plott adds that
the doubles will play a crucial role in deter-
mining the success of the team.

The team looks for Chad Phillips to step
up big-time filling in as a new starter.

“Chad has all the tools to make the ’Cats
a poisonous snake in the Southern Confrence,”
said head coach Jeff Franke.

Howie Winebarger, possibly the best
right-handed forehand on the team, also
looks strong.

“His low center of gravity and small
hands help him to be the great tennis player
that he is,” added Boykin, who spotted the
best record on the team last year.

The freshman Maryland native Matt Pe-
ters looks to see playing time this season.

“T have been working hard all preseason
and I can’t wait to get some action,” said
Peters.

Rounding out the freshman class is Ne-
braskan Leroy Butler. Butler has spent his

SPO
Tennis team looking to seniors for leadership in 2!

TS

preseason toning up in the weight room.
Getting bigger and stronger has been an

emphasis for Butler as well as Easton.
Coach Franke looks to captains Iallacci

and Okulski to guide the team to the NCAA

THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2000

tournament and a high final national ranking.

“With wins over 15th-ranked South Caro-
lina and 32nd-ranked East Tennessee State,
we could really raise some eyebrows,” said
Franke,

A Schott of adrenaline

2000 MeEN’s TENNIS SCHEDULE

By Mike ANDERSON

Queens : : Davidson : Editor-in-Chief
Belmont Abbey 6-1, W
2/19 James Madison Davidson 11:00 am Just about one month ago, the Wildcats
2/26 Campbell Davidson 1:30. received a much-needed “Schott” in the arm
3/4 | South Carolina Columbia, S.C. 10:00 am when a sophomore forward earned the start-
3/8 The Citadel Charleston, S.C. 1:00 ‘ ing nod against Western Carolina.
3/10 Georgia Southern Statesboro, Ga. 2:30 After stumbling to a 1-9 record in the
3/11 College of Charleston Charleston, S.C. 1:00 first six weks of 1999-2000, John Filar in-
3/13 Richmond _ Davidson 2:00 jected Bethany Schott into the starting lineup
3/24 Marquette Davidson 2:00 on Jan. 8.
3/28 UNC Charlotte Charlotte, N.C, 2:30 Schott played 34 minutes in her first-’
4/1 East Tennessee State Davidson 1:00 ever conference start, netting eight points,
4/4 VMI Davidson 2:00 grabbing six rebounds, and helping the Wild-
4/8 Chattanooga Chattanooga, Tenn. 1:00 cats to their first conference victory of the
4/9 Furman Greenville, S.C. 1:30 year.
4/15 Elon Elon, N.C. 1:00 Since then, she has started every game
4/16 Appalachian State Davidson 1:00 and the Wildcats have stormed back into
4/17 Wofford Spartanburg, S.C. _ 3:00 contention with a 4-4 run through Southern
4/20 UNC Greensboro Davidson 2:00 Conference action.
; A multitude of factors can be credited
‘Boldface denotes home games with the Wildcats’ revival, but one of them is
Italics denotes Southern Conference games undeniably the 6-foot forward sporting ‘No.
40.

Press RELEASE
National Collegiate Athletics Association National Office

Officials’ use of court-side replay equipment or television
monitoring to determine whether to allow or disallow a last-second
game-determining field goal under specific circumstances has been
passed by the NCAA Men’s and Women’s Basketball Rules Com-
mittees,

According to the new rule, “at the end of the second half or at
the end of any overtime period, the officials shall use
replay equipment or television monitoring, if available,
that is located on a designated court-side table (i.e.,
within approximately 3 to 12 feet of the
playing court) to ascertain whether a try po mg ff
for field goal that will determine the $
outcome of a game (win, lose, tie), and is
attempted at or near the expiration of the game clock, was released
before the sounding of the period-ending horn.”

By the mechanics approved by the committees, after the offi-
cials’ initial decision on the playing court to allow or disallow such
a try for field goal, officials shall use such court-side equipment to
determine whether the ball was released before or after the game-
ending horn sounded. When the horn is indiscernible, the officials
shall use the red light located on the backboard support (if avail-
able), asa determining factor. Should the red light on the backboard
support not be available, the game clock, only if it shows a tenth-
second display, shall be used to reach a decision. If none of these are
conclusive, the officials’ original decision stands. This procedure
may make it unnecessary to consult the official timer.

Before this change, officials were prohibited from using such
equipment by Rule 2-5, which stated that officials “may not use

NCAA says refs can use video

NC, A MA University of Delaware, agreed.

www.ncada.org

replay equipment for judgment calls such as release of the ball before
the sounding of the horn.” The committees made the rare mid-season
change in reaction to a recent series of highly publicized close calls.
“Obviously, there is no call in the game that is more important
and it’s the one call that’s remembered longer than any other,” said
Reggie Minton, chair of the men’s committee and coach of the
United States Air Force Academy. “If we have the technology
available to help us, we want to make sure we use it to get the call
right.”
Kate Pohlig, interim chair of the NCAA Women’s Basketball
Rules Committee and associate director of athletics at the

“If it is clear on the television monitor,
SES: we want to allow our officials the flexibility to
change the call if they can determine their
initial call was incorrect,” Pohlig said.

“There could be a half-dozen more games this year that come
down toa last-second shot and some of those could have far-ranging
implications on who our champions are,” Minton said.

“We want to give our officials every tool possible at the end of
the game to make accurate calls and not have a game go in the wrong
direction because there is a lot of noise at the end or they didn’t see
it or hear the buzzer,” Pohlig said. “I just think we needed to help our
officials more,” she said.

Minton emphasized that the committee is not questioning the
officials’ ability but wants to help them.

“We trust their judgment for 40 minutes or more and we’re not
going to stop trusting it. This just makes their job a little easier.”

This press release and graphic courtsey of the NCAA via its website,

Mike Anderson

“A major key to this turn-around has
been the insertion of Bethany Schott into the
lineup,” acknowledges head coach John Fi-
lar.

Schott has averaged six rebounds per
game as a starter, good enough. for second-
best on the squad and a spot among the
SoCon’s leaders.

“I’ve never seen anyone rebound like
her,” says teammate Katy Kamp. “She just
flies in there.”

Kim Taylor agrees.
out a great hustler.”

Filar and his staff speak often about
athletes playing specific roles in a team’s
blueprint. As for the second-year forward
from Aurora, Colorado: “Bethany Schott has
probably done as great a job as anybody of
knowing her role. It’s a very unselfish role.

“She plays excellent post defense. She’s
taken a lot of the rebounding pressure off of
Katy Kamp and Jen O’Brien. And when the
time is right, she steps up and hits some clutch
baskets for us,” Filar praises.

Case in point: January 22 against
Wofford. Having spent most of the second
half on the bench with four fouls, Schott
attempted only two shots all game. But she
nailed both of them—critical jumpers in the
game’s waning minutes—to lead Davidson
to a 67-62 victory over the Terriers.

Wildcat assistant coach Carri: Walker,
who played ACC basketball during her days
at Wake Forest, has high words of praise for
Schott.

“Even though she’s young, her work
ethic is a great example to all of us. She’s so
consistent in that,” says Walker.

“She's a very strong post defender. We
always know we can put her on the other
team’s best post.”

Walker describes Schott as an athlete
with tremendous focus and an ability to in-
spire. “When someone on our team does
something well, Bethany will clap her hands
once really hard. I love it! She'll clap once,
but then she’ Il sprint back down the court and
focus on the next play.”

It’s those hidden things that make Schott
such a tremendous asset. She carries herself
with an unspoken intensity, an unabashed
determination, and a good-natured de-
meanor—dqualities attractive in any athlete.

“Bethany really is an unsung hero,” says
Kamp. “She’s made such a contribution
since she’s been in the lineup. She’s truly a
hard worker and I’ve enjoyed every day I’ve
played with her.”

“Bethany is just flat
