THE DavIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Tuurspay, Aprit 20, 2000.

ii eee:

Former Davidson assistant to head conference

Press RELEASE
Western Carolina University

CULLOWHEE—Steve Shurina, who
has spent the past decade as an assistant
coach, was named head coach of Western
Carolina’s men’s basketball program Thurs-
day by director of athletics Jeff Compher and
University chancellor Dr. John W. Bardo.

“We’re very fortunate to have such a
strong national interest in our men’s head
coaching position,” said Compher. “After an
exhaustive search, I have no doubt that we
found the best man for the position. He pos-
‘sesses a great knowledge about the Southern
Conference and has a burning desire to be
here. I’m extremely pleased to have him as a
part of the Western Carolina family.”

The 34-year old Shurina succeeds Phil
Hopkins, who posted acareer record of 65-76
in five seasons and led the Catamounts to
their only Southern Conference champion-
ship and NCAA Tournament appearance in
1996. The St. John’s graduate brings a lot of
enthusiasm to his new position.

_“T want to make Western Carolina the
program that everyone wants to model after,”
said Shurina during a press conference Fri-
day morning. “The team has a young nucleus
of talent returning and has a chance to be a

real special group.”

Shurina, who becomes the Catamounts’
16th head basketball coach, has received a
four-year contract with a base salary of
$100,000.

“I had the opportunity to
observe his competitiveness,
knowledge of the game and know
how deeply he cares about stu-
dent-athletes and I’m happy that
he has chosen to bring those quali-
ties to Western Carolina,” ex-
plained Compher. “I couldn’t be
more excited about the future of
Catamount basketball under his
leadership.”

Last season, Shurina served
as an assistant coach at Vanderbilt

estern
University. Shurina helped the Shurina

Commodores to a 19-11 overall record and a
National Invitational Tournament (NIT) ap-
pearance. He worked extensively with South-
eastern Conference Player-of-the- Year Dan
Langhi.

“Steve was a tremendous asset to us at
Vanderbilt,” stated Commodore head coach
Kevin Stallings. “I think that Steve will excel
in every facet of the job from administration
to recruiting to being an excellent bench
coach.”

Prior to his one-year stay in Nashville,
Shurina served as an assistant coach at
Davidson College for seven years, the last
three seasons as Associate Head Coach (1996-
99). While at Davidson, the Wildcats cap-
tured the 1998 Southern Con-
ference championship, made
one NCAA and two NIT tour-

won 129 games, an average of
18 games per season, during
Shurina’s tenure.

“Steve possesses the com-

plete package in terms of work
ethic, knowledge and integrity,”
said Wildcat head coach Bob
McKillop. —
He began his coaching career at
Brooklyn College, where he re-
ceived a master’s degree in physical educa-
tion and sports management in 1992.

As a player at St. John’s during the mid-
1980s, Shurina went to four NCAA tourna-
ments, including the 1985 Final Four, as the
Chris Mullin led Redmen lost to Georgetown
in the national semifinal. He also was amem-
ber of St. John’s 1986 Big East championship
team and was captain of the 1988 squad as a
senior.

“Steve is an excellent basketball coach

nament appearances. Davidson ,

and a great tactician and technician,” said
former St. John’s head coach and Naismith
Basketball Hall of Fame member Lou
Carnessecca. “I wish my kids would’ ve played
for him. He knows how to teach the game and
get the most out of his players. He’s a coach,
I can’t say it any better.”

A 1988 graduate of St. John’s with a
Bachelor of Science degree in criminal jus-
tice, Shurina was selected to the All-Big East
Basketball Academic team in 1987 and ’88.
He also received the St. John’s University
McSwinney Award, which is presented an-
nually to the senior male student-athlete that
best typifies a St. John’s man. :

Following graduation, he played profes-
sionally for three years in the United States
Basketball League (USBL), World Basket-
ball League (WBL) and Continental Basket-
ball Association (CBA). Shurina played un-
der current Milwaukee Bucks head coach
George Karl with the Albany Patrons in 1989.

“I’ve always been impressed with his
level of confidence,” stated Karl. “Coaching
is leadership and Steve is a leader both on and
off the court. I think hell emerge as a leader
in the community as well. That’s just who he

”

1S.

Panthers help defensive backfield with first draft pick

By Burcin HarbDIN
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE—Despite talk of a trad-
ing down from their first pick, the Carolina
Panthers kept the No. 23 pick of the NFL
Draft and selected Jackson State University
cornerback Rashard Anderson as their first
pick of the draft.

“If we had gotten a trade whereby the
value would have exceeded what we think the
value of Anderson is, then we would’ ve made
the trade,” head coach George Seifert said.
“But we didn’t find what we were looking
for.”

Instead, the Panthers found their top-
rated defensive back prospect still available
at the No. 23 pick and leapt at the opportunity.

“He was atop-rated player on our board,”
said Seifert. “And all the coaches were red-
hot about this guy, so it was a natural choice.”

Anderson’s size (6-foot-2, 204 Ibs.) at-
tracted the Panthers, who sought a big defen-

Richardson welcomes top

By Burcin Harbin
Sports Editor

CHARLOTTE—It was just like fresh-
man orientation. They took a tour of campus
and then heard from the dean—Dean
Richardson, that is.

Less than 24 hours after the Carolina
Panthers made them their first three picks of
the 2000 NFL Draft, Rashard Anderson,
Leander Jordan, and Deon Grant arrived in
Charlotte to meet team owner Jerry
Richardson, tour Ericsson Stadium, and speak
with the media.

sive back who would match up well with the
host of big receivers now playing in the
league.

But what sold the Panthers’ staff on

. Anderson was his ability to play both the

comerback position and the safety. He played
both superbly at Jackson State, where he was
an All-American first-team selection as a
senior cornerback.

“This guy is the epitome of what you
look for in a potential cornerback-slash-
safety,” Panthers’ Director of Personnel Jack
Bushofsky said. “I see an unlimited future for
him. He has the ability to play both positions,
and he’s an outstanding special teams player.”

Earlier in the week, the Panthers did not
attempt to hide their desire to use the draft to
improve their defensive backfield, but would
not specify exactly which positions they hoped
to fill. With Anderson, they filled two.

His speed—the Panthers clocked him
running the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds—
makes him a very adept cornerback, capable

“He [Richardson] sat us down and let us
know that he wanted us to be respectful
young men more than anything,” said Deon
Grant, the Panthers second pick of the first
round and the 57th pick overall. “He told us
the things we need to know to survive of the
football field and on the team.”

Grant, a 6-2, 207 lbs. junior free safety at
Tennessee, was the second defensive back
taken by Carolina in the draft behind Jackson
State cornerback Rashard Johnson.

With their third pick, the Panthers moved
onto address their other area of concern—the
offensive line, despite head coach George

of hanging with even the speediest receivers
in man-to-man or bump-and-run coverage.
If Anderson played safety, he would become
a double threat—he could drop back and play
zone defense or stick on wide receivers in
man coverage

“It’s becoming more and more neces-
sary to have at least one safety in your sec-
ondary that can come up and play man-to-
man coverage on wide receivers,” explained
Seifert. “And I believe that’s what we have in
this man.”

As for Anderson, he’ll play hard wher-
ever the coaches put him.

‘Wherever they play me, I’m going todo
my best,” said Anderson, a native of Forest,
Mississippi. “It'd rather stay at corner. I like
that spot a little more because it keeps you on
your toes.

“But if they put me at safety, it wouldn't
matter. I'll just take it and run with it and
enjoy it. I love both positions.”

Anderson made his first start at

cornerback during the 1998 season after play-
ing his first year at Jackson State as a safety.
He finished the 1998 campaign with 52 tack-
les and 11 interceptions. In 1999, he recorded
47 tackles, deflected nine passes, and inter-
cepted three others.

But his stats do not reflect completely
the force he had become by his senior year,
when his presence alone scared most of-
fenses away from his side of the field.

Still, Anderson realizes he has much to
learn and looks forward to heeding the advice
of current Panthers.

“Those guys should help me out a lot,”
said Anderson, who has never visited Char-
lotte. “I’m going to be asking a lot of ques-
tions.”

Said Seifert: “We'll work him at the
corner position initially and see how he re-
sponds to that. There’s no doubt he can play
the safety spot, too.

“We expect him to be an impact player
for us in some capacity certainly this season.”

three picks to Charlotte

Seifert’s assertion a few days earlier that the
Panthers would look for overall value in a
player, not his ability to fill one of the team’s
needs.

But the Panthers believe they were fortu-
nate enough to find both value and utility in
Leander Jordon, a 6-3, 333 Ibs. offensive
guard from the Indiana University of Penn-
sylvania who has been compared to Dallas
Cowboys great Larry Allen.”

“Some people call me the poor man’s
Larry Allen,” said Jordan grinning. “But it
really doesn’t matter to me who people com-
pare me to. I’m going to try my best to come
out and make a name for myself.”

Actually, Jordan, Grant, and Anderson
had all made names for themselves once the
news hit the Carolinas Sunday morning that
they were the newest Carolina Panthers. And
in light of recent off-the-field problems that
have plagued several Panthers, the team owner
wanted to instill in the new pros what it meant
to be a pro.

A Super Bowl win topped his agenda,
but all three men repeatedly mentioned

Richardson’s emphasis on personal character —

and how much the Panthers valued that.
“He [Richardson] said he wouldn’t tol-

erate nonsense from players,” said Jordan.
Grant added, “He was straightforward,

letting us know what he wanted out of player
and out of a person.”

Most notably, receiver Rae Carruth and
running back Fred Lane have been embroiled
in off-the-field troubles recently. While Lane
and the Panthers are trying to resolve their
differences, the team released Carruth in
December after he didn’t turn himself in to
police on a first-degree murder charge.

No doubt, Richardson’s Sunday morn-
ing talk to his newest players was a caution
that the Panthers would not tolerate any play-
ers afflicting the Panthers’ organization and
reputation with their personal recklessness.

“What he said really made a lot of sense,”
Anderson said. “The team is made up of good
people, but mistakes are going to happen.
Still, you’ ve got to learn from those mistakes
and do better the next time.”

