Sports Editor

Despite a lackluster first half offensive
performance, the Davidson Wildcats im-
proved to a record 8-0 on the season. With
only 4:50 remaining in the game, sophomore
Daniel Hanks kicked a 21-yard field goal to
give the Wildcats a 20-17 victory over the
Centre Colonels, extending their winning
streak to fif-

teen straight
games.

The first

half show-
cased a series
of punts as
neither team could mount any sort of offen-
sive attack. By halftime, they had exchanged
field goals notching the score at 3-3. Hanks
had an opportunity to give the Cats the lead in
the closing seconds of the second quarter; but
his 27-yard field goal attempt hit the left
upright as time expired.

At the start of the third quarter, Centre took
an early lead, capitalizing on a fumbled punt
return by Kevin Strange. A play later, Centre
quarterback Drew Mildron put the Colonels

ching lO et bitin,

ahead hea he found Chuck Beard fora 34 ‘Colon ‘chee was given a sega dose of

yard touchdown. The momentum had ap-
peared to shift to Centre, but freshman Randall.

Bryan Fish, as. the “Wildcat workhorse”

_ pounded the ball into the end zone, tying the

" Jackie Davidson

Senior Bryan Fish rushed 32 times for 135 yards and a touchdown.

Hardy ensured that it was short-lived.

On the ensuing kick-off, Hardy returned
the ball 56 yards giving the Cats excellent
field position. The next three plays, the

score at 10-10.

The Wildcats then capitalized on a Centre
turnover to score their second touchdown of
the game. Sophomore Graham Elmore inter-

coma Mildron on the Colonel 34-yard line

~ resulting in touchdown pass from Nichols to

senior fullback Brian Fork.

Fans hoping that Centre would fold were
sorely disappointed. On the next possession,
Centre converted a third-and-eight, setting
up a 2-yard quarterback sneak tying the game
once again.

It looked as if the Cats might lose their first
game of the season, as the pesky Colonels
refused to back down, but sophomore quar-
terback Paul Nichols took control just in
time. On the next drive, Nichols conriected
with senior wide receiver Corey Crawford on
a third and five for a gain of thirteen yards.
On the next play, Nichols hit Crawford again
ona 39-yard bomb setting up Hanks’ winning
field goal.

The Colonels still had a chance for the
upset as they got the ball back with 1:08 to go,
but Mildren was picked off by sophomore
safety Elmore for the second time. —

With the win, the Wildcats remained tied
with Robert Morris for the longest win streak
in the nation. Davidson will go for a school
record of nine wins in a season next week at
Austin Peay.

Bo knows sacks: Henderson anchors Wildcat defense

By Matt GarFIELD
News Editor

Bo Henderson doesn’t want to see his name
in the headlines.

He won't tell you how much he bench
presses in the weight room or how it feels to
be the all-time sack leader at Davidson. His
modesty is almost contagious. ,

But know this about the senior linebacker
and captain of Davidson’s 8-0 football team:
When he steps onto the field on Saturday
afternoons, the Mr. Nice Guy act disappears.

The Charlotte native, who didn’t begin
playing football until his senior year at
Garinger High, leads the Wildcats with 59
tackles and 7.5 sacks, four of which came
against San Diego Oct. 15, breaking the record
for both career (23) and single game sacks.

But you’d never hear any of that from
Henderson because he doesn’t keep track of

“acouch inthe Union, his Wild- .-

statistics. And although he won’t admit it, his
play is a big part of the reason Davidson is
tied at for the longest win streak in the nation
with 15. ;

On this night, the 6-foot,
225-pound Henderson sits on

cat football jacket concealing
biceps the size of most
people’s thighs. The captain
speaks softly about life on and
off the field.

“One of the great things
about the team is you can’t
really pinpoint one player,”
he says. ““We have great ath-
letes on both sides ofthe ball.” .

Henderson’s soft-spoken demeanor is the
opposite of his approach to football. He’s
involved in just about every tackle in some
way or another, either making the initial hit or

helping one of his teammates finish the job.

Each of his sacks, Henderson says, wouldn’t
have been possible without his. “brother,”
senior defensive end Andre
Carelock.

“He’s helped me so much,”
said Henderson, citing
Carelock’s advice about read-
ing blocks and other football
nuances. “We push each other.
He’s been a real role model
for me.” :

If you didn’t know better,
it would be easy to think the
two really were brothers.

“A lot of people say we
look alike,” Henderson said.
“T was in a club in Charlotte, and someone
came up to me and said ‘Hey Andre.’”

Get them in the weight room, and the real
competition begins. Henderson says he’s got

the lead right now. He grudgingly admits he
can bench 450 pounds, Carelock 405.

Henderson is also quick to downplay
Davidson’s 8-0 record.

“Coach Susan says each week, ‘Let’s go 1-
O. If at the end of the season we won all those
1-0 battle, then it’s great.’”

Off the field, Henderson is a biology major
who hopes to enter the field of epidemiology,
the study of diseases. This past summer, he
and senior Shaun Tyrance started a mentoring
program with professor Rudy Jackson aimed
at reaching out to area at-risk youth.

With only two games left in the season,
Henderson is trying to enjoy his last weeks as
a college football player.

“Even though we don’t have playoffs or a
bowl game, the mere act of doing what it
takes to succeed on the field is a life lesson.
It’s a reflection of who I am.”

Men’s soccer season concludes in SoCon semi-finals

“By ANbY LANOHA

Staff Writer

The Davidson Men’s soccer season came
to a dramatic close this Saturday when the
Wildcats lost a 4-3 overtime battle to Appa-
lachian State in the Southern Conference
This game ended Davidson’s
most successful
season in over
four years as
they finished
12-7-1 overall,
with. a 7-3
record in con-
ference play. °

The game ended abruptly with only 2:31
left in the first overtime period when the
Mountaineers’ Chris Weddle took advantage

semi-finals.

of a broken play in the back and slipped the -

ball into the net.

Appalachian’s fourth goal ended an amaz-
ing comeback for the Cats. Though Davidson
opened the game powerfully jumping out to
a quick 1-0 lead, Appalachian State soon
roared back. Scoring two-goals in less than

two minutes and eventually extending their
lead to 3-1 early in the second half, Appala-
chian appeared to have the game in hand.
But, Davidson knew better. “Even at 3-1,

we knew we could come back,” said Senior
Co-Captain Dave Buehler. “We had dug
ourselves a hole, but we were definitely
outplaying them.”

Once Davidson launched their comeback,

it was a new game. Junior Erik ‘Ozimek
scored Davidson’s second goal in the 71*
minute, taking a pass from junior Derek
Kilburn and confidently finishing it.

With only seven minutes left to play, David
Buehler’s diving header provided the clutch
goal that tied the game and sent the ‘Cats into
overtime. Ozimek started the play with a free
kick from almost 40 yards out, which was.
placed perfectly onto Buehler’s head.

The overtime period seemed to be more of °

the same for Davidson. The Cats came out
strong and created chances to win. But,
unfortunately for the Cats, Lady Luck was
with Appalachian. Though the Cats owned
the last 60 minutes of play, Appalachian
made good on their Br real chance of the

overtime period and ended the Cats come-
back and season.

“We played quality soccer and created a lot
of chances.
ball around in the second half, we killed
them,” commented senior co-captain Dane
Erickson. But, “trouble defending set plays
and lot of misfortune,” according to Erickson,
eventually proved too much for Davidson.

The semi-final loss followed a strong show-
ing for the Cats in the opening round. The
Cats downed the VMI Keydets 3-1 in the
conference quarterfinals.

Davidson started the game sluggish and
gave itself a bit of scare falling behind 1- Or in
the 21* minute of the match.

Senior Ikenna Myers made sure his season
wouldn’t end so soon, however, when he
scored the tying goal at the 41:29 mark. Just
45 seconds after entering the match Myers
raced past the defense to finish a pass from
junior Jon Tetirick. —

“Tkenna came off the bench and gave us a
‘real spark,” said Erickson. “His goal was
rejuvenating. We were confident, then, that
we would ane the next Soup of seals to

Once we started knocking the —

finish the game.”

Erickson, himself, provided the game-win-
ner just two minutes into the second half.
Receiving a ball off of Norbet’s foot, Erickson
buried: the ball, providing Davidson with a
lead that would remain unchallenged.

Jon Tetirick sealed the game at 3-1 in 87"

‘ minute off another assist from Norbet.

Despite a strong record and many suc-
cesses this season, Davidson is understand-
ably. disappointed. ‘We controlled our |
chances late in the season—whether we could
have earned an at-large bid or won the [con-
ference] tournament—but we let ‘em both
slip away,” commented Senior Bryan Garrett.

The Cats may have fallen short of their goal
to make the NCAA tournament, but they can
still hold their heads high. Playing their
comfortable underdog role, the Cats rose to
many challenges throughout the year. They
finished second overall in the conference, at
one point manageda six-game winning streak,
and battled hard until the last. For the under-
classmen, there is always next year,. but for
the seniors, there is much to be proud of.

