DAvIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 27, 2000

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 5

Alumni reminisce
about old friends,
college memories

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

With only 1700 students, Davidson Col-
lege is often characterized as a “small, inti-
mate community,” implying acozy but some-
what limited group. This weekend Davidson
students had the opportunity to see just how
far that community reaches as Davidson
alumni from all over the country returned to
celebrate Homecoming with their fellow
Wildcats.

Griffin Rankin ’00 coordinated the Home-
coming Alumni programs which included
dinners, receptions, and parties, especially
for the classes of 1990 and 1995.

“I’m here to see old friends; there are no
weddings this year!” joked Kimberly Nance
‘95, a Political Science major who received
her Master’s Degree in elementary education
and currently teaches 4th grade in Richmond.

The campus has changed little since the
classes of 1990 and 1995 graduated, although
Rita Rhame Daniel ’90 admitted the VAC
still looks “weird.”

Many also commented on West Dorm. As
recently as 1991, all freshmen dorms were
single-sex;

Bruce Newsome ’90 admits to “destroy-
ing” First Center Belk as a freshman.

Matthew Meldon (95 Art), David Saudek
and Jeremy Potts (both ‘95 Biology) demon-
strate the different paths recent Davidson
alums have taken. Meldon went to seminary
and now works at a Littleton, CO church.

Saudek spent a year in Tanzania running a
clinic and working with street kids and is
currently attending Medical College of Geor-
gia. Potts took his degree to Alaska and then
Japan with the Japanese Teacher Exchange.
He is attending graduate school at Duke Uni-
versity and hopes to go into international
environmental policy.

The Class of 1990 was the first to inhabit
the Martin Court apartments. Rhame Daniel
was one of those residents — and the only one
of her coommates to have a computer back
wiien Davidson had one computer lab.

Sarah Canadine Bayne ’90 remembers her

see Alumni, page 4

Hail To The King and Queen

i a
Seniors Sarah Moore and Chad Phillips were
elected King and Queen of the 2000 Homecoming Court.

.

Matt Whited

Renovated Grey college union
to house music department

By Jessica MERING

Staff Writer

Several Davidson organizations are pre-
paring to relocate their headquarters when
the Knobloch Camnus Center opens this
spring. This will male their current locations
available to fill the needs of a growing cam-
pus.

Most significantly, construction will begin
again to renovate the Grey College Union.
“Unless something changes radically, it will

become home to the music department,” said ‘

Music Department Chair Dr. Raymond
Sprague.

The music department looks forward to moving into its new home.

Erin Berry.

The Campus Center is expected to be
ready in April of 2001 and William Brown,
Union Director, has been working hard with
various committees to ensure a smooth tran-
sition. He has formed a “Moving Company,”
comprised of all the different organizations
that will be based in Knobloch to facilitate the
transition and all the details surrounding it.

“We have to address everything in ad-
vance, and we’ re finding all sorts of logistics
to work out. Hopefully by considering them
now, we will be prepared for moving in and
operating as soon as possible,” noted Brown.
Once the Campus Center is complete, Brown
anticipates: a positive reaction. “I haven’t
come up with words to describe how wonder-
ful and exciting it will be,” he exclaimed.

The completion of Knobloch will bring
with it a vacated Grey College Union. The

_ music department is looking forward to mak-

ing use of it in order to relieve considerable
space constraints.

The -department’s facilities are currently
spread out over six buildings around campus:

_ the Cunningham Fine Arts building, Elm

Row, Oak Row South, Love Auditorium in
Chambers, Eu Hall, and Davidson College

Presbyterian Church. As aresult of this sprawl, .

performance, classroom, practice, and office
space are all in different buildifigs. This cre-
ates less than ideal situations. It is an incon-
venience to move instruments back and forth
continually, and while DCPC is an excellent
performance venue for the choir, it is not an

see Union, page 3

Ecumenical Council
promotes Christian
community 7

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Both in national discourse and here at
Davidson, the Christian community has pre-
sented a divided and often confusing front on
the issue of inclusion and ordination of ho-
mosexuals.

The Ecumenical Council wants to reframe
the ongoing debate in a forum entitled “Many
Voices of Faith in One Conversation” next
Tuesday, October 3.

The Council encourages and respects the
differing views. They are concerned, how-
ever, about the way the debate has been
carried out and about its perception in the
community.

In light of this, the forum intends to “dis-
cuss the way the Christian community has
reacted” to this debate and to demonstrate a
more unified, more tolerant approach to its
resolution, according to Olga Granda ’01,
chair of the Council.

As Granda explained, Chaplain Rob Spach
had intended to begin a dialogue on inclusion
of homosexuals in the Christian community
with his letter to The Davidsonian.

Both Spach and the Council are pleased to
see this debate taking place, but because of its
distance from the issue and from the actors
involved, “The Davidsonian doesn’t show
every side,” remarked Granda. ‘We [the

Ecumenical Council] feel that we need a
more open and familiar environment.” Fur-
thermore, the letters that have been printed
“show a rift [among Christians], and that is a
negative image to present to the larger com-
munity.”

This forum is also an attempt to increase
the involvement of the Council in its main
area of responsibility, promoting coopera-
tion and dialogue among Christian students
and organizations on campus. The Council,
explained Granda, is sponsored by the
Chaplain’s Office and includes representa-

INSIDE

Viewpoint
Minority perspective on

Christian homosexual
debate

Gore under fire

Sports

Wildcat football continues
to dominate

Women’s soccer begins
conference play

Best dunks ever ?

