Five pills and a dead baby.
‘comfort of your living room.

The Clinton Food and Drug Administra-
tion on September 28 took the abhorrent step
of approving the abortion pill, RU-486, for
distribution in the United States. This drug
serves as a non-surgical method of abortion.

RU-486 is perhaps the first drug approved
whose sole purpose is to destroy life, not
preserve and prolong it. The passivity with
which its release was greeted in the U.S.
shows just how far this country has fallen into
' the pits of moral putrescence.

Abortion is a matter of life and death. In
choosing to have an abortion, the mother
chooses to end the life of her child. It is both

All in the

sickening and frightening that we permit such -

a choice to be made simply by popping a few
pills, let alone made at all.

The RU-486 Cocktail, as the abortion pill
is known, comprises two drugs. The first,
three mifepristone pills, blocks the produc-
tion of progesterone. This causes the uterine
lining—including the developing baby—to
break down and be eliminated in a manner
similar to the normal menstrual process.

The second drug, two misoprostol pills, is
taken in a doctor’s office two days after the
initial mifepristone ingestion. Misoprostol
induces uterine contractions. Two weeks
after these pills are taken, the would-be mother
returns to the doctor(?) to ensure that her

ieee btu biene destioyedande elimi-
nated from her body.

The ramifications of this new horror are
great. Outright, it is a victory for anti-life
zealots. It is also a victory for Bill Clinton,
who has been trying to bring the drug to the
U.S. from France since the first few days,
literally, of his presidency. And it is a finan-
cial victory for tiny Danco Laboratories LLC,
which has the rights to produce mifepristone
under the brand name Mifeprex. But there
are serious reasons to be wary of this drug,
and they fall in the areas of morality and
women’s health.

All methods of abortion are réietpulaive and
horrifying. No method is preferable over any
other. Though some may cite the abortion
cocktail as a safer alternative to surgical
methods, it is not. Regardless, the author
both deplores abortions performed in any
way and has no intention of endorsing « one
method over any other.

“Health of the mother” is a catch phrase
widely quoted by anti-life zealots as areason
for abortion. With Mifeprex, the health of the
mother is indeed a serious concern. Since
studies began in the U.S. in 1994, 10,000
young lives have been snuffed out in trials by
the drug cocktail—a number of lives more
than six times the number of students breath-

_ ing at Davidson College.

To anti-life zealots, FDA regulators, and

would-be mothers, this murder of innocent,
developing life is referred to as “success.”
But this “success” comes at an additional
price to would-be mothers. In the trials, one
out of every 100. users ended up in the hospi-
tal. Two percent of users suffered bleeding
bad enough to require surgery. One user
nearly bled to death. And there is evidence
suggesting that the drugs can adversely affect

. future pregnancies, causing miscarriages and

malformation in future children. It is true that
these are small numbers, but if you are will-
ing to write off 10,000 lives, you’re probably
also willing to dismiss this comparatively
smaller group as well, in the name of freedom
of choice.

Morally, the impact of RU-486 is quite
troubling. A decision as dire as the one to stop
a life growing inside of you ought to be one
that a woman struggles with before making
that final, revered, sacred “choice.” The
ability to pop a few pills as a quick fix, ie. a
quick end of a life, erases most of the gravity
in the decision. If liberal politicians want to
ensure that women have a right to choose the
ultimate fate of the child they carry, the
choice should at least be a difficult one.

With these pills, human life is cheapened a
little bit more. Citing National Review asso-
ciate editor Kathryn Jean Lopez, who refutes
the point that using RU-486 is morally on par
with having a miscarriage, this drug cocktail

“a passive act of nature

to end [a] pregnancy.”
Mifepristone’s effects were aisotolby

accident. It was originally developed in Ger-

many as part of a cancer treatment, and it was
found that a side effect was pregnancy termi-
nation. At this discovery, the German manu-
facturer stopped production, citing an air of
Holocaust-era medical policies. The French
then picked up where the Germans left off,
and they began distribution to numerous Eu-
ropean nations.

Misoprostol is approved in the U.S., under
the brand name Cytotec, for use in treating
ulcers. Its side effect is uterine contractions.

- Searle, the marketer of Cytotec, has objected

to its product being used in abortions.

RU-486 will be available in November for
doctors to give to women seeking abortions,
who will take the pills home and kill their
growing babies while sitting in the privacy of
their living rooms. This is selfish and cow-
ardly. Congressman J.C. Watts, Republican
of Oklahoma, has wisely said that integrity is
what you have when no one is looking. When
women ingest RU-486, no one is looking, and
these women effectively prove that they have
no integrity.

_ Khoury Ashooh ‘03

Christians must condemn deviation from biblical teaching as sinful

I suppose I should begin by saying that lam
a Christian. Maybe many of you are going to
stop reading right now. But it is part of who
I am and a large factor in the way I see the
world, and it is with that viewpoint that I read
Rev. Andy Baxter’s article on homosexuality
this past weekend.

When I began to read the ar-
ticle, I had no idea who had
written it; I hadn’t bothered to
check the byline. But when F
came to the end and discovered
that a pastor had written it, I
was both shocked and dis-
mayed.

Asa Christian, I ascribe to
belief that the Bible is God’s
Word to be taken as truth. I under-
stand that this is partly an act of faith,
and one that not everyone can take. And it is
with this understanding that I realize why
everyone is not able to see homosexuality as
immoral. ’

If I did not believe in the Bible as God’s
word to us in how we should live our lives, I
do not believe I would be able to find any-
thing wrong in homosexuality. I believe that
two homosexuals are capable of loving each

-other every bit as much as a heterosexual

couple. The love can be just as strong and just .

as long lasting. But that, unfortunately, does
not mean it’s right, at least not according to
the Christian God.

And it was on this point I was the most

~ alarmed at Rev. Baxter’s article. He said, a

disagree . : . that homosexuality is a sin.”
My expectation of Christian pastors is that
they see the Bible as truth and present that
truth to the people. They are called (as are all
Christians) to see the things differently than
the world sees them, even when it seems no
one else agrees. And homosexuality is one of
those sticky topics that is really hard to speak
out against; it is easier to accept the way the
world sees it. But the following verses are
why I, as a Christian, have to identify homo-
sexuality as a sin, and why I was so surprised
to see Rev, Baxter make the statement he did:
I Corinthians 6:9-12: “Do you not know
" that the wicked will not inherit the kingdom
of God? Do not be deceived: Neither the
sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers
nor male prostitutes nor homosexual offend-
ers nor thieves nor the drunkards nor slander-

ers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of
God. But you were washed, you were sanc-
tified, you were justified in the name of the

Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our

God. Everything is permissible for me — but

not everything is permissible. Everything is
permissible for me - but I will not be

mastered by anything.”

Romans 1:24-27, 32: “There-
fore God gave them over in the
sinful desires of their hearts to
sexual impurity for the degrad-
ing of their bodies with one an-
other. They exchanged the truth
of God for a lie, and worshipped
and served and created things
rather than the creator - who is
forever praised. Amen. Because

of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts.

Even their women exchanged natugal rela-.

tions for unnatural ones. In the ‘Same way
men also abandoned natural relations with
women and were inflamed with lust for one
another. Men committed indecent acts with
other men, and received in themselves the

. penalty for their perversion. Although they

know God’s righteous decree that those who
do such things deserve death, they not only
continue to do these very things but also
approve of those who practice them.”
Leviticus 18:22: “Do not lie with a man as
one lies with a woman, that is detestable.”
As I know Christians are often accused of

_ pulling things out of context, I have tried to

provide some context with each of the refer- |
ences. But I think it is made clear that homo-
sexuality, according to God, IS a sin.

However, I do not believe that it is a sin any
worse than any other sin. It is clearly stated
in the Bible that all sins are equal in the eyes
of God. If I take the Lord’s name in vain I
have sinned just as much as someone leading
ahomosexual life. It takes no more or no less

effort for God to forgive my sin than’ the
homosexual’s.

The difference, though: i is that homosexu-
als are accepted in society. It is not seen as a
sin, because it is “natural.” If God made them
that way, then why shouldn’t they do it?
Well, many people are born witha propensity
for being alcoholics. Is it all right, then, for
them to practice alcoholism, merely because
they were born that way? I think society
clearly says no, it is not ok. Why then do we

use that argument for homosexuality?

Do I believe someone can be a homosexual

and still be a Christian? Yes, of course. As
I stated above, it is no worse a sin than any
other. But it is still a sin, and we are called to
flee from sin. Jesus prevented the adulteress
from being stoned by pointing out that those
holding stones had sinned themselves. But
he also said to the woman, ,““Go, and sin no
more.’ ;
Ido not believe leaving alife of homosexu-
ality would be easy, but I do believe it is
possible. The God I know would not call
something a sin and then not offer help to
those who wanted to leave a life involving
that sin.

Love the sinner, hate the sin is the mantra
repeated over and over by the Christian com-
munity. But does the Christian community as
a whole really practice this? Unfortunately,
no. We tend to-be pegged as gay bashers or
other colorful names. As Christians, we need
to embrace homosexuals themselves, but not
their ways of life. Like any other, more
societal accepted sin, it needs to be discour-
aged in the church. But we need to accept

homosexuals as members of our churches
and communities, not make them outcasts.
That is no way to show “Christian love.”

As is obvious, [ have pulled my arguments
from the Bible. It is the only place you will
find argument against homosexuality, and
the only place from which I expected a pastor
to pull his arguments. But since he did not do
this, I felt compelled to offer it. I feel that the
world as a whole has a misconstrued notion of
how Christians view homosexuality, as often
their views are notat all based on scriptures or
based on only select scripture.

I said it before, I will say it again. I don’t
believe homosexuals are any more sinful
than I am. I do believe they are capable of
amazingly powerful love. But I do believe
that it is a sin, and the only reason I believe
this is because I believe the Bible is God’s
word and the truth. If you do not believe that,
you have no grounds for thinking homosexu-
ality is immoral. We look at the world from
different viewpoints, and that is alright. But
I invite you to look at it from mine.

Susan Vear ‘02

Rubber bullets and sparking the firefight

As the drama in the West Bank unfolds
with familiar scenes of Palestinian youths
slinging stones and hurling Molotov cock-
tails at green-clad Israeli troops crouched .
clutching their Uzis .-.

. take it all in with: a grain of salt.

The American press is competitive, unfet-
tered by censorship, and (arguably) overall
one of the best sources of unbiased informa-
tion worldwide. Unfortunately, like all things,
it is still flawed, and tragically so when it
comes to the games Israelis and Palestinians
play.

This imperfection’ is all the more reason for
caution in writing this article. I consulted
beforehand with multiple sources, all of whom
requested my objectivity in analyzing the
situation. One noted that information in

@Western media, particularly in the United
States, tends to be skewed toward the Israeli

side. “If you make one point,” she said. She
paused. “If you make only one point, make
sure people know that news articles don’t
capture the whole situation.” As per her

request, instead of rehashing news reports, J
will address two aspects of media coverage—
objectivity and analysis—both of which are
lacking in the coverage of the current crisis.

undercurrent than a Zionist conspiracy theory
as some pro-Palestinian observers believe. It
is unintended but inexcusably present. For
example, on Monday the Charlotte Observer

carried New York Times and AP reports “

under its own headline, “Rage flares in Mid-

ast.” Despite the fact that it is a poor head-
line (‘Mideast’ is not a word, and if it were, it
would conservatively encompass three time

zones—where was this rage?), it portrays the ,

Palestinians negatively. “The Palestinians
are at it again,” we think. “The Israelis are
trying to keep the peace, and in the face of it,
all this Palestinian rage. They just won’t be
reasonable.” It connotes a classic, intifada-

esque case of Palestinian rioting, trading ©

see Palestine, pore 12

~~ Our media’s flawed objectivity is more an—

<
