Press RELEASE

The Davidson Wildcats downed the Bears
of Southwest Missouri State, 3-2, Saturday
morning to take home third-place honors in
its first season as a member of the NorPac
Field Hockey Conference.
Senior Jennie Gold got the Wildcats in the
scoring column
first as she
3 found the back
2 ofthe goal cage

with just under

20. minutes left
in the first period of action. Shelby Faust of
SW Missouri State tied the game just minutes
later and the team went to intermission tied at
one.

The Bears took their only lead of the game
with 28:04 left in regulation, but the Wildcats
equalized the score on a Jessica Barton goal
less than a minute later.

Barton then scored the game-winning goal

Furman ends

By JENN HicGins
Staff Writer

It looked like the ‘four’ power was working
for the Cats as they defeated fifth seed
Wofford, 4-0 in the first round of the South-
ern Conference Women’s Soccer Tourna-
ment at Patriots
Point on Friday
evening. Sarah
Huber ’04 netted
her second goal
of the season,
less than a
minute after she
entered the game, to give the Cats the early
lead. Leigh Anne Hoskins ’04 scored two
goals in the matchup versus the Terriers. The
first goal came towards the end of the first
half, off of a Tara Maloney ’03 cross. Her
second goal of the evening was on a penalty
kick that was called after Lauren Dennis ’03
was tripped up in the box by Terrier goal-
keeper Katie Menegaz. ‘The Cats found the

with 4:25 left inthe game to give the Wildcats

their third place finish.

Junior goalie Amanda Mordavsky made
six saves in the win.

The Wildcats finish the season with an
overall record of 9-13.

Senior Lea Jaeger headed up a list of
Davidson field hockey players to earn NorPac
All-Tournament and All-Conference honors.
Senior Lauren Hancock and sophomore Agnes
Bateman were also named to the All-Confer-
ence team while sophomore Jessica Barton
made the All-Tournament team.

Jaéger, a back from Morgan Hills, Calif.,
was named Offensive Player of the Year in
the NorPac Conference. In the regular sea-
son, she led the conference with 31 points.
Also, her 14 goals were the most by any
player in the league. Lea was the only Cat to
earn first team All-Conference honors. Jae-
ger was also named to the All-Tournament
team after she accumulated two goals and an

Field Hockey concludes Season \ with 3rd pl

assist iiclading the game winning goal in the
quarterfinal round against Pacific.
' Lauren Hancock (Severna Park, Md.) was

named to the second team All-Conference:

squad. Hancock, a back, scored her first two
collegiate goals for Davidson this season.
More importantly, she was a stabilizing force
for the Cat defense and had six defensive
saves for the year.

Agnes Bateman, in her second year from
Berwyn, Pa., also made the All-Conference

-second team. Bateman was the second lead-
ing scorer for Davidson in the regular season
with 26 points. She notched four assists which
tied her for the most on the team.

Jessica Barton, aback from Hummelstown,
Pa., missed most of the season due to an
injury, but came on strong and was named to
the All-Tournament team. In the season end-
ing tourney, Barton tallied three goals and an
assist; including two goals in the third place
match against Southwest Missouri State.

women’s soccer’s championship hopes

back of the net for the fourth and final time in
the 53rd minute as Tara Maloney went unas-
sisted to beat Menegaz on a low line drive
shot to the far post.

Co-captain Winnie Corrigan ‘01 notched
four saves in the shutout. The Davidson

women’s soccer team captured their 14th win .

on the season (a school record) surpassing the
13 wins that they achieved last year. With the
quarterfinal win over Wofford (10-9), the
Wildcats advanced to the semifinals where
they took on the number one seeded Furman
Paladins (20-1) in a rematch of the 1999
SoCon Women’s Soccer Championship
game.

After a heated yet scoreless first period, the

Cats jumped on top of Furman 1-0 at 59:49 on:

freshman Alia Antonucci-Alter’s first goal of
the year. Antonucci-Alter got behind the
Furman defense ona through ball from sopho-
mores Heather and Tara Maloney. Heather
Maloney used her excellent read of the game
to send a free ball to sister Tara Maloney who
quickly passed it through to Antonucci-Alter.

She then slid the ball under the Furman goal-
keeper, far post for the score and the early
lead

Davidson continued to keep the heat on
the Furman defense and even had a goal
called back (possibly the game winner). With
16 minutes left,
the Cats thought
they had con-
verted on a cor-
ner kick, but the
official called a
foul on
Davidson negat-
ing the goal.
This controversial call definitely worked in
the Paladins favor, which poses many ques-
tions about the whether the final score tells
the true story.

Yet the Cats could not hold on because
Furman managed to tie the game at 79:50
when. junior Kaye Brownlee made a huge
play. After recovering a ball that looked to be
heading out of bounds, she crossed it back

into the box where freshman Emily Turgeon
(ranked number one in Division I in ppg) hit
the back of the net to send the game into
overtime. .

Six minutes into the first overtime session,
Furman’s Brownlee made another big play.
and came up with the game-winning goal.
Brownlee managed to gather a loose ball
from in front of the goal to rifle a shot to the
far post that was out of Corrigan’s reach.
This was the second straight year that Furman
knocked the Cats out of the SoCon tourney in
overtime. The Cats also fell to the Paladins,
2-1 in overtime, during the regular season.

Davidson finishes the season with an im-
pressive 14-8 record, 6-2 in the league. De-
spite the loss of two critical seniors, the “Cats
are predicted to make arun for the SoCon title
once again. With the talent of this Wildcat
squad on all levels, the future looks bright.

Note: Senior co-captains Winnie Corrigan
and Sarah Falconi made the 2000 Southern
Conference All-Tournament team.

Volleyball solidifies first place standing in the conference

Press RELEASE

Dayidson used a rally in the fourth game to

hold off Georgia Southern’s upset bid and
win 3-1 in Southern Conference volleyball
action. With the win, Davidson improves to
14-3 in SoCon
action while the
Eagles fall to 5-
13 in the confer-
ence.
Davidson
jumped out to a
7-2 lead in the
first game before the Eagles countered with
eight of the next nine points to take a 10-8
lead. The Wildcats fought back, eventually
tying the game at 11-11 before claiming a 15-
11 victory. Davidson hit .358 during the
game, committing just three errors while re-
cording 27 kills in 67 attempts.

The Wildcats found the second game to be .

easier as they cruised to a 15-8 victory.
Davidson jumped out to a 4-0 lead in the
game before Georgia Southern cut the deficit
to 4-3. The Wildcats then quickly increased
their lead to 14-6, using a strong defense to

limit the Eagles to a .078 hitting percentage in
claiming a 2-0 lead in the match.

Georgia Southern struck back in the third
frame, winning 15-12. The Eagles jumped
out to a 4-2 lead in the match and eventually
led 9-5. However, the'Wildcats would find
their rhythm, taking a 12 9 lead before Geor-
gia Southern rebounded for the three point
victory.

The final game proved to be hard fought as
neither team held a lead of more than six

points. Georgia Southern started out the game’

with a 5-1 run before Davidson rebounded,
scoring 10 straight points for an 11-5 lead.
The Eagles fought back, eventually tying the
game at 12-12 only to have the Wildcats
break the tie with two straight points, garner-
ing a 14-12 lead and match point. Georgia
Southern answered with three points of its
own to take a 15-14 lead before Davidson
finished the match with three points and a 17-
15 victory.

The Wildcats were led by senior Mara
Mordini, who registered 16 kills and 17 digs.
Senior Brooke Bentley finished with 15 kills
and 18 digs while recording a .382 hitting

percentage. Junior Erica Schwartz tallied 40.

assists for Davidson while junior Jennifer
Ortega registered 13 kills. Georgia Southern’ s

Lauren McClain notched a double-double to
lead the Eagles.

Golf finishes 6th at Davidson Invitational

ion: Rounding out the top five teams are

hus RELEASE

“The Terriers of Wofford College won the

Elon (4th/604) and Virginia (5th/623)..
TheDavidson Wildcats finished sixth |

