By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

In skidding to a 2-5 start in Southern Confer-
ence play, the Davidson women’s basketball team
has lost some believers.

Wofford head coach David Graves isn’t one
of them.

“They’re anextremely well-coached ball team
with some very hard-working athletes,” said

; Graves, whose
Davidse Ke oe : 67 Terriers fell to
Woffor hy’ \ 62 the Wildcats

Pate 67-62 Satur-

~ ‘ day. “They’re

not a 2-5 team. You always expect that high level
of performance out of Davidson.”

Davidson trailed 37-30 at the half and stalked
the Terriers from double-digit distance with under
ten minutes to play.

But the Wildcats outscored Wofford 14-2
over the game’s final four minutes, breaking a
streak of recent late-game collapses and improv-
ing their conference mark to 2-5.

“This was a badly needed win,” said head
coach John Filar. “Our girls started believing
again, you could see it in their faces during the
time-outs.” ; ‘

It’s hard not to believe when you’ ve got Jen
O’Brien on the floor. The senior point guard
turned in an all-around stellar performance, chip-
ping away at the Terriers’ morale with 17 points,

THE DAVIDSONIAN _

Wildcats wa

7 rebounds, 7 steals, and 7 assists, all game-high
marks,

With 1:41 to play and the score knotted at 60,
Janna Magette pulled down a spirited defensive
rebound and subsequently hit two clutch free throws
to put the Wildcats ahead.

Then Meagan Gleason delivered the knock-
out punch.

The Alaskan Assassin let fly a flawless three-
pointer as the shot-clock expired to put the Wild-
cats up for good. As could be expected, the game-
winning play was littered with Jen O’ Brien’s fin-
gerprints.

O’Brien provided the flip assist, and then
issued a bone-crushing screen to an airborne Ter-
rier, allowing Gleason to elevate above the would-
be shot-blocker.

“Jen hit a monster screen,” Gleason said.
“She broad-sided my girl and gave mea great open
look.”

Earlier in the contest, at the five-minute mark,
O’Brien offered a snapshot of her versatile domi-
nance. The 5-6 guard skied above a pair of Terrier
forwards to snatch an offensive rebound, bee-

lined for the top of the arc, whirled around and -

knocked down acrucial 3-pointerto bring Davidson
within four points.

“If there’s anybody else in the conference
that can do that, we sure haven’t seen them yet,”
Filar marveled. “You talk about a gutsy play, to
gather yourself after a tough board and then make
that shot. That’s somebody who wants the ball

“Nice defense today,” smiled a timid Julia
Carpenter, offering congratulatory post-game
words to Wildcat Meagan Gleason. Carpenter, a
12-year-old from Moeresville, continued in won-
derment, “I don’t
know how you do
it.”

Miss Carpenter wasn’t the only one in Belk
Arena pondering that very thing on Saturday.

Flat out, Meagan Gleason sparkled.

The 5-5 guard from Juneau, Alaska, comple-
mented her game-sealing trey Saturday with an
inspiring defensive effort.

Gleason’s footwork was dazzling and her
ball-pressure relentless.

“Meagan makes up her mind to do some-
thing, and she just does it,” teammate Janna
Magette said. “She made up her mind last year to
be the best defensive player she can be and
clearly she’s done it.”

Gleason’s intensity led a stifling Wildcat

*s BASKETBALI

Mike

Anderson

**T don’t know how you do it...”

defense that held Wofford to just 31 percent from
the floor in the game’s second half.

“She’s a spark for the rest of us,” Magette
described. “You see her out on the point, and you
get your feet moving. If she’s working hard, you
want to be working hard to help her out.”

The Alaskan Assassin has been deadly on
the offensive end, too. She’s averaged 13.5
points per game in the past four contests, and
sports a 50 percent clip from behind the arc in
conference competition.

Equally impressive, the senior has been a
go-to sharpshooter in the clutch. Gleason nailed
a late-game 3-pointer last week to keep the
Wildcats alive at Appalachian. Then on Satur-
day, she sealed the victory over Wofford with a
picture-perfect bomb at the 46-second mark.

“When you believe in somebody, you be-
lieve in them,” said John Filar. “We’ve been
waiting for Meagan Gleason. It’s great to see all
the work she’s put in pay off.”

Late-game collapse
costs women road win

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor-in-Chief

BOONE — For Wildcat fans, the final few
minutes of a women’s basketball game can be a
harrowing experience.

The latest installment in this disturbing trend
resulted in a 73-66 loss last Tuesday in front of 241
Lady Mountaineer faithful.

Davidson led Appalachain State 43-31 at the
half, and maintained a double-digit lead early in
the second period.

B uit
B:-avr..b ie
Breedlove’s
squad outlasted
the Wildcats,
thanks to 40-15 run in the game’s final fifteen
minutes.

“Losing a string of tight games at the very end
is not only physically exhausting,” said Bethany
Schott, “but it’s even more mentally exhausting.”

The Wildcats white-hot sharpshooters went
arctic cold in the second half, converting just one
of ten field goal attempts over a nine-minute span.

Meagan Gleason turned in another strong
performance, netting a team-high 16 points for her
third consecutive double-digit effort. Jen O’ Brien
added 15 points and a game-high 14 rebounds to
the effort. , :

The contest marked the third straight time
that the Wildcats paired a gutsy performance in
one-half witha disappointing collapse in the other.
Just three nights prior, the Wildcats had converted
a 62-53 lead into a 74-71 loss against conference
foe Furman.

“We know that we haven’t clicked on all five
cylinders,” says John Filar.

The Wildcats, at 2-12, have already accumulated
enough losses to assure the program’ worst finish
since 1994-95,

But hope is not lost. “We still feel like we can
be a spoiler,” Filar maintains.

From one perspective, the sight of Mountain-
eer black & gold may have been encouraging to
the struggling Wildcats. Just last season, Appala-
chian State brought a meager 7-10 conference
record into the conference tournament; neverthe-
less, the Lady Mountaineers swept the tournament
and earned an NCAA bid.

Although they don’t have the record to show
for it, the Wildcats have turned in some impressive
performances in the early conference-season.

Davidson went to the wire with two of the
conference’ s top three teams, in UNC Greensboro
and Furman.

“We know that we can beat any of the teams
that we have played against,” says Schott. ‘““We
just need to finish them off.”

THURSDAY, JANUARY 27, 2000

Mike Anderson

Meagan Gleason ignited the Wildcats Saturday with a game-sealing

' three and ferocious defense.

when it comes to clutch time.”

With Gleason and O’Brien leading the pack,
a wide array of Wildcats contributed to the come-
back effort. Among them, sophomores Bethany
Schott and Magette.

After sitting out most of the second half with
foul trouble, Schott netted two crucial jumpers in
the game’ s final minutes. “Those shots were huge,”
Filar said. “We talk about people playing their
roles, and Bethany played her role tonight. She
took the shots exactly where we want her to take
the shots, and she put ‘em down.”

Magette provided a stirring 16 points, 4 as-
sists, and 5 rebounds on the evening. “She came
in here a one- or two-dimensional player. Now

she’s much more like a Jen O’ Brien-type player,”
said Filar. “Combine that versatility with her
long-range shooting, and that makes Jannaa really
tough guard.” :

Davidson traveled to Chattanooga Monday
night to face the undefeated Lady Mocs. The
Wildcats return home on Saturday for a 3:00
showdown against Georgia Southern.

“The team almost forgot what it was like to
win, but what we’re feeling now is just a nice
mixture of relief and promise,” said Kim Taylor.

“We still get to go through the conference
schedule again, and teams can turn it around a lot
more easily than most people realize.”

Connecting ideas and action

prosperous society.

The Century Foundation

Get Engaged

THE CENTURY INSTITUTE
Summer Program

June 25" to July 15"
at Williams College
in the Berkshires

This three-week fellowship is intended for undergraduates with
an interest in civic engagement and public policy. Students,
scholars, and prominent policy practitioners together. will
explore the challenges America faces in building a just and

The Institute will cover all the expenses including
transportation, and students will receive a $1,000 stipend.

For more information or to apply, visit:
www.centuryinstitute.org
or contact Ann Stinson
_ via e-mail at cisp@tcf.org
or by phone at (212) 452-7705

S

Ihe Sagner Family Foundation

