THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS _

THURSDAY, APRIL 13, 2000 ee

Davidson names head volleyball coach

Press RELEASE
Davidson S.1.D.

Davidson College announces the hiring
of Tamara Darwin as the Head Coach of the
2000 women’s volleyball team. Darwin is a
1995 graduate of Duke University, where she
was a member of the varsity volleyball team,
which brought home four-straight ACC
Championships, four-straight NCAA tour-
nament appearances and two Sweet Sixteen
appearances. Duke finished 104-21 overall
and 40-4 in league play during her four years.

Darwin inherits a Davidson program
which is the defending Southern Conference
champion and currently ranked 48th in the
Division I NCAA Rating Percentage Index.
Last season, Lisa Marston led the Wildcats to
a record-setting season, posting a 31-4 over-
all record and 20-0 in the Southern Confer-

Wildcat lacrosse thrashes Bobcats 22-11

By Derek SmitH
Davidson S.1.D.

ATHENS, OHIO—Davidson used eight
goals from junior Lauren Kenchington to
out-muscle Ohio, 22-11, in college women’s
lacrosse action Sunday afternoon at Ohio’s

Multiple-Purpose

Davidson 22 Field
Ohio wv 11 The teams traded
goals early in the
contest with Sarah
Otto, Molly Cherington and Loren Seaton
scoring the first three Wildcat goals. But the
Wildcats went on a 5-0 run, holding the
Bobcats scoreless for more than 13 minutes.

During that span, Kenchington scored
two of her game-high eight goals and Seaton
added two more to her total, bringing the

score to 8-3. Otto scored her second goal of

the half with four seconds left to send the
Wildcats to the intermission with a 9-4 lead.

Davidson, added four more goals to start
the second half and extend their lead to nine,
13-4, with just over 26 minutes left in regula-
tion. Ohio rallied with three goals of their
Own in a two-minute span, but Davidson’s
defense forced 24 turnovers and limited Ohio
to 19 shots in the game. The Wildcat offense
attempted 45 shots and committed just 14
turnovers.

The eight-goal performance by
Kenchington breaks the Davidson single-
game goal mark of six held by Linda
Rothemund and Beth Calder.

Senior goalkeeper Lisa Benjamin re-
corded five saves on the afternoon while
facing 19 Bobcat shots. Ohio’s Katie

ence. The team broke school records for

fewest losses, highest winning percentage
(.886), most conference wins

boro, N.C., for a year. She accepted an assis-
tant position at her alma mater, Duke Univer-
sity, for the following two

and tied a school record for -
most wins.

“T am delighted to fol-
low Lisa Marston, “Darwin
said. “She is a good friend of
mine and has built a strong
foundation here at Davidson.
My respect and familiarity
with Davidson is an automatic
strength for the program, as I
look forward to representing
Davidson. “

Darwin was a member
of the ACC Academic Honor
Roll as Sociology major.
Since graduation, she has served as the Assis-
tant Coach at Guilford College in Greens-

tev

4 Mercer Co
Tami Darwin

years. In 1997, she took a
break from the collegiate
coaching scene and-worked
for NationsBank in Winter
Haven, Florida. She was the
Head Coach at Mercer Col-
lege of Macon, Georgia, for
two seasons before accept-
ing the Davidson head posi-
tion.

“Davidson’s reputation
both academically and ath-
letically attracted me. Be-
ing from North Carolina,
with family close by, is also
very encouraging, helping me to make this a
very easy decision,” Darwin said.

' Burgin Hardin

Beth Clader (white uniform), shown here in the Wildcats’ recent
game against Duquesne, has been a valuable offensive weapon this
season. Through eight games, Calder had recorded 11 goals.

Brockhovick made 15 saves and was pep-
pered by 45 shots from the Wildcats.

Just a day earlier, Beth Calder and Molly
Cherington combined to score nine goals, but
the Davidson was unable to fend off the Ohio
State Buckeyes, ina 13-10 loss at Jesse Owens

Memorial Stadium.

The Wildcats (4-6) return home for a
brief respite before hitting the road again.
Davidson heads to Nashville, Tennessee, for
game against Vanderbilt April 13.”

Women’s basketball signs five high school stars

By Derek SMITH
Davidson S.1.D.

Robyn Flewelling, a 5-10 forward from
Okemos, Mich. (Okemos H.S.); Meghan
Bryant, a 6-4 post player from Huntersville,
N.C. (North Mecklenburg H.S.); Lindsay
Shade, a 5-5 guard from Atlanta, Ga. (The
Marist School); Ashley Hallsted, a 5-6 guard
from San Mateo, Calif. (Sacred Heart Prep);
and Courtney Laird, a 6-3 post player from
Los Altos, Calif. (Sacred Heart Prep) will
attend Davidson College to play women’s
basketball and continue their education.

The announcement was made last Thurs-

‘day by Davidson College women’s basket-
ball head coach John Filar.

“This class will make a huge impression
on the Davidson College women’s basketball
program,” said Coach Filar. “They are all
extreme team players. We’re so excited to
have a class that will contribute quality play-
ers to both the inside and outside game.”

‘Robyn brings the versatility we love to
see in players,” said Coach Filar. “She can fill
three different spots for us. She has outstand-
ing court vision and is an excellent passer in
both the half court and full court games.”

Flewelling is the daughter of Rob
Flewelling and the step-daughter of Pam
Flewelling. In addition to her basketball ca-
reer, Robyn also played softball and soccer in
high school.

“Meghan has her best years ahead of
her,” said Coach Filar. “She has a fantastic
upside and has a great ability to run the floor.
She has great hands and is an aggressive
rebounder.”

Bryant was named MVP of the MEGA 7
conference for volleyball this fall. She is the
daughter of Kenneth and Pamela Bryant.

“Lindsay: loves the transition game and
will fit into our style of play well,” said Coach
Filar. “She is a very unselfish player with
good court vision and passing skills.”

Lindsay is the daughter of Leslie and

Debbie Shade.

“Ashley will be looked upon to step into
some big shoes,” said Coach Filar. “She
comes from astrong high school program and
is one of the most fundamentally sound play-
ers we will have next season.”

Hallsted is the daughter of Scott and
Ellen Hallsted. Ashley was a member of the
1999 California State championship team at
Sacred Heart Prep.

“We’re very excited to have two players
from the same school,” said Coach Filar.
“Courtney and Ashley will have great chem-
istry with each other on the floor. Courtney is
a true Division I post player with a very
physical game who rebounds extremely well.”

Laird is the daughter of Angus and
Courtney S. Laird. She was named second
team All-Girls Private School League as a
junior.

Davidson finished the season with a 10-
17 record and a 7-9 mark in Southern Confer-
ence play.

“In terms of the game of volleyball, my
technical and strategic love of the game should
bring continued success to the program. Most
importantly, I look forward to building strong
relationships with the talented women that
will come through the program,” she said.

During the past six years, Darwin has
assisted in summer camps up and down the
east coast, including ones at Davidson, Duke
University, University of North Florida and
Florida Satellite Camps. She is a member of
the American Volleyball Coaches Associa-
tion (AVCA) and the Aerobics and Fitness
Association of America (AAFA).

In 1996, she married David Darwin (Duke
°96), a four-year member of the Blue Devils’
baseball team. He now plays in the Detroit
Tigers organization, pitching for the Toledo
Mudhens.

DUFF preps
for nationals

ANDREW RHODES
Frisbee Correspondent

Making final preparations for the up-
coming national tournament, DUFF
(Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folk) fielded
two squads at home against Warren Wilson
and Wake Forest. _

DUFF dominated Warren Wilson with
asolid zone defense and won 11-4. Against
Wake Forest, DUFF was out to avenge an
early season controversial | 1-10 overtime
loss.. This time, the Demon Deacons never
recovered after DUFF took an early lead,
and DUFF rolled to a 11-3 victory.

DUFF’s B-Squad, “The People’s Red
Army,” played two solid matches, but was
natrowly edged by both visitors. The A-
Squad, “Back in Black,” dominated, de-
feating all of the day’s opponents.

Team leaders believe that players were
inspired by the arrival of Geoff Evans, who
returned from Wurzburg, Germany, to join
the team for the season finale.

The full, unified DUFF team will leave
Friday for the North Carolina Sectional
tournament in Wilmington, N.C., April 15-
16. There they will meet national power-
houses suchas UNC-Wilmington (9), North
Carolina (10), and NC State (12). If DUFF
performs well—and last weekend’s victo-
ries over its intrastate rivals are good signs—
then they could proceed to the Regional
tournament in Clemson, S.C. at the end of
April.

Paladins serve >
loss to Wildcats

By Derek SMITH
Davidson S.1.D.

‘GREENVILLE, S.C. — The David-
son College men’s tennis team dropped its
match last Sunday afternoon to Furman
University, 5-2, at the Minor Mickel Ten- |.
nis Center.

Davidson won only two games on the
afternoon. Whit Hansen defeated James
Cameron, 7-6, 7-5, at No. 2 singles while
teammate Alex Okulski downed Drew
Parker, 7-5, 6-0, at the No. 3 spot. Furman
was victorious at the No. 1 singles as well
as No.’s 4-6 and took all three doubles
matches from the Wildcats. :

Davidson falls to 7-8 overall and 3-3
in Southern Conference action while
Furman improves to 18-10 overall and 7-0
in the SoCon.

