. THE DAVIDSONIAN

NATION

THURSDAY, APRIL 6 2000.

J udge rules Microsoft violated antitrust laws

WASHINGTON (AP) — Humbling a
proud giant of the computer age, a federal
judge ruled Monday that Microsoft Corp.
violated U.S. antitrust laws by keeping “an
oppressive thumb” on competitors during the
race to link Americans to the Internet.

In a sweeping verdict against the empire
that Bill Gates built, U.S. District Judge Tho-
mas Penfield Jackson said Microsoft violated
the Sherman Act, the same law used to crush
monopolies from Standard Oil to AT&T.

He concluded that the company was
guilty — as the federal government, 19 states
including North Carolina, and the District of
Columbia had alleged in a case that began in
May 1998 — of “unlawfully tying its Web
browser” to its Windows operating system
that dominates the computer market world-
wide.

“Microsoft placed an oppressive thumb
on the scale of competitive fortune, thereby
effectively guaranteeing its continued domi-
nance,” Jackson wrote.

The verdict affirms Jackson’s previous
ruling in November that the software giant is
a monopoly, one that illegally used its power
to bully competitors and stifle innovation,
hurting consumers in the process.

_ The judge’s ruling can be appealed, de-
laying its impact for years, and Gates said the
company would pursue that avenue.

While Microsoft “did everything we
could to settle this case, we believe we have
a strong case on appeal,” Gates said. “... This
ruling turns on its head the reality that con-
sumers know: that our software has helped
make PCs accessible and more affordable to
millions of Americans.”

Microsoft didn’t lose all of the case:
Jackson ruled that the government failed to
prove that Microsoft’s exclusive marketing
arrangements with other companies “consti-
tuted unlawful, exclusive dealing” under fed-
eral antitrust law.

Jackson’s verdict opens the door for the

federal government to seek drastic penalties
against Microsoft.

The options range from breaking up the
company that made Gates a billionaire to
forcing it to share its proprietary software
code with competitors. Jackson also paved
the way for states to seek penalties under their
own anticompetition laws.

“Microsoft maintained its monopoly
power by anticompetitive means and at-
tempted to monopolize the Web browser
market,” Jackson said in a ruling that caused
a record-plunge in the Nasdaq market even
before its release. Microsoft stock dropped
by more than $15 a share to close at $90.87 1/
2, costing Gates about $12.1 billion in paper
losses.

The Justice Department vowed to press
the case until

Reno’s antitrust chief, Joel Klein, said he
was still open to a settlement but that it would
have to redress the violations cited in
Monday’s ruling.

Microsoft Chief Executive Steve Ballmer
also said the company would be open to more
negotiations but it “would need to see an
approporaite openness” from the government.

“We’ve spent the past 25 years thinking
of ourselves as a small aggressive company
playing catch up to industry giants even though
at some point along the way we became a
large company,” Ballmer said. “... Our in-
tense focus on moving forward has at times
been seen as threatening and our passion for
being the best has been misinterpreted. We
can do better. But that doesn’t mean innovat-
ing any less or delivering any less value to

consum-

consumers are
rewarded.

“Microsoft
has been held
accountable
for its illegal

“Microsoft placed an
oppressive thumb on the scale
of competitive for tune.”

ers.”

‘In his
ruling,
Jackson
wrote
that
“Mic -

conduct by a

court of law,” Attorney General Janet Reno
said. “Thanks to.this ruling, consumers who
have been harmed can now look forward to
benefits.”

Attorneys general for the states that joined
the case called for strict sanctions. Connecti-
cut Attorney General Richard Blumenthal
urged Jackson to “adopt remedies that are as
far-reaching and fundamental as Microsoft's
abuses of its monopoly.”

North Carolina Attorney General Mike
Easley applauded the ruling.

“There are many members of the com-
puter software industry that call North Caro-
lina home. They deserve to compete on a
level playing field that encourages excel-
lence and innovation,” Easley said.

rosoft’s
anti-competitive actions trammeled the com-
petitive process through which the computer
software industry generally stimulates inno-
vation and conduces to the optimum benefit
of consumers.”

He said Microsoft adopted “aggressive
measures” with computer manufacturers and
Internet providers that “successfully ostra-
cized” Navigator, a browser made by
Microsoft rival Netscape Communications,
in favor of the company’s Internet Explorer.

Substantial business was lost to com-
petitors “as aresult of Microsoft’s decision to
bundle Internet Explorer with Windows,”
Jackson wrote. The bundling “caused
Navigator’s usage share to drop substantially
from 1995 to 1998, and that as a direct result

Netscape suffered a severe drop in revenues
from lost advertisers, Web traffic and pur-
chases of server products.”

All the parties to the suit, including the
states, tried to postpone a ruling by working
the last four months through a court-appointed
mediator, Judge Richard Posner. The talks .
collapsed over the weekend, prompting Jack-
son to release his verdict.

Both sides in the case had reasons to
settle. For Microsoft, the verdict is expected
to spur more consumer lawsuits. Microsoft
already faces dozens of class-action lawsuits
seeking potentially billions of dollars in dam-
ages. Private lawyers plan to use the ruling to
bolster their contentions that Microsoft abused
its software monopoly to illegally drive up
prices of its Windows operating system.

“This is a manna from heaven for the
private plaintiffs because it basically should
eliminate a lot of their need for proof,” said
Robert Litan, a former Justice Department
attorney who negotiated with Microsoft in a
related 1994 case.

For the government, an out-of-court
settlement could have meant immediate sanc-
tions against Microsoft for its alleged
anticompetitive acts. Such relief, however,
would be delayed with a lengthy legal battle
now expected to find its way through the U.S.
Court of Appeals, where the case is likely to
be tied up for several years.

In addition, the U.S. attorney general’s
office will be under a new administration by
the time the case reaches the appellate court
level.

The federal government has spent more
than $7 million in its lawsuit and used tens of
thousands of pages of e-mail and other docu-
ments to portray Microsoft as an industry
bully. Justice Department lawyers said the
company illegally used its heft to undermine
competing technologies and to discourage
support for its rivals.

Questions and answers about the Microsoft rulin

WASHINGTON (AP)_ It could be years
before consumers see any impact of the land-
mark Microsoft ruling handed down Mon-
day.

Another phase in the antitrust case, in
which possible punishments will be explored,
along with expected appeals of the verdict
could tie the case up for several more years.

Here, in question and answer form, is a
look at what the decision means for Ameri-
cans and what they can expect to see next:

Q: My computer uses Microsoft Windows.
How will this trial affect me?

A: The verdict is unlikely to affect Microsoft
customers immediately, since there’s no prod-
uct recall being considered. But the judge
could eventually order Microsoft to change
the way it designs Windows, such as requir-
ing it to offer a version without an Internet
browser or requiring it to include rival soft-
ware programs within Windows.

In the most extreme case, the judge could
break up Microsoft into smaller companies
and set them to compete against each other by
selling different versions of Windows. Al-
most any punishment is likely to be deferred
until the case completes its journey through
the federal appeals courts, which could last
until 2002. _

Jackson did contend that Microsoft's
practices cannot be explained “‘as an attempt
to benefit consumers” but were rather an
effort to “quash innovation that threatened its
monopoly position.”

Microsoft Chairman Bill Gates said the-
company will focus its efforts on delivering
new innovation to consumers.

Q: How did the judge issue his ruling?

A: The judge decided on a very unusual
process. First, he issued his “factual find-
ings” on Nov. 5, in which he made the crucial
determination that Microsoft is a monopoly.
On Monday, the judge ruled that Microsoft
violated the Sherman Antitrust Act. The judge
found that the company used its position to
“monopolize the Web browser market” to the
detriment of competitors and that the soft-
ware giant could also be liable under state
anti-competition laws.

Q: What specific sections of law did the judge
cite in handing down his verdict? ,

A: The judge ruled that Microsoft violated
Sections | and 2 of the Shermafi Antitrust Act
in addition to various state antitrust laws.
Section | of the Sherman Act prohibits con-
tracts and. combinations in restraint of trade.
Section 2 makes it unlawful for a person or
firm to attain or preserve monopoly power
through anti-competitive acts.

The judge found that Microsoft violated
the first section of the 1890 law by tying
Microsoft’s Internet Explorer Web browser
to its Windows operating system. It violated
the second section because: the company
“maintained its monopoly power by anti-
competitive means and attempted to mo-
nopolize the Web browser market,” the judge
found.

Q: What happens next?

A: The judge will set a schedule for the next
phase of the case to consider possible punish-

ments of Microsoft.

The company has promised to appeal the
ruling and believes it has a strong case in
higher courts.

“Until the appeal is over, nothing is
settled. We’ ve learned that from experience,”
said Microsoft chief executive Steve Ballmer.
That process could tie up the case for several
years in appeals courts.

Q: What about future settlement talks?

A: Government lawyers said any settlement
would have to reflect the determination of
law made by the judge.

“The department is always prepared to
settle so long as the remedy will deal with

now the legal violations that have been fully
established by the court,” said Joel Klein, the
Justice Department's antitrust chief.

Citing previous attempts to resolve the
case through mediated negotiations, Gates
said he believes there were parties who were
not interested in settling, resulting in the
eventual collapse of those talks.

“We remain open-minded to that, but
we’ ll have to see what develops,” Gates said
in a CNBC interview.

Q: Where can I read the judge’s decision?

A: The judge’s decision has been posted on a

Web site run by the Government Printing
Office, at http://usvms.gpo.gov

Lottery. from page 4.

students who choose that kind of living envi-
ronment,” said Sara Cole, an RA in Sentelle
next year.

The Student’ Government Association
debated the issue of smoking in residence
halls last week—and voted overwhelmingly
to advise RLO to convert one building to
smoke-free status.

Holmes solicited student input after the
meeting, and explained that most students
lobbied for the new. building—currently
known as “West”—to go smoke-free. But
because of the heavy concentration of single
rooms in that new building, RLO opted to dub
Sentelle—which is mostly comprised of
double rooms—as smoke-free. “So many
people are going to those singles in West

because they wanted to smoke without of-
fending a roommate,” said Holmes.

RLO is also likely to dub one all-fresh-
man building (or a few scattered freshman
halls) as smoke-free. “We heard so much
positive support from SGA,” said Holmes. “I
was hearing overwhelming support for an-
other smoke-free building.”

Much of that decision will be based upon
feedback received from freshmen on their
housing cards. Students will have the option
of indicating a preference for a smoke-free
living environment, and those totals will be
considered when planning next year’s fresh-
men halls.

Looking ahead.

The next major step will be the full
lottery night, to be held on Wednesday, April
19:
