ances it in the Middle East ina “state of concern”

For the average New Yorker, the recent
Millennium Assembly of the United Nations
simply meant more road blocks and security
guards.

From the outside, the ainglé largest meet-
ing of foreign heads of state in history ap-
peared to be nothing more than acollection of
presidents, prime ministers, and potentates
shaking hands for photographers and admir-
ing each other’s limousines.

Had anyone bothered to listen to the rheto-
ric issuing from this international cocktail
party, they would have heard a clear mes-
sage: much of the world lives in poverty, and
the gap between rich and poor is increasing.
While few agree on how to address these
problems, all realize that development is high
on the international agenda.

Atthe same time, intrastate conflicts hinder
our best efforts at sustainable development.
Now, the people of regions such as the Demo-
cratic Republic of the Congo, East and West
Timor, and Sierra Leone are-caught in the
middle of an alphabet soup of warring fac-
tions — the RCD versus the MLC, the CDF
against the RUF.

Yet, in one case, the United States is both
aggravating an existing conflict and invest-
ing a huge chunk of its aid money where no
need exists. The United States’ role in the
Middle East and its support of Israel are
inconsistent with present political realities.

At this time of crisis for the peace process,
the US must take the time to reassess its

approach to the negotiations. In addition, the
US currently provides a great deal of support
to the Israeli state (more than one fourth of
US foreign aid); it is time for this subsidizing
of Israel to end.

First, the polarized view of the world that
characterized the Cold War is no longer ap-
plicable to international relations—there is
no more “us” versus “them.” The race to
secure allies in strategic territories led the US
to throw vast amounts of economic, finan-
cial, and military aid to countries with which

how can we expect to be considered a legiti-
mate moderatorif we have consistently shown
bias in favor of Israel?

After the latest failure at the Camp David
Peace Summit, US diplomats blamed the lack
of progress on Palestinian intransigence. In
fact, both Israelis and Palestinians made it
clear going into the negotiations that they
would only be satisfied with a comprehen-
sive agreement. When they quarreled over
the status of Jerusalem, the talks collapsed. It
was unfair and irresponsible of the US repre-

it held senta-
friendly tives. to
rela: Israel has a per capita income comparable single
tions. sete : out - the
Dur- to that of the United Kingdom - hardly a Pales-
ing the ~— developing country. tinians.
Cold PINE ity : Third,
i) a arene | S|,
rael was whichis

a key ally in the Middle East, while many of
the other countries of the region sided with
the Soviet Union (primarily to oppose Israel).
Our main national interest in the Middle East
is no longer the support of our allies but the
maintenance of peace and stability. Peace,
not strategic advantage, is in the interest of
the US.

Second, the nature of our current involve-
ment in the situation only serves to make the
conflict worse. We hold peace summits and
try to work with leaders from both sides to
form a comprehensive peace plan. However,

Response to Ashooh’s criticism

This is in response to Khoury Ashooh’s
recent articles concerning Hillary Clinton
and Al Gore.

I find it interesting how easy it is for him to
take shots at these two candidates, accusing
Mrs. Clinton of being “afraid” and Mr. Gore
of being “lying bag of hot air,” but yet he has
nothing positive to say about the Republican
candidates for office, primarily George W.
Bush. _

Why waste so much editorial space with
negative, inflammatory language that in most
cases is so biased that the truth is never even
revealed? Specifically, as far as Al Gore is
concerned, I could go through George W.
Bush’s campaign piece by piece, detail by
detail, and find just as many discrepancies

and contradictions about him, probably even
more. But let’s not waste the reader’s time.

Negative campaigning on the part of the
Republican presidential candidate is ridicu-
lous and self-defeating, because we all know
that “Dubya” has had quite a few “Bushisms”
of his own.

Rather than fill up the pages of the
Davidsonian with personal attacks, why don’t
we all get real and talk about the issues and
what is truly at stake in this year’s election? I
would think that intelligent Davidson stu-
dents would have much more interest in the
truth than the real “hot air” that has been
published of late.

Kristine Harrington ‘03

he Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

already in short supply, should go to those
countries who truly need it. Israel has a per
capita income (US$ 18,100) comparable to
that of the United Kingdom (US$ 21,200)—
hardly a developing country. If the US is
serious about ending poverty, fighting the
spread of disease, and promoting good gover-
nance, then it should put our tax money to
work where it will be most effective, in those
countries struggling against acute underde-
velopment.

Finally, there is a new generation of Arab
leaders in the Middle East who represent a

renewed opportunity for democracy in these
nations. Both King Abdullah II of Jordan and
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria have had
extensive contact with the western world and
have indicated that they welcome various
reforms that will lead their governments to
become more transparent and free. If the US
is to influence and encourage these reform-
minded leaders, it must demonstrate that it

- can be impartial in the region.

‘Riots have erupted in the occupied territo-
ries and in Israel subsequent to a visit by
Likud party leader Ariel Sharon to the holy
sites in the Old City of Jerusalem. The
current violence, the worst in many years, has
claimed the lives of scores of Palestinians and
of several Israelis. Among the victims was a
twelve-year-old. Palestinian boy who was
caught in the crossfire with his father.

Meanwhile, an anti-statehood bill is build-
ing steam in Congress. This bill threatens to
eliminate all aid to the Palestinian authority
in the event of a unilateral declaration of
independence.

While the US looks for political correct
terms to define its foreign policy, people are
dying. It is time for our nation to place peace
and stability ahead of the pressures of elec-
toral politics and an anachronistic view of a
polarized world. The US should seek solu-
tions instead of scapegoats.

Aaron Houck & Richard Vinson,
Editors-in-chief

Does Nike have an anthem?

I came to a startling realization yesterday.
No, it was not that I have red hair, nor was it
the astonishing shock that my last article was
rather below par.

The Olympics are going on! You know, the
quadrennial worldwide event that pits titans
of prowess against each other in backbreak-
ing competitions to see who can sell the most
soft drinks.

Competition has been fierce this year, with
amazing displays of bravado and dexterity by
sneaker and credit card, Gatorade and Coca-
Cola alike. The conversation that this year’s
games has stimulated is also great, “Did you
see the, dazzling dismount by that young
gymnast wearing the swoosh?” “Oh, yes, but
frankly, I am more partial to the one wearing
that leotard made by sweatshop workers in 3"
world countries working for that wonderful
multi-national corporation!”

I wish that the Olympics could get back to
its roots. You know, back to the basics of
naked men running around on dirt paths and
throwing pointed objects (not those, you
sickos, javelins) at each other. But, alas,
commercialization has killed the game. Gone
are the naked men and the pointy javelins.

Instead we have athletes like Marion Jones

who plan on winning 5 gold medals for the ~~

glory of the goddess of Victory (appropri-
ately enough)...err...I mean America.

I honestly don’t even know who has won
what or, for that matter, if anything has been
won at all. For all I know, Somalia could be
sweeping the Olympics with their warlords
turned Tri-athletes.

I am not quite sure who is to blame for my
ignorance. I suppose it could have something
to do with my half-hour of TV a week limit,

but I suspect it is actually due to the fact that
the Olympics is taking place in late Septem-
ber, 17 hours away, in another hemisphere,
and in a land peopled by convicts.

That’s right. Australia used to be a penal
colony. One giant Sing Sing. I guess that is
how they can justify setting the Pommel
Horse two inches too low. They must have
been too busy ogling all of those expensive
cell phones not to notice that they screwed up
an event that only comes once every four
years! I mean really, they didn’t even bother
to check it twice? I measure twice before I
hang a painting on the walt let alone set up the
sole support for a bunch of world-class
sponsors...err...I mean gymnasts. (And no I
am not obsessive compulsive).

What really catches my attention, though,
is the new sport, trampoline. It is pure genius
I tell you, pure genius. This Olympics’ plan-
ners cannot claim credit for this act of genius.
It has actually been mankind’s fantasy (I
stress man) for eons. One needs simply to
look at the Man Show. They have been staunch
supporters of this grueling and deserving
sport for years.

So get out and support Nike’s trampoliners
as any good American should!

and sure that it is a very safe and law-abiding
community of both convicts and consumers.
Furthermore, he is an avid supporter of both
Coca-Cola and Nike. Now he must leave and
watch the girls...err...athletes jump up and
down on trampolines.

Andrew MacDonald ‘03

“Note: Andrew has never been to Australia

4
