BE

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

Cameron Crowe’s 1970’s film Almost
Famous is flawless: there is not a moment in
the movie that is out of place, not a perfor-
mance that is miscalculated, not a scene that
is boring, and not a joke that is not funny. And
yet, its greatness does not hit you over the
head.

Like High F idelity, Almost Famous quietly —

proves itself, emerging as one of the best
films this year.

On one level, Crowe’s film is a coming-of-
age comedy about William Miller (Patrick
Fugit), a fifteen-year-old high school senior
who, with’ some luck, gets an assignment
from Rolling Stone magazine to do a profile
on the band Stillwater,

He goes on tour with the ‘band. He has
interviews. He scribbles down notes. He wit-
nesses excessive drug use. He saves two
people’s lives. He almost dies in a plane
crash. And to top it all off, he loses his
- virginity to not one, not two, but three women.

Somehow, William doesn’t come home
with an ego the size of the tour bus: he is

‘ameron Crowe’s Alm

a Ch a

essentially the same child that he was when
he left. All of William’s escapades and their
ultimate effect on him may seem implausible,
but because of the tone and style in which
Crowe presents them, we never once doubt
what is happening on the screen.

Almost Famous also examines the band’s
coming to

ost Famous qu

versation is.over, but how the conversation
ends is priceless. It’s gag we have seen be-
fore, but in Almost Famous it’s executed
perfectly.

As wonderful as the film is, Almost Fa-
mous ultimately belongs to Penny Lane (Kate
Hudson). Penny renounces the term

“groupie”:

terms with its she wants to
success. In be called a
this happy- He goes on tour with the band. He has inter- “band-aid,”
go-lucky era views. He scribbles down notes. He witnesses Which
ee a excessive drug use. He saves two people’s lives. are drop
good: auras, He almost dies in a plane crash. to hav indes
not even before

Stillwater is
immune to egotism.

Guitarist Russell Hammond (Billy Crudup
of ‘Jesus’ Son’’) is the leader of the band. The
only problem is that he’s supposed to be the
quiet guitarist with mystique. Challenging
Russell’s popularity, lead singer Jeff (Jason
Lee of Kevin Smith’s movies) takes subtle
jabs at Russell until it seems they must dis-
cuss their.problems openly. We know why
the discussion will end long before the con-

she’ll get on
her back. And if you could not guess, Penny
isn’t her real name.

Penny loves Russell, and on some non-
sexual level, she loves William, too. There is
something about the way Hudson speaks, the
way she almost blinks her eyes, the way she
laughs, the way her character genuinely cares.
Wecan understand why William loves Penny,
and we can only wonder why Russell does
not, or at least why he chooses not to love her.

ietly triumphs

The film also has some key small roles that
are as memorable as Hudson’s. There is
William’ s college professor’ s mother played
by the great Frances McDormand. Her char-
acter speaks with urgency and dominance. As
Russell anda bellhop note: “She kinda freaked
me out.”

Fairuza Balk as Sapphire, another band-
aid, seems like McDormand’s character
twenty-five years younger. She’s not uptight
like McDormand, but her language makes
her the center of attention. Also present is
Philip Seymour Hoffman as the legendary
rock critic Lester Bangs. With his role in
Almost Famous, Hoffman again proves that
he is without a doubt the best supporting actor
of our time.

The themes of drama - death, birth, loneli-
ness, love - are universal. Everyone can relate
to death and love. Comedy, on the other hand,
has no themes. Not everyone can laugh at the
same thing. This is why good comedies are
the hardest type of films to make. Cameron
Crowe has created not just a good comedy,
but also a great one. Almost Famous is a film
that anyone can watch and at least enjoy. That
may not sound like a triumph, but it is.

Blues Festival brings three generation of stars to Charlotte

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

Local fans heard the best the blues world
has to offer at Blockbuster Pavilion last Sat-
urday, September 23.

The audience melted under the spell of
Susan Tedeschi’s voice, rocked to the furious
riffs of Buddy Guy’s guitar, and drank in the
mellow tones of B.B. King and his band.

The B.B. King Blues Festival gave listen-

temporary blues artists to follow.

After a brief acoustic opening act by a
Charlottesville, VA bluesman, Tedeschi took
the stage. Drawing mostly on songs from her
album Just Won’t Burn, she stunned the crowd
with her powerful vocals. Tedeschi kept her
band small, with only bass, drums, and key-
boards accompanying her, which produced a
clean, spare sound and accentuated her emo-
tive style of singing.

Critics have compared her to Janis Joplin

ers a sam- and to
pling of the Bonnie
past, present, Raitt, com-
and future of After this display of improvisational prowess, _ parisons that
the genre. the audience was on the edge of its collective seat are clearly
King and for the entrance of “the King of the Blues.” warranted.
Guy, both From the
established searing in-
US: meio CY
showed all of a “Rock Me

the poise and polish indicative of the experi-
enced performers they are. While: King’s
laid-back style lent itself more to a jazzy
interpretation of old tunes involving compli-
cated orchestration, Guy showcased his great
affinity for rock and funk improvisation.
Tedeschi, a relative newcomer, proved her
rightful status as one of the heirs to blues
greats of the past. However, she also synthe-
sized elements from rock, folk, pop, and
country styles, setting the standard for con-

| a

2

their album Riding with the King

B.B. King pictured with fellow guitarist Eric Clapton on the cover of

Right” to the more reflective melodies of

“Angel from Montgomery,” Tedeschi played —

the crowd’s emotions for all they were worth.

Though notas famous for her instrumentals,
Tedeschi gave some great solo performances
on guitar. As the set wore on, she steadily
went into more depth on her instrument of
choice. Her rendition of “You Need To Be
with Me” showed remarkable clarity and
expressive strength. Tedeschi capped her set
off with a fantastic performance of “It Hurt

So Bad,” combining solid guitar work and
plaintive, soulful vocals.

Guy followed her and set the tone early
with a rocking version of the old blues hit,
“Got My Mojo Workin.” His set was an
interesting study in contrasts. In addition to

his opening
number, he cov-
ered several

other old songs,
including
“Hoochie
Coochie Man”
and “Mustang
Sally,” appar-
ently as a tip-of-
the-hat to leg-
ends of the past.

At the same
time, he impro-
vised constantly.
He entertained
the crowd with
three verses of a
song composed
on the spot. Guy
traded licks with
his fellow musi-
cians, often lead-
ing them into
seemingly unrelated melodic patterns, such
as “Mary Had a Little Lamb,” but somehow
he managed to bring them back each time to
the standard twelve-bar motive. At one point,
he even left the stage and walked through the
audience, singing and playing to individual
fans as the mood struck him. Through it all,
Guy’s skill and versatility on the guitar re-

- mained a striking constant.

After this display of improvisational prow-
ess, the audience was on the edge of its
collective seat for the entrance of “the King
of the Blues.” Instead, King’s eight-piece
band set up before him and cooled off the
crowd with a couple of jazzy tunes. Finally,
the star of the show took the stage, introduced
his band, and added another episode to his
long love affair with the blues.

King started off by apologizing for sitting
during his performance, admitting that he
had grown too old to stand through an entire
set. He added, “When a man gets to be
seventy-five, I think he’s earned the right to
sit down and play.” The audience greeted
this comment with cheers of approval.

King gave a stellar performance, making
up for its lack of variety with its expressive

‘purity and instrumental complexity. He stayed .

Susan Tedeschi stuns her listeners
with her powerful vocals

squarely within the bounds of tradition, alter-
nating between fast and slow numbers and
trading off solos with his fellow band mem-
bers. The listener had the impression that this
was truly a man in his element, enamored
with life and with his music.

He occasion-
ally exhorted the

. crowd (and

Lucille) when-
ever he felt that
the emotional in-
tensity was in
danger of dying;
King expected
the same. emo-
tional invest-
ment from his au-
dience in return
for his own out-
pouring.

King’s final
piece, “Please
Accept My
Love,” summa-
rized his relation-
ship to -his mu-

‘sic, to his fabled
instrument, and
to his audience.

He played and sang his heart out, not for fame
or for personal reward, but out of a deep and
abiding love for the form of expression he has
forever made his own.

After nearly five hours of music, fans went
home weary but delighted to have witnessed
such a display of talent. The Blues Festival
was truly worthy of its name.

Buddy Guy (right) w
Junior Wells. |
