Is the lesser of two evils the best we can do?

Will the real president-elect please stand?

A week has passed since the elections,
and the White House is still up for grabs.
What seemed like an unexpectedly exciting
race has turned into an excruciating process
that has many voters wailing, “Just get it
over with!”

As a nation that prides itself on a “peace-
ful transition of power,” we find ourselves
in uncharted waters.

Now, it seems that the courts may decide
the fate of some of the contested votes in
Florida. If the Democrats proceed as indi-
cated, Republicans have threatened to fol-
low suit in other states with tiny margins of
victory.

What is especially distressing about this
process is the rhetoric emerging from the
twocamps. Neitheris willing to concede for
fear that their rivals willclaim victory. Cam-
paign promises and party platforms are not
important anymore — “just as long as that
other guy doesn’t win” appears to be the
prevailing sentiment among party hardliners.

‘Unfortunately, that mentality is all too
common in the general voting public. Vot-
ing for president can rightly be said to be the
choice of the lesser of two evils.

Worse still, in the absence of substantive
debate over policy, either between or within
the parties, increasingly the only character-
istics candidates try to market are their per-
sonalities.

The media are often complicit in the
“dumbing down” of politics. After all, a
national soap opera sells.much better than
intellectual heavy weights discussing the
finer nuances of fiscal policy.

One can see this clearly in the most recent
election. Gore was framed as a stiff, nerdy
policy wonk who nevertheless had a firm
grasp on the salient issues. By contrast, the
media portrayed Bush as an energetic, like-
able mouthpiece with little substance be-
hind his lofty ideals.

Instead of focusing on genuine differ-
ences in their views, the media force-fed
voters two neatly compartmentalized can-
didates.

The result of this trend is that once the
decision comes before the majority of Ameri-
can voters, the choice is extremely limited.
The race, rather than encompassing a wide
array of ideologies and issues, is simply a
fight between two mutually hostile politi-
cians.

For those voters to whom neither candi-
date appeals, the frequent solution is to vote

“against” the least attractive option. In the
process, the voice of the general population
is stifled.

The primary system does much to filter
out the will of the majority. Party mecha-
nisms apparently place much greater value
on the views of the party faithful than on
those of the moderate swing voters who
decide the elections.

Candidates are selected based on party
loyalty rather than on their policies and
ability to govern. In addition, party leader-
ship grants significant financial resources
to shore up those politicians who, through
political favors and consistent defense of
the party standard, have proven to be the
most dependable and predictable.

This is a disservice to our democracy.
Not only does it exclude the views of a large
number of voters, but it also reduces the
effectiveness of the nomination process.
Greater competition, as well as more sub-
stantive debate, is the only way to ensure
that candidates for the national executive
are as qualified as possible.

Fortunately, changes are already taking
place towards that end.

Some states have begun to open up the
nomination process to independent voters.
[examples] Such changes have already
started to generate greater discussion and
competition within the major parties, as
was witnessed during this year’s primaries.

Likewise, campaign finance reform con-
tinues to show up on candidates’ political
“wish lists.” Admittedly, we have yet to see
much progress on this front. Still, there is at
least the hope that voters will recognize the
necessary connection between equitable
campaign practices and more attractive
choices come November.

For the time being, future candidates will
model themselves after the Bush-Gore
“School of Pretty Good Politics.” Nomi-
nees will not strive for excellence; they will
be content to remain just better than the
opposition.

When this election is finally over, the
candidate left standing will dust himself
off, look around, and realize what a mess he
has gotten himself into.

As he takes his first precarious steps into
the White House, he may find himself en-
vying Ralph Nader, last spotted driving his
Corvair off into the sunset.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors-in-chief

“The Davidsonian

2 ALENDA LUX UE!

ORTA LIABERFAS @

Ep itors-IN-CHIEF

Layout-Ep1iTor
Business MANAGERS

Cory Eprror
News Epirors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports Eptirors

PERSPECTIVES Eprror
Arts & LiviNG EDITORS.

PHOTOGRAHPY Errors

CIRCULATION. MANAGER”

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
Tim Cook

Peter Clark
David Johnston
Anna Kvanvig
Matt Garfield

JT Tolentino
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Jackie Davidson
Will Roberson

» Erica Schwartz
~ Thomas Cullen
_ Martha Hunt
Brin Berry

Matt Whited

~~ Renee Miller

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

Offensive language

need not be printed

While your distinction between offensive
and degrading language is interesting, who
ever said that offensive language should be
printed?

Davidson encourages freedom as a tenet of
a virtuous society. It also fosters a commu-
nity where respect for one another is valued
highly. As a matter of decency and mutual
respect, why use language that is offensive?

Surely, there are more effective ways of
making an argument. It is clear that Scott’s
language offended some. And while I as-
sume his intent was to entertain and not

- offend, how can we tell ona printed medium?

I take offense at language that offends
someone else, however it is used.
Elder Gwin ‘02

Clinton served us well

I am glad that even biased Mr. Ashooh
admits the “economic progress” which took
place under the leadership of President
Clinton. It has been exactly this that has made
his presidency so positive. Clinton has elimi-
nated budget deficits, created a surplus, be-
gun paying down the national debt that bal-
looned under Reagan and Bush, and kept the
military industrial complex from writing its
own checks.

The biggest complaint Mr. Ashooh seems
to present, but never discusses is that “[we]
have been marred by political turmoil and
personal failings.” Does Khoury mean the
world’s failings or his own? .

With the conflicts in Rwanda, Bosnia, and
Kosovo, along with continuing struggles for
power and peace in Israel and Iraq, the
world has surely been “marred by _-
political turmoil.” Can this be <,
blamed on our president or our
country, however? Anyone who
is honest will admit nation build-
ing has been a fault of the United
States for sometime, but are our

efforts to bring stabilization and end to hu-

manitarian emergencies so undesirable?
' Mr. Ashooh continues his argument by
advocating Governor Bush’s ability to “unite
both sides in Washington.” Iam from Austin,
Texas, and can offer fair testament to Bush’s
honorable job of working with opposing par-
ties. :

My concern, however, is that perhaps the
greater issue is Bush’s ability to unite the
global community. A community, where he
has no experience and thus, will be forced to
rely heavily on advisors who worked for his
father. Bush will not have a foreign policy, he
will have his advisor’s foreign policy, which
got rejected after one term in office, just like
his father.

Khoury Ashooh believes, as others have
likewise fallen victim, that our president serves
as a moral beacon leading us to some “‘prom-
ised land.” The Constitution gives the Presi-
dent six expressed powers, including being
Chief Executive, which means to enforce and
carry out federal law. The remaining five are
the power to appoint, negotiate and sign trea-
ties, commit troops, veto, and presidential
impoundment. ;
The President’ s personal life is no busines

to the American people, unless it affects his
ability to carry out his expressed powers.
Until just recently, the media has stayed al-
most completely out of the personal life of the
president. Roosevelt, Kennedy, and others
have all engaged in marital infidelity while in
office, but the media did not broadcast this to
the American people while they sat down to
eat dinner.

Moral character is important to the cred- .
ibility of the president, but more important is
their ability to serve as an effective Chief
Executive. .

They must be a master of foreign relations,
because our world is not growing smaller, but
larger and more interdependent. In this light,
Bush’s inexperience in the bureaucratic pro-
cess will not be an advantage but a distinct
hinderance to his international legitimacy. In
addition, his now apparent lack of any large
public mandate will be an equal disadvantage
for his legitimacy at home.

Vic Lindsay ‘04

Davidsonian showed
bias in pipeline story

While I appreciate The Davidsonian’ s ef-
forts to report ona variety of issues, I question
the integrity with which certain stories are
delivered. Your recent article on the Pied-
mont Natural Gas pipeline is a prime example
of a story that should cause concern among
your readers-not only about the pipeline, but

about The Davidsonian’s report-
ing.

The paper spent nearly 32 col-
umn inches discussing the pipe-
line-who’s laying it, where it’s go-
ing, why the college doesn’t like

it, why local landowners don’t
il like it, and so on. Yet nowhere in
that span is there comment from PNG offi-
cials. No defense of their rationale for ex-
tending their right-of-way or laying the pipe-
line. No space given to present their side of
the story. (As an aside, in discussing profits
generated by the increased use of natural gas,
your reporter uses the poorly-chosen word
“kickback.” Kickback is a term normally
reserved for criminal financial transactions,
not for honestly-generated profits.)

Make no mistake, I’m no fan of PNG, or of
their planned right-of-way expansion. In fact,
based on previous personal dealings with the
company, I find the story’s anecdotes believ-
able. Yet journalistic ethics demand that you
present the facts from both sides-something
this story failed to do. In that you missed a
fine opportunity to present a genuinely inter-
esting, important and balanced story, instead
coming off as just another corporation-bash-
ing publication.

If The Davidsonian wishes to be taken
seriously as the news organ of this campus,
the writers and should take greater care, both
in their choice of words and their exercise of
evenhanded, balanced reporting.

Brian J. Little
Macintosh Systems Analyst, ITS
