THE DavipsoniaN

NEws

Abundance of jobs facing graduates

SCRANTON, Pa. (AP) _ Life is pretty
good these days for Phil Goodwin and Tom
White. The two University of Scranton se-
niors are winding up their college careers and
preparing to enter the professional work force.

Like many of their classmates, the main
issue for them hasn’t been: “Will-I find a
job?” It’s been more like: “What job will I
take?”

The labor shortage created by the nation’s
strong economy and low unemployment rate
has not only benefited employees currently in
the work force, it’s also helping college stu-
dents like Mr. Goodwin and Mr. White who
are seeking to launch their professional ca-
reers.

Goodwin, a marketing major from
Horsham, near Philadelphia, said he has al-
ready received a sales offer from a national
financial services firm and expects to get
another one shortly.

That’s fine, he says, but he may wait to
accept a position more to his liking.

“IT don’t want to take the first thing that
comes my way,” says the 21-year-old senior.
“T want to find the thing I want to do in the
location I want, which is in the Philadelphia
area.”

White is a 33-year old Clarks Summit
resident who was in the Army before going to
college.

He said his goal all along has been to get
a job with one of the nation’s “big five”
accounting firms.

Last December, he did just that, accept-
ing an offer from PricewaterhouseCoopers.
When he graduates, he’ll head to Stamford,
Conn. to take a job with the firm for an annual
salary of about $40,000.

“T got offers from government agencies
in Boston and Philly, but I wanted the big
five. That was my goal,” he said.

Paul Perhach, the university’s director
of career development and placement and
Chery] Collarini, the school’s recruiting co-
ordinator, each say the last few years have
been boon times for college graduates.

“I’ve seen the cycles. I saw the mid-80s

when it was a great market. This 1 is as S good or

A Semester in the Woods

Earn a full semester of Academic Credit in the Humanities

Enjoy a range of Outdoor Adventure Activities

= community.

?

Visit the C RI website

Located in the mountains of North Carolina,
CRI offers a semester study program for
undergraduates. It seeks applications from

> students who yalue interdisciplinary study,

- experience with nature, and life in a small

fe Limited space is available for Fall 2000.

better than the mid-80’s market,” said Perhach,
who has been at the university since 1982.

Students who have degrees in any type
of technical field like computer science or
engineering are in great demand.

But, says Perhach, those with other ma-
jors aren’t having much trouble either.

“It’s across the board. It’s accounting,
business, nursing, even education,” he said.

In arecent study, the university surveyed
827 members of the class of 1999 who re-
ceived undergraduate degrees and 220 who
received graduate degrees.

Of the 72 percent who responded,
Perhach said 99.5 percent reported they were
either working or in graduate school full-
time.

The average salary was,
$30,000” he said.

“The range could go down in the low 20s
and maybe the high teens in some areas (like
human service professions). I’ve also seen
$50,000 and $55,000 per year for computer
science people and nurses in New York and
Philadelphia,” he said.

The job market is so competitive, says
Collarini, that many companies are actually
beginning torecruit juniors as well as seniors.

That’s why the university recently spon-
sored a “Junior Jump Start” program, de-
signed to encourage juniors to meet with
placement officials to discuss things like re-
sume preparation and internship possibili-
ties.

“Some of the bigger companies are actu-
ally hiring students in their junior year. When
students are coming back for their senior
year, they already have a job offer,” she said.

Career placement officials at Marywood
University say the strong economy is defi-
nitely benefiting students as the number of
companies recruiting on campus continues to
increase.

“They (companies) have so many posi-
tions available, they are looking for the best
and the. brightest people to fill them” said
recruiting coordinator Roseann Martinetti.

Lisa Morgen-Barrientos, aspokeswoman
for Manpower, a national placement firm

“a little over

j

Studio Art Rackrae
Philosophy . Rock Climbing :
Religious Sradies © Mountain BNE) |
Literature Canoeing

Kayaking

to receive more information

and to request an application.

Castle

www.castle-rock.org

based in Milwaukee, Wisc., agrees this is a
good time to be graduating from college, no
matter what major.

“If someone is an English major but has
basic computer skills along with strong ‘soft
skills’ such as the ability to work in a team
environment and work under deadline pres-
sure, they can be valuable to companies in
various industries,” she said.

Morgen-Barrientos said telecommuni-
cation and pharmaceutical industries are two
of the most rapidly expanding fields.

Locally, many firms are also planning on
hiring new graduates.

Frank Merkel, a partner in the Dunmore
accounting firm McGrail, Merkel, Quinn and
Associates, said accounting firms all across

the country are competing for the best talent
as they try to expand into areas like consult-
ing and financial services.

One trend he said, is to recruit college
juniors as interns and then hire them after
their senior year.

“More employers are finding students
who are juniors and then offering them jobs
as seniors,” he said, noting his 20-member
firm hires one or two new graduates each
year.

That’s good news for both.

’ “(The mood on campus) is pretty opti-
mistic. I think everyone pretty much feels
they’ re not going to be worried about finding
jobs eventually,’’ said University of Scranton
junior Rebekah Ferguson.

Princeton to increase enrollment by 500

PRINCETON, N.J. (AP) _ Princeton
University on Saturday agreed to boost stu-
dent enrollment by 500, the first significant
increase in the size of the student body since
women were admitted in 1969.

The university's Board of Trustees for-
mally approved the increase to individual
classes by 125 students, a 10 percent rise,
over the next seven years. They cited the
school’s expanded curriculum, a need to ac-
commodate more international students, and
a desire to increase student participation in
non-sports activities.

While the plan will make it easier to be
accepted to the university, applicants will
still have their work cut out for them. Last
week, Princeton offered admission to 12.2
percent of applicants for the class of 2004.

University spokesman Justin Harmon
said the plan would increase the number of
students involved in arts and academic pro-
grams at Princeton, where 29 percent of stu-
dents are on varsity teams and 23 percent play
club and intramural sports.

“Relative to our competitors, we have a _

fairly small class, and that will still be the case
as it has been one of the hallmarks of the
Princeton experience,” Harmon said. “One

disadvantage toa relatively small class size is
that when you are fielding as many athletic
teams as we are, you are in some sense
constraining the admissions process.”

International applicants will be among
those to benefit from the enrollment increase,
Harmon said.

The plan calls for the construction of
additional dormitories, including a sixth resi-
dential college. Fundraising for the construc-
tion is already underway, although Harmon
said the cost has not been determined.

Princeton will not increase the size of the
faculty, which has grown | percent a year for
the past 25 years.

Instead, the plan calls for an increase in
the number of graduate students, the size of
which will be determined by different depart-
ments.

Dean of Admissions Fred Hargadon was
not available for comment.

In the past he has said that his office
frequently denies admission to qualified stu-
dents and that increasing the size of the stu-
dent body would not adversely affect the
quality of students.

There are currently 4,600 undergradu-
ates at Princeton, 1,150 per class.

ovation, but that is not the end of the story.

has grown to love.

school has given each of you.

Thank you!

Sincerely,
Caroline Bynum
Assistant Director of The Annual Fund

An appeal to the Class of 2000

The Class of 2000 Senior Class Gift is setting a school record, but they are striving to
blow it out of the water. With Katie Crane and Drew Williams as co-chairs, the senior class
has secured 65% paid participation and over $8,000 in gifts. This alone is worth a standing

President Bobby Vagt pledged $5,000 of his own money if the senior class received
75% PAID participation. The class is only 39 people away from reaching that goal. With
only 33 days left until graduation, the crunch is on.

The purpose of the Senior Class Gift program is not to raise a.ton of money, but to
educate students, especially seniors about the importance of giving back to Davidson.
Without the support of her alumni, Davidson would not be the college that each person here

This letter is an appeal to those members of the Class of 2000 who have yet to pay on
their pledge or participate in their Senior Class Gift. Don’t miss out on an opportunity not
only to be part of history, but also an opportunity to show your appreciation for all that this

A special thanks to the 260 seniors who have contributed to the Senior Class Gift!
If you have questions or concerns, please direct them to Caroline Bynum at 892-2113.

&@ ALENDA LUX,

The _Davidsonian

SF yeh h Kes LIBERTAS @

“There are three things that no one can do to the entire satisfaction of Saye
else: make love, poke the fire, and run a newspaper.”

Join The Davidsonian.
Fall Editorial positions available.

WILLIAM ALLEN Wuite, 1917

Contact Alison Kalett or Mike Anderson for more information.
