ERLE EET PRODI A EE TET ORIN FBC TED

Andy Rhodes ‘01 poses his questions for “Ask CNN.”

“ee
Matt Whited

>

Theft from Union alarms college community

By JessicA MERING
Staff Writer

Davidson students feel comfortable leav-
ing their possessions unattended and doors
unlocked, but crime is not as unlikely as
many would like to believe.

Early in the morning on Sunday, Oct. 22,a
portable safe and money inside was stolen
from an office in the Union, say campus
police officials.

The Union was checked and deemed se-
cure by campus police on the Friday before
the theft. Student employees were on duty all
day Saturday, and when the Union closed at
1 a.m. Sunday morning, no one had reported
any suspicious activity.

Shortly after 10 p:m. Sunday, Aaron Houck
‘02:and Richard Vinson ‘02 discovered an
open safe on the third floor between the
Davidsonian and Libertas offices.

Director of Campus Safety Sam McKelvey,
another officer on duty, and Tim Stroud,
Assistant Director for Operations of the Union,
arrivedto investigate shortly afterwards.

McKelvey said the doors of the safe had
been pried off with a screwdriver and a vice
grip, which were left at the crime scene. The
combination lock of the safe was not used to
gain access. An unreleased amount of cash
was missing from the safe, and several checks
remained in it. The safe was used to store
petty cash for student organizations and Union
functions.

’ The fact that only one door was forced
open, as well as the fact that this occurred
when no one was scheduled to be in the
building indicates that “this person is some-
one who is: very familiar with procedures in
the Union and the layout of the. offices,”
speculated Stroud.

Kirk Willingham ’01, president of the Union
Board, agrees, “Whoever did it had to know

- where the money. is kept.”

The Union was locked Sunday morning
but was accessible with a CatCard. It would
have been possible, also, for an individual to
enter the building earlier, when it was open to
the public.

Also, as Assistant Director of Campus
Safety Marlon Lynch points out, itis easy for
unauthorized individuals to “piggyback” and
enter the building with someone who does
use a CatCard.

The Campus Police are now investigating
the case.

There’s a very strong possibility that we'll
figure it out,” said Lynch. “We can’t say
whether it’s a student or a non-student. Right
now, we’re increasing officer visibility and
random patrols as well as advising the Union
staff and students on safety precautions and
awareness.”

Anew, improved safe is now in use as well.

Even if the case is solved, however, its
repercussions will be felt. Said Willingham,
“Just the fact that it happened at Davidson,
where we think everything is so safe, is scary.”

THE

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN _

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.G. - MARY SALDPEK, A.B.0.
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY 8
EMPLOYEES A 20% DISCOUNT ON EYEWEAR
AND SPECIAL PRICES ON EYE EXAMS.

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUC
AUTHORIZED ZEISS ~ VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

By Casey Sas

Staff Writer

On the Union Patio last Monday, CNN had
a video camera set up to record any question
that a Davidson student could conjure.

The students selected will not simply re-

ceive answers to their questions. They will ©

hear their queries answered on national tele-
vision by an expert in that particular field.

As part of its “Ask CNN” feature, the
network is visiting collegés across the nation
in the search of insightful questions. Each
day during 2001, a one-minute response will
be shown six times throughout the day an-
swering the question.

Twenty students showed up to participate.
The CNN representative, who graduated from
Davidson in 1998, said many students are
simply shy around camera. She said most of

the (questions woul appear on fl oe
questions were off-limits as long as =
could be answered with a reasonable expla-
nation.

The topics could range from international
affairs to astronomy. Some of the questions
that students had were, “Why, after ten years,
have the Atlanta Braves only won one World
Series?” and, “How are Social Security num-
bers developed?

Students had to sign a release form allow-
ing their piece to be aired, and the entire
process was relatively painless. Once on
camera, the questioner was told to give his or
her name, home state, and question.

CNN officials said they hope to get a wide
variety of questions from a range of back-
grounds that amply represent the interests of
American youth.

David Wheeler, and Julia Philpott

By Resecca Moore
Health Advisor

- “Smoke Out” will make its annual ap-
pearance at Davidson College this year on
November 16th. With all of the knowledge,
talk, and hype about the perils of tobacco
smoking, marijuana smoking tends to fall
by the wayside on this important day. How-
ever, marijuana comes with many of the
same dangers as tobacco.

Both substances put foreign materials into
-your lungs, such as tar, carbon monoxide,
and. cyanide. The active ingredient in mari-
juana, THC, has not been shown to be car-
cinogenic like tobacco; hov ver, the other

The Student Health Advisors are, from peyine to right: Stephani Courchesne, Rebecca —

the smoke, but some of it sat still get into
your lungs. People who smoke filtered
cigarettes still get cancer and lung prob-
Jems.

The short term effects of marijuana in-
clude problems with memory and learning,
short attention span, distorted perception of
time, sound, sight, and touch, paranoia, hal-
lucinations, anxiety, and panic attacks, as
well as sore throat, dry mouth, and fatigue.
Over a long period of time, smoking mari-
juana can cause permanent memory loss,
infertility, personality changes, a weakened
immune system, and Psychological =.
dence. —
Marijuana, like tobacco, has avery nega

