Davidson Welcomes Three ‘New "Coaghes:-to7 e

Football Coach Mike Toop

BY JACKIE DAVIDSON
Staff Writer

The Wildcat football team etched its
name in Davidson’s gridiron history books
by finishing its 2000 season 10-0, marking
the first unblemished record in 103 seasons of
football at the college. How well the 2001
‘Cats follow up last year’s undefeated season
depends upon how well they respond to
change—in particular, the hiring of a new
head coach and the loss of players instru-
mental to last year’s success.

photo courtesy Sports Information

The Cats begin the season with their
third coach in as many years. Replacing 2000
Wildcat coach Joe Susan is former Univer-
sity of Connecticut Defensive Coordinator

Mike Toop.
' Toop brings an impressive resume: two
seasons at both Albany State University and
Union College; five seasons at Colgate Uni-
versity; and seven seasons as defensive coor-
dinator and linebacker coach for the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania, during which the team
captured the Ivy League Championship three
times. In 1995, Toop was named American
Football Quarterly Magazine’s National Di-
vision I-AA Defensive Coordinator of the
Year.

Despite an impressive track record, Toop
must combat a conference change as well as
the loss of several key players from last year’s
gifted squad.

__ The loss of : starters on both sides of the
ball also means increased responsibilities for
several Wildcats. While Paul Nichols re-
turns as the Cats’ starting QB, a core of
running backs—particularly freshman John
Leverett—will have the difficult task of fill-
ing the huge shoes left by graduate Bryan
Fish. In addition, the Cats will need big years
from both senior Mike Tarver and sopho-
more Randall Hardy, two of the team’s pri-
mary receivers. The sure-handed junior Mike
Chase, who will see more touches as he
moves from tight end to wide receiver, will
also be expected to heavily contribute to the
Wildcat offensive attack. Defensively, the
Cats will have to rely on the Elmore twins to
help compensate for the loss of All-Ameri-
can Ryan Crawford in the Wildcat second-
ary:

While a multitude of changes marks
new beginnings for the Wildcats, much is
still expected from this year’s team. Prior to
the beginning of the season, Davidson was
ranked fourth in the Sports Network I-AA
Mid-Major Top 10 Poll. Only time will tell
if the ‘Cats can live up to expectations.

Soccer Coach Matt Spear

BY NICHOLAS CARLSON
Staff Writer

Newhead men’s soccer Coach Matt Spear
has come home—at least that’s how he feels.

A captain of Davidson’s 1992 Confer-
ence-winning team, Spear knows the school,
the team, and the competition. While moving
on to the business and marketing end of soccer
after graduation, Spear served as a part-time
assistant coach for five years under predeces-
sor Charlie Slagle.

“It’s definitely a dream come true,” said
Spear of his new position, “I’ve always en-
joyed being a part of Davidson.”

The dream had a fast start as the Wildcats
won their first tournament of the year, the
Holiday Inn Centre City Classic. The team
won one game and lost another, capturing the
tournament on goal-differential.

As exciting as that may seem, Coach
Spear means to temper the enthusiasm. “We
really want to peak around the second week in
November,” he said.

" Spear hopes to have his team fully pre-

pared for first-ranked Furman in November.
Furman likely presents the largest obstacle

for the team to overcome on its way to a
successful season. “To get to the NCAA
tournament is definitely the goal for us,” said

photo courtesy Sports Information

Spear. “[Furman is] a great team and it’s going
to be really important to beat them.”

With the season now underway, Matt
Spear can now hope to turn a dream job into a
dream season.

Field Hockey Coach
Christy Morgan

By Liz Gross *
Staff Writer

Last Saturday’s win over American
University marked the team’s second con-
secutive victory of the season under the di-
rection of new head coach Christy Morgan.
The Davidson field hockey team achieved a
landmark of 200 overall wins with this show-
down victory. Junior Agnes Bateman scored
the solitary goal of the match off her own
rebound, leading the team to the 1-0 victory.
The previous weekend, the ‘Cats cruised toa
solid 4-0 victory over Longwood, out-shoot-
ing their humble opponents 27-11.

“We definitely played as a team against
Longwood,” said Morgan. “We started a
little slow, but we grew throughout the game
and it was a great opportunity to see where
we are and who will be stepping up during

the season.”

Morgan, a previous Olympian and coach
within the U.S. Field Hockey Program, brings
an interesting new dimension to the field
hockey team during her first season. “I be-
lieve in first preparing the mind and then the
body,” she said. “Skill will come when you
develop the right mindset.” This includes prac-
ticing visualization techniques and doing in-
spirational readings with the team—part of
Morgan’s goal to develop the whole person.
“T was really drawn to Davidson because of
the quality of people here,” she said. “I enjoy
the opportunity to work with overachievers.”

The Wildcats face a challenging season
up ahead, confronting some established pow-
erhouses such as Duke and Wake Forest. The
team, however, is taking everything one step
at a time to focus on the present moment. “We
want to get the most out of every game, every
opportunity, every practice, and every ball,”
says assistant coach Amy Tice.

No limits, however, are being set. “When

photo courtesy Sports Information

it comes right down to it, we can be whatever
we want to be,” says Morgan.

The Wildcats’ next home game will be
this Saturday, September 8, as they host Ap-
palachian State in their second NorPac Con-
ference match.

New assistant

CompiLED By CAROLINE HAUSER
Editor

Brian Fork
Football

A 2001 Davidson graduate, former full-
back Brian Fork returns to Richardson Sta-
dium as an assistant football coach. A native
.of Raleigh, NC, he was an athletic and aca-
demic all-conference quarterback at Needham
Broughton High School and spent two years
at N.C. State before transferring to Davidson.
As asenior Wildcat, Fork scored a significant
touchdown in the close (20-17) victory over
Centre College.

Adam Johnson
Women’s Cross Country/Track

After finishing seventh in the 2000 South-
ern Conference championships, the women’s
cross-country team is optimistic about the
upcoming season—due in part to new assis-
tant coach Adam Johnson. Johnson was a
captain of his team at Centre College in
Danville, Ky. He graduated in 1997 and im-
mediately beganas assistant coach to both the
men’s and women’s teams before moving on
as an assistant coach at Miami University. In
addition to his cross country position, Johnson
wil] work with track sprinters and field events
athletes i in the spring.

coaches arrive

Amy Tice -
Field Hockey

New field hockey coach Amy Tice
arrives at Davidson after successful
coaching positions at Archbishop John
Carroll High School in Radnor, PA
(1994-96) and, most recently, at Cen-
tral Michigan University. Tice spent
her undergraduate career at James Madi-
son University. In addition to leading
the field hockey team, she was an Aca-
demic All-American (1992-94) and a
Colonial Athletic Conference Scholar
Athlete (1992-93).

Amber Grahn
Volleyball

Amber Grahn, a former MVP and team
captain at Wake Forest University, joins
the volleyball team as assistant coach.
After graduating WFU in 2000, she spent
a year in Austria’s professional league
as outside hitter for the HYPO Bank
Volleyball Club. While there she also
spent time promoting the sport through
youth-leagueclinics. During her colle-
giate years, Grahn worked as an assis-
tant summer camp coach and head coach
for pre-teen teams.

In their own words...

“I'm really looking forward to continue the winning tradition that
Davidson has created over the last few years.”

——Coach Toop

“It’s definitely a dream come true...I’ ve always enjoyed being a part

of Davidson.”
——Coach Spear

“I was really drawn to Davidson because of the quality of people
here...I enjoy the opportunity to work with overachievers.”
——Coach Morgan

