DAvIDSON COLLEGE

@ ALENDA LU

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 10

Council approves change in plagiarism definition

Honor Council reaches
consensus, but concerns
linger after year of debate

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

More than a year’s worth of work came to
fruition on Monday when the Honor Council
approved a resolution to change the Honor
Code.

Despite the intense discussion, thought and
time that went into the proposal, the process
of altering the Code is not yet over—and some
close to it still have doubts about the sug-
gested change.

The issue in question is the Honor Code’s
definition of plagiarism. The current word-

NOTHING A LITTLE PAINT CAN’T FIX : The possibility of a surplus of

ing of the Code places plagiarism as a subset
of cheating. However, the term “cheating”
implies, intent — which, some argue, is not
always anecessary component of plagiarism.

“Different faculty have vastly varying in-
terpretations of what it [intent] is,” explained
Mike Anderson’ 02, policy chair of the Honor
Council. “It’s hard to infer intent from a
student’s paper — was it a benign accident, or
a malicious intent to deceive? We’ ve learned
that words can be very blunt instruments
when you try to cut through all the intricacies
of potential Honor Council hearings.”

Part of the problem is the idea that a student
who did have intent would simply lie to the
Honor Council and say that he or she never
meant to plagiarize. Even in the most egre-
gious cases, proving otherwise would be dif-
ficult and the student would most likely be
acquitted, said Anderson. Several members

students on campus this spring has led to emergency housing
options including converted lounges and vending areas.

RLO prepares for housing
crunch in wake of attacks

Cancelled study abroad
plans leave more students
on campus this spring’

By Tracy BANGHART
- Staff Writer

Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, much
concern has been raised over the availability
of spring semester housing at Davidson.

Fear generated by the attacks has resulted
in fewer students choosing to go abroad next
semester, leaving fewer rooms open to stu-
dents planning to return from overseas. The
situation has left many asking if there will be
enough beds on campus in 2002.

Leslie Marsicano, Dean of Students and
Director of the Residence Life Office, shares
the concern. Since Sept. 11, Marsicano has
received word from many students whose
parents asked them to cancel their spring
study abroad plans.

In response to such changes, RLO con-
ducted surveys to determine students’ gen-
eral interest in studying abroad this spring. In
the effort to gauge student opinion on emer-

gency housing options, members of the SGA
were asked to fill out a survey that contained

a choice of living. spaces.

Such options included hotel rooms in
Cornelius, College-owned houses off-cam-
pus, trailers on campus, the use of lounges as
rooms and even the remodeling of “rooms on
campus not originally designed as bedrooms,”
such as vending areas.

RLO has also discussed the possibility of

allowing more students than usual to apply
for off-campus housing next semester.
’ A primary concern with all emergency
housing options has been the availability of
phone and Internet lines. Concerns have also
been raised. concerning transportation for
those students forced off campus.

Although RLO prepared for the worst in
terms of housing next semester, the situation

has fortunately become more manageable.

Marsicano said she is, “not as concerned as I
was this time last month” and doesn’t think
there will be a need for hotels or trailers next
semester.

RLO won’t receive any official numbers

see RLO, page 4 —

of the Honor Council therefore proposed
changing the wording of the Honor Code so
that students who did intend to plagiarize
would no longer be able to exploit the implicit
loophole, he said.

The first proposed change was to set pla-
giarism apart from cheating, and define it as
“characterized by intent or gross negligence.”
The term “gross” was discarded in favor of
the more moderate “unreasonable,” and it
was in this form that the proposed change first
became public knowledge last spring:

Little action was taken, however, until stu-
dents returned to campus this August. Ander-
son attributed this, in part, to a lack of a
timeline. “This fall Will [Parker ‘02, Honor
Council Chair] and Tara [Davidson ‘02, Honor
Council Secretary] and I mapped out a strat-
egy—committee meetings, public forums,
and individual discussions with faculty mem-

bers—to structure the discussion,” said Ander-
son. “That strategy has run its course, and we
feel like we have the consensus necessary to
move forward.”

In the course of this fall’s discussion,
however, the term “unreasonable” came un-
der harsh fire from Davidson’ s faculty, many
of whom said that the word was open to too
much interpretation. This modifier was there-
fore removed from the proposal.

“We knew that we needed to accommodate
faculty concerns,” said Anderson. “After all,
faculty faith and support in the Code is vital
— we appreciated their professional advice,
and incorporated it into our resolution.”

If the change is passed in its current form,
the Honor Code will read, “Plagiarism is

see Honor Code, page 2

SAE aquitted on two of
three counts by J-Board

Fraternity will sponsor
educational awareness
program in response to
Oct. 6 late-night incident

By Timotuy Cook
Managing Editor

Sigma Alpha Epsilon was found not guilty
on two of the three counts brought before
the Patterson Court Judiciary Board last
Thursday night. The next day, Dean of
Students Tom Shandley approved J-Board’s
decision.

SAE was found guilty of the first charge
of not stopping members or guests from
throwing beer cans and shouting anti-gay
epithets at the victims, Rory Adams ‘04 and
his friend, Joe, who does not attend
Davidson.

J-Board ruled that SAE is to draw up a
resolution on how they will continue to
handle the matter. Patterson Court Council

President and SAE brother Mathew
Arbuckle ‘02 said that one of the ideas in the
proposal is ahomosexuality awareness pro-
gram, which is tentatively scheduled for
later this month. He hopes that this program
will show that some good has come from
the incident.

The incident in question occurred on Oct.
6 at SAE’s annual open “Tacky Party,”
during which Adams reported that he and
his friend were struck by beer cans and
taunted with anti-gay slurs from the porch
of the fraternity house.

Adams said he was pleased with the out-
come, as he had expressed.earlier that he
didn’t want SAE to get into trouble and was
very happy to know that it was planning the
awareness program.

The J-Board hearing was closed to the
student body, but SAE invited a few mem-
bers of the community, including the vic-
tims. The actual proceedings of the hearing
will remain undisclosed in accordance with
the Honor Code.

SAE is tentatively planning to sponsor
the program on Nov. 28 at 7 p.m., but has
not decided on a location.

son Friday at Halton Arena against the Char-
lotte 49ers. Tip-off is set for 8:05 p.m.
Davidson hasn’t beaten its cross-county
rival since 1996, but with last season’s
nucleus returning intact, there is hope that
this could be the year for an upset.
See preview box on page 9 for details.

~The men’s basketball team -opens its sea~___

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
Dr. Cythia Lewis previews the Royal
Shakespeare Company’s upcoming visit.

Arts & Living 5-6

Battle of the Bands held last weekend.

Perspectives 7-8

Students respond to professor’s oppo-
sition to war in Afghanistan

Sports 9-12

Football team hangs on for 17-12 win
over Austin Peay to close out year.

