By MIKE ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

As Charleston head coach John Kresse
prepared his scouting report for Davidson, he
focused on a few familiar names: Wayne
Bernard, Martin Ides and Emeka Erege.

But after his team lost 68-65 to Davidson
on Saturday, it was a different name that
haunted Kresse: Jouni Eho.

The 6-6 freshman forward scorched
Charleston on Saturday—coming off the
bench with 17 points in just 24 minutes of
court time. He connected on each of his three
three-point attempts, went 4-5 from the field,
and hit 6 of his 8 free-throw attempts.

All that on the heels of a slow-starting
freshman season in which Eho averaged just
four points a game.

“Jouni Eho has become a tremendous rookie
in this league,” said Kresse after the game.
“He really seems to be coming on. He’s just
a rugged player who knows how to play.”

And, in some ways, he’s just beginning to
learn.

Eho hails from Vantaa, Finland, where
basketball is a relatively obscure sport. The
schools don’t field basketball teams, so Eho
grew up instead as a soccer player.

“Basketball was not so popular,” he said,
“especially in the northern part of the country
where I grew up.”

But the tall, lanky son of a preacher even-
tually discovered basketball. And then Bob
McKillop discovered Jouni Eho.

Pakka Salminen, a McKillop friend,
coached Eho on a YMCA club team in Lahti,
Finland, and invited. the Wildcats coach to
come watch the team play.

So McKillop flew to Finland. And shortly
thereafter, Eho was bound for North Caro-
lina. ,

But his path to Division I American bas-
ketball was not without a few obstacles. Chief
among them, Eho (like all Finnish young

men) incurred obligatory military service
before he could venture to the United States
and pursue his dream.

Eho spent a year as a scout in the Finnish
army, completing 50-mile hikes through the
mountains and icy swims across icy lakes.

He recalls thinking to himself, “Why did I
have to join the Army? Why can’t I just
concentrate on the game that I love?”

But what Eho deferred in practice time he
made up for with accrued maturity.

When he arrived on campus last fall, assis-
tant coach Matt Matheny said, “Jouni has a
leg up on the majority of freshmen players in
the conference because he’s mature. He’s a

”

man.

With a year of grueling military service
under his belt and his trans-Atlantic migra-
tion behind him, one would think that fate
owed Eho some smooth sailing. But it was
not yet to be.

Ehoarrived stateside and was overwhelmed
by the different style of play in America.

“As the season developed,” Matheny ex-
plained, “Jouni experienced some growing
pains. He had to make some adjustments to
the type of play that he was going to see night
in and night out—adjusting himself to Ameri-
can basketball as compared to European bas-
ketball.”

“IT wasn’t sure what to expect when I got .

here,” Eho said. “My goal coming into the
season was to adapt to our system—I knew
every minute of court time I earned would be
a personal victory.”

Despite a few flashes early on, Eho didn’t
click into the system at first and court minutes
seemed few and far between.

“T didn’t quite find myself for a while in our
system,” he said. “I wasn’t getting my natural
shots from the floor. I wasn’t getting into the
flow of the game.”

But then two things happened. Eho began
toacclimate himself to the faster-paced Ameri-
can version of the sport. And a strong season

by Martin Ides enabledthe
Wildcats’ to alter their of-
fense—shifting from a
three-out / two-in system,
to an offensive scheme
centered: around Ides in
the middle with four pe-
rimeter players.

“In the new system,”
Jouni described, “Ihave a
lot more freedom to move
outside from the four-po--
sition. And I also learned
to set screens well, be-
cause that opened up
teammates and in turn
drew help defenders away
from me.” ,

And things began to
click.

Eho combined for 29
points in a pair of late-
season conference games
against Wofford and
Furman. Then he erupted
for a clutch 17 against
Charleston.

“Now Jouni under-
stands the pace of the |
game,” said Matheny. “A |
few months ago, the game
was flying by him and he
wasn’t having time to set
himself and shoot. Now

Caro Perez-Heydrich

Jouni Eho prepares to pass during Saturday’s

he’s catching the ball and 68-65 win over College of Charleston on Satur-

ready to fire.
knocking them down.”

Never was this more apparent than with
1:17 remaining at Belk Arena on Saturday.

Wayne Bernard drove the lane from the left
wing, drawing help-side defenders and giv-
ing Eho just enough breathing room at the top
of the arc. As the defense collapsed, Bernard
kicked the ball out to Eho, who fired up a go-
ahead basket without a moment’s hesitation.

And he’s 4@y at Belk Arena.

It swished through the net, as he knew it
would.
_ “That was a big-time shot from Jouni,”
said Matheny.

If the past few weeks are any indication, it
certainly won’t be his last.

Injury-ridden Lady Wildcats hobble into Greenville

Davidson, seeded ninth, plays Wofford at 5 p.m. Thursday in the first round of the .
women’s tournament at Timmons Arena on the campus of Furman University. The
winner will go on to face No. 1 seed Chattanooga Friday afternoon.

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

Here we go again.

After a bruising 18-game conference sched-
ule, 10 Southern Conference women’s squads
are bracing for a roughshod weekend in
Greenville, S.C.—host city of a season-end-
ing tournament that has beén nothing if not
unpredictable over recent seasons.

On face value} it would seem that the com-
petition gap couldn’t be wider. On the front
end, top-seeded Chattanooga enters the tour-
nament with a stunning Ratings Percentage
Index (RPI) of No. 54—one spot better than
perennial powerhouse Old Dominion.

Bringing up the rear, Appalachian State
ranks a woeful 289th out of 316 teams ranked.

Davidson enters this tournament just two
years’ removed from a remarkable run that
came to an end in the 1999 championship
game. But this season, a beleaguered Wild-

cats squad will roll into Greenville with woe-
' fully low expectations. _

Depleted by injuries and plagued by incon-
sistency, Davidson has struggled to a 9-18
overall record this season.
~ Faced with the loss of three starters, coach

John Filar turned to an unproven but ener-
getic young bench to pick up the slack. Nine
different Wildcats have joined the starting
lineup this season, including three freshmen.

“It’s been tough to reckon with the loss of
so many impact players,” Filar said. “But the
silver lining has been that we’ ve been able to
throw so many different players into the mix.
A lot of girls have earned some valuable
experience.”

Now the hope is to convert that experience
into a concerted run in tournament play.

But that will be no small task.

Only once this season have the ’Cats won
back-to-back conference games (against

ETSU and College of Charleston in late Janu- ©

ary). And to make matters worse, it appears
that they will square off against No. 9 Wofford
in the first-round of play at Timmons Arena.

The Terriers have had an up-and-down
season (finishing 7-11. in conference play)
but have dominated action against Davidson
this season—dispensing of the Wildcats by-a
combined 44 points in two meetings.

“T wish I could explain (our success against
Davidson),” said Terriers head coach David
Graves. “If I had the formula for success, I’d
be sure to use it every time. We just had two
situations (against Davidson) where we pre-
pared our players very well for what to expect
and our kids executed perfectly.”

To survive the opening round, Davidson

niga:
ACL tear—out since Jan. 6)

ankle—out since. Jan. 16).

Aone THE INJURED
@Junior captain Bethany Schott (tom ACL—missed all season)

@Junior guard Dee Taylor ite knee surgeries—missed all sea-
@Junior forward Leah Uhernik (a fourth, and ely career-ending

@Freshmen, point guard Ashley Hallsted (stress fracture above lot

must first contain Wofford’ s perimeter threats:
Jenny Nett and Natalie Walsh combined for

48 points (21 of those from behind the arc) in

the Terrier’s 85-58 victory over the ‘Cats on
February 17.

“Davidson is not somebody we look for-
ward to playing,” said Graves. “They’re tough
to match up with and they create a lot of
problems for us. But we like to think that we
do the same for them.”

Whoever wins that match-up will meet
Chattanooga in round two. Wes Moore’s
Lady Mocs enter this year’s tournament with
a 15-3 conference record—and an eagerness
to avenge their early exit in last year’s semi-
finals.

But unlike last season, Chattanooga is not
the lone superpower in the SoCon. Georgia
Southern also notched a 15-3 record this
year, thanks in large part to a ten-game win
streak to close out the season.

Greensboro (14-4) and Furman (11-6)—
who faced off in last year’s championship
game—also pose legitimate threats.

“Youcan throw seedings out when it comes
tournament time,” Graves said. “On any
given night, you’d better bring your ‘A game’
or there’s a great chance that you’re gonna
lose.”
