DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 5, 2001

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 12

Rumors of housing
crunch prove false

RLO director says
campus housing will
not be limited in
wake of attacks

By Co.in EAGAN
News Editor

As it is now popularly rumored on cam-
pus, the disruption of spring study abroad
plans due to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
has spelled a potential shortage of student
housing in 2002.

With the approach of Christmas break,
many students currently abroad fear they
will return to find there is not enough room
in the Davidson inn.

However, it appears that no returning
students will be relegated to residence in
any local stable—or even Motel 6.

“As it turns out, there really isn’t a hous-
ing crunch this semester,” said Dean Leslie
Marsicano, Director of the Residence Life
Office (RLO).

Uncertainty surrounding the availability
of housing had grown from an uncertainty
of students’ desire to maintain their study
abroad plans for the spring semester, given
the threat to national security posed by the
terrorist attacks. .

Official paperwork confirming such
plans was not due to the Study Abroad
Office untill Nov. 15.

However, it now seems that most who
had originally planned to leave campus
next spring will in fact be doing so.

“Students were later than usual finaliz-
ing their plans, but in the end only a few

less than usual are going on leave,” said
Marsicano.

Most students who had intended to go
abroad are still planning to, though many

have changed their destinations to ‘safer’

world regions. Still others have opted for

domestic programs.

As an additional help to the housing
situation, more students than usual have
requested off-campus housing permission
for next semester, freeing more beds on
campus.

In anticipation of a potential housing
crunch, RLO conducted surveys earlier
this semester to determine students’ gen-
eral interest in studying abroad this spring.

In the effort to pole student opinion on
emergency housing options, members of

‘the SGA were asked to fill out a survey that

contained a choice of living arrangements.

Such options included hotel rooms in
Cornelius, college-owned houses off cam-
pus, trailers on campus, the use of lounges
as rooms, and even the remodeling of
“rooms on campus not originally designed
as bedrooms,” such as vending areas.

It appears now that none of these emer-
gency options will be necessary.

Students seem pleased: “The Super 8
Motel isn’t so super after you’ve lived
there a few months,” commented Hak Shin
Park ’04.

‘Marsicano and her staff have reason to
be pleased as well, as a potential housing
ordeal has—at least for the moment—been
avoided.

“It looks like things will work out t and
we will have enough beds for everyone,”
Marsicano said, “although not necessarily
in the residence hall or with the roommate
they prefer.”

Forum sparks dialogue
on homosexuality

By MatTr Gineutp
Managing Editor

The president of the Davidson Gay Stu-
dent Alliance said last Wednesday’s fo-
rum on homosexuality didn’t solve the
diversity issue at Davidson. But it was a
pretty good start.

“TI was really pleased to see how many
members of the Court scene turned out,”
said junior Alison Shea on Tuesday.
“Rather than just sitting there waiting for it
to be over, they really participated.”

_ “One program isn’t going to change ev-
erything. I think it was a big step though.”

About 110 students attended the forum,
which was co-sponsored by the Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon fraternity in response to an
Oct. 6 incident in which beer cans were
thrown at a homosexual couple from the
fraternity’s porch during its annual “Tacky
Party.”

The Patterson Court Judiciary Board
convicted SAE on Nov. 8 for not stopping
members or guests from throwing beer
cans and shouting anti-gay epithets at
sophomore Rory Adams and his compan-
ion. The house was acquitted on two other
charges.

PCC President and SAE member Matt
Arbuckle said the forum was aimed at

bringing about good from the incident.

Shea believes it succeeded.

“SAE really reached out to try to correct
a problem that had been made evident by
an incident at their house,” she said. “They
showed how committed they were to ac-
cepting diversity.”

Gary Palmer of the Gay, Lesbian and
Straight Education Network (GLSEN),
moderated the 90-minute event, which he

See Forum, page 2

HRISTMAS at DAVIDSON

Students sang carols by candlelight at the Dec. 3 campus

Christmas party, which featured hot cider, ringing bells
and Santa Claus rappelling down the side of Chambers.

Enforcement of quiet
hours will be modified

SGA committee
comes to agreement
on weekday parties

By Linpy BALDWIN

News Editor

In the weeks leading up to Thanksgiving

Break, one issue on Davidson minds was the ~

question of quiet hours on Patterson Court.
Many students felt that being forced to leave
houses at midnight on weekdays deprived
them of opportunities to socialize.

On Nov. 1, Gray Patterson 03 made a
presentation to the Committee on Cultural
and Religious Life, suggesting that the policy
be reviewed; in response, the CCRL set up an
ad hoc committee to review the way that quiet
hours are enforced on the Court. The ques-
tion was also brought up at the Nov. 14 social
forum, with some students suggesting a

change in the Red Book itself.

It now appears that such a change will be
unnecessary. The ad hoc committee has
succeeded in reaching an agreement on how
the current policy will be implemented in the
future.

Student members of the committee were
Patterson, a member of KA; Laura Booher
’02, president of Warner; David Kunes ’02,a
member of PiKA; Graham Watson, president
of KA; Umar Haider ’03, president-elect of
PiKA and Grant West ‘02, the President of
Kappa Sigma. Dean of Students Thomas
Shandley and Assistant Dean of Residence
Life Leslie Urban were also in attendance.
Sam McKelvey, the Director of Public Safety,
and Jim Lyons, associate Director of Public
Safety, rounded out the committee.

According to Patterson, when students and
public safety took a look at the current policy
it became apparent that the officers had been

see Quiet, page 2

A little stressed over exams?
Take a study break with a
few study tips to help you
handle the holiday pressure.
See articles on page 4.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
College officials announce first Lilly
Scholars. Page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6
Boy Gets Girl reviewed. Page 5.
Perspectives 7-8

President Vagt offers his thoughts on
the next steps in the discussion on social
life. Page 7.

Sports 9-12
' Wildcat men’s hoops notches fourth
straight win. Page 12.

