COMEBACK, from page 7

With Charleston in a tailspin, Davidson —

blitzed with two minutes remaining. Ides

flicked a shot over Lumpkin’s outstretched .

arms to bring the Wildcats within two again.
Emeka Erege stripped Leighton Bowie, set-
ting up the go-ahead three-point basket by
Eho.

Davidson took a precarious one-pointlead,
64-63, and Charleston panicked.

Bolton missed a three and Bowie fouled
Eho, who promptly netted two more points
from the line and pushed Davidson’s lead to
’ three with 40 seconds to play. The Cougars
returned after a timeout only to pull the same
chaotic stunt—miss a long three then commit
a foul. This time it was Michael Bree, who
went to the line and increased Davidson’s
lead to four.

The Cougars scrambled to get a shot off. A
Jeff Bolton three-point attempt careened off
the rim, but Troy Wheless grabbed the offen-
sive rebound and gave Bolton another chance.
It wasn’t meant tobe. Ides rebounded Bolton’s
second attempt and drew an unintentional
foul from freshman guard Quint Hollis.

As the disheartened Cougars trudged to the
opposite end of the floor and readied for
another Wildcat free throw exhibition, Ides
and Bernard erupted into a chest-bumping,
fist-pumping celebration underneath the Cou-
gars’ basket.

Ides made the first free throw, uncoiling
his long arm out in front of him and pointing
at the floor to punctuate the ball dropping
through the net. It was the Wildcats’ 68th and

Caro Perez-Heydrich

As a loose ball. tumbles out of bounds, coach Bob McKillop
scrambles to aviod interfering while Wayne Bernard (#34) and Nick
Booker pull up to avoid a collision with two Charleston players.

final point, the capstone of an unrelenting
comeback attack. Ides’ second attempt just
had too much zip. But who could blame him?

Ides finished the night with 13 points, third
in scoring behind Eho’s career-high 17 and
Wayne Bernard’s 19. That Ides didn’t com-
mit his fifth and final foul out is a testament to
how carefully and intelligently the Wildcats
played those last four minutes. The energy
and skill of Eho and Bernard accounted for 13

of the Wildcats’ last 17 points, a dominating
run that Davidson will try to pick up against
Wofford at noon on Thursday in Greenville,

SC.

“Our players have taken some serious steps
forward in these last 10 days that have given
us some momentum as we go into the tourna-
ment,” said McKillop. “And a week ago,

that’s something that we weren’t sure we —

‘Ja team.

were going to have.”

THE COMPETITION

An unpredicatable season has left the conference tournament without a obvious favorite

When the first-place team starts worrying about being in a dogfight,
it’s time to admit just how competitive—and unpredictable—South-
ern Conference basketball has been this season.

“It’s going to be a dogfight for seeding down the stretch,” said
College of Charleston head coach John Kresse during a recent
teleconference. ‘“When.the conference tournament begins, who
knows who’s going to win?”

Kresse’s Cougars lead the South Division with
a 10-3 record, and despite a few late-season hic-
cups, the Cougars remain firmly in command of
the South. But if the entrenched first-place team
doesn’t feel safe, should anyone?

In the North, perennial championship contend-
ers Davidson and Appalachian State are fighting
to finish third this year while ETSU and UNC
Greensboro spar for first place. The Bucs and the Spartans have been
on the rise for the last three seasons, but rebuilding at Davidson and
App State has significantly boosted the teams’ ascent through the
North Division ranks.

Though not as dominant as they once were, the Cougars of College

of Charleston again have controlled the South Division, although two -

February losses—one at ETSU and another at The Citadel—have
slowed the Cougars’ march.

“T think people are finally realizing that teams like College of
Charleston can be beat,”’ Georgia Southern head coach Jeff Price said.

“The lower teams can beat the higher teams. I think this can make for
an interesting tournament.”

A tumultuous two weeks for the Cougars handed them al4-point
loss at ETSU, which inspired a 67-31 thrashing of Furman four days
later only to have it overshadowed by the 62-58 loss to cross-town
rival The Citadel, which has found new life in the closing weeks of the
regular season.

Last place Wofford scored over a hundred points
en route to a 105-69 victory over Chattanooga,
which stands locked in a three-way tie for second
place in the South.

As teams come together at the close of the
season and position themselves for the tourna-
ment, one would expect the leading teams to begin
distancing themselves from third and forth place

contenders.

But in the wacky Southern Conference, where this season’s talent
is spread broadly across the entire conference instead of being isolated
within just a handful of teams, no is taking anything for granted this
year.

“When I got here, there were games you could count on winning,”
said Chattanooga head coach Henry Dickerson, “But now you can’t
count on anything.”

Except some dogfights.

Burgin Hardin

FIRST ROUND FOE

Davidson will play Wofford Thursday at noon at the Bi-Lo Center in Greenville, S.C., in the first round of the
Southern Conference Champioinship. The winner will face College of Charleston Friday afternoon.

Worrorp (12-15, 7-9 SoCon). The Terriers ended Davidson’s season in the first round of the tournament
last year by the score of 65-64 when Ian Chadwick hit a jumper with 2.8 seconds left.

The team has struggled much of this season and currently sits in last place in the South Division. Don’t
be fooled though; Wofford slammed Chattanooga 105-69 on Feb. 13.

Strength: Hot-shooting backcourt of Chadwick and Nixon

Against Davidson: 83-73 win on Feb. 5. No one has tormented the Cats like Chadwick, who also scored
27 points in Wofford’s 83-73 win on Feb. 5.

But the real surprise of that game was sophomore Lee Nixon. He entered the game averaging seven points,
W Ae) F FO R D but on this night dropped in 31 points on 11-for-16 shooting.
Chadwick and Nixon scored a combined 58 points, nearly 70 percent of Wofford’s total.

Charting the last four — of victory “st

College of Charleston ‘coach
said the Wildcats were the worst thing to
the city since Huiricane Hugo.
Saturday’s rematch was in a different!
location, but it ended with the same result: a
thrilling Davidson victory at Belk Arena,
this time by the score of 68-65.
As I watched the game, I couldn’ thelp but
think how much Charleston must really
despise us. In their conference debut two
years ago, the Cougars came to Belk Arena
undefeated and underestimating Davidson.
We ended up losing that year by four
points as the result of a miraculous Charles-
ton run. The Cougars gained momentum
and went on to sweep the conference on
their way to the NCAA tournament. It filled
them with confidence in their capabilities as

For those 40 minutes, more than 1,000
classmates and I truly believed that we in-
fluenced the course of events on the court.
Werimmed out those Charleston free throws
with our whoops and hollers. We forced
turnovers with our exuberant chants. Our
lost the game, but the support we provided
may have kept us in it.

Fast-forward to Saturday. Even after an
impressive win over The Citadel on Mon-
day, no one really expected Davidson to
outplay one of the best mid-major programs
on the East Coast. It would be deemed an
upset if we were to walk away with the win.

It appeared for a while that the Wildcats
were “dead and buried,” as McKillop would
say later. Down 10 with under five minutes
to play, Davidson went on a furious rally to
stun Charleston and score its best victory of
the season.

In recent months, the buzz around cam-
pus has been critical of the ‘Cats perfor-
mance. Why can’t we ‘finish’ games when
we are so close to winning? I suspect that if
someone knew the answer to this question,
our record would have been much better and
attendance would have been considerably
higher. The team has struggled. The coaches
have struggled. The fans have struggled too.
But often times, success is found in over-
coming adversity. :
Former Davidson basketball coach Bobby
Hussey said once, “Anytime you lose more
than you win, everything is magnifi
The ‘Cats have done well not be burnt alive
by the power of that magnifying glass this
season. Saturday’s upset of the College of
Charleston by our beloved “Cats capped off
aseason full of more highs and lows than the
temperature in recent weeks.

The coaches and players can only hope
the win will be the impetus in the progress of
Davidson basketball over the course of the
next week. Every coach will tell you that it
all comes down to tournament time. The
regular season is long forgotten once tour-|
nament play begins. The championsh :
banner becomes peda rend: s sights.

the BiLo Center in Greenville, $
ee te ee

ence.
Reoemierthe jock
Jody Lumpkin’s face W
Davidson had beaten | hi

