“We? ve lost Dale Earnhardt” J

Stock car racing legend Dale Earnhardt, a
seven-time Winston Cup champion, died Sun-
day afternoon from injuries he suffered in a
crash on the final lap of the Daytona 500. A
native of nearby Kannapolis, NC, Earnhardt
was widely considered the greatest driver in
the history of the sport. He was 49.

Not like this. Never like this.

When I found out that Dale Earnhardt had
been killed in a wreck at Daytona, the only
thing I could think of was - not like this.

“The Intimidator,” as he was often called,
was as tough as
any sports figure
comes. I remem-
ber watching him climb out of countless
wrecks with only the steering wheel and his

JinMy Burrort

\ Ley

end Passes

seat. How could the “Man in Black” have

been killed?

As Earnhardt held off traffic - he just
missed seeing his son, Dale Earnhardt |
Jr., and his car driven by his buddy #
Michael Waltrip sprint to the finish 7
and win NASCAR’s crown jewel, the ©
Daytona 500.

The Intimidator was killed instantly
in the wreck, and many people
will say he died
doing what he gj
loved and that
would have
been the way he
wanted to .go,
but I don’t be-
lieve that for a

didn’t do that. They and the rest of the drivers
were just cast members in the Earnhardt
show.. And especially around the Carolinas,
Earnhardt was not a sticker on the back of a
pickup truck. He was the personification of a
good ol’ boy made good.

Drivers now are like Bobby Labonte and
Jeff Burton. They always say the right things
and never allow themselves to slip. Dale
Earnhardt wasn’t like that. He’d skip out on
media interviews and when he did talk to the
press, he’d tell it like it is. He was the last of
a dying breed.

He started racing on dirt tracks across the

Carolinas and made his way to the pinnacle of
racing: NASCAR. He won seven Winston
cup championships and over 70 races.
But what separated
him, and what made
him loved by mil-
lions was his atti-
tude and image.
No doubt about it
- Dale Earnhardt
| was a renegade
_ and everyone out
there knew it.

He was the ab-
solute last driver
the others wanted
behind them on the

last lap. After all
he was “The
. Intimidator”.
» If Rich-

minute. = The

As much as a Tee King,
I’ve rooted DaLe EARNHARDT, 1951-2001 then
against him in Dale

the: past, Earnhardt deserved better. He-de-
served to go to Victory Lane with Michael
Waltrip and Dale Jr. He deserved to watch his
son’s future success in the sport. He deserved
to die an old man in Mooresville, N.C. with
grandchildren all around him. None of these
will happen.

It must be understood that Earnhardt was
not just some racecar driver. Earnhardt made
NASCAR into what it is today.-It was mil-
lions of fans who paid to see one of two
things: Either Earnhardt kicking butt and
trading paint or to see Earnhardt get beat.

Jeff Gordon didn’t do that. Tony Stewart

Earnhardt was the Black Prince that kept the

race pushing onward.

He deserved a better ending to his storied
career and life. But I take solace in the fact
that Dale’s wrapping around on that speed-
way upstairs, nudging and bumping his way
to the front, wishing that we’d all get our
business back together and continue onward
with the race.

Best of luck Intimidator - I knew you'd say
goodbye someday, but not like this. Never
like this.

Jimmy Burford is ajunior from Greenville,
S.C., and a lifelong NASCAR fan.

Davidsonian archives
Junior Jeremy Kilburn

EY

Davidsonian archives |
Sophomore Heather Maloney

Men’s and women’s soccer
teams win academic award

Davidson is only Southern Conference School to receive
College Team Academic Award

By TyLer REED

Staff Writer

The National Soccer Coaches Association
of America (NSCAA) announced this month
the winners of the College Team Academic
Awards. Both the men’s and women’s soccer
teams were rewarded for their perseverance
in the classroom during the rigorous fall
season. The men’s team compiled a 3.14
GPA while the women averaged a3.25 GPA.
The minimum required GPA was 3.0.

The teams, which represent all levels of
play from NCAA Division I to NAIA, are
compiled and nominated by NSCAA coaches
from around the country.

Davidson was the only Southern Confer-
ence school to win men’s and women’s awards

and one of only five Division I schools in
which both the men’s and women’s teams
were given the award.

“Our players’ academic profiles have al-
ways been very much like the rest of the
student body,” says women’s coach Kevin
Hundley.

Senior goalkeeper Winnie Corrigan said
keeping up with schoolwork during the sea-
son is an immensely challenging task.

“My only option was to do the best I could
under those circumstances and be prepared
for the wave of backed-up schoolwork wait-
ing for me once my season ended,” she said.

Added men’s coach Charlie Slagle: “I am
always in awe of what our athletes do in the
classroom with the time constraints that var-
sity athletics places on them.”

Cc

O M M E

N T A

Y

It’s more than Just W’s: success comes in many forms

By JENN HIGGINS
Staff Writer

When you’re enlisted to build a program,
success is about more than simple consis-
tency. It isn’t meant to be an immediate
dynasty. It’s about more than managing the
ups and downs of the season. For most teams
(with the exception of your Dukes and North
Carolinas), success in Division I athletics
ebbs and flows like the tide of the ocean.

After speaking with seven head coaches at
Davidson, I discovered that records alone do
not tell the full story of their motivations.

Success is...promoting growth

“As acoach, it is necessary to have a vision
about where your program can go,” says
men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop.
Coaches give their teams direction. . And
pointing them in the right direction breeds
improvement not only over the course of one
season, but often over many seasons. Over-
coming the hurdles that can inhibit that
progress is a critical measure of how far a
team has come and will go.

Success is...more than winning
“Teams can live and die by their record, but
ultimately we focus on the things that we can

control,” says head baseball coach Dick
Cooke. The only thing that teams have within
their control is preparation: Whether or not
they are prepared to execute the game to the
best of their ability and leave everything they
have out there on the field or court when it is
all over.

Success is...fulfilling potential.

In the battle of “Davidson” versus Goliath,
often times, overachieving is a must. To
defeat a nationally ranked team or win a
conference championship, coaches must de-
mand excellence from their players.

“One of the keys to being a successful
coach is to make sure that your team fulfills
their potential,” says women’s soccer coach
Kevin Hundley.

Coaches work to squeeze every ounce of
potential out of their team because they can
see it. They know the talent level, they know
the competition, and they know what they are
capable of. Like lacrosse coach Mary
Schwartz, they demand that from each of
their players because that is what it takes to
maintain progress in any program. And as

team, they produce because they trust their

efforts will yield great rewards.

Success is...instilling a strong work ethic.

“A strong work ethic is critical to maintain-
ing consistent success in any program,” says
new football coach Mike Toop. Many coaches

' promote a competitive attitude by scheduling

top-ranked opponents, which will allow for
individual as well as team growth.

Cooke feels strongly that Davidson is an
environment that nurtures the pursuit of ex-
cellence. “Being at a place like Davidson
makes the lack of a:strong work ethic among
players never an issue of concern,” he said.

Success is...setting manageable goals

“We prefer to set performance-based goals,
like striving for constant improvement or to
never be outworked by a team, rather than
focusing so much on statistical goals,” says
women’s basketball coach John Filar. These
are the types of goals that qualify instead of
quantify success for a team. Most coaches
agree that evaluating their team’s perfor-
mance ona play-by-play, game-by-game basis
is more logical than predicting the outcome
of any tournament or season. Focusing on the
task at hand appears to be a crucial factor in
the development of a program because it adds
up over the course of a given season.

Sure, every coach dreams of regular-sea-
son championships and NCAA berths. Every
team wants the feelings of success that ac-

company an undefeated season. Every team
wants to be the best. But success is more than
just being the best and winning champion-
ships.

Success is maintaining mental toughness.
Success is embracing an entire community.
Success is learning from your mistakes, Suc-
cess is believing you can accomplish any-
thing.

For field hockey coach Jen Halliday, suc-
cess is seeing that excitement in players’
faces when they realize that they can beat
anyone. For Toop, success is achieved through
constant improvement and communication.
For Schwartz, success is found in what she
calls “selling the process”.

For each of these teams, the banners and
trophies of the past are not simply reminders
that they were once guests in the house of
success, They are standards of progress.
Gauges of growth. Indicators of accomplish-
ment.

They speak volumes about a program, a
coach, a team, and its supporters. They
remind us all that ‘success begets success’.

And even though winning seasons come
and go, one thing remains constant—the value
of the journey itself.
