Davison COLLEGE

I

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25, 2001

ERTAS @

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 23

Former Secretary of
Defense visits Davidson

By RICHARD VINSON
Editor in chief

Former Secretary of Defense William
Cohen filled this year’s Wearn Lecture with
observations from his vast experience in in-
ternational politics. The nation’s twentieth
defense secretary delivered his speech, en-
titled “The Perils and Promise of a New
World,” before a packed Love Auditorium.
Following the lecture, Cohen answered sev-
eral questions from the audience.

A former Republican senator from Maine,
Cohen joined the Clinton cabinet in 1997.

Cohen attended a press conference with Davidson
students before his lecture on Saturday.

His position in the Democratic administra-
tion reflected both his reputation as a moder-
ate Republican and his expertise in defénse
and foreign affairs.

Cohen characterized the current political
climate as “era of great change.” He high-
lighted this dynamic present by first address-
ing the turbulent past. Cohen contrasted the

views of two renowned scholars and com-
mentators of contemporary international poli-
tics, Francis Fukuyama and Samuel Hun-
tington.

After the fall of European communism
more than a decade ago, these authors took
divergent views of the future. Fukuyama
held that liberal democracy represented the
final stage of political development and
would subsequently sweep across the globe.
By contrast, Huntington felt that the many
faultlines of culture and religion would
plunge the world into increased instability

~ and conflict.

According to
Cohen, history
have proven
both men right.
The past decade
has witnessed
both a spread of
democratic ide-
als and an in-
crease of politi-
cal fragmenta-
tion, of religious
ferment, and of
inter-ethnic and
cultural vio-
lence.

As aresult, the
United States
must conduct an
“ongoing exami-
nation” of its role
in and its rela-
tionship to the changing global community.
Whatever course the new administration
chooses, Cohen stated that the United States
will continue to depend both on effective
diplomacy and ona strong military to achieve
its goals.

Both in his lecture and in a pre-speech
press conference, Cohen elaborated his views

Bill Giduz

of what constitutes an appropriate use of
. these tools of foreign policy. In particular, he

addressed US policy regarding Russia, China,
and weapons of mass destruction.

As Cohen remaftked, “Russia is an impor-
tant country with many resources.” Far from
being a minor player in international politics,
the former soviet superpower: is “going
through a difficult transition.” As aresult, the
US must “help them become integrated into
the international community.”

Part of this task involves securing or elimi-
nating Russia’s nuclear arsenal. Cohen noted
that the sale or smuggling of weapons to
countries such as Iran continues to be a prob-
lem. The US must also strive to convince
Russia of the benefits of a limited national
missile defense system for international peace
and stability.

China also looms large on the political
horizon. Inhis interview, Cohen commented,

SAE celebrates loyal staff member

By BreNT BYARS
Staff Writer

There was a buzz of excitement at Sigma
Alpha Epsilon on an otherwise lazy after-
noon this Friday. “Is she here?” someone
asked, to which someone else answered “Not
yet, but apparently they’ve seen her.” Then,

News

Briefly

Arts & Living
Perspectives
Sports

Se @ JN WK -—

“She’s here, I think.”

The assembled members of SAE and a
band of well-wishers were eagerly awaiting
Lula Bell Houston, a'very special lady who
happens to work in DC’s laundry. Houston
(Ms. Lu, to you) entered to a standing ovation
and a bouquet of flowers. SAE members
honored Houston not only because she has
worked for DC but because “she’s just such a
special human being.”

Houston began working for Davidson in
1943, and has been going strong ever since.
She only took a few years off for short stints
living in Washington, D.C. and New York
and for raising her children, but she is well
past her 40" year. Ask her about quitting,
though, and she will tell you that she’s “got a
few more years left in [her].”

Matthew Arbuckle ‘02, who suggested giv-
ing the award to Houston, recalled his first
memory of Houston. He introduced himself
as a freshman, and has been receiving hugs
and affection ever since. Arbuckle, in fact, is

the third generation of Arbuckles “to love
Lula Bell.” Houston previously worked with
his mother, Margaret Arbuckle, and his grand-
parents. Mrs. Arbuckle was present at the
ceremony and recalls her time working with
Houston at Davidson fondly. “She’s just
such a special lady.”

Arbuckle lamented the fact that few at
Davidson take the time to think about and
thank those who work in the physical plant,
but calls it “the machine that makes Davidson
work.” He says that Houston “embodies
what the spirit of Davidson is, and what we
think it should be.”

Mark Caldwell ‘02, also spoke at the cer-
emony, and recalls the time when he first met
Houston. “Looks like you guys are busy,” he
told Houston. In return he got “Yes, but Ilove
it,’ and a big smile. He also spoke about
Houston’s “beautiful” singing in the choir at
DCPC, and says that “DC is in debt for a

see Houston. page 6

_ enemy either.”

Bobby Pittenger
KA sponsered their annual KArnival on April 21. KArnival, and the

Brother-Pledge Auction on Friday night, raised more than $6,000 for
the Muscular Dystrophy Association.

“It’s one thing to say that China is not a
strategic partner — but they’re not a strategic

The recent incident involving
the collision of a US surveillance craft and a
Chinese fighter plane demonstrates this some-
what strained relationship. Cohen was clear
that “[the US military] has a right and a
responsibility to conduct surveillance” in in-
ternational airspace. Nevertheless, he as-
serted, “Our militaries must continue to be in
contact.”

Cohen pointed to some progress on this
front, particularly in the case of Taiwan. He
recalled that the mainland nation had been
accustomed to setting deadlines for reunifi-
cation, after which they had threatened to use
force. As a result of continued engagement,
the Chinese leadership has changed its rheto-

see Cohen, page 6

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Bound by honor

Silent yet ever-present, Davidson’s Honor Code is
one of the college’s most cherished institutions, The
present Honor Council] hopes to stir up discussion
about this fixture of campus life.

NEws page 3

An unlikely story

A relatively unknown journalist of her time,
Rebecca West covered a Greenville, S.C., lynching
trial in- 1947 and wrote a vivid narrative for the New
Yorker. Fifty years later, Rebecca West and her story
have brought together an unlikely trio—two indepen-
dent filmmakers from Greenville and Davidson’s
Batten Professor Steve Isenberg.

News page 5

No rest for the weary

After a successful performance of Rutter’s Re-
quiem last Sunday, the orchestra and choir brought
their show back to campus Tuesday night.

Arts & LivinG page 7

How many missiles are enough?
One Davidson alumnus voices his own views on

the —_ and promise” of international politics.
PERSPECTIVES page 11 1]

