Kells from page 6

because I’m not currently studying the re-
gion, but that has been my focus and certainly
was last year. This year, I have kind of
reoriented myself back to American politics.

MH: What do you anticipate doing once
you graduate?

KH: Id like to do a radio talk show. I have
been interested in talk and entertainment for
along time and believe its something that I’m
fairly good at —again you are entitled to your
own opinion. I have spent two summers
interning at radio stations. The first was
OFM Radio in Bloemfonteing, South Africa
and the second was WABC in New York
City—it’s a news talk station. WABC is
home to characters like Rush Limbaugh and
Sean Hannity.

MH: What is your favorite Davidson tradi-
tion? Like Spring Frolics or Pancake Break-
fasts?

KH: Quesadillas at the Union Café on
Saturday nights. I really love those cheese

quesadillas!

MH: Ah yes, truly a Davidson experience.

I think I know exactly what you mean. What

was your favorite TV show as a kid?

KH: Sesame Street and Mr. Rogers. My
favorite part of Mr. Rogers was when he ran
the trains. You may, or may not remember
that part, but it was absolutely my favorite
part.

MH: A fellow Sesame Street fan?! How
great! And of course I remember the trains. I
never understood how the train actually got
from his house to King Friday’s castle. Do
you have a favorite movie?

KH: Yes, it’s Gone with the Wind.

MH: ‘Yet another classic.
hero?

Who is your

KH: Hard to say. I guess you might say that
I have something more like a team of idols.
This team includes people like Henry Ford,
and G.E.’s Jack Welch, John Kennedy,
Alexander Hamilton, John Adams (the first
of the two Adams to be president).

MH: I think I can see a patriotic streak
beginning here. (smiles) As a senior, what
kind of advice would you offer the incoming
freshmen?

KH: Stay focused. Build a plan and stick to
it. Set goals and attain them. Everyone says

that, you know. But, it’s
that mantra too.

MH: Wise words.

MH: Of course. Well, we’re almost to the
end of my questions, but I do have a few more
that are of the lighthearted variety.

KH: Shoot.
MH: Would you.shave your head?

KH: No. Unless of course there were some
practical reason to do it.

MH: What’s one thing about you that not
many people might know?

KH: Well I’m responsible for some of the
recent changes in Commons. I convinced
Commons to put out a block of cream cheese
each morning instead of just those little pack-
ets of cream cheese. I also convinced Mr.
Terry who heads up Auxiliary Services to
offer ice cream in Commons.

MH: Are you kidding?
KH: Not at all! I’m quite fond of bagels,
actually, and so now we have cream cheese

for the bagels.

MH: I would venture to say that not many

so true, so I’ll chant ‘people know about that. So,

lines, what’s your favorite fast-food c
KH: McDonald’s.
MH: Wait, let me guess: Happy Meals?

KH: No. I don’t like Happy Meals because
I don’t want something thrown at me. I want
to be able to tell them what I want on my
burger. You see, the Happy Meals are pre-
packaged. The product is already put to-
gether, without any input from me, the cus-
tomer. I’d like to have a little say in what goes
on that sandwich. [hated pickles and they put
those on there, and they mixed the mustard
and ketchup. Letting foods touch—that’s a
no-no when you’re ten (laughs).

MH: Would you do anything for money?

KH: No. Anything, no. My morals are not
for sale. Nor is my integrity.

MH: Well, Kells, that brings me to the end
of my questions. I’ve really enjoyed getting
to know you a bit.

KH: Martha, it was my pleasure. Thank
you so much for asking. I look forward to
reading your article in the Davidsonian and
maybe before it goes to press?

MH: We’ll see about that.

LonG Live Rock: Wilco plays Atlanta’s Roxy last Monday

By JoRDAN STEELE

Staff Writer

“The world’s going to hell, we don’t have a record label,”
deadpanned Wilco front man Jeff Tweedy last Monday night
in Atlanta. Somehow, after listening to the mesmerizing
synthesis of folk, country, delta blues, Beach Boys-tinged
pop, and tortured rock, you felt, not without a strand of

naiveté, that it’s all gonna be all right.

Wilco proved Monday night that,
despite recent personnel changes,
record industry woes, and musical pi-
geonholing, the Chicago-based quar-
tet has weathered the storm.

New drummer Glenn Kotche’ s jazz-
inflected skittering approach to the kit
was at once bombastic and surpris-
ingly musical, showcased compel-
lingly during the perversely anthemic
crowd-pleaser “Shot in the Arm.”

Co-founder John Stirratt, who re-
cently recorded an album with his side’
project the Autumn Defense, has the
makings of a charismatic bandleader.

Especially refreshing was the
bassist’ s dynamic with Kotche, which
was both hard-driving and melodic.

The weak link was naturally new
utility man Leroy Bach, who most
recently replaced jack-of-all-trades

musician Jay Bennett. One could sense Bach had entered
into a rite-of-passage, as his presence was deferential, both
musically and physically (he often stood in the back on

Wilco’s most rollicking numbers).

Tweedy was by far the most riveting. The lead singer has
a grisly, ratty look about him, which embodies his vocal

Don’t miss it: the Granian concert hap-
pens October 6, 9 PM, in the C. Shaw
Smith 900 Room... check out
www.granian.com for more information,
or ‘search for “Granian” on
WWw.mp3.com.

All photos courtesy www.wilco.com

Glen

_ you heard it here first

Did you brush up your juggling tech-
nique over the weekend? The Hurricane
Hugo Festival engulfed the Union on Fri-
day and Saturday, dazzling bystanders
with juggling skills and amazing feats
like fire-eating (kids, don’t try this at
home).

Quote of the week:

“What counts is not necessarily. the
‘size of the dog in the fight—it’s the size
of the fight in the dog.”

—DwightD. Eisenhower (1890-1969)

delivery and his guitar-playing. You
sense that Tweedy doesn’t simply “at-
tack” his instrument; rather, some un-
knowable outside force yanks the chords
from his emotional core.

The constant struggle between this
impalpable assailant and the front man
made for great art, especially during
the post-punk interpretation of “I’m
Always in Love.”

The show’s artistic apex peaked fol-
lowing their performance of “Sunken
Treasure.” Dylan-esque and sublimely
wretched, Tweedy caterwauls, “I was
tamed by rock-n-roll,...and I don’tneed
rock-n-roll anymore.”

Haunting and nihilistic, Wilco’s re-
nunciation of its roots is implied on

their magnificent album Summerteeth and the equally
adventurous, yet-to-be-released Yankee Hotel Foxtrot.
Following this darkness, however, the band mercifully
returned—for a third encore—to perform the trium-
phantly existential, and just plain rocking, “I Got You
(At the End of the Century).” Wilco’s disciples sang
along to the chorus, brashly defying the brooding tone
of “Sunken Treasure.” It has proved difficult for Wilco
to escape from under the mantle of “alt-country,” but
their performance last week confirmed that they. have
no problem being America’s best rock group,

Wilco’s new album, which will be delayed shipping
until the new year, is available in its entirety at
www.wilcoweb.com.

Thanks for reading Arts and Living!
If youhave any comments please email
Martha at mahunt@davidson.edu or
Derek at deloh @davidson.edu. Be sure
to check back next week for the new
installment of “Martha’s Kitchen,”
along with more reviews and mayhem.

