By Co in EAGAN
Staff Writer

Four staff members of the Residence Life
Office will seek residence away from
Davidson beginning next year. RLO Direc-
tor and Assistant Dean of Students Kurt
Holmes will depart after the completion of
this semester, as-will the campus’s three area
coordinators, Erin Domagalski, Amy Hector,
and Troy Williams.

Holmes arrived on campus nine years ago,
when he assumed the role of RLO assistant
director and Patterson Court advisor. This
summer he will travel to the College of
Wooster in Ohio, where he will soon begin
his first term as dean of students. The offer of
this position came as a true surprise to Holmes,
who had submitted a resume on a whim last
fall.

“T put a single resume out there as a fluke
and thought ‘wouldn’t this be nice’ but didn’t
expect itto come through,” he laughed. “Two
weeks ago they called to make an offer.”
Family connections had drawn Holmes to
Wooster for some time, although he has never
experienced any real desire to leave Davidson.
His decision to depart reflects, he says, the
pursuit of a rare opportunity rather than any
need to get away. “I wasn’t doing a search,”
he explained. “I didn’t have 20 or 30 resumes
out there, I literally had one. It was quite a
surprise.”

Resultantly, Holmes’ departure has brought
bittersweet emotions. What will he miss
most about Davidson? “We have a great
RLO staff, both on the student, RA hall
counselor and professional level,” the
Ransomville, NY native commended. “And
Davidson as an institution is a wonderful
place to work. There are wonderful students
whocome here, great faculty and staff, finan-
cial resources that are better than most col-

®

Outpost, |

from page 2

[with their programming],” remarked Vagt.
‘He expressed ambivalence about whether
such broad-based social activities should be
centered in a place other than the new Cam-
pus Center.

DIA President Carlos Carreras echoed some
of Vagt’s concerns. “The Knobloch Center
will be an appealing place, and we want to
direct students towards it,” he asserted. He
feels, however, that DIA does not “pose a
threat” to the Campus Center.
believe that anything on campus could
compete with the new Center.”

Furthermore, Carreras emphasized that DIA
is not simply a social organization. “We are
a social group, but we don’t offer only social
opportunities,” he explained. According to
him, DIA also focuses on exposing students
to international culture and issues through
programs and educational events.

Carreras judged that DIA had communi-
cated its requests to Vagt and had responded
to his concerns.

Though the future of the Outpost remains
uncertain, Vagt confirmed that “the question
is not DIA or some other organization.”
Rather, at present the other alternative would
be to keep the building a multi-purpose space

open to all groups on campus.

Vagt expects to have made a decision inthe
next two or three weeks. He hopes that the
decision will be a lasting one.

then take it right back,” he mused.

“I do not

“We don’t .
want to give [the Outpost] to somebody and

leges and universities.”

The honor code in particular has earned the
Director’s respect. “Going back nine years,
the most striking thing when I got here was
the strength of the honor code,” Holmes re-
called. “Before I was used.to asking for the
truth. When I began work here, there was a
Patterson Court violation and I said to the
student accused ‘I really need to know if you
were involved.’ He said ‘yes’ and I said ‘no,
I really need to—did you say yes?’ It speaks
to the integrity of the students.”

During his time on campus, Holmes has
completed such achievements as introducing
area coordinators on campus and overseeing
thé construction and opening of the West
dormitory. He has.enjoyed his opportunities
to interact with students throughout his time
here, in both the capacities of RLO director
and assistant dean of students. And he has
made many friends. “We loose an incredible
personality and an extraordinary human be-
ing,” recognized President Bobby Vaght, who
commended Holmes’ unique ability to deal
with the rigors of orchestrating Residence
Life. “It’s a role where there are spikes built
into the chair. As soon as you sit down,

_ people are going to start throwing things at

you, and Kurt always pursued his task with an
active sense of equity.”

“T’ ve been in denial that Kurt is leaving and
I’m sure I won’t know what Ill miss most
until I experience his not being here,” said
Sharon Leahy, Residence Life Assistant.
“He’s a wonderful ‘boss,’ friend, and team
leader.”

As Holmes prepares to leave Davidson, he
can’t but: guess at the new challenges that
await in his new position at Wooster. “But I
can tell you one thing,” he remarked, glanc-
ing around the converted ROTC meeting
room in basement Belk. “Never again will I
have an office this big!”

. Holmes.

Leaving with Holmes at the end of this year
are Davidson’s three area coordinators, Erin
Domagalski, Amy Hector, and Troy Will-
iams. Area coordinators live on campus,
where their primary responsibility is to serve
as a support system for student RAs and hall

-counselors. “They’re the go-to pérson where

there is a problem or a crisis,” described
“They deal with student help pro-
gramming to damage and fire. It’s kind of a
crazy job in that respect, and hours are irregu-
lar? 3

For this reason, turnover in area coordina-
tor positions is frequent. ““Area’ coordinator
positions as live-ins on campus are typically
one to three years,” continued Holmes, who
has himself held such a role in the past.
“Extending your undergraduate experience
as far ‘as housing goes in the professional
world is not something that most people do
for a long time.”

Domagalski completes her second year as
an area coordinator.at Davidson this spring.
Family and friends now draw her back to her
home state of New York. “I will desperately
miss my student contact and the friendships I

_ have made with students on this campus,” she

said. “I guess I would be lying if I didn’t also
admit I will miss the weather. I was visiting
NY this past weekend and they still had two
plus feet of snow and folks were skiing and

snowmobiling. In April I prefer to be playing -

Frisbee and sailing!” In addition to her work
as area coordinator, Domagalski played an
important role in developing many internal:
RLO events and activities.

Hector has also served on campus for two
years.’ She leaves to meet the needs of her
growing family. “My husband is a student at
UNC-Greensboro and we are trying to find a
place closer to Greensboro to live. Right
now; he has a three-hour commute time and
that takes a lot of time away from our family.

will. deliver'the i

‘We have a 7-month-old son now and would

just like more family time.” What at Davidson
will be most sorely missed? “Absolutely,
without a doubt, my students,” enthused Hec-
tor, who has had the opportunity to develop
many relationships not only through RLO,
but such programs as Emerging Leaders on
campus. She hopes the role of area coordina-
tors will become increasingly more student-
oriented in future years at Davidson. “The
Residence Life Office, in general, is very
student centered and so we as the profes-
sional staff are always trying to find better
ways to support the residents of this campus,”
she continued. “The Area Coordinators are
key in making those changes whether it be
through collaboration with the other profes-
sionals in our office or with the student staff.”
Hector has been generally described by most
students who know her as “cool.”

Williams has worked at Davidson for three
years. He began work as a faculty member,
teaching Russian language and literature, and
took on the added responsibility of area coor-.
dinator beginning his second year on campus.
Having previously served as an area coordi-
nator in the student development office at
Duke University, Williams welcomed his
return to working with college students. “I
think [area coordinator] is an excellent posi-
tion,” he commented, “providing vital sup-
port for our student staff members and a
readily available resource for our students.”
He will be moving westward following Com-
mencementto another academic position that
will allow him to be closer to home.

Though the simultaneous departure of all
three area coordinators this year presents an
inconvenience, it was not necessarily unan-
ticipated. “Due to the stepping stone nature
of the position, it’s not a surprise,” Vaght
commented. “But we are indebted to all of
them, and sad to see them go.”

2001 Reynolds ipctors:

Thursday,
7:30 p.m.

Love Auditoriany® ;

FREE ADMISSION.
Call tc

ambers Building

r information”
ae

