completion of new music center

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff

The music program at Davidson College
will receive a long-awaited boost when the

construction of the new music center located

in the old Union is completed by
August 2002. Facilities will then
move from the old Cunningham
Center to the completely reno-
vated structure located between
Dana and Martin Science build-
ings.

Music Professor Dr. Bill
Lawing expressed his excitement
over the new center and emphati-
cally stated its need: “The de-
partment is currently using fa-
cilities which date from between
1837 and 1962.”

“Cunningham was constructed
when we were a men’s college of
900 students. Imagine the de-
mands when we had four full-
time faculty, a 25-piece wind en-
semble, a 30-piece male chorus,
and little else, to today, where we have added
a concert choir, a symphony orchestra, elec-
tronic music, a major emphasis on applied
music (with over 100 people taking lessons),
and a rich diversity of course offerings. The
faculty and staff are triple their size from
Cunningham, and the student enrollment is
likely in the same proportions.”

This lack of space has directly affected
the department in many negative ways. “Asa

result we’ve been working i in facilities that
are far too small, many of which were not
designed for music, and spread out all over
the academic part of the campus”, claimed
Lawing.

“So the renovation is a huge and dramatic

Photo by Matt Whited

improvement for us. There are many commit-
ments which demonstrate this need.”

The new center itself is a complete step up
Cunningham as the entire interior of the old
Union has been gutted to provide for every
accommodation of a first rate music facility.
Each level will come complete with various
new features and amenities.

The bottom level, which once was occu-
pied by the bookstore and offices is being

subdivided and, “lowered by several feet to
allow it to accommodate the cubic space
necessary for music. It will house our teach-
ing studios, practice rooms, and electronic

- music functions,” suchas the keyboard room.

A central student lounge and mechanical
equipment room will also be lo-
cated in this lower level.

The main floor “will hold fac-
ulty offices and a music library
that will be the envy of any small
college library in the country.”
The floor will also include an
entrance lobby, classroom, and a
seminar area.

The top and probably the most
impressive floor “will have our
large classroom combined with
the choir room, a wonderful in-
strumental rehearsal space, and a
recital hall in the space that used
to occupy the 900 room.”

The large recital hall features a
150 seat area on the top floor and
50 more seats in a surrounding
open balcony on the upper Mez-
zanine level.

Said Dr. Lawing, “There are many won-
derful architectural details that will come to
life as the renovation proceeds. Probably the
most important aspect, though, is that we will
be reinforcing our music making by being in
a unified home, and being in a home who
renovation is specifically designed for our
music.”

Mock Trial excels in Spartanburg

By ROLAND F. Foss
Staff Writer

In its third year, the Wildcats’ only com-
peting academic team is on the prowl. On
October 19 and 20 the Davidson College
Mock Trial Association traveled to the Uni-
versity of South Carolina at Spartanburg for
a two-day competition.

Split into two teams, the students com-
peted with such schools as Middle Tennessee
State University, Rhodes.College, Furman
University, and East Kentucky University.

All teams competed four times over Friday
the 19th and Saturday the 20th—twice each
arguing for the prosecution, twice each for
the defense.

Each team is composed of three lawyers,
three or four witnesses, and one time-keeper,

who acts as an alternate.

One of Davidson’s teams tied for third-
place out of twenty teams at the tournament,
two individual team members were recog-
nized for their excellent performances.

Jason Blanford ’05 took fourth-place for
Outstanding Attorney, and Nikki Thomas
received ninth-place for Outstanding Expert
witness.

~ Mock Trial is a national academic organi-
zation consisting of more than 300 compet-
ing teams nationwide. The organization pro-
vides case materials to participating schools
every year. ,

This year’s case is a criminal case against
a fictional character named Ashley Thornhill.
Thornhill is accused of killing his boss,
Wendell Tucker, a resident of the fictional
state of Midlands.

WALT 1610 AM kicks off new year

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

Although many students may be only
vaguely aware of the fact, Davidson does
have a student radio station.

On November 1“, WALT held an informa-
tional meeting in Room 302 of the Alvarez
College Union to kick off a year that they
hope will hold a spirit of rejuvenation for the
college’s student-run radio station.

Now beginning its fifth year of broadcast-
ing, WALT was created by a group of stu-
dents who wanted anew media outlet. Station
manager Rocky Charcon ’03 said that radio
was especially attractive to these students
because the faculty and administration of the
college do not oversee the station. Instead,
WALT is governmentally regulated by the
FCC and broadcasts as a commercial-free
public radio station at 1610 AM.

The station’s headquarters have recently
moved to the fourth floor of the Alvarez

College Union, and it has taken a while for
them to get their equipment set up. The stu-
dent leaders seemed especially excited about
the addition of a new soundboard for their
broadcasts. Charcon said that it is a “slow-
growing” organization, and that “with the
move to the new Union, [they] are hoping for
a stronger foothold in the community.”

Radio shows on WALT last an hour long
and are open for any student who would like
to be trained in using the equipment. Student
deejays are relatively free to choose what
type of music or talk show they would like to
air during their time slots. Charcon said that
in the past, many students have used their
time to “promote new bands” and “cutting-
edge music.”

Lauran Halpin ’03, promotions director for
WALT, said that many students have trouble
in the past with station reception in their dorm
rooms. Generally, students who have good
AM antennae can receive the frequency in
their rooms, and nearly every car can get the

station within a certain radius around
Davidson’s campus. To learn how to get
better reception in the dorms, anyone can
contact the station’s directors.

Additionally, Halpin said that the Union
will air the station’s shows over its sound
system by the end of the year.

Halpin also promoted the fact that WALT
deejays are available to any organizations
that need musical entertainment. Patterson
Court and other event coordinators should
know that the station offers inexpensive rates
and a wide selection of music. Any extra
money earned augments the station’s budget
and helps to make necessary improvements
to the organization as a whole.

For students interested in becoming a deejay
for WALT, time spots are still available.
Interested students can contact Halpin at
lahalpin@davidson.edu for more informa-

_ tion. Every potential deejay is trained to use

the equipment, so no previous experience is
necessary. ,

The mock trial team plans to compete in the
Regional Tournament at Furman University
in Greenville, SC.

According to Jessica Bogo ’02, Executive
Coordinator, the recent tournament was “‘in-
strumental in refining our case and our skills
in preparation for the Regional Tournament.”

“We have been one place away from Na-
tionals every year, and this year we fully
intend to make Nationals a reality,” Bogo
said.

The team will have another chance to prac-
tice the case when they travel to Yale Univer-
sity November 8-10 to compete in another
tournament.

Any student who would like to know more
about Mock Trial or any faculty members

_ who would like to become faculty sponsors

are encouraged to contact Bogo.

Bikes repaired

Red Bikes, from page 1

released on campus, but Gerstenmier said
the program, “will definitely [be] ready to go
Second semester.”

Current questions about the program that
remained unanswered include how to make
the Code of Responsibility work in keeping
the bikes safe, and how to find and punish the
abusers of the bikes.

Gerstenmier insisted that in the future,
destruction of bikes won’t be tolerated. The
problem will be addressed through increased
support by Davidson Campus Police and a
“campus wide effort” to report any and all
perpetrators.

Richard Vinson ’02, when asked his opin-
ion on the Red Bike Program, stated,
“T think it’s a great idea. I’ve always thought
it was a great idea. And I don’t even ride
bikes! If people are too irresponsible to
maintain a program like this, than that’s a sad
commentary on the Davidson community.”

