A LIBERTAS @

Davison COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 4, 2001

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 21

Flynn crusades against
convicted ‘cop killer’

By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Twenty years ago on a cold December
night in Philadelphia, Police Officer Danny
Faulkner was shot once in the back and then
in the face. The police immediately knew
they had their man, as five eyewitnesses
identified‘: Mumia Abu-Jamal as the killer.
Abu-Jamal was tried, convicted, and sen-
tenced to death for the.killing. This murder,
far removed from everyday work and life, yet
still deeply embedded in our collective con-
sciousness, continues to spark debate across
the U.S., especially on college campuses.

The Abu-Jamal case is plagued by what
many call factual inconsistencies and corrup-
tion within the Philadelphia police force.
Among other things, defenders of Abu-Jamal
claim that other witnesses saw different people
fleeing the scene of the crime, that Abu-
Jamal was merely trying to assist the fallen
officer, or that he was framed by a police
force trying to silence an outspoken advocate
of racial profiling in the city.

Last week the Conservative Alliance of
Davidson hosted Dan Flynn, the Executive
Director of Accuracy in Academia. Flynn
came to Davidson to speak about what he
considers Abu-Jamal’s obvious guilt and ma-

nipulation of the press and public opinion.
AIA describes itself as an “educational orga-
nization dedicated to returning higher educa-
tion to its original mission: the search for
truth.” Many have identified AIA as a group
committed to branding political correctness
as “censorship.” Its views are often at odds
with the prevailing opinion among under-
graduates, faculty and administrations at even
the most conservative institutions. (On the
organization’s web _ site, http://
www.academia.org, Flynn claims that AIDS
education efforts “mislead” heterosexuals into
thinking they could get AIDS.)

The Conservative Alliance also invited
members of Amnesty International and the
Young Democrats to Flynn’s lecture, in an
attempt to encourage debate. Objecting to
both Flynn’s “extremist views” and his highly
negative opinion of Abu-Jamal’s supporters,
Amnesty met together before the lecture on
the patio of the Union.

Here, members gathered to learn about the
background of the Accuracy in Academia
organization and to read from Abu-Jamal’s
book Live on Death Row. Amnesty leader
Etta Dixon ‘01, though, encouraged an atmo-
sphere of mutual respect towards Flynn and

see Mumia, page 5

Tuition hike puts yearly
fees at an all-time high

By Timotuy Cook
News Editor

The price to attend Davidson is on the rise
again. The Board of Trustees recently an-
nounced a 3.8 percent increase in the cost of
tuition, raising the total price for.incoming
freshmen to $30,823.

- The decision stems from the need to up-
grade technology, to stay even with inflation
and by the recommendation of the state of
North Carolina. Davidson is also in the
middle of a capital campaign called “Let
Learning be Cherished”, a $250 million
project.

The reasons for the tuition raise were sent
out in a letter to parents and students last
week. Among those reasons was to be able to
compete better for faculty and staff,

News

Briefly

Arts & Living
12 Perspectives
14 Sports

exependitures to upgrade the infrastructure

to be more efficient, and creating more tech-
nology.

That technology cost includes the leasing
ofa T-3 internet connection, the fastest internet
speed available. (Davidson currently has a T-
1 connection.) Also, Davidson will increase
financial aid “proportional to the the increase
in the comprehensive fee.”

Other pressing financial obligations in-
clude the renovation of the Grey College

‘Union into the new music department build-

ing followed by the renovation of Chambers
Building. Both projects will require
signifigant funding.

The price of tuition of the 2000-2001 school
year is currently $29,666, including room
and board. Next year’s price will top the
$30,000 mark for the first time in Davidson

_ history.

Though one of the most expensive schools
in the state, Davidson did not have the highest

increase. Some colleges hiked tuition more ~

than 10 percent like Lees-McCrea College in
Banner Elk, North Carolina. But the average
increase throughout the country is about four
to five percent. Duke University is raising
tuition by 4.5 percent this year to over $34,000.

The state of North Carolina also moved to

_ increase public univerisity tuition to schools

like North Carolina State University and the
University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill by
4 percent as well.

News Editor

The days of bubble sheets are over. When
students register for.spring courses, they will
fill out their trees online. A new program,
entitled WebTree, will enable all course reg-
istration to be completed over the Internet.

Since early last fall, the Registrar’s office
has been working closely with Information
Technology Services (ITS) to develop an
effective program. “In addition to being a
royal pain for everyone, the bubble sheets are
susceptible to multiple errors,” said Dr.
Hansford Epes, Registrar. Frequently, stu-
dents enter ID numbers incorrectly or inad-
vertently fill in bubbles for the wrong classes.

The actual process of registration will not
change. Students will receive envelopes con-
taining registration information and their four
random numbers. Course preference will still
be organized in the “tree” format, but instead
of filling in Scantron sheets, an interactive
tree will be available online.

Students will access the course site through
a link on the Registrar’s website. They will
then be asked to provide their ID number. A
PIN will also be necessary. Faculty advisors
will distribute PINs to their advisees; releas-
ing a PIN will be tantamount to approving the
student’s schedule choice. This effectively
eliminates the need for advisor signatures.
Since interaction with the advisor will remain
an integral part of registration, Dr. Epes
stresses the importance of students taking the
responsibility of contacting their advisors
early to make appointments.

Once the site is accessed, the program will
confirm the student’s name to ensure they
entered the correct ID number. Once a CRN
number is entered, the program will display
the name of the corresponding class, enabling

‘the user to make sure he or she has chosen the

Sports Information
Senior Ryan Stroker (hitting) helped Davidson
knock off The Citadel, ranked No. 18 in the
nation by Collegiate BaseballStory, page 16.

Technology makes
registration easier

By JessicA MERING

intended class. It will also be possible to save
choices and then reopen the worksheet al
another time.

When the worksheet is complete, the stu-
dent will send it electronically to the Regis-
trar. During this inaugural run, Dr. Epes is
asking students to print out a copy of their tree
and submit it, in paper form, to his office as a
precaution. “The downside is that this may be
unpredictable. We’ ve done numerous trials,
so we’re confident that all information will
go into the right files. However, we have no
way of anticipating other problems, like what

see WebTree, page 6

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Decision Davidson

This coming weekend nearly two hundred ac-
cepted students will get a good honest look at whatit’s
like to attend this college. In the meantime, the

admissions staff is busily preparing for their arrival.

NEws page 3

Rape Awareness

The days from March 28 to April 7 at. Davidson
have been dedicated to increasing consciousness of
sexual assaults among the school community in the
hope of promoting discourse and achieving preven-
tion. The Rape Awareness committee has sponsored

numerous events towards that end.

NEws page 4

New senators sound off

Get the inside scoop on the recently elected SGA
senators. Read their profiles, and find out who repre-
sents your interests to the student government.

News page 7

Our restaurant critic visits a favorite local eatery
and offers her thoughts on the fare.

Arts & Livinc ® page 8

