College n names ss visiting professor to build n new y “Program for the Theological Exploration of Vocation”

Lilly,
from page I

courage Christians to pursue the ministry as
avocation. As Davidson Chaplain Rob Spach
commented, “[In our society] ordained min-
istry is not on the radar screen of professions
that most people consider.” Hence, the
program seeks to “make them aware of this
possibility.”

Moving outward, the program is also in-
tended to identify those with equally strong
Christian commitments whose talents and
interests point them in a direction other than
the ministry. Beach-Verhey expects that
“there will be some [individuals] who have
religious language and can apply it to other
areas but don’t know how.” This area of the
program intends to demonstrate to these indi-
viduals how they can relate their beliefs to
their intended career.

Finally, the program will address the needs
of those students who have a sense of belief
and meaning that is not necessarily Christian
or even religious at all. Kuykendall ex-
plained that this third and broadest facet of
the program is based on the belief that “every-
one has a sense that what he or she thinks is
good .. . has something to do with how one
‘lives his or her life.”

One of the specific opportunities Beach-
Verhey will administer is the Lilly Scholars
program. This is one of the primary ways the
office will encourage students to explore the
ordained ministry as acareer path. °

After applying in the spring of their junior
year, Lilly scholars will receive a stipend
towards a summer internship in some type of:

church work. Each recipient then enjoys a
two-year scholarship towards his or her final
year at Davidson and first year at a theologi-
cal schools

This program will not only assist students
who know they are interested in pursuing the
ministry but will also give those students who
are not certain where their interests will take
them a look at theological education.

“Often students don’t have a clear picture
of theological education,” remarked Spach.
“(A year in seminary] will be a great oppor-
tunity for students to explore the possibility,
even if they aren’t sure they want to go into
the ministry.”

“We want to get students to try ministry
and get that first peg in the ground,” agreed
Kuykendall.

Another interesting opportunity provided
by the program is the Sophomore Experi-

ence. Beach-Verhey elaborated on this new

concept.

“The new sophomore retreats are some-
thing people will be hearing about very soon;”
he noted. Beginning next academic year, the
office will sponsor two retreats for second-
year students, one at the beginning of the fall
semester and one at the beginning of the
spring semester.

The first will include speakers from career
counseling as well as alumni and local pro-
fessionals. These guests will help students
think about what talents, interests, and values
are important to them. They will also give
talks from their personal experiences about
the possible meanings of vocation.

Spach stressed the ecumenical nature of
these retreats. “This is a way of expressing a

Christian commitment that embraces students
from all these different traditions or students
with no particular tradition at all.”

The second retreat, at the beginning of the
spring semester, will focus more on develop-
ing the student-advisor relationship. Stu-
dents will also engage in more concrete re-
flection about possible major choices.

Beach-Verhey sees these retreats both as
an opportunity to enlarge students’ ability to
reflect on and to discuss work as vocation and
as a helpful venue to exercise those abilities.
“When I think about my job [as program
director], it’s like what I do as a teacher,” he
asserted. “I give them he resources to think in
new ways, and then I give them the opportu-
nity to explore and to do that kind of think-
ing.”

Besides the Lilly Scholars program and the
Sophomore Experience, other programs
funded by the Lilly grant include Davidson’s
theological education day, summer intern-
ships in ministry and service, funding for
more alternative breaks, a lecture series, and
service projects involving local congrega-

tions. Through these and other activities, the —

program will involve not only students but
also faculty, alumni, and the local commu-
nity in exploration of issues of vocation.

Kuykendall and Spach both feel that Beach-
Verhey is the right person to help the program
get underway. “He [Beach-Verhey] has the
best of both worlds,” said Kuykendall. “He’s
not a graduate [of Davidson], but he’s been a
big part of this community and he knows
many students personally.”

Spach concurred. “TI think he is an excel-

lent example of someone who integrates rig-
orous scholarship with a deep life of faith and
will encourage students to bring those things
together.”

From his own perspective, Beach-Verhey
spoke of his “passion” for practical ethics as
a definite asset: “I have a real passion and
concern for how people live out their daily
lives and what the meaning behind it is.”

The entire endeavor is on a tight schedule,
though. The first of the sophomore retreats
begins in six months, and the first Lilly Schol-
ars will submit applications next year. “It’s a
pretty time-specific schedule he’s working
with,” noted Kuykendall. :

To that end, the new office is offering three
summer internships to students to help build
the office from scratch. “The interns will do
everything from academic research to writ-
ing brochures to setting up the webpage for
the program,” explained Beach-Verhey. He
feels that this presents a great opportunity to
students to be involved in an exciting new
project.

Once the office is up and running, two full-
time staff members will step in. The college
is currently looking to hire a program coordi-
nator and a staff assistant.. According to
Beach-Verhey, all three full-time staff mem-
bers will probably work very closely to-
gether.

Though the program’s roots are in Chris-
tianity, Beach-Verhey expressed the desire
that it remain “inclusive.”

“Tt is my hope that people with different
view will come together to think about the
meaning of life and of life’s work.”

- Catagory Hil Election Candidates
j Rising Sor Rising seis | Rimi Chau
SGA Senator SGA Senator Victor Lindsay
Bobby Pittenger Jeff Wheeler Rachel May
Allison Perry Owen Barrow. Kathryn Butterworth
Kay McCloy Hannah Fubr Kristin Gyllenborg
KUD2ZU tee "Charles Washington Kristin Nick!
xe ee Soe Eron Earley-Thiele Katie Meyer
Sern cess SGA Senator ene a
pape : SC nator Colin Eagan rge Edw
\ TH BROA aedeoe
ON] SONU WP lal ISRO) /AID “Gry Pa ab aerteasa oer Boar
-KevinEpps Jeff Larrimore Anna Mallet
ocated in quaint downtown Moore aes Yate | : orga : ee :
enjoy your dining experience Hak Park as

in comfortable elegance

ina historical house

dinner specials st

arting at $9

Do you want to leave your mark on Davidson?
Would you like to be a Senior Admission Fellow?

To the Class of 2003:

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid is now accepting
applications for next year’s Senior Admission Fellows. Fellows are
trained as para-professional Admission Counselors and are charged
with interviewing prospective students and aiding in the recruitment
of the incoming first-year class. By helping to recruit Davidson’s next
“greatest ever” class of students, Fellows leave a lasting impression
on the Davidson campus.

Applications can be found at the front desk in
Grey House (Admission).

The deadline for completed applications is Wednesday, April 4.

Students with questions may contact John Bell at ext. 2186

