Tue DavinsoniAN

___ PERSPECTIVES
Students challenge peers:

rape is a problem at Davidson

Why I am
ashamed to
be a Wildcat

We’re busy students, this know. U.S.

News and World Report stated that we have
the heaviest workload in the nation. I’m not
going to dispute this point. I know how hard
I work, and I know there are a lot of you who
work even harder. We’ re at Davidson
for academics first and
foremost; this point is
undisputed. But for
the majority of us, af-
ter classes there are
other activities we
pursue, whether they
are sports, a frater-
nity or eating- |
house, SGA, or the
Davidsonian. In-
volvement in extra-
curricular activities
characterizes the stu-
dent body. I know this
becauseI’manextracurricu- _lar junkie. I
can’t say “no” to chairing a committee or
joining an organization. We add these activi-
ties to our lives, and suddenly our already
busy schedules become even more hectic.
Sometimes it’s hard to fit anything more into
our already over-crammed agendas.
. My disappointment doesn’t come from stu-
dents’ over-involvement, but from the choices
we make as to what activities and events not
to attend. Case in point, Thursday night,
there was a speaker here sponsored by the
Rape Awareness week. There were flyers up
in every resident hall, all over Chambers, and
an advertisement in The Davidsonian. It was
announced at every fraternity and eating-
house both earlier that week and during din-
ner on Thursday. The result? Fourteen
people shoed up. Fourteen. That’s pathetic.
Before the speaker began, I frantically ran
through the Union and the Library and tried to
convince people to come. Some people had
legitimate excuses. Others told me they “have
too much work tonight.” Some even said,
“rape isn’t my thing.”

Here’s anewsflash, Davidson: rape is your
thing. Rape happens on this campus and to
your friends, and the only way to stop it is to
educate people about it. There are two ways
to approach rape: pretend it’s not there and
realize in a short time that one of your friends
just became a statistic, or acknowledge the
problem and help stop it. The choice is yours,
and, from what I saw Thursday night most of
you are waiting to see the statistics grow.

Amanda Mordavsky ‘02

‘Rape: an issue of
utmost concern

Rape is a problem at Davidson. There, I
said it. Rape is a problem at Davidson. It
would be a problem if it had only happened
once, but the sad fact of the matter is that it
happens every year to several people. It
seems absurd that this sort of thing could go
largely unnoticed. Legally, rape is compa-

rable to armed robbery, but if someone held —

up the Outpost, it would make the front page
of the Davidsonian, whereas rapes happen
every year and most people don’t even know
about them.

We don’t know for sure how prevalent rape
and sexual assault are at Davidson because

they are so seldom reported. I could quote
you one of the various statistics about the
incidence of rape on college campuses na-
tionally, but I’m not going to quote a number
because many people wouldn’t believe that
the numbers I would quote could be as high as
they are, and I would rather have them listen
to my argument than try to pick apart num-
bers that I did not determine. If you want
statistics check out the end of the article.

While I can’t be sure about other people’s
statistics, I can be sure about what I’ve en-
countered at Davidson. From what I have
ally seen and heard, we

have no reason to as-
sume that our inci-
dence rates are sig-
nificantly higher or
lower than the national
averages. It does hap-
pen here, and it hap-
pens much more than
most people realize. I
know ofat least adozen
cases here, and I’m
positive that there are
many more cases that I
don’t know about.

To decrease the inci-
dence of rape, I think that
there are three main problems that Davidson
needs to address. First and foremost, I think
that a large part of the problem here at David-
son is the way in which we approach sex and
relationships. I realize.that this is a generali-
zation (not, I think, an unfair one), but for a
large portion of people on campus, the main
outlets for recreation and purely social inter-
actions (i.e. not talking about class) with the
opposite sex coincide with the use of alcohol.
Alcohol releases sexual inhibitions and ob-
scures communication between partners, and
in some individuals, the use of alcohol in-
creases aggression, especially toward women.
I don’t like throwing statistics around, but I
read a study that said that up to 73% of all
rapes involve alcohol use by at least one
person involved. When alcohol use is in-
volved in a sexual encounter, even people
who would normally be responsive to their
partners are more likely to misconstrue; or
even worse purposefully ignore, their
partner’s requests to stop.

A second problem is that there is a lot of
pressure for people to “hook up” — both for
men and women. In the four years that I have
been here, I still have not been able to get my
mind around the idea that drunken random

person-

hook ups are normal and that dating while —

sober is seen as somewhat of an anomaly. It
seems totally contrary to my experiences
before Davidson, but most students here
quickly adjust to the idea that getting drunk
and having intimate relations with someone
you know relatively little about is not only
okay, but to a certain extent expected.

I think that especially for underclassmen
men and women, if you don’t hook up at least
occasionally then it begins to weigh on one’s
self-esteem. “Not getting any” is easily trans-

lated into “Not being able to get any,” al-

though it’s a logical leap as well as a poor way
to evaluate self-worth. This problem is com-
pounded by the fact that many students who
come here are naive when it comes to rela-
tionships with the opposite sex and regarding
the potential pitfalls of such behavior. Put-
ting aside for a moment the increased possi-
bility of rape and sexual assault that accom-
pany these sexual habits, many people ac-
quire reputations as “easy” or “dirty” early in
their college careers that they are unable to
overcome and that will continue to under-
mine their ability to have normal relation-

‘ships with members of the opposite sex

throughout their time at Davidson. Yes,

campus is small; yes, rumors spread.

Third, there is far too little general conver-
sation on campus about rape and sexual as-
sault. There are certain groups on campus
that talk about it a lot, and certain groups do
not talk about it at all. Unfortunately, I
believe that many of the ones who do not talk
about it are the ones to whom it happens and
who may not know how to deal with it or
where to turn when it occurs. Also, our

education efforts on campus would be greatly’

helped if we had an accurate picture of the
prevalence and patterns of rape and sexual
assault on campus.

It’s not just a problem with random hook
ups from the Court, it happens to Indepen-
dents, it happens off-campus, it happens with
visitors from off-campus, and it happens be-
tween boyfriends and girlfriends. Unfortu-
nately, until we know more about the specif-
ics of rape on campus, Health Educators and
the Rape Awareness Committee can only
focus their attention on educating people
where they think it is needed the most, but
those people may not be the most at risk.
Even worse, these people may not know their
own risk and be resistant to efforts made to

it happens to them or someone they know. I _
have no doubt that several people who do not
know enough about rape and how it occurs at
Davidson have already stopped reading this |
article prior to this statement because they
think they know this stuff already.

In closing, I’d like to add that rape is not

. just a women’s issue. It affects men. It has

implications for the way women interact with
them, it has implications for the way men
interact with each other, and rape has legal
consequences if committed. If even the tame
statistics are right, then whether you are aware
of.it or not, you know someone who has been
raped and you know someone who has raped.
This is unacceptable.

Taylor Herbert ‘01

For more information and statistics:

http://www.cs.utk.edu/~bartley/sa/
stats.html

http://www.ncfm.org/fact1.html.

http://www.rainn.org/stats. html,

What IS the SGA? Questions un-
asked are questions unanswered

By BERNARD VAN DER LANDE
Special Contributor

“What is the SGA? What do you guys
(SGA reps.) do!?”

Having just finished my term as freshman
senator, I still ask such questions. They are
pertinent, but they are generally dismissed.
Maybe I’m wrong. - Maybe they’ re not asked
at all...

Questions should be asked.

I’ve been discontent with SGA for nearly
the whole year. I’ ve done nothing about it...
Until Tuesday. Until now.

On Tuesday night, I walked out of what
could be the last SGA meeting I attend as a

representative. I didn’t feel sad; now I do.

Rather, I felt stupidly smug. Now I am
annoyed with myself.

“Our job as senators is not to represent the
SGA to the student body, but, rather, to rep-
resent the student body to the SGA,” I pointed
out, happy that I had something of significant
relevance to say. Iam no Shakespeare. I am
neither eloquent nor profound, but I am sin-
cere. Only, I was sincere too late. It’s adamn
shame that when I finally understand my
discontentedness, I am one of many in a mere
constituency.

Now I realize something else. Students, as

a part of that constituency, have an enormous

amount of power. “What is SGA!?” SGA is
what you make of it. What “we” do is
represent you. When I say that I’m annoyed,
I say that because I have blamed the SGA for
loosing sight of the fundamental goals of the
organization, when perhaps it is my fault as a
student.

Students need to speak up, to suggest, to
criticize, to become informed. This IS the
students’ government. If we don’t take part
though, all it will ever be is the SGA’s. Make
the representative’s your puppets. Let them
represent you! Employ them and their ser-

vices! Everyone’s voice counts.

SGA is now what the SGA makes of it.
Make it what you want of it. I gather that
many people have the notion that SGA does

‘very little beyond squabbling about finance,

inter-committee relationships, and parking
tickets. THIS IS NOT THE CASE. How
would you know if you don’t ask? Worse yet,
how could you stand by and not get involved
if you do think this is the case?! ;

As I look over all of the above, I fear I may .
have dug my own grave in the eyes of many
whom I truly respect. Let me set things
aright. - Your representatives were not selec-
tively elected out of the entire class for noth-
ing. SGA is full of hard workers who are
motivated to serve as SGA members. Serv-
ing as such allows for two potential things:
‘serving in and of itself or serving you.

Help give direction to the SGA, directions
for serving you.

Our SGA President recently declared that
one of the goals of his administration would
be to get the “SGA Word” out to the people.
This is great.- We all know its needed. That’s
not all there is to it, however.

I challenge you to get the word IN. SGA
now seems to be at its most simple form. It is
a governing body, which is often forced to act
within itself. Complaints come from within.
Ideas come from within. Solutions come from
within. The Association has a great team of
motivated individuals who will nail any prob-
lem you throw at them. In tight coordination
with the school’s administration, the SGA
has an enormous amount of potential. Feed
the fire. Give it fuel. Give it ideas. Hell, give
it complaints.

Change is wonderful. Generate it.

(To my fellow class members of 2004:
you've got some excellent representatives,
Hannah Fuhr, Owen Barrow, and Charles
Washington. “Help them help you.”’)

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year by the
Davidson College. One copy per student. Please address all
_ Davidsonian, P.O. Box 219, Davidson, NC :

® davidson.edu, ;

