‘Tur DavipsontaN
ae WEDNESDAY,
NOvEMBER 14, 2001

Defensive heroics lift Wildcats over A

By Jackie Davipson
Staff Writer

With starters Paul Nichols and John
Leverett sidelined with knee injuries, David-
son (5-4) looked to senior Ward Gibson to
supply the winning touch. Ultimately, how-
ever, it was Sam Fraundorf and the Wildcat
defense that secured the victory. In another
offensively sloppy game, characterized by
numerous turnovers, the Davidson defense
came up big, tallying three sacks and forcing
five turnovers en route to a 17-12 victory
over Austin Peay State University (3-7).

The defense was summoned early when,
seconds into the contest, senior Mike Tarver
fumbled the opening kickoff return in David-
son territory. The stingy Wildcat defense
valiantly protected the goal line, preventing
the APSU offense from reaching the endzone
and forcing the Governors to settle for a 28-
yard field goal.

Another Davidson turnover meant another
workout for the defense when Austin Peay
defensive back Corey Phillips picked off
Andrew Pickens on the Davidson 36 yard-
line. Once more, the Wildcat defense shut
down the opposing offense, limiting the Gov-
ernors to another field goal.

The Wildcat offense finally got in gear
early in the second quarter, marching 66
yards for the game’s first touchdown. The
drive featured freshman tight end Chris
Caison, who finished the game with five
receptions for 50 yards, including a one-yard
pass from Pickens for the score.

Caison’s reception remained the lone
touchdown of the half, giving the Wildcats a
10-6 lead going into the locker room.

In the second half, the Davidson defense
continued to make all the right plays, forcing
five Governor turnovers, one of which re-
sulted in Wildcat points. Davidson linebacker
Darryl Childers tipped a pass by Austin Peay
quarterback Matt Schmitz to cornerback Mo
Idlibi who went 25 yards for the score to give
the ’Cats a 17-6 lead. -

Austin Peay rallied early in the fourth
quarter behind wide receiver Ron Blair, who
caught a 59-yard pass from Schmitz, which
set up his 39-yard touchdown reception. This
pulled the Governors within 5.

Late in the fourth quarter, with APSU still
trailing by five, Blair was given the chance to
be a hero. Davidson senior Sam Fraundorf
rejected the idea.

On fourth down, Schmitz went to Blair
once again, but Fraundorf leveled Blair with
a monstrous hit, preventing him from catch-
ing the ball and preserving the Wildcat vic-
tory.

The majority of the ’Cats’ 169 yards were
courtesy of Gibson, who, in a most fitting
ending to his Davidson career, finished the
game with 128 total yards—110 rushing and
18 receiving—and accounted for more than
75 percent of Davidson’s total offense.

With the victory, the "Cats marked their
fourth consecutive winning season. The class

of 2002 concluded its four years with 31
victories, including the undefeated 2000 sea-
son, to become the most winning class in
Wildcat history.

Matt Monson

Jim Carney ’03 aided a strong defensive effort that registered three
sacks and forced five turnovers in the ’Cats final game of 2001.

Raleigh Robinson ’05 forces an Austin Peay fumble during last

ustin Peay

, Matt Monson

Saturday’s 17-12 victory over the Governors. The season finale
capped the Wildcats’ fourth straight winning season.

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Courage is resistance to fear, mastery of fear—not

absence of fear.”

‘Mark Twain

a
é
ele O O S
Q S 3} (0
O et for 8:0
6 Se
x * ee
A " MOOHESVE  &
F Biron: § oe
te tb - a < dow Ririigbtc ee ‘
MEen’s BASKETBALL Sos We ape SWIMMING
Nov. 16 @ Charlotte 8:05 Nov.17 = William & Mary 1:00
Nov. 20 @ North Carolina 7:00 WRESTLING
Nov. 23 Oglethorpe 7:00 Nov. 17 Old Dominion Tournament
Women’s BASKETBALL (Norfolk, VA)
Nov. 16-17 Miliary Academy Tournament | Nov.24 Carolina Open
(West Point, NY) | (Chapel Hill, NC)
Nov. 21 Jacksonville 4:00 VOLLEYBALL
Nov. 24-25 Ronald McDonald Classic Nov. 16-18 Southern Conf. Tournament
(Durham, NC) (Greensboro, NC)
Nov. 27 — College of Charleston

