Seog F

Hannibal:

By ;PHILup STEWART

“Staff V Writer:

The movie blurb branch of film criticism
eats up films like Hannibal; is there an easier
target than movies about cannibals?
“Hannibal is a delicious treat with many
flavors. . 7” “*. Hannibal is a gourmet buffet
of sutorives: ” “Hannibal is not for all
tastes...,”.or my personal favorite,
“...Hannibal bites.,..”

But worse than the blurb critic is one bent
on a sequel-bashing mission. Anyone enter-
ing the theater expecting another The Silence
of the Lambs will. of course leave feeling
disappointed. Using one film to condemn the
other is a pathetic copout.

Ten years ago The Silence of the Lambs
proved a success among both low and high-
brow audiences. The film entertains and
frightens on one level but transcends its genre
psychologically and emotionally onthe other.
Its sequel Hannibal is a different movie alto-
gether, but it too transcends the typical hor-
ror/suspense film, albeit in completely dif-
ferent ways.

Johnathan Demme’s film was an exercise
in suspense and subtlety, but Ridley Scott’s is
one of excess, honoring atmosphere, tone,
and image over story and suspense. In fact,
Hannibal’s story could be laughably ludi-
crous if it weren’t directed so well.

Thomas Harris’ novel of the same name
was reviled by most critics because of its
extreme violence: genetically engineered
man-eating boars, hanging and disembowel-
ment, dogs eating faces, and most notably,
dining on brains. These are all things normal
people have no desire to see, but Ridley Scott
‘keeps all of them in the film, combining the
Grand Guignol excess with beautiful photog-
raphy and style — we do not want to look, but
he forces us to — it looks too good.

The film opens with a startling technique
where the image slowly emerges from the
blackness until it finally fills the screen. Like

Circus provides a
great show at an
even better price

By Mark Murray
Staff Writer

Fora free ride to Charlotte and a fee of only
five dollars, nearly any show could qualify as
“The Greatest Show on Earth”. But Ringling
Brothers’ Barnum and Bailey Circus’ is not
just any show.

Last Saturday night forty-five Davidson
students traveled to the Charlotte Coliseum
to see nearly everything from elephants do-
ing handstands to women hanging by their
hair and juggling fire.

Abouta year ago Ringling Bros. performed
a few shows in my hometown and I attended
one with my niece and nephew. I was very
impressed with that performance, but was
equally impressed at how different the Char-
lotte show was. Instead of three motorcyclists
riding around a caged sphere, this show had a
clown balancing an extension ladder on his
chin, and a human cannonball. I find it re-
freshing to know that the acts are constantly
changing, and that the circus is actively try-
ing to maintain its title as “The Greatest Show
on Earth” after one hundred thirty yeas of
touring.

On a side note, a small group of protestors
had gathered outside the Coliseum to picket
about alleged animal abuse. Inside the Coli-
seum, though, employees were handing out
pamphlets explaining that Ringling Bros. is
world-renowned for taking great care of their
animals. So the evening was guilt-free, cheap
in cost, and quite possibly the “Greatest Show
on Earth”, Plus, the cotton candy was good!

sequel i is over the top but s ;

The Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal. Si-

the opening, most of the style in the film is
relatively simple but astonishingly evocative
and effective. The final fifteen minutes reach
some cosmic plateau where temporal move-
ment halts; Scott hypnotizes us with his pac-
ing and sound, and. Anthony Hopkins’
Hannibal Lecter and Julianne Moore’s Clarice
Starling do an amazing job of conveying that
same feeling. We feel as if we are experienc-
ing a single moment —
in time throughout
the entire section. .

One notable set
piece involves a
grand outdoor opera
scene. The music is
lavish and sumptu-
ous, almost contem-
plative. Watching
Hannibal relish in the
music is nothing short
of breathtaking.

But the best scene in the film is the one
everyone has been waiting to see for seven
years — one where Clarice and Hannibal
speak again. Rather than between glass, they
speak over cell phones in Union Station. The
scene is edited swiftly to increase intensity
and exposes the essential difference between

Anthony Hopkins is Hannibal.

lence was a quiet film full of small sublime
moments. Hannibal has few quiet moments,
valuing excess and sensory overload.

Both work well on their own terms, but
unfortunately Hannibal goes too far over-
the-top at times. In two scenes, music adds
awkward comedy, and Scott lingers on gro-
tesque images a bit too long. Seeing a slit
throat once is
enough, buthe makes
us see it twice, and
for prolonged peri-
ods. Blue light and
fog effects abound as
well and should have
been severely attenu-
ated, and does
Hannibal always
need to be lit from
underneath? Finally,
who needs to see a
pig bite into an already deformed man’s face?

On a more technical note, the sound in the
film is superb. On a crowded street we see a
man holding change in his hands, and all we
can hear is the jingle of the coins. The
opening credits are layered with many noises,
some sounding strangely like chewing. Heart-

. level — it’s more about dread than fear,

ness. Hannibal is not a scaly Gaon

the sound plays a truly vital role personifying
that dread.

Goldberg and Brandenburg play on the
soundtrack. We are in Hannibal’s world
now. Silence was Clarice’s movie; here she’s
more a secondary character. Ridley Scott
does a masterful job of giving us Hannibal’s
eyes. He surrounds us in beauty but punctu-
ates that with the gore and sick humor
Hannibal loves so much.

If youcan stomach the blood and accept the
plot, each subordinate to the direction, the —
film is some kind of masterpiece of transcen-
dence. Scott captures the tone of Lecter’s
psyche incredibly well. As a bonus, those —
knowing The Silence of Lambs will notice an
abundance of visual and aural homages to the
original film. Listen for the autopsy flash-
bulb, watch for the cleverly edited door-
entering sequence, and look at that jog in the
woods (there are many, many more examples).

Hannibal is a good movie. Academics and
critics are sure to either denounce it as gory
trash or praise its flair, but it’s hard to deny the
film is a visual feast (I had to get one in there).

Grade: B+

Academy hits the mark with leading actress
nominees, fumbles on supporting roles

By Derek Lou
Staff Writer

I guess ’'m kind of like John Cusack’s
character in High Fidelity, but instead of
being obsessed with and making lists about
records and women, I am obsessed with and
make lists about movies. It’s a sad, sad
existence.

Case in point: the Academy Awards. Why
do I care about who wins or who gets nomi-
nated?, They are a bunch of stupid gold
statuettes that mean absolutely nothing. This
is afact. And yet, year after year, I hope in
vain that the nominees and awards will recog-
nize the films and people that deserve recog-
nition. And they never do, as the announce-
ment of this year’s nominees on Tuesday
morning proved once again.

I was happy to see that Crouching Tiger,
Hidden Dragon and Traffic, two of the year’s
best movies, received best picture nomina-
tions. And, as expected, Erin Brockovich
earned anod as well. It’s a solid, entertaining
film, but it is certainly not best picture mate-
rial. Same goes for Chocolat, which un-
doubtedly owes much of its success to
Miramax. The monotonous, overly preten-
tious, messy, drab, and ultimately boring
Gladiator received the fifth best picture nomi-
nation. The year’s best film, You Can Count
on Me, was inexplicably ignored.

The best actor nominees were slightly more
deserving of their recognition than the best
picture nominees. Tom Hanks successfully
carried us through the somewhat long Cast
Away, and Russell Crowe’s nominated per-
formance is Gladiator’s only saving grace.

Nominee Javier Bardem played Cuban writer ~

Reinaldo Arenas in Before Night Falls. His
performance was, indeed, one of the year’s
best.

For his funny and haunting portrayal of the
Marquis de Sade in Quills, Oscar winner
Geoffry Rush justly received anod. Also, Ed
Harris was nominated for his self-directed
portrayal of Jackson Pollack in Pollack, a
film unseen by me. Robbed of a nomination,
Matt Damon gave the year’s best leading
actor performance in All the Pretty Horses. It
was a quiet, and thus tricky, role that Damon
handled masterfully.

It seems every year there is one category in
which all the nominees are, indeed, Oscar

For Best Picture -
For Best Actor -

For Best Actress -

For Best Director -

Derek’s Wish List
The Ones the Academy Missed

You Can Count ¢ on Me
Matt Damon, All the Pretty Horses

Bjork, Dancer in the Dark
For Best Supporting Actor -
Gary Oldman, The Contender
For Best Supporting Actress -
Jennifer Connelly, Requiem for a Dream

Eric Mendelsohn, Judy Berlin
Sophia Coppola, The Virgin Suicides

worthy. Last year it was the best supporting

actress category — this year it’s the leading

actress nominees.

In Requiem for a Dream, Ellen Burstyn
gave the year’s best performance. She was
touching, funny, and — at the end of the film
— revolting as an elderly woman who, by no
fault of her own, becomes addicted to drugs.
Laura Linney in You Can Count on Me was
simply too good to be overlooked, and the
Academy, for once, awarded greatness with a
nomination. Joan Allen (The Contender) and
Julia Roberts (Erin Brockovich) also gave
Oscar-caliber performances.

The last nominee, Juliette Binoche for
Chocolat, is the one nominee who! would not
have included on a list of the year’s best
performances. Nothing about her role struck
me as exceptional. The only great perfor-
mance the Academy failed to recognize was
Bjork’s no-holds-bar work in the emotion-
ally draining Dancer in the Dark.

For best supporting.actor, Jeff Bridges (The
Contender), Willem Dafoe (Shadow of the
Vampire), Benicio del Toro (Traffic), Albert
Finney (Erin Brockovich), and Joaquin Phoe-
nix (Gladiator) were nominated. The only
qualm I have with the Academy’s choices is
its inclusion of Phoenix’s pointlessly bizarre
role in Gladiator and its exclusion of Gary
Oldman’s sinister performance in The Con-
tender.

The worst collection of nominees was the

supporting actresses. As entertaining as Judi

Dench (Chocolat) and Julie Walters (Billy
Elliot) were, their wrongfully nominated per-
formances lacked any depth and existed only
to spice up their film’s stories. On the other
hand, Almost Famous’ s Frances McDormand
and Kate Hudson, who I hope and think will
win, were more than deserving of their nomi-
nations.

Finally, Pollack’s Marcia Gay Harden was
recognized by the Academy for her portrayal
of Jackson Pollack’s wife. But why, oh why,
was Jennifer Connelly overlooked for her
harrowing and heartfelt performance in Re-
quiem for a Dream? Perhaps Academy vot-
ers were scared to reward a role as graphic as
hers was.

For directing, Stephen Daldry was wrongly
nominated for Billy Elliot, a film laden with
inconsistencies and melodrama. Similarly,
Ridley Scott’s nomination for Gladiator was
undeserved.

On the other hand, Ang Lee finally re-
ceived a hard-earned nomination for Crouch-
ing Tiger, Hidden Dragon. And, for the first
time since 1938, a director received two nomi-
nations: Steven Soderbergh was recognized
for Erin Brockovich and Traffic. He deserves
to win for Traffic. Not surprisingly, the
Academy neglected the brilliant direction of
Eric Mendelsohn (Judy Berlin) and Sophia
Coppola (The Virgin Suicides).

The Oscars will be presented live on March
25 on ABC at 8:00pm.

Ba a a a a a We hd aoe ag ad ae ha Se
