Cinco de Mayo Car Wash

* Pomer Hating Honse will beliciding «
car wash on Saturday, May 5th (Cinco
De Mayo) at 1:30pm in front of Turner
House. The cost will be five bucks per
car and the proceeds will go toward
replacing items sacrificed during parties
and such (couches, tables, patio furni-
ture, etc.).

Come hang out with the ladies of
Turner accompanied by some good mu-
sic while they clean the pollen off of
your car. The possibility of some cam-
pus-wide famous Turner food should
make the Cinco de Mayo Car Wash a
definite Saturday appointment!

In last week’s Davidsonian,
Lindy Baldwin’s article was mis-
| takenly attributed to Colin Eagan.
| Eagan’s was attributed to Baldwin.

ae, Burcin Harpin
Special Correspondent

In a grizzly scene here onthe campus of
Highly Selective Independent Liberal Arts
College Monday night, hundreds of students
armed with water guns and water balloons
stormed the registrar’ s office after an innova-
tive plan for online class registration went
awry.The plan, dubbed “‘Webistration,” was
the brainchild of the college registrar’ s office
but apparently fell short of students’ expecta-
tions.

Only as the deadline loomed for submitting
course preferences did students learn that
Technology Services had equipped the server
to handle approximately one class request
every five hours.

The revolt apparently begani in the library,
where students began hurling books at each
other in a futile‘attempt to knock people out
and reduce the amount of traffic clogging

the server.

“You shouldn’t throw books, you barbar-
ians. Go back to your fraternity clubs,” a
professor of German protested just before a
volume of The Reason Why We Fund College
Athletics struck him unconscious.

Amid the chaos, one student sprung open a
nondescript door only to find a stash of water
weaponry, leather straps, and a can of Turtle
Wax. Library workers later insisted that the
supplies were used only for “emergency book
repair.”

Armed with Super Soakers and water bal-
loons, the student mob made its way to the
main academic building. Almost 1000 stu-
dents tore down the hallowed hall of learning,
indiscriminately wetting posters, walls, staff
members and even other students.

“T wet myself,” said the men’s basketball
team’s junior manager, who struggled with
the intricacy of a water gun trigger.

Violent college mob attacks registrar

The registrar had already barricaded him-
self in his office when students arrived.

“Webtree was never supposed to be this
bad,” he yelled from inside his office. “Tech-
nology Services told me I had to use it or else
they would keep me from accessing my
email.”

But that did not appease the mob who knew
that email access was simply a myth from

_ freshman orientation.

As the students burst into the registrar’s
office, he panicked and jumped out his first
floor window. He tried to escape on a com-
munity bike, but his flight was deterred when
the chain slipped off.

A swarm of students quickly surrounded
him and drowned him in water gun fire. He
fought the streams of water well enough, but
he could not defend himself against the water
balloon launcher that a masked trio used to
pelt him in the face repeatedly with water
balloons.

By nightfall, the crowd had dispersed and
campus life had returned to normal — al-
most.

One witness did report seeing a shadowy
figure about four feet tall scampering away
from campus and hear the person mumbling
something about “gettin’ his sweet Internet
elsewhere,” the source reported.

In response to the registrar’s accusation,
Technology Services later released a state-
ment saying that its design was state-of-the-
art and even exceeded the standards set forth

‘in what TS considers its bible-Terwillicker

and Geech’s How to Plug in a Toaster.

“We executed code 14769er in compliance
with the procedure for using the XR1 micro-
chip at vortex speed and we had no prob-
lems,” said a TS press release. “We vigor-
ously stand behind our programmers and we
support them, too.”

Highly Selective Independent Liberal Arts
College is a highly selective independent
liberal arts college for 1,601 students. Since
its establishment in 1838, the college has
graduated 22 Rhodes Scholars and is consis-
tently ranked among the top liberal arts col-
leges in the country by U.S. News and World
Report magazine.

Kappa Sig bowls for charity

By Patrick BAETJER
Special Contributer

Harwod Curry’s, ‘02, hand was cramped,
his fingers locked in a clutching: position.
Curry had just bowled from 9 a.m. until 6
p.m., testing the limits of his bowling prow-
ess and the durability of his hand. —

Curry, along with his Kappa Sigma broth-
ers, spent Friday, April 20 bowling at the
Northcross Bowling Lanes to raise money
and awareness for the March of Dimes. Bowl-
ing for Babies, Kappa Sigma’s annual com-
munity service event, raised money through
the sale of T-shirts and raffle tickets. A
variety of local businesses donated gift cer-
tificates that the brothers used in a raffle. The
brothers encouraged all Patterson Court or-
ganizations to come out and bowl as well as
independents. The fraternity estimates that
about fifteen non-court affiliated students
came out to help raise awareness for the

March of Dimes.

Kate Morris, ‘04, said, “I had a lot of fun.
My arm is really sore! It’s great that these
guys are out here trying to do something to
help out the community.”

Kappa Sigma members were seen rushing
back and forth between the bowling alley and
class, madly getting a few frames in before
school called again. Kappa Sigma Service
Chair Jeremy Schwartz, ‘03, organized the
event.. Schwartz, a very accomplished bowler, »
felt that the event was a success.

“We had a great time with Bowling for
Babies again this year. As a house, it’s the
best community service project we do
every year and we have a great time doing
it,” he said.

Kappa Sigma thanks everyone who was
able to make it out to bowl, and they look.
forward to doing the project again next
spring.
