In the spirit of his championed “compas-
sionate conservatism,” this week President
Bush created an office to gain federal fund-
ing for faith based organizations working to
correct social problems.

Bush announced the formation of the
White House Office of Faith-Based and
Community Initiatives. In a related execu-
tive order, Bush called for the organization
of faith-based centers in five executive de-
partments.

Not surprisingly, the President’s decision
immediately stirred controversy over
whether such programs would violate the
principle of the separation of church and
state. Obviously, few Americans would
wish to see their tax dollars fund the prosely-
tizing of various religious groups.

Upon further review, however, the merits
of sucha program are more readily apparent.
Organizations that would receive funding
provide services to help those suffering from
hunger, drug addiction, and homelessness —
problems facing many of our citizens re-
gardless of religious preference. Although
they may view their programs as ministry,
the focus is on serving those in need.

Additionally, these programs, unlike hy-
pothetical government alternatives, have the
distinct advantage of already being in exist-
ence. They already have a proven array of
methods and procedures. They have a will-
ing and capable workforce, who actually

Don’t count the churches out yet

want to help people and often do so for free.

By the same token, the government, by
funding private or non-profit groups, elimi-
nates the need to aggravate the bureaucratic
behemoth that is our federal government.
No new programs need be created.

Obviously, the government must exer-
cise discretion when dispersing these funds.
The money should necessarily go to repu-
table organizations, faith-based or other-
wise, who can demonstrate their ability and
commitment to helping the needy. Money
should go directly to assisting the under-
privileged; money should definitely not go
into an organization’s operating budget and
then indirectly into communities.

Similarly, programs must be non-coer-
cive, i.e., the organizations must not tie aid
to any type of religious or social “compen-
sation” for their services. In other words,
they cannot make church attendance a pre-
condition for assistance.

Within these parameters, though, there is
potential for great social progress. Bush’s
plan could bring together those who want to
help and those who need help and give them
an added (monetary) incentive to work to-
gether.

And that could be the answer to a lot of
people’s prayers.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors-in-chief

e@ ALENDA LUX UBI

The Davidsonian

ORTA LIBERTAS @

Epb!Tors-IN-CHIEF
Business MANAGERS

Copy Eprror
News Epirors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports Epirors
Arts. & Livinc Epitors

PERSPECTIVES EDITOR
PHOTOGRAHPY Eprtors

CIRCULATION MANAGER

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
“Peter Clark
David Johnston
Anna Kyanvig
Tim Cook
Jessica Mering

_ Peter Clark
David Johnston
Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin
Thomas Cullen
Martha Hunt
Mara*Mordini
Erin Berry
_Matt Whited
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian.html

sarees

Tue DAvIpsONIAN
WEDNESDAY, ©
January 31, 2001

Missing Lesson from Missing W’s

By Rick Bop
Special Contributor

_ It is tradition for an outgoing president to,
on the last day of his term, leave a note for the
new president on the Oval Office desk. Former
President Clinton did this and by all accounts
he left a kind and gracious message. Unfor-
tunately, the note was not the only remnant of
the Clinton White House that the Bush team
discovered on their first day of work. What
they did find was unprecedented in American
history. Inthe waning moments of the Clinton
presidency an unknown number of White
House staffers left a host of pranks for the
incoming President Bush.

Let me be the first to say that some of these
jokes were clever and funny—I think even
most Republicans would agree. Playing on
Bush’s tendency to sometimes speak less-
than-perfect English, there were professional-
looking signs affixed to meeting rooms in the
West Wing that read “Office of Strategery”
or “Office of Subliminable Messages.” Mak-
ing fun of Bush’s pledge to be a “uniter, not
a divider,” another sign read “Division of
Uniting.”

And then there were the W’s. A number of
computer keyboards in the White House and
the Old Executive Office Building next door
were found missing the W—or “Dubya”—
key. Most had been pried off and thrown
away; some ended up glued to the tops of
doorframes; some merely had the letter
blacked over. I must say that I also found this
to be an intelligent gag (though I admit won-
dering how many tax dollars would be wasted

replacing the keyboards or how much time
wasted fixing the old ones).

What’s unprecedented and in fact disturb-
ing is that the story does not end there. Upon
reporting to work after the inauguration, Vice
President Cheney found the desks in his of-
fices turned upside down and covered in
heaps of trash. The damage was so disgusting
it prompted an apologetic phone call from
Tipper Gore, former Vice President Al Gore’s
wife. The destruction in the White House
was rampant: trash in refrigerators, graffiti on
the walls, pornography, mixed in with plain
paper in printers, vulgar messages on
voicemails, viruses on computers, and re-
routed and sliced phone lines. Though no
official estimates have been made public, one
reporter pegged the cost of the destruction at
$200,000.

Certainly more important than the mon-
etary costs are the volumes these acts speak
about some of the personnel working on “the
people’s business” during the past eight years. .
Their final acts in the world’s most powerful
and the country’s most respected House were
not simply jocular. They were indecent, they
were vitriolic, and they were criminal.

As a Republican who deplored President
Clinton and much of his administration, I
would like to say that these final acts did not
surprise me in the least. Yet they did. Most
of us can accept pranks; they are useful for
lightening the mood in ausually serious world.
But we should not accept vandalism. We
cannot accept the destruction of the White
House. This is unprecedented, and it is wrong.

Eliminating aid contradicts Bush promise

By ALEX MASSENGALE AND JOSH CRAFT
Columnists

Despite his pledge to be a “uniter, not a
divider’, on his second day in office George
W. Bush decided to reinstate the so called
“Mexico City Policy.” First introduced by
Ronald Reagan, the policy functions to elimi-
nate US aid to organizations that provide
services related to abortion.

The implementation of this policy suggests
that the US will no longer finance interna-
tional abortions. In reality, US funds have not
financed international abortions since 1973
when Congress passed the Helms Amend-
ment. So, exactly what does this executive
order achieve?

“Today, Bush has sent another clear mes-
sage to the American people that he is willing
to sacrifice women’s health to score political
points with the religious right,” according to
Vicki Saporta, Executive Director of the
National Abortion Federation (NAF). Es-
sentially, the order bars the US from funding
groups that offer information on abortion,
regardless of whether or not these groups
actually offer abortions. Groups in this cat-
egory include family planning organizations

and health organizations that seek to promote ©

the use of contraceptives instead of abortion.
Other groups that fall under the umbrella of
this order are organizations that seek to re-
lieve women of pregnancies that resulted
from rape or incest. ‘

_ Bush spokesman Ari Fleischer claims the
order will not be divisive. “This position is
supported on a bipartisan basis,” he says.
“Most Americans do not support the use of
taxpayer money for these purposes.” That
assertion is patently false, says Saporta of
NAF: “The vast majority of Americans sup-
port international family planning. In fact,
the majority of Americans who voted for
President in the past election voted for a pro-
choice candidate.” The adoption: of this
“Policy” casts America in opposition to any

form of family planning. However, the re-
sults of the recent election and most opinion
polls show otherwise. Clearly this policy is
inconsistent with the interests of the Ameri-
can public.

One of the core values of American democ-
racy that we have long sought to promote at
home and abroad is free speech. Bush’s
policy severely limits freedom of speech of
medical professionals. This-order not
only controls what services doctors can and
cannot provide; it dictates what they can and
cannot say. Not only is this a gross violation
of their First Amendment right, but it could
lead to the dissemination of misinformation
about abortion. Without proper information
and services, abortion will become much
more dangerous for the women who choose
to have them.

The results of Bush’s order could be disas-
trous. According to Daniel Pellegrom of
Pathfinder International, “providing safe and
legal abortion services or even counseling
women. about the abortion option, or refuse
the money and be forced to scale back pro-
grams for maternal and child health, family
planning and AIDS preventions. Either way
lives will be lost.” :

Africa will suffer greatly as aid to these
groups declines. HIV and AIDS are spread-
ing rapidly throughout thecontinent. InZam-
bia, for example, one out of every five people
tests HIV positive. Only with education and
access to birth control can the AIDS/HIV
epidemic be contained. Bush’s new policy
and the cuts in reproductive services that
come with it will put millions of people at risk
and will exacerbate the AIDS‘epidemic.

Bush’s plan will not make abortions any
less frequent—only more dangerous. The
order imperils the lives and well being of
countless women. We hope that this order
will be enough to placate the religious right
and that Bush will end his reckless, undemo-
cratic crusade against a woman’s right to
choose.
