Can a small, residential, liberal arts col-
lege institutionalize “community building?”
Does it really need to? —

Some at Davidson apparently think so.
Student leaders recently presented their plans
for a campus-wide community hour to the
Faculty Executive Committee. The idea for
atime to meet informally in small groups, to
participate in thematic programming, or to
discuss campus issues certainly sounds ap-
pealing.

Moreover, its proponents are on target
with their analysis of the perceived weak-
nesses of the Davidson community.

Whether at meals, sporting events, wor-
ship, study groups, or the local post office,
interaction between students primarily, and
all Davidsonians generally, is becoming nar-
rower and more infrequent. This decline in
the actual, observable instances of commu-
nal behavior corresponds to a decline in the
intangible benefits of a strong community,

such as a “common memory” of shared

| experiences and a sense of a common mis-
sion. 7

This description is, of course, entirely

munity-oriented than other similar institu-
tions. In addition, this academic community
may simply have evolved. Nevertheless, the
fact remains that the college is not what it
once was, and some students, faculty, and
staff want to hold on to a piece of that past.

Will the community hour achieve this? In

relative. Davidson may be much more com- '

Would the community hour be a waste of time?

all likelihood, no. There are reasons for the
changes in social patterns at Davidson, and
lack of available time is not one of them.

Students are simply more concerned about
pursuing activities that most closely match
their own personal interests. The variety of
teams, clubs, and other organizations at
Davidson is evidence of this. We have
become quite adept at cramming the greatest
possible amount of “self-enrichment” into
our limited schedules. That this trend pulls
students away from the center and into ever-
smaller circles is simply a fact.

On the other hand, bringing people into
one room for two hours a week will not make
them think of themselves as acohesive whole.
If proximity bred community, our residence
and dining halls would have achieved that
already.

Could the community hour change this?
Possibly. However, it will only succeed if
the campus makes an effort to keep the hour
as it was intended to be — a time to pay
attention not to our own hectic lives but to
the lives of the people around us. Students,
faculty, and staff must come to believe that
their presence here is not coincidental — that
they have a purpose, that they belong.

This is far from impossible. But for an
institution, it is highly unlikely.

Richard Vinson and Aaron Houck,
Editors-in-chief

Recycling took the efforts
of many Davidson students

Weare writing in response to last week’ s
article entitled “Patterson Court Goes
Green: Houses Now Offer Recycling.” It
is extremely biased and misrepresents the
occurrences that led up to the.introduction
of recycling on Patterson Court.

The article opens with “It
only took one observant :
and resourceful Gray

mental focused committees, including, but
not limited to the Recycling Committee.
This is the second time in the past year
that the Davidsonian has made an error in
EAC’s association with the recycling pro-
gram. Last spring the Davidsonian also
gave SGA credit for EAC’s work on
ging recycling back to
ampus. In response to that

Patterson, sophomore
class president, to build
off of the already exist-
ing (but limited) recy-
cling program at
Davidson and make
Patterson Court environ-
mental friendly.” This
sentence is incorrect. It
took the efforts of MANY
observant and resourceful stu-
dents who were dedicated to the cause of
making Davidson more environmentally
friendly. Gray Patterson and the rest of
SGA put forth some effort in this endeavor.
However, the Physical Plant and the Envi-
ronmental Action Coalition (EAC), par-
ticularly its Recycling Committee, did the
bulk of the work; therefore they deserve
credit.

It should also be noted that EAC is not a
Committee, as the Davidsonian claims; it
is a coalition comprised of many environ-

article, Dr. David Mar-
tin, co-faculty advisor to
EAC, informed the
Davidsonian of EAC’s
extended effort in the
implementation of the
recycling program and
of their misnomer in re-
ferring to EAC as'acom-
uuctee. In response to his
letter, the Davidsonian apolo-
gized for their mistake and assured that it
would not happen again, but it reoccurred
last week.

Despite the multiple errors of last week’s
article, Patterson is correct in saying that
“we need a more conscious effort from all
of the houses.” This effort should begin
with the houses bringing their new recy-
cling bins inside from off their porches.

~

Margaret Holt, Mary Wise, and
Jill Neumayer

By Jos CRAFT
Columnist

On Thursday, the Senate approved the
nomination of John Ashcroft as the US Attor-
ney General. The Bush pick proved to be
extremely controversial because of Ashcroft’s
civil rights record and staunch opposition to
abortion. Although I-am deeply suspicious:
of how effectively Ashcroft will execute his
task of enforcing our nation’s laws, the ap-
pointment of an‘archconservative to a power-
ful position in the US government creates am
opportunity for the Bush administration to
alter the stereotypical relationship between
Republican politics and civil rights.

The voting rights of African-American
communities were clearly violated in this
past election. Thousands of black communi-
ties were disenfranchised by confusing and
unfair voting practices in Florida and across
the country. The Washington Post reported
that in Fulton County, Georgia, a largely
black district, 1 in 16 ballots were lost. By
comparison, in Cobb County, Georgia, an
affluent and predominantly white commu-
nity, only | in 200 ballots were lost. A higher
percentage of black voters used unreliable
voting systems. African-American organi-
zations across the country were outraged and
rallied to protest the results of the election.

In order to understand the anger shat Afri-
can-Americans felt after the 2000 election it
is necessary to consider the history of black
voters in this country.

After the civil war, Congress passed the
14th and 15th Amendments that. guaranteed
equal protection under the law and the right to

- vote for African-Americans. If the law had

worked as it was meant to, African-Ameri-
cans would not have experienced any more
difficulties with it. According to historian
Howard Zinn inA People’s History of the US,
the US government simply refused to follow
the amendments: “The 14th and 15th
amendments...gave the President .enough
authority to wipe out racial discrimination.

The Constitution demanded that the Presi-
dent execute the laws, but no President had
used that power.” Even after the Supreme
Court struck down Plessy v. Ferguson (1896)
and ruled in favor of desegregated education
in Brown v. Topeka Board of Education
(1954), the state and national governments of
the US did little to actually enforce these
provisions. Following the massive protests
in favor of civil rights, Presidents Kennedy
and Johnson passed the Civil Rights Act of
1964 and the Voting Rights Act of 1965.

at

Fads,
™*

. WEDNESDAY,
Fepruary 7, 2001

Civil Rights Issues for Bush Administration

Unfortunately, the 2000 election supported
the historical trend that the government fails
to provide equal protection in the realm of
voting. It does not matter how blacks lost
their right to vote. Under the Voting Rights
Act it is not necessary to prove the existence
of a conspiracy, only that there was a loss of
voting privileges. Although many presume
that African-Americans are treated equally
under the law, one only needs to refer to some
of today’s most contentious political issues to
see otherwise. An estimated 50% of black
children still remain in poverty. The death
penalty unfairly discriminates against blacks.
Furthermore, the US GPO discovered a “‘pat-
tern of evidence indicating racial disparities
in the charging, sentencing, and imposition
of the death penalty,” and that “those who
murdered whites were more likely to be sen-
tenced to death than those who murdered
blacks.” Schools and educational opportuni-
ties throughout the country still prove grossly
inadequate for black children. In his: book
Savage Inequalities, Jonathan Kozol warns
that “racial segregation has been, and contin-
ues to be, largely uncontested...In public
schooling, social policy has been turned back
almost one hundred years.” It is imperative
that Americans recognize the enormous
amount of racial inequality that still exists in
the U.S.

Traditionally, Republicans have tradition-
ally opposed measures that would, either
directly or indirectly, help to alleviate the
problems that African-Americans experience
today. By adopting a race-sensitive disposi-
tion Bush and his administration can change
that image. Instead of wondering why 9 out
of 10 blacks voted against George W. Bush,
both the Republicans and the Democrats need

_ to work to find ways to improve the situation

of African-Americans. Rather than pushing
for separate minority districts in order to
isolate the black vote, the Republicans should
embrace the agenda of African-Americans
and aggressively enforce civil rights laws.
Such an approach would prove beneficial for
the Republican_Party; it will be rewarded
with an increasing number of blacks choos-
ing to vote for it. According to NAACP
president Kweisi Mfume, “The Democratic
Party has taken black votes for granted...The
black vote is up for grabs.” A genuine con-
cern for civil rights, including legislation and
consistent enforcement of civil rights laws,
will allow the Republicans to gain minority
votes. I hope that the Bush administration -
will recognize this and take steps to end the
plight of African-Americans in our country.

The Davidsonian

2? ALEMDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS >

Epirors-IN-CHIEF .~
BusINEss. MANAGERS

Copy Eprror
News Epitors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports Epirors
Arts.& Livinc:-Eprtors

PERSPECTIVES EDITOR
PHOTOGRAHPY Eprrors

CIRCULATION MANAGER

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Anna Kyanvig

~~ \ Tim Cook
Jessica Mering
Peter Clark
David Johnston:
Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin
Thomas Cullen
Martha Hunt

' Mara Mordini
Erin Berry
Matt Whited
Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.davidson.edu/student/organizations/davidsonian/davidsonian. html

