son Catiege on se
signed to educate, enlighten and empower
people to respect the past, the show dramati-

-cally portrays the dream of freedom, justice,
and equality for all. Her free public perfor-
‘mance begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of _
the College Union. Call 894-2651 for more

information.

Edmonson and Levering

lecture on the Cold War —
Davidson College history professors Earl

Edmonson and Ralph. Levering will give a
presentation on Wednesday, March 14, en-

‘titled, “The Cold War: U. Ss. and Soviet Per-

Call 894-2039 bps more eigen

Woe d wind quintent per-
aa forms first concert

The I Davidson College music department

; presents the inaugural concert of the college’s
woodwind quintet on Wednesday, March
14. The free recital, which will include cham-
ber music featuring various student soloists,

begins at 8 p.m. in Hodson Hall of

Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Call 894-
2357 for more information.

“Edgar Allan Poe” comes
to Davidson :
Actor John Astin, best known for his mie

ily Chair in’ Theatre and Drama at the Uni-
versity of Texas at Austin, and is author of
The Cee ee as Critic, and Pres-

ee ths OOO RI ofthe College Union RB Building, ‘A reception will fo

ces by th Desa Rusk ua for
International Studies and the Davidson Col-

College Union. Call 894-2170 for more
Neca

as Gomez in the ori Si roles el 2

Ids the Zachary T. Scott Fam-

information, call eects

lege chapter of Amnesty International, and
begins at 7 p.m. in the 900 Room of the

Autobiography of. Alice B.
_ Toklas premiers
pci Irene ise s will direct a work--

By Timotuy Cook
News Editor

The Patterson Court Judiciary-Board an-
nounced Monday evening intentions to form

a committee to revise several by-laws that

govern its operation procedures. Board Chair
Mary Kat White ‘03, assured that rumors that
the J-Board had voted to nullify itself were
false, even after being posted on the agenda
as such.

The J-Board is the committee that links
Patterson Court and the Public Safety Office
and is the body in charge of disciplining the
fraternities and eating houses for PCC viola-
tions.

The by-laws at question pertain to the
amount of days the Public Safety and the J-
Board is allotted to inform a house of a
violation. Currently, the time is five days, but
due to excessive paper work the time may
change to seven days.

The question of biases during hearings is
also under scrutiny. J-Board advisors who
act as prosecutors during hearings also often

= Cohen,

from page I

President Robert Vagt was enthusiastic
about the lecture, commenting, “We need to
continue to speckle the campus not only with
speakers of note but with speakers who have
current insight.” Given the changes in for-
eign policy evident in the new administra-
tion, Vagt found Cohen’s visit especially
timely and relevant. He added that he hopes

decides a ig te
| revise by-laws

serve as defense advisors. The new plan is to
train more members from each house to act as
their own defense advisors and to be aware of
all PCC by-laws and restrictions. In essence

ahouse will have its own lawyer from within

the house.

The PCC also discussed its involvement
with the SGA Vamanos Van. Senator Kevin
Epps delivered a presentation asking for PCC
to supply drivers starting next year. Each
house would take two weekends a semester
and give three drivers who will be paid at
nearly $60 per night.

The Vamanos Van is a shuttle service of-
fered by Student Government Association
that takes students to.a variety of off-campus
places like the movie theatre and restaurants
in Charlotte.

Also four out of 20 red bikes have been
damaged almost to the point where salvaging
is unlikely after one week of service. PCC is
taking an active stride to keep the bike pro-
gram active and keep intoxicated and irre-
sponsible students from damaging them any
further.

the lecture “will spark debate on the cam-
pus.” a

Cohen will attend a dinner in Charlotte on
Friday, April 20. He will present the Wearn
Lecture on Saturday, April 21 at 11 am in
Love Auditorium in conjunction with Alumni

Weekend.

Alcohol policy violation 2/24/01

Officers and EMS responded to Little hall
to investigate a possible alcohol poisoning
complaint. Upon arrival officers found a
subject in the bathroom vomiting. EMS
examined the subject and determined there
was no need to transport to the hospital for
further examination. The subject was cited
for underage consumption of an alcohol
beverage. This incident will be forwarded
to the judicial officer for review.

Damage to property & trespass 2/24/01

Officer responded to Akers hall to inves-
tigate a damaged property complaint. The
complainant advised that she observed a
subject enter the room, without permission
and urinate on several items that were on
located ona desk. Investigation is pending.

Damage to property 2/23/01

Officer responded to CoHo eating-house
to investigate a damaged property com-
plaint. Upon arrival the officer observed a
broken window located at the rear of the
house. The approximate value of the dam-
age is $75. Investigation is pending.

Recovered property 2/22/01
Previously reported stolen bicycle was
recovered near Watts hall and returned to

| the owner.

. .

For2/19/01 - 2/24/01

. Larceny of a bicycle 2/20/01
Complainant stated that an unknown
subject(s) removed without consent his un-
locked bicycle from the bike rack located in
front of Watts hall. The bicycle in is black
and navy in color with a striped seat cover.
Investigation is pending.

Vehicle accident 2/19/01

Complainant stated that her parked ve-
hicle sustained damage to the left front quar-
ter panel between the dates of 1/16/01 —2/2/
01. The vehicle parked on campus and in the
town of Davidson during this time frame.
The owner of the other vehicle failed to
leave in contact.information. The approxi-
mate cost to repair the damage is $800.

Unlawful entry 2/19/01

Unknown person(s) entered the laundry
building without force and removed a roll of
pennies and 7 Davidson College departmen-
tal credit cards without consent. Investiga-
tion is pending.

Injured person 2/19/01

Officer responded to the southwest corner
of Belk residence hall to investigate an in-
jured person complaint. The victim stated
that she stumbled while walking causing her
to fall and injure her ankle. The victim
refused medical attention.

Compiled by Marlon Lynch, 5
Assistant Director of Campus Police

