Editorial

The ongoing investigation into alleged harassment on
Patterson Court raises a number of issues that this community
must address.

First, should the report prove true, we must face the

nauseating reality that hate crimes are being committed on -

this campus. It’s quite possible
that Davidson students were not
the ones responsible for such hei-
nous acts, but we should all be
enraged that our community has
been tainted by bigots.

Secondly, these allegations have
far-reaching implications for
Patterson Court. Should an entire
house—be it a fraternity or an
eating house—be held responsible
for the actions of individuals?

Holding an entire house respon-
sible enures that a wrong does not go unpunished even when
no one steps forward to accept responsibility.

At the same time,-an organization can quickly become a
scapegoat if the facts of an incident appear disjointed yet the
community perceives it as so reprehensible that the adminis-
tration feels pressured to assign blame somewhere.

Finally, let’s not forget we are all horior bound to come
forward with any information that will help the police, the
administration, and the Patterson Court Judicial Board con-
duct an accurate, fair and thorough investigation.

If we are faithful to the pledge we signed at freshman
orientation, then any incident on this campus that warrants
serious investigation—the current situtation as well as any
future events—will be sorted out in ajust and orderly manner.
Witnesses, perpetrators and victims will always be honor
bound to provide accurate information that will bring about.a
just resolution.

Tobe sure, details of the night of Oct. 6 remain unclear. We
must be careful to disregard rumor as just that, and keep our
emotions in check until the official investigation tells us
exactly what happened. But as we seek the facts, we should
not lose sight of the principles on which this community is
built—honor, integrity and personal responsibility.

Committed

While we appreciate and take seriously Mr. Casey's re-
sponse to our recent editorial about the campus bandwith
issue, we stand by our editorial and all its factual information.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor :
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook - Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin. Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editor
Derek Loh...» Tim Cook
4 Sports Editors
\Castiine Hauser Jimmy Swansbrough

; re fie _ Photography: ‘Editors,
' __ Matt Whited

aS Brit Berry

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

Writing tickets is just a
small part of my job

In response to “Letter to the Ed.” (Sept. 19) written by Will

Cannon and Charles Cushman.

I spoke with Will and Charles briefly and told them that I
would respond to the concerns brought up in their letter.

Regarding the party issue, this is a concern that needs to be
brought to the attention of RLO. I know that some of you like
to party, but please have some consideration for those who are
studying and have early classes.

The parking rules and regula-
tions appear to be a major issue
with some who live and work on
campus. However, there is ad-
equate parking here on campus
for students and faculty/staff.
There are roughly 1,499 student
parking spaces on campus, and
only 980 students are registered
to use the spaces. This leaves a
surplus of 519 student spaces available. I know that some
students might not feel safe parking in upper Satellite or
Senior Satellite and walking to their dorms. However, this
situation can be avoided by using the emergency call boxes
located around campus. The officers are happy to escort
anyone to his or her dorm.

Visitor spaces are off-limits to students at all times. Stu-
dents living off-campus are not considered visitors. All curbs
are considered fire lane, thus parking on them is illegal. This
is a violation with the Campus Police and also with the
Davidson Fire Chief.

Campus police officers write parking violations, but it is
just a small part of our jobs. If you park improperly, you are
susceptible to getting a ticket. If you receive a ticket and are
in question, you can come by our office and fill out an appeal
form. The appeals committee, which includes a student,
processes the appeals fairly and effectively. Also, your sug-
gestion to elect a police-student liaison isn’t such a bad idea.
In fact, Graham Watson is on the Public Safety Committee
and he is the police-student liaison.

Officer Tim Ramsey, Davidson Campus Police
Employee since 1978

I prefer to know viewpoint
of translators in advance

I read with interest “Writer distorted my position” (Trent
Foley, Letter to the Ed., Oct. 10). I didn’t read the original
letter upon which it was based, but the rebuttal itself caught
my attention.

Religion professor Trent Foley states, “I object to the
NASV’s literal interpretation of Scripture. That literal inter-
pretation includes the NASV translators’ conviction that the
Bible is ‘the inerrant word of God’ - a conviction which,
coming before the first word is translated, serves to shape the
translation rather than to be shaped by it.”

belove Scape fo bw he inet Weed of God im
should be disqualified because they will be guilty of a literal
interpretation. In essence, they are disqualified because of
their conviction and for stating it “even before the first word
is translated.” It is also implied that this conviction conflicts
with “the tradition of critical scholarship.” Personally, I
prefer to know the viewpoint of the translator before reading
his work rather than after (or never.) And, when it comes to
Scriptures, I would prefer to read a translation by someone
who believes it is the Word of God rather than by someone
who doesn’t.

We would all like to think that translations between lan-
guages and time periods are an exact enough science that
interpretation doesn’t enter the picture. Unfortunately, this
isn’t the case and each English translation will vary based on
many factors. There can be legitimate reasons for objecting
to a translation, but I didn’t read any mentioned in this
rebuttal. Perhaps in the original letter, there were specific
errors noted or problems pointed out to support the statement
“we must shun the NASV translation.”

I’m not a religion professor, but if I had to choose between
atranslation with a forthright statement of conviction and one
that has hidden or implied statements that the translator
doesn’t really think this is the inerrant Word of God, I would
choose the former.

Richard Salomon, M.D.

Treadmill accident is a
warning to us all

Last Thursday afternoon, at around 4 p.m., a mutual friend
to us all was injured in a nearly catastrophic series of events
that started innocently and ended terribly.

This friend was running on the treadmill when she decided
to close her eyes. She immediately fell down and was
propelled by the moving belt into the cinderblock wall. Daria
injured her shoulder and behind, and the psychological trauma
continues to this day.

I ask the Davidson College community: Must another
student suffer the same fate as Daria before any preventative
measures are taken? Closing one’s eyes on the treadmill
should not lead to disaster. I call upon all Davidson students
to offer themselves as spotters for their friends as they use the
treadmill. I call on the administration to implement treadmill
safety training courses for fitness center employees. I call
upon North Carolina to make funding available for all col-
leges so that safety rails and harnesses, as well as cinder block
wall padding, are available in all fitness centers. And I call
upon the federal government to create a new agency con-
cerned with the prevention of treadmill accidents in fitness
rooms nationwide.

Khoury Ashooh ‘03

Students are not the bad guys

In response to the Oct. 10 staff editorial.

A number of points in the Davidsonian editorial on campus
Internet bandwidth need correction. It is incorrect to say that
the problem is not defined or well understood. There are no
mysteries about this. Recreational uses of the Internet were
preventing teaching, learning, and other essential college
operations. People wanting to know about Davidson could
not get to our Web site because 75% of our outbound traffic
was peer to peer sharing of sound and video.

The notion that some more money will solve the problem
is mistaken. Increasing bandwidth by a factor of 3 produced
no improvement. Do we imagine that a factor of 10 would be
any different? Of course not. Improving the service simply
invites further exploitation.

Arguing that for $30,000 per year, students should have
anything and everything they want is a tired and feeble
argument. A huge fraction of tuition (and the additional
millions that come annually from gifts and other sources)
pays for the best liberal arts faculty in the nation. The cost of ©
Internet service is now large enough to impinge on faculty
salaries and other essentials. Shall we trade some faculty
positions to pay for more bandwidth? Obviously there comes

a point at which we must make do with what we can afford.

Finally, I want to make clear that I have not singled out
students as the bad guys here. My message about the band-
width crisis also went to the faculty and staff. I told the
Davidsonian editors when we met that an educational pro-
gram to clarify the problem and change behavior was directed
to the entire campus community.

Dr. John Casey |
Information Technology Services
