;

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

: WEDNESDAY, May 2, 2001

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 24

Staff Writer

The normally tranquil Davidson campus
erupted with controversy following Monday’s
announcement that pop star Britney Spears
will perform at Baker next fall. While many
hailed the choice as “totally cool,” others
expressed fears that Ms. Spears’ sexualized
image and complete lack of musical talent
wilLhave a negative impact on this conserva-
tive Southern community.

The decision to bring Ms. Spears to
Davidson was made by a secret meeting of
select Union Board officials. Strangely, this
meeting seems to have been attended exclu-
sively by men. A participant, who asked to
remain anonymous, admitted that Britney
Spears “really can’t sing, and her songs basi-
cally suck,” but justified his “yes” vote by
arguing, “she’s totally hot. How could we say
no?”

Apparently, Britney Spears herself initi-
ated talks to perform at Dayidson and has

College Communications
Current and former Presidents Vagt, Spencer, and Kuykendall look

forward to giving Ms. Spears a warm welcome to campus.

Spears to be main
attraction next year

By Linpy BALDWIN

agreed to appear at a fraction of her usual fee.
Davidson will be only one stopon Ms. Spears’
tour of 20 top liberal arts colleges. Sources
who read People Magazine a lot attribute this
tour to the fact that Ms. Spears is applying to
Maine’s exclusive Bowdoin College, which
usually rejects applicants who display the
total lack of intellectual depth and writing

| close-minded tradi-

ability demonstrated in Spears’ books, Britney |

Spears’ Heart to Heart and A Mother’s Gift.

In a press conference, Spears said she’s |
“like, so totally committed to higher educa- |

tion and stuff, so I’m like performing at lots
of colleges to show that there’s more to me
than, you know, the stuff that I do.”
Following the announcement, the entire
Music department barricaded themselves in

the Cunningham Fine Arts Building and re- |

fused to come out or eat until the invitation
was rescinded, citing Ms. Spears’ “unjusti-
fied mangling of innocent musical notes.”
After reading her books, the English depart-

see Spears, page 4

Taco Bell finds a new

home in the Outpost

By Coin EAGAN
Staff Writer

Patterson court-goers will soon have new
reason to claim a satisfying trip south of the
border that last Saturday night—in an abrupt,
last-minute decision, President Bobby Vagt
declared yesterday that the current Outpost
building will be the site of a future Taco Bell.
The installation of the fast food franchise,
scheduled for completion by First Night Down
of next semester, has crushed the hopes of the
Davidson International Association (DIA),
which had launched a bid for the soon-to-be
vacated Outpost house earlier this year.

“IT don’t see what the big deal is,” Vagt
commented between
dripping bites of a
Gordita Supreme.
“What’s more inter-
national than Taco
Bell?”

“This is typical of
Davidson—aiways
trying to shed its
small, southern,

tion. Humph, tacos
on campus. Before
you know it they’ll
be letting in girls,”
commented Bea
O’Problem’02
Certainly, the grievances of DIA are mul-
tifaceted. But, hey. Small price to pay for
food that tastes...terrible.
“Why not just construct a syrup of ipecac
factory and serve that Wednesday through
Saturday?” commented a surly Anita Bath’02.
Vagt remains sanguine. “Oh, they'll be
stuffing down Chalupas faster than Liz Tay-
lor after bad news from her plastic surgeon,”
he maintained.
“Listen, perhaps I would have been more
inclined to give the house to those interna-
tional kids if they could actually cook to save

Vagt fights for his life after KArnival

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

President Bobby Vagt had a close call at
last weekend’ s annual K Arnival when he was
rushed to the hospital to be treated for a knife

1 News

2 Briefly

7 Arts & Living
9 Perspectives
10 Sports

injury to the head.

The accident occurred during an amateur
knife-throwing display by the brothers of
KA, who had lined up several professors (all

of whom seem to have reputations as ‘tough .

graders’) and the president to serve as targets.

When Vagt’s turn came he was asked to place’

an apple on top of his head and stand perfectly
still as a KA brother attempted to toss a knife
through the apple.

Unfortunately, the knife struck Vagt’s skull
instead. An operation to remove the projéc-
tile and repair Vagt’s head was apparently
successful. Although doctors initially sus-
pected the knife may have injured Vagt’s
brain, sources close to the president say they
haven’t noticed any difference.

The brother involved expressed regret over
the incident, saying, “I really didn’t mean to
throw the knife that high.”

Sources say that President
Bobby Vagt is recovering well
after his near-death experience at
KArnival last month.

their lives,” Vagt continued. “But frankly, I
just wasn’t tasting it.” ete

Though many eagerly await the conve-
nience of a brand new, Cat-card friendly, fast
food establishment on Campus, several ma-
jorconcerns have been raised. Will Davidson
students have to clean the restaurant bath-
rooms, for example.

And what of nutrition? Vagt is boastful on
this note, asserting that essentially all Taco
Bell food items fulfill a whopping 532% of
the generic college student’s weekly caloric
intake, while simultaneously “putting other
sources of saturated fat to shame.”

In an effort to drum up student support for
such wholesome dishes, colorful menus have
been passed around
campus. Hak Shin
Park’04 had the op-
portunity to salivate
over one. “Aw, so
many tasty new
things to try, man,”
he noted. ‘“What’s
Botulism?”

DIA members re-
main incredulous of
Vagt’s intentions.
“What do I think of
Bobby Vagt?” asked
organization mem-
ber Ivana Tinkle’01.
“Bobby YACHT is
I’m sure that’s what he'll be
buying with the kickback he’s no doubt tak-
ing on this thing. Where’s the Tylenol.”

Ever optimistic, the President. describes
this addition to our campus as “without a
doubt the most outstanding accomplishment
to date in the school’s history.”

The Davidson College Taco Bell will open
toa wild campus-wide fiesta celebration next
fall.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

more like it.

Students up in arms

Special Correspondent Burgin Hardin delivers a
shocking report from a peer institution. After a
difficult registration session, students took out their

frustrations with water guns and balloons.

News page 2

PCC shows support of service

Patterson Court houses have sponsered numerous
and varied service projects this: year, like CoHo’s
upcoming foosball tournament.

News pages 4

Final interview

Martha Hunt closes out her series of student inter-
views with some perspectives from senior Matt
Clifford. He shared his views on the Honor Council,
swimming, and his Neopet.

Arts & Livinc page 7
High-cost housing

- Afterdoing some investigating, one students raises
questions about the price paid for housing at Davidson.
Is living on campus really worth it?

, PERSPECTIVES page 9

