- By Marritew Hurt

Special Contributor

As the lights come up on the stage of
Hodson Hall, the audience for the evening’s
performance of the Misanthrope sees a lone
actor walk onstage holding a newspaper.

That would be my newspaper. I am the
Assistant Stage Manager for this particular
production and I happened to be put in charge
of props - “Properties Master’, if you will.
What this means is I run around Charlotte
trying to find whatever random objects Jack
Beasley (the director) wants his characters to
use in their performance.

Why would I do this? Well, for those of
you who don’t know, the Theater Major (yes,
we do actually have a Theater Major) re-
quires it of us; it’s some guy’s idea to give us
an appreciation for ‘all the behind-the-stage
work I guess. The other Assistant Stage
Manager is Jamies Flieder, pulling double
duty as the Guard in the Ill-Fitted Police
Officer’s Uniform. Both of us work directly
under our high-strung Production Stage Man-
ager, Amanda Lanier: The PSM is respon-
sible for the actual running of the show and
everything that entails, such as rehearsal
schedules, lights, sound, the actors, and basi-
cally everything else that can go wrong. Most
PSMs are insomniacs,

There are worse plays I could be working

refle

.. I’m not the bigest fan of Moliére, but
bey. the prop list for this one is relatively
short and most of it is easy to find. The cast
is a good one too. No real prima donnas.
However, for a theater department produc-
tion this is an eclectic group; we have an
equal mix of established theater department
actors and several newcomers to the stage.

Chris Murray, the only Senior in the group,
has been castin the role of Alceste. I’m fairly
sure that this is his debut to the Hodson Hall
stage, and he has certainly attracted a new
kind of audience. More powerto him. It’s not
every performance that we have people give
our actors underwear afterward.

His Celimene, the female lead, is portrayed
by Anna Jensen - a fairly familiar actress to
our stage. Anna has taken to this role of
manipulator with an eerie alacrity, which is
good. The play revolves around them and
their interaction with each other and this is a
large responsibility for two actors... Carry-
ing a play that is. They seem up to it.

The supporting actors are the most unusual
group with whom have ever worked. Bring-
ing international flavor to the stage we have
Thomas Ward and Cahit Ece; the former
speaking with an English accent, despite the
fact he lives in Atlanta and the latter being
blessed with some quasi-Turkish / French
dialect that just sounds money as all hell.
Completing the cast we have Peter Lipsett,

Quest for dining pleasure
ends with satisfied stomachs

By JENN BUTLER

Staff Writer

Two months ago my roommate and I hun-
grily set out to have a good dinner. We were
excited because we knew exactly what we
wanted and just the place to get it.

Our tastebuds were set for Chinese, and we
headed to Wok on the Lake. But when we
pulled into the lot behind Teeter (the older
Teeter, not the Tajma) we were sadly disap-
pointed. Wok on the Lake had become a café
for Caribbean ‘cuisine. The trauma! Where
was a Davidsonian supposed to go when
struck with a craving for great sweet tea and
sesame chicken? The search was on.

Although we felt betrayed, we said goodbye
to our favorite spot behind Teeter, and forged
onward down the strip mall to Lotus 28. Not
knowing what to expect, we entered Lotus
and snacked on the complementary crunchy
noodles, Both of us enjoyed wonton soup,
which whet our appetites for the main course.

We enjoyed dumplings but didn’t finish
eating the meal with the same satisfaction
that Wok on the Lake provided. The food was

prepared quickly, and was decent, but itlacked ©

- unique flavor.

Also, the ambiance of the restaurant left
something to be desired, But after dinner we
enjoyed another complimentary surprise.
Besides the expected fortune cookie we re-
ceived Chinese donuts - similar to fried dough
and quite tasty. We still haven’t decided if
everyone gets this special dessert, but we
would like to think that NOT everyone gets it,
and that we received it just because we are
special.

Lotus was certainly not on the same level as
Wok on the Lake, but it was a feasible answer
to our cravings for a yummy dinner. Still, I
knew we could find better. This weekend I
experimented some more and had dinner
with another friend at Peninsula China Bis-
tro. This restaurant is also at a Harris Teeter
plaza. Itis located in the strip of stores behind
none other than the “‘Tajma Teeter’.

Upon arrival at the restaurant I could tell I
liked it more than Lotus 28. The kitchen is
open to the dining room, giving a feeling of
union between the customers, the cooks, and

the servers. Also, the menu at Peninsula

China Bistro provides a refreshing change
from the cuisine offered at many Chinese
restaurants.

For our appetizer we sampled chicken let-
tuce wraps, a great choice. Since the savory
chicken filling was not pre-wrapped in dough,
it served as a lighter option with which to start
our meal.

The highlight of our meal, besides the
restaurant’s ambiance and the appetizer, was
our main course. I chose a shrimp and aspara-
gus entrée, and my friend dined on orange
chicken. The presentation of each dish was
fabulous. The cooks arranged the food with
great garnishes and an artistic layout. Be-
sides looking great,-the food tasted great too.
My meal was not greasy at all, and the meat
and vegetables tasted extremely fresh. My
friend’s meal was light and sweet, and the
lavish orange slices that garnished her plate
did not overpower the flavor of the dish.

Although we did not receive a free dessert
at the end of our meal, it was not a tragedy
because the food was so good; we were too
full to eat dessert anyway. This restaurant is
a reasonably priced solution to hunger. An
appetizer, main course, and a drink averaged
twenty dollars. :

And so I left Peninsula China Bistro this
weekend with a restored confidence in my
dining options, comforted to know that when
the Union Café, McCallisters and Dean and
Delucawon’ t cut it, there is another place that
Ican go.

liere’s Misanthrope

Krystal High, Sara Rowidds, and Alan Stevens;
these constitute a young but very talented
group of actors that will make up the core of
the Theatre Department after I am gone.

Of course they pretty much make up the
core of the Department already. I’m simply
getting my backstage credits taken care of
while they get to be the stars.

Of course, this is a bit of frustrating for me
personally. I am the kind of guy who likes
being the center of attention at every event,

whether I’m present or not. But my time on
the Davidson stage has come and gone. It’s
these guys’ moment to shine and they do so
brilliantly.

I will take some small measure of pride
knowing that, although most who see this
play don’t even know I am part of it, all those
props are there because of me. . . that and the
fact I get to tear down the set after the last
performance. That’s always fun.

Delilahs bring harmony to Davidson

By RICHARD VINSON

Editor-in-chief

Celebrating the release of their debut al-
bum, the Delilahs hosted an open party Mon-
day night in the Morrison Room of the Union.

Students filed into the hall to purchase
copies of Falling into Place, munch on re-

freshments, and listen to Davidson’s all-fe-°

male a cappella group perform a few favor-
ites. Within minutes the room was packed
with visitors happily mingling and eating.

“T think the party was a great success!”
exclaimed member Jen Joslin ‘Ol. “TI cer-
tainly didn’t expect to see people waiting
outside the Morrison Room at 10 p.m,”

Fellow Delilah Ida Wainschel ’01 agreed.
“T was glad that it wasn’t just a small concert,
but friends and professors there to show sup-
port and celebrate the culmination of this
project.

“T think everyone who came had a good
time milling around, chatting, munching, and
enjoying the mini-concert - and we had a
blast!” she remarked.

The party attracted a mixed crowd of ad-
mirers, including several professors and staff
members. President Bobby Vagt, also in
attendance, commented on the “diversity” of
the group. “You couldn’t categorize them if
you tried.” ;

Turnout for the event was so great that
people had to climb atop chairs and tables to
see the stars perform. “I think the Morrison
Room was kind of small, but people were
kind enough to squish together,” admitted

Erin Berry

member Stephanie Kohler ’01.

During their performance, the Delilahs in-
troduced some of their newest members. They
recognized the contributions of first-year sing-
ers Pryor Dawson, Deneille Erikson, Alison
Heck, Maggie McDougall, and Grace Pate.
“Watch out, Davidson! These are absolutely
amazingly talented freshmen!” noted mem-
ber Michelle Lim 02.

Now that the rush is over, the Delilahs want
to return to preparing for future concerts.
“Unfortunately, we can’treally afford to bask
in post-CD-release euphoria because we are
always learning new music,” explained Joslin.

“We’re slowly stretching our scope be-
yond Davidson,” elaborated Wainschel. In
April the group will travel to Clemson to
participate in an a cappella competition.
“Also, we’re planning on singing briefly for
Women’s Month on March 12,” added Joslin.

The CDs moved quickly on the first night,
but the Delilahs still have enough copies to go
around. “Sales are good, but we still have
plenty,” commented Kohler.

Falling into Place is available on
CATKID.com, where fans can see the cover
art and listen to clips from the songs.
Wainschel also urged interested students to
contact one of the group or to visit the table
they will be staffing in Chambers.

The Delilahs also sent out a word of thanks
to the fans who have supported them. “I feel
that the CD is not only the product of all the
hard work put into arranging, rehearsing, and
performing, but also thanks to all those who
love hearing us sing,” said Lim.

