Tue DAVIDSONIAN
_ WEDNESDAY,
Apri 4, 2001

Mumia talk was good for political life on campus

By Joun Pitts
Columnist

Author Dan Flynn’s recent appearance on
the Davidson campus caused quite an uproar
among groups of all affiliations and pur-
poses. ‘Flynn was invited to Davidson by a
collection of conservative organizations on
campus to expose the truth concerning the
controversial trial and subsequent death row
conviction of cop killer Mumia Abu Jamal.

The event aimed to benefit all students
regardless of political affiliation and expo-
sure to the case. Some came to be educated
concerning the facts and controversy sur-
rounding Mumia’s trial and conviction. For
them, the speech furthered Davidson’ politi-
cal culture by providing educated fodder for
debate and discussion.

Conversely, the diehard followers of the
Davidson political scene came prepared for
battle with copious research and heated argu-
ments. Conservatives and liberals alike en-

joyed the only forum for true inter-party
debate since the Davidson presidential de-

bates at Eu and Phi Halls.

Mumia-acs and Mumia-haters alike should

be commended for the
quality of the content
presented during’ the
question and answer
session. Atothercam-
puses around the coun-
try Flynn had been
physieally accosted,
his book burned, or the
talk shouted down.
Davidson students
showed real class by
respecting Flynn’s
right to free speech.
Perhaps Dan
Flynn’s greatest ser-
vice to the campus was
his intentional effort
to offend and illicit re-
action. Beginning
with heated e-mail ex-
changes and culminat-
ing ina protest before the actual event, David-

“ey lenin

Author and speaker Dan Flynn
lecutred at Davidson last week.

b Bi [heathen

son had not experienced such an outpouring
of response to a single political event all year.

Thankfully, the
speech lived up to the
hype. Flynn effused
wit and sarcasm as he
deftly discredited
Mumia’s defense. His
tone was caustic and
his words penetrating.
“Mumia-acs” were
justly angered by
Flynn’s presentation,
but I argue that Flynn
paid a great service to
Davidson. In a cam-
pus where political
debate and activism
are often a silent pur-
suit, Flynn. proved
political fervor is
merely dormant
among the student
body. It is about time
someone jolted Davidson students to think

critically about current events and then act
upon their convictions.

Truly, what are beliefs if they can so easily
be discarded in the face of opposition?
Socrates once said, “I will not yield to any
man contrary to what is right, for fear of
death, even if I should die at once for not
yielding.”

Thankfully, no student at Davidson risks
death for his beliefs, but judging by the near |
silence on the campus concerning matters of
political importance one might wonder why
Davidson students remain so quite. Could
the fear of rebuke by both staff and peers be
the cause of this silence? Will professors of
differing opinion change their perception of
students who speak out? Will friends disap-
pear once the going gets tough?

Possibly, but what does one gain for yield-
ing other than a compromised belief and a
victory for those who oppose what is held so
dear? Davidson: Relish the opportunity we
have been given to disseminate our opinions
and when so moved — speak up!

Finding facts: Amnesty questions Flynn’s motives

By LAuREN SNYDER
Special Contributor

One of the advantages of living in a demo-
cratic society is the ability to participate in
public debate and to inspire others to take part
in positive action. Many campus groups
sponsor activities and bring speakers to David-
son in order to foster this kind of environ-
ment. ;

The dynamic involved in this discourse
becomes evident when we confront contro-
versial topics. Often heated debates generate

“strong sentiments from both sides of the
discussion, providing a way for concerned
groups and individuals to harness these ener-
gies and put them to use.

After a discussion as controversial as that
inspired by Dan Flynn’s presentation Wednes-
day night, it is left to us, as members of the

Davidson community, to direct the opinions *

espoused by students in a positive direction.

Dan Flynn’s discussion of the case of
Mumia Abu-Jamal sparked an intense debate
about the facts surrounding Daniel Faulkner’s
murder and the guilt or innocence of Mumia.
Mr. Flynn had obviously spent a great deal of
time and energy researching this case to es-
tablish facts proving Mumia’s guilt. I would
prefer not to use this space to reiterate the

points made Wednesday night. Instead I will
refer you to a report published by Amnesty
International on this specific case
(www.amnestyusa.org/abolish/reports/
mumia/), which involved the efforts of nu-
merous individuals and found evidence con-
tradicting much of what Mr. Flynn proposed.
One certainty in this case is that we will never
know all the facts surrounding the events that
occurred nearly twenty years ago.

Mr. Flynn argues that facts must take pre-
cedence over ideology in disputes of this
kind. While this is certainly a valid state-
ment, I must question the motives of those
who are dedicated to proving Mumia’s guilt.

When someone devotes such a large part of
his existence to undermining the worth of
another human being, itis likely that personal
convictions, and not “facts”, were the moti-
vation for embarking upon such a crusade.
As Mr. Flynn himself stated, start with a
theory and the facts will follow. While this
may certainly be true of Mumia’s supporters,
it is equally true of his opposition. Since the
facts of this case are so muddled, let us then
examine the underlying intentions involved
in these two searches for “truth.”

One approach, that of Mr. Flynn and his
organization Accuracy in Academia
(www.academia.org), searches for this truth

‘The Davidsonian

2e@ ALEMDA LUX UE!

ORTA LIBERTAS @

Eprtors-IN-CHIEF
Business MANAGERS

Copy Epiror
News Epirors

ADVERTISING MANAGERS
Sports Epirors

Arts & LivinG Epitors
PERSPECTIVES EDITOR

PHOTOGRAHPY EpriTrors

Aaron Houck
Richard Vinson ‘
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Anna Kyanvig
Tim Cook
Jessica Mering
Peter Clark
David Johnston
Matt Garfield
Burgin Hardin
Martha Hunt
Mara Mordini
Amy Poe
Erin Berry
Matt Whited

http://www .davidson,edu/davidsonian

without any obvious positive goal in sight. I
fail to see the purpose of a career devoted to

proving the guilt of a man already convicted .

and on death row or proving that AIDS is not
an epidemic (as Flynn attempts to do in an
article de-emphasizing the importance of
AIDS education and research), unless Mr.
Flynn is trying to tell us that there is some-
thing inherently wrong with standards of
decency demanding that we consider all hu-
man beings worthy of respect, fairness, and
shared community resources.
In order to focus on

immoral, this cause is yours. If you disagree
with the imprisonment of individuals based
on religious or political belief, if you consider
discrimination on the basis of race, gender, or
sexual orientation unacceptable, or if you
ascribe to-a spiritual tradition that promotes
faith in the divine spark with every human

being, you can be a human rights activist.
The facts of Mumia Abu-Jamal’s case can
be debated for years without any substantial
outcome, but reality speaks for itself. Reality
tells us that the justice system in this country
is so severely flawed

the “facts”, Flynn and
other participants in the
discussion argued that
this case should be con-
sidered solely on the
basis of reason and re-
main free from emotional bias. Occasionally
it has come to my attention that emotions are

_an integral part of the human experience, and

inevitably ina case where someone’s life is at
stake, discussion will involve emotional re-
action.

The attempt to remove emotion from a case
may be an attempt to remove humanity from
it as well. This is what allows us to create the
conditions that promote violence, then pun-
ish violent responses with ‘state-sanctioned
killing: a simple solution to a complex prob-
lem. It is also what allows the enslavement of
an entire race of people.

Even more importantly, I am concerned
that Mr. Flynn’s obsession with the “facts”
surrounding events that occurred twenty years
ago represents an avoidance of the countless
assaults on the humanity of certain groups of
individuals in this country.

When we transcend this narrow focus on
details and instead examine the social context
in which events like Daniel Faulkner’s mur-
der took place, we can direct our energy into
achieving positive social change and elimi-
nating practices that deny the fundamental
humanity of all people. he

We may be relying on ideology, but it is an
ideology for everyone who considers them-
selves members of a community. It is an
ideology based on the assumption that all
human beings are endowed with integrity
inherent in their existence.

If you believe genocide is wrong, this ide-
ology is for you. If you believe slavery is

I must question the motives
of those who are dedicated to
proving Mumia’s guilt.

A TATE RRR TIE

that itis nearly impos-
sible for an African-
American male to re-
ceive a fair trial.

The death penalty it-
self is a lottery in
which race and economic status matter more
than the crime committed. Some have cited
Mumia’s case as one that liberals have cho-
sen to rally around in order to achieve their
ownends. Why do people need acase to rally
around? Is it not because of the very social
conditions that incite us to action? And isn’t
the end in sight, that of social justice and the
promotion of human rights, an end that justi-
fies many of the emotional reactions we see
from Mumia’s supporters?

It is difficult to see what end Mr. Flynn had
in mind, unless it was touse the “facts” to hide
the brutal realities of our society that call out
to us, demanding action.

State-sanctioned killing, police brutality,
rape, torture, racism, sexism, homophobia
...these things are real. Just ask the thousands
of prisoners of conscience who have been
freed due to Amnesty International’s letter
writing campaign.

Ask the 400 individuals in the United States
who have been released from death row after

‘being found innocent. Ask the female survi-

vors of Bosnia and Kosovo who endured
systematic rape and torture.

Amnesty International is an organization
concerned with confronting these realities
and promoting the worth and dignity of all
people. If you would like to do something
positive to benefit fellow human beings, the
Amnesty student group invites you to join us

every Sunday evening at 8:00 in the Wilson
Room.
