By ALEx MASSENGALE AND JosH CRAFT
Columnists

Throughout the presidential campaign, Al
Gore repeatedly claimed that Bush’s tax cut
proposal would only help the wealthiest 1%.
This time Gore wasn’t stretching the truth.

With his spinsters Charles Grassley and
Ari Fleischer out front, Bush has proposed a
whopping $1.6 trillion tax cut. The package
includes a repeal of the estate tax, the elimi-
nation of the marriage penalty, and a dou-
bling of the per child credit.

In order to generate enthusiasm for the tax
cut, Bush gathered a crowd of “average work-
ing families” and demonstrated how these
families would benefit from his proposed
plan. According to him, these families would
pay $1600 fewer in taxes annually. Appar-
ently Bush thought that the average family
owned six BMWs and a summer home in
Kennybunkport.

According to the Institute on Taxation and
Economic Policy, “the bottom sixty percent
of taxpayers, earning less than $39,300 would
get an average $227 tax cut, while the richest
1%-making $319,000 or more-would get an

average $46,072.”
So the “average working family” receives
well below the $1600 he claimed his plan

“would give them. Interestingly enough, Rep.

Bernie Sanders (I-VT) reports: “Families in
the 81st to 95th percentiles get an average cut
of $1,447 under Bush’s [plan].” So only
those in the top five percentage qualify as
“average working families.”

Now that the “fuzzy math” has been cleared
out of the way, it is obvious that Bush’s tax
cut is extremely regressive. Working fami-
lies that earn less than $25,000 pay little in
income tax.

Isaac Shapiro, of the Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities, states that “12 million fami-
lies, both the poor and just above the poverty
line, are left out entirely.” The taxes that hurt
the poorest Americans most are Social Secu-
rity and Medicare pay roll taxes, which, not
surprisingly, are left out of Bush’s plan.

Addressing injustices and inequalities ap-
parently is not included in the realm of “com-
passionate conservatism.”

The problems with Bush’s tax cut do not
stop here. The sheer size is also worrisome.
Bush’s tax plan relies upon the estimates of

Instability, a case study:
international perspectives

By Ricarpo ApuDIA
Columnist

Recently described as the most biodiverse
country, Ecuador is the top banana producer
in the world and is also among the top five
producers of cacao, shrimp, and African palm.

It was a member of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) un-
til the early 1990’s.

Today, some of the world’s finest quality
oil is taken from its rain forest. The seed that

provides essence to Colombian coffee is.

grown in this extraordinarily fertile land, yet
its annual GDP per capita accounts to no
more than $800.

QUITO, Ecuador- Police are investigating

the nation billions of dollars. ;

Noboa’s declaration, although it was a
premature one, had the best interests of the
country in mind.

However, the antipathy from the Ecuador-
ian citizens in response to the decisions made
by the government is somewhat understand-
able. The Ecuadorian government, like many
other Latin American governments, has a
reputation of being incompetent and corrupt;
there is little trust in governmental regulation
policies.

The public already assumes that excess
revenue from taxes and fuel subsidies goes
directly to its officials’ pockets, rather than
being used to promote social well being.

Ecuador is desperately seeking reliable,

an explosion in political
the doorway of a guidance.
National bank in From
the northern From 1996 to the year 2000, Ecuador 1996 to
ee district has witnessed eight presidents, each of oan Jee
of the country’s c-
capital. which has been prematurely outsed uador has

The Police be- by his sucessor. witnessed
li \c ihe itl lo iy 2m © eh
haye been affili- \ ‘ presi-

ated with the nation-wide social protests tak-
ing place after President Gustavo Noboa’s
declaration of a state of emergency through-
out Ecuador.

This attempt was followed by frequent
demonstrations in the streets of the capital,
which included the blocking of several city’s
main transportation arteries, and even the
attempted seizure of a shopping center in
northern Quito.

dents, each of which has been prematurely

ousted by his successor.

Of these varying administrations, one con-

sisted of three presidents, and only two of
_ those three had an education that surpassed
_the secondary level.

In concordance with the political instabil-
ity of the government, this administration,
like many others, came to office through
popular riot; they belonged to a group of

What could 5,000 Ecua-
have caused dorians that
such social February Sth has become a national fame V0 pio-
upheaval? ‘ : : : est the cur-

eT h ¢ holidayinwhichEcuadorianscan protest sent adminis-
cause results their dissatisfaction withthe government. tration, en-

-from the at ee SPs tered the ex-
PONCIDIICD Sas ennai aoacaaaaen eoutive Dal:

removal of

fuel subsidies and increased public transpor-
tation fares. It was in anticipation of the
country’s uproar that President Gustavo
Noboa declared a national state of emer-
gency.

In Ecuador it has become a tradition to
protest any governmental manipulations. of
economic regulations. ‘Such protests gener-
ally paralyze all activity nation-wide, costing

ace, and over- _

threw the current Harvard educated, presi-
dent, Mahuad.

Due to the increasing instability both po-
litically and economically, February Sth has
become a national holiday in which Ecuador-

. jans can protest their dissatisfaction with the

government. |

Perhaps the people of Ecuador hold the

solution? That seems rather unlikely.

the Congressional Budget Office.

The CBO estimates that budget surpluses

over the next ten years will amount to $5.6 .

trillion. However, economist Robert
Reischauer from the Urban Institute writes,
“an  wunex-
pected slow-

impair the ability of charities to provide op-
portunities to the needy and fund worthwhile
projects, such as education and research
grants. These

down in the
growth of pro-
ductivity
combined
with asurge in
Medicare and
Medicaid
costs could easily transform surpluses _pro-
jected five to ten years out into deficits.”

This scenario seems increasingly likely in
consideration of the cooling economy.
“Therefore, it [Bush’s tax cut] not only threat-
ens to take America back down the drain to
debt, to deficits, to higher interest rates and
higher unemployment, but threatens to make
impossible the kinds of measured invest-
ments we need to make in our people’s fu-
ture,” says Senator Joe Lieberman (D-CT).

Bush’s proposed repeal of the estate tax,
also referred to as the “death tax”, is rarely
discussed in the press. This provision serves
solely to benefit the wealthy, and almost
entirely at the expense of charities.

Only those families with estates of
$650,000, and normally more than $1 mil-
lion, pay this tax. Eliminating the estate tax

of Bush’s plan.

The taxes that hurt the poor Americans the
mosta are Social Security and Medicare pay
roll tazes, which, not SUrpHsingly, are left out

charities ben-
efit the vast
majority of the
American
public, while
repealing the
estate tax
helps only a select few.

Bush is trying hard to persuade the Ameri-
can public to believe that his tax cut puts the -
money “back into the hands of the people.”
He would be correct—if the majority of the
people were extremely wealthy.

The remainder of the population, on the
other hand, receive a measly couple hundred
dollars and not the $1600 Bush promises.
Don’t be fooled. Tom Daschle hit the mark
when he said “We’ve already tried what
President Bush is proposing. We did that in
1981. The rich got richer. The poor got
poorer. And working families got stuck with
the entire bill..”

Hopefully the Democrats will have the
courage to oppose Bush’s tax and keep their
promises to working families.

SGA is now searching for a new
Chancellor (Secretary)
and Treasurer for this year.
These are paid positions and interviews will |
take place next Friday, Saturday and
_ Sunday (February 23, 24, 25).

If you are interested and want to sign up for an inter-
view or if soe want more npormaions about shat these
- - positions ae,

Openings for paid SGA positions:

