guests from 6- 40pm

Fraternities - Sororities - Clubs - Student Groups

Student Groups earn $1,000 - $2,000 this semester with the easy Campusfinder.com three hour
fundraising event.
No sales required.
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call today!
Contact Campusfinder.com
at (888) 923-3238,
or visit www.campusfinder.com

THE

OPTICALSHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

SERVING LAKE NORMAN SINCE 1989

ED STUKBAUER, FORMERLY OF FOUNTAIN OPTICAL
CONTINUING OUR POLICY OF OFFERING DAVIDSON STUDENTS, FACULTY & EMPLOYEES A

By Witt Parker
Special Contributor

After weeks of touting its ambitious “Plan
for the Year,” the Honor Council has as-
sembled the leadership team that will put the
plan into action. Five Council members—
three juniors and two sophomores— will
chair the Council’s newly established com-
mittees, four of which are part of the recently
chartered student organization “Committee
to Promote the Honor Code.”

Phil Reed ’02 will chair the Outreach Com-
mittee. Likely to be the largest committee, the
Outreach group will conduct sessions for
groups that aim to increase understanding
and spur discussion of Davidson’s Honor
Code.

Heading up the Rededication Day Com-
mittee is Jeffrey Cone ’02. The Rededication
Day team will sponsor a day each semester to
focus campus attention on Honor Code mat-
ters, scrutinizing day-to-day expressions of
the Honor Code and ‘bigger-picture’ issues

Committee Chairs

Erin Bailey ’02 will lead the Public Rela-
tions committee. Charged with developing a
website and coordinating student media rela-
tions, the PR group will develop ways to
enhance the Honor Council’s relationships
with its various constituencies.

Ian Willoughby °03 will head up the Pub-
lications Committee, which will develop all
Council publications. Focusing on specific
guides for faculty, staff, students and pro-
spective students will be the committee’s top
priority, but it will also serve as a resource to
the Council’s other committees.

Finally, Rebecca Rigel ’03 will serve as
chair for the Council’s Internal Operations
group. This committee will provide adminis-
trative support to the Council’s normal work-
ings, including coordinating training, recog-
nition and resources for Council members.

Students, faculty or staff interested in par-
ticipating with one of the Council’s promo-
tional committees should contact Public Re-
lations chiar Erin’ Bailey at
erbailey @ davidson.edu.

alike.

THE STUDENT Bopy

ANONYMOUS

Weed... what a subject to write about. I’m going to be totally honest and tell everyone
here at Davidson College that speaking “in terms of morals”, getting drunk down at
Patterson Court or in your rooms is just as “bad” as smoking a joint. Treally don’t think
there’s anything wrong in taking a few hits to relax every once in. awhile. Now that’s
my opinion. I know there are many of you out there that disagree, and that’s fine too.
We have something called a legal system here to back you up.

Having all that out on the floor, I want to write this article to the smokers. Notjust those
who smoke every once in awhile, but especially to those who smoke daily. [know many
of you will read this and just blow it off. But then I know there are many of you who do.
smoke, but want to quit. Weed, just like any other substance can be very addictive! And
just like any other addiction, you really can’t fully depend on yourself if you can’t resist
the temptation to get high. I started realizing this fact about four months ago. Although
I was forced to quit, looking in hindsight, I’m glad I was. Little things in my life and
routine have changed which allow me to concentrate on more important factors of my
life. For example, one thing I’m really glad I don’t have to worry about anymore is the
risk of getting caught. I know this is the biggest fear for anyone who smokes weed. The
hassles of opening up that window and sticking a towel under the door before you smoke
a joint or hit a pipe, and then having to worry about whether someone on your hall will
smell the smoke and report you to Campus Police. Is it really worth it to jeopardize a
promising future for something so petty? I don’t think so.

If legal authority doesn’t make you want to quit, then why not quit for yourself? When
I smoked, I thought I could study while I was high. I thought that smoking weed made
me think better, analyzing and thinking every little detail over and over again. NOT true.
It took more time to figure out the same amount of information when I was high than —
when I’m sober. And after about 5 minutes, I forgot half the stuff I was studying. Being
sober, I comprehend and remember much more information. Smoking weed doesn’t
make you any smarter, and trading your mind and your memory for a high justisn’t worth
it.

My diet has also improved. Any person who smokes is no stranger to the munchies.
And you may not think your diet is a big thing, but when you do quit smoking, you realize
how much better you feel physically. i! reduced those late night meals and —

‘Finally, something else 1 notice about. ‘myself i is my change in al
ns lg pies a ie

