5

ele
“Boy” suffers

Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

Rebecca Gilman’s “Boy Gets Girl” made
its regional premiere at Davidson last week.
After successful runs in Chicago and New
York, the School’s production of the play
followed the precedence of its predecessors
and sold out the Black Box Performance
Space. Following the first two performances
of the production, the director and various
members of the faculty lead a discussion on
“issues [‘Boy Gets Girl’ ] raised on the threat
of violence and questions of safety for con-
temporary women” (from the press release).
And indeed, “Boy Gets Girl” is discussion
worthy.

But my interest in the play has little to do
with “questions of safety for contemporary
women.” In fact, it has nothing to do with the
Davidson production. My qualms and ques-
tions are not with the Davidsonians involved;
I only can offer them the highest praise.
Rather, I take issue with Gilman’ s play, merely
the words that form a play. Please keep in
mind this distinction between production and
the play itself.

Two words: “die whore.” That lovely
phrase, “die whore;” signifies “Boy Gets
Girl”’s permanent departure from Caution-
ary-Taleville for the big city of Fairytale-
opolis.- Its characters are. stock: the ditzy
secretary; the wise old man; emotionally
scarred, successful women with troubled
pasts. As for its story, it involves a stalker
whose actions are of the most extreme nature.
He'stalks and harasses as much as one can and
still be considered only a stalker. It’s all very
inflated.

The involvement of the phrase “die
whore’’) is past the play’s halfway point, and
before then, Gilman’s text flirts with exag-
geration and legitimate, honest observations
— or maybe generalizations — of contempo-
rary American men and women. For ex-
ample, audiences will remember with a smile
the calendar marked by a monthly. The men
who discover this calendar are baffled, and
dismiss their puzzlement. And then one
character’ s mental light bulb illuminates: her
period. The two men jump up, avoiding the
calendar as if it were a powder-filled envelop.

So here we have a funny, affectionate gen-
eralization of the American man: his igno-
rance of and disgust with the menstrual cycle.
And there are a few more of these observa-
tions sprinkled throughout. Another example:
men’s widely shared love of gigantic breasts.
(I don’t place the adjective “heterosexual” in
front of “men’s” because at one stage, the
stage at which we suckle profusely, all men —
or to be more correct, all men and women —
loved, and perhaps depended on, gargantuan
mammary glands.)

But back to my reservations. In my pre-
view article of the production, I wrote the
following: “It’s interesting that Gilman’s
work...has been described as theatrical, el-
evated Lifetime Television. Lawrence
Frascella says, ‘This harrowing story of a
stalker is far richer than the stuff you get ad
’ nauseam on Lifetime.’” Having seen the
play, I’ll stand by my words. Actually, it is
very interesting that “Boy Gets Girl” can be
described as elevated Lifetime Television:
very interesting because I now realize that “is
_ farricher than the stuff you get ad nauseam on
Lifetime” should be read as “contains lan-
guage that Lifetime Television will not air.”
I agree with Mr. Frascella if by “far richer,”
he means “more explicit.”

Indeed, I believe Rebecca Gilman’s play
exists on the same, exaggerated level of art-
istry, didacticism, and narrative as Lifetime’s

from script

very best movies. “Die whore,” then, is
Gilman’s way of declaring her play aresident
of Fairytale-opolis. To explain, I’ll continue
with Ben Teresa’s dating show theme of last
week’s Davidsonian. A writing episode of
MTV’s Dismissed would feature Ms. Gilman
and two single techniques, Mr. Exaggerated-
Hit- You-Over-The-Head Tale and Mr. Truth-
ful-Observed-Subtle-Human Story. And in-
stead of metaphorically dismissing Mr. Truth-
ful-Observed-Subtle, Ms. Gilman simply
would write the phrase “die whore” into her
play, revealing Mr. Exaggerated the winner:
Mr. Exaggerated gets girl, if you will.

But who is to say that subtlety is favorable
to exaggeration? Indeed, exaggeration arid
blatancy are surefire methods of clarifying a
message or idea. We all remember the tale of
“The Boy Who Cried Wolf.” The slow,
gruesome, painful murder of those poor, cute,
fluffy, unfortunate sheep carried a clear mes-
sage to all of us in our childhood. Seriously
confronted with this fable now, we would
most certainly laugh. There’s something
innately childish and absurd in exaggeration,
of course except when exaggeration is satire.
And there are times when “Boy Gets Girl” is
only a few knives and threatening letters
away from satire.

Of course, though, no one laughs at “Boy
Gets Girl;” we do, however, laugh with Gilman
a few times (i.e. the period calendar). The
point here is that “Boy Gets Girl” exists on
the Lifetime side of exaggeration-subtly con-
tinuum. It’s placement, though, is just slightly
off-center, making it easy for Lifetime lovers
and others like Mr. Frascella to triumphant its
cautionary values relevant to women today.
Make no mistake: I am not questioning the
legitimacy of issues raised by the play, issues
of stalking and threats. And I must confess
that I have never seen a Lifetime movie, so I
cannot fairly poke fun. I feel justified, how-
ever, in using the channel as comparison
because of its accepted connotations of over-
statement, embellishment, and preachment.
And it is with these words that I associate
“Boy Gets Girl.”

Despite its good reception, I feel “Boy Gets
Girl” would have been more effective had it
been toned downabit. TakeAmerican Beauty,
for example, and compare it with The Ice
Storm. I realize I hold the minority opinion,
but I believe The Ice Storm betters American
Beauty simply because its characters and
situations are grounded in reality, whereas
American Beauty could be described as
fairytale based on The Ice Storm. For me, as
for many, stories nuanced with details of
everyday life and of general, universal situa-
tions (i.e. the period calendar) prevail over
their exaggerated counterparts. However,
there is something to be said of satire and
over-the-top, black humor: visit the work of
Todd Solondz (Happiness and Welcome to

_the Dollhouse) or playwright and filmmaker
* Neil LaBute.

We associate different levels of exaggera-
tion and fable with different stages in our
lives. For example, “The Boy Who Cried
Wolf” for children and “The Prom Night
Baby” for teenaged girls. The level of exag-
geration found in “Boy Gets Girl” seems
appropriate for a pubescent audience, but the
story itself belongs more to female college
students and their same-sex elders. So alas,
the flaw of “Boy Gets Girl” stems from
disparity of its audience and Gilman’s style.
I certainly haven’t heard of any pubescent
stalking victims. But maybe I am wrong.
Times a-changing. Fantasies of hijacked-
jetliners crashing into the Eiffel Tower don’t
seem so fantastical anymore.

Daveydating.com to the rescue

Press RELEASE
DaveyDating.com

It is obvious to most of the student popula-
tion at our fine school here in Davidson North
Carolina that the dating scene is far from
flourishing. In fact, just a short time ago it
was basically non-existent. I have a theory
that the dating scene was eaten by a giant
turtle.

People try; people want to learn about each
other, people want to start relationships,
people want to date. The travesty is that due

‘to our present campus culture, this is very

hard for them. People are not expected to ask
each other out on dates! I have seen guys
standing outside a girl’s door, sometimes
pacing up and down the hall, just waiting for
them to come out, so that they can simply talk
to them. These people can’t even knock on
the door! Everyone has seen something like
this. Where people are trying to spend as
much time around each other as possible,
however, they can not ask this person out!
This causes confusion as to the various inten-

) tions of the individuals involved. Maybe one

of them doesn’t want a relationship, but the
other doesn’t know. This is an undeniably sad
climate at our school. THIS SHOULD NOT
BE ALLOWED TO CONTINUE!!

Just a little while ago a magnificent thing:

happened. Some call it a miracle, some call it
“what the world was waiting for’, some call
it “a wonderful gift from above by some truly
brilliant people to whom I would like to
dedicate my life and give all my money too.”
Some people got very upset because there is

apparently some rumor going around that we
actual have the mandate of God. However, in
truth, we are a dating service, specifically for
Davidson College. We are attempting to
change the dating scene in fair Davidson.

This greatly saddening situation at our
school spawned DaveyDating.com. We want
dating to be something that is done readily on
campus (dating, yes, actual dating). Itis okay
for people to sign up with DaveyDating.com
just for fun.

Now, please brace yourself, for I am about
to give you a very small glance behind the
scenes at the now famous DaveyDating.com.
If you have heart troubles, high blood pres-
sure, are pregnant, or have a slight headache
at the time of reading this article, I advise you
to read no further.

People go to our site (a surprisingly large
amount of people), fill out three required
questions, and as many supplementary ques-
tions as they want. Each answer that they
give us helps us to match them up better.
Behind the scenes, we have a mystic ma-
chine, sometimes called a computer, which
uses, magic, our help, processing power ca-
pable of finding extraterrestrial life, and the
answers to the questions, to set people up.
We give people a basic format and loose
timeframe for their date, as well as the con-
tact information of the perfect person for
them. Thus dating history is made.

The numerous people who sign up for our
service are soldiers. They are soldiers in our
only army that is fighting to reclaim what
that turtle so horribly stole from us so long

Tomahawk show
slashes Carborro

By Justin OssMANN

ago.

Offensive Hal

By Lisa COoLLins AND LARKSPUR VAN STONE

Special Contributor

A few weeks ago, the Cat’s Cradle, a music
venue located in Carborro, North Carolina,
was home to one of the most prolific and
innovative musicians out there creating mu-
sic, and one of his numerous bands and side
projects. Tomahawk, a musical entity exist-
ing somewhere in the ether between the genres

of alternative rock, heavy metal, and ambi-

ent, is one of more than half a dozen bands
formed by Mike Patton, once vocalist of the
group Faith No More and now providing
verbal schizophrenia for the likes of Mr.
Bungle, Fantomas, and even a stint with the
Dillinger Escape Plan. The man has had his
hands deep in the creation of much good
music, and live held the respect of a king
while acting the part of a jester. Coming onto
stage wearing a cut-off tee shirt, a hairnet, and
the words “Taco Belle” written on his stom-
ach, the unsuspecting concertgoer might not
have known what to expect. But the house
was packed with many a fan of Mr. Patton,
and there was no doubt even before the show
began that this was not going to be an ordi-
nary concert. The first song, sung by Patton
through a gas mask that doubled as a micro-
phone, was everything a mosh pit could ask
for, while never delving too deeply into the
folds of metal. In all he used‘four different
microphones, as well as a slew of equipment
and devices with what purpose only he him-
self could know. Patton thrashed about the
stage, stood dark and brooding, and cackled
like an insane school boy, all the while pro-
viding bizarre soundscapes, synthesizers, and
electronic sound effects. His bombast was
downright exhausting to watch. But for just
over an hour, music of a most unique and
passionate kind was being performed in
Carborro, most definitely unlike any other in
the state that evening. -

Special Contributors

One may recognize the scenery for the
movie Shallow Hal because it was filmed in
near by Charlotte, NC. Soif you decide to see
it look for familiar landmarks.

You enter the theater thinking you are in
for aslapstick comedy. If this is what you are
looking for, Shallow Hal is not for you. Iam
not saying that there are not enjoyable mo- —
ments. In fact at some times the movie is a
knee slapper. Insteag it is filled with boarder
line offensive commentary on a subject that is
painful for many Americans, obesity. Though
it appears to be comical in actuality Shallow
Hal is correctly labeled a drama. This is an
appropriate category because this movie
battles with some serious topics.

The main character Hal, Jack Black, can be
described as a pitiful middle-aged man on the
hunt for the “perfect woman.” Hal and his
buddy, Mauricio played by Jason Alexander,
are constantly in search of beautiful woman.
Perfection for these men is solely based on
superficial beauty. They do not look beyond
the physical aspects of the girls they pursue.

Hal gets stuck in an elevator with a hypno-
tist. He does not know that his perception of
women would soon change upon being hyp-
notized. From this moment on Hal unknow-
ingly finds himself attracted to woman’s in-

~ ner beauty. It is now that he finds the woman

of his dreams, Rosemary Shanahan played by
Gwyneth Paltrow.

Outsiders are only able to see Rosemary for
her obesity. This is where the drama unfolds.
Hal has to soon come to terms with his issues
about being superficial.

The true heart of the movie lies in the issue
of defining beauty. No two people have the
same definition of beautiful.

see Shallow, page 6
