"Fun Daviteenan

WEDNESDAY,
mY: . ‘i : : Fesruary 28, 2001
Davidson opens conference season with win over Furman

Strong pitching, closing defense helps Wildcats route Paladins at home to capture first Southern Conference victory of the year

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

On a soggy Sunday at Wildcat Park, Davidson’s baseball team continued its offensive
surge, beating Furman 13-6 in the Southern Conference opener for both teams.

The doubleheader scheduled for Sunday was postponed due to rain, and Davidson finally
took the field at 3 p.m. on Sunday. The team wasted little time getting on the board.

After second baseman Jack Purcell hit a one out single to center field, leftfielder Tim Frend
drove a 2-0 offering over the right centerfield fence for atwo-run homer, his second of the year,
putting the Cats up 2-0.

Davidson came back with more in the second, with four runs on four hits through the right
side of the Paladin defense, a hit-batsman, and a wild pitch. .

Third baseman Cassidy Lundin and Frend each had RBI singles, pushing the Wildcat lead

to 6-0.

Furman starter Tom Mastny finally settled in after that, holding Davidson scoreless for the

next three innings. The
dormant Wildcat bats
came alive in the sixth
with a seven run explo-
sion that ended
Mastny’s day. He left
after giving up 10 runs,

Tim Frend connects with a Furman pitch during

- home run.

Erin Berry

this weekend’s series against the Paladins.

Wildcat baseball sets more records with fifth straight win

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

Davidson’ baseball team traveled to North
Carolina A & T’s War Memorial Stadium in
Greensboro last Wednesday trying to be-
come the first team in school history to win
five straight games to open the season.

In its first road game of the season, the
Wildcats did just that, winning 13-6 behind a
solid outing from Wes Self (2-0) and an
opportunistic offense that cranked out double-
digit runs for the fourth consecutive game.

In the opening frame, the team took advan-
tage of Aggie pitcher Eric Jones’ lack of
control as the first four batters walked, scor-
ing Ryan Stroker. After that horrendous start,
Jones was pulled for David Nelson, who
walked two more batters and gave up arunon
a Jeremiah Parvin sacrifice fly to centerfield.
After one inning, Davidson was up 4-0 with-
out a hit.

With Self taking the hill in the first game
since his no-hitter against High Point on Feb.
15, Davidson seemed to be coasting to its

‘fifth win. But the Aggies had a different

agenda. Their first batter laced a fastball ona
2-2 count to left-centerfield, disregarding any
hope of a repeat no-hitter. Self continued to
struggle with the next three batters as they
each slapped base hits. ;

Head Coach Dick Cooke said at this point
the senior ace made an adjustment.

“Their first five hitters are very good and
aggressive fastball hitters. Wes did a good
job of figuring out the best approach to attack
their hitters with,” he said.

Realizing that the Aggies were sitting on
his fastball, Self threw more breaking balls
and battled out of the jam. In all, the Aggies
plated just three that inning and Davidson
still held the lead 4-3.

As has often been the case, the Wildcats
responded immediately in the next inning.

Erin Berry

A strong outing by the Wildcat pitching staff helped the Wildcats
subdue visiting Furman this weeked in Davidson’s first conference

series of the season

eight of them earned, on 13 hits and four walks.

The big blow in the sixth came on Dylan Deal’s three-run line drive double to left centerfield. Deal had three hits on
he day with three RBI’s and three runs scored.
: Thirteen runs was plenty for sophomore starter Derrick Wolpert (2-0), who went seven strong innings for the win,
__ giving up five runs on seven hits with eight strikeouts. He pitched brilliantly the first six innings, yielding only one run.

Furman finally got to Wolpert in the seventh, though, as they put up three runs, including a two-run homer by second
baseman Adam Etherington.

Wolpert battled back and finished that inning, but was replaced by Brian Akin in the eighth after giving up a leadoff

Stroker took first when he was hit by a pitch,
and second baseman Jack Purcell followed
with a walk. Tim Frend notched the first hit
for Davidson with a single to left field, scor-
ing Stroker from second. Junior designated
hitter Billy Ryan slapped a two-run single up
the middle, putting Davidson up 7-3.

Self gave up three unearned runs scattered
over the next five innings, and was relieved in
the seventh after striking out eight with just
one walk. The Wildcats added one more in
the fifth and three more in the seventh, high-
lighted by Billy Ryan’s two-run triple down
the right field line. Ryan ended up with four
hits and five RBI.

Stroker came in from right field to put
away the last 2 2/3 innings, striking out four.
It was not a perfect game, as Davidson’ s three
errors cost them three runs.

Catcher James Marino threw out three of
the five runners that attempted to steal, even
though the Aggies had stolen 50 bases in just

Wolpert was upset at the big innings, saying he may have been too comfortable.

“T missed a few pitches and Furman’s good enough to hit the ball hard off of those mistakes,” he said. “With that big
of a lead, though, you are kind of afforded to do that.”

Good defense protected the lead. Lundin ranged both left and right at third base to stop.several potential hits.

Upset with the one play he didn’t make, Lundin said, “Derrick (Wolpert) has a great change-up, which has lots of hitters
out in front of the ball. Balls were coming my way, and I was just lucky enough to make a few plays.”

10 games previously.
Cooke was pleased once again with the
patience of his ball club.

“We did a good job of working the oppos-
ing pitcher deep into the count,” he said. “We
played smart offensively, and well enough
defensively.”

Inside...

@ Hinds Howard previews
upcoming UNCG series

Special pullout guide to
the Southern Conference
Basketball Championships

The Bottom Line _

Davidsonian
Player of the Week

JOUNI EHO

The freshman forward scored 17
points—all in the second half—to
help Davidson to a 68-65 victory

over College of Charleston at Belk
Arena on Saturday.

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL MEN’s TENNIS
Mar. 2 - @UNCGreensboro 7:00 Mar. 12 Liberty 2:00
Mar.3 @UNCGreensboro 1:00 Mar. 14 Chattanooga 2:00
Mar.4 @UNCGreensboro — 1:00
Mar.7 @Auburn 4:00 WoMEN’s TENNIS
March 12 Liberty 2:00
’_. GOLF - March 14 Chattanooga 2:00
Mar. 5-6 __ Birkdale Invitational
Mar. 11-13. Bradford Creek Invitational LACROSSE
March 5 @California 4:00
March 7 @Stanford 4:00
’ March 11. @St. Mary’s 1:00
