ae Athi é and Bigs Cos-

| Winter C Children’s Show

* Directed by Profesor Binieeitnd Rupert
Barber, Davidson College ‘students and
the Davidson Community Players will
present their annual winter children’ 8
show “The Bremen Town Musicians.”

_ Directed towards kindergarten-4th grad-
ers, the program will anne etee, Sse

pase ; are $4 General / ‘AidinlsaiOn antl
$3 Children. Friday, January 26 at 7:30
pm, Saturday, January 27 at 10:30 am
and 2:30 pm and Sunday, January 28 at
3:00 pan in the Black a Theater.

.

Run for Peace

cre ayill be held on

By Rick Bob AND BRANDT LEIBE
Special Correspondents

January 20 marked the end of the Clinton-
Gore era when Governor George W. Bush
was sworn in as the 43" President of the
United States.

Though the event was not unusual for our

country no one should underestimate the sig--
nificance of yet another peaceful transition of

power, especially in light of the post-election

_ turmoil and month-long process of recount-

ing to determine a final winner. With many
in the international community making light
of America’s electoral blundering, no other
country in the world can boast sucha peaceful
electoral history.

After the traditional prayer, delivered by
Franklin Graham on behalf of his father Billy,
and an inspiring American medley, Governor
Bush stepped to the fore with Chief Justice
William Rehnquist to take the oath of office
with the same Bible that his father used.

In his inaugural address, President Bush
spoke of many broad themes and overarching
American ideals. He began by thanking
former President Clinton for his service to the
nation and Vice President Gore for a “contest
conducted with spirit and ended with grace.”

Acknowledging history throughout, Presi-
dent Bush repeatedly spoke of himself as just
another part of a long story, “a story we
continue but whose end we do not see.” Bush
hit upon four main themes in his speech:
civility, courage, compassion, and character.

Recalling the bitter election battle, Bush
spoke of the need for a new civility in the
political dialogue to heal national wounds.

Describing the atmosphere he would like to
foster, Bush said civility “is the determined
choice of trust over cynicism, of community
over chaos. And this commitment, if we keep
it, is a way to shared accomplishment.”
Indiscussing courage, President Bush listed
some policy objectives that he hopes his
Administration will fulfill, including educa-
tion system improvements, Social Security
and Medicare reform, and tax reform. Bush
also hopes to reinvigorate a lackluster mili-
tary “and build our defenses beyond chal-
lenge, lest weakness-invite challenge.”
Emphasizing the importance of private
compassion for solving social ills, Bush re-
turned to the theme of compassionate conser-

* vatism that marked his campaign. “Church

and charity, synagogue and mosque lend our
communities their humanity, and they will
have an honored place in our plans and in our
laws,” said Bush.

Finally, he discussed character by lauding
the importance of personal responsibility and
acts of decency. “Sometimes in life we are
called to do great things. But as a saint of our
times has said, every day we are called to do
small things with great love. The most im-
portant tasks of a democracy are done by
everyone.”

Having described his vision for America,
President Bush highlighted the role of citi-
zens ahead of the role of government, pro-
claiming, “When this spirit of citizenship is
missing, no government program can replace
it. When this spirit is present, no wrong can
stand against it.”

After the speech, many of the shivering
onlookers made their way to the parade route

*‘umeler the

wy

‘he Campas

OLYMPICS
Four students,
several alcoholic beverages—and
often entertaining atte: pis
to function
inf_luence."

Thursday, January 25, 4:00 p.m.

Morrison Room
Grey College Union
Spemseredt by

Pelice Department
and the Mealth Canter

ee

Police blotter will return next week.

_ that elected a president.

to wait for President Bush and Vice President
Cheney to drive past. At places protestors
had to be subdued by local authorities. How-
ever, the inaugural ceremony and the major-
ity of the parade route were free from any sort
of organized protesting.

e,

Davidson alum
Duncan offers
commentary on
Florida fiasco

By JAMIE McNasBsB
Staff Writer

Florida had a rough year in 2000. There
was Elian Gonzalez. FSU lost to Oklahoma.
The winter was freezing. And to top it all off,
a mess larger than Disney World: the 2000
election. Hoping to untangle the veil of
kudzu on this mysterious election, students
gathered in the 900 room on January 23" to
hear Philip Duncan ’79 speak.

Duncan is the director of the National Con-
ference on Citizenship and former editor of
The Congressional Quarterly. Fliers announc-
ing his arrival read: “How the extraordinary
events in Florida will influence governance
in Washington and the public’s attitude to-
ward participation in politics.” In actuality,
the answers provided to these two questions
might be what George W. would call ‘fuzzy’
with not much to pin down. Duncan said that
we the people will decide our own attitude
toward participation, and that governance in
Washington depends on the ability of law-
makers to compromise. Duncan did find a
valuable lesson amidst all of the confusion
that the election has left our nation with
though.

According to Duncan, “The Age of the
Offered Hand,” a call by former President
Bush to bipartisanship in his inaugural ad-
dress, became instead “The Age of the Roll-
ing Heads” in the nineties. The decade of-
fered divisiveness and what many now call
character assassination. The election in
Florida was a crescendo of these times. It was
a heavyweight title fight, divided sharply
along party lines, with the fight promoters
Warren Christopher.and James Baker pro-
tecting their fighters. Democrats and Repub-
licans pointed fingers and called names. The
lesson Duncan found within this mess was a
need to revitalize citizen involvement in gov-
ernment and local communities

Duncan explained that polling shows
Americans want to leave partisanship behind
in politics. In order to do so, and to try and
prevent the events-such as those in Florida,
Americans “need more sophisticated national
discourse.” The conversation must come
from interested and informed citizens: He
quoted Theodore Roosevelt as saying, “The
first requisite of a good citizen of this Repub-
lic of course is that he shall be able and
willing to pull his weight.” Dr, Susan Rob-
erts, of the Political Science Department,
explained that Duncan “wants us to take the
lead” for improvement of our nation. The
message was that through a more active citi-
zenry, the public can affect the institutions of
government in a way that creates more sale
institutions.

The full effects of the election in Florida
are still revealing themselves. Duncan pointed
out that only personal action will improve the
public’s dissatisfaction with federal and local
government. The defining legacy of the

- Florida election may be the importance that it

gave to individuals. It was just one citizen
that designed the infamous butterfly ballot,
and a difference of just a few hundred votes
