Faculty unveils new exhibition of work at VAC

By Erin RAFFETY
Staff Writer

On Wednesday night, August 29, 2001, a
reception was held in the Van Every Gallery
in the Visual Arts Center, 315 North Main
St., for faculty artists Herb Jackson, Cort
Savage, and Russ Warren in honor of their
exhibition that went on display that evening.
The exhibition, which highlights three new
Jackson paintings, Savage’s sculptural mas-
terpieces, and Warren’ s brightly painted can-
vases, will continue through October 10,
with gallery hours weekdays 10 a.m. to 5
p.m. and weekends 12 to 4 p.m. The VAC
also welcomed the paintings of Susan
Brenner, entitled Dissections, which will be
on display in the Edward M. Smith Gallery
until October 10" as well.

At the entrance of the Van Every Gallery
are the paintings of Russ Warren, an interna-
tionally known painter whose works have
been included in exhibitions at the Whitney
Museum of American Art (NY), Corcoran
Gallery of Art (DC), and the
Venice Biennale. Warren, who
lives on a small farm, says he is
heavily influenced by his envi-
ronment; dogs, horses, and other
animals frequently appear in his
artwork. His collection is bold
and warm, a reflection of an
earthy palette and paints that
contain cadmium, a chemical
he favors because of its inten-
-sity. Many of his works are
dotted with paint actually
squeezed from the tube, while
in other areas aggressive, thick
brush strokes traverse the can-
vas. The paintings are large in
size; each takes the artist at least
a year, but he works on several
at once. “They’re in different stagés of
completion,” Warren says. “I like to be as
spontaneous as possible.” The paintings Ev-
eryone Could Use a Little Miracle and Still
Life with Sweet Potatoes are similar in struc-
ture. Warren painted these as part of a larger
series of about twelve paintings. He was
inspired by the “funkiness” of South Carolin-
ian vegetable signs he saw while driving the
back roads with his family. He used ideas

A tribute to

By CurisTINA HIGH
Staff Writer

Right after take-off, your plane starts to
lose control and you find yourself hurtling
down to the ground, only to crash in a fatal
accident. These were the last minutes of life
for Aaliyah and the other eight members of

the Blackhawk International Airways flight.

that was en route from Marsh Harbour, Baha-
mas to Opa-Locka, FL on August 25, 2001.
Born January 16, 1979, in Brooklyn, New
York, Aaliyah Haughton was a blessing to
her parents Barry Hankerson and Diane
Haughton. A consistent desire to entertain
surfaced early in Aaliyah’s (means highest,
most exalted one in Swahili) life. At age nine
she started auditioning for commercials, tele-
vision shows, and recording agencies. She
even performed a five-night stint with her
aunt, Gladys Knight, in Las Vegas. She was
only eleven years old. Her father later be-
came her manager and introduced Aaliyah to

from these signs to create some of his own
“Southern slogans and proverbs.” I Dream
of Altamira refers to Warren’s interest in the
cave paintings of the Magdalenian people in
Northern Spain. The paintings, done be-
tween 16,000 and 9,000 B.C. focus on Bison
and are well preserved despite their age.
Warren wants to go see them, but all visitors
to “the cathedral” must have written permis-
sion. While he has secured visitation permis-
sion for 2003, for now Russ Warren “can
only dream of Altamira.” Other works by
Warren on display are Red Mare,(with Dogs
by Diedre Posen) and Mare: A Work in
Progress #12. —

In asmall room to the left are the paintings
of Herb Jackson, a member of the Davidson
College community for thirty-three years
and a painter whose works have appeared in
over eighty museum collections. Wings
Above the Storm, an acrylic on canvas, was
apainting for Jackson’s late mother, Virginia
Rogers Jackson. Herb remembers how
Virginia’s mother used to tell her, “Virginia,

Professors Warren, Savage, and Jackson

you’ ll get your wings in Heaven.” Though he
can’t verify this, Jackson has created his own
sky for his mother to soar in and a pair of
wings with which to fly: a wash of grays,
blues, and brights. Jackson, who brushes on
more: than 100 layers of paint before he
resolves a work, cites intuition as the biggest
influence in his paintings. The work’s gritty,
grainy surfaces, not unlike drywall and its
composition, is interrupted by sparks of pas-

tels and boldness. Each tiny area of his
painting is much like its own moment, a peak

Untitled Cort Savage

at a smaller story within a great wide world of
contrast. The paints appear thrown onto the
canvas, impulsively yet meditatively. Jack-
son states that it can take him up to eight hours
to apply one color, but the “nonverbal space”
is a way into what each painting might really
be about. However, as he humbly says,
“Your reaction to them would be more im-
portant than anything I have to say.” Other
works on display by Jackson include Out of
the Silence and Meeting in the Air.

Cort Savage, like Jackson, is also more
interested in other’s reactions to his work
than attempting to explain his own art. “What
I’m interested in more and more in art is not
the stuff I can explain,” says.the sculptor.
This becomes obvious when visitors are ac-
costed by his looming untitled masterpiece
that claims center stage in the gallery. Sav-
age, whose mixed-media sculptures are ex-
hibited nationally, explains that the grid of
slides has been mixed at random; “I’m inter-
ested in the random juxtapositions,” he says,
“they’re notchronological.” The piece, which
took about six months to create, is composed
of panels of lantern slides Savage first began
working with in 1992. The grid is a set of
historically significant architecture that has
the appearance of a catalog; “the appearance
of logic and reason”.. While Savage knows
the coils and the ball moving in the center of
the structure serve as different metaphorical

WEDNEsDay,
SEPTEMBER 5, 2001

references for everyone, he feels the chal-
- lenge for all viewers is to make sense of both.
“You can’t,” says Savage,
“you can’t finalize it—that
makes it powerful.” Double
Blind is a stationary pair of
bamboo roots cast in bronze.
These experimentations
balance Savage’s other ki-
netic piece, a mixed media
composition entitled Above
J.T., Below J.T. Most sim-
ply a chain lunging toward
a chair, Savage feels the
“gesture is the premise of
the piece.” This leaning
establishes a mood of
struggle, sadness, and mel-
ancholy, representative of
Savage’s interaction with
the long-time sculptural
hero, Jean Ting Luey. Savage says that “as
kinetic artists, we arrive at the work of Jean
Ting Luey.” In his piece, Savage feels he is
the chair. He’s stuck, passing through time
and by Jean Ting Luey, never quite connect-'
ing, never quite acquainting or becoming,
just floating and slipping by. Stand in the
gallery room alone and you’ll hear the roof
creaking. The eerie stark sounds are art
themselves. Next week’s exhibition cover-
age: Charlotte artist Susan Brenner’s “New
Paintings on Paper” in the Smith Gallery.

the late R&B singer Aaliyah

Aaliyah’s marriage was short-lived and scan-
dalous due Aaliyah’s
age: just fifteen years
old, she lied about her
age to the practicing
preacher who per-
formed the “secret”
ceremony. The mar-
riage was later an-
nulled.

Throughout her ca-
reer, Aaliyah showed
her self-worth and de-
sire toimprove herself,
staying in school when
she released her sec-
ond album at the be-
ginning of her senior
year in high school.
“School is a big prior-
ity to me,” said the
R&B singer. Her debut album “Age Ain’t
Nothing But a Number” went platinum and
her second, “One in a Million” was a huge

,
Late R&B artist, Aaliyah

of her death, Aaliyah was on hiatus between
acting projects. Having
justfinishing Anne Rice’s
Queen of the Damned, she
was set to play opposite
Keanu Reeves in Matrix
2. Aaliyah consistently
strove to better herself as
well as to promote inspi-
ration and self-esteem
through her: music, en-
couraging both child and
parent to appreciate her
talent.

Now the task at hand is
to say “thank you” and
“goodbye” to someone
who touched many of us
with her gifts. Aaliyah
was deservedly given a
funeral fit for a princess:
her casket was carried down in a carriage of
glass, drawn by two white horses. At the end
of the ceremony, 22 doves were released,
marking every year of her life. Since then, her

fans have said goodbye in their own ways.
Andre Charles, a local spray paint artist in
New York has painted a mural of Aaliyah,
inscribing it with her name as well as the
other eight victims of the crash. Also, acandle-
light vigil was held in front of Aaliyah’s high
school in Detroit, where thousands of fans
came to show their love, admiration, and
sorrow for the young singer and actress.

The other eight members of the crash were:

-Luis Morales, pilot (30)

-Anthony Dodd, (34), Los Angeles, CA
-Eric Foreman, (29) Hollywood, CA
-Scott Gallin, (41), Pompano Beach, Florida

-Keith Wallace, (49), Los Angeles, CA
-Gina Smith, (29) NJ

-Douglas Kratz, (28) Hollywood, CA (Vir-
gin Records representative)

-Christopher Maldonada, (32) NY

Aaliyah will be greatly missed but her
music still lives on. As a driving force in the
power of R&B she has made her mark on the
world and shall never be forgotten by her fans
and all the other lives she touched.
