By RICHARD VINSON
Editor-in-chief

One could call it a folk, form born out of
oppression. It could also pass for a spiritual
exercise that evolved into ritual. Both de-
scriptions, however, would ignore the strong
elements of craft and showmanship demon-
strated by this unique musical style.

Ladysmith Black Mambazo, the musical
ambassadors of South Africa, performed last
Tuesday, February 6, in front of a sold-out
Love Auditorium. The audience listened and
watched as the group sang .and danced to
songs about their homeland, their travels, and
the cause of peace.

The all-male troupe performed their entire
set a capella, as is characteristic of their
music. Their unique mix of voices high-
lighted the strong, open harmonies used in
their songs.

The group is extremely bass-heavy, with
single or double voices filling out the bari-
tone, tenor, and treble parts. This arrange-
ment lent a deep, rich sound to their singing
and grounded the pulsating choruses against
Joseph Shabalala’s lilting improvisation.

Asaform, Ladysmith’ s music stands some-
where between the simple melodies and cho-
ruses of folks songs and the droning, rhyth-
mic harmonies of chant. Though harmoni-
cally simple and repetitive, each song em-
ployed many rhythmic permutations.

The harmonic simplicity also lent itself to
a lot of improvisation, whether by the soloist
or by the singers themselves, who occasion-
"ally shouted, whistled, or chirped for empha-
sis.

This musical palet also served as the back-
ground for group’s spectacular dancing.
Emphatic and expressive, the men of

.RTS

Ladysmith jumped, kicked, and swayed across
the stage. Often they took turns, each seem-
ing to want to outdo the former.

Coming from a climate of political turmoil
and change, Ladysmith drew much of the
material for their songs from life in South
Africa. Both in English and in Zulu, some of
the topics included the end of the apartheid
regime, the institution of democracy, and an
ode in praise of the new parliament.

Showing their deep religious roots, two of
the songs were also in the form of prayers,
one in thanks for safe travel and one asking
for peace.

The strength and simplicity of the singing,
the expressiveness of the dance, and the grav-
ity of the texts combined to give the impres-
sion that the audience was witnessing a inti-
mate moment of deep communal signifi-
cance.

Ladysmith’s performance drew the audi-
ence into their world — but only up to acertain
point. Just as one felt included in the ritual,
they would crack a sly joke or poKe fun at the
“language barrier” separating the American
audience from their Zulu traditions. They
are, after all, still performers, and we had
come to see them.

Ladysmith’s traditional form of music is
called isicathamiya and originated in the mines
of South Africa. After a week of labor, the
workers would entertain themselves with
songs and “tip toe” dancing, so called be-
cause it was not supposed to disturb the camp
guards. Once they returned to their homes,
the form spread and grew.

Now, Ladysmith Black Mambazo tours the

globe as one of the premier African groups in
the world. After 30 albums and one Grammy
award, they still bring the same passion for
their music to the stage.

Chen plays with mesmerizing grace

By CurisTINA PIKE
Special Contributor

Last Monday, February 5, pianist Wendy
Chen performed in Hodson Hall for a packed
theater. Part of the 2000-2001 Artist Series,
Ms. Chen has
been competing
since she was 14, °
and has _ per-
formed With
many illustrious
groups such as
the Boston Pops.

After arriving
too late to get a
seat for the first
piece, I, along
with several
other latecom-
ers, listened to
the beautiful
strains of Chopin
as they filtered
through _ the
theater” s
wooden doors. It
was incredible.
All fidgeting
stopped as we
leaned in to hear
every note.

Although listening outside was a pleasant
experience, watching her play was mesmer-
izing. Looking up at her from my front row
seat, I was struck by the amount of movement
she allowed herself.

Her body flowed with each piece, feet
moving to the beat, arms gracefully drifting
over the keyboard. She seemed to dance to
the music as she played it. Her intense emo-
tion was evident on her face.

During the Allegro, her forehead was a

~ mass of wrinkled anger as she beat-down on -

the keys. In the next movement she trans-
formed into the perfect image of peace.

The emotion extended out into the audi-
ence. The fact that the Tempo di walzer

lentissimo movement of Prokofiev’s Sonata

lulled more than one head to sleep does not
insult her tal-
ent. Rather, it
is to her credit
that she could
create so
peaceful an at-
mosphere by
hitting metal
strings with
hammers.

ity of this slow
movement was
shattered by
the fiery tempo
and tremen-
dous crescen-

dos of the
Vivace. All
were held

spellbound as
her hands flew
over the key-
board. I have
never heard
anyone play so fast and so beautifully. Atany
moment it seemed her fingers would lose
control and fly into discordant harmony, but
every note was perfect.

After each piece, her graceful bowing, one
hand resting softly on the piano, seemed to be
a continuation of her playing.

The music did not stop when she took her
hands away, but lasted throughout the hearty
round of applause, the three bows, and deli-
cately faded away as she glided off stage. I

doubt that any who went could forget such a
. performance. ee ee ee ee a ae ee *

Thetranquil- .

Ladysmith Black Mambazo brings African folk to Davidson

Ladysmith Black Mambazo feels a

nizing to their traditional songs.

__ Wepnespay, Fesruary 14, 2001

Music today - great bands
get lost in the shuffle

By THomMas CULLEN
Staff Writer

I’m not claiming to be the first person to
bash today’s music. Many people do it in
many publications. I just want to add my two
cents.

For the most part, the music of 2001 is
stagnant, meaningless, and terrible. I have
not quite discovered how we let such fools
sell so many records, but I’m working on it.
Yet, there are afew bands that are staying true
to themselves and doing what they want
regardless of how popular their music is. But
I’ll get to those bands later.

First, I'll examine the boy bands: I’m not
going to boldface lie. Some of their music is
catchy and fun, but the time when I get really
angry is when I see interviews with these
people.

They always claim that their newest record
is “harder” or “more mature.” These state-
ments are blatantly false. The beats and top-
ics that were on their first albums are still
there and will continue to be there until they
vanish into oblivion and resurface overweight
and addicted to heroin on Behind the Music.

Rap-rock is a complete curse. Not only do
[have to listen to Fred Durst rant about how
sweet his new ride is, but his lyrics are also
accompanied by the painful slapping of in-

struments that his band calls music. Itis really
a sad spectacle to behold. Just like anyone
else who tries for long enough, the rap-rock
bands occasionally produce a decent song,
but for the most part, I question what they are
doing.

With all the musical drivel floating around,
bands that produce noteworthy music get
forgotten. Pearl Jam ruled the music scene as
grunge kings, but they still put out quality
albums. Granted, their last album, Binaural,
was a little different, but it is still a lot better
than many albums that rule today’s charts.
They still sell out major venues, and they still
do what they want to do.

Another band that gets lost is the Foo
Fighters. They first received notice when
people found out that Dave Grohl fronted the
band. Then, they went on to release three
sweet albums. Many critics talk about how
great they are, and I just want to encourage
people to check them out. ; .

I’m not here to say that everything out

today is horrible. I just want to make it clear

that there are bands that are great and will
continue to be great. Yet, they get lost in the
shuffle of information about how the latest
boy band is “different” and what cheesy pop-
culture couple is about to break up. Honestly,
who cares? Seriously, there are bands that are
worthy of praise today; don’t forget them.

