Senior captains serve it up one last time on

By Whitney Boykin
Staff Writer

Three senior captains of the men’s tennis
team, Whit Hansen, Billy Boykin, and Chad
Phillips, wrapped up their Davidson: careers
on Senior Day Tuesday against Charlotte.

Whit Hansen, the team’s No. 1 player from
Hilton Head, S.C., plans on moving to Holly-
wood after graduation and possibly trying his
hand in the film industry.

A tennis player since he was a young child,
Hansen has occupied one of the top six posi-
tions on the team since his freshman year.

His career has been filled with frequent
point penalties for swearing. He is one of the

\MPQUA TY TENNIS CHTER
ROSEBURG, OREGON
Oth Annual Championships

. Erin Berry
Billy Boykin

leaders in the NCAA in this category. He uses
his loud manner of playing to pump up him-
self, his team, and to “get into his opponents
head, and mess it up.” His playing style has
earned him the nickname “Nasty.” Team-
mates say Hansen reminds them of his play-
ing idol, John McEnroe.

Teammate Chad Phillips said he “enjoys
playing next to Whit because I can feed off
his energy and play better”. -

Senior captain Billy Boykin is a local boy
from the town of Davidson. He enjoys living
close to home because his family can watch
his matches. Boykin has been playing tennis
for so long that he could not even pinpoint the
starting date, and during his junior year he

was ranked No. | in North Carolina for a
time.

Boykin is noted for his amicable personal-
ity and blinding speed. A UNC Asheville
opponent said after losing to Boykin that he
has “never been. beaten by a nicer guy.”

Boykin could not recall ever having a most
embarrassing moment on the court, but
Hansen recalled the time Boykin threw his
racket into the net at the prestigious Rolex
Tournament.

The team’s third captain is senior Chad
Phillips, a native of Mandeville, Louisiana.
Phillips is known to his teammates as
“Dewey,” a nickname he got because of an
alleged resemblance to a sheriffs deputy in

MEN’sS TENNIS CLAsS OF 2001

Erin Berry

Chad Phillips

Erin Berry

Whit Hansen

the movie Scream. Cee

Phillips did not earn a canine ook in the
line-up until his junior season, when he played
at No. 6. This year, he’s at No. 4.

Phillips has one of the most feared fore-
hands in the conference. His net game has
also become a strong weapon.

Off the court, Phillips has been a leader at _
Davidson, serving as president of the Patterson
Court Council, which supervises the school’s
fraternities and eating houses.

After Davidson, Chad hopes to work for
Bank of America in Charlotte.

Men’s tennis team member Matt Peters
contributed to this article.

. Erin Berry
Blair Easton

Knobloch Campus Center will offer more workout options

3,200-square foot fitness center will combine strength, weight, and cardiovascular training

By ZeB KELLEY
Staff Writer

~Along with many other long-awaited
amenities, the Nisbit Fitness Center will soon
open its doors when the Knobloch Campus
Center is completed next month.

Although many expected a new weight -

room, the center was designed to be appeal-
" ing to all students, not just athletes.

Mike Goode, responsible for the creation
and design of Nisbit, said the center is prima-
rily for “fitness as opposed to athletic” train-
ing.

It will occupy 3,200 square feet on the
second floor of Knobloch, on what used to be
the floor of Johnston Gym. A glass wall on
one side will offer a view of the two-story
climbing wall built for Davidson Outdoors.

The center will contain many windows,
providing natural light. In addition, the
ductwork will be exposed, leaving more room
above.

It will be divided into two main areas:
strength and cardiovascular training. The
strength training area will contain 20 pieces
of Cybex equipment. Many of the pieces will
be familiar from the top level of Baker Sports
Complex, similar to the current Nautilus
machines. The cardiovascular section of the
center will include an array of devices, in-
cluding five treadmills, three elliptical train-

ers, two stair-steppers, tworowing machines, -

two upright and three recumbent bicycles,
and a dumbbell rack.

There will also be anew step-mill machine
holding a revolving staircase. Goode says it
can be used by D.O. for hiking preparation.

The center will also contain five televi-
sions and a stereo system. The TVs will be
equipped with FM radio, allowing students to
watch TV and listen with their personal ra-
dios. A towel service and a student-run desk

' faculty to workout

‘says the planners

will also be provided.

Rubber flooring will absorb sweat and quiet
the noise level. There will be locker rooms
with 20 lockers each and full shower. facili-
ties.

The center will be open at more flexible
hours than Baker, and Goode hopes to be able
to “take advantage of card- reader system” to
allow for late night

on the design and contents of the center.
Students also tested the equipment.

Senior Jeff Bender, a student advisor and
member of the wrestling team, said he worked
out on equipment at area gyms,

“We physically tried them out,” he said. “I
went to my local gym and other people went
to the YMCA.”

workouts.

Goode says that
there may also be a
“buddy system” for
allowing students and

during off-hours. —
The center will not
be run by fitness ex-
perts like that of
Baker’s weight room,
but Goode says it
would be nice to get
“students with expe-
rience” to work the
desk. Due to the lack
of supervision, Goode

“stayed away from
plate-loaded equip-
ment.”
Goode planned out
the center extensively.
“T contacted lots of
campus centers
around the country of
colleges like David-
son,” including
Furman, Rhodes and
Wake Forest, he said.
A committee of
three student athletes,
and three faculty
members gave advice

“We tried to structure it ina socially friendly
way,” he said, adding that it is appealing even

“if you don’t lift a lot of weights,” or wantto ™

use it “for a study break.”
“This is a student union,” he said, “Not a
student-athlete union.”

Randy Skattum/ davidso

= :
page

Fina. Staces. The $30 million renovidien of Johnston Gym, which includes the
contruction of a state-of-the art performance hall, completely reconfigured an old gym
into the Knobloch Campus Center, a place officials hope will become a bustling center.
of student activity. Knobloch will include an enlarged fitness center for aerobic :
workouts and strength training. .
