get rec
‘THE DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
January 31, 2001 -

AD Murphy impressed by coach’s experience
at academic schools

By Matt GarFIELD
Sports Editor

Less than a week after Joe Susan was hired
at Rutgers as its offensive line coach, David-
son Athletics Director Jim Murphy intro-
duced Mike Toop as Davidson’s 25" football
coach at a press conference on Dec. 18.

Murphy selected Susan over Toop last
April when seven-year coach Tim Landis
left for St. Mary’s (Calif.). When the position
came open again in December, Murphy
wasted little time in hiring Toop.

Unlike with Landis and Susan, however,
the school signed Toop to a multi-year con-
tract that Murphy said “lends itself to lon-
gevity.”

Toop’s experience at academic-minded
schools such as Davidson, and his mentors,
which include Indianapolis Colts general
manager Bill Polian were the two qualities
that most appealed to Murphy.

Polian coached Toop at the U.S. Merchant
Marine Academy from: 1972 to 1976, and
gave him a strong recommendation for the
Davidson job.

“Coach Toop has a history of working at
very strong academic institutions,” said
Murphy on Saturday. “(He) is a very strong
football person.”

To bring stability to a coaching staff that

has been in constant upheaval for the last three
seasons, Toop will retain all of last year’s
assistant coaches. The only exception is Carter
Westfall, who followed Susan to Rutgers.

For the past two seasons, Toop served as the
defensive coordinator for the University. of
Connecticut. The Huskies played on the Div.
I level last season.

Toop was the defensive coordinator and
linebacker coach at the University of Penn-
sylvania for seven seasons (1992-1998). Penn
won three Ivy League Championships and set
an NCAA I-AA record for consecutive wins
with 24 during his tenure.

While at Penn, Toop was named the 1995
American Football Quarterly Magazine Na-
tional Division I-AA Defensive Coordinator
of the Year.

For four seasons at the U.S. Merchant Ma-
rine Academy, Toop started at middle line-
backer, guiding the Mariners to a school-
record nine wins in his senior year in 1976, He
was also named the team’s Most Valuable
Player, along with All-Conference, All-East
and Honorable Mention All-America honors.

Toop is anative of East Northport, N.Y. He
and his wife, Diana, have two children, Marcus
(14) and Jaclyn.(10).

Sports Information contributed to this ar-
ticle.

(14), Jaclyn (10) » ;

. chant Marine Academy in 1977 and earned a

THe Mixe Toop Fite

Age: 46
- Family: wife Diana; two children, Marcus

Education: Graduated from the US Mer-

Master's Degree from the State University of
New York at Albany in 1984.

Favorite coaching job: Coached on
father’s staff at Chaminade High in 1977
when it won the Catholic Football League
City Championship.

- Accessories: Ivy League Championship
ring from Penn’s two undefeated seasons in
1993-94 oe

rogram

Erin Berry

Mike Toop was introduced as Davidson’s head football coach on
Dec. 18. He inherits a team with 17 straight wins.

Toop no stranger to win streaks

By MatTT GARFIELD

Sports Editor

The first thing you notice when talking to
new Davidson football coach Mike Toop—
besides his bald head, thick mustache and
heavy New England accent— isa shiny piece
of hardware on his left hand.

It is a silver ring containing a red stone in
the middle and an inscription that reads “Un-
defeated Back to Back 21-0.”

He earned the ring as defensive coordinator
at Pennsylvania University, where for two
seasons in 1994 and 1995, his team didn’t lose
a game.

“This is the only thing you’ll see me wear
from another school,” he says.

Since being introduced as Davidson’s coach
last December, Toop has been working to-
ward one simple goal: To replace the ring
from Penn with one that he earns here.

“T told the team, if we break the streak, I'll
take it off. That’s the plan.”

“The Streak” currently stands at 17 con-
secutive victories. It spans over two seasons,
and now the tenures of three head coaches.

What’s unique about Toop’s hiring is that it
doesn’t come as a result of the failure of his
predecessors.

He is here precisely because of their suc-
cess. rt
Davidson’s last two coaches, Tim Landis
and Joe Susan, used their tenures as spring-

boards to higher-profile jobs.

Landis guided the Wildcats for seven sea-
sons, including a school-record eight wins
in each of his last two years. In April, 2000,
he became head coach at St. Mary’s (Calif.).

Landis was replaced by Joe Susan, who
led the school to its first undefeated season
in 103 years before taking an assistant posi-
tion at Rutgers in December.

Now it’s Toop’s turn to continue that
success, and it couldn’t come at a more
crucial juncture.

After spending more than 10 seasons in
relative anonymity as an I-AA Independent
school, the Wildcats next year will join nine
other schools in the football-only Pioneer
League.

Combine that with a roster that currently
contains only 42 players, and you can see the
challenge Toop is facing.

“That’s a very small number,” he says.
“Depth is a concern.”

Itis also why Toop spent his first month.as
head coach on the*road recruiting. His mes-
sage to dozens of high school seniors: Get a
top-notch education and play for a winning
football program at the same time.

“There’s a reason why they were unde-
feated,” he told them. “This team knows
how to win, and expects to win.

“I’m not going to sell Davidson,” Toop
said Friday. “Davidson is going to sell it-
self.”

Davidsonian Player
of the Week

Wayne Bernard

The sophomore guard
scored 16 of his 17
points in the second half
to lead the Wildcats to a
70-67 win over VMI on |

Tuesday.

THE WEEK

WRESTLING Women’s BASKETBALL
Feb.3 Duke 4 p.m. Feb. 3. @ Western Carolina 2 p.m.
UNC Greensboro Feb.5 = UNC Greensboro 7 pm.
Feb.7 Appalachian State 7 p.m.
Men’s BASKETBALL
SWIMMING Feb.3 Furman noon
Feb.3  @ Duke 1 p.m. Feb.6 @ Wofford 7 p.m.

