- _ Keditorial

Every student at this college should be concerned about the
contents of a campus-wide e-mail sent out last Friday by John
Casey, director of ITS.

The message provides a link to the first issue of “ITS
News,” which describes a “bandwidth crisis” that currently
confronts the school.

Over the summer, the campus upgraded to a new Internet
service to the tune of $125,000 a year, in hopes of speeding up
access to the Web in dormitories and classrooms. So far, the
upgrade has not provided the desired improvements.

‘Making matters worse, a Sony-affiliated watchdog agency
in Britain recently threatened to file a lawsuit against the
school, accusing it of violating the Digital Millennium Copy-
right Act of 2000 by harboring illegal file-exchanges on its
network. Apparently, many other schools across the country
have received similar warnings. “

SoITS has decided on anew plan of action, apparently after
giving up hope of fixing the problem itself. The new plan
places the burden on students.

Here’s an excerpt from /FS News: “Internet service is not
provided for personal use.... Given the seriousness of the
problem, and the amount of money involved, we mustall look
at our uses of the Internet and stop using bandwidth as if it
were free, or some kind of fringe benefit provided by the
College.”

This line of thought is troubling for several reasons.

In reality, “the amount of money involved” ought to refer
to the more than $30,000 it costs annually to attend this
school. Is there anything “free” about that?

At such a cost, it is completely reasonable to expect the
College to provide a wide variety of “benefits,” such as a
state-of-the-art student union, excellent professors and yes,
top-quality, extensive information/technology services.

Technological. improvements over recent years have
changed the way we live, work and play. Nowhere is that
change more evident than among college students. Instant
messaging, file sharing and downloading have become rou-
tine parts of our daily lives, both for academic and personal
reasons, and we shouldn’t.be told otherwise simply because
the college can’t clean up its own mess.

Could we live without them? Of course. But are our lives
better because of them? Without a doubt.

To be sure, we need to be more careful about when we
download music and videos. We should make an effort to
exchange large files only during non-peak hours.

The threat of litigation certainly complicates the issue,
but at this point, the chances seem unlikely that a lawsuit will
actually be filed. That’s because just about every college

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

.t

“NON SEQUITUR

EXPLIN ‘To NE AGAIN
WEN THEY CALL O86:
BEMIS...

Dest, Bt OnWeREM. Press HYMOME

student in America has engaged in illegal file sharing at some
point, and every college would be virtually shut down if the
new law were enforced. Until the issue becomes more clearly
defined by the courts, students are under no real danger of
legal sanctions.

Therefore, the alarmist, almost threatening tone of Casey’s
message, and the notion that responsibility for these problems
rests with students, represent a premature, unjustified reac-
tion to problems yet to be defined or fully understood.

Weas students should be mindful of our Internet habits. But
with the amount of financial and physical resources ITS has
at its disposal, its current course of action is misguided.

Writer distorted my position

In response to “Faculty out of line in blasting Bible
plaques (Letter to the Ed., Oct. 3).”

Were it not for the fact that Mr. Roland Foss correctly
quoted me, I would hardly have believed that he had actually
read the article from which the quotation came. For in no other
respect does his tirade in last week’ s Davidsonian reflect that
he had read what I was quoted as saying there.

First, Mr. Foss lambastes me for “picking up on a topic
that is currently being debated in the Catholic Church—that
is, inclusive language.” I chal-
lenge Mr. Foss to find any
reference that I make in that

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts.& Living Editors
Martha Hunt Derek Loh

Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser Jimmy Swansbrough
Photography Editors ©
__ Matt Whited

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

article to the issue of inclusive
language. My objections to the
NASV translation of Scripture
had nothing to do with its use
of non-inclusive language.
Secondly, Mr. Foss al-

leges that object tothe NASV
because I , as areligion profes-
sor, find “a literal translation undesirable.” Again, I would
challenge Mr. Foss.to show me where I ever made such a
statement. To the contrary, I think that a literal translation is
eminently desirable. As I was quoted as saying in the article,
I object to the NASV’s literal interpretation of Scripture.
That literal interpretation includes the NASV translators’
conviction that the Bible is “the inerrant Word of God”—a
conviction which, coming before even the first word is
translated, serves to shape the translation rather than to be
shaped by it. :

Finally, Mr. Foss implies that my remarks show that Iam
discounting the College’s Presbyterian roots. Again, if Mr.
Foss will reread the article, he will see that my objections to
the NASV translations on the plaques have precisely to do
with my conviction that they go against the College’s affili-
ation with the Presbyterian Church USA. While the NASV
may be the Bible of choice for many Presbyterian commun-
ions that have split off from the PCUSA, I cannot imagine that
any professor at any PCUSA seminary or college commend-
ing this translation to his or her students. In short, if we want
to be true to our historic roots with the Presbyterian Church ,
and to the tradition of critical scholarship which that church
embraces, we must shun the NASV translation.

While I appreciate Mr. Foss’s continuing to raise issues

_ Wepnesoay,
Ocroner 10, 2001

that are of vital concern to the College community, I must
confess to having been dismayed by the tone of his remarks
and by his caricature of the Religion Department, as well as
by his gross misreading of what I said. His remarks had the air
of one straining to imitate the child Jesus instructing the elders
in the temple. They were devoid, however, of the sagacity,
careful deliberation, and meekness that some of us fondly
hope the original model to have embodied. :
Dr. Trent Foley , :
Professor of Religion

Will and Charles strike back

Pop Quiz, freshmen. You are at a party where they are
serving punch. Do you:

a) ask an older friend how strong it is and drink accordingly

b)decide to pass on drinking that night

c) booze yourself into an extended hospital stay, then start
pointing fingers

This article fails to mention any of the following — religious
plaques, global war or plagiarism debates. If you want factual
content, then keep stealing my NY Times from the Union

‘every morning. Also, since our last article we’ ve learned that

we are arrogant, offensive, derivative, and we can’t spell
Officer Ramsay’s name. All future criticisms should be
directed to:

Will & Charles, c/o The Libertas, Davidson NC 28035 —
(This way, even if published, the complaints will never be
seen). ‘

But we took some of your comments to heart, so as a

humble service to the uninformed; we present — What He

Says/What He Thinks.

What He Says: I need to go get a beer. I'll be right back.

What He Thinks: Please God, let this conversation end.
(See how this works?)

WHS: V'll dance with you in a little while.

WHT: I’m not blackout yet.

WHS: Do you want to go back to my place and watch a
movie?

WHT: Do you want to go back to my place and hook up?

WHS: It’s definitely more fun up here than in the basement.

WHT: [ ran you a beer, now let me get back down there.

WHS: Oh, you’re going to Phi Delt for a few minutes?
Cool.

WHT: Dammit, she’s going to hook up with Trae Fletcher.
Again.

Unconstructive criticism:

Golf carts. In order to get one, you have to be an Alcoholic
That Tripped, a Physical Planter (they get the baby pick-up
trucks), or an Athlete That Stubbed Her Toe. Sounds like
discrimination to us. We demand moving sidewalks from
Ryburn to the Union, a ski lift from Akers to Chambers, and
a school bus running in a loop from the 2-5 to the Depot and
then to campus.

ROTC, we respect you. Should the terrorists invade
Mooresville, you (and maybe Phi-Delt) are our only line of
defense. But please do not schedule your 5 a.m. campus
scream sessions so early on Monday mornings. Sunday and
Tuesday nights are what we like to call Sober Sleep Nights —
without them, our bodies shut down. An alternative: Wednes-
day nights. You could march with a tuba and we would not
stir.

That’s it for this week. Enjoy the rest of the paper.

*The answer above was A, obviously.

Will Cannon ‘02

Charles Cushman ‘02

