Editorial

The cost of attending a men’s basketball game is getting out
of hand.

At last Thursday’s preseason game at Belk Arena, patrons
were charged three dollars for parking, then another six bucks
to sit in a red seat.

’ And that’s just the preseason. In
acouple of weeks, prices will go up
even more, to $10 for bleacher seats
and $14 for red seats, the highest
rates in the 12-team Southern Con-
ference.

It might seem amazing that some-
one would actually pay this much
money to attend a small college
basketball game. But keep in mind
that the overwhelming majority of
patrons are students, who get in
free, and wealthy senior citizens,
who can afford season tickets. Even
then, the 5,600-seat arena is rarely more than half full.

In the meantime, average Joe is getting shafted.

Ticket Office Manager Lee Sargent and other athletic
officials defend Davidson’s rates by arguing that they are on
par with similar entertainment options in the north
Mecklenburg area. That may be true from an economic
standpoint, but ethically, it doesn’t measure up.

Davidson supports athletics mainly to enhance the educa-
tional experiences of its students and to make money.

But sports—Division I basketball especially—are in a
unique position to serve as a source of unity and pride not only
for a college, but also for the residents of the entire town of
which it is a part.

The point here is not that Davidson shouldn’t charge
admission. There’s no doubt that athletes and coaches depend
on the revenue. The point is that-charging this much, espe-
cially for parking, excludes everyone but the wealthy from
attending games and being a part of the College.

Why can’t Davidson basketball become a point of entry for
local residents, especially middle- to low-income families
and youth who typically do not have a lot of disposable
income?

Given the diversity of the town, why are the crowds at Belk
Arena made up largely of old, rich white people?

Basketball presents a unique opportunity to bring together
a diverse group of people from all walks of life—on the court
and in the stands.

What a waste.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh .. Gavin Weber
Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser ~~ Jimmy Swansbrough
Photography: Editors.
Bit Berry Matt Whited
‘Advertisin B & eat } Managers

r stint Wepeces ,
“Maggie Kozicharow

h p://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

"NON SEQUITUR

DON'T WORRY, DEAR...
IT'S WST The WEDIA
—TRXING To 4carc

<
8
g
5
y
3

WILEN@NOW -SEQUITUP. CONN ont. BN UIE RSAL PRESS SYLO

WWW,

Sorry Professor,
military is only option

In response to “Professor speaks out against U.S. campaign
against terrorism.” (Nov. 7, Letter to the Editor).

The road to hell is paved with good intentions, or so the old
adage goes. Professor CampbeH’s column denouncing the
current military campaign against known terrorist organiza-
tions and their sponsors. brings to mind such a saying. I
appreciate his thoughtful and
patient thinking, but his argu-
ment against U.S. military ac-
tion is unsound.

Professor Campbell says
that welfare programs and hu-
manitarian aid on a global scale
should replace our military re-
sponse to the terrorist attacks.
He declares that the United States
can win the hearts and minds of those in poverty around the
world; and by combating poverty, we will isolate terrorist
leaders such as Osama Bin Laden. This argument is based on
false assumptions and is unconvincing.

The key hijackers of the ill-fated Sept. 11 flights were

‘neither poor nor uneducated. Mohamed Atta, whose face

newspapers have canvassed across their pages for weeks as
the “face of terror,” was the son of a wealthy Egyptian lawyer.
He spent the last nine years living in Germany and the U.S, far
from the harsh and barren lands of Afghanistan. Similarly,
another hijack leader, Ziad Jarrah, grew up in a well-off
Lebanese family. A fortiori, Jarrah attended private Christian
schools while living in Lebanon. These two nefarious char-
acters embraced fanatical, violent Islam in their later, and
materially comfortable stages in life. Their profiles suggest
that indigence is not the “root cause” of terrorism, as Profes-
sor Campbell claims.

The United States wishes to embrace the Islamic world for
many reasons, self-interest being foremost. But the immedi-
ate concern of the U.S. government in the face of the Sept. 11
attacks is not winning the hearts and minds of peaceful Islam;
rather it is to reduce the threat of fanatical, violent Islam
through whatever means necessary.

Opponents of military action initially called for “diplo-
macy, dialogue and cooperation” in order to resolve our
conflict with terrorism. After realizing the futility of such
measures, the doves then proposed that we use welfare
payments and humanitarian aid to combat terrorists. Clearly,
those who are willing to commit the ultimate sacrifice—
suicide—to attack America and the free world will not be
deterred by appeasement. A determined and fanatical enemy
bent on destruction is immune to countermeasures other than
annihilation.

The United States’ military campaign against the Taliban
has a specific and justified objective in its quest to eliminate

the al-Qaeda network and remove the Taliban from power. .

The Taliban has repeatedly refused both to turn over Bin
Laden and his lieutenants and to close the terrorists’ training

camps olich oor ioe nei fave reuincotendenee iS
To discontinue our military campaign against terrorist

networks and its supporters would be tantamount to genu-

flecting in cowardice before them. Until an alternative,

realistic and efficacious method of response emerges, we

should continue to combat terrorists on their own grounds.

Max van Amerongen ‘04

Awaken, fellow lovers
of democracy

Once again, a great portion of the conservative sentiment
on our campus has demonstrated to be an obscure doctrine
based upon the seizure of the Truth and concealing it from the
eyes of the public.

Less than one hour after the co-president of the Young
Democrats had finished posting a series of thought-provok-
ing flyers, hoping to ignite concern and awareness in the
student body during these tense times, angry conservatives
deliberately scribbled furious messages on them, and eventu-
ally tore them down during an otherwise beautiful Sunday
afternoon. As puzzling as it may sound, this is not by any
means startling.

Unlike the democratic and liberal organizations, extreme
conservative sentiment on the Davidson campus has proven
to have a large and powerful presence that continuously acts
as a clandestine movement.

In fact, one of the biggest concerns of the Democratic and
liberal organizations on campus is how to get the opposition
organized, so that key issues can be debated openly and
presented to students through the lenses of both political
wings and, together, fight one of the greatest common en-
emies to human kind: ignorance.

More specifically, the point is to trigger a greater concern
for political affairs on what seems to be a rather passive
campus.

But these extreme, die-hard, flyer-tearing reactionaries,
hiding under the name of Conservatism, seem to be “happy”
with the current political involvement of the student body. So
happy, that they are willing to fight in order to keep the level
of passiveness by means of unscrupulous measures — such as.
posting their own fliers (without the names of the authors, of
course), throwing out false statements during question and
answer sessions after formal political presentations and exit-
ing the room immediately after doing so and tearing down
democratic and liberal postings (this last one seemingly
because they see these revealing fliers as a threat to the
peacefully apathetic atmosphere that we as Davidson stu-
dents currently enjoy).

The true meaning of moderate Conservatism holds that
resistance to change is noble only when it comes to certain
things such as keeping our cultural values and roots, for
instance. But Conservatism has no say when it comes to
changing and increasing the political awareness of our cam-
pus, because awareness is another type of freedom, it is our
right as human beings to know what is happening around us.
As soon as Conservatism interferes with this liberty, it has
automatically become reactionary traditionalism.

Thus I say to each fellow Davidsonian: The time has come
to act, to awaken. :

I call upon every liberal and organization on this campus to
come together and fight for this cause. To the conservative
supporters, likewise, I ask that you also unite and join us in
this battle for Truth; for when it comes to fighting for an
objective as noble as this one, there is no break, there is no
peace, there is no mercy. After all, is this not why we are all
here in college, to seek the Truth and to find ourselves and
where we stand?

The enemy does not rest during Ramadan, and neither
should we.

Ricardo Ampudia ‘04

