By Coin EAGAN
Staff Writer

The Davidson Internet home page will
undergo a facelift before 2002. Though ser-
viceable, the current site has grown cumber-
some and inefficiently organized. A new
design is being developed in response to
observations that Davidson Online has been
weaving a tangled web.

The home page we now know so-well has
been active sine 1997, when it was completed
by the company Vialogix, headed by alum-
nus Ron Chapple ’79. Bryan Skelton ’93 was
also instrumental in development of the site.
“The current site has served us very well,”
said Meg Kimmel ‘77, Director of College
Communications. “But, it’s been around for
five years now, and we’ ve learned a lot about
how people use the Internet in that time.”
Kimmel points to achange in the logic behind
web page programming as it has developed
over the-years. “Many early web pages were
created with less of an idea of how people
were going to use them and how navigation
really works,” she continued. “The current
Davidson page mirrors in many ways the
organizational structure of the college, rather
than focusing on how site visitors will navi-
gate it efficiently.” The new page, which will
be built on a completely new server, should
be a good deal more user friendly. The
graphic design will be completely new, al-
though the basic components of the homepage
will be much the same.

Redesigning the page is no easy task. Col-
lege web designers face the duel task of
creating a page that must serve the college
community and represent Davidson to the
rest of the world. Many prospective students

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY'S:

Pan taae

and their parents are introduced to the school
not in person, but electronically. And you
only get one chance to make a first impres-
sion.

“For many students it’s the first time they
come across us,” commented Kimmel. “We
certainly want to reflect as much as possible
about what Davidson is and what we believe

School’s Web site will get facelift before 2002

ideas on how to restructure the site for a full
year before her arrival. “The current site is
useable and efficient, with appeal to both the
Davidson community and the external audi-
ence,” Tucker said. “But there is room for
improvement. I observed difficulty with page
management on the current site, in the sense
that it was a bit cumbersome to get around. It

in: You have prompted
to accomplish me to
X A Vavidson College Main Menu? - Microsnlt Internet Explorer 7 : 7
alotinthatfirst “ie Em Yew Fares ok Hep ee ae et think of
” 7 Heat ahr eee ue. nay > aa Dhl 7 : ‘ oe es Se ~ ¢
second.” This aia: oe ae ee a BS : as ways that
becomes quite ‘Adress (4) hntp:/trwes tavidson.edul ‘s}| O60 we could
a challenging “to Liberate the Minds of Young imp le-
task when one of Lontershap and Service? ment a
must represent DAVIDSON better
the nature of an FEA RETR manage-
entire school Lagitemncs a etiale session Spb tate seiner _ment sys-
A [Adauission e ”
on one web = aes € tem.
site. “There {asics ‘ig Tucker
are many on [ecintace hopes to
Le . .
campus who [Sanypur Divestary 1m Pp I €
canconvey the [classical 699 ment a
Davidson [Ways of Giving Welcome to Davidson College content
{ Lxformation 2
message,” @iiai sek fiseastar er er ~~  manage-
Kimmel con- Matt Whited ment sys-
tinued. “But Davidson’s website will get a facelift i in tem to
how youtrans- coming months. improve
late that into a organiza-

workable, useable, manageable website is a
whole other thing.”

To assure that such a challenge is met head
on, a new employee has been brought to
Davidson. Sandra Tucker has taken on the
position of Editor of New Media, and has
worked extensively on developing the new
page since August. Tucker has collaborated
with the Joint Committee on Information and
Technology and the Web Oversight Commit-
tee, whose members had been generating

Earth Systems Science and Astronomy
programs are offered for, Science and
Non-science majors at Columbia University
Biosphere 2 campus near Tucson, Arizona.

tion. Assisted by Jaimie Beatty in ITS, she
has been developing prototypes involving
Active Server Page technology, or ASP. This
technology, developed by Microsoft, allows
those with pages on the Davidson site to
manage more easily their web space. Cur-
rently, knowledge of HTML is required for
editing purposes. ASP coding will allow for
easier page maintenance, without dependence
on HTML familiarity. Kimmel hopes this
will assist many on campus who deal with the

LUNG
FOREST

‘BY COLUMBIA FACULTY!

HABITAT.

cumbersome system that currently exists.
“There a lot of faculty on campus who enjoy
web work, but their job is to teach,” she said.
“They don’t have the time to be updating
content, even if they are fluent in HTML
coding.”

Beatty speaks highly of the new technol-
ogy. “Active Server Pages technology al-
lows us to create dynamic, data-driven web
pages,” she commented. “Many of the new
pages won’t be HTML code at all, they will
built dynamically from information stored in
adatabase. We also plan to use ASP to create
a searchable Image Catalog of photos and
graphics, which the campus can use in their
web pages or download for print material.”

Because individual page authors will no
longer have to program from scratch, ASP
technology should assist in developing more
continuity among pages on the Davidson site.
Tucker also hopes to develop a web page
guide for all those editing web space online.
The result should be a neater and more user-
friendly website. “Our goal is to achieve
graphic unity without uniformity, and consis-
tency with out cookie-cutter sameness,” said
Tucker. After all, any web site is only as
strong as its weakest link.

Hopefully, the new systems will come in
handy for the not so technologically-inclined
among us. Just ask Wes Chaney’04. “TI hear
the page will operate with a new flux capaci-
or,” he avowed. “Now that’s technology.”

Those in College Communications hope to
have the new site up before the start of the
new calendar year, Kimmelassures the David-
son community that an instantaneous
changeover will mean we are not left for
seven a second without a web site. As she

observed, “We’re all too dependent on it!”

Davidson College Undergraduate Students can earn up to 18 course credits.

RAINFOREST

At Davidson contact
Michael Dorcas,
Dept. of Biology, at

894-2727 or

midorcas@davidson.edu_
You may also visit |
pies 2 at

