tate crime legislation

undermines our freedom

Much debate has occurred over recent years
both in Congress and among the general
public about legislation that would give
harsher punishment to criminals convicted of
crimes that were
committed be-
cause of preju-
dice or hatred of
a particular
group.
So-called “hate
crime” legisla-
tion calls formore
severe punish-
ment for crimi-
ae nals accused of
*“ David Crow ‘05 committing
crimes that were directed at a specific race,
religion, gender, national origin, sexual ori-
entation or handicap. Essentially, a person
accused of a crime that was motivated by a
hatred of one of these groups would be given
a longer sentence than a person who had no
bias against their attacker. The theory behind
this legislation is that individuals or groups
who take violent action against an individual
based on prejudice are not just terrorizing the

. victim, but also the entire group to which that
person belongs.

It is obvious why hate crime legislation is
so popular in Congress: It gives politicians a
way to show that they care about these spe-
cific interest groups and are willing to offer
them extra protection. The problem is that
hate crime legislation, as itis currently worded,
comes dangerously close to violating the
principles of free speech and ideas on which
this country is based.

While there is no question that itis wrong
to attack someone based on prejudice, is it
right to punish someone more severely sim-

ply because they hold certain beliefs? Hate
crime legislation seems to be an attempt at
thought control. We are not just punishing
action, but also beliefs. While individuals
should be punished for expressing their be-
liefs violently, it should be only the expres-
sion of those ideas, not the ideas themselves
that get punished.

The free expression of ideas is one way
we are able to expand the rights of
underrepresented groups. By regulating ideas
we are potentially making it more difficult for
the groups these laws seek to protect to gain
true equality. For this reason, the ACLU
opposes current hate crime legislation, say-
ing, “It is our belief that vigilant protection of
free speech rights has historically opened the
doors to effective advocacy for expanded
civil rights protections.”

Furthermore, establishing laws to protect
certain groups more than the community as a
whole could have a potentially isolating ef-
fect. If we are going to categorize people into
groups so that they may be protected from
hate crimes, we can’t stop at just five or six.
What about those who commit crimes against
abortionists, or the homeless? Naming only
some of these groups isolates others, while
also separating the groups that are singled out
from the rest of society.

We don’t need more laws that seek to
divide us even further into defined constitu-
encies. Weare all human beings and an attack
on another human being, whatever the moti-
vation, is an attack on us all. While hate
crimes should certainly be punished just as
any other crime, instituting further punish-
ment based on ideas and beliefs undermines
the very notion of freedom that we have
fought so hard to protect.

In the spirit of Homer,
Michaelangelo, Jefferson....

Did you know that the original blueprints
for Davidson College were based on those of
the N.C. Lunatic Asylum, a home for the
insane in the early 1800s? After the Civil
War was fought, those original plans were
abandoned
and replaced
by a classical
design.

The influ-
ence of classi-
cal architec-
ture in
America dates
to our Revolu-
tionary War.
Not only was
the Constitu-
tion based on
the ideals of
the ancient Greeks and Romans, but our ar-
chitecture was as well. Thomas Jefferson’s
architectural prophet was Palladio, the ge-
nius of the Renaissance. Jefferson strived to
achieve a neoclassic look in his Monticello
home and his state buildings — including the

University of Virginia. Classic art and archi-
"tecture is regarded as the highest style of
architecture for civilized man.

That’ s why itis so appropriate for Davidson,
the school of brooding geniuses. How un-
canny. would it be if we had the Chambers
Building in its antebellum style and all of our
dorms designed by Frank Lloyd Wright?

Have you ever walked past Chambers on a
- cold night? The air is so clear that the edifice
seems to be a dream, a place where only
gerliuses like Plato, Einstein and Voltaire
would learn and teach. I always expect to see

Cannon Hodge ‘04

Michelangelo standing on metal scaffolding
chipping away at the stone, carving another
masterpiece. Davidson’s architecture is in-
spiring.

I believe that if our campus became an
architectural smorgasbord, it would only dem-
onstrate our disinterest and debasing of the
Classics. Our liberal arts education is founded
on the theories dating to the Greeks and
Romans, and our architecture coincides with
those same originators. It is succinct, time-
less and perfect. oy

Duke University’s West Campus is fa-
mous for its Gothic architecture. The school
hired men to mold the steps so that it looked
as if people had been trotting on them for
eternity. But what about the other parts of its
campus? It looks like a flowerbed of Holiday

‘Inns. Only a portion of Duke’s architecture is
famous.

Even though our school may give the im-
pression of being unimaginative and being a
mere reproduction of the popular antebellum
architecture, these buildings represent a his-
tory. They tell a story of Palladio, Homer,

and Jefferson, and follow the spirit of the
aqueducts in France and Michelangelo’s St.
Peter’s Cathedral. Our campus is a represen-
tation of the liberal arts mission, and it in-
spires us to think beyond our normal param-
eters. ;

To those who believe our campus needs a
diverse range of facades, I challenge you to
walk from the old Union to the new one at
night. If you do not feel inspired in the least

: bit, then maybe I am wrong. But I can assure.
you that the simple tranquility of that build-
ing is more breathtaking than any made of
stone.

Think deeper before reacting

It’s easy to say that the media likes to
overhype any story it can get its hands on,
whether it is about a cat getting stuck ina tree
ora politician having a piece of broccoli stuck
in his teeth. You hear people say that news-
casts only show footage with helicopter chases
or bloody riots and that papers print pictures

of victim’s fami-
ies after a trau-
matic event.
Well, you’d be
right. It is often
he journalistic
way to seek out
he most contro-
versial material
and expose it in
the eye of the pub-
lic no matter how
upsetting or de-

Tim Cook ‘04
pressing.

We had such a case in the last week here at
school that many felt crossed the line be-
tween good and bad reporting, embellish-
ment and poor sources. It was an interesting
case about a fraternity, a claim of utmost
seriousness and the cause and effects of what
would happen if the guilty party was found.
To get to the bottom of the case, we had to do
a little thinking and cast out immediate
thoughts of rage and disgust so that our minds
are clear and free to discern the facts from the
fiction.

You as the reader have the right to think
freely about the subject and ask around for
yourself after the article has been published.
The newspaper is not always the final word.

My point in is not to defend my paper, but
merely to remind us all that everyone is

human and because of that the truth often
does not emerge as quickly as we'd like.

The article last week on SAE’s attempt to ©
find the alleged culprits was meant to be just
that. There were allegations on the Court
directed at the brothers of the house and we
felt compelled to report a story that had all
those who knew the situation in an uproar.
Someone at Davidson had accused someone
else of a hate crime. Because the night was
chaotic and dark and loud, there were no
witnesses who had come forward to testify
before last week. Our best source then was
Patterson Court Council President Matt
Arbuckle, who was glad to tell us all he knew.
Unfortunately, by the time the paper had been
distributed, the article on the front page was
out-of-date because of the letter to Skylar
Hoffman and several witnesses who had since
come forward. Those are the perils of a weekly
paper.

But nevertheless, I stand by the story and
editorials that we ran. They got people talk-
ing about hate crimes and the nature of the
Court, in particular its openness. It also re-
minded people that it is tough to be a homo-
sexual at a small school like ours.

And that is a big problem with how we look
at this situation and other situations in life.
It’s like we have to be mad at someone at all
times. I felt this way when I heard about the
initial reports of the vicious inhuman acts of
hate on a friend of mine. Others felt it when
the terrorist attacks shook up our blanketed
society. And though the terrorist acts were
caught on camera, many things are not.

Before we start attacking each other and
flinging ourselves blindly into battle, let’s
take a step back and consider everything.

End terror with military force

War and death are a part of the world,
always have and always will be. Some will
rise to power and cause destruction out of
self-interest or fanaticism (such as Hitler and
Mao). Other times war is the result of compe-
tition for re-
sources or ideo-
logical differ-
ences between
two groups.
Whatever the
cause, history has
shown that .the
group not willing
to fight when
challenged will
suffer. I believe
that most people
agree with that on
some basic level.

The question then becomes, is the current
situation in Afghanistan one of those times
when fighting is the best solution. Josh Craft,
in his article entitled “Ideas, not bombs should
be top priority in Afghanistan” (which ap-
peared in the October 24, 2001 edition of the
Davidsonian), argues that the U.S. response
to terrorism should be limited to increasing
U.S. aid to foreign nations, the establishment
of an International Criminal Court, and the
criticizing of Israel’s actions in Palestine.

Craft obviously does not believe that bomb-
ing Afghanistan provides any solution to our
current problem. I too see the negative side-
effects of the military:action. After all, some
of the millions of mis:.d Arab citizens (which,
‘by the way, all live under some form of
dictatorship) will surely interpret our actions
as an attack on Islam itself. This will inevita-
bly lead to more terrorist actions in the future.
However, such side-effects are minute when
compared to the problems associated with
Craft’s suggestions. ;

As a response to being attacked the U.S.
sends more money to struggling nations ? By

" Mike Galdo ‘04

examining how U.N. dollars have been used
in the past one can see the results of such a
“solution.” Afghanistan built a soccer sta-
dium with U.N. funds that they now use for
public executions and money sent to African
nations to build roads has been pocketed by
corrupt officials. Direct action by non-profit
organizations has produced many positive
results, and private corporations, as well as
the U.N., should continue to support them.
However, such policies. would hardly solve
the current crisis.

Craft’s suggestion of criticizing Israel could
produce many more negative results than the
Arab and U.N. support for U.S. policy it
would garner. Although Israel does use U.S.
money to fight against their Arab enemies,
they also use it to provide us with needed
intelligence information. Not to mention the
fact that Israel is the only strong democratic
society in the middle-east, and a nation we
hold dear as an ally. True, Israel has acted in
a manner that some view as extreme. But as
long as the Palestinian nation is being con-
trolled by terrorist organizations, its official
Web site includes multimedia slideshows
showjng Sharon (Israel’s leader) morphing
into Hitler and its official television station
runs a Disney-like program that features eight
to 10 year old children singing the glories of

- killing Israelis, Jihad, and suicide as the path

to heaven, I personally find it difficult to
criticize Israeli actions. :

Increasing humanitarian aid to Afghani-
stan does need to take place for many moral,
as well as political, reasons. However, our
continued military incursions to root out ter-
ror from festering in the fertile soil of Islamic
Radicalism must occur. The U.S. govern-
ment has a responsibility to its own citizens,
as well as those that inhabit democratic soci-_
eties throughout the globe combine its politi-
cal and economic efforts to end terrorism
with strong, precise military action.
