SRT att

im nt ae its spring main fae seeshuchen.
wy 22-25. Visiting Associate Professor Jack

ay) manners, which begins at 8 p.m. each night in

€ musicians a as they ee their a oe the pen ‘This fetes minute
performance} will commence at a= on Ty, February 15; sales in Love Auditorium.

4 say for students, a

healthy habits, warns

about eating disorders

- By Jessica MERING
News Editor

Eating disorders are the third most com-
mon illness among young women. In an ef-
fort to face this problem, the Student Health
center brought nutritionist Janet Lepke Har-
ris to campus as part of Eating Disorder
Awareness Week.

Lepke appeared in the 900 Room last
Wednesday to discuss healthy eating habits

and the dangers of skewed attitudes toward .

food. She pointed out that thinness is a “cul-
tural value” which feeds a $40 billion dollar
per year diet industry. Lepke cited a recent

- study by the California Department of Health

Services which noted that 80% of forth-grade
girls are or have been on a diet.

Eating disorders, which can include anor-
exia nervosa, bulimia and overeating, are
often triggered by much more than simply the
desire to be thin, Lepke said. Alcohol or food
abuse, sexual abuse, depression or a need for
control are commonly underlying: issues in
individuals with eating disorders. A poor
relationship with food is then a symptom of a
larger problem. Traits commonly associated
with eating disorders are compulsive needs
for control and the constant desire for perfec-
tion. Many also respond to stress with food;
unhealthy overeating is atypically dangerous
reaction.

Lepke outlined the health risks of eating
disorders and emphasized their possible se-
verity. Damage can occur in the form of lost
menstrual periods, stress fractures, dehydra-
tion and cramps. Permanent injury to internal

organs is also possible. Aside from these
problems, Lepke reminded the audience that
dieting can actually lead to weight gain. Un-
healthy dieting will lead to excessive hunger
which individuals will often curb by overeat-
ing. Lepke called this “dieting your way to
obesity.”

Certain myths must be dispelled in order to
eat properly, said Lepke. It is not true that
meals must be cooked in order to be healthy,
or that all snacking leads to weight gain. She
encouraged the audience not to assume that
frozen or packaged foods, fast food or restau-
rant fare is necessarily unhealthy. Lepke noted
that it is not necessary to eat three full meals
each day. Instead, it is just as acceptable to
have smaller, more frequent meals without
gaining weight. She also said that while it is
important not to connect food with emotional
distress, individuals should not be at a point
where they feel guilty after eating certain
foods. “It is important to feel comfortable
eating a Twinkie after a hard day,” she com-
mented.

Instead of constant attention to weight,
Lepke suggested other ways to gauge well-
being. Questions like “Do I feel better? Do I
have more energy? Am I performing better?
Am I happier?” are helpful for self-monitor-
ing. Overall, Lepke emphasized control over
food and feeling comfortable with eating
instead of focus on exercise or calorie count-

‘ing.

David Wheeler contributed to this ar-
ticle.

Traffic Accident 2/12/01 .

Office assisted the town of Davidson
Police Department with a vehicular acci-
dent at Main Street and Glasgow. Medics
responded to the scene and transported the
driver of one of the vehicles to the hospital
for further examination. The other driver
was examined at the scene and released.

Alcohol Violation 2/11/01

Officer cited a'subject for underage con-
sumption of an alcoholic beverage. The
subject was intoxicated and required assis-
tance from the officer. This incident will be
forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Y :

Suspicious Person 2/9/01

Officers responded to Little residence
hall to investigate a suspicious person com-
plaint. The suspicious person was described
as a white male wearing a red sweatshirt,
blue jeans, and a Halloween devil’s mask.
Upon arrival the officers were unable to
locate anyone fitting the description.

Damage to property 2/8/01.

A member of Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity
reported that an unknown person threw a
beer can through the front window of the
house breaking the glass and causing ap-
proximately $30 worth of damage.

~

po?

For2/07/01 -2/13/01

Alcohol Violation 2/8/01

Officer cited a subject for underage con-
sumption of an alcoholic beverage near the |
Outpost. This incident will be forwarded to
the judicial officer for review..

Drunk & Disruptive subject 2/8/01

Officer observed a golf cart with ap-
proximately 6 passengers driving recklessly
on the grass behind the Outpost. The of-
ficer stopped the golf cart and made contact
with the driver. The driver was cooperative
and turned over the key to the officer. One
of the passengers began to argue with the
officer and disregarded the officer’s re-
quest to leave the area. The subject was
intoxicated and continued to be disruptive.
The officer identified the subject and in-
formed the subject that he would be cited
for his behavior. This incident will be
forwarded to the judicial officer for review.

Loud Party 2/8/01

Officer received a complaint regarding a
loud party at the Kappa Alpha fraternity
house. Upon arrival the officer heard loud
music coming from the house. The officer
observed approximately 50 people in the
house and made contact with one of the .
members. The member promptly turned
off the music and cleared the house.

compiled by Marlon Lynch,
Assistant Director of Campus Police

