By Brooke WEIHE
Special Contributor

It’s Spring semester again; time for clean
Slates in the classrooms, people returning
from being abroad, and new students in lead-
ership positions across campus. SGA held
their elections last week, the Union Board is
appointing new chairs this week, and Patterson
Court Council is full of new, fresh faces and
ideas. There aren’t just new house presidents
and representatives, though. The executive
board of PCC was elected at the end of last
semester and new positions have been cre-
ated to improve the Court’s relationships
with the rest of the student body, the faculty,
and the administration.

First and foremost, there is a new president
at the helm. Matt Arbuckle, a Junior in SAE,
is taking over the position of PCC president
from Chad Phillips and has gone full speed
ahead with his numerous ambitious ideas for
the future of Patterson Court. “As PCC
president I hope to facilitate a working rela-
tionship between the administration and the
students so that we can create an environment
which is not only fun but safe as well. during
my tenure as president, the things that I want
to emphasize are individual responsibility of
members of Patterson court, building com-
munity between organizations, and making
sure that people see a good return on their
financial investment from being a member of
a Patterson Court organization. In coopera-
tion with SGA, we are hoping to make the
vamanos van a reliable source of transporta-
tion for Davidson students by providing the
necessary man power to make it so.”

Arbuckle’s right hand man on PCC, the
Chancellor, is North Moore, a Sophomore in
Kappa Sigma. He faces the daunting task of
making sure all the houses are up to par with
standards and he is responsible for the often
criticized alcohol policy. He gave the follow-
ing statement regarding his ambitions as Chan-

cellor: “Iam looking forward to working with
the newly appointed Standards committee
and providing PCC with strong leadership for
the implementation of the Standards Pro-
gram. I am hopeful that it will develop more
fully over the coming term. I also hope to
analyze, and possibly revise, both the alcohol
and risk management policies of Davidson
College. With the help of a committee, some

-of the congestion and misconceptions of our
policies can be remedied.”

Mary Kat White is taking on the challenge
of serving as Sergeant at Arms for PCC. In
this position she will preside over the Judicial
Board. Mary Kat is a member of the class of
2002 and also a member of Connor House.
As Sergeant at Arms, she is looking into ways
to have fewer trials, promoting self-policing
for houses and making sure all organizations

‘on the court are well aware of the rules, and
possibly creating a new position in each house
of a J-Board representative.

The former treasurer of CoHo, Grant
Lovellette, is moving up to become the trea-
surer for PCC. He is also the first represen-
tative from CoHo to serve on the executive
board. After playing an integral role in suc-
cessfully building up the co-ed eating house,
he seemed a perfect choice to become the
PCC treasurer, which could always use help
making and saving money.

Kai Wagenheim and Shaw Hipsher, sopho-
mores from Connor and Rusk respectively,
are the new PCC service chairs. They face the
task of finding a new Patterson Court-wide
service project for this year, since the tradi-
tional Relay for Life will be taking place after
graduation this year. Shaw and Kai are look-
ing forward to the new challenge, saying,
“We have a court-wide project in the works
involving a trash pick up [with an] environ-
mental-community theme, and that we are
going to work with the houses that would like
to adopt an organization or project and help.
them come up with cool and fun ways to get

and keep their house involved with it.”

The two new PCC executive board posi-
tions are those of a scholarship chair and a
social chair. These will be filled by Joanna
Parker, a Junior from Warner Hall, and Evan
McCormick, a Junior in Kappa Sigma. The
scholarship position will serve as a way of
“bringing a greater sense of academic aware-
ness to the court,” as Joanna puts it, She has
already conceived the idea of a Study Hour
session on the court, the first one to take place
February 27th at Rusk, and would like to
implement PCC tutoring.

Evan’s position as social chair was brought
in for. numerous reasons, one: of the more
prominent being improving communication
between Patterson Court and the Union. Evan
had this to say about his thoughts and goals
for his role on PCC: “As anew position of the
PCC,.I am excited to add an additional re-
source to the PCC and the Davidson commu-
nity alike. As the Social Chair, my main goal
is to bridge the gap between the PCC and the
Union Board by developing a better relation-
ship that will promote unity and partnership

- amongst both groups. The PCC and the

Union Board serve important roles on this
campus, therefore a stronger relationship can
only result ina better social atmosphere around
campus.” He is also looking into a possible
review of the alcohol policy and assisting
interaction between the houses_on the court.

Patterson Court as a whole is starting out
the year on ahigh note. The average GPA for
Patterson Court members was a3.1339, slightly
higher than that of independents, a 3.050.
Every house but one achieved an average
GPA of over 3.0. The new PCC website is up
and running (http://www.davidson.edu/ad-
ministrative/residencelife/
PattersonCourtWeb/index.htm), and the new
Spring semester PCC stickers that students
require for admission to all court parties are
back on sale in the Outpost. The new house
presidents are all elected and excited for the
coming year.

Stephanie.René Barfield
William B Cannon
Melissa Ann Chiprich
Christina A. Conner
Abigail D. Johnson-Reid

Psi Chi, the National Honor Society in Psychology, is proud to announce that the
Davidson College Chapter of Psi Chi inducted 10 new members into the honor society on
Tuesday, February 20, 2001. Psi Chi was founded in 1929 for the purposes of encouraging,
stimulating, and maintaining excellence in scholarship, and advancing the science of
psychology. Membership is awarded to graduate and undergraduate men and women who
are making the study of psychology one of their major interests and who meet the
qualifications. Psi Chi is a member of the Association of College Honor Societies and is
an affiliate of teh American Psychological Associate (APA) and the American Psychologi-
cal Society (APS). Psi Chihas grown over the past 70 years into one of the largest and most
successful honor societies in the world with over 930 chapters located at college and
university campuses throughout the U.S. Davidson’s 2001 inductees are:

Anna J. Kvanvig
Kristina Renee Miller
Rebecca L. Rich
Melanie J. Wadkins

Ida Catherine Wainschel

100% Natural Spring
Water is a gre

at

thirst quencher!

NATURAL S

16.9 FL. OZ (.5

DAVIDSON

G WATER
a

