Strange White Stripes found on new White Blood Cells

BY CHRIS SCHMADER
Special Contributor

The hallmark of popular music, the reason
it remains endlessly entertaining as the years
progress, is its remarkable variety of voices.
Even MTV and the most dogmatic, hits-and-
only-hits radio stations now play songs from
a solid range of musical styles. These listen-
ing avenues, however, only represent the tip
of the iceberg. Once you delve into online
music publications, college radio, and sketchy
local clubs like the Cat’s Cradle in Chapel
Hill, the breadth of musical experience in the
United States alone becomes apparent.

In recent years, Detroit has produced the
White Stripes, a band that captures perfectly
the idiosyncratic nature of rock’n’roll. Ear-
lier this year, the Stripes released White Blood
Cells, an album that takes one more step in
consolidating their developing style, a raw
form of ‘60’s garage rock that sounds
unique and fresh today.

The White Stripes are comprised of guitar-
ist/vocalist Jack White and drummer Meg
White, his supposed-sister. (One more reason
you shouldn’t believe everything you read:
Meg is actually Jack’s ex-wife, but until
recently they kept the press in the dark re-
garding their true relationship). They entitled
their second album De Stijl, after a Dutch
architectural style characterized by its sim-
plicity. Considering Jack White’s stripped-

down approach to songwriting and perform-
ing, it is an appropriate reference. Most
photos of the band find them clad only in red
and white, a move that further resonates with

Jack and Meg White of The White Stripes: Siblings?

Lovers? Both?

their band name and bare bones sound.
By now, the improbability and utter weird-
ness of this band should be plain to see, and

Photo Copywright www.whitestripes.com

once you listen to White Blood Cells, the
White Stripes’ strangeness becomes an ex-
hilarating fact. On tracks like “Dead Leaves
on the Dirty Ground” and “Offend in Every
Way,” the notes
and chords erupt
from Mr.
White’s guitarin
abluesy, fuzzed-
out snarl, while
his voice alter-
nates from gritty
to gentle. Ms.
White’s drum-
ming remains
locked into a
minimalist
pulse, giving the
music weight
and power that
derive from its
simple nature.
These mid-
tempo, pound-
ing rockers are
the norm on this
album, but the
band scatters di-
vergences from
this standard
throughout the disc. “Hotel Yorba” bounces
along with an insistent beat and a poppy
acoustic melody. “Fell in Love With a Girl”

moves so fast that it sounds close to punk, and
the slow-cooker “The Union Forever” drops
lines from Citizen Kane. In the end, though,
the back-to-the-basics attitude of the band
persists over the course of the consistently
thrilling album, providing coherence and
never failing to retain interest.

Despite its overall excellence, White Blood
Cells sometimes takes the Stripes’ premise
too far, as in the dirge-like “Expecting” and
the seemingly tossed-off “Little Room.”
These failures quickly recede, however, in
light of the overall unity and forcefulness of
the album. Jack White’s lyrical voice inhab-
its every song, his lines filled with innocent
words that sound consciously chosen instead —
of the depressing navel-gazing and cynical
hedonism of much other pop music. In “We’re
Going to Be Friends,” he sings from the point
of view of an elementary school student talk-
ing happily with one of his female class-
mates. And in “Hotel Yorba” he sings, “It
might sound silly for me to think childish
thoughts like these/ But I’m so tired of acting
tough and I’m gonna do what I please.” The
way he sings those lines makes it impossible
to doubt his sincerity or the Stripes’ genuine
love of rock’n’roll. Distinctive and passion-
ate about their art, the White Stripes reward
scouring of rock’s less familiar regions’ as
they continue to be one more reason why
popular music is such a blast.

North Carolina Writers’ network honors college alumnus

PRESS RELEASE
College Communications

On Saturday afternoon, November 17, the
North Carolina Writers’ Network will honor
Charlotte’s Joe Martin for his unique contri-
butions to North Carolina literature and to
civic life in Charlotte. This event will take
place as part of the NCWN’s seventeenth
annual Fall Conference, Bridges, Not Bound-
aries: Building a Writing Community, at the
Adam’s Mark Hotel in Charlotte, N.C., No-
vember 16-18, 2001. The conference offers
all new workshops and roundtable panels on
specific aspects of writing and selling fiction,
non-fiction, and poetry. For those in the
Charlotte area, Joe Martin is a familiar figure.
He may well be the best-loved figure in
Charlotte. But for those from other parts of
the state, Joe Martin may not be so well
known.

He is the author of two books. On Any
Given Day, co-written with Ross Yockey, is
the story of his battle with amyotrophic lat-
eral sclerosis (ALS), a motor neuron disease.

His second book, Fire in the Rock, a novel
about race relations in South Carolina during
his childhood, was just published in October
by Novello Festival Press. Pat Conroy has
called it “a beautiful novel.” Joe has been an
inspiration to thousands of readers, not only
because of his books, but also because of his
life-long battle for better relations between
the races in the Carolinas and because of his
heroic fight against ALS or Lou Gehrig’s
Disease.

A native of South Carolina and a graduate
of Davidson College and Duke University,
Martin came to Charlotte in 1973 to work for
what was then NCNB. Under Martin’s lead-
ership the bank became much more involved
with the African-American community than
it had been previously. Martin pioneered
low-interest loans to stimulate minority busi-
nesses. “He passionately believed the bank
could be used to make the world a better
place,” says his friend and colleague Dennis
Rash. He also served on the Charlotte-
Mecklenbug School Board during the 1980s
under George Battle, now a Bishop in the

African-American Methodist Church.

In 1994 he was diagnosed with ALS and
became determined to make the time he had
left valuable. In 1997, when he received the
Whitney Young Award for his contributions
to racial harmony, he inaugurated the concept
of “race day,” a day each week when people
of different races or ethnic backgrounds would
have lunch together. Together with his brother
Jim, Governor of North Carolina from 1984-
1992, Joe launched a drive to establish an
ALS Treatment Center at Carolinas Medical
Center, the first in this part of the country.

By this time he had published a short story,
“Sister Holy Ghost and the Fourth of July,”
which became the first chapter of his novel;
and he and Ross Yockey had begun On Any
Given Day, composed largely on an eye gaze
computer, which allows Joe to type by focus-
ing his eyes on specific letters of the alphabet.
With the help of novelist Ashley Warlick,
who served as his editor, he then completed
Fire in the Rock. Says Warlick, “I believe Joe
comes from the same literary line as Walker
Percy and Andre Dubus, gifted with a strong

West Wing, HBO dominate the ’01 Emmys

DEREK LOH
Arts & Living Editor

While most televisions were tuned to Fox
and the final game of this year’s world series,
CBS aired the 53" annual prime time Emmy
awards. Twice postponed for reasons relat-
ing to the terrorist attacks, the Academy of
Television Arts and Sciences’ ceremony was
broadcasted from the Shubert Theater in Los
Angeles. Ellen DeGeneres hosted the show,
and she even donned a swan dress, parodying
Bjork’ s getup at this year’s Oscars. DeGeneres
also made a few references to the show’s
rescheduling and the situation in Afghani-
stan: she joked, “I feel I’m in a unique posi-
tion as host because, think about it, what

would bug the Taliban more than seeing a gay
woman ina suit sur-
rounded by Jews? I
like to do my part.”

NBC’s White
House series “The
West Wing” nabbed
the Outstanding
Drama Series
Emmy, beating out
HBO’s “The Sopra-
nos” and NBC’s
“ER” among others.
“The West Wing”’s
Bradley Whitford
and Allison Janney also won in the support-
ing actor categories for drama.

Photo copywright CBS.com
“West Wing” named best drama

series at Emmy’s

“The Sopranos” earned TV husband and
wife James Gandolfini
and Edie Falco lead
acting honors (drama).
Gandolfini beat out fa-
vorite Martin Sheen,
"“The West Wing”’s
fictional president.
Falco’s main compe-
~_ tition was considered
to be her costar,
Lorraine Bracco.
“Sex and the
City” made history as
it become the first
cable program to be named Outstanding Com-
edy Series. Sarah Jessica Parker’s series

sense of hat is fair and what is honest.” She
calls working with him “an astonishing expe-
rience.”

At lunch on November 17, Ross Yockey
will read from On Any Given Day, and Ashley
Warlick will read from Fire in the Rock. Each
will talk briefly about Joe Martin and about
working with him, and will sign books after
the program. If Joe Martin is able, he will be
there, at least briefly, to receive the apprecia-
tion of his readers.

To learn more about this event and all the
happenings at Fall Conference, or to learn
more about the literary nonprofit North Caro-
lina Writers’ Network, call NCWN at (919)
967-9540, or visit its website at
www.ncwriters.org

Photo Copywright www.hbo.com

“Sex and the City”
named best comedy

triumphed over “Everybody Loves
Raymond,” “Frasier,” “Malcolm in the
Middle,” and “Will & Grace.”

Up against favorites like Kelsey
Grammer, John Lithgow, Ray Romano and
the young Frankie Muniz, Eric McCormack
from “Will & Grace” won for best actor in a
comedy series. Patricia Heaton was singled
out for her work on “Everybody Love
Raymond.” In the supporting actor/actress

_ categories (comedy), Doris Roberts (“Every-

body Loves Raymond”) and Peter MacNicol
(“Ally McBeal’) took home Emmys.
