vacuum after Taliban troops pulled out.

Protecting our way of life
requires military force

All kinds of ideas, opinions, and tensions
that always existed are being brought to the
surface due to the conflict in Afghanistan.
Tony Blair calls for the existence of a “new
world order” that includes a more globalized
system of government for all nations, Demo-
crats claim the
country now go-
ing to embrace
“strong fiscal
stewardship” and
Professor
Campbell can no
longer remain si-
lentas he calls our
national policy
“wrong, hypo-
critical, ineffec-
tive and counter-
productive.”

With Taliban
forces evacuating Kabul and neighboring
northern provinces, perhaps our policy isn’t
so ineffective. True, the Northern Alliance is
far from an ideal, democratic organization.
But it’s much more favorable to the United
States than the Taliban.

In other words, America’s foreign policy
of bombing in support of Northern Alliance
ground forces has been a tactical success so
far.

Professor Campbell’s appeal to the Chris-
tian foundations of this nation is also trou-
bling. One can argue back and forth using
Biblical references dealing with war and kill-
ing (e.g. the commandment actually states
“thou shalt not murder” as opposed to “kill’’).
I personally would have serious spiritual and
moral qualms about killing Afghanistan’s
population in an effort to punish the terror-
ists. Fortunately, the U.S. is not engaging in
some sort of deadly international retribution,
but rather a well-planned military campaign
in support of a nationalist group seeking to
overthrow what was essentially in its origina
puppet government.

As for the claim that America “‘is too big
and too free to defend from terrorism,” I
respond with the question, “What should our
response be?” Are we to bend to the terror-
ists’ demands? If you show that terror yields
results, history has shown that terror will
increase, not decrease. True, instead of at-
tacking the terrorists the United States could
make an attempt to reorder the societal insti-
tutions of every nation around the globe,
including those that do not pose a threat.

We could, in Tony Blair’s words, create a
new world order consisting of an outside
force dictating what is right and what is
wrong. That all sounds well and good, but

eh tk

Mike Galdo ‘04

what if an outside force did not like the
American legal system or disagreed with a
change of policy inside America?

What if it deemed America’s tax laws
unjust and a crime against humanity because
they do not establish free public health care
and a guaranteed source of income for every-
one?

Clearly, establishing some sort of interfer-
ing international order with power far beyond
the scope of the U.N. is a dangerous proposi-
tion.

Professor Campbell does bring up an inter-
esting point by mentioning the building of
fortresses along the U.S. coast to protect us
from Japan during World War II.

Taken by themselves, forts are obviously
ineffective deterrents against the mighty Japa-
nese navy. But once one understands their
role in the larger U.S. war policy, one sees
that the sense of security they provided was
well worth the cost. The government was not
only building coastal forts for military pur-
poses, but also to set the minds of Americans
at ease.

The best way to deal with an enemy who
has shown desire to kill and destroy a way of
life is to take the fight to him.

After achieving total victory over the op-
ponent, like the U.S. did over Japan and
Germany, we can then show mercy and aid in
the rebuilding of social institutions (just as
America did with Japan and the Marshall
Plan in Europe). Only after victory can pre-
ventative measures be implemented. One
cannot prevent a war that has already started.

The same can be said of our efforts against
the terrorists that started the war against the
U.S. on Sept. 11. Because the enemy does not
occupy a one specific land mass, its destruc-
tion is made more difficult. Nevertheless, the
basic war strategy laid outin WWII should be
implemented here: Force applied to a foe that
is willing to kill, then economic stimulation
and aid.

An appeal to the heart instead of the mind
has plagued American political life for years.
Our international policy should never be cruel,

but it should serve the people of America in

the best way possible. Part of that is through
extensions of American good will by state
and private means.

But it also requires a firm stance on defend-
ing America’s right to be “too big” and “too
free.”

Sometimes maintaining freedom requires
us to use force against those who would go to
any means to dictate how we live our lives.

Michael Galdo is a sophomore history
major with an interest in international poli-
tics.

‘Extend party hours? Get

your priorities in line

_ The first time I stepped on campus, I

- knew Davidson College was the place for me.

Now, however, I'am not so sure.

Two of the biggest reasons I chose
Davidson were its healthy focus on academ-
ics and its friendly, considerate atmosphere.
I turned down
several scholar-
ships to other ex-
cellent schools
in order toattend
Davidson, my
dream college.

[realize
it was inevitable
that some of my
“warm fuzzies” would be tempered by a
colder reality, but I wasn’t prepared for the
extent to which Davidson fosters a party
atmosphere at the expense of all else.

Though consideration and respect are
usually shown, quiet hours are an exception.
They are routinely disregarded, and any pro-
posal to extend these already lenient hours
alarms me. After talking with several people,
IknowI’mnotalone in feeling that extending
weekday party hours will probably translate
into a much-dreaded reduction of sleep for
the remaining students (especially those with
8:30 classes and/or early-morning sports prac-
tices).

we have lost sight of our priorities. I, for one,
didn’t come to this college merely for a “good
time.” While I agree that socialization is an
important part. of the college experience, I
don’t think it is the sole purpose of attending
college. Learning seems much more crucial.
It’s pretty hard to learn when you’re ex-
hausted ‘and grumpy because someone delib-
erately chose to be inconsiderate after they
returned from a party (and yes, it is deliber-
ate—who’s the one who knowingly chose to
get intoxicated enough to cause disruptive
behavior?)

Yet it’s not entirely the students’ fault.
Many authority figures tend to turn a blind
eye toward alcohol use, which seems hypo-
critical when the policy for every other kind
of illegal drug is “zero tolerance.” Perhaps
the serious problems associated with binge
drinking would decrease if underage drink-
ing were enforced according to the stated
policy.

I have no problem if people want to have
fun on the Court. However, some people
have repeatedly shown that they’re incapable
of having fun while respecting the rights of
others (not to mention the law). Extending
the party hours will only aggravate this prob- _
lem. If the main thing they want to do at
college is ‘party hearty’—every night—hey,
maybe they should try a different school.

I will be disappointed if the SGA passes

this proposal, for it would demonstrate that _ | Nicole Mah ‘04

J-Board might function
better if not so shrouded

I was invited to be a guest of SAE at the Judiciary Board hearing last week. To say that the
least, I was very honored when President Skylar Hoffman called me up. I have been writing
about J-Board for a year now, and until last week I didn’t have a clue what the thing was. I
went to PCC meetings, looked at the Web site, joined a fraternity, interviewed and asked
questions, but never really learned much about JBoard.

So when I got an invitation to a normally top-secret hearing,
it was basically like an offer to watch the Joint Chiefs in action
in Washington.

For me, this is the big time, because let’s face it, [ like to write
about the mischief that frat guys get into, no matter how big or
small. It’s interesting. And J-Board, as we know from this
year’s events, is a place where houses are either broken or
made stronger.

What I saw on Nov. 8, however, did not impress me. The
problem is that I can’t tell you why I am displeased because of
the confidentiality requirement. Going to the meeting was like
a blessing and curse. It’s real tough to be a big mouth, nosy
reporter when you aren’t even allowed to describe what you
see. I think a lot more people would catch my drift if they attended a hearing. (I am trying
my best to keep safe in this article, as I pledged my honor that I wouldn’t say anything specific.)
Though I know this particular case was rather weird, I still want to throw in my half a cent.

With all this said, I was displeased at the “ignorance” of the trial. And though I can’t back:
up my charge of ignorance with quotes and statements, let’s just say that I think key testimony
was left out and that SAE came out lucky.

Luckily though, this problem can be dicussed since it wasn’t during the trial. This ignorance
stems from the secret nature of the board. We are part of a very small and tight-knit
community, and it doesn’t take long for information to leak out to the public (at least as long
as I am around), so trying to keep the members of the board quiet and away from rumors is
an impossible job. So that surely can’t be the reason everyone is so tight-lipped.

It seems to me this attitude is taken because the Board wants to keep all the testimony from
leaking out, especially if it is rather damaging. But with our little school, the information will
get out no matter what, so why not let the right information out to at least clarify the situation?
It sure would clear up a lot people’s perception about this past trial, since no one is terribly
clear on the matter except the committee, SAE and me.

But I think the real problem lies in the readiness of the defendants who often come to the
hearing without a clue of what is going to happen. And since I can’t write about it and most
likely no one will get a chance to witness one, the organization at hand will be flying blind.

I'd like to suggest open hearings with at least PCC advisors invited so that the board is held
accountable to the rest of our peers. I think the pressure might get a few more engines
pumping.

The J-Board is still a good organization. It’s a committee of our peers who try to give us
a fair shot before we are shipped off to the Dean of Students. I criticize not to hate, but to give
advice, in my own hillbilly way. I just think J-Board’s secretive, shrouded nature has given

it the reputation of a mysterious smoke-filled room, where frats don’t come out stronger, but
go in and never come back out.

Tim Cook ‘04
