e

@ ALENDA LU

DAvIDSON COLLEGE

D

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2001

VoLuME 93, NUMBER 6

J-Board, Dean orders Kappa Sigma dry for year

Committee finds fraternity
guilty on three of four charges,
gives punishment of one-year
alchohol probation

By Timotuy Cook
Managing Editor

The brothers of Kappa Sigma will have to
find new ways to party for the rest of this year.

Last Wednesday, the Judicial Board ruled
that the fraternity will serve the rest of this
academic year as a dry house for both on and
off campus functions, for the charges of serv-
ing alcohol toaminor, playing drinking games

and serving alcohol from a common con-
tainer, in this case punch. The house was
found not guilty on the charge of serving
alcohol to an intoxicated person.

The charges spawned from an impromptu
party last month in which a first-year female
student was taken to the hospital after attend-
ing the party. Punch was being served in a
large tub while people were playing “Beirut,”
or “beer pong,” in the upstairs main room.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley has the
final say in matters of discipline on the court
but he concurred with the J-Board’s decision
and issued his approval on the Thursday after
the hearing.

Shandley could not be reached for com-
ment.

The J-Board is the judiciary committee

IN MEMORIAM

By Matr GARFIELD
Managing Editor

The cause of death is not yet available for
Virginia Logan, a Davidson junior who died
early Saturday morning in her off-campus
apartment.

A medical exam-
iner told College
President Bobby
Vagt that “nothing
was apparent,” but
an autopsy was per-
formed Monday.

As of Tuesday
night, the results
were unavailable.

Logan was trans-
ported by paramedics from her apartment at
Davidson Landing, located directly across
Interstate 77 from the school, to Lake Norman
Medical Center, where she was pronounced
dead.

Vagt and Dean of Students Tom Shandley
were notified of the death just after 7 a.m. on
Saturday. Vagt then called Logan’s family
to deliver the news.

Following school procedure, the student
counseling center and Residence Life Office
were notified and asked to provide help to

Logan

Junior dies Saturday morning

» that Logan had died of unknown causes.

students in need. Shandley also circulated a
campus-wide voice mail, informing students

Vagt said this isn’t the first death to occur
since he became president in July 1997, but
the first for an active student during a school
year. ~

He said he has spoken to the family about
the possibility of a campus memorial service
sometime in the coming days or weeks.

A funeral service will be held at Thursday
at 11 a.m. at St. Paul’s Episcopal Church in
Ivy, Va., near the family’s home in
Charlottesville.

Logan had not declared a major, but was
passionate about art.

Art professor Herb Jackson, Logan’s fac-
ulty adviser, remembers a quiet girl who held
a deep appreciation for the beauty of nature.

“She was a very special person with im-
mense ability,” he said.

“At the same time, she possessed a very
private side to her personality, such that
many people did not have the chance to
know her. Had she lived, she would have
contributed a great deal to the aesthetic life
of our campus.

“Virginia liked to paint images of trees—
their heads held high and their roots growing
deep. I will always remember her that way.”

comprised of a member from each house on
Patterson Court (except for the Black Student
Coalition) that hears disciplinary cases be-
fore it reaches the administration. The panel
hears from both a student solicitor and a
defense counsel about all the facts surround-
ing the case and then sends its verdict to
Shandley for approval.

Patterson Court Council Seargant-at-Arms
Mary Kat White ‘02, who acts as a mediator
for the J-Board, said that even though the
board decides issues on a case-by-case basis,
it knew that drinking games were being
stamped out by the administration.

J-Board panel member Trip Young ’03,
who was honor-bound not to release the rul-
ing until Shandley’s final verdict and the
board gave the go-ahead, said, ““ We issued
the ruling to show that the Court doesn’t need
alcohol to function.”

Patterson Court Council President Mat-
thew Arbuckle ’02 was pleased that Shandley
accepted the J-Board’s recommendation.

1G Car’ ON C

“T think that it does help relations between
the Dean of Students and Patterson Court
because it means that he trusts our decision
making and our maturity level in disciplining
our own.” Arbuckle said.

Kappa Sigma President Grant West ’02
agrees that the ruling was fair and that it could
have been worse because of the seriousness
of the violations.

“T think we messed up and the guys [of
Kappa Sigma] know that we messed up.”

The incident, which took place on the night
of September. 17 was not the first time that
Kappa Sig had been caught playing drinking
games in the house this year.

“We saw it coming,” said West, who sees
drinking games as a real problem on the
court.

“There are groups within each house where
some say follow the rules and there are others
who say don’t. One thing I have learned

see Kappa Sig, page 5

es ie

ay
&
&

Bill Giduz
THE WORLD’S LARGEST wiLpcat. Davidson’s latest addition arrived on

campus last week with the help of Physical Plant worker Ron Shirley
(left). The bronze statue, weighing 1,500 pounds and measuring 11
feet, was donated by Irwin Belk ’45, and will be installed in front of
Baker Sports Complex later this year. A dedication ceremony is

scheduled for this fall.

Renowned landscape photographer Ken Duncan will visit Davidson on Oct. 17 to promote his latest
collection of panoramic photgraphy, America Wide. See Arts &Living, page 6, for full coverage

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-5

Some students are displeased with re-
cent price increases in the Union Cafe.
See story, page 2.

Arts & Living 6
Chef Martha returns with another de-
lectable delight.

Perspectives 7-8
Bricks, bricks everywhere. Why all
the bricks? See story, page 9.

Sports 9-12
Football falls to Morehead State, 28-
17. See page 12.

