THE DAVIDSONIAN
-WEDNEspDay,
SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

‘Welcome to Martha’s Kitchen, the newest A&L feature
“It’s a good thing.”

By Martua Hunt
Arts and Living Editor

Sick of Commons? Had your fill of fries
and quesadillas? Is your stomach on strike?
Once again, Arts &Living comes to the res-
cue with its latest concoction, a new place for
all you culinarily-challenged folks to hang
out.

On a somewhat regular basis, join moi,
Martha, your happy Arts &Living editor, for
a trés simple take on dorm cooking. Did I
mention delicious?

And by the way, anyone with the first name
of Martha and the last name of Stewart is an
impostor. Cooking with Martha (Hunt) is the
real deal.

So, let’s get the woks sizzling and the bundt
pans brimming.

Hey, wait a minute. In my zeal to offer the
very latest in tantalizing flavors, I forgot that
we as college students are constrained to the

most primitive of utilities when cooking. No
fear! Limits give creativity free reign. And if
there’s one thing I’d
say, it’s be creative.
As long as you don’t
turn your room into a
torch, have fun with
any food at your dis-
posal. That’s how this
week’s edible equation
came into being. A
little of this, a little of
that, and voila! A won-
derful fajita pizza.

Needed to make
this work...

Soft taco shells,
burritos, fajitas - you

‘know, like the multi-

colored ones they use in the cafeteria for
wraps.

American victory requires steadfastness: a

When the newest films are duds, it’s time to
commentary on recent events from USAF ?
y visit the nearest Blockbuster. Check out

Derek’s top pick for this week:

Dear A&L readers: My grandfather is a
retired Colonel in the US Army. He sent the
following tome via email. My co-editor (Derek
Loh) and I felt it was especially appropriate
as ameans of showing our support for America
at this time. We hope that you are challenged
by Dr. Kern’s words, and strengthened by the
resolve of American people across the coun-
try. God bless.

- Martha Hunt, Arts and Living Editor

14 September, 2001

Dear friends and fellow Americans,
Like everyone else in this great country, Iam
reeling from last week’s attack on our sover-’
eignty. But unlike some, I am not reeling
from surprise. As a career soldier and a
student and teacher of military history, [have
a different perspective and I think you should
hear it. This war will be won or lost by the
American citizens, not diplomats,
politicians or soldiers, Let me briefly éxplain.
In spite of what the media, and even our own
government is telling us,
this act was not committed by a group of
mentally deranged fanatics. To dismiss them
as such would be among the gravest of mis-
takes. This attack was committed by a fero-
cious, intelligent and dedicated adversary.
Don’t take this the wrong way. I don’t admire
these men and I deplore their tactics, but I
respect their capabilities. The many parallels
that have been made with the Japanese attack
on Pearl Harbor are apropos. Not only be-
cause it was a brilliant sneak attack against a
complacent America, but also because we \
may well be pulling our new adversaries out
of caves 30 years after we think this war is
over, just like my father’s generation had to
do with the formidable Japanese in the years
following WW II. These men hate the United
States with all of their being, and we must not
underestimate the power of their moral com-
mitment. Napoleon, perhaps the world’s great-
est combination of soldier and statesman,
stated “the moral is to the physical as three is
to one.” Patton thought the Frenchman un-
derestimated its importance and said moral

conviction was five times more important in
battle than physical strength. Our enemies are
willing — better said anxious — to give their
lives for their cause. How committed are we
America? And for how long? In addition to
demonstrating great moral conviction, the
recent attack demonstrated a mastery of some
of the basic fundamentals of warfare taught to
most military officers worldwide, namely
simplicity, security and surprise. When I first
heard rumors that some of these men may
have been trained at our own Air War Col-
lege, it made perfect sense to me. This was
not a random act of violence, and we can
expect the same sort of military competence
to be displayed in the battle to come. This war
will escalate, with a good portion of it hap-
pening right here in the good ol’ U.S. of A.
These men will not go easily into the night.
They do not fear us. We must not fear them.

Thomas E. Fi paki, TIME.com
NY firefighters erect US flag
over WTC rubble

In spite of our overwhelming conventional
strength as the world’s only “superpower” (a
truly silly term), we are the underdog in this
fight. As you listen to the carefully scripted
rhetoric designed to prepare us for the march

(see “Commentary” next page)

Not to be confused with other
culinary marvels named Martha

Helpful, it’s up to you...

Tomato sauce (thicker is better)
Shredded cheese (you choose the flavor)
Anything else is
up to you. I'll show
you how to make
the classic fajita
pizza, but honestly,
whatever you feel
like throwing on
that burrito can go.

Warn the
roomies. Here
we go...

1. Pull out
that burrito and slap
it on a flat baking
sheet. Make sure
you’ ve preheated an

oven to 375. For those of you stuck in dorms
and unwilling to trek to the nearest kitchen;

By Derek Lou

Arts and Living Co-Editor

It’s almost October and the best movie
I’ve seen this year was released way back
in March. Many considered last year as
the worst ever for film. But didn’t we
have movies like The Virgin Suicides,
Wonder Boys, High Fidelity, and The
Color of Paradise even before the
summer season started? And this year we
only have one great film that opened
before May. And no, it is not Memento,
that overly appreciated, yet immensely
fun, gimmick of a movie.

Patrice Leconte’s
The Widow of St.
Pierre is one of
those movies you
see and enjoy. You
love the beautiful
cinematography,
particularly the
striking shot of a
pink flower on a
muddy road. You
laugh, feel a little
sad at times, and
have a good movie-
going experience. And then on the way
home, the wheels in your head begin to
turn. The Widow of St. Pierre is an
astonishingly complex study of marriage,
love, and community. And somehow, it
also manages to be the most convincing
cinematic case against capital punishment
that I have seen. (Déad Man Walking and
Paths of Glory may be better films, but
they’re not really about the death penalty

anyway.)

Juliette Binoche
Auteuil

One night in a French Canadian fishing
town, two drunken men wander away
from a pub, and one of them, Neel (Emir
Kusturica), commits a senseless murder.
He is condemned to death by the guillo-
tine, but the town has no guillotine, and
must wait for one to arrive from a French
colony in the Caribbean.

just follow the steps minus the oven and eat it.
cold. Hey, it still tastes good.

2. Get a big spoon and spread some tomato
sauce on the burrito. Add pizazz with cheese
by sprinkling it over the sauce. It helps to go
a little light on the cheese, but experiment to
find out how much you like.

3. Throw that Italian burrito into the oven,
and let it sit for about 15 min. The basic idea
is to get it heated up, but not to set it on fire.
So keep an eye on it. When the cheese starts
to puff up and turn brown, it’s getting close.
Less than 15 minutes, it’ll be a soft pizza.
Fifteen minutes or more, it’Il have a terrific
crunch. Once again, adjust to satisfy your
particular taste. Try slicing some mushrooms
and peppers and adding them on the cheese,
or use barbecue sauce instead of tomato.

That’s it! So simple. And you thought
you’d starve in the senior apartments. Make
some pizzas for your friends, have fun, and
keep that fire extinguisher close at hand.

The town’s captain (Daniel Auteuil) and
his wife (Juliette Binoche) play host to
the condemned and their becomes a sort
of death row. A wonderful, bizarre,
platonic and, at the same time, semi-
sexual relationship develops between the
murderer and the captain’s wife. And
this relationship, it seems, only strength-
ens the captain’s marriage. Le Capitaine
and Madame La, the affectionate name
by which the Binoche character goes, are
an anomaly in the cinematic world: their -
marriage is one of the few that is bounded
by true love, not
by legalities or
societal expecta-
tions. It is this
strength that
allows for the
relationship
between Madame
La and Neel.
Jealousy is
foreign to Le
Capitaine, and,

yahoo.com " :
and Daniel luckily, trust is the
only thing
Madame La
knows.

The Widow of St. Pierre is a beautiful,
smart, and human story. And because of
its realism, it seems to violate the
tradition of Leconte’s previous films,
which are almost all steeped in’ over-the-
top melodrama. Really, though, Thie
Widow of St. Pierre is no different from
Leconte’s other work. Le Capitaine’s
and Madame La’s marriage is so extraor-
dinary, so oddly perfect that it fits nicely
with Leconte’s other characters. But
never is it extraordinary to the point of
nonsense, The Widow of St. Pierre
compliments Leconte’s previous film,
Girl on the Bridge — a ridiculous,
melodramatic, absurd, and great movie —
wonderfully. Both films are available at
most video stores, including the Block-
buster in Cornelius.

