Damage to property 2/3/01

Officer discovered damage to the stop sign
at the intersection of Glasgow near the Alumni
house. The sign had been removed from the
ground and was lying in the yard of the
‘Alumni house.

Damage to property 2/3/01

Officer observed a “Do Not Enter” sign
lying in the roadway near Belk residence hall.
The sign was pulled from the ground and
broke apart by unknown person(s). The sign
is valued at approximately $50.

Alcohol violation 2/3/01

Subject was issued an alcohol violation for
underage consumption of a malt beverage.
(This incident has been forwarded to the judi-
cial officer for review.

Alcohol violation 2/3/01

Subject was issued an alcohol violation for
consuming a malt beverage while checking
Ids at a party at Turner House. This incident
has been forwarded to the judicial officer for
review.

’

For 1/31/01 -2/06/01

Alcohol violation 2/3/01

2 subjects were issued alcohol violations
near Ridge Road and the IMAC field for
underage consumption of a malt beverage.
This incident has been forwarded to the judi-
cial officer for review.

Fictitious driver’s license 2/3/01

Officer stopped a vehicle that was leaving
the IMAC field near Ridge Road. Further
investigation revealed the driver was in pos-
session of a fictitious driver’s license. The
driver’s license was confiscated.

Assault 2/4/01

Complainant stated that the suspect as-
saulted ‘him because of a dispute regarding
the unauthorized use of a phone card. The
complainant sustained several injuries and
was transported to a.local hospital for treat-
ment.

The suspect was interviewed and state-
ments were.taken. This incident has been
forward to the judicial officer for review.

|

_ more, And get ready to sweat a little.

confidence, pride,

grit]
| 2 and plenty of time
to shower before calculus.

in Army ROTC, you'll get to do some pretty challenging stuff,
Stuff that builds character and discipline. Not to.mention
muscles, You'll also learn how to think on your feet and be

a good leader. Ta/k to your Army ROTC advisor to find out

offer campus post office

By JessicA MERING
News Editor

Hiking across Main Street to retrieve mail
might not be a long trek, but plenty of stu-
dents find it inconvenient to leave campus
and go to the post office. This hassle will be
over soon. Beginning in the fall, full postal
services will be available in the Knobloch
Campus Center.

The new post office will house all student
mailboxes as well as provide all of the same
mailing options that the Davidson post office
does.

According to Jane Biggerstaff, Central Ser-
vices Coordinator, it will be a contract station
of the United States Postal Service and will
function as any post office does, but will be
staffed by Davidson employees. “Two addi-
tional full-time employees will be hired to
assist in the processing of student mail and
the operation of the campus post office,” said
Beth Covington, Director of Purchasing. Mail
will still filter through the town post office
before the campus post office receives it.

The new post office will have two addi-
tional advantages that are currently unavail-
able. UPS and FedEx packages will be defiv-
ered here, so all incoming parcels will be

_ available in one place. Also, mailboxes will

be included in tuition costs, so students will
not have to pay an additional fee to receive
mail.

According to William Brown, Director of
the College Union, planners of the current
Grey College Union had hoped to put a post
office in it. At the last minute, however, the

2 O

WILDCAT HANDBOOK

Usher in the Class of 2005!
Be the next EDITOR of the
WILDCAT HANDBOOK!

You will work with the Dean of Students Office and

_ College Communications staff this summer to give
incoming freshmen their first look at Davidson and each

other. Get great working experience, expand your

portfolio, and have an impact on the class of 2005.

_ REQUIREMENTS: FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE,
PROXIMITY TO DAVIDSON DURING SUMMER ‘0
- GOOD WRITING SKILLS, |
SOME EXPERIENCE WITH LAYOUT AND DESIGN.

Interested? Apply by letter including your qualifications and
reasons why you want to be the next Wildcat handbook editor
to Dean Leslie Marsicano by February 23.

post office was cut from the final design. Ever
since plans for the campus center began ten
years ago, however, a post office has topped
the list of necessary components. President
Bobby Vagt has championed a vision of this
sort of multi-functional center for the last
several years. “We are so excited about this
whole project, particuarly about the Peet of-
fice,” said-Brown.

The new location should contribute to high
usage of the campus center. “Food, the book-
store and the post office are really major
draws for everyone. We are anxious to have
ahigh traffic area so the campus center serves
as areal gathering place,” commented Brown.
“Students will be in the union anyway. It will

be nice to pick up mail, go over to the snack

bar, sit down and read the mail,” said
Biggerstaff.

While students will appreciate the conve-
nience, the Davidson post office will also
benefit from the new facility. According to
Elaine Funderburk, Postmaster, the town post
office will be more productive once student
patronage stops. “We love having the stu-
dents, but the crowd tends to converge all at’
once, like at lunch or after school, and causes
lines to back up. This will also help the
building last longer. We’re outgrowing this
one, and losing so many box spaces will
help,” she said.

The new location of the post office is just
one more step in making the campus center a
focal point of student life. “We are far better
able to be a real community center when
people are present because of normal, daily
programs,” noted Brown.

O 1

