By Co in EaGAN
_ Staff Writer

No help from the Supreme Court needed
here—thanks to the latest in Internet voting,
the first round of 2001Category II election

. results at Davidson are both precise and final.
Made possible by the SGA and Information
Technology Services (ITS), the successful
debut of online candidate selection has elimi-
nated margin of error and increased voter
turnout campus-wide.

When the polls closed at eight o’clock p.m.
on Monday, a total of 910 students had regis-
tered their votes electronically, constituting
54.2% of the student body. Votes were cast
for candidates for over a dozen positions,
including President and Vice Presidents for
the SGA and Union Board, Activities Tax
Council chairs, and various Trustee Commit-
tee and Honor Council seats. Greatest turn-
out over the twelve-hour voting period was
held by the Junior class with 68.9% of their
class (224 students) while poorest turnout
came from Seniors with 26.6% (119 stu-
dents).

“In terms of the effect of Internet voting, I

have to say that it was dramatic to say the
least,” said Elections Coordinator Randy
Skattum’01, who has worked extensively with
John Casey and Ruth Bratton of ITS to bring
E-voting to Davidson. “In comparison, for
- Category I Elections, our. most popular elec-
tion, we only had 595 people voting, whereas
[Monday] 910 people voted. To make an
even more appropriate comparison, as Cat-
egory I did not include seniors, the Category
II Elections from last year caused 543 stu-

Harris,
from page I

and Pittenger were present along with candi-
dates for SGA vice president, UCA vice
president and Union Board vice president.
“I'd be lying if I said that I wasn’t nervous
going into it,” Harris recalled. “I had no idea
what kind of questions they were going to
ask, and that made it more difficult. But I
knew that if I stuck to my game plan and
stayed within.

myself, 'd i
do fine and ™
thatisexactly =
what _hap-
pened.”

As ‘Harris
pointed outin
the debate, he
has much po-
litical experi-
ence to bring
to the job of
president.
Most _re-
cently, he
served as
SGA Vice
President,
and served as
Class Presi-

dents to: come out. Comparing that to this
year’s first day of elections, that’s a 67.6%
increase over last year for the first day of
elections.”

And if the numbers aren’t convincing
enough, any number of students on campus
will be happy to relay the benefits of this
weeks’ E-voting process.

“E-voting is great!” exclaimed Michael
Megison’04. “It allows you to vote any time,
anywhere. Heck, I voted in the middle of
math class.”

“It was definitely a lot easier to do!”’ of-
fered Emily Chaffin’03.

“A very good idea” commented Nejib

Mohammed’01. “I wish they had had it when

I came here as a freshman!”
Dean of Students Tom Shandley shares

‘students’ enthusiasm. “I thought the process

was terrific,” he stated. “Student comments
seemed to be supportive, the participation
was up and there were no conflicts that I am
aware of. A huge thanks needs to go out to
Elections Co-Coordinator Randy Skattum and
John Casey and Ruth Bratton in ITS.”

The brainchild of several dedicated mem-
bers of the SGA and the Elections Council,
online voting has been in the works at David-
son since October of last year. The SGA
passed aresolution by Kevin Epps’03, Bobby
Pittenger’02, and Randy Skattum, stating that
voter turnout could be dramatically increased
if students could vote over the Internet. It
asked ITS to make the implementation of E-
voting a priority. John Casey, who was un-
available for comment, and his staff devel-

SGA President: Joey Harris
Union Board President: Will Parker

Review Board: James Davidson

Election Results

Union Board Vice President, Social Chair: PJ Martin

Union Board Vice President, Co-Curricular Chair: Adam Hill
Trustee Committee, Byildings and Grounds: Kevin James
Trustee Committee, Fittance and Budget: Dod Fraser

Trustee Committee, Athletic Policy: Mike Anderson

United Community Action President: Carrie Frazier

United Community Action Vice President: Rachel Smith
Student Conduct Council: Adam Hill and Catherine Tucker
Student Solicitors: Trevor Stanley and Andy Wright

Defense Advisors: Evan Anderson and Caroline Cunningham

Runoffs for additional offices will be held Wednesday, February 7

oped the pro-
gram to record
and tabulate
student votes
online.

With the goal
of increased
voter turnout
clearly met, it
would appear
the hard work
has paid off.
“Overall, the
students
seemed to em-
brace the
Internet voting
system, both as
a participating
voters and as

new President as “A great friend. I’ve been
honored to compete against him for this spot.
He and I have known each other since high
school, and I am crazy about the guy.”

And Harris certainly returns the favor.
“Bobby and I met as rising seniors in high
school and have been good friends ever since”
he reflected. “That fact has made this elec-
tion very difficult in many ways. But Iam so
proud of the way that we have both kept the
competition healthy and cordial. He has been
supportive of my efforts throughout the cam-
paign as I
have his.
- Andcreditto
wour class-
mates, if I
had to
choose be-
tween Bobby
and myself, I
would havea
difficult time
as well.”

Upon re-
flecting on
the election,
Harris draws
to mind all
those who
have helped
him up to the
top. “I have

ieeeeeneee

dent in his Joey Harris discusses his plans for the 47" #2"k to thank ev-

freshmanand presidency.
sophomore

years. In his
platform, Harris has stressed the need to
make the SGA more accessible and user-
friendly to students, and wants to see a firmer
commitment of the association to community
service. He desires that the president encour-
age the discussion of campus problems and
issues, and wants to serve as a “true voice for
the Davidson community.” Specific projects
in the upcoming months include the buying
of new charcoal grills on campus for student
use.
__ Harris’ accomplishments have earned him
the respect of Pittenger, who describes the

eryone who

took the time

to vote,” he
said. “Without them, this process wouldn’t
work. I also want-to thank everyone who has
supported me and sent me notes and phone
calls of encouragement all week.” Harris
wishes to extend special gratitude to his hall,
4th Watts, and partner hall counselor Elder
Gwin’02, as well as Wright and the ladies of
Second Little who “made it their objective
this week to get me elected.”

With the campaign and election behind
him, Harris plans to use this week to catch up
on his sleep. He also said he plans to “play
eighteen holes of golf as soon as possible.”

candidates,”

ternet voting increases voter participation

said Skattum. “Also, students were impressed
with the ease of use in terms of Internet voting
and the accessibility to even those students
who are currently abroad.”

And yet E-voting cannot steal all of the
credit; large turnout this week would not have
been possible without the work of a dedicated
Elections Council, consisting of Skattum,
Laura McDonnell’01, Ian Willoughby’03,
and Jason Scott’04. Members of the council
have labored hard to broadcast the candidates
and the election itself through various ven-
ues, including the preparation of a successful
candidate debate, the creation of a ‘Meet the
Candidates’ brochure and Web sight, and the
posting of hundreds of reminders to vote— -
both on e-mail and on the walls.

Of course some voters still felt out of the
loop. “Aw, you mean the voting is over?”
inquired an obviously uninformed Hak Shin
Park’ 04 when asked to reflect on his E-voting
experience. “How was I supposed to know?
E-mail? No one checks that, man.”

In any event it would appear E-voting is
here to stay. “I was very pleased with the
enormous turnout with the new Internet vot-
ing,” noted Pittenger. “I am just glad that
more people were given the time and the
chance to exercise the right to vote.”

And, at the very least, with the advent of
voting in the safety of dorms, pushing and
shoving in line at the voting tables in Com-
mons and Chambers seems to be a thing of the
past. “I will admit that I missed the usual
Jevel of excitement in the Chambers hallway
with students voting in person,” reflected
Shandley. “But I may have been the only one
who did!” Voting by computeris, after all, as
quiet as a mouse.

Excitement is spreading throughout Max & Erma’s
as we are getting ready to open our newest loca-
tion, right here in Huntersville! We now have more
than 50 restaurants throughout the nation, featuring a highly successful
combination of fun-loving people and delicious food within a casual, promote-
from-within environment. If you'te a high-energy person with a sense of
purpose — and a sense of humor — join us in one of the following positions:

WATT STAG

’ DISHWASHERS

PREP & LINE COOKS
BUS PERSONNEL (@

Full & Part-Time Positions Available!

In addition to a great starting wage, we offer a dining discount for all
associates and immediate health care enrollment, paid vacation,-and 401K
enrollment for fulltime associates. Please apply in person MF between 9am
& Spm or Saturday between 10am & 2pm at the Max & Erma's hiring
trailer: MAX & ERMA'S, 8700 Sam Furr, Huntersville, NC 28078.
Ph: 704-895-9994, Fax: 704-895-4442, Equal Opportunity Employer

Max P Erma

BAR & GATHERING PLACE

RE
a
www.maxandermas.com

f
UNce °
a)

9. ®

&

