DAVIDSON COLLEGE .

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 2001

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 15

Harris succeeds Erickson at top SGA post

By Co in EAGEN
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association now
has a new leader as a result of Monday’s
Category II elections. Former Vice-President
Joey Harris ’02 was elected SGA President.

Harris won the majority in the Monday
election that boasted a record 54.2% student
voter turn out on. The twelve-hour debut of
Internet voting on campus ended a long week
of intense campaigning by Harris and oppo-
nent junior Class President Bobby Pittenger
for the SGA presidential seat. “It feels great
to finally have all of this campaigning behind
me,” Harris said. “Win or lose, I was just
ready for the waiting to be over!”

With two strong candidates, the campaign
was rigorous. Harris’s winning approach
was, “Just being myself. I did not want to

_ over-campaign, which is always a danger in

a high profile campaign like this one, but I
also didn’t want it to seem like I didn’t care.”
With assistance from dozens of friends, both
old and new, the Columbia, South Carolina

native set out to assure the students that he ~

was the right one for the job. “I put up a lot
of fliers and that was great in getting to know
the freshmen and some of the upperclassmen
that I didn’t know,” Harris continued. “Word
of mouth, I think, did it more than anything

else, and stressing my experience and accom-

plishments whenever folks asked me why
they should vote for me was key. Also, I went
around to most of the houses, which was a
good move as well. But all jin all, I was
myself, which is important in any type of
campaign.”

And Harris’ s original zeal was infectious.
As his campaign manager Eliza Wright’04

Noted author shares views
on literature and politics

By Brent Byars
Staff Writer

Some 34 years ago, novelist Tim O’ Brien
was in much the same position as this year’s
graduating class. Graduating college summa
cum laude and winning a full graduate fel-
lowship to study at Harvard, O’Brien was

“sure to have a future in whatever field he
chose.

Unlike this year’s seniors, however, the
United States of O’ Brien’s youth was at war.
Drafted to Vietnam, and to a war that he later
called “a wrong war,” O’Brien’s future was
irrevocably altered. The conflict between a
young man’s conscience and a community’s
expectations later formed the basis for some
of O’Brien’s most compelling fiction.

Avid fans of the war novel, Vietnam War
scholars and modern literature critics alike
hold up Tim O’Brien as one of our nation’s
most important novelists. He published his
first novel, Jf 1 Die in a Combat Zone, to

critical acclaim shortly after returning from _

Vietnam. In 1979, Going After Cacciato, a
novel about a soldier who goes AWOL and
the journey he takes, won the National Book
Award in Fiction. Jn the Lake of the Woods
was anational bestseller, and was proclaimed
the best novel of 1994 by Time Magazine.
The Things They Carried, which presents
fiction as fact and turns traditional values. of
reality and truth on their heads, was a finalist
for the Pulitzer Prize and is currently under
study by freshman and sophomores in Liter-

- News
Briefly —
Arts & Living
Perspectives

Sports

eo 2 A Nn =

ary Analysis classes offered by the English
department.

Now 51 years old, O’Brien continues to
write about Vietnam. He has recently agreed
to speak at several colleges partly, he says, to
meet to talk to people from different back-
grounds. The Literary Arts Committee and
the Departments of English and History spon-

. sored his visit to Davidson.

Ben Carter, Vice Chair of the Literary Arts
Committee, opened O’Brien’s reading

College Communications

Wednesday night in the words of Tim O’ Brien,
advising the audience to “look behind the
fact” and not to “substitute fact for truth,
knowledge for wisdom.” His figure diminu-

‘tive behind the massive lectern at Love Audi-

torium, O’ Brien took the stage with an apol-
ogy for the profanity he was about to use. He
explained that writing about such a topic as
Vietnam was for him “extremely hard to
write, extremely personal.” O’Brien then
read stories from The Things They Carried

see O’Brien, page 3

explained, “Joey Harris is a genuine person
who cares about people and their concerns.
Davidson students trust Joey to represent
them effectively in SGA. With his dynamic
personality and firm dedication, he has paved
the way for many great changes on this cam-
pus. Voters knew they could rely on Joey to
be an effective leader.”

President Dane Erickson ‘01

SGA President Joey Harris 02 (left) is congratulated by outgoing

“He has some great ideas,” noted Evan
Mayer’ 04.

Harris’s participation in Sunday’s Election
Council candidate debate, which included a
question and answer session, only solidified
his popularity with the student body. Harris

see Harris, page 4

Aaron Houck

DIA, FIJI await Vagt’s de-
cision on Union Outpost

By Linpy BALDwin
Staff Writer

Despite delays in construction and debates
over its future, the Outpost will soon vacate
its home on Patterson Court for a spot in the

_new Knobloch Campus center. The decision
about what to do with the new space on the
Court is now in the hands of President Bobby
Vagt.

The fate of the Outpost’ s old building came
one step. closer to being decided, however,
when the Council on Campus and Religious
Life endorsed the Davidson International
Association’s petition to move in when the
Outpost moves out.

The CCRL, a presidential advisory com-
mittee composed of students, faculty and
staff, heard three different proposals for the
Outpost’s future before deciding to endorse
DIA. According to Joey Harris, a student
representative on the CCRL, Phi Gamma
Delta (Fiji) also put in a bid for the house.

The third idea came from a group of stu-
dents who suggested keeping it an open space.
It would be available to any organization who
wanted to use it, the way the Union confer-
ence rooms are.

After hearing arguments from all sides, the
CCRL voted to endorse DIA’s petition. For
Harris, DIA’s most persuasive argument cen-
tered on the idea of diversity. “The Davidson
mission statement indicates a commitment to

diversity,” he explained, and it was difficult.

to deny a petition from an organization de-
voted to diversity and student education, es-
pecially since DIA’s LTS members “have no
space to call their own.” :

# DIA president Shalini Vonikvishons, 01,

‘described DIA’s reaction to the vote as

“thrilled and excited,” not the least because
of the encouraging words the organization
received during the meeting. “We knew we
needed CCRL support,” she explained. “We
know it’s not the end, but we’re extremely
excited.”

Unnikrishnan said DIA (formerly the In-
ternational Student Association) has been

* see Outpost, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Internet voting

After much planning and programming, all agreed
that the debut of internet voting was a success. This
year’s first day of Category II elections showed a
marked increase in voter participation.

NEws page 4

Voice your views

Given the success of internet voting, Sophomore
Kevin Epps hopes to use anew “online forum” to help
the SGA and adminsitrators stay in touch with the
issues important to students.

News page 5

Cyan slides

Dr. Michael Toumazou made a rare find about his |
favorite topic, his native country of Cyprus, in the
strangest of places. His discovery now graces the
walls of the VAC’s Smith Gallery.

Arts.& Livinc page 6

Not on my time

With all the talk about building community, could
an institutionalized community hour really make a
difference?

PERSPECTIVES PAGE 8

