¥

Junior Janna Magette scored 26
_ points in the second half.

Golf reorganizes
for 2001 under
Coach Straub

By TyLerR REED

Staff Writer

The face of the Wildcat golf team has been
transformed in the last five months. After the
retirement of former head hoach Joe Mark at
the end of last spring, the new coach, Tim

Straub, has completely reshaped the orga-
nization of the program. Straub shrunk the
size of the squad, organized an effective
practice routine, and enacted a more vigorous
workout schedule than the team had previ-
ously seen.

The men’s golf team has never had it so
tough, but they all know it’s the kick in the
pants that will bring the low scores. A team
of nearly twenty players a year ago now exists
as less a squad of less than fifteen—and only
one senior graduated.

In August, all golfers wishing to be a part
of the team, including those previously on the
squad, were required to tryout. Twelve play-
ers survived, including team captain Sean
Davidson and returning sophomore Ben
Friedell, who would lead the team to a fall
season full of ups and downs.

For many of the players the greater time
commitment and the more rigorous physical
side of the program has made them prioritize
their time out of the classroom. Players are
required to be present on the track at 7 a.m.
Tuesdays and Thursdays for morning work-
outs each week. All practice rounds count
toward qualifying for tournaments. There is
no messing around.

“Tt is a much more business-like and pro-
fessional atmosphere,” said Friedell. “And
you better earn your keep.”

Such commitment is expected to lead to

greater focus and, as a result, improved per-
formance. This spring brings the return of
three’ men from abroad, including Oliver
Cross, last season’s Most Valuable Player,,.
This spring’s team has a potentially strong
core of young faces and experienced leaders.
With dedication and commitment at a peak,
this season’s golf team is sure to compete
with more success than ever.

Said Friedell,“The bar has been raised, and
I expect it to continue to be raised every
year.”

s 28 points lead

s Filar earns 100th career victory

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

After a four houfbus ride back from Johnson
City, Tenn., Janna Magette walked into Belk
Arenaon Saturday
night and heaved
an joyous sigh of
relief.

Her Wildcats
had earned a cru-
cial conference
victory over East
Tennessee State University that afternoon,
opening a ray of hope in a season that had
long since seemed lost.

“This win brings a lot of promise,” said
Magette. “This has given us a renewed spirit
going into the second half.”

“That was a big a morale booster as we’ ve
ever had,” said head coach John Filar. “We’re
on a little bit of a roll.”

Magette led the way with a career-best 28
points (26 of them in the second half)—the 5-
8 junior guard shot nailed 10 of 17 shots on

' the night, including five or nine from behind

the three-point arc, ;

“Talk about turning it on when your team
really needs it,” noted Filar. “It was one of her
best performances I’ve ever seen.”

The win marked Filar’s 100" career vic-
tory—a remarkable achievement for a coach
who has literally built a program from the
ground up over the past decade. His squads
averaged 15 wins a year over the latter half of
the ‘90s.

But more importantly, the victory gave the
Wildcats new hope as Round Two of South-
ern Conference play commenced,

The Wildcats finished the first half of the
18-game conference season just 1-8. But few
forget the remarkable turnaround that~last
year’s Davidson squad mounted.

After dropping seven of their first nine
conference games, the Jen O’ Brien-led Cats
went6-3 in the second round, tied for tops in
the league.

“That kind of turnaround comes with a
team coming together and playing as a unit,”
Magette said. ““We’re a young team and it’s
taken a little time to get used to each other on

During Saturday’s men’s basketball
game against Furman, Davidson will
inducted three ie and a longtime
Sports Information Director into its Hall
of Fame.

Emit W. Parker reported on Davidson
athletics as its Sports Information Director
for nearly the last third of the 20th century.
He began his thirty-one year stint on Janu-

season in which Davidson was nationally
ranked and advanced to the elite eight of the
NCAA Tournament. He covered 308 foot-

games during his tenure, while producing
more than 1,200 brochures and programs,
and writing over 15,000 press releases.
Parker passed away July 11, 2000, slightly
more than a year after retiring from his post.

Cures L. “Mike” Witiams 749 was a
multi-sport star for the Wildcats, participat-
ing in basketball, football, and tennis. In
basketball, he played four seasons (1944,
°47, ’48,’49) and was co-captain for two
years. In football, he played three seasons
(1943, 47,48) and he was amember of the
tennis team. for two years (1947, ’48). He
was named All-State in basketball and was

a third team All-Southern Conference se-
lection.

Four inducted into Hall of Fame

ary 3, 1968, in the middle of the basketball |

ball games and more than 800 basketball ©

GreG Wu.cox ‘90 holds a list of David-
son career records, including most wins
(33), most strikeouts (379), most strikeouts
inagame (17), most innings pitched (386.1),
most games started (56), and best winning
percentage (.687—-33 wins, 15 losses). He
also is tied for second in appearances (62),
tied for second in shutouts (2), tied for ninth
incomplete games (15), and eighth in earned
run average (3.59). Wilcox also holds four
single season records for the Wildcats, in-
cluding most wins (12), most strikeouts
(125), most starts (18), and most innings
pitched (117.1).

Craic WALL ’59 was a top-notch end on
the football team and a captain his senior
year, helping Davidson post winning sea-
sons in each of his four years on the squad.
No other class has accomplished this feat
since. As a junior, he led the ‘Cats in receiv-
ing and scoring with twenty-four receptions
for 446 yards and six touchdowns, and snared
atotal of fifty-six passes for 773 yards while
reaching the end zone ten times during his
gridiron career. Wall continued to remain
close to Davidson throughout his life and
was one of the college’s most influential and
devoted alumni, serving as chairman of the

Board of Trustees from 1989 until he passed

‘away on March 5, 1997.

Wrestling grabs sixth win

Davidson splits dual meet, defeating UNC
Pembroke while falling to Howard

By Mike CLARK
Sport Information

In a rare home meet, the Davidson wres-
tling team won for the sixth time this season,
defeating UNC Pembroke, 26-15. The Cats
(6-6) also took on Howard University, but
fell 25-12. In the other dual match of the day,
Howard downed UNC Pembroke, 28-12.

Junior Ryan Owens (157 pounds) got the
Wildcats off to an early lead against UNC
Pembroke with a 14-7 decision over Benji
Rorie. Junior Jeff Libersat put Davidson up
by eight points with a technical fall over

Luciano Vera. Freshman Steve Root (133)
gave the Cats the lead for good. with an 11-5
decision over David Nobles. At 141 pounds,
sophomore Grant Doornbos earned his sec-
ond fall of the year, pinning Derrick Pierce
2:17 into the first period.

_ The two other winners for Davidson were
seniors Dan Carman (125) and Anthony Albert
(149). In Davidson’s first meet of the day,
only three wrestlers were able to muster wins.
Junior Jeff Bender picked up his 13th victory
of the season with a 5-2 decision over Stevens
Carter. Libersat stopped James Blanton 10-4
and Carman won by forfeit.

ady Wildcats to win over ETSU

the court. I don’t think we have much of a
choice (but to repeat last year’s success in the
second-half). We’re goin’ up.”

This mid-season bodes even more prom-
ise, though, as a young and untested Wildcat
squad hopes to find its footing.

Perhaps the brightest of points on Saturday
was the play of freshman guard Robyn
Flewelling. A highly-recruited guard who
has spent most of her time at the small for-
ward position this year, Flewelling broke
into the starting lineup Saturday and re-
sponded with a 12-point first half.

“With 0:06 left at the end of the first half,
Robyn takes the ball and dribbles coast-to-
coast, weaving through their entire team and
finishes with a layup. to give us a halftime
lead,” narrated Magette.

“She has the moves, she has the shot. The
rest of the team has believed in her all along,
and now she’s finding her groove.”

‘Filar agreed, “We saw a different look in
Robyn Flewelling’s eyes on Saturday.”

Charleston falls
to streaking ’Cats

By Mike ANDERSON
Editor Emeritus

For the first time all season, it seems that
momentum has donned a Davidson jersey.

The Wildcats earned a decisive 66-54 vic-
tory Tuesday night over the fifth-place Col-
lege of Charleston at Belk Arena.

“It feels great,” said a beaming Robyn
Flewelling after :
the game. “After,
having such a!
rough start to the ;
conference sea-
son, we’ve really
learned to appre-
ciate these wins
and not take any fos
of them — for
granted.”

Four different
Wildcats scored
in double digits,
led by junior for-
ward Kelly
Copland with 15.
Flewelling added
12, while Meghan
Bryant and Janna
Magette chipped in 11 and 10, respectively.

The victory improves Davidson to 2-0 in
the second half of the Southern Conference
season and avenges a 69-52 loss in Charles-
ton on Nov. 27.

“That’s a 29 point turnaround for us in two
months,” Magette said. “I think that is a
pretty good indication of what this second
round is going to be about.”

Bryant, a freshman post player from North
Mecklenburg High, continues to menace the
Cougars — earning her second career double-
double last night with 11 points and 12 re-
bounds. :

“She’s just a monster on the boards,”

: SID
Kelly Copland led
the team with 15
points on Tuesday
night.

' Flewelling said. “She has a great instinct of

where the ball is going to go, and she really
helped us out tonight. Charleston didn’t get
a lot of second chances because she was
keeping them off the glass.”

Davidson travels to Cullowhee on Satur-
day afternoon for a Southern Conference
match-up against Western Carolina. Tip-off
is at 2 pm.
