Editorial

The decision not to cancel classes in the hours after the
greatest tragedy in U.S. history has been the subject of
controversy in recent weeks.

The SGA forcefully declared its opinion on Sept. 20, when
it unanimously approved a proclamation that condemns the
decision. The text of this reso-
lution is printed on page 3.

The SGA argues that, for
obvious reasons, students
were unable to focus their at-
tention on academics as news
of the attacks unfolded. Hold-
ing classes placed undue stress
not only on students, but pro--
fessors as well.

“For a period of time, we, as
a campus, were not able to
concentrate on anything but
last week’s horrific events,” reads the proclamation.

If the psychological well-being of students is what the SGA
had in mind, then canceling classes would have been a
mistake.

_ Intimes of tragedy, we must draw strength from each other.
Surely a big part of what brought us to Davidson is the sense
of family that pervades this campus.

What better way to experience it than by gathering with
fellow students to reflect on and react to the day’s events?

To be sure, professors should have postponed any test or
quiz that may have been scheduled for that day. In place of
such assignments, they should have allowed students to share
their emotions or engage in thoughtful discussion. And any
absences should have been excused.

But caneeling classes altogether was not the answer. Stu-
dents were in no immediate danger and could follow the latest
developments as soon as their classes ended.

Many students would probably have stayed in their rooms
or their hall’s lounge, rather than congregating for a specific
purpose. This wouldn’t have helped.

Davidson president Bobby Vagt said he respects the SGA’s
proclamation, but believes the right decision was made.
Going to class and maintaining some semblance of routine, he
said, was a good way for students to get through the day.

The repercussions of this tragedy will surely last through
the end of the school year, perhaps through the end of our
Davidson careers. In the days ahead, we will again experience
anxiety, sadness, and anger.

We shouldn’t endure these emotions alone. We should be
thankful to be part of a close-knit community that bands
together in the best and worst of times.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

ISSUE: Should the
administration have
cancelled classes on
Sept. 11, the day of
the terrorist attacks?
OUR POSITION: No.
Compassion, not
cancellation, is the
best solution in times
of tragedy.

.. Executive Editor
Burgin Hardin
Managing Editors
Tim Cook _ Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
Martha Hunt Derek Loh
Sports Editors
Caroline Hauser Jimmy Swansbrough
Photography Editors _
Erin Berry Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Rick Bold — Aaron Houck
Jeff Larrimore
Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

e

http://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR by WILEY

YOU'RE ON YoUR OINN,
AND | Wid Noo TRE
BEST

oF LUCK

Noy-SEQU(TUR. COM

WILEY@NON-SEQUITUR.COM, IST. BN UNIWERSAL RRESS TIME WIA.

Falwell and Robertson out of
line with hateful comment

On Sept. 11, America learned the danger of religious
bigotry and fanaticism, but when it was echoed from political
policymakers in the United States on national television, the
nation paid it no notice. =

On Sept. 13, a mere two days after the heinous attack on
America, Pat Robertson, a prominent televangelist who sought
the Republican presidential nomination in 1988, was joined
on his television show, “The 700 Club,” by Jerry Falwell, the
president of Liberty College in Virginia and founder of the
“Moral Majority.”

What followed was one
of the most revolting dis-
cussions one could possi-
bly imagine. Falwell pro-
claimed that the attack was
God giving America,
“What we probably de-
serve.”

The reason that Falwell
claimed more than 5,000
people “DESERVED” to
die was that we had made
God angry by secularizing
America. He then continued to spew hate, saying that, “ The
abortionists have got to bear some burden for this because
God will not be mocked...I really believe the pagans, the
abortionists, and the feminists and the gays and the lesbians
who are actively trying to make that an alternative lifestyle,
the ACLU, People for the American Way—all of them who
have tried to secularize America-I point the finger in their face
and say, ‘You helped this happen.”

Robertson, the loving minister that he is, responded, “TI
totally concur.”

This is worse than a thoughtless, insensitive comment
during a time of national disaster, trying to exploit the deaths
of 6,000 innocents for political gain. Imagine for a moment if
days after the disaster Tom Daschle, the Senate Majority
Leader, or Sen. Hillary Clinton had come out and said that the
tragedy could be blamed on George W. Bush.

What Robertson and Falwell said is no different. Almost as
shocking as the disgusting hate that spewed from their mouths
against their countrymen, who they dubbed “Christ-haters,”
was the complete lack of coverage that came from the major
news networks. It would be wonderful if this story could be

‘ ignored because these men are not important or influential, —

but that could not be farther from the truth.

When considering the coverage of this story, it is impor-
tant to consider that these two men are not your average
televangelists. Instead, they are two of the most important
political power brokers in Washington. They helped assure
Ronald Reagan’s election in 1980. Robertson was a leading
candidate for the Republican nomination in 1988, and both
spoke at the Republican Convention in 1992. If you want to

know why former Pennsylvania Gov. Tom Ridge, the new

Secretary of Homeland Defense, is not Vice-President, you
don’t need to look much further than Robertson and Falwell.

ore

_ WEDNESDAY, —
SEPTEMBER 26, 2001

Bush knew that he would feel their wrath if he nominated a
pro-choice candidate, like Ridge, for the vice-presidency. In
fact it could be argued that Robertson and Falwell guaranteed
Bush the Republican nomination by undertaking an all-out
assault against Sen. John McCain. When McCain responded
to seemingly endless assaults on his character from Robertson
and Falwell by calling them out for what they are, “agents of
intolerance,” he was crushed by the backlash from both
conservatives and the national media.

While the story did get some coverage in almost every
major newspaper, it received very little coverage from the
major television networks. With all of the coverage of the
attack, there were FOUR stories between CNN, ABC, NBC,
CBS, Fox News, MSNBC and CNBC. CNN, NBC, MSNBC
and CBS didn’t cover it at all. CNBC and ABC’s coverage
was strictly about Falwell’s extremely weak apology, in
which he said,

“I sincerely regret that my comments were taken out of
context.” One Fox News story called it a “footnote” to the
story, giving it one paragraph worth of airtime. Another Fox
News interview with Bill O’Reilly was merely about the
impact these statements would have on the religious right as
a movement. So while there was some coverage of these
statements, it is likely that unless you watched television
constantly, you would have missed this story.

So how could such vile comments, which use political and
religious hatred to trivialize the deaths of somany Americans,
attract such little attention from the American media? It is a
question that I can’t answer, but I know that it tells us

’ something as a culture during this tragic and trying time.

We cannot let hate and intolerance from such influential
people go unnoticed. It was comments like this from the
leaders of radical Islamic groups that led to the tragedy on
Sept. 11. It should also remind us that the people celebrating
in Palestine, Egypt and Afghanistan for their own political
reasons speak for the people of those nations or the Muslim
faith no more than Falwell and Robertson do for the United
States or the Judeo-Christian values that they purport to
represent.

Tom Anstrom ‘04

Take your time in deciding
whether to join a fraternity

As seniors and presidents of two Davidson fraternities, we
are writing to offer advice to freshmen who are considering
joining a fraternity:

1. The semester-long rush at Davidson offers an incredible
opportunity to meet members of all Patterson Court organiza-
tions. While you may believe you have found the perfect
house already, don’t forget that Davidson is a small commu-
nity, and it is nice to have friends in many places. You have
all semester to accept a bid; fraternities should respect those
who take time to make their decision.

2. Beware of stereotypes. Each fraternity has committed in
writing to avoid bad mouthing other houses, but unfortu-
nately, it continues to happen. Always keep in mind the
intentions of suchrumors. Rather than relying on miscontrued
or false information, spend time getting to know the members
in all the houses so you can make your own, educated
decisions.

3. Study hard. You cannot join any Patterson Court orga-
nization unless your cumulative GPA is 2.0 or above. Aca-
demics should come first at Davidson, and the relationships
and experiences you gather from j joining a fraternity should
complement that focus.

4.Be smart. If you are going to participate in drinking
activities, whether on Patterson Court or elsewhere, be care-
ful and conscious of your behavior. There can be very serious
consequences with drinking, both legal and physical, and it is
just as much your responsibility as it is a house’s to maintain
a safe environment.

These four points address issues we believe are important
to keep in mind while making decisions about fraternities. If
you pay attention to these four points, we believe you will be

well on your way to having a A positive, constructive, and fun
Greek experience.

Sincerely,

James Jenkins Michael Clifton —
President, President,
Kappa Alpha Order | Pi Kappa Alpha
