Plaques, from page I

areas,” explained Registrar Hansford. f
Epes. “One, having to do with the :
stipulations in donations made to the :
college, and at which point one might :
saynotoastipula~
tion. I don’t think a
anyone wanted to
suggest that this
was one such
place. The other
hadtodowiththe |
expressed con- nd a
cern that the ap-
pearance of
such plaques |
and quotations -
might present cs
an unwelcomeness to those outside the Chris-
tian tradition.”

Epes emphasized that respect for the donor
was of primary importance. He encouraged
others to express gratitude for the gift of a
donor and respect the donor’s concern for
Davidson’ s historic tradition and its relation-
ship with its Christian background, saying
that background is “part of the college’s
history.”

“I am not terribly comfortable in treating
an unnamed donor as anything other than
someone who should be thanked and re-
spected,” Epes commented.

Simultaneously, Epes expressed concern
that the plaques might give a “false impres-
sion of Davidson to those who share in the
Christian tradition, that impression being to
put us in that stratum of schools in which the
tradition is indeed narrow.’

At Davidson, Epes explained, “The Chris-
tian tradition is manifest in living, not in
legends.” Epes refered to Davidson’s charter
itself, in which the school’s founding fathers
express their specific desire to create an insti-
tution that is “not narrowly sectarian.”
Religion professor Trent Foley expressed
similar concerns. Curious about the plaques’
exact wording, he researched the translations
and was.able to link them to the New Ameri-
can Standard Version of the Bible. This fact
alone was enough to attract Foley’s concern.
“This was a translation of scripture that
was produced in the mid-70s by self-de-
scribed fundamentalists whose interpretation
of scripture was literal,” he explained. “Ba-
sically, their interpretation of scripture repre-
sents everything that main-line

light to

yr |
SALTS

word is a lamp to my te

-Presbyterianism
does not. It’s a
version of scrip-

my path
1I9s105

/ us as scholars
would ever think
of using in our

religion classes.”
Foley’s ideal solution would be to put the
plaques up in Hebrew, as “that’s the language

the quotes were originally written in.” He
recommended providing English translations
underneath, using a “better” translation, such
as the New Revised Standard Version, the
choice of most professors in the religion
department. .

Concerns among religion professors ex-
tend beyond the
intricacies of the
translations them-
selves. Religion
professor Plank
warned of the
overall dangers of
giving scripture a
“bumper sticker”
quality.

“Tam aware of
the seriousness of
those texts and the
necessity of ap-
proaching them

ture that none of |

It’s not so much that
I’m put off by the signs
themselves, as I am by
the process by which ..
they appeared. 7

—Professor Trent Foley

“Some have questioned the ap-
propriateness of religious plaques
~ at Davidson” said Vagt. “Well, we
have achurch sitong on the ¢ corner
‘of our property.”

And yet the main concern may
not even lie in the nature of the
plaques at all.

“It’s not so much that I’m put off
by the signs themselves, as lam by
the process by which they ap-
peared,” continued Foley. “These
are statements about our commu-
nal values. As a liberal arts college, its
important for us to make statements about our
communal values, but I think the community
needs to have a discussion about them, not
just a small group of people.”

Though mostly contained to the faculty,
debate over the plaques has begun to emerge
among students as well.

“The quotes seem so antiquated,” said
Emily Einstein ’04. “They are notin the least
gender inclusive.”

Others seem unconcerned. “We already
have too many things to read at this college,”
commented Hak Shin Park ’04. “Who the
heck is going to notice some random plaques?”

Despite the concerns, the plaques are here
to stay. Faculty members who had expressed
concern seem more or
less placated.

“I wouldn’t object if
the signs came down,”
said Foley. “But that
was never presented as
an option...No one had
the temerity to suggest
that they be taken
down.”

“Am I satisfied with
the outcome?” asked
McMillen. “No. But I
don’t think there is much
I can do to change the

with acertain kind
of integrity,” Plank explained. “How can we
expect students to deal with these texts seri-
ously in class when they go out afterwards
and find them trivialized on the walls?”
Vagt, in defense of the plaques, maintains
that they are in perfect keeping with
Davidson’s Presbyterian heritage, and in fact
celebrate it. He sights the college’s Mission
Statement, which states, “Since its founding,
the ties which bind the College to the Presby-

terian Church have remained close and .

strong.”

situation.”

Vagt has communicated to the donor of the
plaques that no more will be accepted for the
moment. Reflecting on the situation, he
commended the faculty for its willingness to
engage in “healthy and wholesome discus-
sion.”

“If we all had the same opinion about
everything, this would be a pretty dull school,”
said Vagt.

Otts lecturer shares tales of Dead

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

Conspiracy theorists and doomsday cult
members would likely have been disappointed
in this year’s Otts lecture series. Those with
more scholarly inclinations, however, had
good reason to attend and appreciate Dr.
James VanderKam’s two-part talk on The
Dead Sea Scrolls.

Dr. VanderKam is a Harvard PhD and the
John A. O’Brien professor of Hebrew Scrip-
tures at the University of Notre Dame. For
the past decade, VanderKam has been inti-
mately involved in the official effort to edit
and publish the Dead Sea Scrolls; he has also
written a book, The Dead Sea Scrolls Today,
which has been translated into six languages.

The lecture was well-attended by religion
majors and professors, people from the com-
muhity, and students who’ d been told that the
lectures would be on their midterms. A few
found the talks “boring,” but most everyone
in the audience seemed engaged with the
story of the Scrolls and their eeiovance to

~ modern religious thought.

The Dead Sea Scrolls themselves are a
collection of over 900 documents found in
the 1940s in caves near Qumran — an isolated
location on the Dead Sea believed to have
been home to members of a Jewish sect
known as the Essenes. The Essenes lived at
Qumran from the second century BC up until
the Romans overran Palestine in 68AD. They
are thought to have been an all-male sect
whose purpose was to await the coming of
God. sae

“Working with the scrolls has been aunique
academic experience,” said VanderKam.
When the first ones were found they caused a
sensation because there are very few primary
texts from this era.

_ However, research tapered off in the mid-
sixties, and their contents were (for the most
part) never published. In the eighties, this
“concealment” of the scrolls’ contents led to
a rash of conspiracy theories — and renewed
interest in the project of translating and pub-
lishing them.

The first of the two lectures focused mainly
on the history and contents of the scrolls.
VanderKam showed many slides, showing

documents ranging in quality from a com-
plete scroll of Isaiah to a scattering of frag-
ments less than an inch long. Unfortunately
the findings tend much more towards the
latter; at one point VanderKam referred to
most of the pieces as the “Dead Sea itty-bitty
bits.” . :

Among the scrolls are documents pertain-
ing to the life of the Essenes — including
extraordinarily strict codes of conduct, and
rules for becoming a member of the sect.
Several biblical commentaries were also
found, showing the central role that Jewish
scripture played in the lives of the Essenes.

Finally, among the Dead Sea Scrolls are
copies or pieces of all but two of the books in
the Jewish Bible — our oldest copies of such
texts by nearly a thousand years.

According to VanderKam, for the most:

part the scrolls prove that the Old Testament
has changed little over the centuries — the
ancient and modern texts agree toa surprising
extent, given the centuries of hand-copying
they underwent. .

A few additional paragraphs have been
discovered in the Scrolls, and a scroll of the
Book of Psalms gives the songs in a different

Sea Scrolls

order and adds eight unfamiliar ones, but by
and large their text confirms the accuracy of
our modern Bible.

The second lecture was more scholarly in
nature. VanderKam devoted a considerable
amount of time to addressing the theory that
the scrolls are Christian documents, a theory
to which he does not subscribe for a variety
of reasons, including advanced Carbon-14
dating and the complete absence of Jesus in
the scrolls’ text. At one point some thought
that a papyrus fragment was a piece from the
Book of Mark, but advanced photographic
techniques have caused VanderKam and oth-
ers to discard this theory.

VanderKam did, however, address the pos-

_ sibility of John the Baptist being connected

somehow to this sect. He also drew parallels
between the Messianic beliefs of the Essenes
and the Messianic beliefs of the Christians.

Vanderkam concluded the lecture on a
humorous note with a slide bearing David
Letterman’s “Top Ten Surprises Found in
the Dead Sea Scrolls.” Of particular interest
to many attendees was number four: ““With-
out getting too specific, Presbyterians are in
serious trouble.”
