_ Tue Davinsonian

By Drew PRICKETT
Staff Writer

After nearly a week off due to the tempo-
rary shutdown of athletic events, the David-
son women’s volleyball team returned to
competition with three Southern Conference
matches.

The Wildcats (4-6, 1-2) are vying for an

“(The team] is going through a re-
building stage. It’s a tough situation
because we’re so used to winning.”

—Jennifer Ortega ’02

unprecedented third-straight regular season
and SoCon championships, but struggled to
find consistency this past week.

The ’Cats fell in their SoCon opener on the
road to a strong Furman team (30-21, 30-22,
and 30-17), then cruised to an easy victory
against The Citadel (30-16, 30-13, 30-28)
before losing a hard-fought battle to the Col-
lege of Charleston (26- 30, 30-21, 30-27, 30-
25).

Senior outside hitter Jacqueline Ortega led
the way in the Furman match, tallying 15 kills

Outside hitter Kristen Higbee ‘05 leaps to spike one home.

and 9 digs. Ortega also displayed her prow-
ess against The Citadel with 14 kills and
seven digs, while her sister, Jennifer, was
right behind with 10 kills. Sophomore setter
Nicole Tonelli posted 34 assists and also
registered four aces in the win.

Against the College of Charleston, Tonelli
once again paced the team, handing out 40
assists and supplying 13 digs in an intensely
competitive match. The teams split the first

Lindsey Bebee

two games, and were tied at 15 in the third
when Charleston pulled ahead on an ace,
never to relinquish the lead. Game 4 was just
as close, but the Cougars eventually put the
match away, 30-25.

After opening SoCon action with a win
and two losses, the team finds itself in an
unfamiliar position: below the .500 mark in
conference competition. Furthermore, the
Furman match proved to be the first time in

eee

four years that the ’Cats lost an
league match, and the Charleston loss was
the first to the Cougars in seven meetings.

When asked how the team morale is,
Jacqueline Ortega said that it has not disap-
peared yet. “We are searching for it right
now. I look at our team and I see talent, and
the fact that we’re not winning is frustrat-
ing.”

Ortega also pointed out that the new rally
scoring has had an effect on the Wildcats.
Instead of winning points on a team’s serve,
after a “sideout,” a team can win a point
when the opposition is serving. As a result,
the teams play to 30 points in each game.

“We start off strong and end strong, but
[points] 17-24 are tough to fight through,”
says Ortega.

Sister Jennifer also has hopes of accom-
plishing another championship season, but
notes, “[The team] is going through a re-
building stage. It’s a tough situation be-
cause we’re so used to winning.”

Despite the current frustration, Jennifer
insists the team needs to take the season
one game at a time, peak at the right mo-
ment, and be champs for a third straight
season: “I am excited about this year. It’s
our last chance (as seniors) to prove that
we are number one.”

Tough break for field hockey

By SARAH NOLAN

Staff Writer

“Success is not measured in the result, but
in the progress. We were very successful in
our progress this weekend.” Head coach
Christy Morgan said it best, describing her
field hockey team’s two losses to Ursinus
College and Providence College this week-
end. These are only the second and third

half, junior Jessica Barton jumped in front of
the cage to save the high UC shot with her
stick. Her high stick resulted in a penalty
stroke, which keeper Cate Schenning ’05
rejected, keeping the score at a tie.

UC came back to score with 14:50 to go,
and Davidson never recovered, ending the
game with a final score of 2-1. Davidson
finished with 13 shots, six penalty corners,
and seven saves from Schenning. Defensively,

Erin Berry

Midfielder Tiffany Homan ‘05 fights for possession of the ball.

losses of the team, bringing their overall
record to 4-3.

The Wildcats started off their weekend
on Saturday against Ursinus. The game be-
gan as a battle for ball control, which UC

won, netting their first goal with 24:13 min-.

utes to go in the first half.

The ‘Cats fought back hard, though, until
they were rewarded with their first goal of the
game, delivered by Maggie McPherson ’05
off of an assist from Alex Rogers ’03. This
was McPherson’s second goal of the season.

Davidson ended the first half with an op-
portunity to put in another point. As the clock

ran out, the Wildcats had a penalty corner,

but couldn’t connect and ended the first half
tied at 1.

The second half was mostly defensive for

’ Davidson. Just shy of ten minutes into the

the Wildcats fought through 12 corners.

After suffering Saturday’ s defeat, the Wild-
cats still came out strong against Providence
on Sunday afternoon. Providence notched a
goal at the start when Jen Chin took a shot less
than ten minutes into the match.

Davidson made it through the rest of the
half successfully, denying Providence’s at-
tempts at scoring. The Wildcats never made
up the early goal, fighting through a scoreless
second half. Davidson ended: with five shots

and six corners. Goalkeepers Schenning and |

Sarah Nolan ’05 split the cage and combined
for seven saves.

The ’Cats are confident that they will come
out of these losses a stronger team, and will
look to avenge the defeats next weekend
when they travel to Missouri to take on South-
west Missouri State and St. Louis.

Ag

Bring this ad in to any of our locations and...

+ \

AT GRIFFIN BROTHERS!

Regularly priced at $39.95. Applies to most vehicles;

eat deal that In

n Oil Change

e Com

“GRIFFIN

BROTHERS
TIRE SALES, INC.

EST RES EEE tere ETT

6

OFF

AN AUTO PHYSICAL

SET

up to 5 qts. of Castrol oil.

cludes...
Filter

plete Safety inspection

inspection

a=

Spring Break with STS,
Ameaee al 1 Student Tour Operator ©

