‘Overseas. |
‘from page ie

neasbytnn at Reeiad 0 haditfad of wpuliste

crowded around a television. Even though I
could not understand the Italian, lunderstood
the pictures. There was silence in the pub
except for a girl weeping. She was from New
York. I really don’t think we will understand
the complete impact until we get back to the
States.”

Andrew McKain ‘03 is enrolled in Israel’s
Hebrew University in East Jerusalem, where
Palestinian street celebration erupted after
the attacks. .

While acknowl-
edging the immedi-
ate concerns about a

‘lic, Davidson’s international community is

taking last week’s events seriously. Several
international students have manned a table

‘outside of Chambers, urging students to “stop —

the cycle of violence” by writing letters to
government officials. Oa
Nidhi Paul'’03, a citizen of India, said, “A
lot of what I have been hearing in the last few
days has concerned increasing threats to for-
eign nationals and to those of different
ethnicities. I am an Indian, and my country
members are among those being targeted.
This doesn’t make me any more comfortable
to be in this country at this time. “The war that
a lot of people
want will happen
very close to my

United States re- homeland, and my
Mekain asserted, -Ldon’tthink we will wold"
here, not much has —-UNerstand the com- —_eridence Life
ofthing wbuitinto ‘Pte impact unil we oes on
Israeli society. get back to the States. plaints of tension

They’ve dealt with
terrorism for de-
cades, and while they
_have never experi-
enced anything of
the magnitude we
just did, the psychological effects are the
same. Daily routine here already includes
extensive security precautions.”

McKain was quick to point out the Israelis’
concern and compassion to the more than 100
American students on campus, even as the

- country was placed on high alert.

“Several people have approached me to
offer their sympathies and make sure none of
my family members were lost, while the
university synagogue held prayer services
for victims and their families,” he said.

On campus
International students on campus are also
struggling with the global ramifications of
the attacks, as well as potential retaliatory
actions by the United States.
With 108 students from 45 countries, in-

~ Tere Grinstead ‘03

on campus, but
sent an e-mail to

urging increased

awareness of stu-

dent reactions and
relations, and relaying a Davidson staff
member’s offer to temporarily house any
Muslim or international students who feel
uneasy.

Paul continued, “I know that the situation
is affecting people here, but this is one time
when I think that the Davidson bubble is
actually beneficial.

“The decision by the administration to keep -

classes open has helped everyone get back on
their feet...1 don’t believe that Davidson is
succumbing to anger and resorting to
violence...1 am glad that Davidson has a
support system and a great community that
seems to be reaching out right now rather than
striking out.”

US News
from page 1
the rankings this year.

Though many of the statistical components
in the ranking process are straightforward,
such as graduation and retention rates, others
prove considerably more complex. For ex-
ample, LeFauve noted that deriving a value
for “faculty compensation” involves adjust-
ments that differ depending on a school’s
geographic region. The nature of these “‘ad-
justments”, however, is largely unknown.
Other categories such as “financial resources”
seem to possess calculation algorithms that
are equally vague.

Another possibly misleading factor lies in
readers’ perceptions of absolute college rank.
Davidson’s rank, for example, has fluctuated
greatly over the past decade. A 1994 place-
ment of eighth overall dropped in 1995 to
21st. In 1996, Davidson was back to 11th.

Do such drastic changes correspond with
drastic changes within our school? “Of course
not,” said LeFauve. “Rank must be taken in
the context of the schools around us.” While
Davidson may maintain its quality of educa-
tion across the board, rank may still slip
because values at other institutions have fluc-
tuated comparatively. :

And, even beyond all of these inconsisten-
cies, US News changes its methodology for
evaluating schools every year, making it im-
possible, in LeFauve’s view, to fairly com-
pare results across any considerable time
span. “There is no statistical rationale for
camparing results from year to year,” noted
LeFauve.

Dean of Admissions Nancy Cable is quite
familiar with Davidson’s rank, as the US
. News ——— —— Plays con rolei in

“ oe a a

high school students’ college search. She too
has raised many questions with the ranking
systems over the years, and its ability to
accurately portray the characteristics of col-
leges.

She questions, for example, a factor under
the “student selectivity” ranking category
awarding colleges whose students rank in the
top ten percent of their graduating class.
Problems here? To begin with, as Cable
noted, it is unrealistic to assume that all
colleges and universities have an equal chance
of attracting this relatively small minority of

high-performing high school students. There

are simply “too few to go around.”

Further, not all high schools rank students
in the first place, making this pool even
smaller. Cable suggests that schools with
good reputations have an unfair advantage in
attracting top high school students, and so
receive high rankings that are perhaps unrea-
sonable in this sense. “The law of averages
weighs in favor of those who are already
strong,” said the dean. “Fortunately, Davidson
is already strong.”

Perhaps the most interesting ranking cat-
egory is that of “academic reputation.”’ Con-
stituting 25 percent of a college’s total rank
value, this category represents the results of
an academic reputation survey sent yearly to
college presidents, and deans of admission
and faculty, where upon they are asked to rate
the academic excellence of all schools in their
category with a number between one and
five.

College President Bobby Vagt recently
filled out such a report, as did Cable and Dean
of Faculty Clark Ross.’ Vagt admits that it is
a bit unrealistic to expect college presidents

to evaluate others’ reputations—especially

staff members:

when there are “43 bazillion schools”, many
of them entirely unfamiliar, to evaluate.
“Tt’s not possible to know enough about all
of them,” says Vagt. “So you begin to rank
based on their reputation. And at the same
time, you’re feeding that reputation.”
Perhaps not surprisingly, upon reviewing

what other school officials said about

Davidson, Vagt found errors had been made
evaluating the school “in terms of our size, in
terms of what we do, in terms of where we’re
located...”

But despite all the particular flaws in the
US News ranking system, it is the larger
picture that is perhaps of merit. “I will shoot
the method down statistically,” affirmed
LeFauve, “but you can use the information to
get a better understanding of yourself and
how well you’re doing—and we are doing
very well indeed.”

As arbitrary as the rankings might seem at
times, Vagt said people do pay them a great
deal of attention.

“You hear people say ‘it’s a beauty contest,
and we don’t pay attention to it,’” Vagt com-
mented. “Well, you’re kidding yourself if
you claim people don’t pay attention to it,
because they do. Are we happy to be in the
top ten? -Absolutely.”

Cable agrees. “It’s a thrill to be on top—
and Davidson deserves to be there” she said.
“Our ranking reflects well the strong quality
of our faculty, student body, facilities and

alumni.”

How do Davidson students feel about mak-
ing the top ten? “It’s about sei time,”
noted Evan Maier ’04.

Others seemed more pensive. “Moving up
to number 10 is a positive step for Davidson
and demonstrates that we’re the top liberal

arts college in the South,” said Adam Hill ’03.
“However, we should remember that the heart
of a school can never be calculated by num-
bers, and that’s where the charm of Davidson
really shines through.”

Perhaps no one is more conscious of the
debate over the usefulness of the US News
college rankings than the writers at the maga-
zine itself. The magazine addressed the ques-
tions surrounding their evaluation of schools
in several articles accompanying this year’s
results. Much emphasis is placed on suggest- .
ing that readers not lose sight of the real merit
of the rankings.

“The challenges of striving to measure
academic excellence,” writes Peter Cary. “All
of this discussion of ranking methods dis-
tracts from the real usefulness of America’s
Best Colleges. Hundreds of thousands of high
school students and parents use the magazine
and the guidebook, or visit usnews.com, not
to see who’s No. 1-they can read that in last
week’s wire stories—but to pore over the
charts and tables comparing the colleges they
are interested in. For today’s information-
hungry students trying to find colleges where
they will best fit, this is a great place to start.”

And yet, despite all of the hype and mys-
tery surrounding the rankings, it does feels
good to be on top.

“Of course we’re happy,” said Vagt. “We
can now all say that Davidsonis one of the top
ten liberal arts liberal arts schools in the
country.”

The president paused and smiled. “Now
that and a dollar and a half may get you acup
of regular coffee over there across Main

. Street.”
