_ Catcard readers are now operational on
many drink machines across campus. Most
Pepsi and Coke machines have readers and
others will be equipped in the coming]
weeks. The Xerox machines in the library
will soon accept Catcards as well.

_ Folk singer to appear on.
iS campus

“Polk singer David Lamotte will appear
at 9:00 PM on February 3. The concert is
sponsored by Westminster Fellowship of
Davidson College Presbyterian Church and
‘will be held in the 900Room.

aes, February s All voting will: occur
online; the website will be available from
8:00 am to 5:00 pm. :

"Artist Serlest ‘Ladyanith
- Black Mambazo

as Say puiaed winning Ladysmith

slack Mambazo will play in Love Audito-
on Tuesday, February 6 at 8:00 pm.
ts are $15 in advance, $6 for Davidson

students and $20 at the door. Re-

back to re-amend the proposal. She says that
opponents of the project are concerned about
traffic from trucks and maintaining an archi-
tecture consistent with the character of down-
town Davidson.

Early last November, Ruddick Corp., Har-
ris Teeter’s parent company, released reports
of slower sales and reduced forth quarter
earnings. In the November 22 issue of the
Charlotte Observer, developer Louis Stevens
was quoted as saying that Harris Teeter might
reconsider its decision if their earnings re-
bound. . .

“We still have high hopes that Harris Tee-
ter will come back to the project,” Stevens
told the Charlotte Observer.

The Stevens Company also considered find-
ing another grocery store that could offer a
facility similar to the Harris Teeter Express.
The company has also considered a Winn-
Dixie or Well-Spring, a natural food store
found in the Raleigh area..

Currently, the project remains on hold.
There has not been any major signs of con-
struction on the site since the end of last year.
The Stevens Company will wait for a new
tenant before restarting the project. They
have notindicated a projected date for restart-
ing construction.

Downtown Davidson continues expan-
sion

Smith-Scott and Associates is proposing to
build eleven new townhomes on South Street,
across from the Exxon station. They would
be adjacent to the new Town Center project at
the corner of Concord and Main. The
Lawerence Group was contracted to plan and
design the new project. The proposal also
includes the possibility of turning the

The project et mati of thé same concerns
as the Town Center project. At a meeting of
neighbors living near the project, residents
voiced concerns about trash disposal and the
fear that project may signal commercial
growth down residential South Street.

Brunson Russum, principal architect of the
Lawerence Group, assured that this was not
the case. ‘We understand that they don’t
want commercial [properties] down South
Street. In the proposal, we indicated only
conditional use of a bed and breakfast, which
we think is compatible with the neighbor-
hood.”

The town homes will be located: on the
corner of Main and Chairman Black Lane,
which is the name for the new road connect-
ing Lorimer Road and Main
Street.

The new townhomes will
be planned to be compat-
ible in style and scale with
downtown Davidson.
Russum also pointed out
that the project was de-
signed to blend with the
Davidson atmosphere.
“There are techniques to
make buildings fit
seamlessly into the neigh-
borhood. This includes sav-
ing the existing trees.”

The next step for the
townhome project includes
an additional hearing and
approval from the town
board forthe proposal. That
meeting is set for February
13".

Town keeps moving
forward

caused any —
major disruption of other town-sponsored

' projects.

According to Judy, the town recently passed
a moratorium on any major subdivision de-

_ velopments in the area. The temporary halt

allows the town planning board to complete

' projects such as a new planning ordinance,

the Open Space Planning, and the Adequate
Public Facilities Ordinance.

“We are planning ahead, trying to deter-
mine what the citizens want,” she added.

The town is readying its infrastructure and
zoning plans for the potential of additional
development, like the new suburban subdivi-
sion.

Town hall will remain busy over the next
few months as these new projects continue to
change the Davidson landscape.

Infill Housing

_Smith-Scott & Associates, Inc.

The current hiatus on the

Drawing of the new development

1/19/01

Disorderly Conduct

While responding to a call at Ryburn, a
physical plant employee was urinated on by
a subject. The employee observed the sub-
ject enter.a room in Ryburn. Officers con-
tacted the residents of the room and all of the
residents denied any involvement in the
incident. The following day one of the
residents admitted to doing the act. This
incident was forwarded to the judicial of-
ficer for review.

Fight in progress

Anofficer observed two subjects exchange
inflammatory statements and exchange
shoves on Patterson Court. One subject
shoved the other to ground and the officer
intervened and separated them. Both were
identified and were instructed to leave the
area. This incident was forwarded to the
judicial officer for review.

Intoxicated subject

Medics were dispatched to Richardson to
investigate a call for medical assistance.
Upon arrival medics located an intoxicated
subject and transported the subject to Lake
Norman Regional Medical Center for fur-
ther examination and treatment.

Intoxicated subject

Medics responded to Sentelle to investi-
gate a possible alcohol poisoning complaint.

subject and transported them to Lake Norman
Regional Medical Center for further exami-
nation and treatment.

Uponarrival medics located the unconscious —

For 1/19/01-1/30/01

Damage to property

A physical plant employee reported a bro-
ken glass door on the second floor of
Richardson. The approximated cost to re-
place the glass door is $200. This i is incident
is pending investigation.

Underage consumption of alcohol

An officer observed an underage subject in ©

Knox that had consumed alcohol. The sub-

‘ject went into the bathroom to vomit. After

evaluating the subject, the officer escorted
the subject to their room and a friend of the
subject stayed with the subject. This incident
was forwarded to the judicial officer for re-
view.

1/23/01

Larceny

Unknown person(s) removed without con-
sent, the basketball goal from the backboard
located behind the Kappa Sigma fraternity
house. The total approximate value of the
basketball goal is $30. This incident is pend-
ing investigation.

1/25/01

Larceny of a bicycle

Complainant stated that she placed her
black and gray unsecured mountain bicycle
in front of Richardson. Upon returning the

complainant noticed that the bicycle had been .

removed without her consent. The approxi-
mate value of the bike is $100. This incident
is pending investigation.

Trespassing

unsecured room without their permission
and tied their laundry together and hung it
from the room to a fire extinguisher in the
hallway. This incident is pending investi-
gation.

1/29/01.

Recovery of stolen bicycle

Officer recovered a stolen bicycle that
was located at the rear of the laundry build-
ing. The victim was notified regarding the
recovery of the bicycle and it was returned.

1/30/01

Alcohol policy :violation -

_ While on patrol an officer observed three
groups of subjects drinking beer and using
a ping-pong ball to play a game at the Kappa
Sigma fraternity house. After further inves-
tigation the game the subjects were playing
is called “Beirut”. The officer cleared the
jended the games and cleared the house.
‘This incident was forwarded to the judicial
officer for review.

Alcohol policy violation

While on patrol an officer observed a
subject drinking from a funnel that was
filled with a liquid that was later confirmed
as beer. The item is knownas a “beer bong” |
or a “funnel”. The subject was twenty-one
years old and was not intoxicated. The
officer confiscated the “beer bong” or “fun-
nel” because the apparatus is illegal to use
for the purpose of consuming alcoholic bev-
erages on Patterson Court.

Officer responded to Watts to investigate a Compiled by
trespassing complaint. Complainants in- Marlon Lynch, Assistant Director of
1/20/01 formed the officer that a subject entered their Public Safety/Campus Police
