By Co in EAGAN
Staff Writer

Changes are in the works for the Dean
Rusk Program at Davidson College. On June
1, French professor Homer Sutton will be-
come interim head of the program until a
permanent director is established in July,
2002.

Dean of Faculty Clark Ross naked Sutton to
fill the position when Ambassador Ken Brown
leaves the program in June. Brown has served
as head for six years and will become the
president of the Association for Diplomatic
Studies and Training in Washington, D.C.

The offering of the position came as a
surprise to the 19-year faculty member, who
welcomes this short “detour” in his career.

This is not the first bend in the road. Sutton
has performed
what he jovially
dubs “utility
work” before
on campus,
having served
as interim Dean
of Admissions
from 1992-93.

Sutton brings
much expertise
to his post. “T
am delighted
that Homer
Sutton is will-
ing to serve as
the interim di-
rector,” said
Ross. “Dr.
Sutton was in-
volved in the
founding of the
program and has always been a loyal sup-
porter of program activities.” Ross noted that
Sutton served as director of Study Abroad
from 1984 to 1994. In the late 1990s he co-
directed a task force on issues relating to
international students with Assistant Dean of
Students Leslie Marsicano. “He has had
extensive experience with all aspects of
Davidson’s international programs and ef-
forts,” observed Ross.

And Sutton’ s international experience has
been broad, having lived overseas on and off
for over 12 years. The 1971 Davidson Col-
lege graduate received his MA and Ph.D.
from Indiana University in 1979. He taught
English in Nice in 1971-1972, and obtained a

Sutton chosen as inte

Rotary Graduate Fellowship to Lausanne,
Switzerland in 1972-1973. Sutton then taught
English at the Sorbonne Nouvelle i in Paris
from 1977-1979.

“Dr. Sutton has extensive experience and
deep interest in international studies,” ob-
served Brown. “He can be expected to do an
admirable job as interim director of the Dean
Rusk Program.”

Sutton speaks very highly of international
programming on campus. “Davidson is
unique in having the Dean Rusk Program of
International Studies,” he commented. “I
was involved with the creation of the pro-
gram, and I think we it has done so much to
internationalize the Davidson campus. [hope
to continue that tradition throughout the year;
utilizing my collogues, who are already do-
ing a great things internationally.”

Sutton refers to the stats as signs of success,
pointing out that
over 75% of
Davidson students
will have studied
abroad by the time
they graduate. More
than 100 students
from 30 foreign
countries are cur-
rently enrolled in
classes. “Wehavea
great resource for in-
ternationalization,”
Sutton continued. “T
hope to work very
closely with Study
Abroad and interna-
tional students to try
and meld common
objectives and
achieve common
goals in internation-

att Whited

alization.”

With such aspirations, tasks as director of
the Dean Rusk Program will not be
unchallenging. Sutton’s new time commit-
ments? “There is a great amount of coordi-
nating and organizing of programming that
must be done on a day to day basis,” he noted.

Sutton will assume responsibilities for co-
ordinating a large number of speakers who
are invited to campus each year. He hopes to
continue a line of notable speakers hosted by
Davidson in recent years, such as Jane
Goodall, photographers Carol Beckworth and
Angela Fisher, and the Director General of
the World Wildlife Fund, Claude Martin.

CoHo invites faculty to lunch

By ANDREW MACDONALD

Special Contributor
a)

Rifts between students and faculty mem-
bers seem to center on a very specific theme:
Patterson Court. In an attempt to foster better
relations between the (at times warring) fac-
tions, Dean Shandley recommended that
houses make greater efforts to invite profes-
sors and staff down to the houses to demon-
strate that Davidson’s social atmosphere is
not simply one of loud parties and alcohol.

In an effort to cultivate better relationships
. With the faculty, CoHo eating-house plans to
introduce faculty lunches this semester. Ev-
ery Wednesday starting February 28 at CoHo,
faculty members are invited down to CoHoto
eat with their students and to share their
experiences outside the Spartan accommoda-
tions of Chambers.

According to CoHo’s social chair Rocky
Charton ‘03, this move will allow professors
to “eat and fraternize with house members in
an effort to encourage Davidson faculty to

view Patterson Court as a place to foster
closer student/teacher relationships.” CoHo
hopes that this will introduce the faculty to
the new house and for many, to the court as a
whole in a more favorable manner than they
may be accustoimed.

These lunches mark a concerted effort by
PCC to reach out to the faculty and adminis-
tration. Warner Hall Secretary Maria
Tardugno ‘03 hopes that “interaction be-
tween faculty and house members will result
in more faculty support for the court and will
give [the faculty] the chance to see students in
other atmospheres, outside of the classroom.”

That atmosphere of camaraderie would
demonstrate a change from what many have
viewed as a growing division between houses
and the faculty. As Ian Willoughby ‘03 noted,
“simply saying that the court is about more
than just parties and alcohol is very different
from actually showing that the court has so
much more to offer.”

Interested faculty members can call CoHo
President John Martin ‘02.

Sutton. will also coordinate a number of out-
reach programs in Charlotte, working with
such organizations as the Charlotte World
Affairs Council and the Charlotte World Trade
Organization. Furthermore, he will oversee
the distribution of over $30,000 in interna-
tional grants each year to students for oppor-
tunities for individual projects abroad. Be-
tween these tasks, various committee meet-
ings with the Dean Rusk Faculty and Stu-
dents Advisory Councils, facilitation of area
outreach with local schools, and the “admin-
istrative coordination of all things interna-
tional” on campus, Sutton should have his
plate full. He will be teaching two courses
next year, and hopes to maintain his aeene
schedule.

Despite. the inconveniences of transition,
Sutton tells students to expect no change in
the quality of international program services.
“T’d like to reassure students that the Dean

et eet ee

dations established in the program through
the dedicated work of Brown over the past
years. “I must salute Ken Brown for his
dedication over six years as director of the —
program,” he said. “We wish him all the pest
at his new job in Washington.”

Dean Ross has requested that Sutton him-
self coordinate the search for the next perma-
nent director of the Dean Rusk Program, who
is slated to assume duties in July of next year.

“In the selection process there will cer-
tainly be some discussions about the future
direction of the program and the necessary
qualities for the new director,” Sutton fore-
casted. Those internationally minded in the
Davidson community should take note, as
applications will be accepted beens next
fall.

