DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 2001

VOLUME 92, NUMBER 20

Admissions strives to retain need-blind policy

By Coin EAGAN
Staff Writer

With a record number of high school se-
niors applying to the class of 2005 this year,
competition for admission to Davidson has
reached an all-time high. Increased interest
means increased emphasis on those admis-
sions policies fundamental to the institution.

Among these policies is the need-blind
admissions policy, which assures that appli-
cants are evaluated without consideration of
their ability to pay tuition.

Though current levels of financial aid fund-
ing are sufficient to support need-blind deci-

sion making, the process is ever-threatened
by increasing costs of education in the twenty-
first century. The college is currently making
economic provisions to assure that future
need-blind decision-making faces no danger
of dissolution.

“Think of need-blind as a quality of the -

institution that has endured, endures, and will
continue to endure,” explained Dean of Ad-
missions and Financial Aid Nancy Cable.
The need-blind policy at Davidson assures
that when admissions decisions are made,
they are done so with out any knowledge or
regard for an applying student’s ability or
inability to pay. Cable heralds the need-blind

Watson Fellowships
awarded to seniors

By JessicA MERING
News Editor

As the members of the class of 2001 begin
their post-collegiate lives this spring, Ben
Carter and Liz Neiheisel will embark on
independent studies that will take them all
over the world. Carter and Neiheisel are re-
cipients of the competitive Watson Fellow-
ship that will fund their self-designed projects.

Carter plans to further his interesting in
farming by exploring agricultural communi-
ties in China, Peru, Ghana and Cuba. “‘It
seems to me a way of life that mediates
between the human and the non-human
worlds, that must negotiate between tame and
wild. Knowing from where his or her food
comes, the farmer acknowledges daily his or
her own dependence upon the land,” said
Carter. He hopes to build on what he has
learned through Davidson Outdoors and a
summer in Brazil and study organic farming.

During his time in each of the four coun-
tries, Carter will study the local farming sys-
tems and agricultural methods. He plans to
focus on the type of farming that Indians call
it ahimsic krishi , or nonviolent agriculture.
The principles behind it are based on indi-
viduals’ dependence on the earth and the
importance of treating it with respect. “I want
to stand behind an ox and try to guide the
plowshare across the field. I want to examine
the undersides of leaves for pests: insect,
fungus, or bacteria. I want to spread manure

1 News
2 Briefly
Arts & Living
11 Perspectives
13 Sports

across a farm and see the plants grow tall,”
said Carter. %

Carter faces several logistical problems as
he prepares for his year of study. First, he has
to build his travels around the seasons, ensur-
ing that he will be in each country during the
peak farming period. Also, he hopes to work
with farmers who are unable to be easily
contacted.

Neiheisel will apply her interest in journal-
ism next year by studying street newspapers
in post-Soviet and post-Soviet bloc coun-
tries. These countries face problems of ex-
treme poverty and homelessness; the news-
papers seek to educate the public and expose
the horrifying problems. “Street newspapers
are topical newspapers written and published
by mainstream journalists. The newspapers
devote limited space to information on

see Watson, page 4

policy as fundamental to the college’s mis-
sion. “Admission decisions are based upon a
consideration of the rigor of students’ high
school curriculums, their writing ability, their
leadership talent, character, and standardized
test scores” she said. “None of these criteria
have anything to do with the monetary situa-
tion of a student’s family.” Davidson shares
this need-blind policy with a small number of
those schools considered among the most
selective in the country.

President Bobby Vagt explains the impor-
tance of need-blind policies as they relate to
diversity on campus. “We want to make very
certain that when we look at diversity on this

, (™ yi

1 gn hE,
a ‘th
_ J

ve

-

Rob McKeehan 01 “tees off” on the campus’s new disc “frisbee” golf

campus it is not only in the form of gender,
racial and ethnic diversity, but socio-eco-
nomic diversity as well. There are students
who, because of the perception of high price,
would never apply to Davidson. The ques-
tion of what kind of aid we can give never
enters the equation.” Need-blind policies,
Vagt argues, help make Davidson accessible
to applicants of all socio-economic back-
grounds, and so prove vital in establishing
equality and diversity on campus.

It is important to understand what exactly
is inferred by need-blind policies, however.

see Need, page 6

tratton Lawrence

Course. The course opened on Sunday starting with a party for

seniors. See page 5 for article.

Old Chambers’ columns
hold morbid mystery

By Linpy BALDWIN
Staff Writer

One can’t pass a meeting with Davidson
President Bobby Vagt without noticing his
unusual decorating style — Davidson para-

. phernalia, toy tractors, anda squishy pink pig

are among the items adding character to the
President’s personal space. However, a new
addition is bound to spark more conversation
than almost anything else in Vagt’s office—a
framed article about a corpse found in the
columns of Old Chambers.

Vagt came upon this article almost entirely
by accident. He was given a book entitled
Memories of Davidson College, written in
1947 by former President Walter Lingle.
Stuck within the pages of this book was a

_Charlotte Observer article entitled

“Davidson’s ‘Cadaver in the Column’ Mys-
tery is Cleared.”

The article, which ran on December 4,
1949, focuses ona letter from Davidson alum-
nus Walter A. Dumas to his attorney Howard
Arbuckle. In the letter, Dumas describes his
liberation of a skull from the south column of
Chambers. This would seem a fantastic claim
except for the evidence included with the
letter — namely, the skull itself. Dumas in-
tended it as a gift for PiKA, which had re-
cently moved into a new house after its old
one fell victim to fire. He hoped the skull
would embody years of Davidson tradition,
legend and history for his old fraternity.

As many students may be aware,

‘ Davidson’s campus ysed to be home to a

medical school. According to legend, medi-
cal students at the turn of the century had to
procure cadavers for study on a not-entirely-

see Skull, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

Internet voting, take two

After great initial success, the new SGA internet
vofing hit a snag on Monday. When it became
apparent that some students had inadvertantly voted
in elections for which they were not eligible, the SEC
took action.

News page 2

Class of 2005

Now that the applications have stopped pouring in
and the dust has settled, the admissions office has
released a few facts and figures on thie newest crop of
Cats.

News page 6

Gladiator?

After taking home five Oscars, Ridley Scott’s epic
film emerged the clear winner at the Academy awards.
Derek, however, provides a dissenting view.

Arts & Livinc page 8

Break out of that box
Jenn Higgins speaks out against some of the mis-
conceptions surrounding learning disabilities and the
college’s policies regarding them.
PERSPECTIVES page 11

