Poul ine
ae pied

By Derek Lou

Arts and Living Editor

My fellow Davidsonians: I thought that
since our workloads are so light, I’d take the
responsibility of giving you all another as-
signment. Go to salon.com and find Bill
Wyman, Max Garrone and Andy Klein’s
article on David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive.
Read the first five paragraphs, and if you
have not seen the film, turn off your com-
puter, drive to The Manor in Charlotte, and
see the film. If you have seen the movie,
continue reading their article. It’s titled,
appropriately enough, “Everything you
wanted to know about Mulholland Drive.”

Is iteverything you wanted to know about
Mulholland Drive? No. Does it give a valid
explanation for the film? Yes. Does it give
the explanation? Of course not.

The salon.com article — there’s a similar
article on the website relating to Memento —
takes Mulholland Drive’s plot (the order
and way in which scenes are presented to the
audience) and forms a story. Essentially,
Wyman and company put the actions in the
film in an order that makes sense. Salon.com
describes the movie in, let’s say, language a
little more vivid than even I like to print in

. the Davidsonian.

The rest of their article, however, unlike
the movie they are discussing, is seemingly
brave, but ultimately is a sign of their inse-
curity as moviegoers.
doesn’t just aim for the moon: it blasts right
through the damn thing and knocks a few
rings off Saturn on its way out of our solar
system. It’s got monsters, the sexiest cin-
ematic lesbians since Jennifer Tilly and
Gina Gershon in Bound, literally little people,
a cowboy, some jitterbugging, a Spanish

Mulholland Drive -

Mulholland 1 Drive is too “everything” f for words

version of “Crying,” and a little bit of the
“Achy Breaky Heart” for good measure.

I do not want this article to be a critique of
just Wyman, Garrone, and Klein: this one is
for anyone who tries to understand the film.
To be fair, “Everything you wanted to know
about Mulholland Drive’ is, indeed, a well-
informed analysis of a mess of a film. It
correctly calls the movie “exhilarating —
two hours and 25 minutes of macabre thrills,
highly charged erotica and indelible im-
ages.” However, it is this praise followed
by their analysis and explanation that un-

By Derek Lou
Art and Living Editor

Long before his tours in the greater forty-
eight states, Jack Johnson grew up and, more
importantly, surfed on the northern shores of
Oahu. Barely a teenager, Johnson was taking
part in major surfing competitions and had a
Quiksilver sponsorship. All was going well
for the Hawaiian native. Really well, actu-
ally. By age seventeen, he was one of the
most respected athletes in his sport. His good
fortune, however, ended as quickly as he had
risen to the top of his sport. Because of a
wipeout that almost ended his life, Johnson
left the competitive surfing world and pur-
sued other interests.

Johnson left Hawaii to attend college at the
University of California at Santa Barbara.
There, he developed his interests in film and
music, eventually leading to Thicker than
Water, a surfing video filmed and scored by
Johnson and friends. It was named video of
the year by Surfer Magazine. The September
Sessions, another well-received surfing video
from Johnson, assured him a place at the top
of his field.

‘While making these videos, Johnson also
wrote music. His song “Rodeo Clowns”
caught the attention of G. Love & Special
Sauce, and the group performed the song on
its album, Philadelphonic. “Rodeo Clowns”
was that album’s only “hit,” and it also at-
tracted J.P. Plunier, the producer for Ben
Harper’s albums. Long story short: Plunier
liked what he heard, and under him, Johnson
recorded his first album, Brushfire Fairytales.
‘And not only did Harper play on the album,
- |but Johnson also toured with Harper earlier
this year.

A little of Hawaii comes to NC

“more like a sing-a-long session than a con-

Now Johnson is on the road headlining his
own shows. He played last Sunday night at
Ziggy’s in Winston-Salem, where more than
a handful of Davidson faces were in the
crowd. The show began with a screening of
The September Sessions, giving the entire
evening a relaxed atmosphere.

With his storytelling lyrics and catchy, but
not poppy, hooks, Mason Jennings opened
for Johnson and was received very well by the
crowd. The Minneapolis native’s set felt

cert: the first few rows of people sat cross-
legged only inches away from the singer and
his pianist.

The crowd stood up for Jack Johnson’s set,
which included almost all the songs from
Brushfire.. Merlo (bass) and Adam Topol
(percussion) accompanied Johson. Johnson
also played a number of covers, most notably
by Jimmy Buffet. It was an intimate concert,
full of stories, humor, and quiet music. Jack
continues his tour in Virginia, Maryland, and
Pennsylvania. Go to jackjohnsonmusic.com
for more information.

Photocopyright Jackjohnsonmusic.com

dermines “Everything you wanted to know”
— and other explanations of the film — that
makes the article come across as insecure.
If we are fans of the bizarre, inexplicable
thrills, erotica, and images, then why would
we try to make sense of them? The obvious
answer is that it is “normal” for us to make
sense, to find answers, to enjoy without
thinking. That’s why the Olsen twins and
the adult film industry are so successful.
Without understanding, which is what
“Everything you wanted to know” tries to
provide, we are left in a sort of comprehen-

Photocopyright movies.yahoo.com

Naomi Watts (left) and Laura Herring (right) star in David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive

sion limbo, and that’s
where Mulholland
Drive wants us to be. If
David Lynch wanted his
story to make sense, then
I don’t think he would
have wasted our time
discussing the film over
coffee, in the car ride
home, on dusty, dorm
.room couches.

If The Usual Suspects
and The Sixth Sense
blindsided audiences
with their endings, then
Mulholland Drive is like
one big, two-and-a-half-
hour blindsiding. The
response is to make
sense of what just hap-
pened. We can do that
with Suspects and The
Sixth Sense, but Lynch
‘makes that harder, dare
I say impossible, with
his film. Mulholland
Drive intimidates our in-
tellect, and, thus, we
become insecure.

With their article, Wyman, Garrone, and
Klein flip the bird at Mulholland Drive,
thinking they have triumphed over their
initial insecurity. They have not, though
they may believe otherwise. This movie —
and all movies, for that matter — has more
than one interpretation. It’s much braver to
simply enjoy this film, to turn off the brain,
and to leave on only the ears and eyes. In
respect to Mulholland Drive, confusion is
smarter than comprehension.

Bored? There’s a city called
Charlotte just down the big road

By Gavin WEBER
Special Contributor

The one and only Sinbad comes to Char-
lotte on November 11. Ovens Auditorium
will play host to his undoubtedly hilarious
stand-up. (We already are laughing.) If you
feel the urge to attend the show, as I am sure

you will, call (704) 522-6500 for tickets,

which range from $33-38. (Surely, though,
no price is too great.)

If you’re in a more visceral mood, WWF
Raw comes to the Charlotte Coliseum on
Monday November 19. Ticket prices range
from $17-$40 and can be purchased at
ticketmaster.com.

Calling all Texans: The Neighborhood The-
ater in Charlotte (511 East 36" Street) hosts
Pat Green on Wednesday, November 14.
Showtime is at 8 p.m., and tickets are $10.
Call (704) 358-9298 to charge tickets or
stop by the Record Exchange on East Bou-
levard in Charlotte to pay with cash.

The endearing play You Can’t Take it with
You finishes its run at Theater Charlotte on
November 11. Daily evening and matinee

performances range from $15-$20. Call _

(704)334-9128 for more information.

Also, Widespread Panic hits the Cricket
Arena (2700 Independence Boulevard) on
Friday and Saturday, November 16 and 17.
General admissions tickets are $25 and can
be purchased at ticketmaster.com. Both shows
begin at 7 p.m.

Finally, Medeski, Martin, and Wood will
play Tremont Music Hall (400 West Tremont
Avenue) on November 25. Tickets are $18.50

and can be charged by phone at (704) 343- _

9494 or purchased online at ticketmaster.com

