parties going on past one o’ clock, where is
someone who enjoys the Court environ-
ment supposed to go then?”

To support their position, Patterson
brought along two sophomores, one a
former resident of Richardson and another
who lives in the sophomore apartments,
who explained that the noise from the
Court doesn’t bother them.

For now, Patterson said, they won’t open
the “can of worms” that is the alcohol
policy. Furthermore, “we’re not going to
live or die by the quiet hours policy.” He
emphasized that he is open to other solu-
tions.

An ad hoc committee composed of stu-
dents, RLO employees and Campus Safety
officials has been formed to review the

way the current policy is bing enforced.
If the group can come to an agreement, a
formal mgs in policy me be unneces-
sary.

“If we can’t reach an Sreenient, we'll
go back to CCRL and explore a change in

the quiet hours policy,” said Patterson.

One change Patterson suggested might
be discussed would be a “warning” before
parties are shut down due to noise.

If the matter were referred back toCCRL,
Harris explained, “The committee looks at
the proposal, discusses it and decided
whether or not the proposal merits support

and a subsequent recommendation to the —

president. Support from the CCRL carries
a great deal of weight with President Vagt.”

“T would just urge any student who has
a concern about the social life here on
campus to attend the Forum on November
14th,” Harris concluded. “Come and ask

Students look ahead to forum

- Social Forum, from page 1

I'd like both Independents and Patterson
Court members to tell each other how they
feel about Court parties, and how fraternities
and eating houses can invite freshmen and
Independents as guests and rely on them to be
responsible and respectful in the houses.

Mary Kat White

Patterson Court Council Sergeant-at-Arms

The forum has been needed for a while.
Recent events just point out the need that has
always been there. I think recent events
highlight the difficulties of maintaining the
open party system (encouraged by the admin-
istration and enjoyed by the whole campus),
in which houses are unrealistically expected
to control and monitor everyone’s behavior.
This applies not only to recent events, but
also to things like house damages and over-
consumption of alcohol.

Renee Miller

President, Turner Eating House

The obvious event that people look to is the
unfortunate situation that happened at SAE
several weeks ago. However, I think this
forum has been needed for some time, and
only after a major event did it come to light
exactly how badly it was needed.

Amanda Mordavsky

President, Rusk Eating House

The forum i is needed if for no other reason
than to make it clear to the student body what

the administrafion’s intentions are. I feel that

a lot of the friction between the two groups
arises from a lack of communication, so hope-
fully this will help clarify the situation.
Ithink we have too many regulations. While
some are necessary to maintain order, we are

all adults on this campus and should have .

more control over when and where social
activities occur.

Michael Clifton

President, Pi Kappa Alpha

I think a forum is a good idea because the
Paterson Court social life is an integral part
of most every student’s experience. I don’t
have any ideas, but will be open to those
proposed at the forum.

Ryan Kinney

President, Phi Gamma Delta

I'd like to hear some truly honest debates
about the following issues:

1.The lack of communication from the
administration and the overall, arguably un-
deserved sense of mistrust that the Patterson
Court houses hold for any plan or individual
from the administration.

2. The paradox we call the Davidson Col-
lege alcohol policy.

3.The fact that the student body can be
uncompromising and downright bratty, un-
able to take the perspective of the administra-
tion and simply “grow up,” a problem that
makes for animosity, poor communication
and unaccountability.

4.The lack of commitment and responsibil-
ity to one’s house. Right now, I think that
students look at the Court with the concept
that it is something from which to take, a
resource to use up, “a college fling thing.”

5.The inconsistency by which the College
Police and RLO uphold the policies of the
College. Policies need to be upheld always or
never so that a system as undefined as J-
Board or the office of the Patterson Court
Advisor does then not regulate in such a
whimsical manner.

Grant West

President, Kappa Sigma

“abou 95 parent of the ipa tack on this
Getinvolved.”

those enous that y you ekd answers to.
Communication is the best way to solve campus. Don "tbe apathetic.

SGA RESOLUTION

Time To Be Thankful.
Time To Travel.
Time To Take Your Vehicle
To Griffin Brothers
Tire Sales For
An Auto Physical!

“GRIFFIN

BROTHERS
TIRE SALES, INC.

of?

ee ee ee a ee me a ee ee ey tm a mee me ee eee et a me tee om mee eee oe me oe te ne ee

Present This Coupon For

$10 OFF An Auto Physical!

| 3
: The Auto Physical Includes... OE Spars

¢ An Oil Change & Filter Sap 4

BROTHERS

* Complete Safety Inspection RS TRE
of

yo
~~
&
¢ Tire Rotation & Brake Inspection

Lake Norman * 19141 W. Catawba Ave. * 704.896.8473
. Universtiy Area ¢ 8040 N. Tryon St. © 704.549.8595
Uptown Charlotte * Mooresville * Concord * www.griffinbrothers.com

