THE Davipsonian

Soccer teams confident of success

By RicHARD CONNOLLY

By BraD BripGEs

Staff Writer

One good turn deserves another. In the
truest sense, the women’s soccer team hopes
to embody this slogan in its 2001 campaign.
Coming off a strong season characterized by
record-setting performances by not only the
team but also several individuals, this year’s
squad is looking to improve upon last season’s
success.

The team expects to earn Coach Kevin
Hundley his 100th career victory, and is in
position to make arun for the Southern Confer-
ence title—claiming Davidson’s first ever bid
to the NCAA Tournament in women’s soccer.

“We don’t just want to get tothe tournament.
We want to get there and compete and prove
that we-can play at that level,’ Coach Hundley
said.

On Friday night, however, the Wildcats
experienced a setback in attaining such lofty
goals as they dropped their season opener to
the 17'"-ranked Duke Blue Devils 3-0. “We
went into a challenging environment against a
nationally ranked opponent who we have had
limited success against in the past,” Coach
Hundley commented, “but we did feel opti-
mistic that we could be competitive.”

Freshman goalkeeper Sarah Hobart im-
pressed many as she recorded seven saves
despite the loss, as the Wildcats were out-
shot 17-2 by the Blue Devils. “Sarah proved
that she belongs playing at that level and
that she is capable of keeping us in the
game,” remarked Coach Hundley. Several
freshmen made the start for this game; the
team as a whole “showed great energy in the
first 25 minutes, but eventually fatigued be-
cause of the hot night,’ Coach Hundley
noted.

The Wildcats compete in the Naval Acad-
emy Invitational this weekend in Annapolis,
Md. The team plays Navy on Friday, Sept. 7
and then Columbia University on Sunday,
Sept. 9.

Staff Writer

As the 2001 soccer season begins, the Wild-
cat men are asserting their ability. “We gained
the confidence that we can step onto the field
with anybody in the country,” said returning
all-conference senior Chris Norbet. With eight
returning seniors and an arsenal of young tal-

ent, this year’s team is likely to overwhelm its

opponents.
This past weekend, the ‘Cats took the first

step toward their goal of an NCAA tournament

bid by winning the Holiday Inn Centre City

Classic in Peoria, Illinois. The Wildcats started
the tournament strong, defeating Drury Col-
lege 3-1. Chris Norbet led the attack with two
goals and an assist late in the game on a “give
and go” to Justin Saunders. Junior midfielder
Joel Sadler tallied two assists in the game as

Student Counseling
Center

welcomes first-year students and
upper-class students

Senior Jeremy Kilburn passes the ball upfield.

well, Saturday night the ‘Cats fell to Bradley

University 1-0, but still gained the tournament
title.

Though each team in the Classic had a 1-1
record, Davidson was declared tournament
champion with a goal differential of +1. Junior
keeper Soren Johnson received the tournament
MVP award for his exceptional play in front of
the goal. Seniors Derek Kilburn, Erik Ozimek,

Photo by Erin Berry

and Chris Norbet also earned all-tournament
team honors.

“We have a skillful, energetic group of
newcomers, and a group of veterans who are
playing more inspired and hungrier than ever
before,” said midfielder Ozimek. “The David-
son men’s soccer team will be an exciting, fun
team to watch this year.”

Davidson’s “hungry” ‘Cats play at UNCG
Thursday and take on Army at Richardson
Field Sunday at 1:00.

the trip with a 74-5
Davidson overcame a ‘si
ing drought in the second quarter to grab
a 34-30 halftime lead. The ‘Cats gradu-
ally began to pull away in the third quar-
ter, leading 56-43, and holding on for
the 74-57 final. Pearson again led the

Wildcats in scoring with 19 points and 8

rebounds. Erege was the only other
Davidson player in double figures with
12 points and 7 rebounds.

In the final game of the trip, the Wild-
cats suffered their only defeat of the
tour, 83-71 at-the hands of Benetton-
Treviso. Benetton was led by their point
guard, former UCLA Bruin and Sacra-
mento King Tyus Edney. Benetton is
also famous for being the team that the
Atlanta Hawks’ Toni Kukoc played for
before joining the NBA. The game was
close throughout, with neither team lead-
ing by more than 7 points in the first
half, when Benetton led 26-19. The
Wildcats then went on a 12-Orun to gain
a five point advantage. Benetton fin-
ished the half strong, and the game was
tied 35-35 at the half. Benetton slowly
gained control of the game, but led only
56-52 with two minutes to go in the third
quarter. But Benetton hit a pair of quick

| threes to start a 12-4 run to close the

quarter ahead 68-56. Erege once again
netted 20 points to go along with 9 re-
bounds. Pearson added another impres-
sive double-double, with 13 points and
13 rebounds. Ides had his most produc-
tive game of the trip, scoring 12 points.
Also in double figures was Anderer with
12 points.

Pearson feels that the two-week tour
was a great first step for this year’s
team. “The way we played on the trip
shows us that we can play with anyone
on our schedule. We just have to use the
momentum we gained this summer and
carry it over to our workouts this fall
and into the beginning of practice in
October.”

BEN pon ERRY'S.

VERMONT’S FINEST ¢ ICE CREAM & FROZEN YOGURT»

Tise your college kids
ay campus chums with
ane cream a ee

Tozen yo
for birthday or
graduation
celebrations, study breaks,
exam time or just for fun!

|

<p

>

he |b ee pe! Oe

Y

We're here to help.

Call x2451 for an
appointment.

aka beautiful price!

The Village Stove is proud to present
sterling silver jewelry by Kit Heath.

i
f

We offer a large selection of
bracelets. earrings, rings
and necklaces in styles
that ranges from bold te delicate.
Many pieces feature vibrant.

serni—precious stones.

Reasonably priced — great for yourself ov a loved one!

The Village Store.

110 South Main Street ¢ 704/892-4440
In the Heart Of Historic Downtown Davidson:
Fine Gifts and Accessories Since 1966

