‘Take a walk in their cleats .. .’ - student —

responds to criticism of athletic coverage

I read with frustration Jimmy
Swansbrough’s letter last week: criticizing
The Davidsonian’s sports editors for their
relatively sparse coverage of a variety of
minor sports such as wrestling, golf, cross
country, and track.

As a former editor-as well as sports editor-
of The Davidsonian, I feel compelled to re-
spond in the editors’ defense.

Jimmy raises some valid points. A large
number of Davidson students do compete at
the Division-I level, dedicating countless
hours to fulfilling their dreams of collegiate
athletics. In a more perfect world, every
Davidson studentperform-
ing some sort of meritori-
ous or valorous work (on
or off the athletic field)

ability to report and write journalistically.
As asports editor seeking to assign articles
to a student reporter that likely has little
interest in journalism for journalism’ s sake, it
quickly becomes quite difficult to cover many
of the important-but less alluring-campus
beats. If there’s a student on campus who
wants to go stand out in the woods on a
Saturday morning to cover a cross county
meet, I sure haven’t met him yet. We can’t
pay our writers, so we have little to offer them
but the appeal of big-time Division-I athlet-
ics-which explains why multiple writers will
flock to the higher-pro-
file sports such as
soccer, football and

basketball.

To further com-

would be splashed
across the pages of the
student paper. But
what Jimmy failed to
realize in his “I could
do your job better”
sniping is the funda-
mental fact that The
Davidsonian struggles
with the same con-
straints as do so many
other Davidson institutions
(including athletics): a scarcity of resources.
Davidson College is as difficult a place as
any from which to produce a college newspa-
per. Our newsroom and resources pale in
comparison to many a high school paper.
(Oddly enough, The Libertas-an alternative
~ paper that refuses to provide its own revenue
through the selling of ads and has no respon-
sibility to cover campus events of service to
the college-receives more money per edition
from the ATC than does The Davidsonian).
But money is the least of The Davidsonian’s

woes: the true challenge lies in finding com-

mitted and talented writers.

Ican think of few more difficult pools from
which to draft student reporters than
Davidson. We are a small campus body
whose students are overextended in count-
less directions: 14 compete in Division-I
athletics themselves, countless others are
committed to a wondrous array of campus
leadership and service activities, and each of
us is consumed with an academic course load
that produces, according to a Princeton Re-
view survey, the most studious campus popu-
lation in.the nation.

Now, the one thing you would think that
Davidson has going for it is the talent and
productivity of its student body-but hold on.
Most anyone who’s worked for The
Davidsonian-as well as many professors with
whom I have spoken-will contend that
Davidson is woefully deplete of journalistic
talent and interest. One major reason is the
relative absence of journalistic studies from
our curriculum: causing any student with a
sincere interest in the field to almost immedi-
ately discount Davidson from their college

‘search process. Being a gifted and creative
student often has little bearing on a person’s

plicate the matter,
the disinterest shown
by would-be student
reporters. only re-
flects the larger is-
sue-that, right or
wrong, the over-
whelming majority
of our readership is
more interested in
reading about oppos-
ing basketball or foot-
ball teams than about many of our own squads.
I continue to write a good deal of basketball,
and numerous times a day I’m asked by
students, faculty, staff, and townspeople about
the prospects of an upcoming game or a
recruiting prognosis. I receive e-mails from
Davidson alumni and fans literally across the
country-and even one from Europe this past
month-asking about our basketball team.
In a perfect world, as I said earlier, all
students would receive the coverage they

deserve. But I scoff at the notion that anyone

is entitled to coverage. If no one is willing to
write a story, and few are interested in read-
ing it-it’s not going to make it into the news-
paper. This sense of entitlement, may I also
add, seems to come exclusively from small-
sport athletes-there are countless and amaz-
ing accomplishments that come out of this
student body every week in the classroom
and in the community that merit attention, but
rarely does the class valedictorian or head of
UCA complain that no one is documentin

their every move.

In a flippant, arrogant tone Jimmy wrote
last week, “You editors wonder why no one
seems to read your paper each week, right?
Here’s a hint: Try writing about Davidson.”
That caustic tone is inappropriate, disrespect-
ful of the work these editors do, and amounts
to a sports editor saying, “You runners won-
der why no one writes about you every week,
right?. Try playing basketball.”

I will concede that cutting and pasting
press releases on minor sports is probably not
an unreasonable request. It doesn’t make for
the most interesting copy (as press releases
are written to simply convey information, not
intrigue readership), but is probably a fair and
decent step - one that the editors I’m sure will

respond favorably to.

In the meantime, Jimmy seems quite up to
date on athletic happenings around the school.
Might I humbly suggest that the time spent
assailing the sports editors with that letter
could have been better spent by picking up a

notebook and heading out to cover one of last
week’s fifteen athletic competitions. As you
were so quick to point out, they need the
writers.
Mike Anderson,
Editor Emeritus

Thinking outside the box

By JENN HIGGIns
Special Contributor

The word disability is defined by the Ameri-
can Heritage Dictionary to be a disadvantage
or deficiency, especially a physical or mental
impairment that prevents or restricts normal
achievement.

Many of us probably know people who are
disabled intellectually here at Davidson. Con-
sidering there aren’t many of us on this cam-
pus, we all know 20 people, but rarely do we
think of one of them as disabled. But that is
the reality, five percent of the Davidson stu-
dent body has been diagnosed with some sort
of learning disability.

These five percent do not look any differ-
ent or smell any different than the average
Davidson student. They fill out the same
application for admission and fulfill the same
requirements that were necessary for every
incoming student.

They read the book for Orientation Week-
end like all in-

too much work to do and just enough time to
complain about it.

Take this—According to Nance Longworth
of the Student Counseling Center, most of the
students with learning disabilities that she
works with have placed at or above the 97th
percentile for full IQ, which is genius range.
Yes, Einstein caliber students need a little
extra time on tests. Does this make any sense?

A brief crash course in the anatomy of a
learning disability is as follows. Associate
Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano describes
having a learning disability at Davidson as
being similar to being color blind.

“You can live along time and not know you
can’t tell red from green until you’re learning
to drive!” says Dean Marsicano. “But if you
alert your instructor, the instructor can tell
you to ‘Go’ on the bottom light and ‘Stop’ on

‘the top.

“That’s the type of accommodation we
make for students. They still have to learn
how to drive like everyone else.”

And with a

coming fresh-
men are asked to
complete. And
they choose, like
you, to pursue
degree programs
in majors like
Chemistry and Economics.

They don’t sound any different than their
fellow Davidsonians, yet in the quiet corners
of Chambers it appears that another stigma
follows those ‘wards’ of the Dean of Students

accommodations.

office. There is the obvious criticism that -

accommodations are a farce and an unneces-
sary gesture on the part of the administration
to cater to lazy students.

To clarify, accommodations are not simply
to please beneficent parents and inflate the
GPAs of a selected few who need some extra
motivation.

For those who were unaware, federal law
recognized the legitimacy of learning dis-
abilities as psychoeducational disorders which
put students at a considerable disadvantage to
otherclassmates. The federal Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990 required all colleges
and universities to provide accommodation
for students with Attention Deficit Disorder
(ADD). —

The primary accommodation at Davidson
that appears to bother most people is the

option of extra time on tests (often referred to .

as “time and a half’).

There are plenty of stories where people at
other less honor-bound institutions have taken
advantage of such an accommodation for
inappropriate purposes, but Davidson still
invests too much in its deep-rooted founda-
tion to think anything but the best of its
students.

So why do students get so frustrated about
“time and a half” yet care so little about why
their classmates are recipients of this acc
modation? Probably because we al! }u-

In a rigorous college environment such as
Davidson, we should make a conscious effort to
act, instead of react to students who receive

solid support
' network in
place, students
with learning
disabilities are
cruising along
the Davidson
course as well as to be expected. They are
presidents of clubs, star athletes, active stu-
dents, and community leaders, who for the
most part end up doing as well as everyone”
else in their respective classes. Organiza-
tions like Students for New Learning have
served to promote campus awareness of learn-
ing disabilities as well as in guiding those
students who “think outside of the box” to-
wards continued success at Davidson.

In a rigorous college environment-such as
Davidson, we as a student body should make
a conscious effort to act, instead of react to
students who receive accommodations. We
should take a second to ponder why, of those
100 or so students who have learning disabili-
ties here, 30% of them do not know it until
they get to Davidson.

We should think about it when we com-
pletely forget about that meeting we were
supposed to go to or the internship applica-
tion deadline that escaped ourmind. We may.
even need to go as far as thinking about the
implications when we make acommentto the
effect of “I’m so ADD today!” or “I forgot to
take my Ritalin!”

Little do we know we are a week away
from knowing some of the. answers. The
world’s leading expert on ADD, Dr. Edward
Hallowell in Love Auditorium. April 9th,
2001. 7:30pm. Come. Learn. Appreciate the
challenges that anyone you may know witha
learning disability faces each and every day.
Sccuuse as former Davidsonian Woodrow
Wilson once said, “The 1 vho is swim-
ming aganist d ‘vy knows the

renga oft :

mal
