round trip plus tax.

Europe $179 one way

plus tax.

Other world wide desti-

nations cheap

If you can beat these

prices start your own

damn airline!

Book tickets on line

www.airtech.com or
(212) 219-7000.

' . *
Ce ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

ad

By ANDREW MacDoNALD
Special Contributor

CoHo, in association with PCC, will be
putting on Davidson College’ s first ever cam-
pus-wide foosball tournament this weekend.
The tournament will. begin at 1pm on Satur-
day, May 5" and will last until there is only
one (or two, actually). The tournament will
team-based (two people per team) and di-
vided into two tournaments—amateur and
professional. Each tournament will be di-
vided into rounds, with multiple groupings
within each round. Every team in each group
will play and the two best teams will continue
on to the second round where they will be
paired with the two best teams from the other
groups. Each team will compete against ev-
ery other team again and the two best will go
onto a third round until only one remains.

The tournament, styled after European
Soccer competitions, will be conducted at the
CoHo house. Each team will pay a $5 en-

Spears,
from page 1

ment is considering similar actions.

Most shocking of all was the fight that
erupted in Vail Commons between Britney
supporters and those who believe she should
be’ banned for life from all public appear-
ances. The riot apparently started as an
argument between Sarah Mark ’03 and her
boyfriend Joseph McColm ’02 over the maga-
zine photo of Britney that has replaced Mark’ s
picture in McColm’s wallet.

Academic life at Davidson has also taken a
beating in the wake of the announcement.
One History professor expressed concern that
finals would have to be canceled. “I can’t get
my male students to pay attention at all. The

’ ones who actually show up to class spend the

period staring at pictures taped to the inside of

guarantee them at least
three matches and all the refreshments that
they can consume. The winners of each tour-
nament will receive an amateur-size and pro-
fessional-size engraved Cup, respectively to
be held by the team (or their house in the
event it is a court-sponsored team) until the
next competition, planned for the spring of
2002. All proceeds will go to benefit the
Strong Tower Medical Clinic, a group started.
by Davidson students that provides free health
care to the North Mecklenburg community.

This tournament follows on the heels of -
CoHo’s in-house contest earlier this semester
and will make use of the foosball tables of
Rusk House, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Phi
Kappa Alpha and is open to the entire cam-
pus. An information table with sign up sheets
will be located on the north end of Chambers
by the flag pole on Tuesday and Wednesday
during the day. For more information, inter-
ested parties can contact John Martin x5525
or Joel Hanisek x5491.

their notebook covers.”

Of course, not all Davidson men have for-
saken their academic future to fantasize about
Ms. Spears. Enlightened male Fred Johnson
°04 said, “Well, yeah, she’s cute and all, but
it’s not worth throwing my GPA down the
toilet, you know?”

Johnson was promptly pummeled by his
roommate, Bradley Whitehall ‘04, and sev-
eral friends who were holding a candlelight
vigil beside Whitehall’s poster of Ms. Spears.

“At least Bradley’s still somewhat coher-
ent,” Johnson commented as a nurse stitched
up a gash above his eyebrow. “There’s this
other guy on our hall [Peter Simmons ‘04]
who just keeps rocking back and forth, listen-
ing to her CD and muttering something.”

Simmons’ only comment on the issue was,
“I can’t believe she’s really coming. She’s
really coming. She’s really coming.”

} Peter Pan's Fashion Pages - Microsoft Internet

we Love web pages. ~ see

Wn duc com

>

A

is EPS Zi

tom Vee ee ee ere

SAMAR ARORA

teeta tty hee tt bi

ee ee ee

