painter and printmaker blends his ‘unique
coloration and design with ‘the figure in a
new exhibit at the William i. Van Every
Gallery of the Belk Visual Arts Center on
display from March 12 through April 22.
The Edward M. Smith Gallery will feature
work by Shepard Fairey c
peated and manipulated in i

noon-4 on neo « ose
holidays). Call. see
mation.

Fornes premiers play —

- Maria Irene Fornes, McGee Professor of
writing and artist-in-residence at David-
son, will direct a workshop production ofa
new work, based on Getrude Stein’s Auto-
biography of Alice B. Toklas. The play will
contain adult themes and content and is
recommended for mature audiences. Show
times are March 20-24 at 7:30 p.m., and
March 25 at 2 p.m. in the Black Box The-
ater of Cunningham Fine Arts. Building. 4
For reservations call eon between 2

By AMBER PARKE

Staff Writer

Rrirrriiinnnngggg...... You wake up
groggy, grumpy and fumbling for the phone:
“Hello?” No response. “Hello?” you say
again, this time the annoyance in your voice
a little more clear.

Davidson students have been noticing an
increase in these calls at such obscene hours
as 7,8 and 9am. And they’re not from your
mother. ,

“One morning I got three calls!” exclaimed
Alaina Beach, 04, “And each time I told them
‘no’ and they just called back again!” Lately
similar frustrations are being voiced by more
and more of the student body.

Gray Patterson took this issue to the SGA.
“At first, we thought that the college might be

- selling student numbers to these companies,”

he said. “But President Vagt told us that that
was not the case.” So Patterson took his
concerns to Marcia Makl, Davidson’s Direc-
tor of Networks and Systems.

“This is not the first time we have had to
deal with telemarketers,” Makl recalls. Two
years ago, AT&T was harassing both
Davidson students and professors. We had so
many complaints that we were able to call the
company and request that the school be re-

see Telemarketing. page 4

Fraternities - Sororities

Clubs - Student Groups
Student Groups-earn $1,000
$2,000 this semester with the easy
Campusfundraiser.com three hour
fundraising event.

No sales required.
Fundraising dates are filling
quickly,so call today!

Contact Campusfundraiser.com
at (888) 923-3238,
or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com.

‘Schedule a vents:

Friday March 23rd:

Saturday March 24th:

Sunday March 25th:

environmentally sound.

Monday March 26th:

Tuesday March 27th:

1:15 Nature Hunt with Ada Jenkins Children -
9:00 No Big Deal (Cast Iron Filter cover band), 900 Room
Campout on Belk Lawn after No Big Deal plays

9:00 am Campus wide service project on the Adopt-a-road strech of 1-77.
8:00 pm Movie on Belk Lawn - Pelican Brief

8:00 pm David Holthouser, Head of Physical Plant, speaks in the Morrison Room
on what Davidson has done, is doing, and will do to make Davidson more

7:00 pm Environmental Poetry Reading and Music on Union Patio

Come write letters in Chambers to support the National Artic Wildlife Refuge.

SGA welcomes new senators

Press RELEASE

Atlast week’s General Meeting of the SGA
Senate, Joey Harris swore in three new sena-
tors.

The first, Patrick Clark, was nominated by
Harris and confirmed by the Senate to fill an

open seat among Independent Senators.

Clark, a junior Spanish major from
Ridgeland, S.C., is now one of six senators

specifically representing the 743 Indepen-

dents on campus. The other five, who were
elected on September 25, are: Kells
Hetherington, Doug Santschi, Gray Lyons,
David Kang, Anthony Albert.

Clark will be filling the vacancy created by
Chris Lewis, a graduating senior who was
also elected in September.

“Patrick flat out has the right stuff,” said
Harris. “He’s hard-working, he’s sincere
about wanting to make a difference at David-
son through the SGA. All that came through
loud an@clear when I interviewed him, and I
look forward to having him on the Senate.”

Clark was confirmed by.a unanimous vote
on Tuesday night’s meeting, and will hold the
office through Category I elections next Feb-
ruary.

Also sworn in last Tuesday night were
Dave Moskowitz, elected by the brothers of

Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Morgan Strecker,
elected by the Davidson International Asso-
ciation.

Moskowitz is a sophomore hailing from
Wooster, Ohio. “I’m excited to be back in
Student Government after a couple of years
off,” said Moskowitz. “I hope that we can
accomplish some great things this year.”

Strecker, a sophomore from Paris, France,
was elected by the Davidson International
Association (formerly the International Stu-
dents’ Association) to succeed Elias Kruger,
who was recently elected vice-president of
DIA.

“SGA seems to be a place where a lot of
things can get done,” said Strecker. “I’m
really looking forward to being a part of it.
It’s an important thing for DIA, as a growing
organization, to have a representative on the
SGA.”

“Morgan is the ideal person at this time to
voice our ideas at SGA meetings,” said Carlos
Carreras, president of DIA. “She is good at
listening, she is good at conveying, she is
certainly an ideal choice for DIA’s SGA
senator.”

For further information, contact Mike
Anderson (mianderson@davidson.edu ,
x5029).

WELCOME TO
THE FINEST
CHINESE
CUISINE AT LAKE ©
NORMAN

40% OFF w .

PENINSULA CHINA BISTRO

“EACH DISH Is DELICIOUS

RATED *4%4/2 BY THE

WONDERING GOURMET
ve “THE LEADER”
NEWSPAPER

