Visiting director opens The

Robber Bridegroom this week

' By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Planes are hijacked with box cutters. They
crash into buildings. Our structures fall. We
die of diseases sent to us in the mail. My nail
clipper is confiscated at the airport, and I feel
like a criminal. What has happened to the
good old days of stuttering presidents? Of
missing interns? How I long for the
Unabomber.

Perhaps not the Unabomber, but maybe
one of his contemporaries. Not something
gentler, but something easier to grasp. Idon’t
want to turn my back and live a blissfully
ignorant life; I do want to turn my head for a
few moments and see, read, or experience
something that I can feign to comprehend.

On Monday I met with Keith Martin to
discuss the theater department’s production
of The Robber Bridegroom. Mr. Martin’s
and his colleagues’ premise for the musical —
adapted from a Eudora Welty novella, itself
based on a tale by the Brothers Grimm — was
simple: “...to lovingly recreate a rural
America during a kinder and simpler time”.
Indeed, The Robber Bridegroom (books and
lyrics by Alfred Uhry, music by Robert
Waldman) inhabits not an ideal world, but
one where motives are clear and where folk

dance, song, and tongue-in-cheek humor
reign.

This production is a celebration of the
talent in Davidson’s student body. Only two
of the eighteen cast members are theater
majors. And the number eighteen is itself
impressive: originally planning to cast only
twelve, Mr. Martin decided to fill the stage
with eighteen, a testament to the wealth of
talent in the audition pool and The School as
a whole. And a student, Bill Neville ‘03,
designed the play’s set, with its decaying
mansion, water-sprouting grotto, branch
bridge, and swing.

The story takes place in 1910, as a group
tells tales of their ancestors’ generation circa
1795. Before there were many steam engines
and heavy traffic on the Mississippi, Jamie
Lockhart (Luke Farmer ’04) leads the life of
a Natchez Trace bandit, stealing not only
material goods but also the affections of
Rosamund (Laura Filosi ’05). The premise
provides for a number of dance sequences
(choreographed by Martin) that add to the
lighthearted nature of the play.

What is to be valued in Uhry’s book is his
narrative technique. The musical brings back
the tradition of storytelling, a definitive char-
acteristic of America and, especially, South-
erm culture. And above that, this production

Luke Farmer 04 and Laura Filosi
‘05 make their Davidson debuts
in Bridegroom.

is timely not only because of recent events,
but also because of Eudora Welty’s death on
July 23, 2001. One of our premiere writers of
short stories and novels, Welty left an indel-
ible mark on American fiction. The cast and
crew dedicate their performances to her.

The Robber Bridegroom will play October
25 and 31 and November 1, 2, and 3 at 8 p.m.
Also, there is a 2 p.m. performance on Octo-
ber 28. All shows are in Hodson Hall in the
Cunningham Fine Arts Building. Tickets are
$12 for general admission, $10 for faculty,
staff, and senior citizens, and $8 for students.
Call (704)894-2340 for reservations and more
information.

From Hell to Hedwig: three must-see flicks

By Derek Lon
Arts and Living Editor

From Hell, playing everywhere, restores
some faith in Hollywood — the aforemen-
tioned Shrek being the only other notable
mainstream release this year. This stylistic
who-done-it joins Seven and Elizabeth as one
of the recent best in the genre, that gothic and
gruesome variety steeped in atmosphere and
murder. From Hell is the best looking film of
the year, and its screenplay doesn’t under-
mine its visual greatness. The Hughes Broth-
ers (Menace II Society) direct Johnny Depp in
their account of the Jack the Ripper legend.

Depp is Abberline, a brilliant detective that
relies heavily on psychic visions and opium.
During his investigation, Abberline comes
upon a number of colorful supporting charac-
ters, each adding to the film’s atmosphere.
Heather Graham’s prostitute, with her fiery
red hair and ever-present cleavage, is nothing
more than a prop, and even as that, she does
not go to waste. The Hughes exploit every
inch of the screen, actors included, to enrich
the atmosphere of their film. Graham and her
follow “unfortunates” bring sensuality, help-
lessness, and humanity to the movie. Then
there’s the always-wonderful Ian Holm. Here

he plays doctor to the Royal Family and
mentor to Abberline. To say that Holm has
an amazing range would be incorrect, yet,
each of his characters emerge as distinct
individuals. While its acting and script are
more than sound, From Hell excels with its
style.

Hedwig and the Angry Inch is an exuber-
ant, over-the-top rock musical. It’s part The
Rocky Horror Picture Show, part Waiting for
Guffman, and part Pink Floyd’s The Wall.
The “Hedwig” of the title refers to director
John Cameron Mitchell’s character, an East
German “slip of a girly boy”. And “The
Angry Inch” refers to Hedwig’s band, itself a
reference best explained by one song’s lyrics:
Six inches forward, five inches back/I’ve got
anangry inch! And indeed Hedwig does, but
it’s what he/she has to work with. Pronouns

. are especially problematic when discussing

Hedwig: the film exits beyond gender. Take
Hedwig’s partner, for example. Is she a he?
Oris he ashe? Maybe she was ahe, or maybe
he was a she? These questions are unan-
swered and are best ignored. ~~

This film is a masterful blend of transves-
tism, transsexuals, animation, trailer homes,
Greek mythology, religion, celebrity, music,
and, above all, comedy. The film’s funniest

moments involve a running joke about the
musical Rent. And to the ladies and gentle-
men who have seen Hedwig, you’ ll agree that
we can never look at a carwash the same way
again. Hedwig and the Angry Inchis playing
at AMC Concord Mills.

Finally, we have Mulholland Drive, David
Lynch’s film about Hollywood. That’s as
specific as a wise interpretation of the movie
can be. In fact, saying that it is about Holly-
wood is not even wise. It’s best that nothing
be said about Mulholland Drive’s topic,
thougl»much will be said. Mulholland Drive
works as an experience, one that we take in all
atonce. It’s more like a picture than a movie.
Yes, characters exist. Yes, there seems to be
a story. But do these elements form a cohe-
sive whole? Most certainly not. I’mnoteven
going to describe the story. That task would
be like drawing an accurate picture of God.

What I do know is that Mulholland Drive
pins you to our seat, makes you laugh, makes
your heart leap into your throats, and if you
enjoy watching beautiful women make love,
then it will get the attention of your gonads, as
well. Mulholland Drive is a sexy, frighten-
ing, illogical masterpiece. Now playing at
The Manor in Charlotte.

Nothing Shocking that Jane’s still rocking

STERLING ROZEAR

Staff Writer

While most of you were on planes or in cars
headed home for fall break, I was surrounded

by a haze of marijuana, exotic dancers, and-

violent Jane’s Addiction fans. Sucks for
you. The quintessential alternative rock
band’s return to the stage was an amazing
experience. And in case you’re wondering,
Dave Navarro, Perry Farrell, and Stephen
Perkins definitely still have it.

All of this took place on Friday, October

12, at Verizon Wireless Amphitheater. The -

show started with Perry Farrell wearing a

huge dress, complete with several dancers
underneath, mimicking the laid back, ambi-
ent mood of their first songs. While the band
rocked songs like “Ted, just admit it” and
“Classic Girl”, the dancers spread out among
the audience and grooved on little stages built
among the seats. Navarro’s balls-to-the-wall
playing and rock and roll attitude, combined
with Farrell’ s over-the-top theatrics and danc-
ers (men and women). made for an. intense
show.

The band even made an effort for the fans
on the lawn. Halfway through their set, they
moved out to a special stage in the middle of
the amphitheatre, and played a stripped down

set, including “Jane Says” and a song from
Navarro’s solo project. They then returned
to the stage for another forty-five minutes or

_ So. For their encore, Perry Farrell spouted

patriotic messages about courage, and the
remaining members of the band played a
complex rhythm on three drums. If anyone
had questions as to whether the band could
still put on a strong show after years of being
separated, the answer is a strong “yes”. This
concert was two hours of the best alternative
rock I’ve ever seen. If you get achance to see
them on the remainder of this tour, don’ tlet it
pass you by.

Ugly Duck, J5:
Keepin’ it real in
the rap world

By MICHAEL GALDO
Staff Writer

According to KRS-One, “Rap is some-
thing you do, hip-hop is something you live.”
For a long time I felt that all the rap music on
the radio was garbage and was simply a
commercial tool. The only genuine hip-hop
music wasn’t making appearances on TRL,
but was crafted in makeshift studios and
being sold in small stores and over the internet.
It was being spun by DJs in little clubs, not
blasted on the radio in between P. Diddy’s
newest single and some remix by Jermaine
Dupri.

However, recently I realized two things:
commercial rap has its place in this world and
good hip-hop music is out there if you have
the time to look for it. I remember sitting in
my dorm room last semester and realizing
that I liked Trick Daddy’s single “Take it to
tha House.” That was a sacrilege. I wasn’t
supposed to enjoy listening to Trick Daddy,
The Hot Boys, or anything that even smelled
like Master P. But those groups are fun. They
don’t have social message, and they’ re defi-
nitely not original. It’s entertainment. As a
result, I stopped myself from preaching at
people about their music choice. If they enjoy
it listening to commercial rap, then they should
listen to whatever they want.

Nevertheless, I do feel that I should at least
expose people to some of the actual hip-hop
that has come out in the last few years, to
groups that have anelement of originality and
something to say besides “look at my ice, my
hoes, and my ride.” Two groups out of LA
that everyone should know are Ugly Duck-
ling and Jurassic 5. Ugly Duckling formed in
the mid-90s and adopted their name because
of the contrast between their style and that of
the California-driven gangsta’ rap that domi-
nated the 90s. The most prevalent distinction
between Ugly Duckling and other groups is
their lyrics. Their creative and often humor-
ous lyrics suchas, “we’ ve been eatin’ breathin’
and sleepin’ hip hop since way back/When
shoe laces were fat and Michael Jackson was
black/So when we cook up a track and attack
like Red Sonia/We’re gonna lay it on ya...”
allow the group to recapture the emphasis on
fun that one can find in old school groups like
the Sugar Hill Gang and Afrika
Bambaata.

Jurassic 5 also turns away from the gangsta’
rap style, but their uniqueness comes to the
surface as their producers Cut Chemist and
DJ Nu-Mark mold the beats that the group
raps and sings over. Jurass Finish First, Qual-
ity Control, and World of Entertainment are
three tracks that best demonstrate the group’s
talent and originality on the turntables and on
the mic.

There are many other groups thatare slightly
more mainstream and commercial that have
put out solid albums. The most obvious ex-
ample that I am sure everyone has heard is
Outkast. Some have described their music as
“otherground” since it is no longer under-
ground due to its commercial success, but
still retains that fresh spirit that characterizes
underground hip-hop. Other talented artists
are Hi-Tek, Talib Kwali, Common, Cormega,
Dilated Peopled, and Camp Lo. All of these
groups have made money and achieved some
popularity, but don’t feel the need to remind
of us that every two lines in their songs. They
still sound new and original and have man-
aged to remain relatively un-influenced by
the recording industry.
