Bree’: S 21 pee leads Davidson to w

By BuRGIN | Harbin
Sports Editor

What doesn’t kill you only makes you -

stronger. Amen, says Wildcat basketball.

With Emeka Erege on the bench since the
first of Janurary and
Jason Dickens
sporting. a cast,
when Wayne Ber-
nard left last
Saturday’s game
with a sprained
ankle and didn’t return to host The Citadel
Monday night, some thought it was the death
knell for the struggling Wildcats.

But the Wildcats made some of their most
creative adjustments of the season to com-

pensate for the loss of their power trio and
topped The Citadel 71-58, ending the
Bulldog’s five-game winning streak.

“To have three guys in street clothes and
still win so decisively shows what kind of
team we can be,” head coach Bob McKillop
said in his postgame radio interview.

A motley crue of Chris Pearson, Nick
Booker, Matin Ides, Michael Bree, and Peter
Anderer started the game and three walkons
enjoyed playing time as Davidson used the
most original rotation of the entire season.

But it got the job done—impressively.

“This roster played as well as any Davidson
roster has played all year,” said McKillop.

One standout was Michael Bree, whose

game-high 21 points Monday night almost ~

doubled his previous carreer-best of 12. He

also fired off a game-high six assists.

“This was Michael Bree’s best game as a

Davidson player,” said McKillop. “He
showed his potential to. be an outstanding
point guard.”

“Really everyone stepped up,”
humble Bree. “I just hit my shots.”

If Bree was the methodically potent work-
horse, then Michel Lusakueno was the fire-
cracker. The 6-10 sophomore forward sparked
the Belk Arena crowd with a second half
dunk following a searing cross-court feed
from Anderer, who fired the pass to Lusakueno
that set up the slam.

Plan to see this lineup again this weekend
when the Wildcats (12-16,.6-9) conclude the
regular season Saturday in a nationally tele-
vised game against College of Charleston.

said a

One shad most heated rivalrie! t “
__ the Southern Conference comes to —
Belk Arena Saturday afternoon when
| Davidson hosts College of Charleston.

Ground Zero: Saturday, February 24,
2 p.m., Belk Arena

After suffering its first Southern Con-
ference loss ever last season at the hands
of Davidson, College of Charleston will
be looking for revenge when it takes the
court in this nationally televised game
(ESPN2). But Michael Bree and the
Wildcats think they know the secret to
toppling the South Division king. “We’re
going to attack as a team,” he said.

Senior ace ‘has evolved into an outstanding college pitcher’

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

Wes Self solidified his place in Wildcats .

athletic history last Thursday when he tossed
the first nine-inning no hitter in Davidson
history.

The record-setting performance is un-
doubtedly the highlight of Self’s career, one
that spans four years and is considered among
the best in school history.

Self is among Davidson’s career top 10 in
wins, strikeouts, innings, starts and walks per
nine innings—and the season is~only four
games old.

It all began four years ago, when Self
visited the school for a pitching clinic.

“From his efforts at that clinic, he jumped
to the top of our recruiting list,” said head
coach Dick Cooke.

Self says that similarly, Davidson jumped
to the top of his list of schools.

“T came down fora visit when I was a senior

and I basically fell in love with everything
about it,” he said.
One year after leading Grayson High School

in Independence, Va., to a state champion-_

ship, Self enrolled at Davidson.

He’s been a fixture in the rotation ever
since. As a freshman, he struggled to a 2-7
record and a 7.70 earned run average.

But he improved steadily over the next two
years, turning into the staff’s ace pitcher in

‘ 2000 by compiling a 7-3 record and an ERA

of 2.97.

“He has evolved into an outstanding col-
lege pitcher,” said Cooke. “He has great
knowledge of the game and of pitching. He is
a great example of what a Davidson student-
athlete can be.”

Self, a pre-med/biology major with a 3.89
grade-point average, has been rewarded for
his efforts. He has earned the most valuable
pitcher award each of his three years.

In addition to being named a Louisville
Slugger National Player of the Week on Feb-

ruary. 19, player of the week, Self earned
second-team Academic All American honors
in 2000.

Self led the Wildcats in wins, strikeouts,
and ERA last season despite missing three
weeks due to knee surgery. He seems to have
a knack for opening days. He struck out nine
batters in the opener last season against High
Point.

This summer he played for the Torrington
Twisters in the NECBL and went 4-3 witha
2.65 ERA and 61 strikeouts in 60 innings.

He is expected to finish his career in the
top-five in wins and strikeouts at Davidson.

Just as importantly, he will provide the
type of leadership that Cooke says a team
must have to succeed.

“Wes is a terrific competitor, Cooke said.
“He wants the ball in the big game and does
a great job of attacking hitters.”

‘When a team has confidence in a pitcher
like this team has in Wes, everybody just
seems to play better.”

, Sports Information
Self on the mound

Offensive explosion gives Wildcats sweep over Mt. St. Mary’s

Davidson 16, Mt. St: Mary’s 2

By Hinps Howarp
Staff Writer

Dormant in Thursday’s season-opening win
over High Point, the baseball team’s offense
enjoyed a coming-out party that lasted all
weekend,

The result: Three more wins, 42 more runs,
and its best start since 1990.

In Davidson’ first at-bat on Saturday, Ryan
Stroker led off with a slicing single through
the left side of the infield. After Jack Purcell
walked and Tim Frend singled to load the
¢ bases, James Marino drew a full count walk to
score the first run of the game.

But that was only the beginning. Billy
Ryan followed with a sacrifice fly, scoring
Purcell. Cassidy Lundin followed witha single
to centerfield, scoring Frend from second
base and moving Marino to third. Then Dylan
Deal ripped a singled through the right side,
scoring Marino.

When the dust settled, Davidson had batted
around and scored 6 runs on five hits.

The slugfest continued throughout the game
as the Wildcats scored in six of their eight
innings at the plate, against each of the five
pitchers they faced.

They finished with a whopping 16 runs on
19hits, 17 of which were singles. Frend alone
was 5-6 with five runs and an RBI double.

“I was very pleased with the way our
batters were patient and let the game come to

1 ee Bienen te ei ee RAT RE MRS

ecg OREN.

Mike Anderson

Sophomore Derrick Wolpert (1-0) earned a spot on this year’s start-
ing lineup after a stellar freshman campaign. In this weekend’s first
game against Mt. St. Mary’s, Wolpert pitched 7-1/3 innings and
tossed a career best nine strikeouts.

them, said head coach Dick Cooke after the
game.

The Mountaineers had no such luck on
offense against Davidson starter Derrik
Wolpert (1-0) who threw 7 and 1/3 solid
innings with a career-best nine strikeouts.
Mount St. Mary’s finally got on the board in
the eighth on a triple when Stroker lost the
ball inthe sun. Wolpert was relieved after that
and freshman Brian Akin made his first ca-
reer appearance, finishing off the Mountain-
eers without allowing any more runs despite
hitting a batter and throwing two wild pitches.

146

DAVIDSON’S RUN TOTAL IN ITS FIRST FOUR CONTESTS

12

OPPONENTS’ COMBINED RUN TOTAL

Parvin seemed to have it going until the
fifth, when the Mountaineers scored five runs
to close the deficit to one. ;

From: the chatter in the dugout, a calm
voice was overheard saying, “Let’s get it
back, fellas.”

They did just that, scoring three runs on
three hits to. make it 11-7.

Tim Frend closed the game, retiring each
of the four batters he faced.

Said Parvin: “It’s good to win, plus this

weekend, I think we had only 3 errors total. .

That shows that we have worked hard in
practice and have put ourselves in a position
to win.”
Davidson 15, Mt. St. Mary’s 3

In the second game on an unusually chilly

day, Davidson again gave the Mountaineers
the illusion of hope, allowing three runs in the
first inning.

But a 14- run barrage in the second inning,
highlighted by Tim Frend’s grand slam,
knocked out four Mountaineers pitchers and
effectively ended the game.

Hard throwing starter Mark Wells (1-0)
was the lucky recipient of all of the run
support. He pitched five innings, allowing
three runs on five hits. Erskine Wells and
freshman Matt Dellinger held the Mountain-
eers scoreless over the final two innings to
seal the victory.

“We played pretty solid defensively, which
allowed us to get our starters deep into the
games, and that was really the most important
thing we.did.this weekend,” said Cooke.
Davidson 11, Mt. St. Mary’s 7

Due to heavy rain. late Friday, the sched-
uled doubleheader was postponed: until the
following day. So, with little time to cel-
ebrate their pummeling of Mount St. Mary’s,.
the Cats went at it again at noon on Sunday
with senior Jeremiah Parvin on the hill.

The big righty often got behind early in
counts, but was able to get out of jams before
any damage could be done. He allowed two
runs in the first inning before settling down
with three straight scoreless innings.

Every time the Mountaineers mounted a
threat, the Wildcats responded.

They reeled of three runs on a leadoff
homerun by Ryan Stroker and a two-run shot
three batters later by James Marino.

After an RBI single by Billy Ryan in the
third, and a four-run spurt capped by Dylan
Dean’s two-run double, — opened up
an 8-2 lead.
