THE DavipsoNnIAN

“New phenomenon” of sub-free

housing proves popular on campus

Sub-free, from page 1

Furthermore, a petition signed by 24 men was
presented to RLO requesting additional space
for sub-free housing.

In response to this increased upperclass-
man demand, RLO moved quickly to desig-
nate more spaces. According to Marsicano,
upperclass women will have substance-free
housing in Basement and First Cannon (a
total of 34 spaces) and upperclass men will
have substance-free housing on Second Can-
non (a total of 26 spaces).

Substance-free housing is a relatively new

phenomenon on Davidson’s campus, and has"

only been offered for a few years. As a larger
number of sub-free freshman prepare to be-
come sophomores, it follows that a larger
number of upperclassmen are likely to con-
tinue their interest in sub-free housing.

Living on a substance-free hall involves
making and keeping certain pledges to the
other residents. First, residents promise not to
bring alcohol, tobacco, or drugs onto the hall.
Secondly, though residents are not prohibited
from drinking elsewhere, residents pledge to
not be drunk on the hall. Marsicano specu-
lates that the “cleaner, less damage-prone and
more pleasant environment” of substance-
free halls may play arole in attracting a larger
number of students.

Many students currently living on sub-
stance free halls cite this reason as their

deciding factor for living where they do.

Mary Square ‘05, a freshman on 2" Belk,
explains that it’s nice to have “cleaner bath-
rooms” and to not have to “worry about
having tocare fora person who has consumed
too much alcohol.”

She also appreciates that “if people are
being loud and obnoxious, at least you know
it’s not because they are under the influence,

CE

Hours
7:30-5:30 M-F

CORNELIUS, NC

| PHONE - (704) 892-6590 R
~ FAX - (704) 892-6596 _—

8:00-12:00 Sat.
Let’s Go ’Cats!
dmoccsrom Firestone DAYTON > DUNLOP

so you can ask them to stop.”

Finally, Marsicano suspects that “‘a change
in the assignment process probably increased
interest.” For the past two years, sub-free
housing was treated like a theme hall and was
assigned to a dorm hall after the size of the
group had been determined.

According to Marsicano, “interested indi-
viduals may not have had an opportunity to
sign up” because the theme halls tended to
consist of a group of people who were already
friends. Marsteano adds that “some people
might have been reluctant to sign up when
they didn’t know exactly where the group
would be located.”

The change in this process is that RLO has
already designated the locations — recently
renovated Cannon Hall - and will fill the
spaces according to lottery number.

Marsicano points out that the changes made
still do not provide additional singles, but that
“people interested in singles can cluster in-
formally with like-minded classmates in West
doubles or in the apartments and have a sub-
free housing experience.

Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

News|

LAKE NORMAN

18705 STATESVILLE RD.

Dear Student Body,

After last week’s SGA meeting in which we discussed the red bikes and
academic policies on campus, the senators have decided upon several
changes to current policies in hopes of making life on campus a little
better. The senators first discussed a way to make sure that the commu-
nity red bikes, when re-released after Easter Break, wouldn’tbe destroyed
again. From now on, all of the bikes will be collected on Friday afternoon
and kept in a storage area on Ridge Road, then released again on Sunday ~

‘night for public use. The reasoning behind this was that many Senators

felt that is was during these weekend hours that most of the destruction
occurred. I'd like to urge all Davidson students to treat these bikes with
respect. .

Secondly, the SGA discussed a broad range of Academic Policies on
campus, which includes: attendance policies, the assigning of advisors to
freshmen, number of minors availability, and the credit given to lab
classes vs. the credit given to non-lab classes. At this week’s meeting we
plan to further discuss the courses of action we as a body would like to take
in regards to these four areas. If you are interested in any of these topics
please feel free to discuss them with your SGA senators, (they have just
been (re-) elected so they’II be looking for things to do) or come to the SGA
meeting on Thursday night at 9 pm in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

I'd also like to thank all of the students that voted in Monday’s elections,
and congratulations to everyone who was elected or re-elected.

Sincerely,
Grady Patterson
SGA President

Receive A 5%
Discount With A
Valid Davidson
College ID

Offer applies to
faculty, staff and
Students!

Exit 30
Davidson

FULL LINE OF
GENERAL REPAIR
WORK
ON FOREIGN &
AMERICAN

Baker
Sports
Complex

NC 115

Exit 28
Cornelius

AUTOS
Quality Repair
By People
Who Care!!!

*

US 21.
Statesville
Road

