10

~ Wepnespay, —
Fesruary 13 , 2002

Oscar nominations announced

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

Renée Zellweger isn’t supposed to be an
Oscar nominated actress. Neither is Halle
Berry. They’re the actresses who go to the
Academy Awards ceremonies to look really
good and enjoy the show. Always the wed-
ding guests, never the bride or bridesmaids.

When Bridget Jones’s Diary was released
in April, Zellweger
received universal
praise for her perfor-
mance: critics found
ithard to believe that
the native Texan
transformed herself
so convincingly into
the shapelier British
protagonist of the
comedy.’ Few, how-
ever, had ideas of an
Oscar nomination.
And prior to
Monster’s Ball,
Halle Berry wasn’t
an “actress”; she was
the glamorous
movie star who
bared her breasts in
Swordfish.

And then came
February 12, 2002,
when both actresses,
along with a slew of
othermembersofthe March 24
film community, became nominees for the
74" Annual Academy Awards. In addition
to Berry and Zellweger, the other leading
actress nominees include Judi Dench (Iris),
Nicole Kidman (Moulin Rouge), and Sissy
Spacek (Jn the Bedroom). In addition to
Zellweger’s nomination, the other big sur-
prise in this category was the exclusion of
Tilda Swinton for her work in The Deep
End.

The leading actor nominees were rela-
tively expected. Last year’s winner Russell
Crowe is again a nominee for his perfor-

“Water TA,

The Oscars will be presented on

mance in A Beautiful Mind. This year is the
third in a row that Crowe received a nod in the
leading actor category. Nominated two pre-
vious times, Sean Penn earned recognition
for his role in Am Sam. Denzel Washington
received his fifth Oscar nomination for his
role in Training Day, and the Academy also
recognized Will Smith (Ali) and Tom
Wilkinson (Jn the Bedroom).
The supporting actress category was all too
predictable, as well.
Previous winners
Maggie Smith
(Gosford Park) and
Marisa Tomei (Jn the
Bedroom) join Jenni-
fer Connelly (A Beau-
tiful Mind), Helen
Mirren (Gosford Park),
and Kate Winslet (Jris)
on the nominee list.
The biggest surprise,
even bigger than
Zellweger’s nomina-
tion, is Ethan Hawke’s
supporting actor nod
for Training Day.
(Hawke starred in two
of the year’s best mov-
-ies, but neither of them
isnamed Training Day.
Those two films are
Tape and Waking Life,
both from director Ri-
chard Linklater.) Per-
haps overshadowed by
the ferocity of his costar’s performance,
Hawke’s performance was_neither praised
nor criticized until Tuesday morning. His
fellow nominees.include Jim Broadbent (/ris),
Ben Kingsley (Sexy Beast), Ian McKellan
(The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship ofthe
Ring), and Jon Voight (Ali). It’s a shame,
though, that Steve Buscemi was not nomi-
nated for Ghost World.
The directing nominees are probably the

2002

www.oscar.com

see Oscars, page 9

Porgy and Bess charms audience

By ERIN RAFFETY
Staff Writer

A magnificent addition to Davidson’ s cel-
ebration of Black History Month, Porgy and
Bess, presented by Living Arts, Inc., echoed
through the brand new Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall on Thursday, Feb. 7 and Friday,
Feb. 8 at 7:30 p.m. The opera by George
Gershwin, DuBose and Dorothy Heyward,
and Ira Gershwin tells the passionate story
of acripple, Porgy of Catfish Row, who falls
for a doomed prostitute named Bess. Unfor-
tunately, the two share only a few emotion-
filled scenes together before Porgy is whisked
off to prison, and Bess runs off with the local
“happy dust’ dealer. Porgy returns to find
the love of his life missing, and the curtain
falls as he begins the journey to win her
back.

The opera was sung in the native Gullah
language, a Creole mix of English and Afri-
can languages that originated on Africa’s
slave coast and survived in the small fishing
and farming villages along the Atlantic coast.
Despite the language variation, the emo-
tions of the performers,.clearly conveyed by
heartfelt body language and soaring voices,
were undoubtedly powerful and worthy of
praise. The dynamic chorus of stunning
sopranos and velvety tenors demonstrated
the anticipated prowess of the Duke Family

performance hall, which for the first time
hosted a small pit orchestra as well as a
sizeable cast of esteemed; internationally ac-
claimed vocalists. ,
Besides the physical grandeur of the stage,
the set, and the amplitude of the sound, audi-
ence members marveled at the musical ge-
nius of the opera itself. Captivating opening
numbers such as “Summertime” and “A
Woman is a Sometime Thing” involved all
talented cast members and displayed a catchy
playfulness. Perhaps the most memorable
songs, “I Got Plenty of Nuttin’” and “Bess,

You is My Woman Now,” both in scene ©

three, are particularly true to the Gullah dia-
lect, and were belted out by a slender, soulful
Porgy. Their bluesy sway characterizes the
entire opera, propelling it to a poignant, touch-
ing conclusion. Porgy is a gentle, faithful
character'amidst poverty and necessity; he is
the force of prevailing persistence despite his
seemingly shy, sweet demeanor. He wins the
hearts of the audience as he peddles his cart
off into the horizon in search of Bess, his
beloved woman.

An American classic, Porgy and Bess, was
a thrill to experience in our very own perfor-
mance hall. Living Arts, Inc. delivered so-
phisticated performances of intense drama
and bluesy tunes that will surely be remem-
bered for their amplitude and expression.

The Who’s Tommy at Ovens

By Gavin WEBER
Arts and Living Editor

This past weekend Charlotte’s Ovens Au-
ditorium hosted the national tour of the Broad-
way-scale production of The Who’s Tommy.
The show was performed Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday nights.

Rock band The Who wrote Tommy in 1969.
With the show’s loud and synthesized sound,
Tommy brought the band to international
stardom. A rock opera, Tommy tells the story
of a young child who witnesses a traumatiz-
ing. The child, Tommy, becomes “a deaf,
dumb, and blind kid” as a result of his expe-
rience.

While in the company of his abusive cousin,
Tommy is exposed to pinball, and he imme-
diately develops a skill at the game. As oné
lyric explains, “I ain’t seen anything like him
in any amusement hall/That deaf, dumb and
blind kid sure plays a mean pinball.”

Just listening to the album is a terrific
experience. With its exciting lyrics and Pete
Townshend’s innovative sounds, the Tommy
soundtrack is a musical triumph. But with the
addition of characters and other visualiza-
tions the rock opera completely transforms
into something more.

British director Ken Russell adapted the

rock opera for the screen in a 1975 movie that -

was relatively successful. Many fans of The
Who, however, were less than satisfied, De-
spite the less than enthusiastic reception,
Tommy became the inspiration for many bal-
lets and musicals, most memorably its 1990s

run on Broadway.

I attended Friday evening’s performance.
With its strong acting, effective lighting, and
always entertaining music, the show was
exciting and filled with energy. The cast
consisted of twenty-four performers whose
voices filled the auditorium with great voices.
However, at times, their vocals felt out of
touch with Townshend’s original score. But
the instrumentals, produced by a band and
orchestra in the pit kept the audience enter-
tained and excited throughout the show.

The set design done by Edward Pierce and
lighting of Jeffrey S. Koger were incredible.
The stage was small, but through the use of
Tommy’s entrancing mirrors and the oil-rig-
like structures, a three dimensional world
was created to give the audience a sense of a
complete set. By keeping the set simple, the
show’ screators allowed the audience to imag-
ine the world of Tommy. The lighting comple-
mented the set wonderfully, giving this pro-
duction psychedelic and entrancing patterns
echoing Tommy’s mind. The costumes,
which were a combination of 1960’s rock
wear and today’s fashiobanle pants, worked
well with the choreography to keep the show
exciting and fun.

The production that visited Oven’s Audi-
torium last weekend was a great show. that
certainly did the classic rock opera justice.
The Who would be proud of this rendition.
More importantly, however, Tommy’s Char-
lotte stop marked a wonderful addition to
area’s arts calendar.

Apply to Teach For America.
www.teachforamerica.org
Application deadline - Feb 21, 2002

THE

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE

“FINEST mutT
_EVEWEARINTHE

Yammy BNTHEMOST

EXPERIENCED —
JEAMINTRE.

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUMBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.0. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.
EVE EXAMINATIONS BY DR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE «

19420 JETTON RO. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUC
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUK - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Continuing our policy of offering
Davidson Students, Faculty & Employees a
20% Discount on Eyewear
and Special Prices on Eye exams.

