By RicHaRD Guyer ‘06
Columnist

The Republicans won a historic victory last week that, along
with the Republican Revolution of 1994, is one of the greatest
midterm victories ever in Congress for either major party.

The question now is what this victory will mean for the 108"
Congress, the Bush Administration and the future of American
politics.

The Republican legislative agenda, spearheaded by tax cuts,
Social Security reform, market based prescription drug coverage
for seniors and a new Department of Homeland Security (unen-
cumbered by labor union contracts), should have many of its key
components become law.

Other measures, such as bans on human cloning and partial
birth abortion, somewhat limited torte reform and a national en-
ergy policy also stand a good chance of being enacted.

With conservatives solidly in control of all three branches of
government, there should be little meaningful opposition to any
of these initiatives.

The newly Republican Senate also can be expected to rapidly
confirm many of President Bush’s judicial nominees, who until
this time have been left in limbo by the obstructionist tactics of
Senators Tom Daschle and Patrick Leahy.

Itis only a matter of time before highly qualified, conservative

judges like Miguel Estrada take their seats on the federal bench.

The biggest danger for President Bush and his allies in Con-
gress will be adopting too conservative of an agenda, which could
galvanize liberals and alienate moderates who are currently lean-
ing right. On the other hand, the GOP must be cautious not to
adopttoo centrist a stance, which would give its conservative base
no reason to go to the polls in 2004.

The results of last week’ s balloting have also served to solidify
the South as a Republican stronghold. A trend that began more
than 30 years ago was made complete by the GOP sweep in
Georgia, which until last week was the last Democratic strong-
hold in Dixie. The list of prominent Republicans from the South
(George and Jeb Bush, Dick Armey, Trent Lott, Newt Gingrich,
Tom DeLay, Jesse Helms and Phil Graham, to name a few) is
impressive and growing.

The Northeast and Midwest appear to be political no-mans’-
lands, and the Pacific Coast states remain firmly Democratic.

There ought to be much progress over the next two years, and
(extremely) early indicators are that 2004 will be another solid
year for the GOP. Since the Reagan presidency, Republicans
have become very good at winning elections.

If they want their success to continue, they must become good
at something the Democrats mastered when Roosevelt was in the
White House: implementing their agenda without alienating the
voters.

Voters want help from legislators, no matter which party they’re from

By PETER Lipsetr
Guest Columnist

Think back to your best Christmas ever, that year when you got
everything you wanted, even the toys you weren’t expecting. For
the Republican Party, this year’s Election Day was similar to that
perfect Christmas. The GOP not only retained its dominance of
governorships, but it surprisingly strengthened its majority in the
House and reclaimed control of the Senate. Add these victories to
the party’s strong grip on the executive and judicial branches and
you can see why Republicans have been all smiles lately.

Last Tuesday’s electoral upset was not a foregone conclusion
by any means. The polls and the
pundits went back and forth over
who would ultimately prevail.
Everyone knew that if the Repub-
licans gained seats, this election
would buck one of the most sa-
cred theories in political science —
a first term president’s party will
always lose seats in a midterm
election. Period. FDR was the last
to buck this trend, way back in the
30s. To either take control of the
Senate or to maintain control of
the House would have been a ma-
jor coup. Asking for both would merely be wishful thinking.

_ Careful what you wish for, though, because you might just have
to legislate with it. Since they did get their way (and more) on
Election Day, the Congressional Republicans can essentially do
anything they want over the next two years. Following their own
strict agenda, however, could make them lose sight of what
Americans want. If that happens, the Democrats will make them
pay in the high-stakes 2004 election. If power swells the GOP’s
heads and Americans feel ignored by the Republican Congress,
voters stand to offer the Democrats the same opportunity they’ ve
now given to the GOP.

Americans are not intrinsically
Republican or Democrat. They
just want to feel that someone is
listening to them, standing up
for them and protecting them.

What does the GOP need to do? First, it has to remember that
the Democrats are not the enemy, as much of a nuisance as they
will be. For Americans to respect Congress’s decisions, Repub-
licans need to compromise with Democrats just enough to keep
Democrats from yelling too loud when they don’t get their way.
If Republicans completely gloss over Democratic concerns on
every issue simply because they can, it will come back to haunt
them in the future.

Second, while extending the olive branch with one hand, the
Republicans should steal away some traditionally Democratic is-
sues with the other. The Dems are still reeling from Bush stealing
education from them, and something similar may happen with the
prescription drug issue. Why not
do the same thing with a few key
environmental or globalization
issues? Then, in 2004, the GOP
can campaign with the laundry
list of things that Democrats al-
ways promised but could never
deliver. Your average American
doesn’t care who comes through
with what they want, so long as
someone does, and that someone
usually gets rewarded.

Finally, congressional Repub-
licans have to put some distance

between themselves and the President, despite the fact that many
candidates are indebted to him for their victory. Congress will
face an image problem if it appears to rubberstamp everything
from the White House. Even in situations where the president gets
what he wants in the end, honest debate and careful consideration
in Congress will go a long way with the voters.

Americans are notintrinsically Republican or Democrat. They

ajust want to feel that someone is listening to them, standing up for

them, and protecting them. The Republicans have an incredible
opportunity to provide that kind of support over the next two
years, and, if they succeed, for many years to come.

but not forgotten

A long time ago... In.acourt far, far away...

Itwasa land of promise. Aland of opportunity. Patterson Court
circa 2000.

The Court was infinitely more fun then than it is now.

Any night of the week you could find a Beirut game some-
where. Usually there were multiple games, at multiple houses.
Andin general, you were always welcome. Even 8 aa
I should know, I was one. It was great.

. Afterthe festivities wound down, youcould gotoaplace called
the Outpost. Underclassmen have only heard the myth that is the
Outpost. Most upperclassmen can hardly bear to think about it
without getting a tad sentimental.

The Outpost, for those of you who don’t know, was essentially
ahouse on the Court that served overpriced, greasy food till 3 a.m.
Which makes it not unlike the Union Café we have today. But the
similarities between the two end there.

First, the Outpost was actually on the Court, which not only
made it more accessible from your starting point, but also gave it
less of an administrative feel. Youcould goto the Outpost inebri-
ated without the fear of getting in trouble because you made a
drunken ass of yourself. Most people there were in the same state
as you, and those who weren’ t at least understood what they were
getting themselves into.

It was like a meeting place for anyone who was out that night.
A congregation of partygoers if you will. At the end of your
evening, you went to the Outpost and chilled for a while—at-
tempting to sober up before bed. You never knew whom you
might run into. There was even the possibility of seeing a fight.
Good luck witnessing a nice drunken brawl in the Cafe.

The Court is a shell of its former self, and I blame it all on the
new Union.

Don’t get me wrong. Knobloch i is a great place and a vast im-
provement over the old building. But since the place opened, the
Patterson Court scene has declined immeasurably. Why has this
happened?

Conspiracy theorists (me) would claim that it’s all part of a
concerted effort by the administration to increase Davidson’s
sense of “community” by making us all a member of the “Frater-
nity of the Union (FU).”

‘Think aboutit. The advent of the Union saw a sudden enforce-
ment of the drinking games rule. It signaled the death knell for
above-ground Beirut. It was like losing a close friend.

Then the powers-that-be decided to close the Outpost for good.
“The new Café can not only replace the old Outpost, but exceed
it,” they said. The food is, more or less, the same. But the Café
is not the Outpost, and it never will be.

It seems a little counter-productive to increase the “Davidson
community” by closing a building where basically everyone felt
welcome. Itdidn’t matter who you were, and itdidn’t matter what
house you were in.

Thenew Café still provides greasy, overpriced quesadillas. But
the atmosphere is wrong, and the walk is too damn long. I miss
the Outpost more than I miss nightly Beirut games. I’m not kid-
ding.

Unfortunately those days are long gone, and they’ re not likely
toreturn. The completion of “Big Knob” ended an era. The Court
still offers things the Union can’t (free Beast). But I still miss the
Outpost, and I’m probably never going to get over it.

Trust the IMF? Not likely for Latin American nations

By Ricarpo Ampupia ‘04
Columnist

There has been anoticeable trend in Latin America towards the
leftoverrecent years. Butthisis not your typical “Democrat-left”
trend. No, this is much farther.

It is in part because a majority of Latin Americans became
disappointed with the “neo-liberal” model that recommends
opening up trade barriers and diminishing government interven-
tion. The people are not satisfied with the results. Chile, the coun-
try that has adopted this model most “successfully,” has one of
the world’s highest levels of economic inequality.

It is also uncertain to Latin Americans whether organizations
such as the IMF and the World Bank, great monopolies of eco-
nomic development theory worldwide, are sensitive to social
conditions in the region,

. Forexample, when Argentina, went into economic disaster in, .

2000, there was a great deal of social unrest and despair. And
rightly so: Argentina has a great amount of both natural and hu-
man resources (with high levels of education), it has relatively
solid social and government institutions (which enforced to a
certain degree) and still, to the eyes of the average Argentinean,
the country is unable to develop.

Thousands of people were losing their jobs and companies
were going bankrupt. The pegging of the Argentine peso to the
dollar, once supported by the IMF, explained this in part. What
did the IMF do? It kept asking the Argentine government to cut
spending on social programs, to give out less money to the prov-
inces, to make the labor market more flexible (to make it legally
easier to fire workers when necessary), to aggressively liberate
the peso with respect to the dollar (making thousands of Argen-
tines poorer overnight) and to keep paying down external debt.

Though it is true that the IMF needs to see a credible economic
program from a government before giving out loans, it should be

less stubborn. Its policies are often politically unfeasible. People
already are angry because of the current situation. To ask a gov-
ernment to strangle the majority even more is inconsiderate.

Even if the IMF’s policies were carried out successfully, they
would clearly lead to the monopolization of the most important
industries in Latin America. This would lead, eventually, to very
undemocratic systems, as these monopolies tend to work closely
with their governments to carry out their business interests, such
as when Enron had managed to convince ex-president Menem to
< a national energy company for less than 25% of its market
value.

With President Bush rallying the Westinits Waron Terror, and
with his administration at the disposition of large U.S. corpora-
tions, we can expect to see little change in the IMF’s policies for
a good while.

Meanwhile, the people of Latin America will be ever more
justified not to welcome U.S. or IMF intervention in the future.
