Liz Schoening and Jane-Garnett Ishon battle the elements and a
Radford defender during Saturday’s rain soaked 1- 0 win.

Rain doesn’t slow field
hockey in win over Radford

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

“Heart and Hustle.”

Head field hockey coach Lisa Thompson
spoke these words of inspiration as the “Cats
took the field against the Radford Highland-
ers.

The two words summarized the underlying
reason for the ‘Cats’ win in their first game of
the season.

With 20:32 remaining in the first half, Jane
Garnet-Ishon scored her first collegiate goal
off an assist from Amanda Strickland.

It proved to be the only goal that
the ‘Cats needed to secure their first
NorPac conference win.

As both teams worked to move the ball up
their respective ends of the field, the pouring
rain added an additional challenge to maneu-
vering ability.

It did not, however, prevent the ‘Cats from

having beautiful midfield transition. Led by
midfielder Agnes Bateman and defender
Kathleen Fenn, the team made crisp passes to
one another to maintain possession.

While the entire team played at a consis-
tently high level, it would be impossible to go
without mentioning the stellar defensive unit
of Christina Auer, Jess Barton, Courtney
Hughes, Fenn.and goalie Sarah Nolan.

Nolan made 11 crucial saves to pick up the
shutout, and even managed to stop all fifteen
Radford corners.

The game remained a close battle up to the

- final whistle. With one second to go, the

Highlanders took a shot that skipped past
Nolan, but Hughes came to the rescue and
prevented the goal with a demolishing clear.

The Cats took four shots on cage, while the
Highlanders recorded 11. Radford goalie
Tina Caiazza made 2 saves in the losing
effort.

The Highlanders did not make it easy for
Davidson, but the heart and hustle of the ‘Cats
led them to victory.

The ‘Cats return to the field on Friday,
Sept. 6, at 7:30 p.m. in Boone, N.C., where
they will face Saint Francis.

Football readies for opener
against scholarship program

By Marr GaRFIELD
Managing Editor

The Davidson football team begins its quest
for a fifth straight winning season on Satur-
day against a VMI team that is 4-29 over the
past four years. i

But the Keydets own a 63-0 advantage in a
statistic that probably means alot more: schol-
arships.

The Wildcats compete on the Division I-
AAnon-scholarship level, meaning most play-
ers must pay the same tuition as other stu-
dents.

Nearly all the VMI players who see action
in Saturday’s game attend school for free, in
exchange for their services on the field.

That’s the challenge facing second-year
head coach Mike Toop and the Wildcats
entering their first game against a Southern
Conference school since 1989 (A 39-36 loss
to VMI).

““They’re bigger and their skill players are
probably a little quicker,” said Toop. “And
they’re playing a tougher schedule. It’ ll defi-
nitely be a huge challenge for us.”

Davidson has no scholarship players, but
the team does return 18 starters off a team that
finished 5-4 a year ago.

Just as important, the coaching staff re-
turns intact for the first time in four seasons.

“This will be the first year for any of these
kids to have the same head coach and coach-
ing staff return,” said Toop. “Not having.to

learn a new system for the first time since: .

they’ve been here will put us much farther
ahead of the game than in the past.

Senior co-captain Paul Nichols opens his
third year at quarterback after missing the

final two games of last season with a torn
ACL. He finished with more than 1,100 yards
and a 54.0 completion percentage, placing
him fifth in Davidson all-time passing yard-.
age.

Nichols hasn’t shown any signs of the
injury since practice began in the spring.

“He’s been sharp,” said Toop. “He’s doing
more of the little things, looking off receiv-
ers, getting rid of the ball sooner. Those are
the things that hurt him last year. He’s got a
very good feel for the offense at this point.”

Sophomore John Leverett, who moves into
a starting role at tailback to replace the gradu-
ated Ward Gibson, is not expected to play on
Saturday because of a finger injury suffered
in practice.

He should return in time for the home
opener against Jacksonville on Sept. 14.

The Wildcats held an intra-squad scrim-
mage in the rain on Saturday at Richardson
Stadiuth:

Despite the muddy conditions, Toop said
he’s pleased with how it went.

Saturday’ s forecast for Lexington, Va., calls
for a mix of clouds and sun—and according
to Toop, the chance of a monumental upset.

“‘We’re not into moral victories,” he said.
“We’re not going up there to play the best we
can. Our program has evolved to the point
where we’re going out to win. That’s basi-
cally the only goal.”

Photo by Willis Glasgow

Senior Paul Nichols will open his third season at quarterback on
Saturday when the Wildcats travel to VMI.

Nick Hansell 704

Major: Puysics Hometown: CoLumsia, SC

Hansell had two goals and an
assist from the striker position
to lead the soccer team to the |
Army/adidas tournament title.

Friday:

Volleyball vs. Coastal Carolina
Field Hockey at Saint Francis

7 p.m.
7:30 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Cross Country at Covered Bridge Open

Football at VMI
Men’s Soccer at North Carolina
Women’s Soccer vs. Citadel

Volleyball vs. Southeastern La.,North Carolina A&T

Saturday

1 p.m.
7 p.m.
4 p.m.
12:30 p.m.

Sunday:

Field Hockey vs. American at Winston-Salem, N.C.

1 p.m.

Monday
Golf at Mid-Pines Intercollegiate, Pinehurst, N.C.

Women’s Soccer at Wake Forest
Volleyball vs. Furman

Tuesday:

8 p.m.
7 p.m.
