By Mary Kat Wuite
Guest Contributor

Students who attended the health advisors’
program, “Discourse on Intercourse” last Monday night, agreed
that gender relations and sexuality issues on Davidson’s
campus are suffering. No matter what angle students chose
to see the issues—Patterson Court supporter, Independent,

feminist or scholar—each acknowledged that problems exist

and need to be addressed.

Together the group tried to discern the reasons behind this
ever present issue, and, not surprisingly, most pointed a finger
at Patterson Court. All agreed that unspoken social expecta-
tions exist among Court-goers: part of attending a Court party
means that you understand that your sex appeal rates much
higher than your conversational skills. For instance, Kappa
Sigma’s annual “Ladies and Their Gentlemen” party.

Formerly known as, “Pimps and Hos,” this party encour-
ages the brothers to dress up as pimps and invite as many
women as they want who are willing to dressup like hos.

Despite the new name, the change hasn’t changed: much
about the party: “everyone still dresses the same and the same
people show up,” says senior brother Evan McCormick.
Given a chance to “feel sexy for a night,” McCormick
explains, many students take it and appreciate the opportunity
to “strut their stuff.”

Unfortunately, for the advantage of feeling sexy, many
women and men must put their: standards on hold while they
are at the party. The theme of “Ladies and Their Gentlemen”

constricts a student’s individual perception of sexuality and .

replaces it with a one-sided formula for sexiness: dress like a
pimp if you’ re a man, and dress like a “ho” if you’re a woman.
Despite the Monday night group’s prejudices, gender and
sexuality questions do appear outside Patterson Court. In the
Dance Ensemble’ s concert, twenty-four women performed a
hip-hop dance to Britney Spears’ song, “I’m a Slave 4 U.”

The dance allowed the women to express female sexuality,
but for most, their performance did not reflect their individual
beliefs or convictions. Senior woman Sarah Jacob remarked,
“the fact that we chose to dance in the dance reflected in no
way our own views.”

Senior choreographer, Joy Gerdy agrees with Jacob. For
her, the piece was “never intended to make a statement.” In
regards to the troubling lyrics, (“J really wanna do what you
want me to; Baby, don’t you wanna, dance upon me / Leaving
behind my name, my age,”), Gerdy says her dancers “dis-
missed them as ridiculous.”

Like “Ladies and Their Gentlemen,” “Slave” did offer
students a much needed venue for sexual expression, but both

forms reinforce traditional gender stereotypes this campus

“should be moving away from. A woman who chooses to chin

as a “ho” or dance to a song that says, “I’m a Slave for you,”
is undermining significant advances feminists have made
toward gender equality. :

If we want to alleviate gender conflicts, we must avoid
thinking and enacting old patterns that limit and harm women
and men.

Patterson Court Council does not have, as of now, an
“official policy” to address gender conflicts and sexual ex-
pression. “Just like the administration,”
Hanks explains, “[PCC] hopes that better judgment and
common sense will prevail. We should set goals on more of
an individual level and then hope the awareness spreads.”
Ideally, this suggestion would satisfy the problem. It hasn’t
yet.
PCC does have the power to effect change. As the most
visible social body on campus, Patterson Court cari develop
more progressive means for sexual expression. A few years
ago, FLAG, the gay-straight alliance group, sponsored Fash-
ion Shows to encourage awareness, sensitivity, and respect
for all sexual orientations.

David Rushton, class of 2000, recalls hearing about some

“students who decided to participate in the show in 1998 by

painting their mostly naked bodies blue and performing a
dance. Twice before the Fashion Show, the students met to
talk over their personal conflicts and reservations regarding
their performance.

Their questions and discourse allowed each participant to
understand his or her role within the performance. Moreover,
to get used to exposing their bodies, the students practiced the
dance in dim light. As they became comfortable with dancing
in the nude and dancing with others, they turned the lights on
brighter.

The students’ mental and emotional consciousness pre-
pared them for the event and gave them a deeper appreciation
for their actions. Rushton remembers the performance as “by
far the most naked and by far the most tasteful.”

The FLAG Fashion Show has since been cancelled because
most of the performances lacked the depth and awareness of
the blue body dance. FLAG did not want the other sexually
demeaning performances to project an incorrect image about
the club. This seems to be the same problem Davidson is
struggling. with now.

More events like the blue body dance, those that express the
body’s beauty on multiple levels, will not only broaden our
definition of sexuality, but teach us to honor it more holisti-
cally and, from that perspective, allow us to move toward a
successful resolution for Davidson’s gender conflicts.

Will RLO continue to rely on stereotypes?

In response to “Lottery controversy brings RLO policies
into question” (News, April 10).

The controversy raised by the Residence Life Office’s
decision to place one group of students in a Martin Apartment
over another brings into question not only RLO policies, but
ethical issues as well.

The article, “Lottery controversy brings RLO policies into
question,” suggests that a solution to the concerns that arose
because of the decision can be resolved next year if RLO
publicizes their policies more and makes it clear lottery
numbers are only one of many factors
that determine room assignments.

I agree that making sure such infor-
mation is accessible and clear will
help the situation, but Idon’t think that
will addresses the crux of the problem.

nae Dean Marsicano is quoted in that
article to have suid, “RLO uses more than lottery numbers in
determining housing.”

Okay, that’s acceptable. Everyone agrees that individuals
with pressing needs—those with heart conditions, those who
need a smoke-free environment, or those who may need a
room with two windows (for whatever creative reasons one

‘might have)—should definitely not have their health compro-
mised in any way on the basis of a lottery number. Perhaps
we should add to that list of pressing needs students who
desire a “quiet atmosphere.” :

Then Dean Marsicano says, “We [RLO] try to avoid
problems upfront.... We think taking into account the good
of the community is very important.”

The statement sounds diplomatic, but did RLO really
consider the “good of the community” when a group of
individuals with a better combined lottery number was placed
in an apartment of their second or third choice so that the

“quiet atmosphere” of Flowe’s second floor could be main-

tained? I suggest that it isn’t.

In the context of the situation Dean Marsicano applies the
argument, I suggest it proves week and insufficient. Here’s
why... The group of students with a better lottery number
wasn’t given their first choice based on a stereotypical claim
that large numbers of Phi Delta Thetas create “very social
places.”

Now, are we sure that’s always the case? It amazes me that
this arguments enough to disregard the systematic process of
the lottery.

For years, people have formed similar stereotypes about
races of people, genders, and religious sects based on over-
simplified opinions, prejudiced attitudes, or uncritical judg-
ments.

It’s saddening that such practices are present outside our
community, but it’s depressing to know that “nothing out of
the ordinary or ‘illegal’” occurred when decisions based on
stereotypical claims emerged within our own sacred commu-
nity.

I am eager to know if the individual backgrounds of either
group’s students were considered. Is it not possible to have
Phi Delts that don’t fit the stereotypical mold?

Is it not also possible that the group allowed to move into
Flowe 302 might have a more tainted residential background
here at Davidson than the other group?

I know our RLO staff remains busy at this time of year with
the lottery, but I wonder if any of these questions were asked.

I wonder if anyone contacted the guys’ past hall counselors,
resident advisors, or other peers for character references. It
seems to me that if such measures had been taken, justifica-
tion of RLO’ s decision would not seem quite so questionable.

As such information was not obtained, I wonder if such
references (in similar situations) will be requested in the
future. Or; will RLO continue to rely on hardly substantiated
stereotypical claims?

Marc Vinson ‘05

President Daniel -

In loyal accordance to what has sadly defined “Nota Bene”
hitherto, Zach Williams’ article, “In and out of Caracas,” is
characterized by complete naiveté in regard to the true inten-
tions of global leaders — particularly the intentions of those
leaders who constitute their own government.

To the Nota Bene eye it would seem that the Bush Admin-
istration took no active role in the ouster-of Venezuelan
President Hugo Chavez, while the circumstances more than
obviously indicate otherwise. First of all, little before the
coup, nes state-run Venezuelan oil company, the fourth larg-
est exporter of oil to the United States,
had announced cuts in production as
had been accorded by all of the mem-
bers of OPEC. Also, the United States
is about to suffer from higher infla-
tionary levels due to the rising oil

_— prices, which are mainly caused by
these cuts in production. Such inflationary levels would
harmfully deteriorate Bush’s popularity since he has been
especially criticized for the economic consequences that his
policies bring to the United States. As if this were not ,
evidence enough, the Chavez opposition met with White
house officials a few days before the overthrow. Finally, the
international attention is focused on the Middle East, so what
better time than now to back a very favorable revolution in
Latin America?

But Chavez is not dumb by any means, as he foresaw a
revolution coming against him. That explains why he yielded
so easily, as he had everything arranged to return to power
from prison, incarcerate all of those who took part in the
revolution, so that he could rule the country freely with no
opposition to worry about for the remainder of his term.

Hugo Chavez is clearly not favorable to Venezuela, Latin
America, or the United States. However, he was a democrati-
cally elected leader. The United States, or any country,
should always defend democracy and not only when it is
convenient for them. Also, suggesting that the United States
was justified by not defending democracy in Venezuela
because it “just wouldn’t be right” to share the same position
as Cuba or Iraq is plain garbage: is United States foreign
policy defined as everything that is against Cuban and Iraqi
Policy or is it something else?

As we have all witnessed, the members of the Nota Bene’s
staff have consecrated themselves as the campus buffoons.
What was once excitement about political controversy being
part of the Davidson academic atmosphere has become com-
plete disappointment, as the journal has failed to be at the
same level of the more liberal publications on campus.
Hopefully, this will change and the staff will take a more
serious attitude in addressing political issues and properly
justifying its views since, thus far, it has presented us with
nothing more than the arrangement of nonsense into para-
graphs done over lunch.

