DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Ludacris to play Belk Arena
in Union’s spring concert

Popular artist will play
college's first ever hip-hop
concert on May I~

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor -

One of the hottest acts in hip-hop will roll
out to Davidson on May 1 for the first rap
concert ever at the College.

Atlanta-based rapper Ludacris will per-
form a 75-minute show three weeks from
today on Wednesday, May | at 7:30 p.m. in
the Union Board’s big-ticket spring concert.

Sophomore Mbye Nijie, social chair of the
Union Board, said board members and ad-
ministrators booked Ludacris for $40,000
after students responded favorably to Njie’s
campus-wide e-mail survey.

Of the 770 students who responded to the
e-mail, he said 530 supported the idea, 130
opposed it and 110 were not sure.

Njie said about 20 students were waiting in
line when tickets went on sale Monday morn-
ing at the Union ticket office. For traffic and
crowd management reasons, the school will
offer 4,000 general admission tickets, roughly
1,600 less than the arena’s capacity.

“Personally, I think it will sell out,” he said.
“We’re planning to advertise in Charlotte,
Greensboro and Winston-Salem, and Ludacris
hasn’t performed [in the area] in a long time,
if ever.”

Many students who opposed the concert
responded that Ludacris’s songs contain of-
fensive, profanity-laced lyrics that are inap-

Ludacris-Online.com
Ludacris is scheduled for May 1.
propriate on a college campus.

Njie said he didn’ trespond directly to those
students, but advises them.to skip the show.

“We are in college, and we are adults. If
you don’t want to listen to him, you don’t
have tocome. It’s everyone’s personal choice.
If you disagree with anything we’re doing,
we want you to join the Concert Committee,”
said Njie, adding that Ludacris will be asked
not to play his more profane songs.

“We do have to have some kind of standard
of decency,” he said. “Every college [he
plays] is going to have some standards.”

Union Director William Brown said he

see Ludacris, page 6

Senior awarded prestigious
Mellon Ph.D. fellowship |

Jeremy Campbell ‘02
hopes to teach, work on
international issues

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

Davidson senior Jeremy M. Campbell ’02
was recently awarded one of the prestigious
Andrew W. Mellon Fellowships in Humanis-
tic Studies, which will fully pay for his first
year of doctoral study at the University of
California at Santa Cruz.

Campbell is an anthropology major with a
concentration in ethnic studies, and is inter-
ested in combining a Ph.D. with a Master’ s of
Fine Arts degree in creative writing and a
degree in international law. This 12-year plan
of study will allow him to customize a career
of teaching anthropology at the collegiate
level and working with government agencies
and international organizations.

- Campbell mentions the World Bank and
the World Trade Organization as agencies
that he might aim to work with.

He explains that these groups, which seek
to give aid to needy and disenfranchised

people around the world, often “take a lot of
flak, and deserve.a lot of flak, for efforts that
are often misguided. But just criticizing them
and not helping hem do better is missing the
point. If you’re just spinning theoretical
wheels and not thinking of how your work in
the academy can be applied to the outside
world, you’re not doing the best you can.”

The Mellon Fellowships in the Humani-
ties, given to 85 students this year, are de-
signed to help “exceptionally promising stu-
dents prepare for careers of teaching and
scholarship in humanistic disciplines.”

The award consists of the full graduate
tuition and required fees for the first year of
graduate study, as well as a $17,500 stipend.

The money can be applied to any graduate
_program that the recipient is accepted into. _

Campbell chose to attend the University of
California at Santa Cruz because he will be
able. to work as a graduate assistant in the
classroom throughout his Ph.D. program. He
also received a Chancellor’s Fellowship from
UC Santa Cruz that will cover future years of
his graduate study expenses.

Campbell has been active in various lead-
ership roles during his years at Davidson. He

see Mellon, page 4

Up to Bat For Housina: Jake Harrington ’03 of Kappa Sigma at the
plate against the Homeruns for Habitat faculty team. College
President Bobby Vagt plays catcher. See story page four.

Reunion Weekend honors
World War II survivors

Events aim to celebrate
veterans, educate alums
and students about war

By Co.in EAGAN
News Editor

It’s the story of a marine in Iwo Jima, a
bomber pilot in Japan anda soldier in Europe.
The story of alumnus Benjamin Nash, the
submarine commander killed in October,
1943, just three months before his daughter
was born. And the story of Zev Kedem, a
prisoner at Auschwitz at the age of eight,
survivor of six concentration camps, and one
of 1,100 souls saved by Schindler’s List.

These tales and others shall be relived this
upcoming Reunion Weekend, when Davidson
College will look back on World War II,
honoring its own “Greatest Generation.” A
series of events will take place this Friday and
Saturday.

The product of over a year in planning,
Reunion Weekend 2002 aims not only to
celebrate, buteducate. As Director of Alumni
Relations Matthew Merrell ‘84 explained,
events have been planned to appeal not only
to alumni, but students, faculty and commu-

nity members. Positive response toa keynote
address by former Secretary of Defense Wil-
liam Cohen at last year’s Reunion proved the
success of such educational reunion activi-
ties.

The college will be welcoming back the
“war years” classes of 1944-47, which in-
cludes many men who fought the war. Events
will begin on Friday at 2 p.m. in the C. Shaw
Smith 900 Room of the Alvarez College
Union with a panel discussion by five alumni
who saw combat.

Conrad C. Crane will follow at 3:15 p.m.
with a lecture on “Strategic Bombing and the
Ethics of War.” Crane is a professor of mili-
tary strategy at the Strategic Studies-Institute
of the U.S. Army War College. An expert on
military theory and doctrine, ethics and war-
fare, Crane has written and edited books on
the Civil War, World War I, World War II,
and Korea, and contributed to The Journal of
Strategic Studies, The Journal of Military
History, The Historian, and Aerospace His-
torian.

Alumni Association Distinguished Lec-
turer Scott Denham will speak about the
popularization and mythologization of the

see Reunion, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

[oS SA eae }
News Pages 1-4
Housing controversy continues RLO

swaps two groups of students. Page 3.

Arts and Living Pages 5-6
A full preview of the Shakespeare pro-
duction of Love’s Labour’s Lost. Page 6.

Perspectives Pages 7-8
Former Vice President Al Gore re-
turns to the spotlight in Florida. Page 8.

Sports Pages 9-12
Baseball vies for-the final spot in the
SoCon tournament. Page 9.

