By Tep EMERSON
Staff Writer.

Lead singer and creator of the band Filter,
Rich Patrick, explained that “We don’t take
vacations. You start unwinding, you lose your
edge”. Despite the nose to the grindstone ap-
proach, Filter has lost the edge they once pos-
sessed, but not in the sense that they have failed
as musicians. In fact, it was that very edge that
has kept Filter from becoming one of the pre-
mier acts in rock today.

Patrick’s musical career began in 1989 when
he and Trent Reznor formed the ‘illustrious
industrial band Nine Inch Nails. After a year on
the road with the band, Patrick left due to
musical differences. It wasn’t until 1994, when
a mutual friend introduced Patrick to Brian
Liesegang, that Patrick began writing music
again.

Patrick with his electronic background and
Liesegang with his array of musical talent pro-
duced an album’s worth of material in several
months. The album, entitled Short Bus, was
produced on a small budget but shocked the
music industry with its rawness and fervor.
Patrick explained that the album was a celebra-
tion of those who are special and different.

Much like the brand of music that he helped
to create with Reznor, Patrick’s artistic talents
were a celebration of a unique and provocative
new genre. The Chemical Brothers collabo-
rated on the song “Can’t You Trip Like I Do”,
which was an instant hit. Overall the album was
dark, highly electronic, and heralded as the new
musical voice of the generation.

After a disappointing display in their second
album Title of Record, Filter settled into the
dust of the post-grunge arena. The transition
began with the loss of Liesegang after the Short
Bus tour. Patrick was now living in the shadow
of Reznor and new industrial acts were popping
up everywhere. Time to go back to the basics.

Fast forward to today. The Almagamut, in-
fluenced by the diversity and freedom that

11:00 am — 1:00 pm
_ Information Table

Filter’s new album eclectic

Argentina, Australia, Chile,
Costa Rica, Cuba, England,
treland, New Zealand, Northern
ireland, and Scotland

Learn about our outstanding student
services and programs

Patrick: saw while touring across America,

marks Filter’s third album and an attempt to
resurrect their image amongst the talking heads
of the music world. As it turns out, the album is
itself a celebration of diverse song writing.
Taking influences from past albums and artists
and mixing them with his own originality, Rich
Patrick creates a tightly knit, compelling record.

The first single, “Where Do We Go From
Here” represents the typical Filter single, poppy
and completely different from the rest of the
album. But that is exactly the point. All 12 of the
tracks on “The Almagamut” are separate enti-
ties of each other, yet collectivity come together
once one hears the album in entirety.

The opening track “You Walk Away” is full
of adrenaline and mirrors something off Short
Bus. The song that will most definitely reach the
airwaves sometime this fall will .be “The Only
Way (Is The Wrong Way)”, the popiest song
Filter has ever written. “Never Be The Same”
has a hopelessness to it that sounds like it could
have been taken from Alice in Chain’s album
Dirt. The simple lyrics and rhythm of “God
Damn Me” create a profoundness that requires
several consecutive listenings, much like “Take
A Picture” off Title of Record.

The most sullen, and therefore the best track
on the album, would have to be “The Missing”.
Written on Sept. 11, “The Missing” is more of
a question than a song. The confusion and
placidity of the melody is complemented by the
slurred vocals that Patrick so cleverly carves in
to your mind. Rich Patrick writes his best music
when he has a deep emotional attachment to the
song and “The Missing” represents the cunning
of a veteran songwriter.

The end result: a change in identity. No~

longer will Filter be labeled an industrial band.
Rather, Filter will be known as a band that can
cross genre lines and excel no matter what style
they play. Much has changed in the 4 years
since Title of Record was released. Reznor has
disappeared from the music scene, rock is re-
born, and Filter is leading the charge.

Thursday, September 26

Outside Ghembers Hall — Belk Dorm End

The Simpsons: ?

By Linpy BALpwin

Arts & Living Editor

The Times of London remarked this sum-
mer that, should all of civilization be de-
stroyed, modern American society could be
reconstructed solely from episodes of The
Simpsons. 1 don’t know if I’d go that far, but
I have to admit that few things make me
laugh harder. If my younger brother and I
hadn’t bonded by trading Homerisms, we
probably would have spoken alotless during
our young lives.

Since we know you’ re just reading the paper
for a half:-hour’s worth of quality procrastina-
tion, here is a quiz that will test your knowledge
of this pop culture phenomenon while helping
you avoid anything that might resemble pro-
ductivity. Level 1 is for novices; if you can get
Level 3, you’re a true fan. If you know the
answers to Level 4, you probably need ahobby.
And no, there is no partial credit.

Level 1 — 1 point each
a. What is Marge’s maiden name?
b. Where does Homer work?
c. What is the name of Bart and Lisa’s
favorite cartoon show?
d. Who is the principal of Springfield
Elementary?

Level 2 — 2 points each
a. What is Patty and Selma’s favorite TV
show?
b. Name Lisa’s favorite doll.
c. Who is Bart’s teacher?
d. Name Springfield’s rival town.

Level 3 — 3 points each

a.What is the name of Springfield’s only bur-
lesque house?
b. What did evil employer Hank Scorpio
give to Homer as a reward for his hard work ?
c. What is the name of Flanders’ store?
d. Whatis the name of Springfield’ s minor
league baseball team?

Level 4 — 4 points each

a. In the opening sequence, which charac-
ter is walking a dog?

b. What is the real name of the mental
patient who thinks he’s Michael Jackson?

c. Name the cult that Homer forces the
family to join in “The Joy of Sect.”

d. What is Bart’s blood type?

Now, if you’re really bored, check the an-
swers below and add up your score. The maxi-
mum is 40 points. If you got a perfect score,
congratulations! You’ve won a free copy of
next week’s Davidsonian., Be sure to pick it up
on the newspaper rack near the Union desk.

ANSWERS

la. Bouvier. b. Springfield Nuclear Power
Plant. ¢. “The Itchy and Scratchy Show.” d.
Seymour Skinner.

2a. “MacGyver.” b. Malibu Stacey. c. Mrs.
Krabappel. d. Shelbyville.

3a. “La Maison Derriere.” b. The Denver

Broncos. c. The Leftorium. d. The Isotopes.
4a. Apu. b. Leon Kompowksi. c.
Movementarians. d. Double O negative.

The

