A Play
on Words

One of Shakespeare's

earliest works is also one
of his wittiest —and per-
haps one closest to home

By CoLin EAGAN
News Editor

Convinced “love is the devil”?
Finding “there is no evil angel but
love”? Just kinda been noticing that ;
“young blood doth not obey an old |
decree”? Fear not—in Shakespeare’s i
Love’s Labour’s Lost you're in good |
company. Portraying a world of §
“heavenly love” were “Jack hath not [|
Jill,” Love’s Labour’s is romance |
turned satire. The play comprises |

other students, and Clinton Rickards ’04 is

ever hope to meet, and likewise some of the
most self-estranged; armed with book-smarts,
they attempt to conquer love, only to realize
the dangers of conflating Knowledge and
Wisdom. What is the end of study? Can one
study tolove? Whatis love? Love’s Labour’s
not only entertains, but raises more than one
question appropriate to the college audience.

Consider the story. Four over-achieving,
college-aged guys—the King of Navarre and
his three lords—swear an oath to observe a
“three year’s fast” from women in favor of a
strict diet of academics. No sooner have they
done this than four college-aged gals—the
Princess of France and her three ladies—
arrive on the scene to conduct a business deal.
The ladies are, of course, incredibly hot (be-
ing French) and then men incredibly horny
(being men), and thus the plot is set. What
follows isa hilarious chain reaction of masked
loves, callow crushes, bad pick-up lines,

"Navarre hath made a vow,

"Till painful study shall outwear three years,
No woman may ;

‘eynam Seman nip Crone eis
Duke Performance Hall
April 19 022, 7:30 ; April 23, (Shakespeare's Birthday) 10:00

cabulary and wit. Characters get socaught up

in how they say things they often forget what :

it is they are saying.

. While the young lovers battle’ back and
forth with witty repartee, other characters
mock the very artifice of language through
their excessively lofty discourse. Take the
scholar Holofernes, for example, the goldmine
of conspicuous erudition to whose enormous
vocabulary yours will never compare (think...
Davidson professor?), or Don Adriano de
Armado, the pompous Spaniard and self-
styled highbrow who refers to the afternoon
as the “posteriors of this day”
(think...Davidson professor? Kidding.)
These characters epitomize the very folly of
knowledge for knowledge’s sake; their self-
image soars due to their perceived mastery of
language when in fact we see they amount to
little more than the air they so garrulously
spew.

roach his silent court."

~ tii.22°24

Where the city of temperance is not ahain ‘d and brevity is the soul of Resta

By Emi_y Drew
Senior Staff Writer

I’m standing on a makeshift stage in
Chambers gallery in a circle with 16

teaching us the flamenco. We’ re twisting our
wrists and stamping our feet, and then it’s
time for voice warm-up. Chas Willimon ’02
leads the group now. He makes ones of those
noises that Aaron Hauser makes in the Gen-
erals’ concerts, and we all try to mimick him.
We go around the circle, each person leading
the rest of the class in a hum, moan, grunt,
sigh, or whistle.

I’m joining the Performing Shakespeare
class in their acting warm-up, a five-minute
take from their daily, three-hour class.

Yes, I said daily, three-hour class. And
that’s not counting the extra hours put into set
design, costuming, advertisement, and line
memorization. There’s also the imperative
text analysis, mandatory critical study as-
signments, a daily journal, and a fifteen-page
term paper.

Every class member plays a part in this

It’s a daily drama in English 452—and appro-
priately so. The English seminar, offered every third
year by Dr. Cynthia Lewis, is composed of sixteen students
who model an Elizabeth acting ensemble, mounting a full-
scale production of a Shakespearean play from the ground up.
| This year’s project: Love’s Labour's Lost. Now don’t be fooled,

| its not all mead and revels; English 452 meets three hours a

) day, Monday through Thursday. And acting is just the begin-

| ning—other production responsibilities must be attended to,

| from set construction to publicity to costumes. Join the cast

| April 19 through 23 as they transform Duke Performance Hall
' into the biggest Shakespeare bash on campus since the RSC.

duction choice seems especially appropriate.
The plot centers on men who give up wine,
women, and song for the sake of learning.
Soon, though, some witty women prove even
more glorious by tempting the men out of
their academic celibacy.

English professor Cynthia Lewis usually
offers Performing Shakespeare every three
years. Even though the seminar was offered
only two years ago, the English department
decided to offer the course this year in con-
junction with the RSC’s residency. RSC
members workshopped with Lewis’s class
during their stay, and students had an unprec-
edented opportunity to question and explore
the complex process of stage production.

Hilary Dack ’02 said, “Working with the
Royal Shakespeare Company was an
opportunity that my classmates and I -recog-
nized as invaluable. The skills we
developed studying voice, movement, and
comedy with company members...both in-

formed and inspired us for our production of
Love’s Labour’s.”

The class has been combing lessons from
the RSC with the precise and thorough in-

battle-of-the-sexes-esque bravado, and just
the general outpouring of altogether too much
built-up sexual tension.

Ah hah, you say, so it was this play that the
founders of Davidson College had in mind
when they devised their vision of our school
social life. Well, no, hopefully, as back then
it was only boys and farm animals. But
you’ re right—there is an uncanny similarity
in subject matter. Indeed, Shakespeare un-
derstood the dangers of all work and no play.
There are certain things that academics can-
not teach you, and, as it turns out, these things
just might prove to be some of the most
important.

Much of the play itself mocks the notion of

book-smarts as overarching focus—a com-.

mentary many of us at Small, Highly Com-
petitive Liberal Arts College might do well to
consider. Love’s Labour’s is itself a labor to
read, a true linguistic roller coaster which pits
_ character against character in battles of vo-

Small wonder, then, that this play contains
the longest word to be found in all of
Shakespeare (and, many would argue, the
longest word period), “Honorificabili-
tudinitatibus” (yeah, you guessed it, Latin).
But who ever said loquaciousness was prac-
tical.

Now wittiness means puns and any good
pun is a sex pun—and especially so when

see Wit, page 6

year’s production, Love’s Labours Lost, a
five-act comedy. In addition, every person in
the seminar contributes to other necessities
involved in the production by forming com-
mittees to divide the work.

Melanie Wadkins ’02 said of the experi-
ence so far, “It’s such a worthwhile produc-
tion because we really started from the bare
minimum and we built it up ourselves—set,
costumes, design—everything.”

With so many extra hours, this year’s pro-

MLI6S the RSC? So do we.

ce lhoct :

it the Duke Perform

ince Hall

~~ Rit 19 10 22, 7:60

APRIL 23, (SHAKESPEARE’S BIRTHDAY)

fa
rh

10:00

LOO}

struction of Professor Lewis. “She knows
this play back to front. Actually, she knows
Shakespeare back to front,” said one class
member. “If you have any question about the
play or other works, she’ll answer it. Most
importantly, she has a lot of patience.”

With only a few more days until opening
night, the cast has moved to Duke Family
Performance Hall for their rehearsals. Anna
Jensen “02 confidently circles the stage in her
white gloves, gold purse, and high heels.
She, as the Princess of France, exchanges
flirtatious dialogue with Aaron Lohmeyer
*02, the studious King of Navarre. Off to the
side, Colin Eagan ’02 is thrusting an arrow up
between his legs, perfecting the bawdy ac-
tions of Act IV, Scene II.

“It’s been an amazing, well-rounded expe-
rience,” said Rickards. “I have a new found

_ respect for people who do this for a living.”
