__WEDNEsDAY, FEBRUARY 3: 2002

Dorm Review: Housing options for Lottery Night

cluster for the pod singles.

The senior apartments require a separate
application process. For more information on
all of the dorms, visit RLO’s webpage at
http://www. davidson.edu/administrative/
residencelife/facilities.html.

AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

Two major changes will be taking place

for upperclassman residence halls next year.

_ Watts will be changed to a co-ed, freshman,

sub-free dorm, and Little will be completely

refurbished over the summer to become an

upper-class, co-ed dorm. Although other

halls will not be redone, many students are

currently weighing the pros and cons of each
dorm in anticipation of lottery night.

3™ and 4" Belk According to Annette
Welty 04, the rooms are cozy and the halls
are fairly quiet, but there’s not a “whole lot of
community” because the floors consist of
sophomores, juniors, and seniors. There are
lounges on each floor, but there are no laun-
dry machines or kitchens in the building.

Sentelle & Cannon Every floor of Sentelle
is an upperclassman hall, while Cannon does
have freshman halls. The dorms are close to
the Union, Chambers, and the library, but are
further from the eating houses and sopho-
more apartments. Amanda Andrews ’04 of 1“
Cannon claimed that there are “no setbacks”
to living in Cannon since it was redone this
past summer. Cannon has a kitchen, and
Sentelle is equipped with laundry machines.

Little Little will be a co-ed, upperclass-

’man dorm next year. The bathrooms will be

renovated, which will likely be a bonus for
future residents.

“Down the Hill’ — Akers, Knox, & Irwin
Often called the sophomore apartments, these
buildings have “tiny rooms” and “no sinks”
according to Sarah Baxley ’04. There is only
one washing machine for the three buildings
and the relatively long walk up the hill spurs
complaint. However, tesidents enjoy prox-
imity to parking and Patterson Court, and
although these dorms are close to weekend
parties the dorms are “‘actually not that loud,”
according to Baxley.

Duke Located next to the Union, Duke is
prime realty for weekday life. The rooms are
relatively spacious, and some consist of two
connected rooms. Sarah Hatfield ’03 admit-
ted that her hall’s bathroom situation was
“not great” since thirteen girls shared only
one shower on their co-ed hall. Hatfield was
unsure whether this problem would remain
next year.

West West is the newest dorm on cam-
pus, and is comprised of mostly juniors. “It’s
fun having lots of friends in one place,” said
Jessica Mering ’03. “It’s clean and nothing’s

WALT, from page 1

tions of censoring any material.

“You will not find a single member of the
Media Board who wants to reign in student
creativity or freedom of expression unless
they cross the line and violate community
standards of decency,” she said. “Everyone
on the Board is very sensitive to censorship.
The respect for the need for freedom of ex-
pression is very healthy.”

Njie and Carvalho will be allowed to attend
the next meeting to discuss the new rules.

The handful of students who spoke up at

CE

Hours
7: 30- 5:30 M-F

CORNELIUS, NC

PHONE - (704) 892-6590
FAX - (704) 892-6596

8:00-12:00 Sat.

Let’s Go ’Cats!
duspoes rae Firestone DAYTON

the campus-wide WALT forum on Feb. 20
supported “The Black Man and the Mexican”
and said that people need to loosen up and
take the show for what it is: a joke. Some
accused the Media Board of unfairly censor-
ing the show.

Halpin said the station plans to advertise a
master schedule of shows in an upcoming
issue of The Davidsonian, and may distribute
flyers in student dorms.

“We got some suggestions for how to im-
prove our programs and music,” she said.
“Even the negative [comments] put us on the
right track.”

LAKE NORMAN

\

18705 STATESVILLE RD.

broken or yucky.” ’ Mering also explained that
the rooms are relatively spacious, and that
even the suites have single rooms. Sharing a
bathroom with only three other people is
another plus . Other West perks include the
elevator, the laundry room, and the kitchen.
Students opting for West, however, cannot

RLO Lottery Timeline

February 18

Hamm at dohamm.

February 18

February 28

March 13 7:00 pm - 900 Room

March 19
Off-campus permission applications
March 20 Phase | results posted

March 26

Phase Il applications due at Noon

tions

March 27 Phase II results posted

Lottery numbers available on line at: http:/;www.davidson.edu/administrative/
residencelife/lottery/index.html (Refer to Lottery Handbook at this website for details
about the process.) If Lottery number shows “##H#” instead ‘of a number, email Donna

Patterson Court Apartment applications distributed to presidents at PCC Meeting

Deadline for: Special Housing Applications for medical/physical limitations Applications
for one-year International Student Hosts. Students will hear results by March 15th
NOTE: Prior to March 19th the following assignments will be made:
Student Staff (Resident Advisors and Hall Counselors)
Special Housing for medical/physical limitations
Hosts for one-year International students

Mandatory Meeting for all Students applying for Off-Campus Permission

Phase | applications due at Noon: Seniors only 5-person apartments applications

4-person apartments (Senior groups processed first);
Remaining 4-person & 5-person apartments assigned to “mixed groups” of juniors and
seniors; Patterson Court apartment applications; Off campus applica-

April 3 Phase Ill — Single Room Lottery Night (location: West Hall Conference Room)

April 9 Phase IV - Lottery Night (location: West Hall Conference Room)

Receive A 5%

Discount With A

I-77

Exit 30
Davidson

Baker
Sports
Complex

NC 115

®
Cornelius | « 5 9
oO
* Sac

7)

/Exit 28

© DUNLOP

Valid Davidson

College ID
Offer applies to

faculty, staff and

students!

FULL LINE OF
GENERAL REPAIR
WORK
ON FOREIGN &
AMERICAN.

~ AUTOS

Quality Repair
By People
Who Care!!!

Lercnenin |

