; re best years of our lives, and how we spend them

By KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Where does all of my time go? Every day
begins and ends the same way—I wake up tothe
progressively harsher squawks of my alarm
clock, swearing that I will do my work early and
get some more sleep tonight. Then, at 11 p.m.,
I inevitably find myself sitting on my bed in a
panic, suddenly confronted by the realization
that I am about to face yet another night working
in the lounge to the backdrop of the Home
Shopping Network’s early morning program-
ming. But enough commentary. In the spirit of
good old-fashioned investigative journalism,
the Davidsonian asks, ‘‘where does your time
go?” For, apparently, my theory of Phantom
Tollbooth-type characters surreptitiously steal-
ing hours of my life didn’t go over well with the
editors.

Many of you (801, to be precise) recently

received a survey asking you estimate weekly
hours spent on various pursuits: studying, class
time, varsity sports, recreational/ intramural
sports, service, “other extracurricular” activi-
ties, watching television, working at'an on-
campus job, working at an off-campus job, and
socializing.

Of those invited to take the survey, 443
students responded to the time-devotion ques-
tion. Davidson students, as you may have
guessed, spend vastly variable amounts of time
studying. The average student dedicates ap-
proximately 21.5 hours per week to some kind
of extra-classroom academic activity. That
works out (for you non-math majors out there)
to about 3 hours per day or, if you discount the
weekends, about 4 hours per day. With 2.5
hours of class per weekday, we devote 6.5 hours
per weekday to schoolwork. I spent that much
time in class in high school! So much for our
reputation as a hard-core study school.

Teams to compete in College Bowl

Students organizing to revive College’s winning ways

By Ma.t.tory MacDonaLpD
Staff Writer

The College Bowl, a Jeopardy-like trivia
game that tests knowledge on a wide range of
topics as well as quick recall ability, is coming
back to Davidson after a ten-year hiatus.
Davidson students are eager to re-gain their

status as top competitors among other leading,

institutions.

The College Bowl originally aired in the
1950s as a weekly TV show designed to portray
top college scholars at work competing for a
six-episode winning streak. In 1969, David-
son’s current president participated on the team
that successfully went undefeated for six
straight rounds.

In, in 1979 the College Bowl expanded its
realm and created a National Championship,
which the Davidson team brought home.
Davidson beat prestigious schools such as

‘(ADO

Allard (R*) 52%
Strickland(D) 44%
47% of precincts reportir

77% Bef ee Wy uli

Harvard by a whopping 405 to 110.

In the early 1990s, enthusiasm died, and
Davidson withdrew from the College Bowl
association. Now, student interest, sparked by
David Crane ’06, has proposed a revival of the
College Bowl--and students are eager to partici-
pate. William Brown, Director of the Union
Board said, “The Union and RLO are willing to
support interested students and, we are pleased
that students have expressed such interest.”
With the joint support of the Union Board and
RLO, Davidson is currently sponsoring 23
teams set to kick off the games Thursday, Nov.
7. Each team is comprised:of four people with
an optional fifth alternative.

After a two-week, on-campus competition,
up to six people will be selected to join
Davidson’s Varsity Team. The varsity squad
will compete in the Regional Tournament in
February against schools from around the
United States.

Taylor (R)

B of precincts reporting

3 1% of precincts reporting

MONTANA

ecincts reporting

Time studying and time socializing have
similar (enormous) standard deviations, 10.2
and 11.1, respectively. This means that on a
graph of the data, the bell curve extends the
value of the standard deviation on either side of
the average. Or in layman’s terms, a significant
number of students are studying 31 hours per
week and an equally significant number are
studying a mere 1 1 hours per week. However, to
that person who claims to study 60 hours a
week, I suggest that you try to wean yourself off
the coffee products and look outside the study
carrel.

Varsity sports, judging from the data, only
take up 3.7 hours per week—but these numbers
are probably deceiving. All of the athletes I
know spend significantly more time training for
their respective sports. This discrepancy can
probably be explained in light of the fact that
varsity sports are an all-or-nothing commit-
ment. Intramural sports are slightly more uni-
versal, and thus the standard deviation is.a
relatively small 3.8 to varsity sports’ 7.6. Stu-
dent reported an average of 3 hours per week
spent participating in intramural sports.

Service-related activities received a respect-

able 2 hours per week, though that number
begins to look less reputable juxtaposed to the
4.7 hours allocated for “other extracurricular
activities” and the whopping 14.5 hours allotted
to social pursuits. And 14.5 is only the average
for social pursuits.

It is a good thing that most Union and Court
activities are free, because Davidson students
only work 2.5 hours in on-campus jobs and a
mere 1 hour per week at off-campus jobs. At
seven dollars per hour minus taxes, that doesn’t
leave much money for those 14.5 social hours.

In my opinion, this survey left off some-very
important time-consumers. Had I taken this
survey, my data would not have come near to
adding up to 24 hours. Were I to guess, I would
say that sleeping, eating, emailing, instant-mes-
saging, and staring blankly into space devour
huge chunks of my day. Similarly, I would like
for the socializing category to be specific: per-
haps divided into school week/weekend or
Patterson Court/everywhere else.

To all of you who contributed to the survey,
thank you. To you (whomever you are) who
spends 80 hours per week socializing, I hope
your head feels better soon.

Studying

Class

Socializing
Extracurriculars
Varsity Sports
Intramural Sports
On Campus. Jobs
Sommunity Service

Off Campus Jobs

121.6

spend your day?

Data is based on responses of 437 Davidson students to a
survey conducted by Dr. Pat Sellers’ Public Opinion class.

Average Hours Per Week

10 15 20

45%
ecincts reporting

ets reporting

44%

30%

38% of precincts reporting

RHODE ISLAND
Tingle (R)

"15% Reed (D*),

_* denotes i

22%

44%
93% of precincts reporting

yp iets Teporting
WEST VIRGINIA
Wolfe (R) 37% ~

Rockefeller (D*) 637%
89% of Uae rep

