By JONATHAN Crooms
Staff Writer

After the first week of the spring season, a
young but talented Davidson College men’s
tennis team posted a 2-1 record. On Thursday,
the Wildcats opened up their season with a 7-
0 loss to ACC opponent and 34th nationally
ranked University of North Carolina. A stron-
ger, more experienced Tar Heel team handed
the Wildcats their first loss, neatly capturing
the doubles point and easily winning all singles
matches in straight sets.

On Saturday, the Wildcats opened up their
home season with consecutive wins against
Charloge foes Belmont Abbey College and
Queens College. In early morning action, the
Wildcats defeated Belmont Abbey Crusaders
5-2. Strong volleys and solid returns allowed
the ’Cats to capture the doubles point, as all
three doubles teams easily won.

Sophomores Rob Haywood and Jonathan
Britt, freshman Donald Miles, and junior Geoff
Mullen each won their singles matches in
straight sets at the #3, 4, 5, and 6 singles
positions, while the only losses of the match
came at the racquets of ‘senior captains Chad
Winebarger and David Webb at #1 and #2
singles.

In afternoon action, the Wildcats dominated
Queens College with a 6-1 victory. Davidson
overpowered the Royals, once again capturing
the doubles point with strong volleying and
solidreturning. With exception to Winebarger’s
straight-set loss at #1 singles, the Wildcats
defeated their opponents quickly and easily.

Webb, Britt, and Mullen contributed wins at
the #2, #3, and # singles positions. Sopho-
more Bryan Stonestreet, who pulled out the
match-clinching win against Charleston in
2001, won at #5 singles. Freshman Russ Burns
eared his first collegiate victory with a deci-
sive win at the #6 singles position.

Men’s tennis set to serve up strong season

Although highly talented, youth and inexpe- -

rience characterize the 2002 Davidson men’s
tennis team. After graduating #1 doubles, #1,
#2, and #4 singles last season, head coach Jeff
Frank and assistant coach Scott Briggs will be
turning to seniorcaptains Winebarger and David
Webb for leadership. “They’re doing a good
job keeping the guys motivated,” commented
Coach Frank.

Both captains, who were major contributing
members to the team’s success last season, are
the only returning singles starters.

Winebarger, who posted impressive wins
against James Madison University and Liberty
University at #3 singles in 2001, will lead the
team at the #1 singles position. Webb, who
pulled out the match-clinching win against
Georgian Southern University at #5 singles last
season, will also be guiding the team at #2
singles.

Although the team is inexperienced, Coach
Frank is excited about the season, noting, “Our
strength this year is our depth.”

At the #3 and #4 singles positions, sopho-
mores Haywood and Britt will prove formi-
dable challenges for opponents. Although nei-
ther have much experience in the starting line-
up, both have explosive games that make them
contenders in any match. At the #5 and #6
singles positions, freshman Miles and junior
Mullen will give the Wildcats the needed depth
to make Davidson a solid opponent in the
Southern Conference.

In addition, Coach Frank will be able to
depend on several other strong players as
needed. Stonestreet, who played consistently
well at #6 singles last season, could step in and
provide some singles victories.

Burns, sophomore Nick Lewis, and junior
Leroy Butler also have the potential to contrib-
ute to the team this season.

The Wildcats’ doubles combinations also
reflect the team’s inexperience. At the #1

cover your butt.
better yet, help cover your

[tuition].

Collegeean mean maneuvering through a lot of different
istacles, but tuition payments shouldn't be one of them. a -
; you tl have: a ‘shot at a scholarship worth
inds vane count on. Talk to an

#1 Jackson n Circle
woe ae call
-_(704)892- 2165

doubles position, Haywood, who played with
Webb at #3 doubles position during the 2001
season, will be teaming up with freshman
standout Miles.

At the #2 doubles position will be the tough
lefty duo of senior Winebarger and sophomore
Rob Gould. Winebarger and Gould are the
only returning doubles combination from the
2001 season.

Chad and Rob posted impressive doubles
victories against the University of South Caro-
lina and UT-Chattanooga last season. At #3
doubles, Webb, who played with Haywood
last season, and Britt will be teaming up toform
the ’Cats’ final doubles position.

Coach Frank expects the season to be a
formidable challenge for such a young team,
saying, “It’s going to take awhile for this team
to gel.”

In addition to so many inexperienced play-
ers moving into the starting line-ups, Coach
Frank has added some non-traditional oppo-
nents to a schedule traditionally dominated by
intense Southern Conference matches. The
Wildcats will face University of Pennsylvania,
Marquette University, University of Alabama-
Birmingham, and the University of Memphis
this season.

After this week’s action, the Wildcats will be
focusing their attention on next weekend’s
upcoming matches against Liberty University
and the University of South Carolina. “Liberty
will be the first big test,” commented Coach
Frank. Davidson handily defeated the Flames
last season, but the return of several starters
could make Liberty a challenging opponent for
the Wildcats.

Following Saturday’s home match against
Liberty, the Wildcats will travel to Columbia to
face off against the Gamecocks of South Caro-
lina, a team that has consistently performed
well in the SEC, for a Sunday morning match-

up.

Cheerleading, from
page 12

So does cheerleading require
athleticism? Spitz again gave me the
answer I was looking for. “Our girls are
athletic. We run, jump, dance, tumble,
and throw girls in the air, and we smile
while we are doing it.” As a self-pro-
six of the aforementioned tasks. I'm
convinced.

Perhaps, then, cheerleaders are some-
thing other than athletes, a different
breed of sorts. They’ve got something
extra that most of us don’t. As the in-
comparable Jon Davis ’03 aptly sums it
up, “They have a real spark.”

Baseball, from page 12

the Wildcats will be Frend in left, senior Steven
Aldrich in center, and, although right field is
wide open due to the loss of both Stoker and
Parvin, freshman Sam Navarro appears to be
the frontrunner for the job.

Behind the plate, Cooke can turn to either of
his co-captains, but as a result of Ryan’s off-
season shoulder surgery, it is probable that he
will be used as a designated hitter, with Marino
will take over as starting catcher.

The season begins with a five game home
stand starting next Tuesday, as Davidson hosts
ACC powerhouse Wake Forest, a team that
finished in the top 20 of every poll in 2001 and
has advanced to the NCAA tournament in each
of the past four years. With 31 home games, the
2002 Wildcats seen primed to improve on last
season’s record and head to the post season,
where they will look to capture the first confer-
ence title in Davidson history.

Last Wednesday, the regular swimming and
diving season came to an end as the Wildcats
hosted the Duke Blue Devils at Cannon Pool.

Facing stiff competition, the Wildcats fell to the
Devils; the women lost 150-93, the men 123-92.
The women end the season with a record of 2-11,
and the men are 2-10.

The men had some outstanding performances
in the freestyle. Graham Gravley ’02 touched the
wall first in 9:54.87 in the 1000 free.

Forthe second meet in arow, Mike Warner ’02
won both the 50 and 100 with times of 21.93 and
48.57, respectively.

Michael Flowers ’05 placed second in the 500
free. His time of 4:46.70 allowed him to join the
Davidson top 10 for that event.

Continuing to dominate in diving, Chris
Wrobleksi ’05 won the one-meter and the three-
meter diving events.

Finally, the 200 free relay team of Nick Blackwell
*02, Lauren Ropars 03, Nathaniel Wittstruck 05,
and Michael Flowers ’05 earned another victory
for the Wildcats.

On the women’s side, Jenny Hoekstra ’05 won
the 100 free and placed second in the 50.

Kendra Bemer ’02, Shelley Conroy ’02, Erin
Rosintoski ’04, and Jenny Hoekstra ’05 won the
200 free relay in 1:43.09.

Winning the 200-medley relay were Tricia
Blackwell’05, Vanessa Witt’04, Melissa Marquez
05, and Jamie Sansafar ’05. The women also had
several second place finishes: Erin Rosintoski ’04
inthe 200 free, Melissa Marquez inthe 200IM and
the 100 breast, and Sara Laws ’04 in the 100 back.

Next up for the Wildcats are the Colonial
Athletic Association(CAA) Championships, Feb-
ruary 21-24 in Fairfax, Virginia.

..Defore pin-

ning wrestlers

By AMANDA MorDAvSsKY
Staff Writer

On February 1, the Wildcat wrestlers trav-

| eled to Durham, NC to take on the Duke Blue
claimed athlete, I can only do two out of |

Devils. Unfortunately, the Cats were unable to
score any points, losing the match 49-0.

Competition began in the 149-pound bracket,
matching up Davidson junior Grant Doornbos
with Duke’s Luke Palaisano. Palaisano came
out strong, beating Doornbos 8-3.

In the second match, Davidson senior cap-
tain Jeff Bender (157) was paired against Duke’ s

| BenBalmages. Bender entered the competition

with five consecutive victories, but broke his
streak with a 10-6 loss.

In the closest match of the day, Davidson
sophomore Mo Idlibi (165) challenged Duke’s
Tom Glenn. Going into the last period, the
wrestlers were tied 2-2, but with two takedowns,
Glenn won the match 7-3.

The final match-up came between Davidson
junior Mark O’Hair (174) and Duke’s Mike
Mitchell, who won the match decisively, 9-1.
With the win, Mitchell earned his twentieth
career victory.

Sidelined with a torn LCL, junior Adam
Sperling was unable to wrestle and will sit out
the rest of the season.

With its lack of wrestlers, Davidson was
forced to forfeit the remaining match-ups. Once
again, the competition did not count as a team
competition, as NCAA regulations require a
team to have at least seven members compet-
ing.

Bender commented on the team’s perfor-
mance, “Though we were in better shape, we
fell short due to small but significant errors. We
continue to work hard every day.”
