‘College to host conference on Russian-

American relations this weekend

Prominent Russian
scholars will visit for
weekend conference

By Ro anbp F. Foss

Staff Writer

This weekend Davidson College will host
toa group of scholars, students, townspeople,
parents and alumni during what has been

_ termed a “Presidential Weekend.”

Entitled “Russia and America: Security,
Globalization, and Nationalism,” the confer-
ence will include Russian scholars from the
Moscow State Institute of International Rela-

’ tions (MGIMO), a leading diplomat from the
Russian Embassy in Washington and accom-
plished researcher Lilia Shevtsova, a senior
associate at the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace.

Two of the expected visitors, Dr. Vladimir
Pechatnov and Dr. Vladimir Sogrin, have

‘lectured at Davidson in the past. Pechatnov
has co-authored a forthcoming book with Dr.
Earl Edmondson and Dr. Ralph Levering,
both members of the History department at
Davidson. Dr. Ivan Tyulin, the first vice-
president of MGIMO and a professor of po-
litical science, will accompany them.

The conference is an effort to bring to-
gether professors from multiple disciplines,
renowned scholars, and loyal College person-
ages for a thematic exploration of a certain
topic scheme, says Dr. Lou Ortmayer, profes-
sor of Political Science. Such a large-scale
event occurs only once every academic year,
underscoring the importance of this particu-
lar conference. -

The participation of accomplished Rus-
sians in this program.is remarkable because,
in Ortmayer’s opinion, such an event “usually
happens at a research university.” Certainly,
the willingness of the Russians to take part in
the conference signals the esteem in which
Davidson is held in their eyes.

What makes this conference especially
interesting is the fact that some of the partici-
pants—Russian and American—are involved
in a kind of regular exchange program. For
about four years, a blossoming friendship
between the College and the MGIMO has

. resulted in a few visits by key Russians.

Edmondson made a trip to Moscow in Sep-
tember 2000; Davidson hopes to send an-
other professor to MGIMO inthe near future.

Topics during the conference include is-
sues of globalization, security, national iden-
tity, and foreign policy. At the heart of the
event, the conferees will attempt to define
the place that Russia holds in this new global
age, especially in relation to America.

The goal of the conference is to exchange
different perspectives. As Levering notes,
these scholars “will be presenting perspec-
tives that may challenge some of our own pet
ideas. This conference is likely to offer in-
sights that will stay with us for a long time.”

Students welcome new college bar

New bar and grill will
reopen in March under
new management

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff Writer

After several weeks out of operation, the
Davidson Depot facility will reopen its doors
as a new restaurant under new management
sometime in March.

According to SGA Senator Kevin Epps
“03, a new bar and grill under different man-
agement plans to open soon. The restaurant
and bar will be redone, and the new bar will
be more upscale than the old one, though it
will offer fewer taps than before.

The owners have already planned a grand-

Correction

In “College avoids national trends in grade inflation,”
reprinted the Patterson Court Office’s inaccurate average fall GPA of 2.83. The
correct average fall 2001 GPA for the student body was, according to the
Registrar's Office, 3.13. The Davidsonian regrets the error.

(2/6) The Davidsonian

CAnirue FOnicr Riaatae

Feb. 9, 5:30 p.m. - Union Cafe

A physical fight broke out between two female employees of the Union Cafe in the
Alvarez Student Union. Both parties sustained minor injuries and were asked to leave.
It is unsure when, or if, they will return to work.

SPRING BREAK 2002
Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida.
Join Student Travel Services,
Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.
Promote Trips at Davidson College
Earn Cash or Free Trips.
On Campus Contact
Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
Information/ Reservations: 1-800-648-4849

Or www.ststravel.com

Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
: Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com.
or 212-219-7000

SPRING BREAK

opening complete with big-name bands.

Students across campus have expressed
excitement over the reopening of the popular
business and the reestablishment of the
Davison landmark.

“Tt was the only real off-campus hangout
anywhere near Davidson. It played a large
role in social life for upper-classmen,” noted
Richard Vinson ’02.

“Tt’s a good hangout place to get away from
campus with friends, plus it helps to break up
the week with Thirsty Thursdays,” said Steve
Reece ’02.

For many, particularly older students, the
establishment offered an attractive alterna-
tive to other late night Davidson social events.
George Brown ‘03 expressed this popular
opinion, claiming that “it provides a different
environment for social interaction. You can
only go to so many fraternity parties.”

Most students appreciated the close prox-
imity of the bar which in turn made ita safe off

campus establishment within walking dis- —

tance.
“Davidson needs a local bar. Folks don’t

need to be driving to exit 28,” said Ben
Edwards ‘02.

Many Davidson students look forward to
going to the popular bar when they turn 21,
and were disappointed when it temporarily
closed down.

“T look forward to going as a rite of pas-
sage,” claimed Khoury Ashooh ’03.

The food from the restaurant also drew
many Davidson students.

“The food was really good fora bar/restau-
rant,” said Charlotte McCormick ‘04.

Other students recognized the historical
importance of the establishment. and ex-
pressed sympathy over losing a Davidson
landmark.

“[The Depot] has been active for years. It
was used for shipping before major high-
ways came through the area. The railroad
and the Depot put Davidson on the map, and
because of it Main Street exists, ” noted La
Powell ‘03.

Regardless of their reasons, the majority
of students on campus look forward to seeing
the Depot back on the social scene.

GPAs, from page 1

tion problem that automatically assumes no
GPA in a given term is a GPA of 0. That’s
largely students who were studying abroad,”
said Epes. The more members of each house
that were abroad, the lower the house GPA
was.

Patterson Court Advisor Grahaeme Hesp
distributed the computer-generated results
to house presidents via email on January 17.
The data was also published on the Patterson
Court page of the Davidson website: Epes
notes that all grade reports should be ap-
proved by his office before publication or
release. “Patterson Court is nota valid source
for GPA information. [The data] should not
have been released in that fashion without
verification,” he said. Hesp was unavailable
for comment.

Epes realized the error several days after
the Patterson Court-generated report was
published in the Davidsonian. He then alerted
the dean of students, the Patterson Court
office and other administrators of the incor-
rect information. He did not foresee signifi-
cant repercussions. “I thought, everyone pub-
lishes an error somewhere. No big deal,” said
Epes.

Action did result fori the grade report.
The 12 fraternities and eating houses were
ranked according to their average fall GPAs.

Last month, PCC released its annual stan-
dards report. Due to the data from the grade
report, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Warner
Hall did not meet PCC’s academic require-
ments. .

“We were very disappointed to notice the
how much our house’s GPA had dropped
since last year. As a result of the incorrect
data that was issued, Warner Hall failed our
PCC standards. We are glad to see this cor-
rection made in our GPA. The correct data
fortunately resulted in standards reports be-
ing reconfigured by the PCC,” said Maryanne
Warner ’03, president of Warner Hall.

The recalculated standards report amends
Warner Hall’s failing mark. It also notes that
SAE’s GPA improved, although not enough
to pass standards. “I apologize for the error in
the standards calculation, especially to
Warner Hall and that I am pleased that only
two houses did not make standards, which is
awesome. Now, Patterson Court organiza-
tions must focus in order to have all twelve
houses meet standards next spring,” said
PCC Chancellor Nancy Kohler ‘03.

In a Feb. 7 email to house presidents,
administers and others, including The
Davidsonian, Hesp noted that any action
taken as a result of the erroneous grade report
will be reconsidered.

News Editor Colin Eagan contributed to
this story. Please see revised GPAs, page 4.
