By Ros Hemrick
Staff Writer

‘As first-year and transfer students settle into
their lives as members of the Davidson com-
munity, they already have one rite of passage
under their belts.

SI men give Orien : :

“Tikedit,” says first-year student Sean Sonni
“Tt wasn’t so much that the events were bad, it
was how many there were in sucha short time.”
He explains that perhaps if the required por-

tions of the ordeal were “spread out over a - ' :
- Americans, Hispanic Americans and interna-

eek” rather than packed into a single week-
end, students

New Student Ori- , would have
entation, an arinual found it more
program for stu- : 7 manageable.

dents entering the “Tfelt like a baby duck. d ‘ Mike Giglio

college, took place

from Wednesday, --;
Aug. 21, to Sun-
day, Aug. 25, and
included events
designed to introduce the students to the col-
lege and to one another. In addition to moving
in and meeting room and hall mates, new
students were encouraged and, in some cases,
required to attend events such as lectures on
safety at Davidson, tours of the library, book
discussions, and meetings on spiritual life and
technology services.

In the wake of this collective. experience
comes inevitable backlash. “1 felt like a baby
duck,” says Cory Maluski 06, explaining his
aggravation over the tightly scheduled nature
of the program. Several students were simi-
larly upset over the regimentation and careful
structuring of each event,

Others disagree, pointing outthat some struc-
ture is necessary for students to adapt to their
new environment.

- Cory Maluski ‘06

°06 cites the
service project
as his favorite
aspect. The
projects, which
took place on Saturday morning, included tasks
such as loading 40,000 pounds of potatoes into
bags and trucks for distribution, collecting food
from local neighborhoods, and making hun-
dreds of sandwiches in an effort to feed pov-
erty-stricken members of the surrounding com-
munity.

Other students relayed their admiration for
the Honor Code Commitment Ceremony, ar-
guably the most important aspect of the expe-
rience, which took place the final evening of the
program. At this event, all new students be-
came official members of the Davidson com-
munity through their respective pledges to up-
hold Davidson’s most revered tradition.

Intermingled with the energy and enthusi-
asm that comes with the new students arriving
on campus is a discussion regarding the back-

grounds of theclass of 2006. Last year, Davidson
enrolled a record number of students coming

from ethnically diverse backgrounds — 19% of

the entering class of 2005 was composed of
students describing themselves as African

tional students, according to Davidson’s
website.

This year, numbers fall sharply below this
mark.

College president Bobby Vagt responds to
this trend, “Cultural and ethnic diversity in
terms of the admitted class is less than last year,
and that’s something about which we need to
re-double our efforts.” ”

Asa whole, Vagt considers this year’s Ori-
entation a success, due in no small part to the
support and enthusiasm of the parents of in-
coming students.

“Parents were as engaged as I’ve ever seen
them,” he said. “I mean, they were all over this
thing. I think it’s great.”

The students may not all be in agreement as
to the overall effectiveness of the Orientation
program, but many said they feel more wel-
come and acquainted with the campus, the
school and each other than they had prior to
arriving here.

Vagt is enthusiastic about the first year stu-
dents and their futures at Davidson. “As you

look at the accomplishments of each class, you~

say, ‘Wow. Howcanit get any better?’ Andthe

fact of the matter is, it does every year. It’s

another extraordinary class.”

Summer reading gets new students talking

Freshmen — discuss
book about life on the
American poverty line

\—~ By AMEE PaTEL
Staff Writer

When UNC Chapel Hill assigned portions
of the Q’uran as summer reading assign-
ments, a legal and political battle engulfed
the campus.

_ Here at Davidson, the class of 2006 en-
countered far less controversy over their sum-
mer reading, Nickel and Dimed by Barbara
Ehrenreich. Documenting one journalist’s
experience working various minimum wage
jobs around the country, Nickel and Dimed
aims to provide a complete picture of poverty

in the working class of America. t

While still in the midst of Orientation, the
new students gave their insight on the issue of
the working poor through small group book
discussions. Many found the discussion re-
warding and perceptive. Will.Scheffers of
Gaborone, Botswana says, “The discussion
gave a taste of what is expected of us at
Davidson. You have to think for yourself and
not rely on a professor or other students. It
really helped me prepare for how work will
be here.”

The small group discussions, which were
led by faculty and assisted by returning stu-
dents, encompassed several of the issues of
Nickel and Dimed.

The feasibility of living comfortably on a
minimum wage salary was consistently
brought up. Ehrenreich’ s investigation proves
that the “American dream” of economic suc-
cess through hard work is not as attainable as
one would hope. She discovers that- “the
poorer [the working poor] are, the more con-
strained their mobility usually is.”

Along with this constraint, Ehrenreich
fights to keep her dignity in a world deter-
mined to outcast her poverty-level jobs. She
concludes, “If you’re made to feel unworthy
enough, you may come to think that what
you’re paid is what you are actually worth.”

The class of 2006 felt the impact of this
lesson in their lives. Many students found a

new respect for Wal-Mart employees, hotel
maids, waitresses, and other professions. As
Courtney Valiga from Philadelphia admits,
“After reading Nickel and Dimed, I have
become more friendly to people I would
usually walk by without even noticing.”
Another issue brought up in the discussion
groups was the credibility of Ehrenreich’s
experiment. Valiga asks, “Is it possible for
the wealthy to pretend to be pooras Ehrenreich
did? Of course not, because they can always
drop everything and return to their normal
lives.” Valiga, along with many first year
students, was skeptical of Ehrenreich’s ex-
periment and found that her strong personal-
ity detracted from the focus of the book.
But Ehrenreich’s evaluation surpasses her
budget or ego troubles. She writes, “The
problem goes beyond my personal failings
and miscalculations.. Something is wrong,
very wrong, when a single person in good
health, a person who in addition possesses a
working car, can barely support herself by the
sweat of her brow. You don’t need a degree in
economics to see that wages are too low and
rents too high.”
While the new class debated many of the

N 7

Jum

issues in the book, the concepts of hard work
and social inequity were clearly illuminated.
As Scheffers warns, “Don’t trust statistics
that you may read. There are many that say
that you can make ends meet with only one
job. But obviously this is not true.”

photo y College Communications

Professor Jeanne O'Neill leads a discussion group.

oriert

Weather’s cooler,
but College still
deemed ‘hot’

By JuLie GorF
Staff Writer —

It’s not everyday that a small liberal arts
college from the Southeast makes national
headlines.

But Davidson did last week, after the 2003
Kaplan/Newsweek guidebook “How to Get Into
College” selected Davidson as one of America’s
“12 Hottest Colleges.” According to the publica-
tion, Davidson ranks among schools “drawing
raves” in the fall admission process of high school
seniors.

How come? According to a spokesperson
from Kaplan, the national research firm head-
ing the quest for these exclusive 12, this
year's schools are “hidden treasures that par-
ents and students should take a look at in
addition to all the name-brand schools.”

Those on the inside of Davidson are hon-
ored, but still alittle puzzled. President Bobby
Vagt agrees that at the very least, this gives
the college good press. “It’s one of those
things that you hear and wantto roll your eyes
and say “What’s the substance behind this?’
On the other hand, it gets Davidson as aname
and place in front of a lot of people, so you
can’t say ‘Who cares?’”

The guidebook notes that Davidson is at-
tracting more students outside the Southeast
region with its “bucolic North Carolina cam-
pus.” Of course, admission applicants are
also lured by the quality pre-med program
and the unique combination of competitive
Division I sports at a small liberal-arts col-
lege. Because Davidson is one of the smallest
Division I schools, 25 % of the student body
plays one of 21 varsity sports.

According to the publication, applicants
looking to round out Davidson’s liberal-arts
student population take interest in the strong
music and art departments, which both have
new facilities and quality resources. Intimate
performance halls inthe newly opened Sloan
Music Center and private art studios in Belk
Visual Arts Center are just some perks hope-
ful applicants can look forward to.

In addition to strong academics, sports and

facilities, Kaplan/Newsweek highlights the
“small-town atmosphere and the fact that it’s
easy to get involved in social activities and
community-service” as further support of
Davidson’s national appeal to college-bound
high schoolers.
. Inthe words of prospective student Holly
McHugh of Randolph, NJ, Davidson is ap-
pealing to her because “‘it offers students a
nice blend of academics, Division I sports
and service opportunities in ministry.”

The other colleges and universities which
complete this year’s “hottest 12” include big,
small, public, private, urban and rural institu-
tions: Arizona State, Boston College, UC

- Santa Barbara, George Washington Univer-

sity, Kenyon College, Macalester College,

‘ University of Maryland-Baltimore County,

McGill University, UNC Chapel Hill,
Pepperdine and eaves of Washington at
Seattle.
