volving alcohol on the Van. Express rules and
regulations were approved by SGA in order to
more strictly enforce previously unwritten
guidelines for the functioning of the Vamanos
Van and its drivers.

- The RLO Committee kept busy throughout
the semester, keeping SGA up-to-date on de-
velopments with the Martin Court housing lot-
tery and the possible creation of more smoke-
free dorms on campus.

Animated debate arose when Dean
Marsicano and Leslie Urban of RLO came to
discuss lottery policy with the senators; RLO is
now considering the implementation of a“pure”’
housing lottery for seniors (as opposed to the
RLO-conducted current system which takes
preferences and behavioral records: into ac-
count).

SGA also debated the merits and drawbacks

of converting all on-campus housing (except

meetings, because the only information sena-
tors have received isa list of positive aspects of
smoke-free living (as drawn up by RLO).

Finally, at the last meeting, Senator Chris
Pratt-Dannals ’05 announced that Joel’s Grill
has followed Domino’s Pizza: students may
now use their Domino’s PIN to purchase deliv-
ery food with their CatCards.

Senator Kathryn Wilson ’06 also discussed
the school’s commitment to bettering handicap
accessibility around campus.

Although Davidson will soon have to spend
millions of dollars to completely comply with
Americans with Disability (ADA) standards,
the Physical Plant is looking to complete some
projects before the end of the school year.
Davidson has hired ADA consultants to assess
what needs to be done for compliance with
federal regulations; the consultants’ report will
come out in March.

Charlotte, from page 1

the cross-country rivalry captures fans’ interest
every year.
“It’s a great atmosphere,” said Davidson as-

_ sistant coach Jason Zimmerman. “Two teams

15 miles apart. There’s a lot of history there. It’s
an exciting game.”

After losing five seniors from a team that
reached the NCAA Tournament last year, most
experts expected the Wildcats to struggle with
returnees adjusting to new positions and three
freshmen forced into playing heavy minutes.

But a smooth transition to point guard for
Wayne Bernard (17 points, seven assists per
game) and an eye opening start by the freshmen,
primarily Ian Johnson (16 points per game), is
changing those expectations.

After the near-upset of Duke, CBS commen-
tator Billy Packer listed Davidson as one of four
“surprise teams” in college basketball. ESPN’s
Dick Vitale also singled out Johnson’s play and
described Davidson as a mid-major team to
watch.

“Even though we didn’t get a W against
Duke, we were within six points to a ranked
team,” said Bernard. “Not many teams can even
come that close. A lot of people underestimated
us. I might be a little extra-excited about this
[Charlotte] game.”

FAMILY CUTS

Hair Salon
(Under New Management)
704-896-8440

Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing

No Appointment Necessary
(Recommended for color and perma}

Open 7 Days a Week

Mon-Fri.

:00a.m.-8:00p.m.
Saturday 9:00e.m.-6:00p.m.
Sunday  ‘1100p.m.-Sr00p.m.

20121 #C North Main St. Cometius
Comeitus Town Center
Exit 28 (115 and Catawbe Ave.)
Located near the Pood Lion

Len

Famity Cuts
Vow

eactt 28}
Retail and Skin care Products available
10% off all services to Davidson Students .

Catawba Ava

Hoy 115

to ) encourage ¢ deep breaths

By BRANDON CARROLL
Staff Writer

Is Davidson a stressful place? Three studio
art students thought so, and reached out to the
community for their recent project. The goal of
Sian Jones ’05, Lindsay Nakaishi ’05, and
Rachel Jenkins ’06 was to create an installation
that Jones described as “basically non-tradi-
tional art that conveys its meaning by how the
viewer interacts with it.”

The assignment was a final project for Pro-
fessor Ray Kleinlein’s studio art class. The
students put out a bulletin that ran in The Crier
for several days. They asked for submissions of
any sort, initially in the form of old exams,
professors’ comments, term papers, etc. In the
end, students anonymously wrote their own
reactions and thoughts about stress at Davidson
on small strips of paper, which were compiled
to create the content.

Jones said, “I think that the idea of the project,
more than making a statement about our levels
of stress, was to get people talking about all the
work we have and whether it is all necessary.”

Jenkins said, “We wanted to question whether
it’s necessary [or] whether we bring it upon
ourselves, and the repercussions in non-aca-
demic life.”

The project was on display in the Union and
outside the library. It recently moved to a new
home in Chambers, where you may have passed
it on your way to class.

Speaking about the Davidson community,
Jones feels that the stress level should be part of
the campus dialogue. “I think that the amount of
work we are given here, combined with all the
other things that we are expected to do [such as]
community service, sports, etc., puts most
people in a position where if they aren’t doing
work they are constantly aware of what is
looming in the future and what they should be
doing.” She added that she knows many stu-
dents who are “burned out,” and sometimes

’ feels that way herself, and she thought “starting

a dialogue might be a good first step.”
Jenkins admits that the academic work alone
does not shoulder all the blame. “My reluctance

Senior Experience Calendar

December 2002:

th. i

and procrastination are the real causes of stress.
As for the larger community, I think people let
themselves get stressed to easily, [because]
people feel like they should be stressed in order
to be productive or a good citizen or a normal
person, when that’s not true at all. Our environ-
ment trains us to be stressed.”

On the subject of a positive campus reaction
such, she added, “I think it would be nice for
people to just stop and take a few deep breaths °

every once in a while. Students, myself in-

cluded, should probably learn to spend time
wisely to avoid stress at that last minute. Profes-
sors could give us more freedom and room for
creativity in assignments so that we can get
excited about our work and not just plug and
chug.”

Justin Neill, a first-year student, commented
on the level of stress. “I feel like there is a lot of
work here, but then there are people playing
football in the hallway right now. There’s stuff
going on like that all the time. Some people are
stressed, but it seems like other people never
are.”

With the stress art ¢ on display in such promi-
nent locations, it will be visible to prospective
students taking tours of the campus. Admis-
sions officer Mike Brady commented about
how the display might affect prospective stu-
dents’ perceptions of Davidson, saying that the
office is concerned insofar as any event on
campus might affect prospective students’
views. “We're always concerned about fami-
lies’ views from tours,” he said. He added that
during an information session last week one
question did-bring up the display, but only
served to reinforce what parents and applicants
already knew: Davidson carries a demanding
workload.

He continued, saying, “Davidson sells itself,
and we don’t have to represent it or misrepre-
sent it.

“That’s the same reason we keep current
issues of the Davidsonian in our lobby. We talk
to families, and we want to answer their ques-
tions. Our goal is to represent Davidson to
families as honestly and truthfully as we can,
and that includes what students are talking
about.”

r

Recharge on Reading Day with some coffee or hot cocoa in a
Davidson latte mug in the 900 Room at 10PM, sponsored by RLO.

areers in...’

Teese by Career Rerviccs Office)
Careers in Business: Sales, Financial Planner, Real Estate
Development, Cash Management, Corporate Accountant, Credit

Analyst, Corporate Logistics

Wednesday, January 22, 7PM, location TBA

The Senior Class Gift has reached 79% pledged + paid
participation! Many seniors have already pledged to give: pay
your pledge before Senter peeak to get it out of the way! Just

log on to https://ww

g to pay your pledge. If

the Class of 2003 reaches 75 % PAID participation, President and
Mrs. Vagt will donate $12,003 on behalf of the Senior Class Gift to

_ the Annual Fund. Don’t miss your opportunity to support
Davidson and show your class pride!

Upcoming events:

~ “Careers in .

-” Series continues with monthly events through April

- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue

throughout the academic year

Good luck on exams and enjoy your — break!
