0 0 02
Se ae ee

"he. Maris Era: Oibin ape pa ie back on fer

Senior reflects on his greatest achievements and regrets

By Timotiy Cook

Managing Editor

In an attempt to get to the heart of the
student body here at Davidson, I amas of this
issue switching the format of my column from
pointless fart jokes to in-depth biographies
on'some of the student leaders who have been
valuable movers and shakers and are first

hand witnesses to the changes here at school.

My first biography is a traditional one —SGA
President Joey Harris ’02.

I first met Joey my freshmen year while the
then-SGA Vice President was my Hall Coun-
selor on 4" Watts. Along with SGA Chancel-
lor Elder Gwinn, our hall flourished with
leadership and friendship and with a window

into the heart of the school as Joey kept us °

informed on all kinds of things to do around
school. I soon formed a pretty convenient
relationship with Joey as I joined the
Davidsonian and served as News Editor. I
was always happy to be the first to know what
stories. we had to run in our paper. And it
wasn't just with me; Joey had a great rela-
tionship with all of our Editorial Board and
through him the newspaper and SGA became
interdependent. But we will get to that later.

With the back-story in place we may now
proceed with the article.

The past couple of years have been very
important ones in the 160 plus year history of
Davidson College. This year’s seniors have
seen their campus go through extreme changes

only to reappear from its cocoon of dirt and
construction with an extreme sense of cen-
tralized community. And though all of the
class of 2002 has played a role and has toiled
without good walkways and campus roads
for their time, Joey Harris has played the role
of elected leader of that class and this school

for all of those years. Though Harris’s rise to
SGA President was not his original intent, he ©

wonders what he will do without it.

ollege Communications
Harris conducts a meeting as

former president, Dane Erickson
‘02, looks on.

Harris came to Davidson with a very im-
pressive history under his belt. He had served
as Student Body or Student Council Presi-
dent at both his middle and high schools since
he was in the eighth grade. So, in his mind it
was time for a break.

“Before I came to Davidson I decided that
I was drained and exhausted of SGA and
Student Council,” said Harris. “I wanted to

‘aged and more fun body.

focus on Community Service and Debate.”

But Davidson didn’t have a debate team,
nor did it have a mock trial team until last
year. And since he had no aspirations to try
out for the golf team, which he played on in
high school, Harris decided that SGA was at
least something to do.

And something he did.

The Harris administration has seen a great
turnaround in the way SGA is perceived.
After winning the position of freshmen class
President and then sophomore class presi-
dent, Harris decided to run for an officer’s
position to gain the experience he knew would
be needed to try for SGA President the year
after. He won the Vice President position
under President Dane Erickson and the next
year defeated then-Junior Class President
Bobby Pittenger ’02 for SGA President in a
great race. He was then in the position to
really work on reforming the association.

“Before my freshman year SGA was not
living up to its potential. We weren’t focus-
ing on the little things.” Said Harris.

It is for this reason that Harris and his
Senate worked on getting an Online SGA
Forum for sparking discussion and legisla-
tion started, which he says has
been a great success. The pre-
decessor to the Forum, online
voting, was also an instrumen-
tal tool in gaining the support of
SGA from a much wider per-
centage of the student body.

But Harris does not hog all of
the glory on accomplishments
of SGA. He is quick to cite his
stellar cabinet and all of the sena-
tors for their work in making
SGA. a friendlier, better-man-

For example, Harris would
probably have gotten himself
into some trouble by now if it
hadn’t been for his trusty chan-

- cellor, Elder Gwinn ’02. Finances have also

been easier with help from Treasurer Carla
Bullock ’02 who did much in making the
SGA budget anything but a lost secret — and
helping the organization

But another big reason that SGA has be-
come a much more approachable and better-
observed organization is due to the redesign-
ing of the campus. The new Knobloch Cam-
pus Center and Alvarez Union created a gath-
ering place that is close to everything on

al | campus. They also offer offices that are not
») hidden away in dark corridors like the Old

Union, but instead offices like the SGA office
that overlooks two stories next to an open
atrium.

“At the beginning of construction people
thought that the new Union was in a bad
place,” remarked Harris. And to add to that
there was constant digging and paving for
several years until now when the campus
“finally looks like a campus again.”

Blessed with good fortune and a multitude
of successes, Harris is hard-pressed to find
failures in his administration that weren’t
thought of as long shots to start with.

Harris even cites one of his biggest failures
in SGA as one of his greatest accomplish-
ments. Though it’s hard to imagine, when the
class of 2002 were freshmen there were no
hall lounges except for the larger ones on the
ground floors in each building. The next
year, Harris and other members of the Senate
tried desperately to persuade the administra-
tion that the students should be able to have
cable in their dorm rooms since the lounges
were so inconvenient for many. Though the
resolution failed when it reached President
Vagt, the school did, as a compromise, create
a lounge with cable on each floor.

Thanks, Joey, for all of your service and

College Communica

Harris presides over the SGA.

dedication to the school and to SGA. You
have been a great President and spokesman,
but more importantly, you have been a great
friend to all of Davidson. There is no doubt
that your legacy will linger on as the college
begins to reap all of the rewards of its chaning
personality.

Be on the lookout for more biographies on
student leaders here at Davidson. I hope that
by the end we all will have a good idea of what
Davidson is all about and where we are
going.

THE

OPTICALSHOP

OF LAKE

NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O. - MARY SALOPEK, A.8.0.

EYE EXAMINATIONS

> BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON AD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE
PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE ie.”

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX -

SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY
