VOLUME 93, NUMBER 2A

Face Lit:

A new Richardson Plaza entrance will replace the back of
Love Auditorium; a computer illustration shows Chambers’ antici-
pated new look. Story, page 2.

Third social forum features

presentations, discussion

Alcohol, transportation
and faculty committees
present suggestions

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

Despite low turnout, the third social forum |

of 2001-2002 might be considered the most
productive of the series. On Wednesday,
April 17, students, faculty and staff gathered
together to present the findings and sugges-
tions of six small committees. Suggestions
ranged from improved off-campus transpor-
tation, to new alcohol education policies, to
improved communication between various
campus social organizations.

Many of the newest ideas came from the
Transportation committee. According to
College President Bobby Vagt, members of
the transportation committee have already
started talks with the Ragin’ Uptown bus
about a possible relationship with the cam-
pus. ““We might havea special Saturday night
activity for Davidson students,” Vagt ex-
plained.

Also.on the table: more regular transporta-*
tion between Davidson and places like Con-
cord Mills, Wal-Mart and Charlotte. “We
need to make people more familiar with pub-
lic transport. Few students know that youcan
get picked up at the VAC and go almost
anywhere in Cornelius and Huntersville,”
commented Vagt.

see Forum 9 page 4

‘ F Israeli-Palestinian conflict ©

sparks campus protest

Students wear homemade
t-shirts to protest US role
in Middle East |

By Nick AsMA
Senior Staff Writer

A movement has appeared on campus over
the past two weeks featuring student protests
of the recent Israeli invasions of the occupied
territories in the Middle East.

Students including Sean Brooks ’04, Kevin
James ’03, and Alex Massingale ’04 staged
the first form of protest on Friday, April 12 by
wearing homemade t-shirts with statements
on them and posting flyers throughout Cham-
bers to voice their opinions of the conflict.

The idea for the protest began slowly and
grew gradually into a highly visible move-
ment. Students had been discussing the issue
for weeks before the idea was conceived
through e-mails exchanged between friends
who shared similar viewpoints on this crucial
political issue.

The group finally decided they needed to
do something and met on the top floor of the
Union at midnight on Thursday, April 11 to
make the shirts. Kevin James had purchased
white t-shirts and permanent markers earlier
in the day to decorate.

That evening over 50 people designed indi-
vidual shirts to wear on Friday as a form of

~ silent protest. The shirts featured different

phrases as those participating were allowed
to. write whatever they wanted. Common
phrases included “Stop the Killing Now,”
while others were written in Hebrew and
some had quotes from Kofi Annan.
Massengale wore a shirt with the phrase

~ “Sharon is A Criminal” on the front and “4

Billion U.S. Aid + Israeli Defense Force =
Murder” on the back.
No formal organization or leadership was

involved in the protest. It was merely a “spon-
taneous grassroots movement,” claimed
Massengale.

“The protest emerged from a growing e-
mail list of concerned students on campus,”
said Brooks.

After the first protest on Friday, the group
has worked with Amnesty International to
setup tables to distribute information and
collect money for a relief organization.

The group is currently discussing whether
or not to become a formal group on campus.

Asked what exactly they were protesting,
Brooks stated, “We were and are still protest-
ing the murderous Israeli invasion of the
occupied territories. We object to the use of
violence in the regime as a means to bring
about peace and stability.

“We were shocked and outraged by the
reports from the occupied territories, which
described the killing of hundreds of innocent
Palestinians. Our group condemns all forms
of violence, both by the IDF and Palestinian
suicide bombers. We are not a pro-Palestin-
ian or anti-Israeli group.”

Furthermore, he claimed, “We were and
are protesting against the United States gov-
ernment which we feel has ignored the hu-
manitarian crisis in the Occupied Territories
and has failed to rein in our ‘friend,’ Israel.

“Many of us feel that the United States,
because of the money that they give to Israel
each year ($4 billion), is complicit in all of the
actions of the Israeli government and their
military, including the possible ‘war crimes’
that the United Nations is beginning to inves-
tigate.”

Massengale added that another important
goal of the movement was to “shed light and
create dialogue on the current situation.” The
political science department, he claimed,
“should be running forums where different
perspectives can be presented and people can

see T-Shirts 9 page 3

Self-Selection policies debated at Monday PCC meeting

Committee recommends
methods to even eating
house size over 10 years

By TimotHuy Cook
Managing Editor

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) voted
on Monday to accept a proposal designed to
restructure the Self-Selection process into
eating houses. The proposal presented con-
sisted primarily of a ten-year plan that redis-
tributes females gradually into the four all-
women and one co-ed house so that by the
tenth year each house will have roughly the
same amount of members.

The team assigned to the project consisted
of So¢ial Chair Boyd Stephenson (03-SPE),
Ian Willoughby (03-CoHo), Patrick McShane
(04-SAE) and Erin Hoffman (03-Turner).
The group put together a presentation based
on two goals: 1) eliminating “ rush” and
2) making sure that “no girl is crying on self-

selection morning.”

The first goal revolves around the fact that
eating houses are not allowed to rush for
members like fraternities do. Instead women
choose eating houses in which they want to
join in order of most desired to least in late
January of each year. -

The team added another scheduled “rush”
event to the list of authorized activities and
clarified what those activities may be —regis-
tered parties, dinners, non-alcoholic events
and semi-formals.

.Males are also given an opportunity to self-
select into either a fraternity as a social mem-

ber or join directly into CoHo, the only co-ed»

eating house.

The second part of the plan employed the
services of Dr. Laurie Heyer of the Math
Department. She and one of her classes
worked on an algorithm that lowered the
number of women receiving their lowest
choice house and that also narrows the gap
between large houses and small houses over
a ten-year span.

As of last Fall that gap is over. 100 mem-

bers, with Rusk house having over 150 mem-
bers and Turner house having only 50. The
new system would allot the largest numer of
first-year students to the smallest houses, and
vice-versa with the larger houses.

After the proposal was made and questions

were answered, PCC President Daniel Hanks
(03-PDT) moved to vote on whether to accept
it. The proposal passed with little opposition.

After the first proposal passed, a second

see Court 9 page 2

Photo by College Communications
Thomas Ward ‘04 in Love’s
Labour’s Lost. Story on page 5.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-4
Chambers Building will get a facelift.
Page 2.

Arts and Living Pages 5-6
Shakespeare reviewed . Page 5.

Perspectives Pages 7-8
Kegs and Earth Day. Page 8.

Sports Pages 9-12
Baseball achieves 500 wins. Page 12.

