" Wenespay, Serremper 25, 2002

"SPORTS EDITOR ~

When Fans Attack: Coming
soon to a stadium near you

During last Thursday’s game between the
Chicago White Sox and the visiting Kansas
City Royals, William Ligue Jr. and his 15-
year-old son jumped the fence at Comisky
Park and attacked Royals first-base coach
Tom Gamboa, who suffered only minor facial
injuries despite being blindsided by the two
shirtless fans, the elder of whom was allegedly
carrying a pocket knife.

The on-field assault was the second fright-
ening game disruption in the world of sports
last week.

Monday Night Football’s broadcast of the
Philadelphia Eagles and Washington Redskins
game was stopped briefly with 6:38 left in the
fourth quarter because, as referee Bob
McElwee announced, “some kind of foreign
substance [had been] sprayed on the Eagles
sideline.”

After an eight minute delay, it was discov-
ered that police had used pepper spray to
subdue rowdy fans seated behind the Philadel-
phia bench, but the phrase “foreign substance”
uttered in a highly populated arena in Wash-
ington D.C. was certainly cause for great con-
cem.

Both instances, while calling attention to
serious security problems, demonstrate that
today’s fans are simply out of control.

Don’t get me wrong; I’ma firm believer that
going toa game is all about the fan experience.
If I have a seat in the right field bleachers at
Fenway, I’m reaching over the fence to catch
the damn ball.

To hell with fan interference, souvenirs are
part of why we pay to watch the games.

But where do we draw the line?

I have a friend who once jumped the fence
and slid into second base.

He was arrested for trespassing and released
on $100 bail, but told me afterwards that it was
completely worth it just to hear 33,000 people
go wild.

Most, ifnoteveryone, at Comisky last Thurs-
day thought the two shirtless fans were simply
running on the field for same kind of rush.

“When I saw the two guys running to first
base, I thought they were going to run the
bases like they normally do,’’ Royals out-
fielder Carlos Beltran, said following the inci-
dent.

Andas for fighting in the stands, that makes
no sense whatsoever. Believe it or not, there is

very little a fan can do to influence the out- :

come of a game.

Sure, home field advantage is a factor, but
the crowd does little else but make noise and
provide moral support.

Not once has a fan scored the winning goal
or returned a kickoff in overtime. People who
fight in the stands at games need to seriously
re-evaluate their priorities. -

Stadiums should consider implementing
psychiatric scanning at the gates along with
metal detectors to boost security and prevent
scares like the one last Monday.

As fans, we need to understand our role.

Though it may be hard to swallow, players
don’t really care about us. When was the last
time an athlete stalked a fan?

On Thursday; with police escorting the two
assailants off the field, Royal’s first baseman
Mike Sweeney marched alongside one of the
two men and delivered a verbal assault. ‘’]
wanted to kill him,’’ Sweeney said.

“I’ve never seen anything like that in base-
ball. That stuff just doesn’t happen here in the
United States and Major League Baseball.”’

One Sports Illustrated article, published
about a year ago, reported that a fan at an
English soccer game smuggled in a crossbow
(how that happens is beyond me) and shot an
opposing supporter dead.

Let’s hope the American public discovers
what it means to be a true fan before something
like this happens on our home soil.

Two fans were arrested last week at Chicago White Sox game
after attacking the Royals’ first base coach.

*

Youth lead the way in cross
country’s second place finish

Sophomore Stanhope,
freshman Martin place
in top 10.at Winthrop

By Brooke KITTINGER
Staff Writer

With their first race in the bank, the women’s
cross-country team experienced a rewarding
outcome at the Winthrop Invitational on Sat-
urday. The team placed second at a ten-team
meet with two runners finishing in the top
twelve. UNC-Asheville won the meet, while
Davidson defeated longtime rival UNC-Char-
lotte, as well as Winthrop, High Point, Charles-
ton Southern, Radford, Elon, Wofford, and
South Carolina State.

The young duo of sophomore Sally
Stanhope and freshman Allie Martin led the
‘Cats with eighth and ninth places finishes and

times of 19:10 and 19:11, respectively. Junior
captain Laura Puckett was close behind at
19:37. Freshman Hilary Leister and senior
captain Liz Gross also scored for the Wildcats
with times of 19:49 and 20:14.

Overall, the team was very pleased with
the outcome. The women have been training
hard, and they wanted to channel the energy
from their intense workouts into great a race
performance. “Reward yourselves,” head
coach Jennifer Straub has been saying to her
runners all season. They did exactly that.

Captain Laura Puckett adds, “This weekend
we worked on transferring our strength and
confidence from workouts to races, and over-
all it showed in better times and a better team
finish.”

Over the hill of the first two races, these lady
Wildcats are sprinting toward a promising
season. Their next meet is Friday, September
27 at Charlotte’s Ballantyne Resort.

Women’s soccer remains
undefeated in SoCon action

By Justin NEILL
Staff Writer

A difficult non-conference schedule can
have one of two effects on a team. It can raise
the team’s level of play and boost its confi-
dence, or it can frustrate the team and ruin that
confidence. Playing games against top-tier
teams is a good way to gain experience, but it
has damaging potential.

Said Davidson’s Kevin Hundley, the
women’s soccer coach, after a difficult week-
end at the Rocky Rococo Classic in Wisconsin
from September 13" — 15", “We can’t rest on
our laurels and be happy with losing. There
aren’t any more moral victories. We want to
win these games [against Appalachian State
and East Tennessee State].”

His team responded by posting two victo-
ries this past week that brought the Wildcats’s
record to 3-0 in the Southern Conference and
3-5 overall. They are the only team in the
Southern Conference with more than one con-
ference victory.

On Thursday at Appalachian State, the
Davidson attack managed only five shots but
was able to put the first goal on the board in the
16" minute when junior striker Leigh Anne
Hoskins scored unassisted. It was her fourth
goal of the season and the 24" of her career.

While the Mountaineers came out on the
attack in the second half in an attempt to erase
that deficit, sophomore goalie Sarah Hobart
continued to play strong with five saves. Jun-
ior Alia Antonucci-Alter scored in the 73”
minute on assists from freshman Jenny Soldano
and junior Stephanie Bouts to give the Wild-
cats a 2-0 lead, which proved to be the final
margin. Davidson is now sue against the
Mountaineers.

Bad weather clouded the second outing
of the week, which took place in Johnston City
against East Tennessee State on Sunday. In
this match, the Wildcats attempted 25 shots in
what would turn into a thrilling game.

The Buccaneers scored first and held a 1-0
lead at halftime, thanks to a goal by Erin
Ashton. The Wildcats kept attacking, how-
ever, and eventually managed to get a shot past
goalie Heather Sanden in the 61“ minute when
senior Heather Maloney scored her fourth
goal of the season on an assist from Deneille
Erikson. The goal ties her with fellow forward
Leigh Anne Hoskins for the team lead. It also
marked the 31“ goal of her career, moving her
within eight of the school record.

East Tennessee State attempted to strike
back, but Sarah Hobart made five saves to
keep the game tied into overtime. After she
made an outstanding save in the second over-
time to preserve the game, junior Amy Johnston
scored on an assist from Hoskins and fresh-
man Kara Koehrn to give the ‘Cats the victory.

Coach Hundley was very satisfied with his
team’s performance on the week. “These are
two of the toughest places in the conferent to
play, and to leave with victories is satisfying,”
he said.

This week the Wildcats return home for
games against conference opponents Chatta-
nooga on Friday at 7 pm and Western Carolina
on Sunday at 1 pm. Despite being ranked
ninth out of ten teams in preseason polls,
Chattanooga is 5-1 this season, with a 3-0
shutout of College of Charleston in their con-
ference opener. Western Carolina was pre-
dicted to finish second in the conference, and
stands at 1-0-1 and 3-2-1 overall. The Wild-
cats hope to continue using their experience
against tough opponents to propel them to
success within the Southern Conference.

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

Information/Reservations |
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

