Women continue legacy of 25

years on Patterson Court

By KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Twenty-five years ago, girls from the first
four-year coeducational class at Davidson
founded Rusk, an all female eating-house, and
the scene on Patterson Court hasn’t been the
same since. Regardless of whether you consider
the addition of females to Davidson’s hallowed
halls a blessing or acurse, the fact remains: they
certainly have had an impact on the Court. In
honor of Rusk’s quarter-centennial (a incred-
ible feat, consider-

. founding, dissolving, and off-campus-moving,

construction of Vail Commons in the early
1980s required that some houses be physically
picked up and moved to new locations.

But in 1977, those fickle femmes began to
aspire for their own house in the manner of the
frats. Against fears that they would turn into a
sorority, 46 girls joined Rusk in its pilot year for
the slim fare of $270 per term for food. KA
donated old tables and the school contributed
money for other furnishings. Named for Dean
Rusk, illustrious Davidson graduate numero

uno, Rusk set the

ing the relatively standard for
short life expectancy women’s _ eating-
of so many other so- A ch r onol. 0g y of t h € houses being named
cial outlets) the , in honor of alumni.
Davidsonian is ex- v hous es down the hill By 1982, Rusk
women on the court. ing point and girls
A chronology of of a Ta ra nti no fi lm. founded Warner
the houses down the : Hall to add variety
hill reads like some- and shrink Rusk to a
thing out of a more manageable

Tarantino film, full of reversals, confusing en-
trances and exits, and completely non-linear. A
little known fact: Rusk was not the first non-
fraternity establishment on the court. On the
contrary, as soon as women began transferring
in, some houses were converted into coed eat-
ing houses similar to CoHo.

The influx of women wreaked havoc on the
fairly fixed court scene. ATO-and PiKA be-
came temporarily coed, FIJI and SigEp moved
off campus (partly in response to the new self-
selection policy) and a number of completely
new, coed houses sprang up. Fanny & Mable,
PAX, Random House, and “Etc” soon followed
the creatively named Emanon (“no name”
spelled backwards) House. Among all of this

size. Spencer, a short-lived house, existed from
1986 until 1992. Connor (91) and Turner (’99)
have proved more resilient thus far. As all-
women eating-houses became more popular
and populous, the coed houses of the past slipped
into obscurity, with the last of the original
crowd, PAX, dissolving in 1990.

The sorority snake reared its head once again
in 1997 when some raised the idea of adding
national sororities to Davidson, reportedly to
coexist with the frats and eating-houses. After
much warring of words, the sororities were held
at bay, while another one of those coeds, CoHo,
once again joined the court. In 2001, female
members of Patterson Court again voiced desire
for nationally affiliated sororities to no avail.

The Nancy K. and C. Shaw Smith Artist Series Presents

puritzans

Tickets: $10, $15, and $20 at the Union Ticket Office (x2135)
Monday - Friday 10 a.m. - 4 p.m.

‘g

By CuHarLes CUMMINS
Special Contributor

As the vans pulled into the Union parking lot
late last Monday afternoon, I thought back on
my three-day adventure to Capers Island over
fall break. Having made it through an infesta-
tion of mosquitoes, a two-hour thunder storm,
and a late night/early morning canoe ride home,
my fellow participants and I got the rest, relax-
ation, and adventure we were looking for and
new friends along the way.

Having not been on a DO trip since Odyssey
during the summer before freshman year, I
approached this trip with nervous anticipation.
I knew [had an incredible time on Odyssey and
made several good friends, but could lightning
strike twice? Indeed it did.

It became quickly evident that this diverse
group of Wildcats would work well together.
Starting at 7 a.m. Saturday morning, everyone,
showing their lack of sleep, worked together to
get the canoes and all the supplies together for
our four-hour trip to the boat docks just outside
of Charleston, S.C. The drive went quickly,
with a mix of good music and good stories.

Having bonded in the vans, we needed to use -

that connection to work together, for the success
of this trip would rely on teamwork. Having to
pack, unpack, and repack the canoes and sup-
plies time and time again, no one ever com-
plained. While our work together getting to
Capers was helpful, the teamwork was most
evident and necessary during our midnight ca-
noe trip home.

After enjoying the a full day of swimming,
walking the shore line, and gazing at the passing
wild dolphins, the leaders Adam Chalker and
Scott Reid gave us the bad news — with an 80
percent chance of thunderstorms for Monday

Samael Grire orate te
ing trip to Capers Island ©

and anear 100 percent chance of thunder storms
with 20-25 knot winds going against us on
Tuesday, we would be stuck for days if we
didn’t leave that night. Working together, we
gathered our personal stuff and began to take
down the campsite as darkness descended, soon
getting caught in a two-hour thunderstorm. For
all of those fortunate enough to go on DO trips,
you know how uncomfortable the lighting po-
sition is, especially for long periods of time. But
we kept each other’s will up, allowing us to
make it through the storm.

With a break in the storm, we quickly got
everything into the canoes and set off for the
dock. With lighting striking in the distance and
unsure when and if the next storm would hit, we
made the typically two and a half hour trip in
about an hour and fifty minutes. At around 1
a.m, we began the difficult process of unloading
the canoes and reloading the vans. Tiered from
our long night, we kept going, using a human
assembly line to speed up the process. By the
time we left the docks, it was nearly 3:30 on
Monday morning. Finally finding a campsite,
we parked the vans and fell asleep.

Getting up in the morning after a short sleep,
we made the journey home, getting back to
Davidson around 6 p.m. and finishing unload-
ing around 8 p.m. Separating to shower, we
returned fora late dinner, eating the food we still
had left. Finally turning in for the night around
12:30, we gathered the next afternoon for
s’mores, a viewing of Office Space, and the
glimpses at the first pictures from the trip. Since
that weekend, not a day does go by that I don’t
see a fellow member of the Capers Storm Crew.

So was it worth it? Absolutely. In such
rugged situations, I found exactly what I was
looking for, new friends and a new adventure,
and I still have the bug bites to prove it.

Cat Cards accepted!

Saturday, November 2, 2002 - 8:00 p.m.

- Duke Family Performance Hall

Phe “Vammuies,’ 40 college students from Duquesne University, perform each year at venues across the

United States and overseas, with the sole purpose of preserving and presenting traditional

astern Kuropean music and dance. Colorful, traditional costumes, authentic instruments, beautiful

voices, and amazing energy all combine to create a spectacular evening!

