a cola . the health advisors

RESPECT, OR LACK THEREOF, AT
DAVIDSON

Steve Clugston:

Get those hands out! ! How disconcerting is it

when you meet a new person, only to see them
walking around on the hall with their hand
down their pants? Why does it happen? I guess
testicular comfort would be the most popular
answer. But is it even worth questioning the
proportions of such hygienic undernourish-
ment? Such modern-day etiquette has been
praised for its uniqueness and originality in
groin-comforting hand-warming techniques,
but people seem to be enjoying this indirect
groin-hand interaction less and less...should it
be banned? Might as well walk down to the
showers naked...no, wait, that already hap-
pens!!

How about revealing to all, the secret khaki-
colored mushy-consistency of vegetables and
burger in your mouth while blasting out some
politically incorrect joke at the dinner table?
Very appetizing. But at least it harmonizes well
with the sweet trumpeting burps that surge after
every sip of soda that coagulates into your throat
for you to spit out onto the lush green lawns of
Davidson College, very artistic.

Noneed toconsider the fact that some profes-
sors find it rude to wear hats and caps during
class lectures even if there isn’t any sun inside
on that particular day, because he’s a buddy and
doesn’t deserve respect for his doctorate-level
degree he spent many years of his life obtaining.

Now, take all this behavior and apply it to life
after college, what an interesting effect that
would have. We constantly have tour groups
and prospective students visiting our presti-
gious campus. They are here to explore the high
academic caliber of Davidson College, but

6 We serve food until 2 Zam
Open 7 Days a Week!

Be. ook past such
is ever-impressive
- Social conduct?.

Jenn Greene:
Do you com-
_ Ment on every re-
mark a professor
says? Do you ask
so many questions
that the professor
has stopped call-
.ing on you? Do
your answers to questions ramble on so long
that the professor has begun to impose a time
limit as soon as you start to speak? Do you feel
compulsively urged to interrupt, interject, or
impose your opinions in every class that you
attend?

If you answered “yes” to these questions,
please heed: more than likely, your presence is
becoming an annoyance to your fellow class-
mates. While I’m all for asking intelligent
questions, asking questions just to “input” in the
class is obnoxious and, honestly, a waste of
time. Well-planned, logical, but most impor-
tantly, relevant comments and questions are
appreciated, and can definitely serve to further
discussion. Questions for clarification are per-
fectly okay as well.

However, asking a totally unrelated question
when the professor is.talking about a topic is
ridiculous. Iam paying a great deal of money to
learn the subject material for the class, not to
trace the wanderings and tangents of your mind.
If you have a question that really doesn’t pertain
to the class topic during lecture, please wait
until after class to address it. It is exceedingly
rude to take up lecture time with extraneous

questions, particularly when the professor has a

set amount of material he/she intends to cover.

You don’t have to speak all the time to sound
intelligent. A few well-placed comments here
and there are rather sufficient to show off your

ask about our US Stylists
- $20 cut & style -

spa packages
hair services
nail care
body treatments
skin core
gift certificates

Norman Crossing
Shopping Center

1-77, Exit 28 © Cornelius
704-895-0404

savvysalonanddoyspa.com
ONES OS= 38 Oy

2OB1GINIMAINIS TS
Surretsor

Oh, and one more thing. When @ fellow

Student asks the professor-a question, please let

the professor answer. Believe it or not, we have
very intelligent people teaching our classes, and
they can probably field questions without your

help. Afterall, that’s what they were hired todo.

Lauren Stutts:

It seems to me that quite a few people here
don’t have much respect for the halls and the
public areas. I often see Coke spilled carelessly
on the hall floors or papers strewn about in the
Union. Sorry to disappoint you, but there is no
cleaning fairy; someone has to clean it up, and
it shouldn’t be the staff. If you make a mess,
then clean it up. We all learned that lesson as a
child—you get out a toy, then you put it back
before you get out another toy, or it’s straight to
the time-out table.. We could all use that kind of
logic here. Also, if there has been a mess in the
hall or you find food wrappers left on a table,
then just be a good citizen and take a few
minutes out of your day and clean it up. If we
all just took the time to think about the repercus-

sions of our actions on others, then I think
Davidson’s halls and public areas would be alot
cleaner. If not, then perhaps we could banish
people to a time-out table in Chambers.

Felicia Browne: .

Itirks me to see the lack of bathroom etiquette
some students have. Regrettably, Ihave seen all
sorts of unthinkable items strewn about the
bathroom- items that have not been properly
disposed of, or washed after use. Not only is this
uncouth and unsanitary behavior discourteous
to one’s hallmates, it is also disrespectful to the
Physical Plant: staff who is left to clean up
messes that even six year olds wouldn’t dare
make. All I ask is that these offenders realize
that others are affected by their conduct, and
stop subjecting their hallmates to such revolting
behavior.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00° on
WALT 1610 AM: This week’s topic is “Diver-

sity”.

Overrated, from page 5

boy who befriends ET is too inconsistent and
annoying to watch. Thomas seems to express
too much emotion or too little throughout the
film. I never found this movie as magical as
others did, and I am thus adding this to my most
overrated films list. If you want a better movie
with kids and aliens, I recommend either Flight
of the Navigator or Explorers.

Fargo — When I first saw this movie, I ex-
pected to be blown away, especially after hear-
ing all the great reviews and critical acclaim the
film was receiving. Needless to say, I was very
disappointed. Centering around a murder mys-
tery, the film, set in Fargo, North Dakota, re-
volves around Jerry Lundegaard (William H.
Macy) and his attempted murder of his wife
with the help of bumbling criminals, played by
Steve Buscemi and and Steve Stormare. These
three must fend off the local female deputy,
played by Frances McDormand in her Oscar
winning role. While the film offers some hilari-
ous moments, many .as a result of the inept
criminals, and has fine individual performances,

the film never works well, always walking that
fine line between comedy and drama, never
deciding what it wants to be. If you wanta better
film about the imperfections of small . town
America, try American Beauty.

Goodfellas — Again, I’m awaiting the hate
mail for this one. Unlike so many of my friends,
I cannot understand the popularity behind Mar-
tin Scorcese’s gangster “masterpiece.” The film,
in the hands of so many accomplished actors,
just does not seem to work. The narrator of this
film, Henry Hill, is played by Ray Liotta. This
casting, in my opinion, hurts the film signifi-
cantly. Liotta seems too much like a pretty boy,
someone the mob wouldn’t allow among their
ranks. The highlight of this film is the over-the-
top performance of Joe Pesci, whose mouth,
temper, and trigger finger are going to get him
into trouble. That performance, along with the
acting job of Robert. DeNiro, one of the best
actors of recent memory, can’t save this sub par
gangster movie. For a better choice in gangster
movies, I recommend either Donnie Brasco,
staring Al Pacino, based on a true story, The
Godfather, or The Godfather Part IT.

three categories.

abroad.

research.

$2,000.

DEADLINE: November 15
to apply for
George L. Abernethy
Endowment Funds

Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following
1). Independent student research, either t in the US or

2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during
the academic year or the summer.

3) Collaborative research by students and faculty. The
student must have a clearly defined independent role in the

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to
projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

FYI: Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects
with grants up to $3,500; the average award was about

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice
President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116).

Completed application forms are due back in this office before
5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 15, 2002. The announcement
of awards will occur on or before January 15, 2003.

