Editorial

Administrators say the current pass/fail system allows

students to explore classes in unfamiliar disciplines with-
out risking a low grade. While there is merit in encourag-

ing students to explore different departments by removing

the pressure to preserve their
grade point averages, the sys-
tem fails when a student does
unexpectedly well in his or
her pass/fail class.

We have to decide six
weeks into the semester
whether to utilize the pass/
fail option. Many classes
don’t assign graded material
until close to or after the Feb.
25 deadline. It is oftentimes
impossible for students to
gauge how poorly, or how
well, they might perform. We
must decide, with very little information on which to base
our decision, whether a class might be difficult enough to
take pass/fail.

Once we’ve made the pass/fail decision, we cannot
revoke it. What happens, then, if we realize that we can do
well in the class? There is no way for our GPAs to benefit
from the high grade we may receive. Taking a class pass/
fail effectively removes our motivation to perform at our
full potential. . ,

While grades are not the sole objectives of education,
we rely on them for graduate school placements, job
opportunities and scholarship money. So shouldn’t we
benefit from every high grade we receive and from all of
our hard work that we put into classes?

We understand why a student cannot invoke the pass/
fail option after a poor final grade is revealed. But when
we perform unexpectedly well in the class, there is no
reason we shouldn’t be able to withdraw the pass/fail.

Allowing revocation would provide students a pass/fail
system that is completely beneficial to them. Since the
pass/fail option is available, we would continue to try new
courses without fear of poor grades. But since we could
uncover the final grade if we chose to, incentive would
, remain for us to excel.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Timothy Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh ... Gavin Weber
Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser
Photography Editors.
Erin Berry © Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Manager
_. Jeff Larrimore
Circulation Manager
Maggie Kozicharow

htt ://www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

YEAR, BUT YOU WANG To OMIT).
APTER THE ENRON SCANDAL ,
IT'S NICE To 4eE SOE

PERCONAL INTEGRITY RETURN
Te THE CRINNINAL ELEMENT,

WOL-BEQUITUR,, COW

AA. PO) UME FREES CYMOCALE

WIUN Cpop-SEQUTUT?. Con

Zz
z

Nothing wrong with
bumper stickers

In response to “What do patriotism and basketball have
in common? (Jan. 30, Letter to the Editor)”.

I usually read The Davidsonian’s perspectives page with
perfunctory interest, but Vic Lindsay’s ill-informed editorial
invites, nay, requires a sardonic reproach.

Mr. Lindsay decries the patriotic bumper stickers that
people have displayed in response
to Sept. 11 as a “money-making
scheme.” Instead of this insin-
cere, jingoistic display of pride,
he argues we should unite by
attending sundry athletic events.
Are people that proudly wear a
bumper sticker on their car insin-
cere simply because many others
do it? Would he rather they ex-
hibit no emotion at all? If any-
thing, I believe this will help “unite the country.” I for one feel
acommon bond when I pass cars on the interstate with “God
Bless the U.S.A.” stickers.on their bumpers.

Mr. Lindsay then proceeds to fire off a barrage of
unsubstantiated assertions. His most egregious and hack-

“neyed one condemns the Supreme Court as “misguided” in

ending the presidential election fiasco. If Mr. Lindsay had
taken the pains to research his illegitimate claim, he might
have read the recent article in The New York Times (not
exactly a bastion of conservatism), “EXAMINING THE
VOTE: THE OVERVIEW; Study of Disputed Florida Bal-
lots Finds Justices Did Not Cast the Deciding Vote”(Nov. 12,
page 1A). Is it our “patriotic” duty to fight for Al Gore even
though he irrefutably lost?

- The editorial then comes to the farcical and incoherent
conclusion that by attending various Davidson athletic events,
we will be able to unite the country. After reading this
spurious and rambling piece, I still have little idea of what
patriotism and basketball have in common.

Laurence Birdsey ‘04

Lecture can offer
much more than a
lesson on forgiveness

Hey all. I want to start off by apologizing for my article
beforehand. This piece promises not to be funny, disgusting
or offensive. In fact I am
going to do my best to be
somewhat insightful.

But first I will issue a guar-
antee. I promise there will be,
from this point on, no men-
tion of dancing bears, the word
redonkulous, gnomes or stat-
ues of Martin Luther King.
So let it be written...so let it |
be done. Now on with the
article.

Tim Cook ‘04

There’s a speaker next week
that, I believe, promises to be very interesting indeed. Dean
Greg Jones of Duke Divinity School is scheduled to lecture in
the 900 Room on Monday night on the subject of forgiveness.

But it’s not just forgiveness like I forgave my brother for
stealing my lunch money when I was six, or like when I
forgave my trigonometry teacher in high school for giving me
aD. This is big time forgiveness — forgiving people who have
left devastating scars on the lives of Americans all over the
country.

I want to do a couple of things in this article. First, I want
to convince as many people as possible to come see the
lecture. And second, I want to get us all thinking about the
topic before we go, or just have us think in case we can’t or
don’t want to go.

Forgiveness is one of the hardest things in the world to do.
And it is especially difficult to forgive when death is in-
volved. Well, it should be hard. If it was easy to forgive
someone for taking someone away from us forever, then I
guess it means we don’t really care or that we haven’ t thought
enough about it.

The Sept. 11 terrorists killed many Americans and devas-
tated a lot more. But holding a grudge is not the answer.
Seeking retribution is not the answer. Hate is not the answer.
These paths are the wrong ones because they do nothing to
treat the wounds inflicted on us and in us. They only open
‘more wounds by taking over our lives and letting rage eat
away at our souls.

Forgiveness, I feel, is the path to becoming a stronger
person. To forgive takes great effort and energy. It humbles
us and often makes us feel beaten — like we are too cowardly
to take a stand. But true forgiveness comes when we can
accept our transgressors no matter if they refuse to accept us.
It’s that peaceful feeling inside that reminds us that we will -
heal and that no earthly act has enough power to break us
completely. 7

I would love to comment on the whole debate over forget-
ting and forgiving turning the other cheek, but Dr. Jones is
planning on commenting on forgiveness being confused with
pacifism in his lecture so I will leave that to the professionals.

My other point about getting people to this lecture is that
forgiveness is an especially difficult thing for college stu-
dents to face. We are away from our homes. We are away
from the ones who brought us up. And this is the time in our
lives that we are most fragile. This is a time when something
like 9/11 can shatter our image of God, sense of order in the
universe, or whatever it is that we believe in. We are at a time
when we say, “How could you let this happen? Why didn’t
you stop this?”’ College is a time where we either find what
we’re looking for or lose what we have had.

Weare susceptible to rage and hate because our ideologies
might be weak and we are not sure where we stand. I know
this firsthand. First, your studies take you to the edge of your
faith. Then war or death push you over. I think that is the very
reason for us to:attend this lecture.

This is not some Christian plea. This is a spiritual one. Let
us not allow our fragile four years to leave us bitter and
engulfed in rage. Let us'seek solace in forgiveness. This is
no call for religion. This is a call for inner peace.

Hope to see you there.

Oh, yeah, thanks mom for the insight, hope you feel better.
