Brickhouse Tavern a solid addition to Davidson dining —

Depot replacement is im-
provement on its predecessor

By Linpy BALDWIN
’ Arts and Living Editor

I’ve got to admit that I wasn’t particularly ©

distressed when the Depot closed last year. As
an under-21, losing the only bar in town didn’t
“mean too much tome. I’donly eaten there once,
and been underwhelmed enough to stick with
the Soda Shop or Fuel Pizza when I needed a
bite to eat in Davidson.

I’m happy to report, therefore, that the new
Brickhouse Tavérn, now housed in the old
Depot building, is a significant
improvement over its prede-
cessor. I ate there on Friday,
Oct. 11 in the company of my
brave fellow experimenters
Erin Thompson ’04, Courtney
Tinnan ’04 and Annie Snider
°04. The restaurant was
packed, but we were seated promptly and served
our food within ten minutes of ordering it.

We all agreed that we liked the atmosphere
and décor. The clean, uncluttered, ‘““modern’”’
look is fairly generic, but it forms a neat contrast
with the battered brick walls. Overall
Brickhouse seems to be trying very hard to
cultivate a trendy atmosphere. Even the waiters
are dressed in all black.

The background music tends towards mel-
low pop, like Sarah McLachlan or Dave
Matthews. Happily it remains quiet enough for

normal conversation to go on (unlike, say, Fuel).
The group liked the fact that the restaurant could
serve as either a casual meal destination or a
good place to go in nicer clothes before a date or
a dance.

The menu is a combination of
typical American fare and more
exotic options. The appetizers on
the menu looked tasty, but at $4-
9 were too expensive to justify
ordering. I was very tempted to
ask for the Shrimp and Oak Wood Grilled Corn
Fritters, just to find out what they are. Those
with bigger appetites or deeper pockets can
choose from chili fries, calamari, crab cakes and
mini hot dogs on the appetizer menu.

The main menu is divided be-
tween salad, hamburgers, specials
and pizzas. The specials, mostly
high-end meat dishes like Filet
Mignon and Mahi Mahi, are eas-
ily the most expensive items on
the menu, ranging from $15-20.
Anyone feeling really decadent
can add on a side of lobster tails or grilled
scampi.

Annie, a vegetarian, found the non-meat op-
tions a bit lacking. There is a section devoted to
salad, but beyond that it’s either side items or
pizza, and not that many choices of pizza. It
wouldn’t hurt the Brickhouse management to
find something more original to offer
Davidson’s vegetarians.

The hamburgers on the menu are all + pound
monsters, for a reasonable $7 apiece. As a twist,
the Brickhouse Tavern serves their hamburgers

}

Spoon’s Kill the Moonlight:
infectious indie-rock minimalism

AnpDyY HaAuSsER
Staff Writer

There exists in the music business a number
of catchphrases or axioms that have become
elevated to the level of mantra through rampant
overuse. Many people say such phrases; few
listen to the messages contained within.

One such classic adage runs as follows: “Less
is more.” It is a phrase which comes in many
variations: “The notes you

the fact that ninety percent of so-called “quiet”
bands use their space to create a sense of seri-
ousness, of melodrama, of stately and dignified
Art-with-a-capital-A. Spoon is simply much
more confident, fun, and, well, rock and roll
than your typical indie/post-rock band. They’re
not particularly pretentious, for one: they’ re just
a stripped down rock band, artistic but not artsy.
Or maybe more appropriate would be a
stripped down funk-rock band. Not funk-rock
in the Red Hot Chili Pep-

don’t play are just as impor-
tant as the ones you do,”
“Silence is as mucha part of
the music as the sound,” or
“The space between the
notes is just as important as
the notes themselves.”

These phrases, while un-
deniably true, are often very
difficult for musicians to
accept in a world where,
nine times out of ten, more
is more, or at least seems
that way. Harpsichord! Zither! Bouzouki! In
a world of so much possibility, surely it would
be a crime not to take advantage of it?

The answer is not as simple as one would
expect. Sometimes yes, sometimes no. There
is certainly a place for all those teenage-sym-
phonies-to-God Brian Wilson was so fond of.
The hitch is, they have to be executed well. In
the right hands, overproduction can be exhila-
rating; in the wrong hands, it can be nauseating.
Excruciating. Unbearable.

If minimalism has less chance of being ob-
noxious, it’s nonetheless an even trickier de-
mon. Lots of bands claim it, few achieve it
effectively. That’s part of what makes Spoon
such an interesting anomaly, particularly on
their latest album Kill the Moonlight. They’re
minimalists in the truest sense of the word: there
is a palpable sense of space throughout the

* album..

But what makes them even more unusual is

SPOOR / KILL. The MOONLIGHT

pers sense, more in the
Prince sense. The entire
album is very rhythm-ori-
ented (even when that
rhythm is just two drum-
sticks banged together, as
on “Paper Tiger”) with just
simple keyboard, piano or
guitar backgrounds.

With such a sparse aes-
thetic, the songs have noth-
ing to hide behind; ifthey’re
not all killer, the album’s
not going to work. Luckily, Britt Daniel is a fine
songwriter, and his songs are catchy, interest-
ing, and fully capable of holding the listener’s
attention for the duration of the album.

Just listen to “Stay Don’t Go,” probably my ~

choice for best song on the album, for evidence
of the band’s talent. It starts off with one of
those human-beatbox kind of things, adds some
simple guitar, some simple keyboard washes,
and a great (but simple) falsetto vocal from
Daniel. There’s nothing particularly revolu-
tionary going on here; Spoon just takes these
common elements and turns them into a relent-
lessly catchy song.

If I had to pick two words to describe this
album, that’s what they’d be: “relentlessly
catchy.” Great melodies, cool grooves, songs
that sound like an indie rock Stevie
Wonder...what more can you'ask for? Other
than a cooler band name, of course, but with
Spoon, that’s a given.

in pitas, not buns. I ordered the American
Burger (i.e. a cheeseburger). Although my
request to hold the mayo went unheeded, I’d
definitely order a burger there again. The side
of fries was tasty, but not up to the standard set
by the Soda Shop.

Both Annie and Erin chose one of
the pizzas, which were also reason-
ably priced from $7-10. Annie, the
vegetarian, went for the plain cheese,
and said the ratios of sauce, crust and
cheese were just about perfect. Erin picked a
veggie pizza. She said she would’ ve liked it
better without the corn, but on the whole en-
joyed it and noted that all of the vegetables on
the pizza seemed very fresh. She also took
home some leftovers and reported that the pizza
refrigerated well and made a good next-day
snack. Both remarked that the thin layer of
paper under the pizza made it difficult to cut a

By CHARLES CUMMINS
Staff Writer

As I sat awaiting the start of Red Dragon, |
had mixed expectations for the film. Having
seen Michael Mann’s Manhunter, the original
adaptation of Thomas Harris’s novel Red
Dragon, I knew not only the basic plot of the
film I was about to see, but many of the details
of the cat and mouse investigation that estab-
lishes the core of the film. So what more could
I get from Red Dragon that I didn’t already
know? .

A lot, surprisingly. Red Dragon expands an
improves upon the story first told in Manhunter
and gives even those familiar with the original
movie a great deal to enjoy in this well-done
psychological thriller.

Red Dragon obviously contains the same
basic plot line as Manhunter, depicting the
desperate attempt by retired FBI detective Will
Graham to capture Francis “the Tooth Fairy/
Red Dragon” Dolarhyde, a serial killer who
carefully selects a family of victims, before he
strikes again. However, Red Dragon and
Manhunter vary in which character is chosen to
be the focal point of each film.

Manhunter remains the story of Will Graham
and his obsessive search for a killer. Red
Dragon, however, establishes itself as
Dolarhyde’s film, developing his character, the
motivations for his killings, and the inner battle
he faces in an attempt to stop his murderous
ways.

With the focus away from Graham, much of
the movie’s success is left to the performance of
Ralph Fiennes as the Red Dragon. Initially, I
was unsure if such a refined British actor like
Fiennes could depict a deformed killer. Yet he
accomplishes such a task, making this social
outcast killer both deplorable and sympathetic
at the same time. This human side to a vicious
killer is something that Manhunter never estab-
lishes well. ; 2

The rest of the all-star cast does a fine sup-
porting job in their roles. Harvey Kietel, Philip
Seymour Hoffman, and Mary Louise Parker all
offer good performances: in their respective
roles. Ellen Burstyn, of horror classic The Exor-

bite free without adding a bit of paper to the
fork.

Courtney found her Asian salad acceptable,
not great. The “Asian
vinaigrette” dressing
provided was overly
oily, but the ingredients
were fresh and the
waiter readily provided
a replacement ranch
when Courtney rejected
the vinaigrette. Also,
the price of the salad
was fairly steep.considering it didn’t come with
meat or any other form of protein.

Naturally, we topped off the meal with des-
sert, opting for apple pie and achocolate mousse
cake. Both sold for $4.95 and were excellent.

see Brickhouse, page 6

Red Dragon another feast of fear

cist, provides the creepy voice of Dolarhyde’s
grandmother, returning to the horror genre that
made her famous. Emily Watson, with her doll-
like expressions and movements, might be the
best casting job as Reba, Dolarhyde’s blind love
interest. And Anthony Hopkins just is Hannibal
Lector in all his intellectual madness.

The only unsatisfying casting job was in the
role of Will Graham. Edward Norton does not
look the part of an experienced criminal inves-
tigator, but rather a rookie to the force. Norton
is better cast as evil or demented characters and
should stick to films like American History X or
Fight Club. ; ,

As in Manhunter, Hannibal Lector and Sir
Anthony Hopkins are limited to a minor role in
the film, assisting the desperate FBI agent.
Hopkins again skillfully crafts this cannibalistic
killer whose power is not in brute strength so
much as his ability to invade your mind.

While the movie and the investigation move
quickly, never getting slowed down in details,
the ending is Red:Dragon’s gredtést strength.
Manhunter’s unsatisfying simplified ending al-
ways weakened the entire film, a problem fixed
in Red Dragon. Without giving anything away,
the ending pits Graham and the Red Dragon in
a climatic battle with Graham’s family in the
balance.

In the final chapter of the Hannibal Lector/
Anthony Hopkins trilogy, director Brett Ratner
(Rush Hour 2) and screenwriter Ted Tally, who
also wrote the Oscar winning script for Silence
of the Lambs, pay homages to Silence that fans
are sure to catch. Frankie Faison returns for the
third time as Nurse Barney, Anthony Heald
returns to the role of the sleazy Dr. Chilton, and
the final sequence concludes with the arrival of
a female FBI agent haunted by the screaming of
the lambs.

With great casting, great writing, and An-
thony Hopkins, Red Dragon successfully com-
pletes Hannibal Lector’s reign of terror at the
movies. While Hannibal might remain locked
up behind that plexiglass cell or in our personal
movie collection, audiences will never be able
to look at fava beans or a nice Chianti without
feeling a little shiver down their backs, thanks to .
Hannibal “the Cannibal” Lector.
