Vo.LuME 94, NUMBER 7

photo by Eron Ear Thiele

| Students, including Kate Fiedler ‘03 and Emily Metzloff ‘03, at-
tended Monday’s vigil for peace on the Town Green.

Peace vigil draws crowd,
sets tone for war debates

By Ros HE prick
Staff Writer

. It is a cold night on the Davidson Town
Green. The grass is still wet from a recent rain,
and the dark clouds that brought the weather
lighten and drift silently away. This blanket of
clouds prevents most starlight from illuminat-
ing the town, and the moon is reduced to a faint
blur in the sky.

‘A single candle is lit. The flame is passed
from one wick to another, and then to another,
until a warming orange glow enshrouds the
silent plot of grass. With this glow, the crowd

that has assembled here on this cold October ~

night becomes visible.

This group of nearly 80 has gathered tonight
in vigil to reflect and to pray for peace as the
threat of violent conflict between the United
States and Iraq becomes more and more real.
Concerned citizens of the Davidson commu-
nity have united to explore passive alternatives
to the United States government’s promise of
war.

Marcia Webster, Director of the Davidson
Housing Coalition, became concerned when
she noticed overwhelming support for the war
on television. In response, she collaborated
with Kathy Beach-Verhey, the Associate Pas-
tor of Davidson College Presbyterian Church,
to create this forum for meditation and discus-
‘sion. :

The gathering, which drew not only students
but also college faculty and townspeople as
well, featured several speakers who read pas-
sages supporting the pacifist cause. These
speakers included Davidson professor Malcolm

Campbell, Kendall Stewart “03, Catholic Chap-
lain Barb Bagnall, Presbyterian Chaplain Rob
Spach, and other members of the Davidson
community.

But are vigils such as this one effective ways
of spreading the word of nonviolence to our
college? Is the spirit of pacifism alive in the
minds and hearts of the student body? Many
would say that it is not, due to the rather conser-
vative inclinations of our population. The fact

see Vigil, page 3

Amherst player sues College,
McKillop over recruiting

Former recruit claims
head coach reneged on

2001 scholarship offer

By Matt GaArFIELD
Managing Editor

A former men’s basketball recruit claims
Davidson head coach Bob McKillop lied to him
abouta scholarship offer—truining his dream of
playing at the Division I level and costing him
thousands in tuition money—in a lawsuit filed
last month in New Jersey.

John Bedford, a 6-3 freshman guard cur-
rently enrolled at Amherst College in Amherst,
Mass., accuses the coach of fraud and breach of
contract—and seeks compensation for a schol-
arship he once thought was his.

According to Bedford’s attorney, the NCAA
is investigating the matter. Davidson and
NCAA officials would not confirm that.

McKillop and College President Bobby Vagt
declined to comment on the allegations, issuing
only a written statement on behalf of the school.

“We can confirm that the College and Coach

‘ McKillop have been sued in New Jersey by a

young man who was notadmitted to Davidson,”
it said. “From what we can tell, his lawyer
seems most interested in publicizing the law-
suit. Our efforts will be confined to dealing
with the issues in court.”

The suit filed in Bergen County Superior
Court alleges that McKillop and his assistant
coaches aggressively recruited Bedford begin-
ning in his sophomore year of high school in
1998, ultimately promising him ina letter a full
four-year basketball scholarship worth
$125,000, which Bedford and his parents ver-
bally accepted.

They claim there was no mention of the offer
being contingent on acceptance by the admis-
sions office, citing an excerpt from one of
McKillop’s letters.

“Whether it is his performance on the court,
his credentials in the classroom or just the way

he carries himself, John appears to have a °

consistent quest for excellence,” wrote the
coach. “In my judgment, he has the complete

Senior senator questions
Libertas funding requests

. AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

On Thursday, Oct. 10, SGA met as usual to
discuss a variety of issues affecting students.
However, the meeting quickly turned into an
animated discussion over the allocation of ATC
funds to Libertas, one of the college’s student-
run publications.

The Activities Tax Council (ATC) is in
charge of allocating a certain percentage of
student tuition to student organizations each
semester. ;

Before money can be distributed to these
organizations, the budget must be approved by
SGA. The ATC proposed a budget to SGA
during the Oct. 3 meeting, but the vote was
delayed due to senators’ concerns over the cost
of a computer that Libertas requested.

ATC Vice-Chair Amanda Mildner ’03 re-
turned to the SGA body on Oct. 10 to explain
that it is the school’s policy that all computers
for student organizations be bought through
ITS. Although the policy forces organizations
to pay higher than normal costs for computers,
the benefits include speedy repairs on the ma-
chines and insurance by the school.

While most senators expressed concern over
the cost of the machine, SGA Senator and
Senior Class President Kevin Epps ’03 said that
he did not feel that Libertas should get a new
computer at all. He explained his position by
saying, among other things, that Libertas does
not advertise and “it’s liberal and no one reads
it.”

Mildner and several senators quickly rebut-

see Libertas, page 3

package. ..I-want to reaffirm my own personal
commitment. I’ve told John that he has a full
scholarship to Davidson College, and now I
have put it in writing.”

Bedford claims McKillop revoked the offer
in October 2001 of his senior year, asserting that
his application wasn’t sufficient for admission
into the school.

Instead, Bedford alleges, the coach had found
other players he liked better. And by that time,
it was too late for Bedford to accept a scholar-
ship to play at another school.

Bedford received an acceptance letter from
Amherst, a Division III school that does not
offer basketball scholarships, in April 2002—
one month before being officially turned down
by the Davidson admissions office. He enrolled
at Amherst this fall, and on Sept. 26, Bedford
and his family filed the suit.

“This is a matter of potential national impor-
tance,” said Sean Callagy, the Montvale, N.J.,
attorney who represents Bedford and his par-
ents, John and Rita Driscoll. “One of the goals
of my client is that this won’t happen to other
kids...to make sure students aren’t treated in a
similar manner to the way John was treated.”

The attorney said it was puzzting that
Bedford’s credentials were good enough for
acceptance into Amherst, ranked by U.S. News
& World Report as the nation’s top liberal arts
college, but not Davidson, which this year is
ninth in the rankings.

“We intend to prove that was a pretext for the
real reason, which was that the coach found a
different player,” said Callagy. “We're very
interested in comparing John’s grades to those
on the basketball team.”

Bedford was an honor-roll student at Bergen
Catholic High, then at Lawrenceville Prep, a
private boarding school to which he transferred
during his junior year.

see Lawsuit, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

photo by Chris Keane, Special Contributor
Senior Jim Carney (left) had 1.5
sacks at Valparaiso on Saturday.
See story on page 12.
News
Women celebrate 25 years on
Patterson Court. Stories on pages 2,4

1-4

Arts & Living 5-6
Brickhouse Tavern reviewed. Story
on page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
The UN is indispensible. Story on
page 8.

Sports 9-12
Football beats Valparaiso, 49-32.
Story on page 12. —

