Education reform was among the most
debated issues in the 2000 presidential elec-
tion. Central to the debate was the issue of
school vouchers, which would give stipends
to parents so they could afford to send their
children to private schools.

Last week, the
Supreme Court
heard arguments in
a case involving a
voucher system in
Cleveland in which
nearly all of the
vouchers were
used to pay for re-
ligious schools.

aa ; The reason this par-
David Crowe ‘05 ticular case is so
important is because it not only raises issues
about vouchers, but also brings in the possi-
bility of violations between the wall of sepa-
ration between Church and State.

The Cleveland voucher program gives up
to $2,250 to parents of certain public schools.
The problem with this system is that every
private school in the area charges tuition that
is significantly more than the stipend. Thus,
virtually all (99 percent) of the vouchers have
been used to send children to religious schools
that charge a lower tuition.

This system clearly violates the Founding
Fathers’ vision of a government that is com-
pletely separate from any religion. These
vouchers funnel taxpayer money into reli-
gious organizations and pay for schools to
teach children religious beliefs. Government
funding has no business being used for this
purpose.

Many have argued that voucher programs
do not violate the separation of Church and

Soimeitution: “a beliefs.

State because it is a parent’s choice whether
or not to send their children to a religious
school. In the case of Mitchell v. Helms
(2000), the Supreme Court said that funding
religious schools is permitted, provided that
the funding is a “true private-choice program
such that any money indirectly flowing to
religious schools does so only as the result of
the genuinely independent and private choices
of aid recipients.”

The Cleveland voucher program, and many
others like it, violate this statute because the
amount of money allowed by the vouchers is
only enough to pay for religious schools.
Therefore, parents’ choices are restricted to
either paying additional money out of their
own pockets for a private school, which few
voucher recipients can afford, or sending
their children to a religious school.

This violation of the establishment clause
highlights just one of many problems created
by voucher programs. All voucher programs,
regardless of any constitutional problems, go
against the very notion that every child is
entitled to a public education. The right to a
public education is a central tenet of our
nation, and the notion that we can ignore the
problems of our public schools by sénding
children to private institutions violates this
principle. Instead of trying to mend our fail-
ing system, vouchers simply allow us to turn
a blind eye to the problem.

Rather than spending money on vouchers,
we should be funneling more money toward
improving public schools. While vouchers
might supply a quick fix, they are not a long-
term solution to our education problems. Only
with a strong public education system can we
continue to maintain our position as a world
leader in education and free thinking.

ar illite

Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein

Are we fighting terrorism at
the cost of human rights?

JORDAN GRATRIX
Special Contributor

Recent debates over the future of the “War
on Terrorism” have become heated and po-
larized in regards to the types of action
America should take in the coming months.
Hard-liners are calling for the removal of
Iraqi dictator Saddam Hussein and active
pursuit of anti-American terrorism wherever
it is found in the world.

Doves however, are calling for a more
global approach to the issue, pointing out that
some of our new “friends” in the war against
terrorism are consistent violators of human
rights, and are simply searching for cash and
an injection of legitimacy derived from Ameri-
can support.

For example, arecent article in The Econo-
mist points out that Algeria recently provided
the United States with alist containing around
350 names of suspected terrorists, for which
the U.S. government has supposedly eased
the restrictions on arms sales to Algeria— in
spite of reports of around 10,000 people hav-
ing disappeared during Algeria’s civil war.

It is in the face of such facts that Americans
have to take a firm look at their own views.
Should it be more important to the U.S.

Vandals must

A group of students recently decided to
provide the campus a service by vandalizing
the houses of SigEp; CoHo, and Rusk. Per-
sonally, I am
glad they took
out some of the
campus’ anger

never met a
group of indi-
viduals who de-

tacked more
than them.

If you didnt
guess, that was
sarcasm. I
guess I am still
a little bitter since my fraternity, SigEp, was
attacked. In all honesty, I may be overreact-
ing a bit. No one was actually injured in the
vandalism, and some of the stolen items have
been returned. But then again, in the words of

Mike Galdo ‘04

The Davidsonian, my pool table was covered

in human feces.

On the bright side, it appears that those
responsible for the broken windows, destroyed
food and stolen items have turned themselves

at CoHo. Ihave ©

served to be at-

government to actively track down those
terrorists who are genuinely threatening
American citizens, or is it more important to
have a global perspective that considers the
plight of people around the world, giving
them no less consideration than citizens of
the U.S.?

. Unfortunately, such questions ; are difficult
to answer, so most people just turn to criticiz-
ing the current administration. It is far too
easy to point to ‘the case of Algeria and say
that President Bush has supported a corrupt
regime than it is to really and truthfully con-
sider whether America’s government needs
to take the necessary steps to ensure the safety
of Americans, even if that means cognizantly
dealing with unsavory regimes.

Answers to these questions are not easy to
produce, so in the human tradition, criticism
is always the primary reaction to disturbing
and complex questions like this war on terror-
ism. Republicans and Democrats alike are
responsible for taking the easy way out. The
real question then, is wondering whether play-
ing this blame-game with people of the op-
posing political views is actually doing any-
thing to keep Americans safe.

Shouldn’t that be, after all, the primary
concern of our government?

learn a lesson

in. I have not heard exactly what disciplinary
action will be taken, but I hope it doesn’t
simply involve paying for what they de-
stroyed, stole, or, well, pooped on. If that’s
the case, then they will never learn that ac-
tions have consequences. Their punishment
will amount to nothing more than another bill
they send home to their parents.

I am not advocating permanent expulsion
for these students. Everyone makes mistakes.
However, one of the underlying tenants of the
Honor Code is that an individual must respect
another person and his or her property. One of
my favorite aspects of Davidson is that as
much we exercise our right to attack each
other’s ideas, we have all relinquished the
right to attack each other.

I can laugh about poop on a pool table, but
not about the malice it took to ravage those
three houses on Patterson Court. My opinion
may be tainted since the actions were directed
against my brothers and I. Nevertheless, one
can’t help but think that the Davidson com-
munity as a whole, regardless of what house
you are in, should do whatever is possible to

ensure that such a vicious deed never happens
again.

