Men’.

By Matr GarrFiELD
Managing Editor

The rain washed away Davidson’s hopes for a men’s soccer
Southern Conference championship over the weekend in
Charleston.

It may have also robbed the Wildcats of an invitation to the
NCAA Tournament.

With parts of the playing field ‘inca s water and a back-up
facility already ruined by rain showers, conference officials
canceled the tournament halfway through—awarding the
SoCon’s automatic bid to top-seeded Furman and sending
Davidson home two wins short of the title.

On Monday, the Wildcats’ season ended when the NCAA
Selection Committee declined to give them a bid to the 48-
team tournament.

It was a bitter ending to an otherwise memorable season that
included victories over North Carolina and South Carolina,
both ranked No. 2 at the time, and a tie with then-No. 8
Clemson.

The Wildcats, seeded No. 3 in the tournament, defeated

Georgia Southern 1-0 in the first round, and ry: on the field
warming up for the Saturday semifinal against VMI when the
. decision was made to halt play.

A win over VMI would have put Davidson into Sunday’s
final against No. 1 Furman, which beat UNC Greensboro in its
semifinal game.

“Thecancellation... was extremely disheartening and abrupt,”
said head coach Matt Spear. “The team had prepared all season
for this event, and we believed we were in a perfect position to
grab the title.

, Tournaments are postponed and cancelled all over the coun-
try at the youth and high school level, but when so much is at
stake, you just can’t expect it to happen in this situation.”

Senior Associate Commissioner Geoff Cabe said two cor-
ners of the Patriots Point field were submerged in water by
Saturday afternoon, making conditions too dangerous to con-
tinue.

“The field had deteriorated to the point where teams weren’t
playing soccer anymore. It was becoming unsafe for the play-
ers,” he said. “We continue not to feel very good about it... We
just felt at that point we had no alternative.”

The Wildcats played Georgia Southern on Friday at a ahigh

Devil of an opener: Freshmen
will take center stage in Cameron

By Matr GarFIELD
Managing Editor

The seasoned veterans who led them.to the NCAA Tourna-
ment last year are gone. A talented group of freshmen with
great promise but little experience will take their places and try
to defend the conference title.

That’s Davidson, right? Yes, but it’s also the Wildcats’
opponent in Monday’s season opener, the No. 6 Duke Blue
Devils. The two teams find themselves in similar predica-
ments entering the 7 p.m. meeting in Cameron Indoor Sta-
dium.

Three Wildcat freshmen will make their college debuts in
basketball’s most hostile environment when the Wildcats
travel to Cameron Indoor Stadium for a7 p.m. game televised
on espn2.

Forward Jan Johnson and guards Brendan Winters and Matt
McKillop will each get heavy minutes against the Blue Devils.

Seniors Wayne Bernard, Peter Anderer and Michel
Lusakueno will lead the charge, but the freshmen will have to
contribute if the Wildcats are to stay afloat.

“Ideally, you want to play a lot of young guys when they’ re
more experienced,” he said. “(But) we don’t have a lot of
control. It’s really the only time we could play.”

Fortunately for Davidson, the Blue Devils are in much the

‘ same position.

Gone are All-American starters Jason Williams, Mike
Dunleavy and Carlos Boozer froma team that reached the Elite
Eight last season.

Replacing them is the most heralded freshman class in
college basketball, highlighted by All-Americans Shavlik
Randolph, Shelden Williams and J.J. Redick. And point guard
Chris Duhon returns for his third season to orchestrate the Blue
Devils’ attack.

“There’s atremendous level of talent,” said Matheny. “They
still have at least the leadership they had last year in Duhon. He
was their leader, and he’s back.”

The key to handling the Blue Devils, said Matheny, is
avoiding costly turnovers against their aggressive, ball-hawk-

Davidson vs. No. 6 Duke

Monday, 7 p.m.
espn2 7
Cameron Indoor Stadium _

The History: This is the 98th meeting between the
two schools, dating back to the 1908-09 season. Duke
holds an 80-17 advantage, including 18 s Paightwins,
with fhe last Wildcats’ victory coming in 7.

Scouting the Blue Devils: Duke topped EA Sports
102-74 last Thursday in its only wef sla das ofthe
season. :

Coach K leftthe game at halftime after] jumping off the
bench and injuring his hip flexor muscle. He should
return for Saturday's game against Army.

Point guard Chris Duhon sprained his left wrist and
sat out of practice on Tuesday, but is also expected to
be ready for Saturday's home game against Army.

_ Duke was led by freshman Shavlik Randolph, who
scored 18 tag Sia Daniel Ewing. added 16. S

ing defense, one that relies on converting giveaways into easy
fast-break points.

This year’s Davidson team, led by an athletic point guard in
Bernard and a multi-dimensional supporting cast that can
dribble the ball, is well equipped to handle that type of style, he
said.

“T think we handle the ball better than we have in the past. We
can be a lot more versatile. If you can handle their pressure,
you’ ve gota better chance than teams that will turn it over 30
times a game,” Matheny said.

Playing this game as a season opener has also given the
Wildcats extra tinfe to prepare.

“We can put them through three or four days of simulating
that type of pressure, as best we can,” said Matheny.

S soccer left i in the rain by N CAA Tournament

school field on nearby Daniel Island, SC, in an attempt to
“save” Patriots Point for the final rounds, said Cabe. But by
Saturday, both fields had become unplayable.

There are no indoor facilities in the area, and -because
tournament pairings were announced Sunday, there was no
time to postpone the remaining matches until the skies cleared,
‘he added.

“The teams were obviously disappointed,” he said. “But
from the reaction we got from the ciara they understood.
We were as disappointed as anyone.”

Seniors Soren Johnson, Hussein Nasreddin and Joel Sadler
watched their careers end on Monday afternoon when the
tournament bids were announced on ESPN News.

Coastal Carolina, which received one of the last at-large bids
after being upset by Winthrop in the Big South Conference
final, may have taken Davidson’s spot in the field.

“There are always going to be arguments on why one team
got in and not another, but at this point we must move on,” said
Spear.

“It’s been a great season. We celebrate our three seniors,
who have led us to three straight winning seasons, and we look
forward to a bright future.”

Pe Les

weenie

Matt Whited
Senior Michel Lusakueno launches a

jumpshot on Saturday against Vasda USA.

‘Cats handle Vasda in exhibition

Junior Jouni Eho led eight Wildcats in double figures with
18 points as Davidson, in its lone exhibition game of the
season, posted a 113-76 victory over the Vasda USA Gold
Team.

The Wildcats played the game without preseason all-
conference selection Wayne Bernard, who sat the game out
with an injury as a precaution. Bernard is expected to be ready
for Monday’s opener at Duke.

Junior Terrell Ivory didn’t let Davidson miss a beat, playing
30 minutes at the point while posting a double-double with 10
points and 12 assists, nine of which came in the first half.

--Sports Information

The Davidsonian

er of the Week |

Henry Blue ‘oé

Wrestling
Hometown: Butler, Maryland

Major: Undecided

leading

an impressive showing by the Davidson squad.

Only a freshman, Blue is already showcasing his talent on
the mat this season. In last weekend’s UNC Pembroke
Classic, Blue placed 2nd in the 133-pound wieght class,

THE WEEK AHEAD

Wrestling at UNC Pembroke

Women’s Basketball at North Carolina

Volleyball hosts Southern Conf
Volleyball vs. Appalachian State

Men's Basketball at Duke

Women's Basketball at Elon

Men’s Basketball at Navy

woeccenenenneenene! Thursday------------------

7:30 p.m.
wane eeeeeeeenee Friday-----------------

7:00 p.m.

Tournament (through Sunday)

7:30 p.m.

7:00 p.m.
sesceeecenee ---Tuesday---------------

6:00 p.m.

di ve
7:30 p.m.
