Staff Editorial

It’s a nightmare scenario scary enough to make you shudder.
But in these uncertain times, it’s also a reality that we are forced
to confront: the threat of a radiological disaster, either by
malfunction or a terrorist attack.

Many students probably don’t
know it, but our campus is located
a little more than four miles from
the McGuire Nuclear Power Plant,
one of 10 such facilities in the
Carolinas.

Officials have long worried about a radiation leak at the plant,
but since 9/11, they’re taking the threat more seriously than ever.

That’s why everyone living within 10 miles of McGuire—and —

all nuclear facilities across North Carolina—will ina few weeks
have the option of acquiring potassium iodide pills that could
save lives if a leak ever occurred.

And now, the Davidson administration needs to step up and do
a better job of educating students about the situation.

The Emergency Planning Committee, comprised of a handful
of the school’s highest-ranking officials, meets two to three times
amonth todiscuss how to handle tornadoes and hurricanes— and
of course, the threats posed by the nearby nuclear facility.

But the committee hasn’t done enough to inform students
about the threats, and what to do if the worst happened.

Thankfully, the chance of a radiation leak seems very small.
And spending a lot of time worrying about it won’t be helpful.

But educating students about the basic precautions to take in
the event of a catastrophe is the prudent thing to do.

Include it in a PE program. Spend a few minutes discussing it
during freshmen orientation. Talk about it in courses on biology
and terrorism.

mp You'Re
Ay GOING Te
. WAR

Attn. Freshmen:
-Frats cause artifi-

The question facing the school right now is whether to advise.

students to go get the pills on Oct. 19 and 22 at North Mecklenburg
High, our area’s distribution point.

Sending out some kind of doomsday-scenario message could
unnecessarily frighten some students, but ignoring the threat is
far more dangerous.

The decision ultimately should be left up to us as individuals,
but why not have some professors offer us insights on the
radiation threat and all the relevant aspects of the issue?

The infamous “Davidson bubble” is said to shelter us from the
perils of the outside world, but it would be useless against a
radiological disaster.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin. Eagan ~ Matt Garfield
~~ News Editors
Emily Drew Caroline Hausér
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
‘Richard Connolly Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele. . Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers —
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
- Laura Filosa
Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

cial relationships

During their first semester at Davidson, freshmen students are
bombarded with many pressures.

Establishing a comfortable social niche is among the most
important of those. It can be a daunting task, especially for
students who do not know anyone.

The pressure to find a circle of friends, however, is often an
enjoyable experience that becomes an immediate priority. This
is perfectly normal.

Whatis also perfectly normal is the pressure to immediately fit
into a group of surrounding peers by sacrificing your own
individuality and personality. Itis as if a “collegiate” mindset sets

. in, one of freedom, fun, and, for many, acomplete lack of thought
whatsoever.

The Patterson Court fraternities use this vulnerability to lure
new freshmen into joining their houses.

I have no problem with fraternities, nor do I have a problem
with the-people in them; I have acquaintances that are involved
with various houses. The houses, however, must maintain a
certain number of members. As
a result, most are looking for
absolutely anyone to be a
“brother,” or a body to fill a slot.
There is nothing like artificial
camaraderie.

This often results in insincer-
ity from brothers who use cute
and clever abbreviated Greek
letters to sway amember of their
target audience, the freshman class. Sometimes, they accept
positions as hall counselors merely to find new recruits.

Representatives from these fraternities send “personal” invi-
tations to most every freshman, asking him to “come down to the
house tonight.” Other cookie-cutter frat boys take the initiative
to do so in person. Either way, the fraternity member loses
interest when the freshman loses interest in joining.

Why should freshman be rushed into joining a house of people
that they do not even know? Is pledging merely about a need to

fit in, to be normal? Are students too worried about what other —

people will think?

Some students will inevitably become part of these houses.
next semester. Does this mean that there will be more copies of
the imitation frat boys? Will freshmen pay for a supply of alcohol
and superficial friendship?

The pressure to join a house works like a vacuum, sucking in
more faceless members into an institution of numbers.

The opportunity to “pledge” to a fraternity is not special; it is
synonymous with pledging oneself to peer pressure.

Joe Taylor ‘06

Inresponse to “Why must we display our acts of charity for all
to see?” (Letter to the Editor, Oct. 2).

The Davidson chapter of Habitat for Humanity has nothing to
do with guilt, the media or any false sense of pride, as Joe Taylor
suggests.

First, the Davidson Habitat House is completely student-run.
The administration does nothing to obtain “any [media] recog-
nition for its commitment to helping the less fortunate.” The

. Students do it all, organizing the hammerheads, t-shirts and all

other fundraisers.

Second, the hammerhead sale is indeed a fundraiser. Its
purpose is to raise some money to chip away at the $50,000+
needed to build the house. To sarcastically see the hanging of
hammerhead sheets as a “triumphant announcement that the
person in that room actually did a good deed” is, in fact,

“cynical.”

The real motivation behind the t-shirts (“Wildcat Habitat
House” written on the front) and hammerheads is to unite the
school. This is our house. We will fund it. We will build it, and
we need to be proud of it. By hanging your sign, you are merely
saying, “I’m a part of the Davidson family. I have helped build
our house.”

As a small school, people often question our spirit. Here is a
way to express it, to show that we can all come together in a
common, worthwhile cause.

The great benefit of the Habitat program is that on the way to
helping others, we can help ourselves. Let Habitat bring us
together. Don’t merely put your $5 on the table. Pick up the
hammerhead, and proudly hang it in your.window. It’s wéll
worth the window-space.

My high school, a small school like Davidson, joined ahandful
of other local schools to build a Habitat House, and from now on,
I can drive by that house, and say, “We built that house. I was a
part of something special.”

We must all do our part, and the Davidson Habitat chapter
wants student to see their participation. What would be better
than a cool, fall afternoon where the leaves are changing colors
to their yellows and oranges and reds, and-to complement them,
all the dorm windows are covered with yellow and red habitat
hammers?

I know my roommate and I have ours hanging.

Walker Saik ‘06
SGA Senator

‘59 alum ‘chagrined’
by dead fish, expects
‘better from women’

Sir/Madame:

As a Davidson graduate (Class of 1959), I was amazed,
disappointed,—the best word is chagrined—by your cover story
of 10/2/02, “Fishy flickerball...”

The idea of distributing dead fish is disgusting, and inhumane,
but perhaps not surprising if done by young men. But by young
women?

Even more inappropriate were two direct vulgar quotes re-
garding bodily functions. Again—this seems more out of place
in the mouths of women.

Am I being sexist, to expect better from women than from
men? At least, when they are young. Women mature at an earlier
age than men—or did so when I was young.

Worst of all is the judgment of the editor to report these details,
on the front page yet.

Sincerely,
Robert D. Hoagland *59

