Patterson Court Diaries

First-year reactions to First Night Down

Few people would bother to dispute the fact
that the Courtis qn integral part of the Davidson
social scene, and a lot of emphasis is placed on
the freshman experience there. The
Davidsonian asked three jirst-year writers to
keep diaries over the course of the semester,
chronicling their experiences on Patterson
Court and with the Davidson social scene in
general.

“After countless discussions, lectures, and
information sessions concerning alcohol, sexu-
ality, and drugs, the freshmen have finally been
deemed fit to join the Court. I can’t speak for
the rest of the student body, but even after all of
my “training” I found myself wandering down
the hill on Friday more confused than ever.

“You can’t go in the basement, and that’s
where the drinks are...except for the beers of-
fered as you walk in the door.

“Nobody cares if you drink...unless you hap-
pen to run into an RA, or, better yet, campus
security.”

2K

Night 1: “I felt welcome as soon as I stepped
onto the back porch [at the first party], as
members of the frat circulated to introduce
themselves as well as to provide the promised
beer that we had heard so much about. It was as
though being at the Court made possible a new
sort of freedom, away from the watchful eye of
the school. Here, it seemed, the students ruled.

“I spoke with several [house] members,
whom I perceived to be the most enthusiastic
frat members by far, each of whom seemed
genuinely happy to have me there and to tell me

a little about their organization.”
oh KK

“First Night Down at Davidson College has
become such a big deal to its students that it is
more like a tribal custom than it is a night of
parties. With all the mating, drinking, and
dancing rituals, one might think they have, in
fact, entered a highly important religious cer-
emony. ;

“T think very highly of Davidson students in
the classroom, but I have been far less im-
pressed with them on the Court. What I saw
there was pretty much what I had expected, but
I was disappointed nonetheless.”

2

“I can’thelp but feel sympathy for the admin-
istration, RLO, or whomever it is that continues
to wage this pointless battle to screen The Court
with smoke and mirrors. For all of you (myself
included) who took advantage of these excel-
lent special effects, let us remember, the next
time that a complaint against double-standards
escapes our lips, that without these same incon-
gruities, Friday and Saturday would have pro-
ceeded in wholly different directions—towards
Scrabble and sober Twister, for example.”

OK KK

“The [second] party was much more lively -
that is, until the police shut it down because
people were fighting on the back porch. This
left me with a pretty bad impression, not only of
that particular fraternity, but also of the
Davidson social scene itself. I found myself
wondering if Davidson is the kind of place in
which drunken fistfights are common. .

“T have to say, though, that the police were

Concert Preview: 106.5 The
End Weenie Roast, Sept. 22

By TED EMERSON
Staff Writer

It is a rare occasion to find an event as
promising as the 106.5 The End Weenie Roast.
Sept. 22 at the Verizon Wireless Amphitheater
in Charlotte, the hottest bands in rock will
perform throughout the day. It will be an inter-
national event, bands from Canada, the U.K.
and even Germany (well, not really) will be
present. Nickelback, Filter,,Our Lady Peace,
Default are the headliners, yet the supporting
cast of Goldfinger, Andrew W.K., Berlin (that’s
right, the 80’s cult classic!), and Doves could
easily be the top draw at any other festival.

Nickelback will play the center stage this
year and is returning after a successful set last
year at the Weenie Roast. Nickelback is the
current leader in modern rock. Singer Chad
Kroeger formed the band in 1995 and one year
later released the LP Curb. After forming their
own label, Roadrunner Records, Nickelback
released the highly successful The State featur-
ing hits like “Breathe” and “Leader of Men” and
made waves in Canada that eventually led to
their huge success in the States. A year later,
Silver Side Up was released. It featured such
hits as “How You Remind Me,” “Too Bad,” and
“Never Again.”

Nickelback, along with bands like Creed and
Days of the New, emerged as grunge was begin-
‘ ning to dissipate. All of sudden, the post-grunge
sound is just as alive today as it was 10 years ago
due in large part to Nickelback’ s contributions.

Though Nickelback has been described as a,

melodramatic band, the intensity and personal
connection Kroeger has with his songs makes
them one of the best live performing bands
today.

Filter appeared out of nowhere in 1995.
Founder Rich Patrick worked extensively with
Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails and helped

pave the way for the industrial music invasion
of the early 90’s. Then Patrick left Reznor and
formed Filter, hoping to make a name for him-

self in the business. The first album Short Bus . ©

was an instant hit.

The second album Title of Record met with
mixed reviews. By 2000, Rich Patrick was
living in the shadow of Reznor and the critics
were especially hard on him and his sound.
Filter’s third album, The Amalgamut , finds
Patrick ontop and Reznor no where to be found.
No one knows what has become of NIN, yet
Filter is at their prime. The rawness that was
missing in Title of Record is alive and well in
The Amalgamut. The first single “Where Do
We Go From Here” has invaded the radio waves
and will attract the post-grunge fans into Filter’s
electronic/rock sound.

Formed in Toronto in the early 90’s, Our
Lady Peace is the dark horse of the music scene
today. Hanging around the alternative scene for
close to a decade, it has not been until recently
that their unique pop sound has received the
recognition it deserves.

Lead singer Raine Maida’s voice can stretch
from a scratchy growl to a soulful serenade
which complements the range of talent his band

mates possess. Their current album ‘Gravity °

contains the hit single of the summer “Some-
where Out There” and is perhaps their best work
to date. Touring has never been too successful
for the band, yet this time around things will be
different and the Weenie Roast promises to be
a great way to start off their North American:
tour.

The third Canadian band of the main four,
Default is the surprise band of the year. Their
debut album The Fallout has sold millions
worldwide and the singles “Wasting My Time”

see Concert, page 6

very effective in dealing with the situation. As

awkward as it might be to have ‘an. officer ‘at

every party, it is worth it when they can stop

trouble before it gets out of hand, without hav-

ing tohand out citations and arrests all the time.”
2 RE

“Despite the heavy drinking that occurred on
the Court, I was very pleased with the number
of alternative options. There were activities at
the Union in addition to dry parties on Patterson
Court. The Fire and Ice party at the Outpost was
where I had the most fun. There was no alcohol
and the music was good. I danced with my
friends and had a great time.

“My experience with First Night Down was
overall a positive.one due to the many activities
available to me, but I don’t believe I'll become
a member of the Patterson Court tribe any time
soon.”

rk ok

Night 2: “Second Night Down had almost as
much hype to deal with as First Night Down,
especially due to a rumor that it would be even
better. Our first stop on this night turned out to

be an awkward and semi-depressing party go-
ing on inside and a few people standing in the
drizzle on the back porch.

I eventually [decided] to check out the only
other frat party of the evening. There was sup-
posed to be a band, according to the flyers, so I
was confused when I got inside and there were
a lot of people dancing to CD music.”

KK

“I get the impression that most people en-

' joyed themselves, whether listening to The Clef

Hangers or one of the frat bands. After all, with
the ubiquitous Nelly song “Hot in Herre” blast-
ing literally everywhere, how could anyone
not have fun?”

Contributing Writers: Georgie Ahrendt,
Rob Heidrick, Mary Kathryn Wyle.

Disagree with their impressions? Have
something to add? We would welcome new
diarists to the column.

E-mail Chris (chschmader) or Lindy
(libaldwin) for more information.

One Hour Photo harrowing

Suspenseful buildup tainted
by anticlimactic end

By MatrHew BANDYK
Staff Writer

From very early on in Mark Romanek’s One
Hour Photo (Fox Searchlight Pictures), we
know that Sy “the Photo Guy” Parrish (Robin
Williams) will do something terrible. The an-
ticipation of that misdeed is what makes the film
one of the most effective thrillers in recent
memory. But when the actual revelation finally
comes, it’s a bit anticlimactic and ends this
nonetheless remarkable film on a sour note.

Reviewer Matthew Bandyk says Robin William’s
performance in One-Hour Photo is remarkable.

Robin Williams dominates the film in his role
as Sy, the seemingly friendly film developer at
aone hour photo lab, the kind you would find at
any Wal-Mart (here called Sav-Mart) in
America. Sy takes his job very seriously, as we
find out from a series of coolly detached
voiceovers in which he reveals that he treats his
customers’ photos as if they were his own.

It turns out that having the photos isn’t quite
enough for him. Sy has developed a somewhat
unhealthy obsession with his longtime custom-
ers, the Yorkin family.

The Yorkins seem to be the perfect sarnily
two sophisticated and beautiful parents (Connie
Nielsen and Tom Cruise-wanna-be Michael
Vartan) and a bright 9-year old-son (Dylan
Smith), all living a wealthy life in their gorgeous

suburban home.

But there’s trouble hidden below the surface
at the Yorkin household. This dark underbelly
seems to mirror the violent outbursts that some-
times. creep out from Sy’s friendly fagade..In
turn, Sy’s investigations into the Yorkin family
become slowly more aggressive and bold, build-
ing on the feeling of dread that makes this atruly
suspenseful film.

Director Mark Romanek, well known for his
music videos such as the classic “Closer” by
Nine Inch Nails, gives the film a cold and sterile
ambience in the scenes involving Sy’s job at
Sav-Mart, and a much warmer tone in the
Yorkin home, which is fitting as Sy’s dream
seems to be to escape from his lonely existence
and be a part of this
perfect family. But
Williams steals the
show; his_ perfor-
mance as amad killer
in last year’s Insom-
nia only hinted at the
level of sinister he
achieves here.

A great example of
his chilling work in
One Hour Photo is a
scene in which Sy
compares photogra-
phy to the sport of
hunting (with the ac-
companying gun-like
noises as he clicks off
snapshots). Perhaps
more impressive is
his ability to make lonely sad Sy someone the
audience can sympathize with as well as fear.

Williams withstanding, this is definitely not
a film for the squeamish; it has one of the most
disturbing dream sequences I’ve seen in any
movie.

Unfortunately, the conclusion is unable to
fully live up to the intensity that preceded it.
Another major misstep is an attempt to present
psychological motivations behind Sy’s actions
at the end of the film, taking away from the
mystery that makes Williams’ character so scary
to begin with.

Despite these shortcomings, One Hour Photo
is definitely worth the ticket ‘price, as it is
probably the most harrowing film experience
you will find this fall.
