Seteaie” as al eae

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

A ten-year-old school record was shattered, an
impressive milestone was reached, and three games
were won during last week’s diamond action as
the Davidson baseball team finally broke out of an
eight game losing funk and picked up a couple
SoCon wins in the process.

Having dropped seven in a row, the Wildcats .

traveled north on I-85 last Tuesday to take on the
North Carolina State University Wolfpack with
hopes of ending their winning drought.

Despite a remarkable individual effort from
senior Tim Frend, who went 4-for-4 with two runs
and one RBI, the diamond ’Cats were unable to
eam a positive result as they lost 8-2 and dropped
their eighth straight.

“North Carolina State is aterrific offensiveclub,
and IJ thought our pitchers and our defense did a
pretty good job of containing them,” commented
head coach Dick Cooke following the game. ““We

i:

hadsome opportunities offensively, but wehaven’t
been able to get the timely hits lately.”

Behind the hot bats of junior DJ Dailey, fresh-
man Sam Navarro and senior co-captain Billy
Ryan, Davidson defeated NC A&T forthe second
time this season and finally halted the losing streak
that dated back to the March 5 win over A&T at
their place. ;

Junior Erskine Wells (3-2) picked up the victory
by hurling six innings, allowing just three runs off
seven hits while striking out five against just two
walks. Dailey went 3-for-5 with two runs and a
pairofRBI’s,and NavarroandRyanbothknocked
inthreerunsas the Davidson nine picked up the 10-
8 victory.

Senior co-captain James Marino displayed
amazing discipline at the plate as he walked four

times, becoming the first Wildcat to do so in over.

five years, and Frend fought offaninth inning rally
to collect his second save this season.

Over the weekend, Davidson played host to
UNC-Greensboro and took two of three from the

a

Catcher James Marino gets some help behind the plate from a teammate.

Punt, pass, kick...wait, no. Pitcher Andy Carter, a Wildcat batter, and first baseman Matt Young make the big plays for Davidson.

Spartans while improving to 2-7 in SoCon play.

Frend recorded four base knocks during the
Saturday double header, the last of which eclipsed
aten-yearrecord forcareer hits that was previously
held by current Sports Information Director, Rick
Bender.

Ryan got the Wildcats off to a quick start in
game one by jacking a three run shot, his third
homerun of the year, as the ’Cats grabbed an early
4-Olead. Errors helped the Spartans tie the game in
the third, but Frend retired 15 of 16 batters before
leaving after 7 innings with a 7-4 lead.

The Spartans went deep twice in the eighth,
however, and held Davidson at bay to walk away
with an 8-7 decision. Navarro paced the offense in
the afternoon game when he crushed a grand slam
for his third roundtripper of the year and second of
the day, having already launched a solo shot in
game one.

Marino added another homerun and Ryan’s
two-run single in the seventh ended the game by
virtue of the 10-run slaughterrule. The 16runs and

photos by Lindsay Ferguson

19 hits were both season highs for Davidson. :
Senior Mark Wells (2-3) worked all seven innings
on the mound, yielding six runs off 11 hits while
striking out six against two walks to lead the ’Cats
to their first SoCon victory.

Picking up their second conference win on
Sunday, the Wildcats gotsome timely hitting from
Frend and Ryan in their first extra-inning victory
of 2002. ;

Frend’s solo shot in the seventh tied the game
and Ryan’s two run double with no outs in the
bottom of the tenth earned junior reliever Stephen
Choate his first collegiate decision in 31 appear-
ances as Davidson improved to 10-15 on the year
and 2-7 in SoCon play with the 8-7 win.

Five Wildcats recorded a pair of hits, and Frend
went 3-for-5 with a homerun to lead the offense
while senior Jack Purcell, in just his third game
back, provided some stellar defense at the hot
comer.

Davidson is back in action Friday as they travel
to Wofford for a three-game series."

Photo by Lindsay F. erguson
