__Tue Davipsontan

EXAM INFORMATION |
From the Registrar:

Due to the renovation of Chambers, there
will be some differences in the self-scheduled
exam system from years past. According to
Registrar Hansford Epes, “Obviously, there
have to be some changes and there will be some
inconvenience. Our effort is to make the incon-
venience to students as small as possible.”

For students, here are the big changes:

(1) The Exam Center will be in Chambers
Lobby. The front doors to Chambers will be
locked or blocked, as will be the entries from
the stairways. Everyone will need to use the
first-floor hall.

(2) We will ask that students line up in two
lines based on the last name of the professor
whose exam they are picking up. The break
probably will be A-L and M-Z; we won’ treally
know until we have the exams. Signs will be
posted.

(3) Since tables for giving out exams and
tables for collecting them will have to be the
same tables, we need actively to enforce a rule
that’s been on the books—and printed on the
envelopes—for some time. Exams may not be

Sete aed pte aa Sols aoe

returned before 9:45 (morning exams) or 2:45
(afternoon exams). Exams may not be picked
up after 9:15 (morning exams) and 2:15 (after-
noon exams).

(4) Students occasionally show up without
having turned in envelopes to their professors,
expecting the exam center staffto put “one of
the extras” in an envelope—or even to provide
an envelope. Such requests slow down the pro-
cedure for everyone. We will first hope that the
situation never occurs at all—and then insist
that we won’t accommodate such students until
other students have been through the line and
gotten their exams first. They’ 1I need to goto the
end of the line. Better yet, get the exam envelope
and turn it in to your professor in time.

Exams still must be taken in Chambers. Con-
struction noise will cease during exam periods.

Self-scheduled exams have always taken co-
operation and support from students, faculty,
and staff alike. We’ ve boasted of that coopera-
tion and support for 25 years or more. We know
we can make it work well this time, too.

Sig Ep’s Turkey Trot Raises $4,000+

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Special Contributor

The chilly November weather didn’t stop
186 runners from participating in the Turkey
Trot 5k hosted by Sigma Phi Epsilon on Satur-
day, Nov. 23. The 9:30 a.m. event raised over
$4000 for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Soci-
ety. The fraternity is still collecting donations.

Russell Crandall, a political science profes-
sor at Davidson, won the race in a time of 16:19.
The next finisher, Austin Mercadante °06,
crossed the line in 17:28, nearly 70 seconds
after Crandall. The overall top women’s fin-
isher was Sally Stanhope ’05 in a time of 19:56.

Other Davidson faces toed the line, among
them president Bobby Vagt, athletic director
Jim Murphy, news director Bill Giduz, and

fe |

ei re tin
woe

Resident Advisors (rising Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors)

men’s cross country and track coach Gary An-
drew. Students from all over Patterson Court
and the student body participated as well.

Sig Ep received much help during the event
from Dr. Susan Roberts, faculty advisor to the
fraternity. The political science department
chair, Dr. Mary Thornberry, and assistant ath-
letic director Sterling Martin helped organize
runners at the finish line as well.

Leukemia is one of the four major types of
cancer that afflicts the white blood cells, and
lymphoma is a disease of the lymphatic system
causing malignant tumors to form in lymph
nodes or other lymphatic tissue. The Leukemia
and Lymphoma Society searches for a cure to
these diseases and helps care for currently af-
flicted patients.

Semester in Review: vamanos Van,
Lottery Policy, COEA, CatCards at Joel’s, and more

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

The fall semester has been an interesting one
for members of SGA.

The semester began with SGA’s involve-
ment in the ceremonies and programs com-
memorating the anniversary of September 11,
2001. Members of SGA led a communal gath-
ering around the flagpole early that morning,
and supplied pins for students to wear in
memory of those who died and in celebration of
national pride.

A hot topic at the beginning of the semester
and one that continued to raise debate through
much of the term was the issue of the Red
Bikes. After much debate over what should be
done with the SGA-sponsored program in de-
mise, as well as the related concern of the Code
of Responsibility’s power over vandalism to
the bikes, control of the program was gratefully
relinquished to Davidson Outdoors.

SGA chartered 2 new student associations:
the Jewish Student Union and the Purple Bun-
nies publication.

On September 29, the senators (including the
newly inducted freshmen) held their annual
Fall Retreat to draw up some goals for the rest
of the semester. — mpi Ta

' These goals fell into 5 main categories: to
review the major policies of the Honor Code
and the Code of Responsibility, to increase
communication with the student body, to in-

As an RLO Hall Counselor or Resident Advisor’

Hall Counselors (rising Juniors and Seniors)

crease school spirit, to develop a policy for
dealing with external affairs, and to evaluate the
Activities Tax Council (ATC) and its function.

The ATC, which is in charge of allocating
money to student organizations, came to SGA
nearly every week to either receive approval for
fund apportions or to work on the policies of the
ATC. The dates for Spring Allocations were
changed, and various clauses were debated in
hopes that the ATC and SGA will be able to
function more simply together in the future.

A poll was emailed to the student body regard-
ing the Code of Responsibility and the Honor
Code. SGA drew information from the poll to
determine ways to refresh and rejuvenate these
two vital parts of the Davidson experience for ,
both new and returning students.

SGA formed a Committee on External Affairs
(COEA), which will work to “facilitate a re-
sponse or action by the SGA regarding an issue
or event that has its origin and main sphere of
influence outside of Davidson College.” If
COEA receives a petition with more than 10% of
the on-campus students’ signatures, the com-
mittee will work to draft a resolution that will be
presented to SGA for any necessary decision-
making.

The Vamanos Van was a hot topic of the
semester, as decision-making power-about thé
Van passed from Senator Kevin Epps ’03 to
Senator Walker Saik ’06 after an incident in-

see SGA, page 4

All interested parties encouraged to apply!

Applications are currently available at RLO. Candidates’ completed application will include a
cover letter, resume, application and 2 references (forms provided). Screening will begin in
February and include an individual interview and participation in a group process activity.
Applications are due to RLO by 5:00 pm, Friday January 31st, 2003.

Compensation includes an $800 stipend and half off the room rate for the 2003-2004 year.
Questions? Please contact Associate Director, Leslie Urban, at leurban@davidson.edu or x2188.
