 @ALENDA LU

DavipsON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 27, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 21

WIN BELK INVITATIONAL

)

A

Kevin Bei

Zz
pen

‘05 (left), Brad Becken ‘03 and Chris
Schmader 04 race in the 3000-meter event, page 16

Watson fellowships awarded

Davidson seniors given
prestigious globe-trotting
independent study grants

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer

Four Davidson seniors were recently
awarded the esteemed Thomas J. Watson
Fellowship to pursue independent research
projects abroad in the upcoming year.

Davidson led the nation with four awards.
All four of the school’s nominees - Danielle
F. Dillard ‘02, Amber L. Hartman ‘02, Jason
C. Hollis ‘02, and Adam J. Norris ’02 - were
selected in the nationwide competition. Each
will receive a $22,000 award towards their

‘independently designed project. The four
projects deal with issues including sea turtles,

human beauty, and international health care.

The four were among the 60 Watson Fel-
lows from 41 colleges and universities from
across the nation announced last week by the
Thomas J. Watson Foundation. Since its in-
ception in 1969 sixty-five Davidson students
have won the prestigious Watson Fellow-
ship, but the last time the school had four
winners was 1972.

Dillard, an English major from Greenville,
S.C. is pursuing a study entitled “Thin and
Now: Interpretations of Large Bodies Dis-
covered Through Images and Interview.”

Her project focuses on the “ever-changing
concept of feminine beauty cross-culturally
by examining how ideals are formed and
whether they are based on lifestyle, tradi-
tions, economics, location, and a host of other

see Watson, page 6

RLO sees major increase in
sub-free housing demand

Watts Hall, three floors in

Cannon added to list of

substance-free dorms

By AMANDA PENNOCK

Senior Staff Writer

Due to an increase in demand, the Resi-
dence Life Office will designate additional
living space for substance-free housing be-
ginning in the fall semester.

According to Dean Leslie Marsicano, di-
rector of Residence Life, RLO had originally
designated 10 spaces on Basement Cannon
for upperclass men, 24 spaces on First Can-
non for upperclass women, and all of Watts
for freshman as substance-free housing for
the coming year. Marsicano explains that

“using Watts represented an small increase in
first year sub-free housing in keeping with
our last two years’ experience of having more
first year students request sub-free housing
than we had spaces. However, [RLO] did not
increase the number of spaces available to
upperclass students initially because we were
not expecting to be over-subscribed.”
Because upperclassmen are able to use the
lottery to choose their neighbors and infor-
mally cluster with other sub-free students in
West and the Martin Court apartments, RLO
was slightly surprised to receive “a number of
emails from students who were concerned
that [they] had not designated enough sub-
free spaces - particularly men’s spaces - and
that there were not enough singles on the
designated halls,” according to Marsicano.

see Sub-free, page 3

TIBETAN Monk RESIDENCY

2 RS

Buddhist monks from the Loseling Monastary in India use sand to
create a mandala in the Union during their residency last week.

New rule promotes ‘equity’ in honor trials

Ministers, family members,
lawyers will be allowed in
waiting room during trial

By CoLin EAGAN
News Editor

A change to the Code of Disciplinary Pro-
cedures proposed by the Honor Council was
recently made final following approval from
the Student Conduct Council and the Office
of the President.

The “right to additional support” change,
first recommended by the Honor Council this
fall, revises the process of an honor trial.

Under previous wording of Part III, Section ©

F., 5g of the Code of Disciplinary Proce-

dures, the accused has the right to be “accom-
panied at the hearing by counsel of his or her
choice,” who may advise but not participate
directly in the proceedings. This law permit-
ted professional counsel, parents, or any one
else desired by an accused student to sit in the
courtroom during trial.

The recently approved change states that
“An accused student may request additional
persons (i.e., family member, minister, law-
yer) be allowed to sit in a nearby waiting
room during the proceedings of the Honor
Council,” thus removing counsel from direct
contact. ;

The SCC held its first vote on the change in
the fall, following a passing vote from the

Honor Council. The change was formally .

recommended to the President’s office with

the SCC’s second vote at its January 30
meeting. President Bobby Vagt recently sub-
mitted his approval, making the change final.

According to former Honor Council Chair
Will Parker ’02, the alteration was first sug-
gested to better preserve the student run na-
ture of the hearing process. “A nicely dressed
attorney or emotional parent in the room can
be very distracting, and inconsistent with
what we want the trial process to be like,” said
Parker.

Another driving reason behind the change
was described by Parker as the “equity argu-
ment.” Students who could not afford profes-
sional Counsel were disadvantaged under the
old wording, as the college has no current

see Trials, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-6
ROTC cadets devise tougher training
routine with new boss. Page 5.

Arts and Living Pages 7-9
Complete recap of the Academy
Awards ceremony. Pages 7-8.

Perspectives Pages 10-11
A look back at the Andrea Yates trial
in Houston. Page 8.

Sports Pages 12-16

Baseball finally gets on track with two
weekend wins over UNC Greensboro.
Page 12.

