Yes, we know it’s acliche. Nonetheless, this week we asked members of the A&L writing and
editing staff to pick out the three CDs they’d want with them if they were marooned on that
proverbial desert island. The picks span both time and taste from Frank Sinatra to the Rolling
Stones to the Dave Matthews Band. Even if you’re a music god who already owns every album
known to man, indulge us and check out this list - you'll probably find something new and worth
a listen!

Erin Raffety ’04, A&L Staff Writer

1) Willy Porter, Dog Eared Dream. Perhaps I’m just partial to Willy Porter, because he’s
from Wisconsin, but he’s a little Tracy Chapman, a little G. Love, and a lot his own sultry,
soulful, soothing style. I recommend any of his albums, starting with Dog Eared Dream. Not
only is the music truly beautiful—listen closely— ,
the lyrics are incredible.

2) Frank Sinatra, The Very Best of Frank Sinatra.
Why doesn’t anyone write music like this any-
more? And why doesn’t anyone sing like this
anymore? And why doesn’t anyone dance like
this anymore? I think it’s because we’ve all given
up on the greats of our parents’ and grandpar-
ents’ time, like Frank Sinatra. For $25.49 you can
slip back into yesteryears, belt out tunes like “The
Way You Look Tonight” and “Luck Be a Lady,”
dance into the wee hours of the morning, and own
“The Very Best of Frank Sinatra””. .

3) Joni Mitchell, Blue. Although it’s an early
album, it’s a great one. Joni Mitchell is between
folk, pop, jazz, and poetry, and what emerges are
beautiful songs like “Carey,” “California,” and
“All I Want.”

JONI MITCHELL

Charles Cummins °04, A&L Staff Writer

1) Aerosmith, Get A Grip. While Aerosmith has
been making hits for nearly 40 years, it was this
album, released in 1993, which introduced the
greatest American rock band to a new generation.
While all Aerosmith albums have their hits, this is,
in my opinion, their most complete album, which I
can listen to the entire way without skipping any
tracks. Including hits like “Crazy”, “Cryin’’,
“Amazing”, “Eat the Rich”, “Shut Up and Dance”,
‘Livin’ on the Edge’’, and the title song “Get a
Grip”, this album is great for a Court party, a room
party, or just to listen to on your own.

2) Paul Simon, Graceland. This album defines
Paul Simon’s solo career after the breakup of Simon
& Garfunkel. Once again, I can play this album the
entire way through withoutskipping anything. With
hits such as “Diamonds on the Soles of her Shoes’,
“Graceland”, and “You Can Call Me AI’, many
students will recognize some of the songs from the
Generals rendition of them. While they can only hit
on one or two of the great songs on this album, I
highly recommend listening to the entire album. CET A GRIP

3) Dave Matthews Band, Crash. OK, I know a good number of you are die-hard Dave
Matthews fans. I respect that, but I am not
one of them. However, that being said, this
album is incredible, from Dave’s vocals to
the instrumentation. Once again, just push
play, sit back, and enjoy the music. To this
day, I think this is the band’s best album and
the reason I nominate Dave Matthews Band
for the Spring Concert.

Andy Heston ‘05, A&L Staff Writer

1) Lead Belly, Last Sessions. A huge listen:
over four hours of just a guy and his guitar
playing folk songs, blues, field hollers, nov- .
elty songs, love songs, etc. Leadbelly was a
huge man, and you can hear it: if his guitar

wt lay

we were stranded on a desert island with only 3 CDs ...

sounds monstrous, his voice has to be heard to be believed. But it’s the songs themselves that
are truly astounding, alternately earthy, wistful, howling, and even delicate (if a 300 pound
man can be delicate). Basically Leadbelly running through the entire pre-war folk song
canon, with spectacular results, Plus the best song about a boll weevil ever written.

2) Beastie Boys, Paul’s Boutique. What makes this album so amazing is not just the music
itself, but the fact that this is the same band who released the classic Licensed to Illl only three
years before. Those beer-drinking New York kids grew up fast, and somewhere along the
way they became geniuses. They were done fighting for their right to party; they were
fighting for the legitimacy of hip-hop as an art form. If you don’t believe me, find that site

TELEVISION

on the Internet that lists all the samples used on this
record. Then listen to the album itself, and marvel at
what a cohesive whole it is. And what a marvelously
funky whole that is. And finally, in the words of the
Boys themselves, “Shake your rump-a!”

3) Rolling Stones, Exile on Main Street. Thisis rock
and roll. Pure, unadulterated, sloppy, greasy, as-
tounding rock and roll. The stories surrounding this
album are as legendary as the album itself: it was
recorded in the band’s villa in Southern France
Se under conditions that rivaled the Roman Emperor
MARQUEE MOON for debauchery, stuff far more scandalous than you'll

ever find in the Davidsonian. But all legends aside,
this is the best album ever made. Keep your White Albums, your Zosos, your Dark Side of
the Moons, your whatevers. Give me Exile. I’d call it a musical encyclopedia, but
encyclopedias never have anything as satisfying as Charlie Watt’s drum intro to “Loving

. i

Chris Schmader ’04, A&L Editor

LOU nt

1) Television, Marquee Moon. One of the
first rock groups to play at the storied New -
York club CBGB and OMFUG in the mid-
1970’s, Television features two of rock’s most
inspired guitarists in Tom Verlaine and Rich-
ard Lloyd. Marquee Moon, their debut al-
bum, is the band’s definitive statement, as
Verlaine and Eloyd’s guitar playing alter-
nates between chiming beauty, aggressive
thrust, and poetic improvisation, adding up to
a sound utterly different from that of any
other guitar-based rock group. Best song
(arguably): The ten-minute plus “Marquee
Moon,” which establishes a simple, relentless groove early on and ends with a solo by
Verlaine that builds to a transcendent climax.

2) Amy Rigby, Diary of a Mod Housewife. Another fine debut album, 1995’s
Diary...chronicles the ups and downs (but mostly the downs) of a failing marriage. With a
funny, rueful and incisive lyrical voice, Rigby doesn’t miss a beat as she weds garage-rock
and country music with the desperation of a wife who feels trapped in her relationship. Best
song: “The Good Girls,” a driving pop-rock tirade against mass media and the dope it sells
us in the form of trashy books and music.

3) Lou Reed, The Blue Mask. Twelve years into his post- Velvet Underground solo career,
Lou Reed recorded this album with a band featuring the great New York-based guitarist
Robert Quine. Lyrically, half of The Blue Mask stands as a paean to settling down, with songs
like “My House” and “Heavenly Arms” detailing pleasures of Reed’s marriage to Sylvia
Morales, while the other half deals in the themes violence and masochism that Reed has
explored since the first Velvet Underground album. Here, Reed’s songwriting provides an

open-

ended,
drone-y

- forum
for

Quine’s

flat,

hum-
ming

c a-

dences.
Best

song:

6 U n-

der-

neath

t he

Bottle,”

a

catchy,

brief,
and
witty
account
of the
perils of
- .alcohol-
ism.

ask about our US Stylists
- $20 cut & style -

spa packages
hair services
nail care
body treatments

skin care

gift certificates

man Crossing

p
ing Center

704-895-0404
