By Matr GarFIELD §

- Managing Edit Editor

You might call it the great scoreboard mys- _

tery.

Why, with Richardson Stadium closed for
the winter, is the scoreboard still turned on 24
hours a day? And why does it display falling
snowflakes?

Mike Clark, Associate Director of Sports
Information, can answer the first question.
* “A repairman fixed it and said to keep it on,”
he said. “He thought water was getting into the
scoreboard and shorting out something. His
theory was that if we kept it on and running, it
would keep the scoreboard warm, which would
prevent water from building up and shorting
out the wires.”

But for Clark and all passersby perplexed
about the snowflakes, there are no easy an-

swers.

Clark says he doesn’ t know who did made
the snow.

“T guess you could cceiiee it a mystery,
because there are very few people who know
how to run the scoreboard,” he said. “I’m one
of the few people who knows how, and I
haven’t changed it.”

The high-tech screen was installed last year
and is run by acomputer from the press box. It
displays scores and stats during games, but the
images act as a sort of screensaver ve the
stadium isn’t in use.

Clark says it takes only a few minutes to dial
up anew image. Back in September, he put up
a swirling spiral—mainly for lack of a better
option.

“‘We’ve pretty much been using the swirly
thing. We just had to keep something up there
to keep it warm,” he said.

Football finishes season with

By Matt GARFIELD
Managing Editor

The Wildcats saved their best football for
the last half of the season.

Knotted in a 14-14 tie at halftime against
Austin Peay, the Davidson offense exploded
for five straight touchdowns to secure victory
No. 7, clinch second place in the Pioneer
League’s South Division—and allow 16 se-
niors to close their careers on a winning note:

“The seniors really wanted to go out with a
win, and that may have worked against us in
the first half,” said head coach Mike Toop. “I
think they were pressing a bit to make things
happen instead of letting them happen. But
they understood what they needed to do for the

final 30 minutes and executed very well.”

The Wildcats (7-3, 2-1) eclipsed the 30-
point mark in each of their last four contests,
this time with dominant performances from
Paul Nichols (school-record five touchdown
passes), John Leverett (127 yards rushing, two
TDs) and Barrett Johnson (92 yards receiving,
two TDs).

Mike Chase set a school record with his 12"
touchdown catch of the season, while Nichols
tied two records—touchdown passes in a game
and season (25).

“When you can come out in the second half
and score on five straight possessions, you’ re
definitely doing something right,” said
Johnson. “Coming down the stretch, we lost a
couple of games. (The seniors) really carried

But last Monta: the’
snowflakes appeared out
of nowhere, and have re-
mained ever since.

Soon, however, the
images will be replaced
by advertisements for
upcoming sporting

‘events and other an-
nouncements—a
change that Clark says
makes sense.

“If we’re going to
keep it on, we might. as
well use it for the better-
ment of Davidson stu-
dents,” he said. “Be-
cause snow doesn’t re-
ally do much.”

Eron Earley-Thiele

victory over Austin Peay

us in the last four.”

One of those seniors was center Jon Davis,
an all-conference performer who anchored the
Wildcats’ offensive line the past two seasons.

“Tt would’ ve been nice to play another home
game for the Pioneer League championship,”
said Davis. “But in the situation we were in,
you couldn’ t ask for a better game. That was a
great way to close out our tremendous ca-
reers.”

Davis said suiting up for the final time was

an emotional experience for all the seniors.
* “Football was something that made my life
easier here at Davidson,” he said. “It’s gonna
be tough not playing next year. Years down
the road, I’1l still have that love for the game.
It'll be tough to let go.”

Hall Counselors (rising Juniors and Seniors)
- Resident Advisors (rising Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors)

Beet |

~TAslan RLO Hall Counselor or Resident Adviso

Toop and the Wildcats are faced with sev-
eral questions heading into the off-season,
most notably who will replace Paul Nichols at
quarterback.

Freshman Tom Cook and sophomores
Damion White and Andrew Pickens each re-
ceived limited playing time this year, and all
three are expected to compete for the starting
job.

The defense also has several positions to
fill, with the loss of twin safeties Adam and
Graham Elmore and linemen Ryan Tennis and
Blake Bergeron.

The schedule should be even more chal-
lenging next season, with likely match-ups
against Morehead State, Dayton, Butler and
VMI.

\\ me ae
- a

All interested parties encouraged to apply!

Applications and job descriptions will be available at RLO December 2nd, 2002. Applications are
due by 5:00 pm, Friday January 31st, 2003. Candidates’ completed application will include a
cover letter, resume, application and 2 references (forms provided). Screening will begin in
February and include-an individual interview and participation in a group process activity.

GOING ABROAD this SPRING?? Applications are available now at RLO and due November a6.

