Key West was a highlighted feature of the

Just as their Concert Choir counterparts,
students in the Jazz Ensemble and Orchestra
took advantage of scheduled time for recre-
ation. Memorable events of the Key West
stop included snorkeling in the Atlantic just

south of the island, and a run in with “The
Great Rondini,” a self-styled escape artist/
street performer who requested that orches-
tra members tie him up and hang him from
arope.

Orchestra and Jazz Band members also
had the opportunity to have fun in Bush
Gardens, Tampa.

SPRING BREAK 2002

Join Student Travel Services,

Earn Cash or Free Trips.

| On Campus Contact

|

Jamaica, Cancun, Bahamas or Florida.
Americas #1 Student Tour Operator.

Promote Trips at Davidson College

Mann Travel & Cruises (704) 892-9020
__ Information/ Reservations: 1-800-648-4849

Or www.ststravel.com

| 1 Be Bie

Members of the Concert Choir take a break from a busy singing
schedule to gather for a picture on a tour stop in Dallas, Texas.

™ 7 mA v, ° r ‘ Bee a

“Rob Neuman ’04, the Orchestra’s manager, -

was pleased with the outcome of the tour,
describing it as “a great time, and a great source
of publicity for the college.”

Tales of excitement told by those who toured
this winter have filtered back to those who
chose to stay at home. “Sounds like fun, man,”

winter i in Michigan, “All I did c over break
was crash my car.”

Members of the Choir, Orchestra and Jazz
Band returned to Davidson early in the morn-
ing of Saturday, January 12. Many wel-
comed the two-day weekend before the start
of class as an oppurtunity to relax after an
enjoyable yet tiring winter tour.

commented Hak Shin Park ’04, who spent his

The Chamber Singers perform a concert at
the St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans.

Alum endows new international studies position

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Press Release

Davidson alumnus John F. McGee of
Charleston, W.Va., has made a gift to, his
alma mater to endow a unique position for
international studies at the college.

The donation, made through the John F.
and Ruth B. McGee Foundation, will support
a person with international expertise who
holds the joint title of McGee Professor and
Director of the Dean Rusk Program in Inter-
national Studies. The holder of those titles
will provide, in the benefactor’s words, “a
concentrated direction and cohesive force
toward learning opportunities for students in
international matters as well as travel.”

The college is currently conducting .a na-
tional search to fill the position. In addition to
teaching, the McGee Professor will direct all
programs relating to international studies.

The Dean Rusk Program was inaugurated
in 1985 in honor of former U.S. Secretary of
State Dean Rusk, a 1931 Davidson gradu-
ate. The program functions to improve un-
derstanding of international issues at the
college and in the community. The program
also sponsors lectures on campus by promi-
nent people involved in international af-
fairs, and campus events that focus on inter-
national awareness.

In response to the McGee Foundation’s
announcement, Davidson College President
Robert F. Vagt said, “The creation of the
program 16 years ago acknowledged that
Davidson recognizes the importance of in-
ternational awareness, and current events
have reinforced that our future depends on
achieving an understanding of other people
and their cultures. The gift from John McGee
and his wife Ruth perpetuates a position at
Davidson devoted to that goal.”

Self-Selection starts
spring social schedule

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Staff Writer

Around 5:30 on Friday morning, nearly
every student on Davidson’s campus was
awakened by the raucous hollering and bang-
ing of pots and pans that accompany what
marks the freshman women’s official debut
as members of Patterson Court — Self-Selec-
tion 2002.

Earlier in the week, each freshman woman
who wished to self-selectranked eating houses
in order of choice. Many freshmen “clus-
tered” with up to three friends to ensure that
they would be placed in a house together. The
self-selection forms were then processed by a
lottery system.

When all was said and done, Rusk, Warner
Hall, and Conner each added 44 freshwomen
to their ranks; Turner gained 35; and CoHo
added 30 women and 10 men.

A complete listing of the names of each
house’s new members can be found on the
Patterson Court web page.

Every eating house formed a coalition of

returning members to wake the new members

for breakfast in the wee hours of Friday~

morning. The racket led to retaliation on
behalf of some of the men’s halls; previously
prepared water balloons and water guns,

among other semi-harmless weapons, were
employed against the parading groups of
inductees.

Breakfast with each house included many
introductions, much yawning, food, and
even dancing at some houses.

After being forced to return to the aca-
demic events of-‘any normal Friday on cam-
pus, new members eagerly anticipated the
social events that would take place at the
houses that night.

The houses all had closed parties until 10
p.m., at which point Turner and Warner
Hall opened their doors to the Court.

At each house, new members got down
and dirty: current members showered them
with everything from ketchup to glitter to
chocolate sauce to shaving cream.

Afterwards, dancing, music and even
karaoke livened up the scene at each house.

For the rest of the weekend, houses con-
tinued to welcome their new members with
various meals, “sisterhood” get-togethers,
at least one group outing to the Saturday
night men’s basketball game and informa-
tion sessions. —

‘McGee Visiting Professorship brings to cam-

A 1943 Davidson College graduate, McGee
is a lifelong supporter of the college. Foremost
among his previous gifts was a donation in
1989 to endow a professorship in writing. The

the Evening Post Publishing Company. He
has since served as president and associate
publisher of the State-Record Newspapers,
president of Clay Communications, Inc., and
publisher of the Charleston Daily Mail, di-
rector of Thomson Newspapers in Toronto,
Canada, and the Raleigh News and Observer,
and also a director of the Associated Press in
New York. He has also lectured through the
efforts of the State Department, in Namibia,
Botswana, and Zimbabwe as well as at the
University of Nairobi’s Graduate School of
Journalism.

John and his wife Ruth reside in Charles-
ton, WV. He has been involved in his com-
munity as president of the West Virginia
Press Association and as a member of the
advisory board for West Virginia University’s
School of Journalism. He is also active in
many local organizations promoting com-
munity development in the arts.

pus each spring distinctive writers such as Peter
Meinke, Robert Morgan, and Sherri Reynolds.
South Carolina novelist Josephine Humphreys
will hold the title during the coming spring
semester 2002.

McGee was a political science major at
Davidson, president of the Eumenean Literary
Society, an ROTC cadet captain, and a member
of Kappa Sigma Fraternity. From 1943-45,
McGee served as a Captain in the U.S. Army,
landing in Normandy in the early days of the
war, and was decorated with two Purple Hearts
and three Bronze Stars, among several other
recognitions

His forty-year career in newspaper publica-
tion began in his native Charleston, S.C., with

Did Yow know that
Griffin Brothers
bie Sales

FF Hd o vid Cs Wo re.
team jwt tires?

Griffin Brothers Tire Sales, Inc. has the most advanced diagnostic
equipment & superior customer service.

Trust Griffin Brothers with all your automotive needs including...
major engine work ¢ scheduled maintenance © computer diagnostics

ore

A.

“GRIFFIN =

Lake Noopan
704.896 ,8473
19141 W. Catawba Ave.

BROTHERS
TIRE SALES, yes

of?

ay
704.662.0049
278 W. Plara Dr. (Hwy. 150)

