DAvipsON COLLEGE

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 14

Patterson Court houses
release standards report

Despite overall ‘drastic
improvement,’ some ar-
eas Stillinneed of change

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

Last week, the Patterson Court Self-Stud-
ies and Standards Committee released a re-
port detailing the status of all Court houses in
a number of areas.

The report contains mostly good news for
the college’s fraternities and eating houses,
but a few houses fell short of meeting all of
the Committee’s requirements.

The Self-Studies Committee was estab-
lished in September 1998 to monitor the
status of Patterson Court in seven key areas —
Academics, Finances, Programming, Facili-
ties, Membership, Service and Faculty/Staff
Relations. (Phi Gamma Delta, the only off-
campus fraternity, is not awarded a score in

Photo by Tim Cook
Enp oF AN Era: Outgoing SGA
President Joey Harris looks
back on his administration for
the first in a series spotlighting
Davidson’s student leaders.
See page 5.

Facilities.)

Houses are awarded up to one hundred
points in each category. The scores for Aca-
demics, Facilities and Membership are
doubled to arrive at the final tally for each
house.

Out of a maximum of 1000 points, CoHo
led the pack with an overall score of 985.
Rusk and Turner followed close behind with
954 and 951 points, respectively. Connor had
930 points, Pi Kappa Alpha 919 and Kappa
Alpha 916. FIJI rounded out the houses
above 90%. Kappa Sigma, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta
and Warner Hall all scored in the 800s.

Outgoing Patterson Court Council Chan-
cellor North Moore ’03 wrote the report ac-
companying the data. In it, he expressed
satisfaction with the results, pointing out that
out of the twelve houses only three (SAE,
Warner Hall and Phi Delt) failed to meet the

see Report, page 2

Donor’s gift expected to
revolutionize program
with scholarships,
speakers and research

By Emity Drew
Senior Staff Writer

A $1 million grant froma donor who wishes
not to be named will be used to develop an
East Asian component to the Asian studies
program at Davidson. Over the next four
years, the grant will support two new profes-
sorships and one full scholarship, while also

Forum addresses Court,

Follow-up to November
discussion results in
answers, new concerns.

By JessicA MERING
Editor in Chief

More than 60 students, staff members and

administrators gathered in Chambers Gallery

. last Wednesday for the social life forum
sponsored by the offices of the president and
the dean of students.

Students made up a large percentage of the
audience, including the presidents of Patterson
Court houses, Union Board representatives
and SGA senators. Several campus safety
officers were also in attendance. President

‘Bobby Vagt and Dean Tom Shandley orga-

nized the forum as a follow-up to last
semester’s discussion of social life on cam-
pus.

“The intent is for the administration to give
specific responses to issues raised at the last
social forum, ranging from issues of trans-
portation and sororities to the use of the
Outpost,” said Vagt. He and Shandley began
this session by thanking the participants for
attending and by commenting on several spe-
cific issues raised in the previous conversa-
tion. ;

Shandley addressed student concerns that
the atmosphere on the court has changed and
is subject to stricter and more arbitrary rule
enforcement than previous semesters. He
noted that meetings between campus safety
officers and student representatives occurred
to improve communication between the two
groups. The recent clarification of rules for

ImMORTALIZED: Former Davidson president Dr. John W. Kuykendall (left)
was among those inducted into the Athletic Hall of Fame during
Saturday’s Basketball game vs. Western Carolina. See page 12.

$1 million grant will add professors,

funding guest speakers and faculty research.
Part of the endowment will be used to finance
Dean Rusk student grants for East Asian
study, research, and travel.

“The grant really revolutionizes the al-
ready-strong Asian studies program here,”
said Dr. Shelley Rigger, Brown Associate
Professor of East Asian Politics. “We’ve
only been concentrating on Asian studies for
a few years, and we were anticipating many

more years before we could have a strong;

East Asian program in place. The new grant

has made it possible to develop this compo-_

nent within only four years.”

The grant’s donor hopes to introduce stu-
dents to various aspects of East Asian culture,
and with the money, an East Asian historian

Outpost

weekday parties resulted from these meet-
ings.

Vagt discussed the current questions about
the Outpost’s future, including recent rumors
that it may return soon. “I understand this is
an issue, I don’t want to mislead anybody, but
that’s not going to happen this year,” he said.
Instead, discussion will continue about the
best way to use the Outpost. Right now,
Davidson International Association is under-
going a trial year in the building.

Other possibilities include various Patterson
Court houses using it while their houses are
refurbished (renovations may begin this
summer) or the eventual opening of another
eating house. All of these options are still in
the preliminary discussion phase; Vagt
stressed that the best use of the Outpost has

see Forum, page 4

travel to Asian studies program:

and a Chinese language professor will join
the faculty. Additionally, one full scholar-

. Ship will be available for a native Mandarin

speaker, who will be required to work as an
AT. .

“We hope that the publicity of East Asian
issues will encourage students tolook at these
areas for study and travel,” said Rigger.
“Davidson is currently affiliated with a pro-
gram in Beijing, and because of the grant,
individual research and study is now more
feasible”

The Dean Rusk Program first utilized the
new funds to present Taiwanese diplomat

see Grant, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
RLO investigates a costly Self-Selec-
tion prank. Page 3.

Arts & Living 5-6
Our critic lists his top ten movies of
the year. Page 6.

Perspectives 7-8
Examining the repercussions of the
Enron scandal. Page 8.

Sports 9-12
Check out our men’s and women’s
basketball analysis. Page 9-12.

