New scholarship promotes diversity

Fund named for ‘Charles’ will sponsor minority students from the Chicago area

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

John McCartney ’74 and his spouse Clare
Mufiana recently worked with the admis-
sions office to create a new scholarship aimed
at attracting accomplished minority students
from Chicago public schools. While promot-
ing diversity at Davidson, “The Charles Schol-
arship,” funded by the couple, will annually
provide, full funding for one student “with
demonstrated financial need and a strong
record of leadership.” th

This year, the college inaugurated the schol-
arship opportunity by flying the thirteen ap-
plicants from Chicago for a weekend visit.
The group had the opportunity to meet
McCartney, who was in the area on trustee
business. He spoke to them about Davidson
and the school’s influence on his own life.
After hearing McCarthy speak, the high school
seniors attended classes and panel discus-
sions with students about Davidson life, and

explored Patterson Court, Charlotte, and a
men’s basketball game.

McCartney and the admissions staff hope
the scholarship will have a snowball effect in
attracting Chicago students to Davidson. They
hope that even those applicants who don’t
win the Charles Scholarship will choose to
apply for admission and take advantage of
other financial aid opportunities. “Davidson
has attracted students from the Chicago sub-
urbs, but not many from the city system,”
explained McCartney. “We hope the scholar-
ship will help us identify top students there
we may not have otherwise known about.”

John Dover, Davidson’s associate dean of
admission and director of multicultural re-
cruitment, pointed out that the benefits of the
Charles Scholarship will be felt not only by
the scholarship recipients but the college it-
self.

“Hopefully we’ ll see several of these young
people matriculate here. They will not only
increase the diversity of our student body

immediately, but their success here will cre-
ate an enduring Chicago legacy at Davidson,”
he said.

The scholarship was created in honor of the
couple’s fathers, both of whom were named
“Charles.” Both men were immigrants to
America and the first in their respective fami-
lies to attend college. Each raised five chil-
dren, and made sure their children all at-
tended college and had the opportunity to go
to graduate school. “They both made the

‘most of family, community service, and edu-

cation, and we would hope you would follow
those footsteps,” McCartney said.

The admissions staff is currently process-
ing the 13 applications for the Charles Schol-
arship. Four students will be selected as final-
ists and will be brought back to campus for
interviews on Scholars Weekend, April 12-
14. The scholarship will be awarded at that
time.

Information for this article was taken from
a College Communications Press Release.

Speaker shares story, warns of drunk driving

BY ROLAND F. Foss
Staff Writer

Mark Sterner’s life changed drastically
when three of his best friends and fraternity
brothers were killed in car accident during
spring break in 1994. Sterner, the driver,
ended up with three felony convictions of
DUI manslaughter and two years in jail.

Sterner shared his story with nearly 500
Davidson students at his Feb. 25. talk
Chamber’s Gallery. His presentation warned
of the dangers of drunk driving, and was
sponsored by campus organizations and the

National College Athletic Association

(NCAA).

Sterner said that he “hopes people can learn
from my story so they don’t do the same
thing. They should think about the things
they do.”

Sterner described the night of his drunk
driving crash when he and ‘four friends were
coming back from a bar near Ft. Myers, Fla.
They nominated the person they thought was

“Teast drunk” to drive. Sterner, with a BAC
of .17%, was “least drunk,” even though he
was still over twice the legal limit. His friends
were at .22.

On a‘two-lane,

DUI manslaughter, which came with a maxi-
mum sentence of forty-five years. The twenty-
one year-old walked away with a reduced,
two-year sentence only as a resuit of the

direct intervention

35mph road, he
lost control of the
vehicle at 60mph.
The car hit a tree,
flipped, and
ejected the passen-
gers, none of
whom were wear-
ing seatbelts.
Catapulted over
forty yards from
the car, Sterner
landed in some

woods and sustained broken ribs, a broken -

pelvis, severe head injuries, and tree branches
through an arm and a foot. As Sterner empha-
sized, he was the lucky one. Three of his
friends were pronounced dead at the scene.
Sterner was charged with three counts of

“His message was
clear as a bell, and I
will keep his experi-
ence in mind.”

- Alyssa Sinclair ’03

of the families of his
friends. He spent
those years in a me-
dium-to-maximum
security prison.

Living in a cell
block where the
others inmates had
life or commuted
death sentences, his
time spent there be-
came the “scariest”
two years of his life.
He is on parole until the-end of 2008.

The other survivor of the accident refuses
to talk to him. They used to be best friends,
rooming together four years and pledging the
same fraternity. No longer.

Sterner’s presentation was a stirring testi-

mony to the deep consequences that can
come from just one mistake. He showed
extensive video of all the friends dancing,
taking shots, and driving around—all on the
night that changed, or ended, their lives. It
was a presentation that, given a week before
spring break, was quite timely.

The audience overwhelmingly consisted
of freshmen who are new members of
Patterson Court. According to Grahaeme
Hesp, Patterson Court adviser, all the mem-
bers of the freshman class of Patterson Court
organizations were “strongly encouraged” to
attend.

Phi Delta Theta pledge Rutledge Johnson

’05 said of the speech, “Sterner had a great
impact on most of the students around me as
he should have. His message was clear as a
bell and I will keep his experience in mind .”

Sterner shares his message with high school
and college students across the country. He
has spoken to more than 300,000 students
since 1995.

RLO, from page 1

they’re choosing,” said Marsicano.

The most notable change is probably the
new co-ed clustering rule. Marsicano ex-
plained that clustering is intended to allow
close friends to enter the housing lottery
together. The clustering group of four adds

their lottery numbers together and divides by ©

two to determine the number that both pairs
of roommates will use in the housing lottery.
Since the two pairs are called up to choose at
the same time on lottery night, they are able to
select rooms on the same floor. If their first-
choice floor is full or only has room for one,
the cluster can opt to split up. Students in the
singles lottery may not cluster.

In previous years, only same-sex clusters
have been allowed, and the clustering pairs

usually wind up on the same floor. At the
request of the SGA Residence Life Cornmit-
tee, this year RLO has instituted the option of
co-ed clustering. A pair of male roommates
and a pair of female roommates can thus opt
to share a lottery number and pick their rooms
at the same time.

However, Marsicano emphasized, in most
cases co-ed clusters will end up on different
floors in the same building. If a building is
designated co-ed by floor, a cluster cannot
violate this rule by moving men and women
onto the same floor. Students (and parents)
may rest assured that there will be no co-ed
bathrooms.

As is typical, floor assignments will be
slightly altered this year; Marsicano said that
the gender designations of floors-are rotated
regularly. Final gender assignments are not

SPRING BREAK

Cancun, Acapulco, Mazatlan,

Jamaica,

Bahamas & S.Padre

www.studentexpress.com
Call Now: 1-800-787-3787

Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

yet concrete. More unusual are class desig-
nation changes. Watts will become a co-ed,
all-freshman, substance-free dorm, in part
due to the greatly increased demand for sub-
stance-free housing. Upper-class substance-
free housing will be available in the basement
and first floor of Cannon.

Watts’ next-door neighbor, Little, will be
completely renovated this summer — includ-
ing a new heating/air-conditioning system,
which Marsicano says will eliminate Little’s
pesky mold problems. The bathrooms, at the
request of SGA, will also be renovated. Little
will become a co-ed upper-class dorm.

The elimination of single-sex dorms is not
accidental. ““We just didn’t have demand for
it anymore,” Marsicano explained. No men
and only ahandful of women requested single-
sex housing this year.

02/17/02 - Baker Sports

The value is estimated at $400.00

02/17/02 - Richardson

02/22/02, the bicycle was recovered.

CAMPUS LOLiGh bLOrTER

It was reported that on 2/17/02, a Panasonic Camcorder was discovered missing.

It was reported that an unlocked black/red Trek bicycle was staken from Richardson
Dorm. It is estimated that the worth of the bicycle is approximately $600.00. On

Thanks to Jim Lyon, Assistant Director Public Safety and Police, for his help with the Police Blotter!

First Center Belk will also become co-ed
upper-class; Third Belk will new house fresh-
men along with the basement, second floor
and the East and West wings of the first floor.
Richardson will remain all-freshmen, and
will also be refurbished this summer.

Another change to the lottery process will
be the elimination of theme halls. Marsicano
described the coming year as a “sabbatical
year” and said, ““Theme halls have been suc-

_ cessful, but not as successful as they could be.

We’re going to take the next year to study
theme halls and redesign them for increased
success.”

Marsicano wished to emphasize that, as in
past years, all application deadlines and lot-
tery night timelines are absolute — and those
who miss them will end up missing out on
their first choice for housing next year.
