By Matt BANDYK
Staff Writer

If you had one shot

One opportunity

To see the new movie 8 Mile
Starring Eminem

Should you take it?

I have to admit-that I was skeptical when I
heard that there was going to be a movie starring
Eminem. After all, he is pretty much as big of
a Star as one can get in the music world today,
and whenever something gets that popular, a
movie inevitably arrives to milk even more cash
from it. So this movie seemed like Hollywood
simply trying to tap the youth market by throw-
ing the music world’s newest big thing onto the
silver screen, acting ability be damned.

But the fact that Curtis Hanson, who had
previously directed the critically acclaimed and
Oscar-nominated LA Confidential and Wonder
Boys, as director has lent a certain artistic cred-
ibility to 8 Mile. The movie is definitely a step
down for Hanson; it’s nowhere near as good as
the previously mentioned films. However, there
are some positive qualities that prevent 8 Mile
from being Glitter 2.

8 Mile tells the story of Jimmy “Rabbit”
Smith Jr., a young white man living in an
impoverished and mostly black section of De-
troit. His life isn’t much better than his dirty and
dilapidated surroundings: After losing his job
and breaking up with his girlfriend, Rabbit
moves back into the trailer park with his dead-
beat mother, who is sleeping with one of his
former schoolmates.

Kim Basinger (who inexplicably decides to
use a drawling Southern accent for the role) is

. pretty much wasted as Rabbit’s mother. While

much screen time is given to shouting matches
between the two, their relationship never has
much depth and is sloppily resolved by the end.

Rabbit’s only escape from this harsh life
comes in the form of music, as the avid hip-hop
fan Rabbit is imbued with amazing freestyle rap
abilities. The role’s obviously not much of a
stretch for Eminem, who is actually able to be a
convincing leading man. However, he never
really is given achange to truly actin the movie,
as most of the drama is contained only in the
performance scenes, which come to Eminem
naturally, for obvious reasons.

Despite encouragement from his friends
(most notably “Future”, played by Mekhi
Phifer, a fine actor who is given little to work

Icelandic Sigur Ros brings
nigh art to new album, ( )

By Anpy HEsTon
Staff Writer

As far as I know, Sigur Ros’ ( ) is the first
album in the history of rock and roll to have a
completely unpronounceable title. _ There’s
Frank Zappa’s Apostrophe, of course, but at
least that has a verbal antecedent, and a pronun-
ciation. Sigur Ros’ ( ) isn’t so convenient. It’s
more an accidental work of art, one that could
have easily been made by the proverbial mon-
key at the typewriter. Is it a broken circle? A
comment on the emptiness of pictorial lan-
guage? A criticism of the parenthetical nature
of all human existence?

To all three, I shrug my shoulders and look
bewildered. No clue.

That’s the thing about this album. You doa
lot of shoulder shrugging and looking bewil-
dered, at least when you’ re trying to write or talk
about it. No pronunciation for the title, a band
name that’s hard to say for us non-Icelanders,
not to mention an almost complete lack of
lyrics.

Of course, even when Jon Thor Birigisson
(take that spell-check) does sing what can only
appear to be words, they’re about a fraction
English (or they sound that way, anyway), a
good part Icelandic (or they sound that way,
anyway), and a healthy dose of utter gibberish
(this one I’m sure about).. Did I mention yet that
all eight songs are untitled? Or that the so called
“liner notes” are nine blank pages? Welcome to
music critic hell.

If() is hell to write about (even just typing the
name is kind of obnoxious), then it is nothing
short of heaven to listen to. These are HUGE
songs: long, dramatic, dense, cinematic, and

nition of gorgeousness in music and jack it up a
couple notches.

These songs SOUND like hymns, or at least
how hymns ought 'to sound. They’re elegies,
requiems, whatever classical term connotes
extreme beauty and emotion. It’s overwhelm-
ing. I give it five years before they’re using

these songs in Icelandic churches, and express ©

my sincere hope the US will be culturally aware
enough to follow suit.

You want descriptions? Try the cleverly
titled “Track Four.” An orchestral drum line,
reverby guitar (well, quite a few reverby gui-
tars, all playing a great melody), a beautiful
fragile falsetto singing complete gibberish in
the most beautiful and meaningful way you’ ve
ever heard...imagine “Godspeed You Black
Emperor!,” only less artsy and less political.
Sigur Ros swing from your heartstrings.

I can’t remember how a single song on this
album goes, but that’s not the point here. You
won’t hum along. You won’t tap your toe or
nod your head. The musical effect is akin to
seeing the Mormon Tabernacle choir backed by
angels with their harps set on full revelry: you
may not remember what the song is, but you’ ll
remember how you feel listening to it.

Some may accuse Sigur Ros of being mean-
dering, unfocused, and completely unable to
write a song. But these aren’t songs, they’re
compositions.
Naysayers can
make all the
complaints they
want. Ill just
put () in my ste-
reo, sit back, and
listen to the

simply gorgeous, And whenI say gorgeous, it’s | sound of
heroic understatement. Take your current defi- heaven.
#1 Spring Break Vacations! MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS
110% Best Prices! NEEDED.

Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,
Florida, Texas.
Book Now and Receive
Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

Earn up to $150-$450/Day!
No experience necessary |
CALL NOW FOR
IMMEDIATE EXPOSURE

a 1-800-814-0277 sf

x1408

volving the astonishingly dex-

Eminem’s drama 8 Mile uneven but still worth watching

with here), at the beginning of the film Rabbit
chokes on stage at a freestyle rap competition,
and is continually humiliated by the rival hip
hop gang “Free World.” Rab-
bit must, Rocky-like, try to
overcome these negative sur-
roundings and prove himself
as a performer.

The numerous scenes in-

terous humorous rapping, full
of quite humorous schoolyard
style insults, are the most inter-
esting scenes in the entire film.
So interesting in fact, that they
point out the overall blandness
of the rest of the storyline.
The problem is that there is
little suspense or drama in the
actual storyline, except when
Rabbit must face off against
rival rappers. Also, poorly
developed characters such as the suspicious
love interest Alex (Brittany Murphy) only bore
the audience as we wait for another rap scene.
But an important positive aspect of 8 Mile is
its theme of rising out of urban poverty. Rabbit
slowly recognizes that he and his friends are
doomed to remain poor and unsuccessful as

The Simpsons

By Linpy Batpwin
Arts and Living Editor

Wonder of wonders, it turns out that The
Simpsons is a legitimate academic pursuit! At
least, the Davidson math department thinks so.
For those of you who missed out on the “Math
in The Simpsons’ lecture, there are people who
catalogue every equation and mathematical ref-
erence in the series, and use the clips to teach
math-phobic students.

Since watching The Simpsons has now been
legitimized by actual PhD-holding educators,
we’rerunning another quiz on America’s favor-
ite animated family. Once again, no partial
credit (although there are 2 hidden bonus
points!).

Level 1 — 1 point each

a. What family lives next door to the
Simpsons?

b. Who owns the Nuclear Power Plant?

c. Who is the assistant to the owner of the
Nuclear Power Plant?

d. Where does Apu work?

Level 2 — 2 points each

a. Where is Groundskeeper Willie from?

b. What is the name of Lisa’s teacher?

c. Who might youremember from such films
as Today we Kill, Tomorrow we Die and Gladys,
the Groovy Mule?

d. What two aliens appear in every Simpsons
Halloween episode?

Level 3 —3 points each

a. What kind of business does Homer’s half-
brother own (before Homer drives the company
to financial ruin)?

b. What does the card Lisa gives to Ralph on
Valentine’s Day say?

c. What was the name of Homer’s barber-

long as they refuse to accept realistic goals.
They dream of getting million dollar record
contracts, but can’t even hold a steady job. He
quickly sees through >
false hopes such as Wink
(Eugene Byrd), who tries
to convince Rabbit that
he can help him get his
music career started.

The film suggests that
one cannot overcome
poverty through outside
help or grandiose
schemes, but must indi-
vidually work to im-
prove your immediate
surroundings. This way
this theme and its link to
Rabbit’ s development as
a character are resolved
at the film’s end provides
a satisfying and unex-
pected conclusion, which is more than can be
said for most Hollywood films.

However, the original ending alone can’t
save the movie. 8 Mile can be recommended for
its intriguing portrayal of hip hop culture and
urban America, but don’t expect great art such
as Hanson’s previous work.

quiz returns!

shop quartet?
d. What is the occupation of Krusty’s father?

Level 4— 4 points each

a. What is the name of Lisa’s beloved
substitute teacher in “Lisa’s Substitute”?

b. Who was Santa’s Little Helper’s girl-
friend in “Two Dozen and One Greyhounds”?

c. Name the vineyard Bart stays at in “The
Crepes of Wrath.”

d. What was the original name of town
founder Jebediah Springfield?

By now, you’re probably complaining that
no one on this planet could possibly answer the
Level 4 questions. Whiner. Bite the bullet and
calculate your pitiful score already. The maxi-
mum is 40 (42 if you count the hidden bonus);
if you scored above 30 I’d say you did pretty
well.

‘proysunidg suey (p ‘uosteypy neayeyD
(9 "}s9}s¥,J 9U) S.sYS (q "WoNssIog I (ep
‘Iqqey (p ‘sdreyg g oY (9 .“nOX
asSOOY-00Y9-O0YD J,, (q “Aueduios mea (e¢g
“Suey pure sopoy (Pp “aunjQoW
AOI] (9 “JOAOOH SST (Q (,{UM0}[TY YUON,,
ples noA jt syutod snuog Z) puepoos (ez
Ue -AIMY OL (P “ssouprUrg “IY]
(9 ‘suing “sj (q “Ajrurey ssopuepy oy, (e]

ibiza w.studentexpre pre.

***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South ag
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acapuico, Florida & Mardigras.
- TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+.
1 888 THINK SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626)
Terrr Lt Ter ee Pee | * www.springbreakdiscounts.com: *##+ «+89 <

