By Ros He mprick

| spurs discussion at BSC
Students hesitant to practice what they support

Staff Writer

tinued to examine the school’s oft-criticized
concept of diversity by taking part in a group
discussion of the controversial subject of in-
tercultural dating. The meeting took place at

This weekend, Davidson students con-

A proud of Devidied wills bleu ots the puacute gethoot ec eae
Americas in Fort Benning, GA, this weekend. For more information, please
ee

James Baldwin scholar : presents film, speech
Manze Wala, Aten rotor Acs Aerie Ste an ng

at Duke University, will be showing a short.film and speaking on Wes
November 20 at 4pan.in the Sloan Masie Building, Rm 100. The im s “James ce

RLO, from page 1

on campus.

Senators argued that having a lottery night
for seniors, similar to lottery night for regular
dorms, would be a simpler and more satisfying
way for rising seniors to pick their Martin
Court apartment. Although this would be more
work for RLO staff, and the benefits might not
in reality be better for the majority of students,
the perceived benefit would be that students
would be at least partly responsible for their
own choice of housing in the coming year.

Marsicano and Urban asked if the problems
the student body had with the Martin Court
lottery system arose more from a lack of trust
in the RLO staff than the lack of perceived

. “fairness” in the system. Senators answered
back that it is RLO’s job to work for the
students and that the extra work that might be
involved in having a lottery night for Martin
Court should be done to satisfy students, even
if the actual benefits of having a “pure” lottery
are not quantifiably better.

At last week’s meeting, Francis shared an
email that she had received from Marsicano

_ earlier that day. Marsicano wrote, “After last
week’s conversations, we [RLO] are trying to
take very seriously the point that some students
would prefer a lottery more nearly like the
upper-class residence hall lottery, even though
that would not increase their chances of getting
one of their choices as an apartment.”

In response to SGA senators’ discussions
both at the meeting and afterward, Marsicano
and other staff members in RLO have begun to
determine the ways that the regular housing
lottery and the Martin Court lottery would be
alike or different should a “pure” lottery be
implemented. Marsicano explains that after

these preliminary plans are made, RLO “will
make this information available for students to
give us their feedback. [They] plan to start with
the SGA representatives who are currently jun-
iors since that class is the one most directly
affected by RLO’s decision.”

Francis explained, “Since there has been so

the BSC house on Sunday evening and fea-
tured Davidson
graduate Allen Lee
°01 as the group fa-
cilitator. ;
Lee, who has
previously led other
discussions at the
BSC, conducted the
discussion by posing
aset of questions first
to the women in the
group and then to the
men. The questions
dealt with issues such as whether or not group
members were opposed to the idea of intercul-
tural dating in general, whether they would
personally choose to have an intercultural
relationship, and which cultural differences
would be the hardest to overcome. Lee defined
“culture” as not merely terms of race, but also
religion, class, ethnicity, and political views.
The crowd was unanimous in its support
of intercultural relationships, but there was
some disunity in its consensus on whether or
not each of them would personally pursue
such a relationship. Group members cited

- religious and political differences as the two

main potential barriers to cross-cultural rela-
tionships.

One participant echoed this sentiment,
saying that while a person’s race cannot be

much studentconcern expressed over the Mar-
tin Court lottery process, I think that we need
to move in the direction of a more standard
lottery. I feel that the current system generally
has been efficient, but it’s obvious that stu-
dents desire more control over the actual apart-
ment selection.”

“I'm not saying that I
wouldn't date a black girl,
but it would be harder to
make that connection here.”
- Caucasian male

self-determined, that person’s religion and po-
litical views say a lot about his or her morals,
beliefs, and personality, all of which could be
considered important points of unity in any rela-
tionship.

Family expectations were cited as another
potential obstacle to intercultural dating. “I might
not have a problem dating someone outside my
race,” said one attendee, “but I know that my
family might not
be comfortable
with it, and I have
to take that into
consideration.”

Students
credited the gen-
eral lack of diver-
sity on campus as
a factor in their
tendencies to not
pursue partners
With different
backgrounds.

One Caucasian male in the group said,
“When I want to date someone, it’s usually
someone I hang out with a lot. At Davidson, a lot
of the-group I hang out with happens to be white.
I’m not saying that I wouldn’t date a black girl,
but it would be harder to make that connection
here.”

Lee’s final question to the group concerned
whether or not anyone in attendance had ever
been mistreated at Davidson because of a rela-
tionship, intercultural or not, by either a partner
or someone on the outside of the relationship.

Responded one participant, “Davidson is
just like the rest of the world; everyone’s got
something to say. You get to the point where you
have to tell everyone else, ‘I don’t care what you
think.’”

“It seems to me that a standard lottery for
senior apartments is entirely feasible. Although
there are more people within each group, there
are only 62 apartments to fill. Adam Sperling ’04
and I will continue to work with Dean Marsicano
and the rest of the residence life office staff in
order to devise an acceptable lottery procedure.”

Bear Rock Cafe Presents
Exciting New Menu!
Mountain-Stuffed Sandwiches © Green Mountain Salads
Mouth-Watering Baked Potatoes © Daily Soup Calendar
Breakfast Daily © Gourmet Coffee © Scrumptious Desserts
Full Catering Menu with Delivery Available
Great Mountain Lodge Atmosphere

www. bearrockfoods.com

y There's a bear in
your neighborhood

$2.00 off

Any Bear Rock Sandwich
BEAR'§'ROCK

Poninsals Village location saga Expires 1/31/03.
Not valid with any other offers.

Peninsula Village e
19400 Jetton ce
(704) 892-2012 fax (704) 892-2042

Mon.-Thur. 7am-8pm + Fri, 7am-9pm
Sat. 8am-9pm * Sun. 8am-Spm

Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner

