inte’ asia "tates

THE DAVIDSONIAN
eee - WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 6, 2002

Here we go, Wildcats, here we go!

By Erik EHINGER
Special Contributor

Fielding Division I athletic teams at a
school of only 1600 students is difficult,
and fielding teams that are competitive
and successful is ever tougher. Now
imagine trying to find support for those
teams from a student body notoriously
entrenched in the library.

The job of inciting the often stoic
Davidson population into a frenzy can
be a difficult one, but it is a challenge
undertaken selflessly throughout the
football and basketball seasons by our
cheerleaders.

For much of the squad, Davidson is
their first cheering experience—while
many of them have athletic backgrounds,
few were cheerleaders in high school.
Cheering at Davidson has instead been
an opportunity for former dancers and
gymnasts to continue doing what they
love while meeting new people and be-
ing involved in the college. Not all of
our cheerleaders are first-timers though,
and that mix of experience and fresh
enthusiasm makes fora dynamic team.
It could not be what it is, though, with-
out the leadership of junior captains
Elizabeth Spitz and Laurie Gomer.

Spitz began cheering at Davidson as a
freshman after some of the seniors on
the team approached her and asked her
to try out. Spitz, a lifelong gymnast, had
taken up cheerleading in high school
after the time commitment of gymnas-
tics became too much to handle, but she
hadn’t even considered continuing to
cheer in college. The adjustment wasn’t
difficult for her, because her team never

competed in high school, offering in-
stead arelaxed and fun atmosphere simi-
lar to what she has found here at David-
son.

Gomer, on the other hand, came to °

Davidson with 11 years of cheering ex-
perience and from a competitive high
school program that regularly partici-
pated in national competitions. Having
spent so long in a high-stress environ-
ment, Gomer decided she needed a break.
The draw to Davidson was initially the
academics, but being able to continue
cheering in a relaxed, comfortable envi-
ronment sealed the deal. The adjustment
was a little different for Gomer, because,
as she explained, “It was strange to be on
a squad with people who didn’t know
what ‘bottle rocket to free standing lib-
erty retake to heel stretch full down’
meant.”

Both girls bring very different back-
grounds to the table, but it is their vari-
ety of leadership that makes the squad at
Davidson unique. They are able to prac-
tice and perform in a comfortable envi-
ronment while still maintaining a com-
petitive edge.

Every member of the team agrees that
the best parts of being a cheerleader at
Davidson are the relaxed environment
and all of the friends they have made,
but success doesn’t come without hard
work.

One is left, then, with the perpetually
debated question of whether or not
cheerleading is a sport. Since I have
always wondered myself, I took this ar-
ticle as an opportunity to put my mind,
and perhaps those of my fellow students,
at ease by getting the answer straight

from the source.

As Spitz pointed out to me, the
cheerleading team practices three times
a week, lifts weights twice weekly, and
cheers at games which—especially dur-
ing basketball season, when there can be
as many as three in a week—is a daunt-
ing time commitment.

I suppose the answer lies in your defi-
nition of sport. As Gomer explained to
me, in her definition, “A sport consti-

Davidson’s cheerleading squad helps the crowd get into the game.

Photo by Sarah Davis

tutes athleticism as well as competi-
tion.” According to that definition, she
agrees that the Davidson squad is not a
sport, as they are not a competitive squad,
but she contends that what they do does
require a great deal of athleticism.

I suppose that, as a proponent of pure
sport for the sake of sport, I have to
agree that anything you do that requires
athleticism can be considered a sport.

see Cheerleading, page 9

Boys of summer: Davidson baseball swinging for the fence

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Writer

Hall of Famer Bill Veeck once said, “The
true harbinger of spring is not crocuses or
swallows returning to Capistrano, but the sound
of a bat on the ball.”

Indeed, the sound of batting practice has
been echoing around campus recently, signal-
ing that spring is here and the start of a new
baseball season is just around the corner. Hav-
ing narrowly missed back-to-back 20-win sea-
sons in 2001, a feat the team hasn’t accom-
plished since their 1993 and 1994 campaigns,
head coach Dick Cooke and his squad hope
that a trio of all-conference seniors and several
key newcomers will help Davidson become a
serious contender in the Southern Conference
this year.

“We have a really good nucleus of upper-
classmen at the plate and on the mound,”
Cooke said. “The veteran leadership on this

team is as good as any I’ve been around. That

will help develop our rookies, which will be a°

key to our season, as we possibly could have up

to four freshmen in the starting lineup.”
James Marino and Billy Ryan will captain

the 2002 edition of

Davidson baseball as the

Wildcats aim for post-

“The veteran lead-

comments Ryan.

Marino will assume duties as clean up hitter,
providing the protection that could result in a
huge year for Frend, who is already established
as one of the premier hitters in Davidson his-

tory. :
With the loss of
Academic All-Ameri-

season play after a dis- can Wes Self and tal-
appointing 10th place . . . ented hurlers Jeremiah
finishkeptthe team from er. ship on this team 1S Parvin and Ryan
the SoCon tournament ’ Stroker, the Wildcats
last year. . as § ood as any I ve need to fill a void in
i 9 i i a
Offensively, the team been around. the pitching depart
will be led by preseason ment. The starting ro-
camaner a Se dee om - head coach Dick Cooke pe will a pri-
ear, Tim Frend, who marily of veteran
will bat in the three spot ballplayers, but the top

behind leadoff hitter Jack Purcell and promis-
ing freshman Eli Benefield. “We’ve got our
five best hitters back as seniors this year, and I
think we’ ve got more depth than we expected,”

five candidates only have a combined 23 starts
between them, 15 of those by senior Mark
Wells, who will likely be ‘the number one
starter.

“The good thing is that we’ve got a lot of
options on the mound this year,” notes Ryan. “I
think we’ ve got a good number of guys who
will help us out, and give us some flexibility on
conference weekends.”

On the defensive side of the ball, the David-
son nine look solid, and should provide excel-
lent defense for the relatively inexperienced
crop of pitchers. Purcell will man the hot
corner, as he takes over for the departed all-
conference third sacker, Cassidy Lundin.

With the move of Purcell from: second to
third, Benefield will be the likely replacement
at the keystone sack. Joining Benefield to
complete the double-play combination will be
junior D.J. Dailey, a sure-handed shortstop
who has started-since his freshman year.

At first, Cooke has yet to degide on starter,
but has a nice array in juniors. Mark Williams
and Matt Young and freshman Michael Muniz
and Justin Hartanov. Roaming the outfield for

see Baseball, page 9

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“We are what we repeatedly do.
Excellence, then, is not an act, but a

habit.”

-Aristotle

|

THE WEEK AHEAD

BASEBALL MEN’s TENNIS
Feb. 12. Wake Forest 3:00 Feb.9 Liberty 10:00 -
Feb. 10 @ South Carolina 9:00
MEn’s BASKETBALL
Feb. 9 @ East Tennessee State 4:00 Women’s TENNIS
Feb. 13 Georgia Southern 7:00 Feb. 7 UNC Asheville 3:00
Feb. 9 Liberty 3:00
Women’s BASKETBALL Feb.13. High Point 3:00
Feb. 9 Appalachian State 3:00
Feb. 11 @ Wofford 7:00 INDOOR TRACK

WRESTLING

Feb. 8 @ The Citadel 2:00

Feb. 8 @ Carolina Fast Times, Chapel Hill
