ta

For students, the Union Cafe is the most popular place on
campus for quick snacks. Wait a second, it’s the only place on
campus for quick snacks.

That’s why it is important
for the Cafe to be in touch with
students’ likes and dislikes
when it comes to food and
beverage.

The Cafe opened perma-
nently at the beginning of the
school year, and since then has undergone numerous tweaks
‘—many in response to student feedback. We’d like to offer a
few more suggestions, and invite readers to e-mail us with any.
ideas we didn’t mention.

+As much as we’d all like to see Chick-Fil-A or Subway
opened up in the Union, it’s not likely to happen. The school
is too small and too private, and insists on keeping all its
services in-house. But adding a few more items to the current
daily menu, such as chicken nuggets, meatball subs and
Italian sausage grinders would be nice. Some items that are
served occasionally as specials should be offered everyday.

+Offer better, fresher fruit.

+Melt the cheese on sandwiches; don’t just slap it on there.

+Bring back the pizza bagels, which vanished along with
the Outpost after last year. Those things were good. ;

+Offer more ice cream options. Ben & Jerry’s is good, but
soft serve and frozen yogurt options would be even better. If
we have a machine in Commons, wouldn’t it be possible to
add one to the Cafe?

+Offer more options of soda, such as Cheerwine and Sun
Drop, two Carolina classics.

+Open earlier on Saturdays and Sundays for the early risers
among us.

+Further expand the hours during which students can use
meal plans so we don’t have to wait in huge lines during rush
hours. Also, it would give students an ability to use a meal
plan when they have a conflict with normal meal hours.

+Reduce refill prices from $1 to 50 cents. Right now, it
costs the same amount to buy a new drink as it does to refill
one, so people have no incentive to re-use their cups. Throw-
ing them away is bad for the environment and obviously, it’s
wasteful.

+Hire more employees like Shane and Rosemary, friendly
folks who make the Café experience more enjoyable.

+Tell employees not to fight while on the job.

What suggestions do you have for the Union Cafe? E-mail
us at davidsonian@davidson.edu and we’ll print your re-
sponses next week.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Timothy Cook Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Emily Drew (Assistant)

Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh .. Gavin Weber
Sports Editor
~ Caroline Hauser
‘Photography Editors
_ Erin Berry, Matt Whited

Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore' Gregg Wallace
ms _ Circulation Manager
"Maggie Kozicharow

http://www.da

du/david:

ee?

by WILEY

WANE INE SACRIFICED
JOO WANN OF OUR
CONSTITUTIONAL

RIGUTL SINCE

Vs OUR MOST PRECIOUS RIGLT,
FREEDOM OF SPEECH, GINEN
WIN To SELE-CENGORANP IN
FERR OF REPRIOKIS FoR NoT
TONING TE LING oF
PXPERBOLIC PATRIOTISM?

[ccc arc come DONT WERRY,,, THE

OF THE (64uEs Ff CPVERNNEN:
WE COULD TALK (ET Ob KNON WIEN
AZo ToVAX JS ITS OK B CRITICIZE
TREN AGAIN...

Women’s Month

In case no one has ever asked you this before, are you a
virgin or a whore? Boys you can answer too—just use your
imaginations.

You answered neither, right? It’s okay if you’re a virgin,
but let’s assume that’s not the full extent of your identity. So
Pil ask it differently: Are you a good wife and mother (if
you’re a guy, you can read “boy-you-could-take-home-to-
mom’) or are you a mysterious
and exciting lover?

Chances are you are both. ‘And
if you plan to marry a woman, you
probably want to marry a woman
who is both. So why, if we want to
be whole people and want whole
people in our lives, do we restrict
each other and ourselves to this
short list of roles?

I know that I define myself
against other women, (i.e. she’s a slut, I’m an angel) or I
define myself by some ideal that I’ve created: What my
family wants, what my boyfriend wants or the person I’ve
always seen myself as. I find myself saying things like, “I’m
not a math person.” Or, “I am a spontaneous person.”

But if I want to be myself, I have to let go of these ideas.
Because while there’s nothing wrong with being a spontane-
ous person, there is something wrong with letting that define
my every action until I am no longer making a choice based
on the situation, but based on an imagined identity. ©

_ Even when we are alone, we hold on to these identities like
a lifeline. Are you reading this letter believing that you’re a
feminist, anti-feminist, atheist or meathead, and responding
accordingly? Does your definition of yourself limit how you
understand these words? Don’t roll your eyes. This isn’t
metafiction; this is Women’s Month!

I overheard a woman say to a man that she was interested
in, “I hate feminists.” I was shocked. Because what I heard
was, “I am the kind of person who would sell myself short to
get with you.” Aaaaaah! Noooooo!

There are so many tragedies there. Not only was she selling
herself short for this man’s attention, but she was also selling
the man short too. She was telling him what to want—a weak
woman. That’s not what men want. Now 35 years after the
civil rights movement, that’s probably not even n What most
guys think they want. :

She was also misinterpreting feminism to the Nth degree.
Since feminist movements began, people have tried to vilify
or ridicule feminists, tried to steal their power and undermine
their message because change is scary and feminists want
change. But the change that feminists want is not to blow men
off the face of the earth or to start having only girl babies made
from the fusion of two eggs.

Contrary to popular belief, women who hate men aren’t
feminists! They may be angry, upset, misguided; they may
use the name of feminism in vain. But they are not feminists.

You. can recognize real feminism because it is fot angry;
it’s proactive. Feminism is a call to all people, men and |
women, to consider the implications of everything we say and
everything we do.

Feminism is about identity and about loving people as
whole people, letting people out of restrictive roles and
allowing them to make real decisions and forge real relation-
ships. Yes, it is safer not to have to make any decisions and let
precedent say what it means to be a girl and what it means to
be a boy. But do we want to keep repeating the same mistakes
over and over again, just because we know what they are?

Iencountered a notepad the other day, one of those adorable
ones with the little sayings on it that read, “I love PMS, it’s the
only time of the month I can be myself.” What? Okay, it was
funny, but it speaks to some terrible truths about the ways we
mythologize women.

Why do I have to choose between being a passive-aggres-
sive doormat and being a nagging psycho-bitch? I don’t want ~
to. I refuse! From now on, feminine or not, pre-menstrual or
not, I will be honest! And happy!!!

Live deliberately this Women’s Month. Everything we say
redefines who we are, and what our culture is. One of the
worst myths of our society is that we are victims of a culture.
That’s a lie. We are the culture.

Feminism is more about generosity than anything else. Be
generous with yourself this Women’s Month. Create the
culture in which you want to live.

Yves Corbiere ‘02

Apology

On Jan. 27, 2001, [called into the now infamous first airing
of “The Black Man and Mexican” radio show impersonating
a fellow student. While on the air, I made several inappropri-
ate comments concerning the relationship this student has
with his girlfriend. To the both of them and to my fellow
Davidson students, I apologize sincerely and wholeheartedly.
My actions were grossly unacceptable, unprovoked and went
against the ideals of community at Davidson, which set our
school apart from all others.

Since I made those comments, seeing how they hurt these
two students and seeing how the entire campus reacted, I have
learned to be more considerate of others and that my choices
can severely affect other people. What I did does not belong
at Davidson, or anywhere else for that matter. I am so sorry
for publicly attacking you.

With much sincerity and remorse,
Jason Z. Blanford ‘05

