Staff Editorial

There was an interesting.article in Tuesday’s New York Times
about minorities and American colleges, certainly a major topic
here at Davidson.

Efforts to recruit minority students over the last several decades

_are paying off, as many campuses are more diverse than ever, the
article said. Now, colleges are aiming toward a broader goal—

building better relationships among racial and ethnic groups .

within their student bodies. They’re realizing that diversity is
about more than numbers.

An event on Sunday night suggests that some on our campus
are beginning to understand that point.

The BSC hosted a forum on intercultural dating, moderated by

' Allen Lee ’01. Students discussed a variety of topics, centering
onhow race and ethnicity affect the relationships we pursue dur-
ing our college careers.

Bringing minority students to a campus doesn’t qualify as di-
versity. Colleges also must create an environment in which di-
verse people can interact and learn from one another.

Those who participated in the forum realize that. Let’s hope
they’ re not the only ones.

2 RR

This Quiz Bowl thing is really catching on.

The campus-wide tournament, the first of its kind at Davidson -

in several years, isin full swing, with matches taking place nearly
every night. Your friendly Davidsonian staff took its first loss
Monday night, but we’ re not done yet, and neither are most of the
other teams trying to get to the championship round.

The tournament isn’t nearly over (it won’t end until Decem-
ber), but it already appears to be a smashing success. So why not
make it a regular event?

‘Let’s have one of these deals once every semester. It doesn’t
cost much money, it brings people together and it’s good, friendly
competition.

‘Good luck to the teams still alive in the tournament, and here’s
hoping those who aren’t get another chance to hit the buzzers
again soon. '

2 KKK

It’s registration season again, and the WebTree system is
back in the spotlight.

Without question, registering online is much more convenient
and efficient than the old way, which required pencils and
Scantron sheets.

But do we have to keep using those confusing tree formats to
rank our course preferences? We’ re not experts on course regis-
tration systems by any stretch, but isn’t there an easier option
those tree flow charts?

By the way, you’ ve got until midnight to finish filling out those
trees.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Emily Drew’ Caroline Hauser
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
Richard Connolly Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa
Web Editor
Anders Langworthy

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

“by WILEY

OK..IN CEE THERE NRE ANY NORE
HellQPPe LTERMIAS IN RERE,
THINKING OUTSIDE THE BOX
% NST AN EXPRESSION...

os é
Qe :
8 :
‘
WAC L000 6404, TUR. ton OST BH WWERSHL. PRES SHOIRTE WHA 3

Thanks for explaining
my political views

I just wanted to extend my thanks to Travis Lee for his com-
ments in last week’s lead story (“Poll Finds Students Lean Left,”
Nov. 5).

Until I read Mr. Lee’s statement concerning students’ desire to
be “fashionably liberal,” I had always thought my liberalism
stemmed from strong personal convictions for civil rights, social
and economic justice, anda commitmentto the First Amendment.

Afterreading Mr. Lee’s comments, however, I now understand
that my liberalism has nothing to do with this; rather it stems sim-
ply from my desire to be liked. I hope others who felt as I did can
now understand their political views more correctly as a result of
Mr. Lee’s wise analysis.

Fashionably, ,
Tom Anstrom ‘04

Can someone please
fix those nets?

Since two work orders placed more than two months ago are
not enough to get something done, I-want to let everyone know
what’s wrong and what needs to be fixed.

The chain nets on the West basketball court have been com-
pletely broken since the beginning of the semester. Besides being
a nuisance, they are hazardous due to the sharp and rusty ends of
the drooping metal chains.

Why does the maintenance staff ignore a long-time problem,
especially when the problem is repeatedly reported to them (the
same problem happened at the end of last year, too? Please, some-

one do something about these nets.

Roland F. Foss ‘05

When did having
fun go out of style?

Something is plaguing me. I realize that much of our student
body is satisfied with life at our school, but I believe that many
students want the old familiar and fun school.

The Davidson College to which I applied is now some yuppy
Amherst wannabe (and this isn’t a North/South issue) rather than .
the life-source that it once was. I hate to complain, because I am
fortunate to be here, but some aspects of our school need to
change.

‘ Patterson Court should not walk on eggshells in order to ap-
pease those who complain of noise levels or take offense to party
themes. The majority of our campus is affiliated with the Court
and should not be victim to its recent transformations.

Whatever happened to those random weekday nights of fabu-
lous debauchery that would eventually dwindle at dawn? When
did we resort to accepting the vices of academic servitude rather
than rebelling against them? When did we become so scared?

In truth, Patterson Court is a wonderful establishment that
encourages students to interact with each other. The Court spon-
sors community service events, forums and other meaningful
activities, in addition to the ever-abra-
sive evening fun.

It also prevents drunk driving.
Shouldn’t we be comforted knowing
that our friends and classmates are
safely walking home? Isn’t it pretty
selfish to be aggravated by those who
are too loud? And if they are too loud,
why not buy earplugs?

The average eating-house or fraternity member pays between
$800 and $1,200 per semester. They are paying dues to be a
member of ahouse they cannot even use freely. Impromptus have
disappeared. I haven’t the faintest idea as to where the jolly Fri-
day Afternoon Club wandered.

Court activities are sometimes trivial and time-consuming
pastimes that some may condemn as spiritually and mentally
vacant. But if we log in five to seven hours a. day, shouldn’t we
reward ourselves with mindless revelry? Shouldn’t we pursue
mysteries of Patterson Court rather than succumb to the dogged
verses of electronic reserve?

Alcohol consumption (while unhealthy) is not 4sin, making a
fool of one’s self will not brand you with that evil scarlet letter and
dancing on atableis, in fact, an aerobic exercise. This school used
to be electrifying. People were drawn to the subtle noises that
came from the Court. Now, those same people will not even ven-
ture down the hill because they fear awakening someone or being
blamed for something they didn’t do.

We are adults, and we should not concede to the malaise that
has recently plagued our school.

Cannon Hodge ‘04

We welcome
letters to the editors.

_ We edit for content,
brevity and grammar.

Please e-mail contributions
of less than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu

and now ADOSA FILOSA
{ WITH LAURA FILOSA

I+ still is.

OBLY half
he campus
Knows .

Vat as

4c ed
