THe DavIpsONIAN |

from Court, page 1

leaders to probe their own organizations to
seek those responsible and encourage them to
confess. In a follow-up letter to the meeting,
Vagt thanked PCC leaders for their dedica-
tion, and stated the status of the situation.
Wrote Vagt: “I am prepared to defend
without ceasing your right as students to
learn, and also to grow, to have fun, and even
to make mistakes. However, none of us can
defend - or even tolerate - the coritinued
willful abuse of the fundamental principles of
human civility such as we experienced again
this weekend with the forced entry and thefts
onthe Court, especially asit follows so closely
on the heels of the events of mid-week. ...

What has transpired Swansbrough °03
demands a re- said, “conclusions
sponse, and I would u“ to the investigation
prefer that such re- They even offered to might be made by
sponse originate ° : the end of next
with you.” fixourbrokencabinet, |, >
Accordingly, — but Physical Planthad School officials
Vagt delivered an declined to provide

ultimatum, stating
that PCC houses
had until Thursday,
Feb. 21 to uncover
those responsible
for “violations of
the Honor Code.”
He also asked house presidents to work
toward devising a program that would “change
this pattern of behavior,” citing the insight
provided in the Monday Feb. 18 PCC meet-
ing as “significant progress in that direction.”
Finally, Vagt stressed the error of condon-
ing any criminal act, saying that those who
possess knowledge of the perpetrators yet
refuse to present it are “just as guilty of an
assault on the integrity of our community as
those who stole 13 cases of beer from Rusk.”

_ organizations on the Court unless those ac-

already repaired it.”

- Alyssa Sinclair ’03

The President threatened to shut down all

countable stepped forward.

In response to these actions and more, four
individuals eventually assumed responsibil-
ity for the criminal acts of the 14. Judgments
into possible repercussions have progressed
slowly since then. .

According to Associate Dean of Students
and Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano, the confessional statements of
the four individuals and her report of inter-
views with them have been “forwarded to the
Dean of Students Office for review and pos-
sible charges under the Code of Responsibil-
ity or Honor Code.”

Sigma Phi Epsilon President Jimmy

the names of those
guilty, noting their
rights to confiden-
tiality.

Rusk President
Alyssa Sinclair ’03
reported that three more individuals con-
fessed Tuesday evening to the theft of beer
from her house on Feb. 16. “We got a swift
response,” she said. “I think Patterson Court
did a good job on coming together and saying
that we won’t tolerate this blatant disregard
for the Honor Code anymore.”

Sinclair noted that the offenders have been
“very cooperative and apologetic. They even
offered to fix our broken cabinet, but Physi-
cal Plant had already repaired it.”

Finally, Marsicano noted that another three

Vv)
a.
Ce
O
LJ
Lu
ww
a
Lu!
Q.

How far are you willing to go
to make a difference?

Check out the Peace Corps on campus
this spring, sign up for an interview and
discover why it’s still the toughest
job you'll ever love!

Wednesday, March 20th

PEACE CORPS INTERVIEWS*
Knobloch Campus Center

*Sian up NOW For AN INTERVIEW IN THE
CAREER SERVICE CENTER

PEACE CORPS
INFORMATIONAL SESSIONS

Alvarez Union, Room 313

Alvarez Union, Room 408A

Contact recruiter Sherlene McCarther at
(800) 424-8580 or smccarther@peacecorps.gov
for more information.

2:30 p.m.

7 p.m.

The Peace Corps
(800) 424-8580
www.peacecorps.gov

Vandals to be reviewed under Honor Code

individuals have confessed to damaging the
kitchen door and doorframe in Warner Hall
on Saturday. ,

All perpetrators’ statements have been for-
warded to the Dean of Students Office for
review of charges under the Code of Respon-
sibility or Honor Code.

In another letter to house presidents, Vagt
thanked Court leaders for their support in
urging guilty parties to come forward: “I
believe that the people have come forward
due, in large measure, to your leadership and
effort; and I would ask you to accept my
thanks.”

He also offered his assistance in facing the
broader challenge of “changing the attitude”
that bred such acts of blatant disrespect on the
Court. Certainly, such acts have come as a
shock.to many on campus who abide by the
Honor Code and Code of Responsibility both
in and out of the classroom.

“People must honor their responsibility to
act appropriately, and that will only happen if
there is a concerted effort,” said Vagt. Final
decisions on punishment for the offenders
may not materialize until after spring break.

News Editor Colin Eagan contributed to
this article.

Butterfly to visit campus

By Kevin JAMES
Special Contributor

Environmental activist Julia Butterfly will
speak this Thursday at 8 p.m in Chambers
Gallery thanks to a collaborative effort be-
tween the Environmental Action Coalition,
Speakers Committee, the Service Office, and
the Programs for the Theological Explora-
tion of Vocation. The public lecture will be
followed by a book signing.

Butterfly became famous in the late ‘90s
for her 738 day stay iran ancient Redwood to
bring public attention to the devastating ef-
fects of deforestation on the Redwood eco-
system. Her stay in the tree prompted its
protection and the protection of an additional
three-acre buffer zone. Her effort brought
public attention to the fact that only 3% of the

ancient redwood forests remain.

Her book The Legacy of Luna describes her
experience in the tree, ranging from harass-
ment by logging company helicopters to per-
sonal discovery.

Following hertime in Luna, Butterfly joined
with fellow activists to form the Circle of Life
foundation. This organization inspires, sup-
ports, and networks individuals, organiza-
tions, and communities to create environ-
mental solutions based on respect for all life.

Through this group Butterfly works to edu-
cate citizens on environmental problems and
the roles they can play in solving problems.

This group also provides a means for But-
terfly to help legislators interested in promot-
ing positive environmental legislation.

For more information visit www.circleoflife
foundation.org.

ast Burritos

Omelets
Pancakes

=~, Wa -

\

104 $.Main St. Davidsen, NC

Eat-in Take-out

