with David Crow

Before George W. Bush took office, many people worried
about his foreign policy abilities given that he hardly knew the
difference between Saddam Hussein and King Hussein.

Now, no one can stop Bush from talking about Iraq and
Saddam, while he has virtually ignored our faltering economy at
home.

Bush has used the “Wag the Dog” strategy over the past
several months to keep our attention on imminent war and off the
current economic recession. While the Republicans hope this
strategy will pull them through the upcoming midterm elections,
history proves it will be little help to the President in the long run.

Quite simply, Bush doesn’t know how to fix the economy, and
he doesn’t want to draw our attention to the fact that things started
heading south right about the time he took office.

So far, Bush’s economic policy has been pretty laissez-fair in
nature. Just cut taxes in the future, and concentrate those tax cuts
on the wealthiest Americans. That’s about all that Bush thinks
the government can and should do.

Well, Mr. President, I’m afraid most Americans would beg to
differ. A recent New York Times/CBS poll finds that 69% of
Americans feel the President should be paying more attention to

sonomy, n not a is the real issue for Bush | Dost Cards

the economy. Furthermore, only 13% of Americans feel that the

economy is getting better, while 39% feel things are still getting ©

worse.

Obviously, Bush’s tax cuts and cheerleading have not been
much help.

The fact is, Americans are probably right to worry more about
the economy right now. Many believe that either they or a family
member will be jobless within a year. Unfortunately, the facts
seem to support this fear.

The number of people working as a proportion of the working-
age population has fallen faster and for a longer period of time
than in any other postwar recession.

So, just what should the President do?

First, how about increasing unemployment benefits? Given
the increasing rate of unemployment, extending benefits to those
who lose their jobs would help millions of Americans in need of
health care and basic necessities.

This solution will also be less of a long-term burden than tax
cuts, given that government spending would decrease as unem-
ployment rates fall.

Second, rescind the tax cuts for the rich. The immediate effects
of the poor economy on the wealthiest Americans are not nearly
as severe as the affects on the lower and middle classes. If the
disproportionately large tax cuts for thé rich were funneled to the
lower and middle classes, more people would have more dispos-
able income to spend, resulting in an economic boost.

Bush’s strategy of diverting attention from the economy may
help him for now. But, like his father, he will eventually have to
face the consequences of ignoring what the American people
care most about.

DSONIAN PERSPECTIVES

Students who left dead goldfish outside 3rd Rich doors two weeks ago have drawn fire
from the Dean of Students, faculty and some in SGA. Aren't there bigger fish to fry?

Goldfish “Prank” Immature

“The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be
Judged by the way its animals are treated.”

- Mahatma Gandhi

Lucky for our nation that last week’s goldfish scandal will not
determine the state of American ethics.

By now the entire school has heard of freshman flickerball’s
latest victims: 30 goldfish bought at a Wal-Mart for the sole
purpose of a college prank.

However, you don’t need to ask if Wal-Mart was planning on
killing the fish within three days. That is insignificant. What
needs to be addressed are the appropriate sanctions that should
be handed to those involved and the reaction we should have as
college students to such a “prank.”

Section III of the Code of Responsibility states, “Students are

expected to develop social skills and relations which are mutu-
ally beneficial and which lead to personal maturity.”

Clearly those involved ignored this simple sentence in our
vital Code. What level of maturity can be accommodated to those
who set out on “Operation 3" Rich Sleeps with the Fishes?”

Obviously, a violation of the Code of Responsibility should
result in the appropriate disciplinary action. But is a standard
written warning stating that such action will cease enough?
Hardly so.

This was not an accidental or indirect act. It was aphenecieied

| killed Goldfish as a child

I saw Pinocchio for the first time when I was about five years
old. Loved it. What boy my age wouldn’t?

. Thecraftsman, Geppeto, had a goldfish named Cleo. For some
reason, I liked that fish from the beginning. It made me want a
goldfish of my own. My very own Cleo, just like in the movie.

My parents saw this as an opportunity to stop me from whining
for a puppy. We didn’t have a yard big enough for a dog at the
‘time. However, I did have a nightstand with just enough room
for a fishbowl.

Sometime around 1985, Cleo became my first pet, and a
member of my family.

He may have lasted a week. But that’s doubtful.

Funny thing about goldfish — they don’t stop eating when
they’re full. A goldfish will eat itself to death if you let it.

- Obviously not one of God’s smarter creations.
Next toahungry cat, the most dangerous companion a goldfish

by Amee Patel ‘O06

slaughter with no just cause but preserving pride after losing a
flickerball game.

The Code of Disciplinary Actions lists several sanctions that
seem fitting for this violation. First and foremost, the appropriate
apologies should be made to the girls who found fish carcasses
outside their rooms.

In addition, counseling should be recommended to those who
find enjoyment out of deliberately executing living creatures on
a Sunday night. While the rest of the student body were cram-
ming for reviews or drafting papers, girls on 3“ Belk were
asphyxiating live goldfish.

Most importantly, those involved should be required to give
back to the community. Local animal shelters are always in need
for volunteers to bathe, feed and attend to creatures. Although
goldfish are not often found at these shelters, the girls will still
learn Thoreau’s point in saying, “The squirrel that you kill in jest,
dies in earnest.”

What appalls me as much as the scandal itself is the lack of
anger among students. Many people with whom I have spoken
insist that the deaths of goldfish are not worthy of outrage. In fact,
many have found the prank to be funny and even creative.

So does this mean that those who played the prank were only
college kids being themselves? If this is the case, hopefully we
will all grow up soon.

by Jeremy Trantham ‘03

can have is a five- year-old owner. Particilenty one who enjoys
feeding his pets.

In my defense, he looked rather small. Clearly he needed more
food... all the time.

I couldn’t keep my fish alive at all. At least one a week was
overfed and floating belly-up in the bowl. To keep me from
bawling about it, my parents kept buying me new ones. —

Cleo XXVI died about the time I turned six, and I guess I
finally lost interest. Kids do that. Besides, we were moving to
a house with a big yard, and the promise of a real pet was on the
horizon.

The point is — goldfish die. Easily and often.

Sometimes a goldfish is just a goldfish.

It would be completely hypocritical of me to accuse the girls
responsible for the now-infamous goldfish prank of animal
cruelty. I’ve killed more goldfish in my time than these girls ever

from. Abroad '

The Perspectives section begins a new feature this
week called “Postcards from Abroad,” in which
students studying outside the U.S. write in about
their experiences. Know someone abroad? Invite
them to contribute. Michael Galdo ’04, studying
in St. Andrews, Scotland, begins our series.

Junior enjoying
time at St. Andrews

_ There are moments when I want to be back in America, but
overall I wouldn’t want to be anywhere else in the world this
semester. ,

Seeing the Old Course is no longer a shock since I walk next
to it, and sometimes on it, practically every day. But I must admit
that the beauty of the 17th and 18th holes at sun-up and sunset,
when the sun turns the sky red, still gives me a chill.

_ The Old Course in St. Andrews is the oldest golf course in the
world. Golf courses have 18 holes because the Old Course has 18
holes. It is the genuine home of golf.

And that is a good part of the reason why I picked St. Andrews.

However, St. Andrews is also a great university. The oldest
one in Scotland, itis also one of the U.K.’s top schools. [doa good
deal of reading and paper writing, but a full semester’s course
load consists of two classes.

That’s right, I have two classes. Which is wonderful because
it has left me enough time to hit the pubs and golf courses.

Of course, the other big attraction in St. Andrews is Prince
William, the future King of England. Before anyone writes me
to ask, I cannot get you a date with the Prince, or even his
autograph.

But I do have a good friend who plays rugby with him, so
conceivably I could have his ribs cracked if you want.

St. Andrews has 21 pubs, which seems like a lot but is a rather
small number considering all the students who go out practically
every night of the week.

Unfortunately a few of those pubs have a Euro-trashy feel to
them. Witnessing a 30-year-old Brit in tight pants sipping on a
Smirnoff Ice through a straw is acommon sight, I am sad to say.

Fortunately, we have managed to locate quality places where
there are more good ales on tap than middle-aged sketchy Brits.

Ido have afew negatives about St. Andrews to share. The food

_ is pretty bad. Chick-fil-A could make a killing here. They fry

EVERYTHING, including chocolate bars, and in general their
meat tastes quite horrible.

Also, you have to pay for services we take for granted at
Davidson. Paying for laundry and access to the gym are just a
couple of expenses that took a bit of getting used to.

Still, [highly recommend St. Andrews if you are looking to go
abroad. You will get a top-level education, be surrounded by
students from all across the U.K. and U.S., live in the home of
golf and have enough free time'to make some lasting friendships.

Just bring some extra money, your golf clubs, plenty of long
sleeve shirts and a rain jacket.

View of St. Andrews University, Scotland:
one of UK’s top schools.

will. Hell, I got another one in middle school and killed that poor
sucker too.

Maybe this prank was a little over-the-line. But most really
good practical jokes are.

They used a Godfather reference in there. It’s like these girls
took an already solid prank and made it great.

I can’t wait to see if a freshmen hall prank war erupts. This
campus needs something like that in the worst way.

Nothing major, nothing harmful. Just a super soaker war or a

massive pillow- fight attack. You could charge admission for
something like that.

Hell; I’d buy a ticket... maybe two. -

So rest in peace all you Cleo’s that died as a part of a prank.
Sleep easy knowing that your fate was no worse than if youd
been given to a five-year-old who can’t help but feed you.
