ee
Sa

By Derek Low
Arts and Living Editor

Y Tu Mama También (And Your Mama
Too) is a towering achievement. With its
humor and road trip plot, it reminds me of
Almost Famous. 1 love both films for their
happy-go-lucky attitudes, and I admire both
for their broad appeal. Neither are films that
have to find a certain audience; these are
movies anyone can love, or at least
enjoy...very much.

But I like Y Tu Mama También more.
Despite my love for Almost Famous, my
admiration for the film never goes beyond
affection: is Almost Famous anything more

than a great entertainment? The film leaves ©

us with nothing to contemplate. I think the
opening comments of Roger Ebert’s four-
star review are telling of the movie’s limita-
tions: “Oh, what a lovely film. I was almost
hugging myself while I watched it.” Much
hugging, yes, but not much thought.

Y Tu Mama goes further: rather than just
supplementing its clever moments with ideas
about life, death, and politics, the film
seamlessly weaves together all of its virtues.
What appears to be a simple and silly road
movie involving two teenage boys and an
older woman emerges as one of my favorite
movies.

Gael Garcia Bernal and Diego Luna star as
Julio and Tenoch, two Mexico City slackers.

Tunny, :

Both are wall off, capi Tenoch, whose —
father is a high-ranking government official.

They spend their time swimming at the coun-
try club, crashing cars, delaying college, do-
ing drugs, and masturbating. Standard movie-
rich-kid stuff.

va

At a wedding the two friends drink one too
many rum and cokes, and they stumble upon
Luisa (Maribel Verdi), a strikingly beautiful
woman old enough toremember when Tenoch
cried over a lost Thundercat. Julio immedi-
ately becomes infatuated, and invites her to

_join them on a road trip to La Boca del Cielo
(Heaven’s Mouth), an isolated beach still
undiscovered by hotel chains. She politely
declines, and Julio and Tenoch head off for
some more booze.

Hung over and lounging in his father man-

movies.yahoo.com
Luisa comforts Julio in Alfonso Cuaron’s Y Tu Mama También

sion, Tenoch receives a phone call: itis Luisa,
and she wants to go the beach. Tenoch rings
his friend, and the two excitedly begin to plan
their trip. There are a few problems, how-
ever. First, they have no car. Second, La
Boca del Cielo exists only in Julio’s alcohol-

and one of the best

and testosterone-marinated mind. Their
solution’s simple. Julio borrows his sister’s
beat-up station wagon, and as for the beach,
they do what any of us would do...they just
drive and drive and drive.

What happens during their journey and
how and where it ends are things no review
should reveal in detail. Y Tu Mama También
is the stuff of “low comedy” — we’re tempted
to find similarities with American Pie — and
high drama. In retrospect, it’s as emotionally
moving a film as it is a funny one.

Director Alfonson Cuarén’s film succeeds
on every level. He gets the most extraordi-
nary performances from his cast, especially
from Verdi as Maribel. She’s not just a Mrs.
Robinson figure, not just a sexual being that
temps Julio and Tenoch; she’s as complex,
layered and real as any character in any movie.
And Emmanuel Lubenzki’s camera takes a
beautiful, “This Land is Your Land, This
Land is My Land” approach, capturing
Mexico’s gulf coast waters, mountainous
forests, and vast deserts.

When I left the theater, I focused on the
film not as a technical triumph, though it is,
but as a meditation on life. At its heart, Y Tu
Mama4 También is about death and despera-
tion, and it is sad not because someone is
killed, or because someone deserves to die,
but because life, perhaps, justisn’t enough. Y
Tu Mama Tambien is now playing at Concord
Mills.

Chose your own apathy: upon which path will you tread?

By BEN TERESA AND STERLING ROZEAR
Special Contributors

Hey, Davidson! We are back: after a long
trip through the hell that is rejection, we got
asecond chance! We’ll give you an easy out
this time. If you hate this article, go to
Paragraph 1. If you have taste and a sense of
humor, go to Paragraph 2.

1. The End:

2. The Pixies tribute concert at the Tremont
last Saturday was good fun for all. The
Aqualads, The Goldenrods/Les Dirt Clods,
and the Vulvacanoes delivered powerful ren-
ditions of Pixies’ material. While the we
were only present these bands, we feel safe
assuming everyone else sucked. If you are a
fan of the Pixies, go to Paragraph 3. If you are
not a fan of the Eagles, go to Paragraph 4.

3.In other news, today our taskbar tem-
perature meter reads 61 degrees Fahrenheit.
However, weather.com says that there is no
weather for the 28036 zip code. Hey guys, we
don’t know about you, but it feels like there’s
weather out there, somewhere. We know it.
We’ll die before admitting that our shoes are
untied. If you believe in weather, go to
Paragraph 5. If you believe in life after love,
go to Paragraph 6.

4. Ben feels all fuzzy inside. Sterling likes
to watch things grow. Joseph’s Technicolor

Dreamcoat reminds us all how little children
can change... nay, save the world. If you get
this article, go to Paragraph 10. If you like to
put things underneath your pillow to see if
there’s more than just a Tooth Fairy, go to
Paragraph 7.

5. Eddie from Ohio believes in things, too.
Like playing at Davidson on Friday, April 26
at 9:00 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance
Hall (DFPH). And Christmas. Thank you
donors, for all the lovely carpentry in the
DFPH. If you think that Rah, the sun god of
ancient Egypt, had nice abs, go to Paragraph
8. If you’ re wondering why Rah’s worshiper,
King Ramses, had “like 10,000 babies” and
has a condom named after him, go to Para-
graph 10.

6. As any good Davidson student knows,
this weekend is Spring Frolics. Yay: We
think that while there’s love and fun in the air,
grenilins will eat our houses and turn Ben’s
car into a piece of gremlin war-machinery.
Don’t let this happen tous all... Be careful...
only you can prevent forest fires. If you
continue to support the gremlin occupation of
the Raleigh-Durham airport, go to Paragraph
9. If you changed your mind about the
Eagles, go to Paragraph 3.

7. It’s true... Once Sterling puta dog under
his pillow, but all he got in the morning was
fleas. Go to Paragraph 10.

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.D

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE

THE

OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS

- JACK ARMSTRONG,
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

9817-2288

19420 JETTON AO. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE
\. PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCA

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students, faculty and
employees a 20% discount on eyewear and special prices on eye exams.

¥

F.N.A.O. - MARY SALDOPEK, A.B.0

8. We looked into the sky and saw some
crazy, satellite junk floating around our pre-
cious earth. Evena marble sized piece of junk
could inflict serious damage on an orbiting
satellite when it strikes it at 17,000 miles per
hour! That’s about 10 times the speed of a
rifle bullet. Since we are definitely going to
need some expensive lasers that orbit our
earth and make our lives really, really good
and juicy and succulent, like steaks, it goes as
follows: we sure as hell need to clean up our
Earth orbit, at least until we get the lasers up
there, protecting the first lasers from the
space debris and Saddam Hussein. At least
that’s what little Wolf Blitzer (a.k.a. Beard
Man) says to Ben. In his sleep. If you sleep
and are visited by people with faces, go to
Paragraph 10.

9. “Wow, Ben... What’s that right there on
your face?” “It’s my mouth” “Nope, it’s .
glory, Ben, straight outta Compton, and on
your face.”

10. In inconclusive conclusion: Ben likes
linen, Sterling likes most fabrics, and Bugs
Bunny doesn’t wear clothes. The point is,
G.I. Joe was the real American hero, and
knowing is half the battle. But so is wearing
pants. In that respect, we’re all real American
heroes (except for girls who wear skirts and
stuff, but [like those too). So don’t let anyone
tell you that you’re not American enough, or
try to blame you for bad things... because
really, we all wear pants, and even Bugs
Bunny doesn’t, but I like him. Besides,
Dubya

Forms available:

Davidson Town Day 5K

Saturday, May 4, 2002
9:00 a.m. start

Be a part of the 6" annual Davidson Town Day SK road
race! Race begins and finishes at the Davidson Town Green.
All proceeds benefit the Davidson-Cornelius Day Care Center!

This 3.1 mile race is a certified course with split times at
.5, 1 and 2 mile markers. Water stations at miles 1 & 2.

Questions?
Call / e-mail Dr. Susan Roberts, Race Director: #2458 /
~ suroberts @davidson.edu

Union Information Desk

Baker Sports Complex Information Desk
329-C Chambers

Entries may be returned: 329-C Chambers before May 1
You may also mail entries by April 30.
~ . Race Day registration as well

