By Mike GicLio
Sports Editor

After four straight victories and a push
into fifth place in the competitive Southern
Conference, the Davidson Volleyball team
likes its chances at the SoCon title as it drives
ahead into the final month of the regular sea-
son. Victories over cross-town rival UNC
Charlotte and league opponents Appalachian
State, East Tennessee State, and Furman have
put the Wildcats in the drivers seat with solely
league matches remaining on the schedule.

Rebounding from a hard-fought loss to the
College of Charleston, the ‘Cats defeated UNC
Charlotte on October 8th (28-30, 35-33, 30-
21, 18-30, 15-9) for only the second time’in ten
years. After losing the first game of the match,
Davidson bounced back to take the next two
and dominated the fifth and final game after
jumping ahead to an 8-0 lead.

Julia Hueckel led the way with fifteen
putaways and an attack percentage of .520.
Setter Nicole Tonelli had an impressive night
with forty-eight assists and a match-high five
service aces.

The Wildcats moved into fifth place in the
Southern Conference on October 11th with a
victory (30-22, 30-22, 28-30, 30-19) over Ap-
palachian State. After losing a close game
three, the ‘Cats jumped to an early lead in the
fourth game and never looked back. Roberta
Quis led the team with fourteen putaways,
while Tisha Chapman put up a double-double
with ten kills and ten blocks.

Davidson continued its league success on
October 12th against East Tennessee State by

‘decisively sweeping the Bucs 30-27, 30-19,

and 30-23. After allowing ETS to gain an
early lead in the first game, Hueckel and
Rebecca Teichgraeber stepped up to put the
game away and set the tone for the rest of the
match. Sophomore Tamara Gallen had a

’ match-high seventeen digs for the ‘Cats.

The winimproved Davidson’s home record
to 7-1 on the season, an impressive improve-
ment on the Wildcats’ 8-8 home record last
year. ae

On Friday, the ‘Cats faced and defeated
Furman (30-18, 18-30, 32-30, 30-25) for the
second time this season to move within one
game of fourth place. In a closely contested
match, Davidson wasn’t able to secure the
victory until Sophomore Meredith Lorenz
ended the fourth game with her ninth. kill.
Hueckel added thirteen kills and four blocks,
and Teichgraeber had twelve kills and ten digs
to hand the Paladins their first home loss of the
season.

The Wildcats now stand at 14-8 overall and
7-3 in the Southern Conference’ as they enter
the closing stretch of the season.

“We are peaking right now, and the timing
is perfect as we come closer to the Southern
Conference tournament,” comments Quis.

“These wins show just how much we have
improved.”

Teichgraeber agrees, “Our recent success is
very encouraging. With only conference
games remaining, we need to stay focused and
consistent. If we continue to progress in this
manner we should feel quite confident about
our chances of winning the Southern Confer-
ence title.”

Club sports this weekend

Rugby, Saturday TBA

Crew, Saturday 8-10 a.m.

Roller Hockey, saturday and pura Exit 18 CSC

fo Pedy Re Meee IE I PM. Si! Sg RE IR a
ba: 8 Seepeeiaas rae er ae
CREB SSS OME EE HOSS
hee errr re
| ha de tod ae a ae
erEch ee +s 27 7te
¥ RE eS ee ee wR
KRM ORS Fe oe
CESS MWe 2
Cee DMN Ses
Peer egea os.
PEMA LGR ORO
CRS SD RE COs
ee ae
hd So Gee > &
RoE AVM ee Le
6 RS ae a eR
Cee Re ey
Ri Ay Pe oy
RR Oe
Ces TOF SM RF
AS YARNS
ede Mint Gok >
¥ Mee ae a ie .
RRS a Nt o> Pe eS
f a, CE Bede...

: well pp

sh- you t

RRELDE NR RLERS

Se 3

Pas

a ee

€ SPR gs etek”

oS er Ke ® Be

€
ae
*
ms

*¥ « 3 KER SL ODD ea
RF 6 eR Re WO Wh AR ef: £ ee
« be ERE RO i 36 } + # *
ae &S PO ee tet the Ee > -

4 ae te GEM RB Fk See oe % oe fam . a
wee NE ARN 8 We ye be ee ae ea ie 4
x <8 baad So ee ¥ Pe Bk Oh gi ke ey <¢ n 4
Ue Rea tel yea: a
“ ed Re De Rh RM Seti PRR RM ee is

sae << OR VOR RO Re ee ee ee RR RO Ge ORE ee
yo ca ae die ae ec, * 2 a ae dae a, ee a ee ee
te! a> GER Ry Be SORE Oe RR ea cous
* rae CA eee REM ERS ROS mes
Gh « SRE RRM SRR I

* 5 EERE ES Pe ae es 4

re u know it’s in-you. . Tostart wher

foe CEASERS hE SS elds Mea

bs oe sere onsider-ArmysROTG, t's:

«% Pe a a deol ie + isised ainie develoome:

Y Sve :

i

©

&*

ee

* ES Sie %

For SCHOLARSHIP 2
AND ENROLLMENT INFORMATION vist.
: “Mayor Lesiie ae
AT 2 =r ae

o “#1 ncxson Court, ee ee

ee

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team fell to 5-9
overall after losses to Wake Forest, William &
Mary, and the University of Maryland.

Despite these recent defeats, the Cats re-
main 3-1 in the Norpac Conference.

Sophomore goaltender Sarah Nolan, the
backbone of the team, played phenomenally,
making 46 saves in the three games.

Nolan improved to 119 saves on the season.

The ‘Cats faced #4 Wake Forest on October
9th and although the Davidson defense fought

hard, a lack of offensive opportunities resulted.

in a 4-0 loss to the Demon Deacons.

Wake Forest clearly dominated the game,
and with ten minutes remaining in the first
half, they already held a 2-0 lead over the
‘Cats.

During the second half, Nolan led the defen-
sive unit in holding Wake scoreless for twenty
minutes, but the Deacons notched two quick
goals to seal the win.

Davidson was unable to get a shot off against
Wake, and was held to zero penalty corners.

Coach Lisa Thompson focused on the posi-
tive when discussing the game. On Nolan,

Lady harriers
By saw eee

The women’s cross-country team placed
third behind Duke and Wake Forest on Satur-
day, Oct. 12, at the North Carolina Intercolle-
giate Championships at Lake Kristi in
Greenville, NC. Last Saturday, however, the
women stomped all their contenders on their
way to winning Winthrop University’s Fall
Classic.

Atthe North Carolina Intercollegiate Cham-
pionships, sophomore Anna Brew placed first
for the Wildcats and eighteenth overall in the
large field of runners, springing back from an
injury that has prevented her from racing all
season. Her time of 18:25 was outstanding
enough to win her recognition as Southern
Conference Runner of the Week. Freshman
Allie Martin had yet another stellar perfor-
mance, finishing second on the team with a
time of 18:36. Junior captain Laura Puckett
brought in third place for the Wildcats at 18:49,
with sophomore Sally Stanhope close behind
at 18:52. Senior captain Liz Gross boosted the
score for the ‘Cats at 19:04, followed by Sarah
Baxter at 19:10 and Hilary Leister at 19:19.
Emily Einstein also contributed a solid finish

against ranked op)

SENIORS

This event may change your life! .

According to a recent US News article, “Careers you can count on,”
speech-language pathology was listed third in terms of future job
opportunities. It is the eleventh fastest growing profession in America.
| Speech-Language Pathologists provide services to children and adults

with a variety of communication handicaps and work in various
employment settings (private practice, hospitals, rehabilitation centers,
public schools, etc.). Starting salaries are in the upper 30's.

On Monday, November 4" at 10 a.m., the Department of |
Communication Sciences & Disorders at The University of South:
Carolina is sponsoring a Recruitment Day in Columbia, for college
students who would like to learn more about its master’s degree
program and this exciting profession. This is an excellent opportunity to
meet the faculty and interact with current graduate students who have
made this career choice (over half of whom do not have undergraduate
degrees in speech pathology). A free lunch is provided.

Because space is limited, please contact Ms. Teresa Boyett (777-3080)
by October 28" to reserve your seat for this important event.

who made twenty five saves, she said, “Sarah
was all over the cage tonight, stopping shots
left and right. She really kept us in the game.”

The ‘Cats continued their play by traveling
north to face. the Tribe of William & Mary on
October 12.

Davidson was unable to keep up with the
Tribe, falling 7-1 in the contest.

Davidson’s Allison Matlack tipped a pen-
alty corner pass to Kathleen Fenn, who scored
the ‘Cats’ single goal with twelve minutes left
in the game.

Davidson was out shot 25-5, and the team
took only five penalty corners to William &
Mary’s eight. Nolan recorded six saves.

The following day, Davidson took to the
field against the #1 team in the nation, the
Maryland Terrapins. While the Terrapins
defeated Davidson 3-0, the “Cats never gave
up, and impressively shut out the Terps in the
second half.

Nolan made 12 of her 15 saves in the second
half, leading the ‘Cats in their second half shut
out.

Davidson next plays on Wednesday, Octo-
ber 23rd, against Appalachain State. The ‘Cats
are hungry for a win.

finish first

with atime of 19:36, along with Carolyn Mohr
at 20:00, Lindley Swartz at 20:11, Brooke
Kittinger at 20:31, and Carissa Skrivanek at
20:56.

The team was pleased with the fast course
and good times, and many members set per-
sonal bests. ,

At the Winthrop Fall Classic, the‘women
defeated conference foe Furman University,
among others, as they cruised to a first place
finish. :

The trio of Brew, Martin, and Stanhope,
with finishes at 4th, 5th, and 6th place, pro-
vided the basis for the Wildcats’ first-place
team score. Those runners had times of 15:01, :
15:04, and 15:08 on the 4K course. Leister and
Puckett added to the score at 15:26 and 15:33,
respectively. Gross ran a quick 15:46 and was
followed by Einstein at 16:10 and Swartz at
16:15. Freshmen Skrivanek and Mohr also
ran strong races at 16:36 and 16:38.

Amidst some strong competition, the team
showed amazing mental and physical tough-
ness and demonstrated their preparation for
their next challenge: the Southern Conference
Championships, held in two weeks in Charles-
ton, S.C.

