Davidson

By BreTTe HARRISON
Special Contributor

Before Madonna made it famous, my awk-
wardly inflexible friend, Meredith, and my
clumsy, uncoordinated self were attending
yoga classes at our local gym. Growing up in
the Midwest, we didn’t have quite the selec-
tion of yoga experts who accumulate cult
followings in the coastal cities. The likes of

www. yoga.com

Rodney Yee and Karen Voight my small
provincial town had never seen. Nonethe-
less, the step aerobics instructor went to a
workshop one weekend, and the next week
she started drinking soymilk and teaching
yoga twice a week, one Saturday a month.
In the beginning, only the stereotypical
yoga enthusiasts attended: the sculptor, the
professor, the consignment store owner, and,
of course, a lion’s share of vegetarians and
vegans. Meredith and I always felt a little out
of place, she being a little bow legged and me
being a lot uncoordinated. After a while we
were able to ignore the snobby stares and
rolling of eyes when one of us snorted during
the breathing exercises or fell over during
triangle pose. Before long, Meredith could
touch her toes, I could go from plank to cobra
without touching my knees to the floor, and I
think we both were a little more inspired by
all those “Thoughts for Today” that the in-
structor handed out during meditation.

for i finity yoga. arr

Yoga was always anice topic for conversa-
tion, a lot of my less open-minded acquain-
tances always thought it was some weird
religious gathering, afraid that next year I
would be writing letters home from some
communal farm in the southwest. And I
always enjoyed taking others with me to
class: my European History teacher, the to-
ken beauty queen, and my mom.

Sadly, however, freshman year of college I
was forced to retire my yoga mat and jersey at
the gym and left for school, assuring every-
one in the class that I would keep up my sun
salutations without them. I thought I was
leaving my flexibility and tranquility at home
in Missouri, but it wasn’t long before I found
myself in that all too familiar “downward
facing dog” pose once again.

I don’t know whether it was karma or
Myers and Briggs, but by my second semes-
ter at Davidson, I could always find someone
on my hall to do yoga with me in the lounge,
even if our carpet was moldy. For an activity
so relaxing and slow-paced, it’s ironic that
yoga and other forms of calm group exercise
have become all the rage.

Now in my fourth semester at Davidson,
I’ ve left my days of moldy carpets, reaching
for infinity, and video yoga instructors be-
hind. I now venture multiple times a week to
the YMCA of Cornelius for pilates (pro-
nounced pi-LAH-tees) classes. Pilates is
similar to yoga, but sets itself apart with its
more than 500 specific exercises using five
major pieces of unique apparatus to develop
the body uniformly without building muscle
mass. Its founder, Joseph H. Pilates, favored
many, more precise movements over the rep-
etition of a specific few.

The Cornelius YMCA offers pilates classes
Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays, and Sun-
days and yoga classes throughout the week,
as well. Call (704) 716-4400 for more infor-
mation.

202 Souk “Main Sheree y Bigvidson: NC
892-0604

q OPTICAL SHOP

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS

ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.0.

- JACK ARMSTRONG, F.N.A.O, - MARY SALOPEK, 0.8.0.

EVE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE,, CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN & DE LUCE
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUK - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

| Continuing our policy of offering
Davidson Students, Faculty & Employees a
20% Discount on Eyewear
and Special Prices on Eye exams.

. pelling ‘stories.

Amelie, from page 5

more than that. We care about their relation-
ship. And while we laugh when we hear then
have sex, we’re also, to some degree, happy
for the couple.

Many of Jeunet’s previous films have come

Audrey Tautou plays the title character in Amelie

under fire for their lack of story. They’re
universally praised for their visual style, sets,
and costumes, but they seldom gel into com-
Take The City of Lost
Children,for example. It’s a astonishingly
beautiful movie, dark and atmospheric in a
Seven-meets-Dark-City-in-Paris way. Iteven
contains a number of promising ideas, in-
cluding a bunch of clones who cannot figure
out which one of them is the original. The

City of Lost Children, however, felt more like
a side show than a stage production: there
were many interesting things to see and con-
template, but they never came together to
form a coherent whole.

Amelie, on the other hand,- works as a
romantic-comedy-fantasy. We care about

movies.yahoo.com

Amelie, and we want her to get her man. I
think, though, that Audrey Tautou is the main
reason that Amelie works so well. To imag-
ine the picture without her is near impossible.

-She creates such a special character that we

struggle to imagine her in a nother role. Her
Amelie is like Meg Ryan Light with a touch
of Bjérk and Chris Kattan’s Mango for good
measure. That may not sound too appealing,
but trust me on this one.
