Baseball and Banana Splits”. raises

than $350 for African banana farmers

Service event’s proceeds
will provide small loans to
Kenya’s banana farmers

By Katie OsBo_t
Special Contributor

Turner House combined ice cream,
Davidson sports, and service with its “Base-
ball and Banana Splits” fundraiser
on Saturday, March 16. The project
took place on Turner’s back porch,
where the women of Turner House
traded banana splits for donations
during the baseball team’s double
header against Georgia Southern.

Proceeds totaled $359.04 and will
go to benefit an innovative, award-
_ winning agricultural development
project that is helping African farm-
ers grow more bananas. Dr. David
Alvarez, visiting assistant professor
of English, came to Turner with this
need last semester, and Turner de-
cided to sponsor “Baseball and Ba-
nana Splits.”

Alvarez explained that the project

Films, from page 1

tour. Sutton explained that it is important for
Davidson students to get a better understand-
ing of international conflicts.

Sutton added that students should realize
that although we at Davidson may not suffer
directly from conflict, itis important to search
for ways to defuse these conflicts around the
world. He expressed the hope that this film
series would aid in the accomplishment of
these goals.

The films, most of which are being shown
in Perkins Auditorium in Chambers, are fol-
lowed up by discussions led by various fac-
ulty members. Sutton noted that Professor
Zoran Kuzmanovich led a ‘particularly en-
gaging discussion after the film Prelude to
Kosovo by drawing on some of his own
experiences in the former Yugoslavia.

is meantto aid rural banana farmers in eastern
Africa. “Diseases and pests have devastated
their crops, partly because farmers lack clean,
disease-free planting materials.

“But thanks to a consortium of public agri-
cultural research centers and private-indus-
try, tissue-culture bananas are now available
to African farmers. With yields improved by
at least 30% and a faster growth rate, these
tissue-culture bananas are making a real dif-

oe

Photo courtesy of Turner House
Children from the community enjoyed banana
splits at Turner on Saturday.

Sutton explained that attendance was low
at the first film, Forbidden Marriages in the
Holy Land, which was unfortunate because
Aviva Raz-Shechter, a counselor from the
Israeli Embassy was present for the discus-
sion. Later that evening, Raz-Shechter deliv-
ered an address entitled “Israel and the Arab
World” in the Smith 900 Room of the Union.

Attendance increased for Prelude to
Kosovo, but fell sharply to one audience
member on March 14" due*to Davidson’s
NCAA tournament game, which took place
at the same time.

The film that was supposed to be shown at
that time, Just a Little Red Dot was instead
screened on Saturday, March 16 after
Multicultural Kids’ Day in the Union.

Sutton encouraged all faculty, staff, and
students to take advantage of these films

Robed in magnificent costumes and playing tradi-
‘ tional Tibetan instruments, the Tibetan monks

perform music featured on the Golden Globe

nominated soundtrack of Seven Years in Tibet.

Schedule, from page 1
Lecture on the Art of Healing

Wed 3/20 7:30 p.m.
Chambers Gallery

Dinner with the Monks
Thur 3/21 7:30 p.m. *
Union Outpost

RSVP Aditi Sethi: X6060

Guided Meditation
Fri 3/22 2:30 p.m.

Union Outpost
RSVP Greg X7359

Sacred Dance and Music Performance

Fri 3/22 8:00 p.m.

Duke Family Performance Hall

Tickets: $10.00 Students, $20.00 Faculty/
Staff, $25.00 General ‘Public.

Call X2135 to purchase tickets by phone,
or Visit the ticket box office on the third floor
of the Alvarez College Union between 1:30-
5:00, Monday-Friday.

ference to farmer’s lives, especially for
women, who are primarily responsible for

growing bananas in African culture.

“Toaccess these improved materials, how-
ever, farmers need access to'credit. A tissue-
culture banana plant costs just $1.40, but this
is beyond the reach of the region’s subsis-
tence farmers. Accordingly, the International
Service for the Acquistion of. Agri-biotech
Applications (ISAAA), a non-profit organi-
zation that seeks to reduce poverty
by providing farmers in develop-
ing countries with access to new
agricultural technologies, has set-
up a micro-credit program based
on the Grameen Group Approach,
which has been a huge success in
other parts of the world.

“The program establishes a re-
volving fund for small loans to
farmers-rather like a credit union-
and as farmers repay these loans
the money is then lent out again,”
he said.

The proceeds from this
fundraiser will be contributed to
the credit program’s revolving
fund.

while they are on campus. Other films being
shown in the series include Rain 1949, Long
Night’s Journey into Day, and Regret to In-
form: A Journey in Search of Time. The last
film, Peace of Mind: Coexistence through the
Eyes of Palestinian and Israeli Teens, will be
shown on Thursday, March 21 in Perkins
Auditorium at 4 p.m.

The film centers on the efforts of Palestin-
ian and Israeli teenagers who met at a “Seeds
of Peace” camp in Maine.

It chronicles their return home and their
efforts to visit each other in their homes,
amidst bombings and volatile peace talks that
threaten their security. Professor Shaw Smith
will lead the discussion afterwards.

For more information on the Search for
Common Ground and Davidson’s screening
of the series, see http://www.sfcg.org.

CAMPUS POLies
BLOTTER

03/01/02 - Richardson Dorm
At approximately 1:15 a.m., an
unknown person entered victim's
room and damaged a laptop com-
puter. Damage is estimated to be
approximately $2,000.

03/02/02-03/10/02 - Parking
Lots (Irwin, Belk, Martin
Court)

Over Spring Break, three cars
were broken into; all three were
‘locked at the time the burglary
occurred. All -had after-market
stereo equipment stolen.

03/18/02 - Senior Satellite
An unknown person vandal-
ized a vehicle by keying the
letters IDRCOBORA in vehicle
door.

