Nelson’s offensive disappointment

By Derek Lou

Arts and Living Editor

Before we get to / AntSam, a few words on
my experiences with mentally disabled char-
acters on the silver screen.

I'll say it if you won’t. Don’t even bother
letting the PC Canine Unit loose: I won’t be
running. Characters with mental disabilities
are funny. Whether you like it or not, most of
us have had a chuckle or two at the expense of
Billy, the boy with Down syndrome down the
street.

Thinking about
cinema’s relationship
with the disabled, I am
surprised that I recall
more films that make
good use of their “chal-
lenged” characters than
films that simply ex- |
ploit their conditions.
Does Lasse Hallstrom
find humor in Arnie
from What’s Eating
Gilbert Grape? Of F-
course he does. Arnie, #!
quite simply, does 4
some very funny
things. Arnie, how-
ever, also does what
every other child does: he gets in trouble, he
demands love, and he gives love, as well.

Not every mentally retarded character on
the screen is as multidimensional as Arnie
Grape is. Take Warren from There’s Some-
thing About Mary. (His ear sensitivity: very
funny.) While Mary takes place ina Miami so
very different from the warm and loving Iowa
of Gilbert Grape, both films are equally true
to and fond of their stories and characters. We

Student exhibit

photo by Aliison Ong

By ALLISON ONG
Special Contributor

Currently showing is Nathanial Rogers’s
“Life’s Little Dilemmas,” Feb. 20-29, Smith
Gallery, Visual Arts Center. The works are
in charcoal and most of the male figures in
Rogers’s drawings are self-portraits. Set in
unlikely environments and having his fig-
ures in strange juxtapositions, Rogers keeps
his audience guessing on what is happening
in his pictures. In “Reality Check,” one
cannot tell where the two figures are, why
the girl seems to be pulling her shirt down
towards her crotch area, why the male figure
behind her has his head thrown back, as if in
a trance, and more. Though other works are
less ambiguous and easier to understand, the
goal of Rogers’s work is still clear: to call
the viewer back to look atthe image again
and again, with a different interpretation
each time.

Penn received an Oscar nod
for his work in /Am Sam

love, loathe, and laugh at Arnie in every scene
of Gilbert Grape, and we laugh at every char-
acter in Mary. Is it cruel to laugh at someone
because of a disability? Well, yes, but it’s also
cruel to laugh at someone with semen in her
hair.

Now comes / Am Sam, starring the great
Sean Penn with the intellectual capacity of a
seven-year-old. Is Penn convincing in this
role? Of course he is convincing; he is Sean
Penn. However, when the word “convincing”
is used to describe a performance, it suggests
imitation, not acting. And as we’d all agree,
imitation and acting are two very
different skills, the latter more
difficult.

Penn is Sam. Sam is mentally
disabled. Sam reads Green Eggs
and Ham. Sam — somehow — has
a daughter. Samraises his daugh-
ter. She is Lucy (Dakota Fan-
ning). Lucy is smart, alot smarter
than Sam. Social workers take
Lucy away from Sam. Sam is
sad, and tries to get Lucy back.

The film’s co-writer/director,
Jessie Nelson, tries to make us
believe that aman who could not
read the preceding paragraph
could raise a child. Such acom-
plaint is, to some degree, unfair:
I Am Sam is a parable about the human spirit,
and its moral is “love is all you need.” In other
words, we’ re supposed to ignore reality. And,
I must admit that, at first, I bought into the
film’s premise to the degree that I did not
watch Sam and Lucy’s interactions with com-
plete disbelief. About a third into the movie,
however, Nelson and her ridiculous film lost
me completely.

The straw. that breaks J] Am Sam’s back is a

www.imdb.com

quiet one. Lucy has a friend over for some |
He asks Lucy why her father is |

playtime.
acting like a retard. Lucy explains that her
father is a retard. This little: moment is quite
funny, and surprisingly honest, but look at its
context. There are two seven-year-olds that
are alone in an apartment with a mentally
disabled man in his thirties. All three people in
the room have the same mental capacity. I ask
parents reading this article a question: would
you let your seven-year-old go over toa friend’ s
house to play and be supervised by Sam? A
scene like this one is the material of fantasy,
not parable.

I Am Sam is certainly unbelievable, but is it
mean? In other words, is it going to offend the
PC police and their buddies at the Special

‘Olympics? The answer to this question is

probably “no.” After all, it’s rather impressive
to have a mentally disabled character raise a
child from infancy to kindergarten.

It does, however, offend me as a moviegoer.
Here is a film that expects me to laugh at Sam
and his friends, each with his unique disability.

- (One can only imagine how and where they all

met.) Italso expects us to sympathize with and
love Sam and his friends. Did I laugh? Yes, I
must admit that I did. But when I laughed, it
was not the type of good-hearted chuckle that
makes me smile afterwards. The laughs in /
Am Sam are cold and mean, more “South Park”
than “Simpsons.”

I did not, though, sympathize with or love
Sam and his friends. Nelson never comes
close to evoking the emotions that Hallstrom
did with What’s Eating Gilbert Grape or Neil
LaBute did with Jn the Company of. Men.
Furthermore, Nelson loves her characters con-
ditionally, making fun of them in one scene,
and then giving us emotional close-ups in
others. Even worse, she expects her audience,
though not herself to love her characters un-
conditionally. It seems that Nelson confused
the mental capacity of her audience with that of
her main character.

Derek Trucks: a jewel among thorns

By Layton Hower
Special Contributor

Music fans witnessed a spectacular, one-
of-a-kind performance on Friday night in
the 900 Room. No fool, not that Shakespeare
schwag—this was something really special;
a jewel among thorns, a bright light minis-
tering to the many poor souls suffering from
musical retardation (compliments of the
Court), the sky-walker of the blues himself,
Mr.Derek Trucks.

Trucks, now 0
22 years old,
has a musical
background
that is long and
storied despite
his few years.
His uncle,
Butch Trucks,
an original
drummer of the
Allman Broth-
ers, provided
access to a ma-
jor band from

his youngest The Derek Trucks Band played the 900

days. By age Room on Friday night
nine, Trucks

was performing guitar professionally. and
was in such high demand that the state of
Florida changed its laws concerning minors
in bars to allow young Trucks to perform in
them. © .

No really, his dad sold the family roofing
business to support his son’s band. Eleven
years later, Trucks plays in two bands: The
Derek Trucks Band and his uncle’s Allman
Brothers Band.

Sothis is what happened on Friday: Trucks
walked on stage and ripped the holy turd out
of his Washburn. Solo after bodacious solo
tumbled out as he commanded his mighty ax
to scream, moan, bite, bark, and beg for
mercy. Trucks varied his style from playing
the traditional, lilting slide solos reminis-
cent of Duane Allman himself, to loosening
that fat guitar string above the others, pull-
ing it over the back of the neck and plucking
it as lovingly as a kind farmer milks the ripe
teat of a frightened calf. Trucks made noises
you ve never heard from a guitar. Trust me,
you haven’t. You know why you haven’t?
Because you’ve never heard someone play

an entire solo by flicking guitar strings witha
slide held in the picking hand. And do you
know why you’ ve never heard that? Because
you were either too lame or too drunk to make
it to the concert.

That’s not to say that he’s selfish or that the
reason he has a band is to provide a soloing
platform. In fact, he readily relinquishes the
lime-light to allow the band to function as its
own organism. Not only does each member
get a piece of the musical pie, but the pie’s
sweeter because of each one’s individual

presence. ‘Trucks
actually kneeled
down at one point
to let the crowd see
the dueling percus-
sionists fabulously
flail their ferocious
fists of fury.

Soaside from this
earth-shattering
guitar maestro, let’s
see who’s got da
man’s back. Do you
like Widespread
Panic? I don’t, but
their conga player,
Count Mabutu,
rocks and he was
whacking the deer hide with his manos
rapidos. To his left, Yonrico Scott plowed
through his percussion entourage, hitting it
all, from a traditional five-peice drumset to
bongos, cowbells, even the dainty, yet deli-
cious, triangle. Todd Smallie manned the 6-
string bass with a fervor, laying a foundation
that the dude in the parable would have been
wise to build upon. And Kofi Burbridge,
holy smokes! Kofi Burbridge! His fingers
absolutely set the keyboard, organ, and
clavinet on fire and his lips ignited the worthy
lute. For this man, the organ is an extension
of his body, a third hand of sorts, and the flute
a third...err..

Oh, there was also Javier + Colon, but he
sang in a high voice and tucked his shirt into
his khakis, so we won’t say much about him.

In what was hands down the most righteous
musical feat Davidson will entertain all year,
The Derek Trucks Band and their monsoon of
ridonkulous skillz gullywashed the 900 Room
with a frothy bath of blues power. As in the
words of our resident blues aficianado, A.
Satakopan Dileepan, “Dude...wow.”

www.derektrucks.com

THE

OF LAKE

“THE
FINEST QUALITY»
_ EYEWEAR INTHE
INDUSTRY 2

OPTICAL SHOP

SETTER:

EMPERIENCED —

\_TEAMIN THE

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED

LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG,
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURNER

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE © 19420 JETTON RO. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE

F.N.A.0. - MARY SALOPEK, A.B.0.

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE.. CORNELIUS NEAR DEAN a DE LUCA
AUTHORIZED ZEISS - VARILUX - SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABORATORY

Continuing our policy of offering
Davidson Students, Faculty & Em-
ployees a 20% Discount on Eyewear
and Special Prices on Eye exams.

