Tae Davinsontan

By Mark PusTay
Staff Writer

Facing their toughest competition
to date, the Davidson golf team fin-
ished 18th at the Birkdale Collegiate
Classic in Huntersville this past week-
end. After gorgeous weather the first
day, Mother Nature forced the tourna-

~ mentto be shortened to thirty-six holes.

Wake Forest, paced by overall win-
ner Bill Haas (66-72), raced to a six-
under-par 570 to take the crown. The
third-ranked Deacons finished two
strokes ahead of second-place Mis-
souri.

Georgia Southern and Virginia tied
for fourth, while Baylor finished fifth.
The top five teams blazed the course,
as each team was under par for the
tournament.

The field included highly regarded
programs such as North Carolina, Vir-
ginia Commonwealth, Colorado State,
and East Carolina.

The Wildcats combined for an over-
all score of 620 on the 7,013-yard .
layout. Junior Ben Friedell fired a 153
(78-75) to lead the Wildcats. Sopho-
more Jon Kropski turned:in a solid 155 to
finish just behind Friedell.

Sophomore P.J. Martin and freshmen Dan
Koernke and Joe Zimmerman also started for
the ’Cats, teaming with Friedell and Kropski
for the team’s overall score.

Rain spoils weekend for golf

Photo courtesy of Sports Information

Ben Friedell lines up a putt.

The golf team travels to Greenville, SC,
this weekend to compete in the Furman Invi-
tational. There, the ’Cats will face some of the
teams they will try to beat out for the South-
ern Conference championship next month.

By CAROLINE HAUusER
Sports Editor

Davidson’s lacrosse team is off to one of
the best starts in its history. Three weeks into
March, the Wildcats are 5-3.0n the season and
0-1 in American Lacrosse Conference.

On a spring break trip to Florida, the team
lit up Disney’s Wild World of Sports com-
plex with wins over Lehigh and Holy Cross.

Combining a 10-3 victory over Lehigh and
a 6-5 squeaker over Holy Cross, senior Sarah
Otto led the team with seven goals and three
assists. Loren Seaton ’03 helped out with four
goals and four assists; Blair Otto also added
a pair. Sarah Thornton, Whitney Diefenforf,

goal, and Lindsey Frank got an assist.
Goaltender Becca Nussbaum made 28 saves.

Back in Richardson Stadium on March 10,
Davidson downed Duquesne, 10-6. Senior
Raimondo scored less than a minute into the
game. After Duquesne’s Katie Harner tied
the game, Davidson scored three more times
for a 4-1 lead with 9:22 to play. Duquesne
rallied at the end of the period, and headed to
the locker room down just one goal, 4-3.

Davidson opened the half strong, with
Seaton scoring her second of three goals with
25:56 to play. Blair Otto scored one of her
two goals off a Diefendorf assist for a 6-3
lead. Sarah Otto had three goals, and keeper
Nussbaum made 10 saves.

Despite heavy rain, Davidson trounced vis-
iting Wagner, 15-4, on March 12. After scor-

; Se >. - > ; ee ‘EDNESDA

Lacrosse makes stron

and Christin Raimondo each chipped in a_

ing four goals in the first five minutes, the
Wildcats never looked back, entering half-
time up 12-0. Eight Wildcats scored goals in —
the game: Sarah Otto (4), Raimondo (3),
Seaton (2), Thornton (2), Blair Otto, Millie
McKeachie, Anna Wolfgang, and Allison
Matlack.

Nussbaum split goaltending responsibili-
ties with Julie Goff, and they each posted
three saves.

While visiting Johns Hopkins, Davidson
dropped its first-ever American Lacrosse
Conference game, 16-6.

In the heartbreaker, Sarah Otto netted three
goals, followed by Diefendorf, Raimondo,
and Wolfgang with one apiece. JHU led 9-1
at the half. Despite the loss, Nussbaum stopped
12 shots for the Wildcats.

Maryland was just not a good state for the
Cats, as they lost their next game, 13-5, to
Towson University this past Saturday.

Towson went on a 7-0 scoring spree in the
first 20 minutes of the game, and, with just
one goal in the first half, Davidson could not
catch up. In the second, Towson scored just
three times, but the damage was done. In the
loss, Raimondo and Sarah Otto posted two
goals, Blair Otto had one, and Diefendorf got
an assist. Nussbaum made eight saves.

The game against Duke, originally sched-
uled for Friday, March 29 has been moved to
Wednesday, April 3 at 6 p.m.

The next Davidson home game will be
Sunday, March 24, when they host Harvard at
1 p.m.

Womeng from page 12

constant stream of encouraging words could
always be heard by the team, whether in
practice or in games. Sadly, Dee was joined
this season by a fellow senior, tri-captain
Kelly Copland.

In the first half of the season opener against
Army, Copland went down with what was
diagnosed later as a tear to her ACL, side-
lining her for the rest of the season. Copland,
referred to by teammates as “Kell” or “Cope,”
averaged 9.5 points and 6.0 rebounds in her
junior season, and brought great versatility to
the team at 6-0, able to play both inside and
outside as a shooting guard and a small for-
ward. Her presence was notably missed on
the court, but, like Dee, her positive leader-
ship continued to flourish and inspire her
teammates from the sidelines. .

The only active senior this season was
shooting guard and tri-captain Janna Magette.
The all-time Southern Conference leader in
three-point field goals, and the second-lead-
ing scorer in Davidson history with 1,392
points, Magette was recently named to the
2002 All-Southern Conference team. More
of a stoic, lead-by-example type player,
Magette led the team in scoring this season,

averaging 15.3 points per game, as wellas5.6 .

rebounds per game. The soft-shooting guard
from Hoover, Alabama will be sorely missed
next year as Davidson’s main scoring threat.

Four sophomores look back. . .

Once I finally managed to pull Lindsay
Shade, Courtney Laird, Robyn Flewelling,
and Ashley Hallsted away from the NCAA
tournament games this weekend, I asked them
to reminisce one last time about their season
and the three graduating seniors. Here is what
they had to say:

Hallsted and Flewelling on the senior class:
“The senior class meant a lot to our team, and
they will be missed greatly next year. Janna
has been there every year, and was our lead-
ing scorer this year, and you ‘just cannot
replace that.

“In terms of Dee, we’ ve never even had the
opportunity to play with her, but she was still
such a positive force: always telling us what
we needed to do, making us work hard, being

that extra set of eyes out there, and instilling
confidence in us.

“Tt’s really a shame that we couldn’t have
Kelly there this last year because of her
injury, and we all missed her on the court. We

can’t replace any of them, so we all just need

to step up next year and try to follow in their
footsteps a little bit.”

Shade and Laird on this season: “This
season was definitely a building year, espe-
cially because of Kelly’s injury, and because
of the new coaches. However, the coaching
staff is so strong, and we now have a year of
playing with them, so that will definitely
work to our advantage next season.

“We need to keep our continuity as a team,
and work on the little, fundamental things
like defense and rebounding.

“Everybody has left with a real hunger for.

next year, and we are very excited and ready
to surprise some people.”

J Mexico/Caribbean:
$300 round trip plus tax
Europe:
$169 one-way plus tax
Book TICKETS ONLINE
www.airtech.com
or 212-219-7000

Summer Camp in Atlanta

Westminster Day Camp seeks employees with integrity and
character to fill all positions (swimming, canoeing, archery,
arts and crafts, etc., and general camp counselors). Campers
are 4-13 years old. Camp dates are June 10-July 19, Monday-
Friday, 8:30-4:00 and orientation June 4-7. Please call 404 609-
6265 for application and salary scale or apply on-line:
www.westminster.net/campstaff

¥ The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies presents:

“Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”

The Fo wndeen for thé Debease

SRA

of Democracies 1s seeking qualified

undergraduate applicants to participate in a fellowship program entitled
"Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism”.

The fellowship program will commence August 3-21 in Tel Aviv and will allow
participants to interact with academics, diplomats and military officials from

India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States. PDD fellows will be

provided with all room, board, and travel expenses.

FDD is a non-profit, non-partisan and non-ideological think tank that
promotes informed debate about policies and positions that will most
effectively abolish international terrorism. .

Questions? Email fellows@defenddemocracy.org

For additional details and application visit www.defenddemocracy.org

