he

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2002

Court vandalism, theft
investigation continues

Perpetrators confess in the
wake of pressure from .
president, community

By Nick ASMA
Senior Staff Writer _

Guilty parties recently admitted to the Feb.
14 and 16crimes against fraternity Sigma Phi
Epsilon and eating houses Rusk, Warner Hall
and CoHo that resulted in more than $1,000
of property damage.

Patterson Court Council, Campus Police,
and administration began investigating the
crimes immediately, and inquires continued
throughout last week.

Vandals struck SigEp, Rusk and CoHo
early Thursday morning, breaking windows
and smearing large quantities of food on

tables, walls and furniture. Rusk’s foosball
table and SigEp’s brand new pool table were
also ruined.

Destructive events over the weekend added
insult to those of Thursday morning; reports
to Campus Police just after | a.m. on Satur-
day, Feb. 16 confirmed 13 cases of beer
stolen from a locked cabinet in Rusk and a
kitchen door and doorframe damaged in
Warner Hall. The crimes cost an estimated
$175 and $200 in damage respectively.

Following the incidents, school officials
worked quickly to determine the identity of
perpetrators. On the evening of Monday 18
the PCC held a meeting with Campus Police
and administrators to discuss a proper course
of action. President Bobby Vagt urged house

see Court, page 3

PASSING THE GAVEL

SGA President Grady Patterson ’03 (left) was sworn into office by

outgoing president Joey Harris ’02 in Thursday’s meeting... Charles
Washington ’04 was sworn in as this term’s vice-president.

WALT show returns with new rules |

“I thought they did a good job,” she said. 3

By Matt GarFIELD
Managing Editor

_ The most controversial talk show on cam-
pus returned to the airwaves on Sunday night,
but the only talking was done by its hosts.

Thanks to a telephone glitch in the Union,
sophomores Ryan Carvalho and Mbye Nijie
were unable to take calls on “The Black Man
and the Mexican,” their weekly 9 to 11 p.m.
show on WALT 1610 AM.

Supplying two hours worth of dialogue
with no help from callers wasn’t what the
hosts envisioned after taking a week off to
devise a new format for their show.

“That made things really rough,” said
Carvalho. “Mbye and I are pretty good at
running our mouths, but two hours straight is

hard. It posed a big challenge. A lot of what
we talk about is feeding off the callers.”
The hosts discussed the recent vandalism
on Patterson Court for much of the first hour,
and then chatted with actors from the Royal

_ ShakeSpeare Company during the second half.

They returned to the air 10 days after sta-
tion managers met with the Media Board to
devise new guidelines aimed at cleaning up
content on all WALT programs. The meeting

was prompted by complaints to administra- :

tors in the days after Carvalho and Njie broad-

- cast a list they called the “20 Most Terrible”

people at Davidson.

After listening to a tape of Sunday’s show,
station manager Lauran Halpin ‘03 said she
noticed an improvement— and hasn’t re-
ceived any complaints from listeners.

ICE

»

©
=
—
OC
Br
~
=
_
~
=
S
m=
[4

The Royal Shakespeare Company continues its residency at Davidson,
performing The Merchant of Venice to packed houses. Above, Paul
Hickey as Bassanio and lan Gelder as Antonio. See review, page 6.

Changes on the way for.
dorms, housing lottery

RLO will allow co-ed
clustering, eliminate
same-sex dorms in fall

By Linpy BALDWIN
News Editor

On Monday, Feb. 18, Davidson students
logged on to the RLO website to learn their
fate in the 2002-2003 housing lottery. What
many of those: students may-not yet know,
however, is that the rules for the housing
lottery have been altered for the upcoming
year. The changed encompass everything
from the off-campus application process to
the gender designations of certain floors to a
new rule allowing men and women to cluster
together in the housing lottery.

As in previous years, students who wish to
live off-campus must apply for permission.
However, this year the application process
has been split into two steps. All students
may pick up Part | of the form at RLO.

thought it was probably the best show so far.
It’s too bad the phones didn’t work. If they
would’ve had callers, [the show] would’ ve

* been better.”

Associate Dean of Students Kathy Bray
Merrell, who chairs the nine-member Media
Board made up of administrators, professors
and students, said the panel will start holding
regular meetings and is considering hosting a
retreat for student media leaders.

She hopes the Board will “provide sup-
port” to publications and radio programs,
because “the issues are more complicated
than maybe they’ ve been in the past.”

She stressed that the Board has no inten-

see WALT, page 4

; ments.

However, only students who attend the man-
datory March 13 meeting (at 7pm in the 900
Room) will be able to pick up Part 2.

“The mandatory meeting talks about the
application process,” explained Dean of Resi-
dence Life Leslie Marsicano. “We will also
have the campus police and the chief of police
in the town there to talk about some of the
differences between living on the campus
and living in the town.”

According to Marsicano, a second minor
change to this year’s system will be in the
application procedure for Martin Court apart-
In the past, many students have
switched between apartments after the as-
signments came out — which, Marsicano sug-
gested, was in part a way of outsmarting the
lottery system.

Now, after Martin Court apartments have
been assigned, no student may trade places
with another student until after September 9.
“It’s going to be very important that people be
very sure about the groups they want to live
with, and be very sure about the apartments

see RLO, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-3
Speaker addresses risks of drunk driv-
ing. Page 2.

Arts & Living 5-6
[Am Sam reviewed. Page 5.
Perspectives 7-8

Don’t know what do do on Spring
Break? Tim Cook’s got ideas. Page 8.

Sports 9-12

Men’s and women’s basketball teams
head to Charleston for the Southern Con-
ference Tournament. Page 11.

‘

