is Week on ( Campus

Thursday, Nov. 14, 8 p.m., Duke Family Performance Hall
— Mostly Mozart Concert. Under the artistic leadership of Music
Director Christof Perick, the Charlotte Symphony Orchestra’s
(CSO) Mostly Mozart & Neighborhood Concert Series 2002-2003
brings an outstanding musical evening to the Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall. Learn more before you attend online at
www.mostlymozart.org, an exciting new interactive web site made
possible in part by the Knight Foundation’s Magic of Music
Initiative. This user-friendly web site includes sound clips, musical
facts, an electronic invitation, dining guide, bios and more. There will be a special $5
ticket price for students, and an $8 ticket for faculty.

Friday, Nov. 15, 7-9 p.m., Davidson College Presbyterian Church Fellowship
Hall - International Folk Dance. Free event open to students, faculty, staff, and
community. Dance instruction provided. Sponsored by Let’s Dance, a college and
community based co-op bringing intergenerational social and cultural dance to
Davidson. For more info, contact Alice Cross, 894-7582

TV, from page 5

look for Season Two tocome out early in 2003.”

Skip: ER. My freshman hall bonded by
watching this medical drama together on Thurs-
day nights. Despite my fond memories, I have
to admit that last season was inexcusably ter-
rible. The “Dr. Greene’s incurable brain cancer
is miraculously cured and then comes back to
kill him” story arc got less believable every time
itcame on the screen. The little I’ ve seen of the
new season hasn’t given me much hope for a
restoration to its former glory.

Recommended: Trading Spaces. If you
haven’t yet joined the TLC cult (which also
includes fans of A Wedding Story and A Baby
Story) this is the place to start. Two designers
work with two sets of neighbors and one car-
penter to redo one room in each house — in 48
hours, with $1000 as a budget. The results are
sometimes tacky, sometimes gorgeous, and al-
ways fun to watch. Trading Spaces airs at 4pm
most weekdays, and on Saturdays at 9pm on
TLC (The Learning Channel, cable only).

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Day

cocoa in a Davidson latte mug

“Careers in. . .”” Series:
(Sponsored by Career Services Office)
Careers in Consulting

Careers in Sports

Davidson and show your class pride!

- “Careers in..

throughout the academic year

Senior Experience Calendar

November/December 2002:

&_December 12": Senior Study Break/Reading ~

Recharge on Reading Day with some coffee or hot

in the 900 Room at 10PM, sponsored by RLO.

Wednesday, November 13, 7PM, 900 Room
Wednesday, December 4, 7PM, Sprinkle Room

The Senior Class Gift has reached 79% pledged + paid participation! If you have not
made your gift yet (participation is what counts—any amount is welcome); please
contact Shannon Bishop or Leroy Butler. Alternatively, you can log on to https://
www.davidson.edu/giving to make an online donation. If the Class of 2003 reaches
75% PAID participation, President and Mrs. Vagt will donate $12,003 on behalf of the
Senior Class Gift to the Annual Fund. Don’t miss your opportunity to support

-” Series continues with monthly events through April
- Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President’s Office, continue .

a column by the
Health Advisors

RELATIONSHIPS

Lauren Stutts: ©

Simply put: Relationships are hard. They are
stretched beyond capacity, are put on hold, and
metamorphose constantly. It’s hard to adjust
when relationships are cut or when new rela-
tionships are added. It’s like you are being
constantly rattled back and forth between them,
and you just want to find the right balance. We
can’t live without them, though. We just have
to try our best to hold on to quality relationships
and try to adapt when they change. I love the
quote by the psychiatrist Carl Jung about rela-
tionships: “The meeting of two personalities is
like the contact of two chemical substances: if
there is any reaction, both are transformed.”

Jenn Greene:

My esteemed fellow health advisors elected
me to write about love, presumably because I
exude vibes that reek of bliss. Lucky me...
Love is an amazing thing, but how do you
categorize it or make it understandable for
someone else? I’m not sure I can; all I can tell
you is how love has changed me.

Last year, I was on the verge of dropping out
school indefinitely. Over Christmas break, my
parents talked me into giving the new semester
a few more weeks. Then, the most remarkable
thing happened- Marc came back from Austra-
lia, brought me water from the Great Barrier
Reef, and we have been together ever since. He
has been my salvation and my rock, and with his
help, I have persevered.

Even now, as I look back to freshman year, I
can see how much I’ve changed over the past
year. Atlast, the pressure to impress has finally

_ been alleviated. I can wake up in the morning

with a mascara-induced raccoon mask, and
even though I shriek when I see myself in the
mirror, he sees beyond that. Ploys to get his
attention (i.e., drunken displays of debauchery)
aren’t necessary: covering my nose and batting
my eyes will do it every time, guaranteed.
Uncomfortable thongs and short short skirts
that keep riding up when getting one’s groove
on are a thing of the past. Iam very happy (and
super-cute) in my jeans and one of his t-shirts.

On

a more serious note, there is an unspoken level
of comfort that comes with the sort of commit-
ment and trust which I have come to know.
When I speak, he listens, though he can finish
my sentences before even I know how they’ll
end. That is priceless. Through bickering and
tears, laughter and thrills, there is something
solid that always prevails. I can only presume
that is love.

And for those of you who worry that, by
falling in love, you lose the giddiness that
comes with first infatuations, I can reassure you
that the goosebumps remain. Every time Marc
goes onto the hockey ice, Icrush on him all over
again.

Felicia Browne:

Lately it seems a lot of my relationships have
been going down the tubes. Without getting into
specifics, several people who I have put a lot of
faith and trust into have betrayed me—my
father, my brother, friends from back home, etc.

But to be quite honest with you, I am too busy
tocare. MaybeI am being selfish, but Ijustdon’t
have time to sit back and analyze how and why
things went wrong. If these individuals were to
apologize, I would forgive them in a heartbeat,
but I am not going to stop living my life because
of the demise of these relationships. Besides, I
know that no matter what happens, I will always
have a core group of people who I can rely on,
particularly my mother, and that’s all I really
need.

Tune in to the Body and Soul radio show on
Wednesday nights between 10:00-11:00 on
WALT 1610 AM: This week’s topic is “Rela-
tionships.”

***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South P Padre,
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acaputco, Florida & Mardigras.
TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+.

1 888 THINK SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626)
www.springbreakdiscounts.com ***

ask about our US Stylists
$20 cut & style

spa packages
hair services
ie |
nail care

body treatments

