DAVIDSON COLLEGE

VOLUME 94, NuMBER 5

Van returns:
with tighter
guidelines

By Matr GARFIELD
Managing Editor

The Vamonos Van will return to the road
on Thursday with new rules and no beer.

Administrators approved a new, stricter
set. of guidelines proposed by the SGA,
nearly two weeks after Davidson Town
Police ticketed six students for carrying
beer onto the van.

“T hate to call them ‘new’ policies, be-
cause it’s not new that you can’t have beer
onamoving car,” said SGA President Gray
Patterson. “There were a lotof assumptions
made by students that we never double-
checked, and that’s where we got burned.
We’ ve now resolved those assumptions.”

The rules—which will be permanently
posted inside the van—explicitly ban alco-
hol on board. Violators will face criminal
and Code of Responsibility charges.

Van drivers, who will now be trained in
advance by Campus Police officers, are

~~instracted to return the van to campus im-
mediately should problems arise.

“The driver’s primary responsibility
should be driving, not worrying about

"whether someone is sneaking beer on the
Vamonos Van,” Patterson said.

Administrators shut down the van for 1-1
days after local police discovered a cooler
of beer on board following a late-night
traffic stop on the night of Saturday, Sept.
21,

Managers at RJ Gator’s in Cornelius
called 911 to alert authorities that at least
one Davidson student boarded the van with
beer after dining at the restaurant,

“Police pulled the van over on Griffith

Street roughly 45 minutes later, after it had
eee Sas Te stu-
dents,
see. Van, page 3

From THE Heart: Paul Thorn-Keziah ’05 (left) and David Coffey ’04 donate
blood in Tuesday’ s ROTC drive. Coffey wore his finest shoes for the event.

F ishy JueKeroal, stunt leaves 30 ied

tothe small envelopes sitting eats their doers, soy

_ of one of my friends bi

“Teven said one

didn’t expect an hi

Returning to her room that morning; Morgan Zeosher Commando complaints involved that

nac ny ed 30 enveloped con-
Ses iffNichardson at 3:30 that

the afternoon of

During the game, “TE e girl who
was way faster” than any O8MS, said Bridget 06,
a 3rd Belk Commando (Lagt names of partici-

pants withheld upon request’ Jesse Sharp-Wil-
liams ’06 of the Goldfish said, “We scored like

ria '06 pied up the two gi Hl inher

during the gath

EAT Morale,” according to Tif-
ies hearing any trash-talking
s though other teammates ad-
mit there was some.
After the game, a’small number of 3rd Belk
girls decided to engage in a prank to raise their
morale. “My primary motive was to do some-
thing, to start a prank war. We wanted our team
to be proud of something,” Tiffany said.
After initially rejecting toilet-papering their

see Goldfish, page 2

First ronment regroup and recruit

By Ros HEmprick
Staff Writer

The problem is everywhere in our society, yet
it manages to escape the public forum on a

regular basis. Ironically, this lack of attention .

and understanding is precisely what allows it to
thrive to epidemic proportions. And now, a
small community of Davidson students aims to
combat the stigma and unspoken fear surround-
ing the issue simply by being there for their
fellow students.

The matter at hand is sexual assault, and the
students are the First Responders.

Our campus, despite its small size and close
community, is included in the number of places
where rape and sexual assault are ongoing prob-
lems. Compounded with the horrible nature of
these crimes is the tightly knit nature of the
Davidson community and the resulting ten-
dency towards the spread of rumors.

“You can easily run into conflicts,” says
Barbara Kauffman ’04, head of the First Re-
sponder program. “Campus is tiny. satiny take
sides, and people judge.”

The program began several years ago as a

means for students to be able to talk about such
deeply personal issues with fellow students ina
confidential environment. A key component of
the program is a pager carried by student volun-
teers 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Any
student seeking help or support with a problem
involving rape, sexual
assault or incest may .
dial the pager and ex-
pect an open listener
and a friendly source
of help.

“Whether it hap-
pened a year ago, a
month ago, last night,
First Responders do
everything from lis-

tening and being a

- friend to actually accompanying [the victim] to

a hospital,” summarizes Kauffman. “We know
all the options. We are basically there to offer
options.”

The second part of the program’s mission is
to raise awareness on campus about the issues

surrounding sexual assault. Because of the so-

cial stigma associated with these situations,

“No one on campus ts
aware of the frequency
of sexual assault.”

-Health Advisor Georgia Ringle

many individuals are unwilling to speak about
their experiences.

Georgia Ringle, a Davidson Health Educator
and advisor to the First Responders, is con-
cerned about the lack of communication on
sexual abuse.

“Unless someone
has had an experience
or knows someone
who has, it’s not nec-
essarily going to stick
with them,” she says.
“No one on campus is
aware of the fre-
quency.”

Another lack of
awareness that has
recently caused prob-

‘lems for the First Responders has been the

absence of publicity for the program itself.
Recently, program leaders learned that a great
deal of students, primarily upperclassmen, are
completely unaware of the program and its

-services.

see Responders, page 2

Council
debates Code
violation in
open trial

By AMEE PATEL
Staff Writer

Davidson’ s first open Honor Council hearing
in four years packed students into Perkins Audi-
torium last Wednesday night. Despite racket
from the never-ending Chambers construction,
issues stemming from the Code of Responsibil-
ity were heard loud and clear.

Stratton Lawrence ’03 denied responsibility
for underage drinking during a party held at his
off-campus house before the school year began.
Later that night, after leaving this party, fresh-
man Jackson Herlong was taken to the hospital
with alcohol poisoning.

As a result of Herlong’s hospitalization,
Lawrence, along with his four roommates, was
charged with violating Sections 3 and 13 of the
Code of Responsibility. Of the five, Lawrence
was the only one to hold an open hearing.

Section 3 states, “Social conduct is to be
based upon concern for others and must con-
form to high standards of courtesy and propri-
ety. Forexample, students have the obligation to
avoid any action which might impair the well-
being or reputation of guests.”

Section 13 explains, “‘acts which violate the
Code of Responsibility and which may occur
off campus may, in the discretion of the Dean of
Students and Student Solicitors, if available, be
grounds for disciplinary action by the College
under the procedures outlined in the Code of
Disciplinary Procedures.”

The construction on Chambers continued
through the night and could be heard over all of

see Trial, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
KA sponsors Blalock lecture, page 2

Arts & Living 5-6
Faculty art show (above), page 6
Perspectives 7-8

Ashcroft understands terrorism, page 8

Sports 9-12 —
Men’s soccer upends No. 2 Gamecocks
page 12

