Davipson COLLEGE

: Ps : nya
Dp wy
4 i
( ’

@ ALENDA LU

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 2

Past year's events
affect decisions to
study abroad

By Caro ine K. HAuseER
News Editor,

Flags on cars. Pictures of the Twin Towers on
dorm room doors. Months of planning for one
day. One year later, the impact of last year’s
terrorist attacks lingers, affecting students both in
their lives in Davidson and in their travel abroad.

Traditionally, Davidson boasts a particularly
high percentage of students who study abroad.
Last year, 127 Davidson students either had left
or were preparing to leave for a semester abroad
when the attacks occurred. In the spring, how-
ever, only 76 students went abroad, down from
97 the previous spring.

This fall, though, 195 students are studying
overseas, from Italy to India. Study Abroad
Coordinator Carolyn Ortmayer said, “Over-
all, people have been pretty low-key. More
students say their parents were concerned,
and we’ ve had several students who wanted
to participate in Davidson in India or study in
the Middle East whose parents have not al-
lowed it.” ;

In the reverse situation, international students
coming to Davidson are facing new legal issues.
This semester, two students were not able to
enroll due to visa delays or denials. One, from
Ethiopia, has had two siblings graduate from
Davidson, but is caught in a backlog of federal
security clearance.

“A lot of it is just sitting down with people and
explaining the situation,” said International Stu-
dent Advisor Sherri Spillman.

As of Sept. 11, 2002, a new interim visa
system will require schools to confirm that
international students have received an I-20
before issuing a student visa.

“Basically, it’s a student tracking system,”
said Spillman.

“T’m a little concerned about the learning
curve,” she said: “You’ ve got not only schools
but ports of entry, INS [Immigration and
Naturalization Service], the consulate, the

see Abroad, page 3

Bobby Lippert ‘04 foids the flag during ROTC’s Tuesday ceremony.

Thiele

Small but strong, ROTC prepares
students for careers in the military

By KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Every Tuesday, a small army infiltrates
Davidson. These camouflaged combatants
make up the Davidson ROTC.

During their years at Davidson, the 27
students in the Reserved Officer in Training
Corps attend classes dealing with “leader-
ship, tactical lessons, and problem solving
within the context of battle,” according to
Travis Lee ’04.

Under the tutelage of Major Pat Leslie,

students participate in physical training from °

6-7 a.m. Monday, Wednesday, and Friday.

They also take part in “Battle Labs” on Tues-
days (hence the BDU: Battle Dress Uniform).
All this extra time and effort does not go
unpaid. In return for service in the ROTC
during college, and a guarantee of four years
of service following graduation, the military
will cover 80 percent of the cost of school. In
the case of an institution like Davidson, that
is quite a payment.
According to Lee, most of the students who
enroll in ROTC are looking into a career in
the military, though others “just wanted to
serve anyway” and do not continue in the
service once the four year commitment is up.

see ROTC, page 3

Endowment stays strong despite shaky year

By BRANDON CARROLL
Staff Writer

In the past two years, and’especially since
Sept. 11, the economy has dipped into reces-
sion and areas of investment that reliably
have produced strong returns, such as the
stock market, have suffered.

Davidson has invested its endowment in
these markets, and that fund has been reduced
as a consequence of the sluggish economy.

The endowment, which provides money to
support athletics, student life activities, aca-
demic scholarships and other aspects of David-
son, stands at roughly $292, 337,000 as of
June 30, 2002: This is down a little more than
13 percent from the endowment’s all-time
high of $338,056,972 on Dec. 31, 2000.

While the endowment has lost a sizable
portion of its value, perspective is essential to
understanding the loss. Following years of
double-digit growth, after real inflation, the

endowment experienced a six percent loss in
the 2000-01 fiscal year.

Burton Hudson, Director of Investments
and Financial Planning, said that in 2001-02,
the endowment “declined 5.1 percent, net.
That compares with 10 percent in the Dow
Jones, or 18 percent in the S&P. Bonds [that
Davidson is invested in] were up 10 percent.
You have a real difference there.”

Burton explained the wisdom in diversify-
ing the college’s assets. “[We’re invested in]
lots of different ones: domestic common
stocks, 33 percent; international stocks, 11
percent; venture capital, 11 percent; bonds,

27 percent; real estate, 11 percent; andoiland -

gas six percent,” he said.

In this manner, Davidson’s investments
are somewhat protected against shifts in the
market. “The endowment is affected [by
market changes], but the diversification of
the asset base softens the impact,” said Bur-
ton. “The stock market may be down 20

percent, but bonds may be up 10 percent. If
different asset categories decline, others may
increase.”

The college has also been shifting money

since the late 1990s from stocks to fixed
income sources. :

According to Burton, “Fixed income is a
conscious decision by the finance committee
to take some money off the table and reduce
risk level,” a decision that came after riding
the boom of the 90s. :

Because the endowment provides money
for use in financial assistance, academic schol-
arships and athletic scholarships, concerns
about Davidson’s ability to remain finan-
cially competitive and meet all demonstrated
need are natural, given the endowment’s
shrinking size.

According the Nancy Cable, Dean of Ad-

missions and Financial Aid, “Davidson cur- .

rently distributes $11,002,542 in merit and
see Stocks, page 4

Counseling service

available for post-

traumatic stress

By Ma tory B. MAcDoNALD
Staff Writer

In communities around the world, flags
will fly at half-staff, and people will gather in
remembrance of Sept. 11. Here at Davidson
College, students, faculty and staff will par-
ticipate in discussions, silent prayer, and'self-
expression throughout the day. According to

‘psychologist and director of the Student Coun-

seling Center, Dr. David Staton, such expres-
sion is what rememberance is all about.

Everyone was affected by the events of
Sept. 11 in different ways and will remember
them differently, said Staton. His past expe-
rience with post-trauma situations allows him
to offer suggestions for the Davidson com-
munity during this time.

People around the campus might appear
more removed, more insecure, and less en-
thusiastic, said Staton. He stressed the impor-
tance of taking a positive stance by recogniz-
ing the feelings and their source, and by

~channeling. them into non-destructive ex-

pression. If the visual depictions of Sept. 11
are traumatizing, try to find other ways re-
member, Stanton suggests. For example,
share a poem or talk with friends.

The National Group of Counselors noted
that Sept. 11, 2001 caused anxiety for many
people and also increased rates of depression
and stress. The organization expects similar
emotional consequences during the anniver-
sary week.

Staton expects a large emotional response,
as well. A year ago, some students filtered
into the counseling office with personal sto-
ries andconcerns. Most people were ataloss *

see Stress, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

' photo courtesy of Andrew McKain

News 1-4
Andrew McKain spent last year in
Israel. See story, page 4.

Arts & Living 5,8

John Mayer performs at Belk Arena.
See story, page 5.

Perspectives 6-7

Davidson students and faculty responds
to the first anniversary of 9-11. See
story, pages 6-7.

Sports 9-12
Men’s soccer defeats champion Tar
Heels. See story, page 12. J

