Bus

REE RRS

SORE

Rookie Blue places 2nd in
133-pound weight class,
Coman earns 3rd place

By Brent McCormick AND Bossy KENNER

ESPN: swings and misses

Pe

with Around the Horn

ESPN is, and always has been, my favorite
television station.

And aside from Seinfeld reruns and Crank
Yankers episodes, my brief time in front of the
tube is still almost entirely devoted to this
incredible network.

As a kid—and surely plenty of you can
relate to this—days did not officially begin or
end until the latest edition of SportsCenter
was complete.

Indeed, ESPN is the greatest thing to hap-
pen to television since the remote control.

Not only does the network broadcast most
any sporting event (and the occasional Poker
championship or Spelling Bee), but as a nice
change of the pace ESPN created shows like
Outside the Lines and The Sports Reporters to
provide relief from the onslaught of live sports
coverage.

After all, variety is the spice of life.

Last October, the network stumbled upon
an absolute goldmine in the sports talk-show
Pardon the Interruption.

Affectionately known as PTI, the show
features Washington Post columnists Tony
Kornheiser and Michael Wilbon, who have

been debating each other in the Post sports -

pages for more than two decades.

Live and provocative, PTI is devoted exclu-
sively to sports opinions and headline issues
(such as Winona Ryder’s shoplifting scandal
or Britney’s love trouble), and includes guest
commentary from celebrity personalities rang-
ing from Dick Clark to Michael Jordan.

Not surprisingly, PTI has done remarkably
well, and with its 5:30 p.m. timeslot has be-
come.a before-dinner must for college stu-
dents nationwide.

But, greedy as network execs are, the big-
shots at ESPN, under the impression that one
good turn deserves another (which is only true
when playing blackjack), decided to create
another sports-related opinions show.

Enter Around the Horn, which airs week-
days just before PTI and is hosted by Max

)

3

3 We serve food until 2am
sy Open 7 Days a Week!

Kellerman, an obnoxious boxing analyst with
a Columbia degree and a heavy (read;,annoy-
ing) New York accent.

He is the Carson Daly of the sports world,
complete with gelled hair and repulsive facial
growth.

The show’s premier was delayed a week
due to technical difficulties—which is
understandble considering the set has more
gidgets and gadgets than a Russian space-
ship—and it should be delayed even longer
due to content.

Around the Horn throws four marquee sports
columnists from different American cities into
a mosh pit of debate via teleconference as
Kellerman presides over the chaos.

Points are then awarded based on
Kellerman’ s reaction to the columnists’ opin-
ion, and whoever has the most points at the end
earns the gold medal—how original.

Why ESPN ever thought this would work is
beyond me.

The show never really gets to the heart of
any issue, as the columnists are’ given barely
enough time to form a coherent thought, and it
seldom gets past the constant barrage of Den-
nis Miller-isms.

And aside from being entirely confusing,
Around the Horn lacks any creativity.

Kellerman’s show is basically just a combi-
nation of PTI and The Sports Reporters.

The show should really be called What Max
Kellerman Thinks, because in the end his
opinions are the only ones that actually matter.

Unfortunately for Kellerman, though, his
sports knowledge is often dwarfed by the likes
of Bob Ryan from The Boston Globe whose
sports expertise encompasses far more than

* just boxing.

And so, while ESPN has been a loyal friend
for so many years, I’m afraid our relationship
now takes a half-hour break each weekday at
5 p.m. when Kellerman and company pollute
television sets across the nation.

OASBOS™ XEXOK7

205 16{NIMAINTSTS
Surreyoor

Staff Writers

Davidson’s wrestling squad had a strong
showing this weekend at the UNC Pembroke
Classic.

The freshman class proved especially pro-
ductive as three rookies took top honors for the
team.

Henry Blue, weighing in at a svelte 133
pounds, dominated the competition and fin-
ished an impressive second in his group.

Blue’s title run was ended only by a stellar
performance from UNC Pembroke’s Cory
Pickard.

Another freshman, Patrick Coman, finished
the tourney with a third-place title as he navi-
gated his way to victory in the fiercely com-
petitive 125-pound weight class.

After an absolute domination of Anderson’s
Clyde Pollook (8-2) in his first match, Coman
fell in his second to Jordan Henning of
Campbell.

He battled back to win his next four matches,

well at Pembroke Cl.

which included two major ¢ decisions Aes one
pin, to finish third in the bracket. : i

Ronnie Lofrese, also a freshman, ‘rounded :
out the Davidson assault with a fourth-place .
finish.
Lofrese lost early in the championship
bracket but rallied with three victories, enter-
ing him into the consolation match.

Lofrese fought hard, but his run finally
finished with a 3-2 loss to Luke Francis of
Catawba.

Also performing well for the Davidson squad
was freshman Travis Hunter.

Hunter defeated J.P. McDonald 4-0 and
Kyle Devlin 2-0 before losing in the
quarterfinals of the 125-pound weight class.

It took the efforts of Coman to end Hunter’s
run, as his teammate handed him a loss in the
consolation round, proving the Wildcats’ domi-
nance of the 125-pound weight bracket. Hunter
finished in fifth place.

Freshmen John Pollak also contributed to
the Wildcat effort with three decisive victories
in the heavyweight bracket, and freshman
Matt Leonard posted two victories in the 141-
pound division.

Sophomore Brandon Zeigler notched a win
at 197 pounds for the Wildcats.

The ‘Cats return to the mats on Thursday,
Nov. 21, to compete in their first dual match of
the year.

Four football players earn
Academic All-District honors

Bergeron tabbed as first-
team selection, three others
garner second-team honors

Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

For the second straight year, Davidson de-
fensive lineman Blake Bergeron was selected
to the Verizon University Division Academic
All-District III Football First Team.

Three other Wildcats were honored as sec-
ond teamers.

Bergeron, a native of Nashville, Tenn., and
graduate of Montgomery Bell Academy, is a
psychology major and has posted a grade
point average of 3.57 through his first six
semesters.

-On the football field this past season,
Bergeron started all 10 games, contributing 14
tackles, including two for a loss and one sack.

He also recorded an interception against

Newberry and recovered a fumble to help -

Davidson to a 7-3 record and its fifth straight
winning season for just the third time in over
100 years of varsity football at the school.

The three Wildcats to make the second team
were junior offensive lineman Ken Franklin,
sophomore linebacker Brendan Dete and jun-
ior punter Chris Costello.

A native of Cumming, Ga., Franklin started
all 10 games at left tackle, protecting the blind
side of Davidson’ s career passing leader, Paul
Nichols. Franklin is an economics major with
a 3.70 GPA.

Dete, from Atlanta, Ga., has yet to declare ~
his major but sports a 3.73 GPA.

He enjoyed a terrific sophomore season,
ranking third on the team in tackles with 64
and second in tackles for loss with 11.5.

Dete also recorded five sacks and recovered
two fumbles, one of which he returned 82
yards for atouchdown.

An economics major from Solana Beach,
Calif., Costello has a GPA of 3.27.

For the 2002 season, Costello punted 48
times with a 38.2-yard average — third in the
Pioneer Football League — and a long punt of
59 yards. Costello also handled kickoff duties
from time to time.

Bergeron, and the rest of the first team, will
now be eligible for the national Academic All-
America team, which will be announced on
Dec. 2.

District II] is made up of all Division I and
I-AA schools in Florida, Georgia, North Caro-
lina, South Carolina and Virginia.

To be eligible, a player must have a cumu-
lative grade point average of 3.2 in the class-
room and be a starter or key reserve on the
field.

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www s-ststravel.com

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
: 110% Best Prices!

Florida, Texas.
Book Now and Receive
Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted!
1-800-234-7007 |
endlesssummertours.com

Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,

MOVIE EXTRAS/MODELS
NEEDED
Earn up to $150-$450/Day!
No experience necessary
_ CALL NOW FOR
IMMEDIATE EXPOSURE

R

1-800-814-0277
x1408 x |

