THE DavipsonIAN

ements taint win yl snnnnemamsinnibon

RLO investigating corn

“s

Syrup found in hallway

By Nick Asma
Senior Staff Writer

The Residence Life Office is currently con-
ducting an investigation into corn syrup that
was smeared on the first floor of Richardson
Hall on Friday, self-selection morning. The
action has led to extensive cleaning costs and
prompted many questions from RLO em-
ployees. No one, however, has been charged
with responsibility for the prank.

According to Leslie Urban, Associate Di-
rector of Residence Life, “RLO has not deter-
mined who is responsible and will continue to
speak with students and staff members until
we have gathered enough information to ren-
der a decision.”

Charges and punishment for the actions
have yet to be determined. The Physical Plant
will decide upon the final charges.

“We will not be pursuing Code of Respon-
sibility charges with any involved parties.
Instead, we seek only restitution for the dam-
ages and cleaning costs assessed to RLO by
Physical Plant,” notes Urban.

Men from 4" Richardson were originally
suspected of the offense, though hall counse-
lors Geoff King ‘03 and Mark Pustay ‘03
deny any involvement from those on their
hall. RLO has yet to question any of the
students from 4" Richardson, though Urban
did meet with both hall counselors and asked

Ue oe 3 y

them to speak with their residents about the
events and inform her of any pertinent infor-
mation.

Both King and Pustay, according to Urban’s
request, asked their residents about the corn
syrup, but they have now determined that
their hall was not involved in the incident.

“Tt turns out that the people who would
usually be involved in such an activity were
sound asleep,” commented King.

As Pustay points out, “If 4" Richardson did
it, why would we go down to 1* Richardson
to do it? There was a girl’s hall on 3"
Richardson as well.” He noted, “From exten-
sive investigation on my hall, all of the infor-
mation I have accrued indicates that nobody
on my hall had anything to do with the inci-
dent.”

“Tam afraid that this incident is giving my
hall a bad name. I trust the people on my hall
when they say that they had nothing to do
with it...and I have to say their story checks
out. I hope that the people who really did this
grow up and admit to it before it ruins a good
tradition.”

As of yet, Urban notes, “RLO has not _
punished 4" Richardson, nor is that our inten-
tion.” Whether they are residents of
Richardson or not, the perpetrators will likely
face heavy fines that RLO will impose to
demonstrate their intolerance and to prevent
such a situation from occurring again.

aoe

Brighten
Your
Future

