Dete, defense dominant as football | rolls over

Wildcats force six
turnovers to win
second straight

By Matt GarFIELD
Managing Editor

The Davidson defense caused six turnovers
in Saturday’s 34-7 victory over Newberry.
But it was the first one that- made all the
difference in the game.

The Indians had driven deep into Wildcats’
territory late in the first quarter, threatening to
score the game’s first points and put Davidson
in an early hole.

That’s when senior Ryan Tennis burst past
his blocker and into Newberry quarterback
Brian Shealey, knocking the ball loose and
directly into the hands of an unsuspecting
Davidson linebacker.

Showtime, Brendan Dete.

Dete, a 6-foot, 220-pound sophomore from
Marietta, Ga., scooped up the ball and rumbled
82 yards for a touchdown in what seemed like
the longest run of his life.

“I was just standing there, thinking, ‘Oh
wow, Tennis has a sack.’ Next thing I know,
the ball is in my hands,” said Dete. “I just took
off. I’m not the fastest guy in the world. It took
me a while to get there.”

“T’ve never returned a fumble before,” he
went on to say. “My first thought was, ‘Oh my
gosh, what do I do?’”

He started down the field and, after fellow
linebacker Daryl Childers blocked the closest
Newberry pursuer, Dete had an open lane to
the end zone for his first career score.

“T started looking around, seeing if some-
one was going to catch me,” said Dete. “(After
Childers’ block), I thought, ‘Geez, I’ ve got to
score now.’”

By the time Dete caught his breath on the
sideline the Wildcats had taken a 7-0 lead and,
just as importantly, dealt a demoralizing blow
to the Indians’ offense. Seven minutes later
the lead grew to 24-0, and the game was never

Field hockey drops two of three

By Becca McDevitt
- Staff Writer

After defeating Appalachian State in a stel-
lar 3-1 win last Wednesday, the field hockey
women faced two challenging teams over the
weekend. The Richmond Spiders and Towson
Tigers both proved too much for the ‘Cats,
who now stand with a record of 4-3 on the
season.

The Cats’ win against Appalachian, the 46"
meeting between the schools, enabled them to
remain undefeated in the NorPac conference.
The Wildcats now lead the all time series 24-
20-2, although the last time they had defeated
Appalachian State was on Oct. 27, 2000.

Davidson grabbed the early advantage, as
junior Kathleen Fenn scored off of a penalty
comer from seniors Jess Barton and Allison
Matlack with 27 minutes left in the first half.
Courtney Hughes added to the Cats’ lead with
12 minutes remaining when she delivered her
first collegiate goal.

After clearly dominating the first half, the
‘Cats suffered a small setback in the begin-
ning of the second frame when Appalachian’s
Emily Walls:scored a goal off of a fast break
situation.

The ‘Cats answered with 12:38 remaining
in the game, when Matlack secured Davidson’s
win with an unassisted goal.

Davidson held Appalachian to. only four
shots in the game. Sophomore goalie Sarah
Nolan added to the defensive effort by making
one save. ,

Offensively, Davidson took 11 shots on
goal and had 10 penalty corners. The team’s
seniors proved to be the dominating force for
Davidson as Agnes Bateman, Alex Rogers,
and Matlack demonstrated their offensive skill
while the defensive stick work of Barton pre-
vented the Mountaineers from generating
much offense.

Assistant coach Alejandro Loynaz com-
mented, “We definitely controlled this game.
We were able to score first, and we spent the
majority of the second half trying to maintain
the lead. Unfortunately Appalachian scored a
goal off of a fast break, but we emphasized the
importance of simply maintaining possession
in the second half. Jess Barton was our deliv-
erer in this game. Whenever we’ re in trouble,
Jess relieves us and gains the ball back.”

Following their win over Appalachian State,
the ‘Cats headed north to take on the Rich-
mond Spiders.
dominated the game and won 3-0.

Richmond’s Emma Bradley led the Spiders
to victory with her two first collegiate goals.

Unfortunately, the Spiders |

With 30:47 left in the first half, she scored off
a penalty corner, and three minutes later deliv-
ered recorded her second tally to give Rich-
mond a lead it would never relinquish.

Unlike the Appalachian State game, the
‘Cats were unable to control possession against
Richmond. The Spiders took 15 shots on goal,
while holding Davidson toa single shot. Rich-
mond also dominated the penalty corners, with
16 to Davidson’s three.

Richmond goalie Michelle Swartz finished
the game with her second shutout of the sea-
son. Nolan made 8 saves for the ‘Cats in the
losing effort.

Davidson concluded the week with a frus-
trating 4-1 loss against the Towson Tigers on
Sunday afternoon. Towson dominated the
game from the start. Hardly two minutes into
the match, the Tigers scored off a penalty
corner and would to dominate for the remain-
der of the game.

Davidson’s seniors once again demon-
strated their importantrole on the team. Barton
assisted Matlack on.a goal with two minutes
remaining to avoid the shutout. The goal was
Matlack’s second of the season.

Towson delivered 12 shots on goal, while
Davidson dished out six. Towson goalie, Loren
Wolf, made four saves, while Davidson’ sNolan
had six saves.

Davidson returns to action this weekend
with two games against Southwest Missouri
State. Saturday’s game is scheduled to begin at
1p.m., and Sunday’s match is set to start at 11
a.m.

Kung-fu iMornks spate)

Sep cipanapaeas
of martial arts experience

Com

Judo ¢ Swordsmanship |

tte

in doubt.
Dete finished with nine tackles and a sack to

- go along with the fumble recovery, highlight-

ing a dominant performance by the Wildcats’
defense.

“The key this week was we finally got some
turnovers,” said senior linebacker Jim Carney,
who tied Dete with nine tackles. “That was
something Coach (Toop) really challenged
our defense to do. We’d been playing good
defense, but maybe not as aggressively. Six
(turnovers) is always a lot. The first one was
huge. I don’t think they ever recovered.”

Newberry, a Division II scholarship team,
was bigger and deeper than the non-scholar-
ship Wildcats, but Carney said he barely no-
ticed.

“TJ doubt we'll play a team this year that
we’ ll be as big as,” he said. “But we’re a fast
team and we play hard. We out-hustle a lot of
teams, and we don’t worry about size.”

As seniors, Carney and Tennis were ex-
pected to spearhead the Wildcats’ defense.
They’ve been joined by Dete, a sophomore,
who Carney says has a special knack for the

game.

“He’s one of the smartest players ito
with,” he said. “He’s a great tackler and pass
rusher. He’s gonna be a great player for a
while.”

After losing two yards on their first three
possessions combined, the Wildcats offense
got on track late in the first quarter. Senior
quarterback Paul Nichols completed his first
pass of the evening to freshman Chalin’ Aswell
for 34 yards, allowing sophomore tailback
John Leverett to take the ball into the end zone
from one yard out for a 14-0 lead.

Nichols earned his 10th careér 200-yard
passing game, connecting on 13-of-28 passes
for 238 yards, a touchdown and two intercep-
tions.

Seven different Wildcats caught passes, with
senior tight end Mike Chase and junior re-
ceiver Randall Hardy each hauling in three.

Kicker Daniel Hanks set a Davidson record
by attempting five field goals, and with 10
points in the game, he also moved into third
place on Davidson’s all-time scoring list with
169 points.

Davidson (2-1) vs.
Saturday, 1 p.m.
The History:

The Wasps own a 9-3 advantage all-time
versus Davidson, but the Wildcats have won
the last two meetings, with the most recent
coming in last year’s 23-6 road victory.

In that game, tailback John Leverett scored
ona 19-yard TD run to open the scoring. Paul
Nichols threw touchdown passes to Mike
Chase and Randall Hardy, and Daniel Hanks
added a field goal.

Safety Graham Elmore had two intercep-
tions to hold the Wasps at bay. Emory &
Henry finished in second place in the Div. III
Old Dominion Athletic Conference last year
with a 5-5 record.

The Teams:

Emory & Henry is located in Emory, Va.,
near Roanoke and has an enrollment of 950
students.

The Wasps return 15 starters and have
posted wins over Ferrum and Sewanee after

E&H trailed Hampden Sydney 24-7 in the
fourth quarter last Saturday before mounting
a stunning comeback to win 25-24. Tailback
Dan Hammonds scored three touchdowns.
Quarterback Shannon Johnson finished the
game with 61 yards on 15 carries, plus 143
yards in the air.

Davidson’s defense forced: six turnovers in
Saturday’s 34-7 blowout of Newberry, in-

Ene

dropping their season opener to Methodist. —

cluding an 82-yard fumble return by line-

& Hent
chardson

2-1
alam

backer Brendan Dete. Wideout Barrett
Johnson also scored on a 64-yard TD recep-
tion.

The Coach:

Lou Wacker is in his 20" year at the school,
and has led the Wasps to 11 conference titles
and five trips to the NCAA playoffs.

In 1998, the Wasps finished the season
undefeated, and until 1999, the team held a
37-game winning streak at home, the best in
the nation. E&H boasts one South Region |
Championship and 37 All-Americans since
1982.

Mike Toop is in his second year as David- |
son head coach and owns a 7-5 record.

|
What to Expect: |

With the exception of last season, most
every game between these two teams has
been tightly contested. After Saturday’s huge
win over Hampden Sydney, the Wasps should
come in confident and eager to avenge last
year’s loss.

But Davidson’s defense has come alive in
the past two weeks, with dominating perfor-
mances against Jacksonville and Newberry.

Expecta close, hard-fought game that may
come down to whichever team can capitalize
on turnovers. °

-Matt Garfield

¢ Kung Fu « Karate

Visit our website:

Wes py. Bx ie

Traditional Martial Arts of Huntersville

