THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 13, 2002

Field hockey places third at NorPac Championships

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

In the final game of their collegiate careers, the Davidson
field hockey seniors dominated the field and led the ‘Cats toa
3-2 victory over St. Louis.

The consolation game against St. Louis occurred Friday, the
day after Stanford University eliminated the ‘Cats from the
conference championship match.

Stanford defeated Davidson 3-1, and after their win against
St. Louis, the Cats concluded the season with an overall record
of 8-13.

Senior Jess Barton scored the lone goal for the ‘Cats in the
game against Stanford. Prior to the contest, Barton was named
NorPac Conference Defensive Player of the Year.

Barton started every game of her collegiate career, during
which she tallied 17 goals and 8 assists. She was also named

game Friday

first team all-conference.
Throughout her career, Barton consistently played with a
high level of intensity and skill. Barton’s dedication to and

Sports Information
Senior members of the field hockey team Played their last

skill level for the game made her a well-deserved recipient of
the award.

Kathleen Fenn, another defensive standout for Davidson,
was also honored at the NorPac Conference Awards Cer-
emony.

Fenn, ajunior, was named second team all-conference for the
second consecutive year. As the leading scorer for the ‘Cats
this season, Fenn started every game and tallied 7 goals and 1
assist.

Davidson and Stanford took to the soggy turf field last
Thursday in Palo Alto, CA.

Throughout the first half, both teams fought hard on defense
to prevent any scoring.

Stanford held Davidson to no shots, while the Cardinals were
able to take 6 shots on goal.

In the second half, Stanford picked up the intensity and
scored two goals only minutes apart.

The Wildcats responded with their own
goal, as Barton pushed a penalty.shot by the
Cardinal goalie.

Although the ‘Cats got on the board, they
were unable to pull off a win.

The Cardinals sealed the victory with
their third goal within minutes of the final
whistle. Morgan crossed the ball to Billmyer,
who put it away for a 3-1 concluding score.

Stanford dominated the offensive oppor-
tunities with 13 shots and 9 penalty corners.
The ‘Cats were held to three shots and only
one penalty corner.

Not intimidated by Stanford’ s impressive
statistics, the Wildcats played with heart and
intensity.

Molly Blackman and Allison Matlack led
Davidson on the defensive end of the field.
With their help, Sarah Nolan held the Cardinals to three goals,
and made 4 saves in cage.

The following day, the Cats faced the Billikens of St. Louis,

who lost their first round game to Radford, 5-0.

The name of the game between Davidson and St. Louis was
finishing.

The seniors of the team knew that the game was their final
collegiate opportunity to demonstrate their skills, and they
held nothing back in pursuing their goal of a season-ending
victory.

The Billikens scored the first goal of the game at the 9:23
mark when Lindsay Lombardo maneuvered past the Davidson
defense for an unassisted goal.

Two minutes later, Carin Boone accomplished the same
feat, giving St. Louis a 2-0 advantage.

Davidson pulled together to score two goals before the first
half concluded.

Senior Alex Rogers dribbled the ball all the way up the field
and fired a shot past the St. Louis goalie.

Freshman Emily Davis followed in Rogers’ footsteps as she
drove another unassisted goal through the Billikens’ defensive
unit.

Barton came to the rescue for the ‘Cats with seven minutes
remaining by nailing a penalty stroke into the cage.

The ‘Cats were given the stroke when St. Louis’ goalie
covered the ball after a Davidson shot.

Davidson maintained control of the game, taking 13 shots to
St. Louis’ three, and seven penalty corners to the Billikens’
five.

Nolan made one save in the game, giving her a season total
of 160 saves, and earning her third place in Davidson’s record
books for the number of single-season saves.

The true stars of the game, however, were the five seniors.

With every season-ending game, one hopes that the seniors
of the team will end on a good note.

For these five players, that is exactly what happened.

Alex Rogers, Jess Barton, Allison Matlack, Agnes Bateman,
and Amanda Strickland knew what they needed‘to‘do, when
they needed to do it, and they always maiiaged. to do it.

Good luck to each of you, and congratulations to the team for
ending the season with an exciting victory.

Men’s soccer falls to Furman, now prepares for SoCon tournament

By GEorF FEHLING
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team fell on Sunday to nationally
ranked Furman, 3-0, in its last regular season game.

With the final game finished, the “Cats end their season with

’ arecord of 9-6-4 overall, 5-2-1 in the conference.

The win for the 7"-ranked Paladins improves their record to
15-2-1 overall and a perfect 8-0 in the Southern Conference.

Furman wasted no time in getting on the scoreboard with
two quick goals midway through the first half.

It looked as if the Wildcat defense would keep the deficit at
two going into halftime, but the Paladins managed to get
another goal a few minutes before the half ended.

The first half was not without a few key defensive plays by
Davidson.

Johnson had two crucial penalty kick saves that kept the
Wildcats in the game. He stopped Anthony Esquivel’s kick at
10:37, as well as Moor’s penalty kick at 20:53.

The Paladins were unable to score in the second half as
Davidson stepped up and contained the Furman offense.

The defensive battle was led by sophomore goalie Bart
Creasman, who tallied three saves after he entered the game at
the start of the second half.

Davidson’ s offense had trouble producing shots and scoring
opportunities as they took only three shots the entire game,
compared to Furman’s 14.

“It was a physical game played on a very soft
field,” explained Wildcat head coach Matt Spear.
“The Davidson players that stepped their games up
in these conditions were Will Carroll, Justin Porter,
John Latting, and David Sartorio. Bart Creasman
was also good in the goal for the second half.

“In the second half, we showed greater spirit,”
continued Spear, “and we will need to carry that
forward into the conference tournament this week-
end.”

Undefeated Furman will take the first seed, fol-
lowed by Appalachian State and Davidson in the
second and third seeds, respectively.

“We are disappointed to give up No.2 in the
conference’s regular season standings,” said Spear.
“Even with some unfortunate results earlier in the
season, we pride ourselves in pushing for the confer-
ence regular season No.1 spot.”

Davidson’s 3" rank in the SoCon has them sched-
uled to face off against 6" seeded Georgia Southern
for their tournament opener on Nov. 15" at 7 p.m.

Georgia Southern is 2-14-2 on the season and 1-5-
2 in the conference.

Davidson last faced the Eagles on October 19",
resulting in a 1-1 tie. This year’s tournament will be
held at Patriots Point in Mount Pleasant, SC.

In their last matches of the regular season, men’s
soccer fell to Wake Forest last Tueaday and Furman
on Sunday.

i 0) ie ee

The Davidsonian

Player of the Week |

Jessica Barton ‘o3

Field Hockey
Hometown: Hummelstown, eenneyivahinis

Major: Economics

Barton was named Defensive Player

Wrestling at Pembroke Classic (th

Men's Soccer vs. Georgia Southern at South

day) All Day |
n Confe

Volleyball @ Appalachian State

Swimming at UNCW
Volleyball at East Tennessee State

of the Year in the NorPac’s

Men's and Women’s Cross Country at NCAA South

Tournament in Mt. Pleasant, SC 7:00 p.m.

7:00 p.m.

y

Men's Basketball vs, Vasda USA (exhibition)

Region Championships in Greenville, NC
12:00 p.m.
2:00 p.m.

3:00 p.m.

East division and also garnered first-team all conference honors.
Starting every game of her collegiate career, Barton has scored’15
goals and added eight assists in four years at Davidson.

