RESTAURANTS IN DAVIDSON

The Soda Shop, Main Street, is a David-
son institution and serves fantastic old-fash-
ioned milkshakes. Their hamburgers, sand-
wiches and fries make a satisfying but in-
creasingly expensive meal.

Ben and Jerry’s, Main Street, doesn’t
really need any other explanation (unless
you’ ve never heard of the fabulous Vermont
ice cream). Keep your eyes open for promo-
tions like Free Cone Day.

Fuel Pizza Café, South Main Street, has
a noisy, stripped-down interior and decent
pizza for good prices. Their calzones are
probably the best thing on the menu.

Knead It!, South Main Street, is a won-
derful bakery/café with excellent breads,
soups, sandwiches and baked goods. Their
cookies are fantastic! A great place for break-
fast if you’re up for a little walk.

Davinos Restaurant and Bar, 231
Griffith Street (next to CVS), is another
Italian place with the usual pizza, spaghetti
and calzones. ,

RESTAURANTS OUTSIDE
DAVIDSON —

Zapata’s Cantina, I-77: Exit 28. This
popular Mexican restaurant serves tasty
fajitas, enchiladas and tacos. The low prices
get even better when you get the Davidson
student discount (bring your Davidson ID
and be sure to ask about student prices).

Fuzion, Shops on the Green, I-77: Exit
28. One of Bobby Vagt’s personal favorites,
it serves a diverse and fun menu. It’s not
cheap, but it’s worth it.

Lotus, I-77: Exit 28. A popular Chinese
restaurant with good vegetarian options and
friendly management.

South End Brewery, I-77: Exit 28. This
is a bit more up-scale than some of the other
listings, but still reasonable considering the
high quality food you get. .

Kudzu, 259 S. Broad Street, Mooresville.
This excellent but expensive restaurant is a
good place to take a date you really want to
impress. Another Bobby Vagt favorite.

Chick Fil-A, I-77: Exit 25 and Exit 36. If
you’ re from a region of the country that only
has KFC, you need to try this vastly superior
chicken chain. Their waffle-shaped fries are
also a step above the usual fast-food fare.

Waffle House, I-77: Exit 28 and Exit 36.
A perennial favorite for an inexpensive late-
night study break. Some Davidson students
are on a first-name basis with the night staff.
Open 24 hours.

McAlister’s Deli, I-77: Exit 25. This is a
great place for a lighter meal, if you just want
a sandwich ora bowl of soup. Their sweet tea
is famously good.

Carrabba’s, I-77: Exit 25. High-quality
Italian that goes beyond red-sauce spaghetti
and limp pizza.

close to campus

A first-year student’s guide to all the restau-
rants, movie theatres, and shopping centers

By Linpy BALDWIN
Arts and Living Editor

Outback Steakhouse, I-77: Exit 25. If
you’re hungry for red meat, this chain serves
reliable steaks with the usual side dishes like
deep-fried onions.

Mickey and Mooch, I-77: Exit 25. A
nice, and somewhat expensive, restaurant
that serves good steaks and pasta (and an
awesome Caesar salad). Terrible location,
though; right in the middle of a shopping
center.

Cracker Barrel, I-77: Exit 36. Not ex-
actly a health-food store, but a good place to
indulge a craving for stereotypical country
cooking.

SHOPPING

Wal-Mart, I-77: Exit 36. A huge, confus-
ing labyrinth, but if you’ve got a lot to buy
you’ll probably find everything here.

Target, I-77: Exit 25. Many students
prefer this discount superstore, and think

Target is less confusing and has better quality
than Wal-Mart.

Staples, I-77: Exit 36. Better than Wal-
Mart or Target for shelves or office electron-
ics.

Birkdale Village, I-77: Exit 25. This
collection of shops is the place to find the
Gap, Banana Republic, Pier One and other
such stores. They also have a movie theatre
and some restaurants.

Main Street Books, Main Street. A
friendly, pro-browsing place where you can
usually find the bestsellers along witha couple
choices you might not have heard of.

Barnes and Noble, I-77: Exit 25. ‘Tf Main
Street Books doesn’t have it, this store prob-
ably will. Opening soon!

Harris Teeter, I-77: Exit 28. AKA Taj
M’ Teeter, this massive grocery store is a fun
place to head if you have any midnight
cravings. Open 24 hours.

Concord Mills, I-85: Exit 49, Concord
Mills Blvd. This is probably one of the
largest malls you’ll ever see; it has a movie
theatre, food court and shops galore.

MOVIE THEATRES

AmStar, I-77: Exit 36. You can buy
discount tickets for this place at the Union
Desk. Unfortunately, it’s become a popular
hangout for scores of giggly preteens.

Movies at the Lake, I-77: Exit 28. Good
student rates, comfortable theatres, and all
the most popular new releases. The location
at Exit 28, right in the middle of most of our
Restaurant recommendations, is a bonus for
the “dinner-and-a-movie” crowd.

Birkdale Village, I-77: Exit 25. Although
it plays the major studio releases, this is also
a good bet if you’re looking for fare that’s
more exotic than Spider-Man. For true art-

_ house movies, however, you’ ll probably have

to go into Charlotte.

AMC 24 at Concord Mills, I-85: Exit 49,
Concord Mills Blvd. This gigantic multi-
plex is a bit further afield than the others, but
older releases may still be playing here when
they’ve moved out of the smaller theatres.

RECORD STORE

There’s a shortage of places to buy music
around Davidson, but Sam Goody and Wal-
Mart at I-77: Exit 36 are ok. A&L editor
Chris Schmader recommends Charlotte’s
Manifest Records.

CLUBS

The best-known local club is Club Ver-
-_ tigo, I-77: Exit 28. (You may have seen their

signs around campus the first weekend.) It
does have a dress code, so do at least minimal °
primping before heading out. For more op-
tions, head into Charlotte. ~

CULTURAL ATTRACTION

The North Carolina Auto Racing Hall of
Fame, I-77: Exit 36. That’s right, you’re
deep in the heart of NASCAR country now!
This place is a good way to gain more appre-
ciation for the local secular religion, stock car
racing (provided, of course, you want to do
that). North Carolina is the greatest stock car
racing state in the union, after all.

