By Mike Giciio
Staff Writer

After a 15-17 finish last year and the resig-
nation of its head coach in May, the Davidson
Volleyball team worked hard thrdughout the
off-season to ensure that the upcoming cam-
paign would get off to a positive start.

Led by new head coach Tim Cowie and
new assistant coach Ann Leedy, the Wildcats
entered their first test of the season this past
weekend at the Robert Morris King’s Classic
in Moon Township, Pennsylvania, hoping to
begin working on their goals of surpassing
last year’s record and finishing well in what
should be a very formidable Southern Con-
ference.

Taking three of four games in the tourna-
ment, the ‘Cats appear to be well on their way
. towards accomplishing those goals. They
began the weekend with a victory over
Niagara, led by sophomore Julia Hueckel’s
team-high fifteen kills and strong perfor-
mances from senior Rebecca Teichgraeber
and junior Latisha Chapman.

The team kept up its solid play in the
second game of the event, soundly defeating
Navy in just over one hour. Chapman,
Hueckel, and Teichgraeber again led the way,
with Chapman posting a .474 attack percent-

age. Senior Roberta Quis, last year’s co- .

MVP, also made her presence felt as she
recorded seven kills and took part in three
blocks.

The Wildcats took a step back in Saturday’s
first match, however, suffering their first loss
of the season to Stony Brook in a game which
coach Cowie says his team let get away. “We
didn’t play as well against Stony Brook and
let one slip, but we were nonetheless able to
put it all together and beat the host school
Robert Morris in the next match,” Cowie

~ noted.

Saturday evening’s victory over Robert
Morris, who has been to the NCAA tourna-
ment each of the past three years, was due in
large part to the dominating middle play of

: ree wins i in opening weekend |

Quis and Chapman, as Quis recorded sixteen
kills and took part in five blocks while
Chapman posted twelve putaways and to go
along with seven blocks.

“The middle is definitely our strength,”
Cowie said. “Both Tish and Roberta domi-
nated and made the difference in our wins.”

The team used the tournament to make
valuable assessments on its strengths and

weaknesses and to provide an opportunity for .

the players to gel both with one another and
with the new coaches. According to coach

‘Cowie, the team did just that.

“A lot of the focus of this weekend was on
getting used to the new coaching staff,” he
says. “The team responded well.”

With this weekend’s victories fresh in their
minds, the players and coaches have high
hopes for the season ahead. Roberta Quis
reflected this positive mindset. “Our season
is off to a great start .We were able to see the
rewards of all those hours spent in the gym
during the preseason. Everyone is looking
forward to a great season.”

Teichgraeber agrees, “This weekend’s re-
sults were a good jumping-off point that will
hopefully set the tone for the rest of our
season. While the competition was not the
best we will face, it’s always nice to get a few
wins on the board in order to ease into our
schedule with a feeling of confidence.”

As they face a tough schedule throughout
the year, the ‘Cats will need to use that
confidence to drive them to victory. Confi-
dence and focus will’be the keys to the suc-
cess of the team.

“We’re going to approach the season from
one match to the next and focus on each
individual game as it comes along,” Cowie
commented. “We’ll be right in the fight for
the conference championship as long as we
can stay healthy and keep working hard.”

Davidson returns to action this weekend
when they host the Wildcat Classic. Action
begins Friday evening and will conclude next
Tuesday, as the ‘Cats take on Coastal Caro-
lina, Southeastern Louisiana, North Carolina
A&T and Furman.

Former NYU coach takes
reigns of volleyball program

A new era of Davidson volleyball starts in
2002 as Tim Cowie takes hold of the reigns.
For the past two years, Cowie was in charge
of New York University’s women’s volley-
ball team. Last season, the Division III Vio-
lets finished 17-14 overall, including wins
over NCAA Division II Pace University, as
well as University
Athletic Association
‘rivals Brandeis,
Rochester, Chicago,
Case Western and
then-number-one-
ranked Washington
University.

In his rookie cam-
paign at NYU,
Cowie led the Vio-
lets to a 22-12 overall record, including a
first-place finish at the Scranton Invitational,
a second-place finish at the SUNY-Oneonta
Red Dragon Invitational and a third-place
finish at the UAA Championships. e

For his efforts, Cowie and his assistants,
Christa Rosa and Stacey Moline, were named

-UAA Co-Coaching Staff of the Year. While
at New York University, he recruited stu-

dent-athletes that included All-Americans,
NCAA All-Regions, an NCAA All-Region
Freshman of the Year and UAA All-Confer-
ence players.

Cowie joined NYU after four seasons as

head coach of the nationally-recognized
women’s volleyball team at the Rochester
Institute of Technology. While at R.LT.,
Cowie led the Tigers to a 125-43 overall
record. His teams earned four consecutive
NCAA Division III Tournament bids and
advanced into the second round all four years.

His first collegiate head-coaching experi-
ence came during the 1995-96 season. Cowie
served as coach of the men’s volleyball club

team at the University of Rochester and led’

the program to its first-ever winning season
with a 14-3 record.

A 1988 graduate of Roberts Wesleyan
College with a degree in business administra-

tion, Cowie held many positions at his alma .

mater. He was an assistant women’s volley-
ball coach at RWC from 1985-88 and went on
to become the men’s basketball assistant coach
(1989-1994). He returned to women’s vol-
leyball during the 1995-96 season.

In addition to his responsibilities at
Davidson, Cowie serves on the NCAA Vol-
leyball Rules Committee. He is also a voter
onthe AVCA (American Volleyball Coaches
Association) Coaches Poll and All-America
Committee. :

A native of Oshawa, Ontario, Cowie and
his wife Gwen have three children - Emmily
(5), Tim Jr. (3) and Ryan (1).

--Sports Information

Nees freon pee ete

Classic. The Wildcats tied Lehigh 121-Pri-

0 Sunday afternoon.

Only 69 minutes into the season, fresh-
man David Sartorio gave the Wildcats their
first goal, assisted by junior Nick Hansell.
Lehigh struck back with a late goal and the
teams remained at a stalemate after regula-
tion.

Both teams managed only two shots on
goal in the extra frame, and the match ended
in a 1-1 tie. A strong showing against a
well-organized team like Lehigh, however,
was a good way to start the regular season.

“Tt was a great game and a well deserved

tie for both teams,” explained head coach

Matt Spear after the game. “Hansell showed
excellent composure in setting up our goal.
Overall, we’re happy with how we played,
especially against an es team like
Lehigh.”

The team was pleased with the well:
earned tie, but immediately began prepar-
ing for their next match against the tourna-
ment host.

Wearing down the Black Knights in the
first half, Davidson eventually struck first
as Hansell took a pretty pass from freshman
Matt Allen to givethe ‘Cats an early advan-
tage that they would not relinquish.

_ Hansell notched his second goal of the

day evening and knocked off host ae ‘oe
: ‘division-one soccer.

‘and Army.

‘upperclassmen to display strong leadership

perclassmen displayed complementing ex-

hip
freshmen stepping up to the challenge of

“We are excited to win the tournament by
defeating a hard-working Army side,” com-
mented Spear. “It’s always atough game on
the road, and the history of West Point only
added to the obstacle at hand.”

Senior goalkeeper Soren Johnson, who
recorded his 14th career shutout against
Army, made five saves against both Lehigh

Having lost eight seniors and seven start-
ers to ‘graduation, Spear will look for the

and forthe freshmen to step up when needed.

“Captains David Peoples and Joel Sadler,
along with goalie Soren Johnson have done
a great job to bring the group together
quickly,” said Spear. “Our freshmen showed
confidence and composure, while the up-

perience and maturity,” he stated.

The Wildcats return to action on Satur-
day night when they travel to Chapel Hill to
take on the defending national Nios ies
Tar Heels.

“The past two seasons we have enjoyed
very good 11-8 seasons,” added Spear, “but
we look forward to starting over with new
goals and a fresh approach.”

FAMILY CUTS

Hair Salon
(Under New Management)

704-896-8440

.

Haircuts - Color - Styling - Perms - Waxing

No Appointment Necessary
{Recommended for color and perms)

Open 7 Days a Week
Mon-Fri. 9:00a.m.-8:00p.m.
Saturday 9:00e.m.-6:00p.m.

Sunday

1:00p.m.-5:00p.m.

20121 #C North Main St. Comelius
Cornetius Town Center :
Exit 28 (115 and Catawba Ave.)
Located near the Food Lion

Food Lien
Famity Cuts

Hoy 118

‘Yorn tet
ee)

Exit 28]

Cutwwise Awe

Retail and Skin care Products available.
_ 10% off all services to Davidson Students

| se |

Stylists: Kim, Ashley, Dana

20% OFF

expires O8/S02
