Speaker, movie to shed

light on persecution of dis-
abled during Holocaust

By JuLiz Gorr. .
Staff Writer

Since the Holocaust, few people have under-
stood the severity of the crimes against disabled
people in Nazi Germany. Still fewer under-
stand how that persecution translates into the
way disabled are treated today:

But members of the Davidson community
will have the opportunity to learn more about
this tragedy and its remnants next week when
Simi Linton, founder and president of Disabil-
ity/Arts and a Switzer Distinguished Fellow,
visits Davidson to screen the award-winning
documentary film Liebe Perla. Linton is cur-
rently the U.S. representative and tour manager
of the film, an assignment well suited to meet
the goal of Disability/Arts: to work with artists
and cultural institutions to shape the presenta-
tion of disability in the arts and to increase the
representation of works by disabled artists.

Linton is also the author of numerous books
on disability studies and disability and the arts,
including “Claiming Disability: Knowledge
and Identity.” She recently founded, and now
co-directs, the Disability Studies Project at
Hunter College, a curriculum development
project which offers consulting to arts organi-
zations, museums, theater companies, and film
and television producers.

Certainly, disabilities studies are not con-
fined to the lives of those who are disabled.
Rather, projects, like those Linton is working
on, are for others to begin thinking about what
defines “normal” and how “normalcy” plays

into our daily judgments and values. Fellow

member of the board of the Society for Disabil-

ity Studies with Linton and associate professor
of English at Davidson, Dr. Ann Fox shares a
passion for bringing ‘disabilities studies to all
aspects of education.

“Dr. Linton is a particularly important
speaker to have present on this issue, as she is
one of the foremost scholars in disability stud-
ies, an academic specialty which addresses
disability identity not only as medical condi-
tion, but also as a subject for study in the
humanities, including fields such as film stud-
ies, history, philosophy, religion, and literary
studies,” says Fox.

Fox also emphasizes the importance of
Linton’s, presentation to Davidson’s continual
growth as a community of not only academics,
but also fellow people sharing a civilization.
“Ultimately,” she says, “the field [Linton] rep-
resents sparks the kinds of discussions that we
thrive on at Davidson, and invites cross-cur-
ricular dialogue.”

Linton’s visit is sponsored by Public Lec-
tures, and the departments of Education, Ger-
man, History and Gender Studies. The free
public presentation of Liebe Perla will begin at
7 p.m. on Wednesday, Oct. 16, inthe Smith 900
Room in the Alvarez College Union. Immedi-
ately following, Linton will give a short lecture.
A panel of Rabbi Jeremy Barras, Dr. Neil
Lerner, and Dr. Karl Plank will then join Linton
for a discussion on the issues that the movie and
lecture raise.

Celebrat
Music!!

Davidson students, faculty and staff
are invited to attend

The dedication of the
Perry A. and Lillie Duke Clements
Sloan Music Center.

The festivities will take place on
Thursday, October 10 at5:00 pm
on the lawn between

Sloan and Martin.

The voices of the Delilahs and the Generals
will welcome you (starting at 4:45 pm)
with a ribbon-cutting ceremony
to follow at 5:00 pm.

Self-guided tours of the building
will round out the afternoon.

Take a study break and
join the celebration!

Future goals and financial alloca-
tions featured at recent meeting

By AMANDA PENNOCK
Senior Staff Writer

SGA’s Oct. 3 meeting focused on two issues:
ATC allocations and SGA’s goals for the com-
ing year.

Activities Tax Council (ATC) representa-
tives at the meeting distributed handouts to
each of the senators. These handouts listed the
amounts of money the ATC would like to
allocate to various student groups on campus.
The ATC distributes funds to groups that re-
quest money for the purchase of specific and
necessary equipment.

The ATC tentatively allocated monies to

‘ Davidson Outdoors for new tents, to Libertas

for a new computer, to crew for equipment, to
rugby for new uniforms, and to Students for
New Learning for twice-monthly dinners. Sev-
eral senators voiced concerns about the cost of
the new computer for Libertas, and asked why
the hardware cost so much. The ATC represen-
tatives said that Libertas has been asking for a
new computer for several years, and that it is the
school’s policy that all student organizations
must purchase computers through ITS.

The senators were skeptical about this policy,
and asked that the ATC investigate the possible
purchase of a computer through other, less-
costly means. Because a line-item veto is not
possible in the approval of the allocations, SGA
decided to wait another week before allocating
the monies to the various organizations in order
to check on better prices for a computer for
‘Libertas.

The other main issue addressed at the SGA

Pills, from page 1

set up.

“My understanding is, in most scenarios, we
would have some time to pack and get up the
road before the radiation would reach us,” said
McKelvey.

Anyone can buy potassium iodide at drug
stores for about $1 atablet oroverthe Internet-—
including at a locally owned site,
NukePills.com. No prescription is needed.

The following information is courtesy of the
N.C. Division of Public Health.

How will I know if and when I should take
potassium iodide?

If there is risk of exposure to radioactive
iodine from inhalation of contaminated air or
ingestion of contaminated food, then public
health officials will issue an advisory to take the
pills.

If there is a serious emergency at one of the
nuclear power plants, officials will notify the
public through sirens near the plants and the
Emergency Alert System (EAS). After receiv-
ing the notification, you should stay tuned to
the Emergency Alert System and local broad-
casting stations for information on what actions

meeting was the goals formulated during the
SGA retreat. The retreat took place at Irwin
Lodge on Sept. 29. The goals fell into five main
categories:

1.Review the major policies of the Honor
Code and the Code of Responsibility; re-evalu-
ate how these polices affect students’ activities
on campus.

2. Increase communication with the student
body about what goes on in SGA; to be accom-
plished mainly through the Davidsonian and an
SGA website that is in the works.

3. Increase school spirit—for the school in
general, not just athletic teams.

4. Develop a policy for dealing with external
affairs/issues. This tentatively will call for a
petition signed by at least 10 percent of Davidson
students in order to form a committee within
SGA to deal with any particular student concern
about an external or political issue.

5. Evaluate the ATC and its function; better
the process through a more in-depth look at the
processes it uses to allocate funds.

SGA president Gray Patterson ’03 said, “All
of these goals are attainable and will have a very
visible and beneficial effect for the student
body.”

He continued, “They are not the only things
that we are working on, and we are going to
continue to address student needs whenever
they arise and in whatever form they take. Iam
very excited about the upcoming year, and look
forward to seeing these changes being produced
for the student body.”

you should take, including instructions related
to evacuation and whether you and your family
should take potassium iodide.

YOU SHOULD NOT TAKE POTASSIUM
IODIDE UNLESS NORTH CAROLINA PUB-
LIC HEALTH OFFICIALS ISSUE AN ADVI-
SORY TO DO SO.

How does potassium iodide prevent thyroid
cancer?

The thyroid gland is a butterfly-shaped gland
located in the neck. Thyroid hormones regulate
the body’s metabolism, facilitate normal growth
and development, and control the functioning of
many organs. The thyroid absorbs and stores
iodine because it is essential for the production
of thyroid hormones. Taking KI literally “fills
up” the thyroid gland with stable iodine, pre-
venting it from absorbing radioactive iodine,
which could cause thyroid cancer.

When does potassium iodide have to be taken
in order to prevent uptake of radioactive iodine
and reduce the risk of thyroid cancer?

For best results, potassium iodide should be
taken prior to or at the time of exposure to
radioactive iodine. However, taking potassium
iodide within three or four hours after exposure
could still block the uptake of some radioactive
iodine and lower one’s risk of thyroid cancer.
