Staff Editorial

Self-selection is supposed to take the place of rush. Both
systems are designed to introduce current members of a social
house to potential members so
that a mutually-satisfactory
match can be made. Clearly, our
system eliminates the eating
houses’ opportunity to decide
on new members. But in it its
current state, it also makes it hard for freshmen to decide
which house they want to be a part of.

In an effort to prevent the houses from cultivating a specific
image, and to prevent anyone from taking it personally when
they don’t get the house they want, Davidson relies on a
random lottery system to match new members and eating
houses. No problem. While much can be said — and has been
said - for houses choosing their members, we know that part
of the policy isn’t going anywhere.

But as part of the effort to equalize the houses, eating house
members are barely allowed to interact with the freshmen:
Houses are limited to sponsoring four events each fall — hall
dinners, a semi-formal, a party and another, non-alcoholic
event. So assuming each freshman woman (and man, for
CoHo) attends every single event, each house only has four
tries to meet and interact with her. Is it really possible to
cultivate a meaningful opinion of the house over the course of
a few hours?

The self-selection system came up for review at PCC last
week. A proposal is on the table to add one more freshman
event for each house. That’s a step in the right direction. Also,
over the course of the next ten years, the houses will become
more evenly-sized. Now, the proposal goes into the many-
leveled system necessary to turn it into a policy.

We’re all for changing the self-selection system. While
avoiding rush makes the eating house system unique, it also
forces potential new members to make an uneducated choice.
We’ re not suggesting a switch to traditional rush — our eating
houses don’t have the money or the inclination to engage in
such a system. But what would it hurt for an upperclassman
to tell an underclassman what it is she likes about her house?
Like it or not, it’s impossible to deny that each house has its
own unique qualities. One isn’t better or worse than another,
just different. The differences will remain whether or not
we’ re allowed to discuss them with freshmen.

Now that self-selection is being re-evaluated, let’s redefine
the idea of dirty rushing. Discussion between potential and

current members of houses should be allowed, as long as -

upperclassmen don’t promote their house at the expense of
another.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

‘Editor in Chief
“Tessica Mering.
: Managiig Editors
Pimathy Cook ~~. . Matt Garfield
News Editors
Lindy Baldwin Colin Eagan
Emily Drew (Assistant)

Arts & Living Editors
Derek‘Loh_ . Gavin Weber
Sports Editor
Caroline Hauser

~ ‘Photography Editors
Erin Berry, ~Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
“Maggie Kozicharow

w.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR

by WILEY

HOLD? {T, EP... 1 SMELL A TRAP /
TWKTS A CABERNET ONUVIGNON
NNO ENERYONE KNOWS TRAT

DOEDN'T GO WITH DUCK

WNILEN@pOpSEQUITUR. CORN One. BY UbWePEM. pro aypoicMe

Response to Catholic Church

Editors’ Note: In David Crow’s column, the last sentence .

in the fourth paragraph should have read, “However, the

Church must realize that a person who molests children has

psychological problems that simply praying cannot cure.”
We regret the error.

In response to “Catholic Church must face realities of the
21st century” (Perspectives, April 17).

Every now and then, we read something so ignorant, so
arrogant, that we thank God for bless-
ing us with a life in a community that
stands for cultural, religious and eth-
nic understanding. Then we read the
The Davidsonian, and found out how
naive we were.

David Crow’ s column on the Catho-
lic Church offends us as Catholics, not
because he expressed an anti-Catholic opinion, but because of
the manner in which he did so.

First, he includes inaccurate information, claiming that the
Church treats molestation cases “by simply praying for [their]
accused priests to get better and then putting them right back
in the position to do the same thing again.” This is an
egregious exaggeration.

When ill priests are institutionalized, they undergo treat-

‘ment that includes more than “simple praying”. The effec-

tiveness of these programs is debatable, but the fact remains
that the claim is false.

He also speculates that the Church ignores the issue of “the
archaic practice of celibacy”, which “could contribute to
pedophilia”, when according to widely accepted opinion by
sociologists such as David Finkelhor (U. of New Hampshire),
this is untrue. The reason why the priesthood (and occupa-
tions in other religious denominations too) is attractive to
pedophiles is because of the position of authority over youth
that it offers.

Additionally, pedophilia is an attraction to youths, not
sexually mature adults. So while, as Crow claims, allowing
priests to have relations with mature females could let them
“deal with their sexual desires”, it will still have no effect on
a deviant’s attraction to youths. In fact, married men are just
as likely to abuse children as celibate priests. (Phillip Jenkins.
Pedophiles and Priests. New Y ork: Oxford University Press,
2001.)

Crow also uses derogatory language towards Catholics.
Phrases describing church behavior such as, “ignorance and
arrogance’, and “unwilling to face reality”, attack not just
decisions the Church has made, but beliefs of Catholics. His

' depiction of prayer as “simple”, and labeling of celibacy as

“archaic” stand out as intolerable examples of neglect to
understand Catholicism and Christianity as a whole.

The timing of the article is also poor. When news of the
scandal surfaced, there was a legitimate call for the Church to
be more open. But now the Church has come forward to
authorities with names of suspected pedophiles, and Pope

John Paul II has called the American Cardinals to Rome. -

Clearly the church is making an effort to learn from its

mistakes and rectify whit is sell poe a 3
We do not miean to posh aside wilt aver satan: see
disturbing issue. Steps must be taken to fix the problems of
child molestation in the church and the subsequent cover-up.
However, right now, praise of the Church is in order for its
new efforts, while still acknowledging that some individual
members of the clergy are a es for terrible circum-

stances.
We sincerely hope that Crow’s comments were more
misinformed than malicious.
John Marshall ‘04 et. al.

Censoring Ludacris

In recent. days it has come to my attention by way of
discussion with other students that the Union Board has asked
Mr. Ludacris to censor out some of his most explicit material
or at least to “tone it down”. Personally, I hope he drops the
“f-bomb” so many times that he sets a new world record for
the amount of expletives in a two hour show’ . Either that or
I hope he.comes out does one song and says, “ Hey, your
students only wanted the G-rated songs and now that I am
done. with that I’m out of here.”

I think we paid for the real thing and we should get it. Under
the First Amendment, he should have the choice on whether _
or not he wants to “keep it real” and so forth.

Why aren’t the students mad about this? Don’t you want to
hear the real songs instead of the bleeped out versions?
Probably just too worried about your GPA to stand up and say
anything. Why aren’t the college professors upset about this
censorship? Probably because they aren’t the biggest Ludacris
fans and don’t want their kids to go to the concert. So far I
don’t know of any that are planning to attend and yes I have
asked several. Heck, I cannot even imagine one of them
having enough interest to go out and buy a Ludacris album or
even borrow one from a student much less stick up for his
freedom of speech. (For those willing to take me up on this,
the album is called Word of Mouf.)

But, hey, I’m not the biggest Ludacris fan anyway. Iam not
necessarily down with the “blang-bling” or the “foshizzy” or
whatever people are talking about these days. My love for rap
unfortunately died with Tupac. But I care about his right to
say what he wants when he wants, I don’t think that anyone
has the right to tell him what he can or can’t do onstage.
Maybe you will only start caring when they try to censor you.

Mathew Arbuckle ‘02

Lux orta

After the temptation in the wilderness and the banishment
of Satan, Jesus left Nazareth and dwelt in Capernaum “by the
sea.” Matthew quotes Isaiah to show thatthe prophecy has
been fulfilled: “The land of Zabulon, and the land of
Naphthalim, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of
the Gentiles; The people which sat in darkness saw great light;
and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light
is sprung up” (Isaiah 9:1-2; KJB). The Latin New Testament
that Peter Stuart Ney would have known reads thus for the
second verse: “[P]opulus, qui sedebat in tenebris, vidit lucem
magnam: et sedentibus in regione umbrae mortis, lux orta est
eis” (Mat. 4: 16; Novum Testamentum [1592]).

In the 1830s the vast continent of North American must
have appeared a shadowy region indeed. With the founding
of Davidson as a Presbyterian college the holy light comes to
the New World, a Promised Land. When we read the motto
of Davidson we should recall the holy source of the words
“Jux orta,” now rounded out for a new institution of higher
learning founded by Presbyterians with a vision of educating
leaders who would bear the light out into the darkness of the
New World: “Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas” (“Let Learning
Be Cherished Where Liberty Has Arisen’’).

In the next verses Jesus, the Light of the World, begins to
preach and calls Peter and Andrew, then James and John, the
first disciples, to follow Him. Ney must have had all of this
in his head when he crafted the motto for the college. The
connection enriches the motto and its hope marvelously.

J. Gill Holland
Department of English

