LBB ALLELE ELE LIE Bee

Big game atmosphere makes
wins even more special

Kings of the Carolinas.

Sure, the men’s soccer team has lost to High
Pointand UNC Wilmington, but with Sunday’s
1-0 triumph, Matt Spear’s squad has now
knocked off North Carolina and South Caro-
lina, two teams that were both ranked #2 in the
nation entering their Davidson contest.

There is something to be said about a team
that beats two top-five schools in one season.

The men’s soccer team has done just that in
the same month, and has four more matches
against current top 25 opponents left on the
schedule.

Surprisingly, however, the team stands at 5-
2-1 orf the year and is ranked in just.one poll
(24th by socceramerica.com).

“This season’s run continues to underline
the parity of college soccer on the men’s side,”
commented Spear. “Every game is unpredict-
able and up for grabs. I don’t think we have
played tremendously worse or better from
game to game. Obviously, we have made a
few grave errors in the losses and a few spec-
tacular plays in wins, but soccer lends itself to
ups and downs, creativity, and upsets. The
size of the player means little, and even
athleticism is only so important. It’s a game
that is won with teamwork and brains, as
much as talent and brawn.”

Never was this more evident than on Sun-
day, when the Wildcats, a team small by most
standards with five starters under 6’0, out-
hustled and out-smarted a USC side that most
closely resembled the New Zealand All-
Blacks, in both size and uniform.

Attendance for the game was up around
1,500, and the recently established Davidson

soccer fan club (a.k.a. FC Wildcat) formed an |

intimidating sea of red in the bleachers.

One of Spear’s recruits, who was at the
game, commented, “The atmosphere was much
better than the other schools I have visited.”

Of course it was.

This is Davidson. We’re wicked smart.

Where else would you hear-fans tastefully
trash talking the opponent in two languages
(English and French)?

And you know this is a great place when

President Vagt, clad in his very own XL FC
Wildcat shirt, can be heard giving the other
team a piece of his mind: “Number 7, it takes
more than thuggery to beat us!”

Following the win, Vagt added, “Late Sun-
day afternoon in Richardson Stadium was one
of those rare magic moments - a crowd that
was vocally invested in the outcome, a
Davidson team that was weary of the David
and Goliath analogies, and two periods of
incredible soccer. What an extraordinary vic-
tory, despite the fact that it took five years off
my life éxpectancy!” ”

With such an impressive showing by the
fans on Sunday, Davidson should expect to see
the same kind of support for the football team
this Saturday (and for all other home games
this year).

Homecoming is supposed to the Christmas
of our academic year.

So, let’s bring some noise this weekend, and
hopefully football will win convincingly

enough to preserve President Vagt’s life ex- °

pectancy.
The crowd, however, should at least get his
blood pumping. .

The Queen City wager:
SGA Presidents raise
soccer stakes with UNCC

By ErskINE WELLS
Special Contributor

For the upcoming men’s soccer match
against Charlotte next Wednesday, the SGA
has organized buses to take students into Char-
lotte for the 7 p.m. game.

The price will be $5 for those that sign up
before the weekend. Sign-up tables will be
located near the flagpole outside of Chambers
and on the third floor of the Union all day
Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of this week.

The charge will cover your ticket, a seat on
the Raging Uptown Bus to and from UNCC,
and the opportunity to cheer on the men’s
soccer team.

And then there’s the.bet.

Grady Patterson, our SGA President, and
UNCC student body President Brian Bradley,
have agreed to a friendly wager over this
Queen City rivalry.

If the 49ers win, Grady has to dress up in
UNCC green and kiss the rear end of the
UNCC mascot at halftime of the UNCC/

Davidson men’s basketball game on Dec. 7 in |

Belk Arena.

If the ‘Cats pull off the win, however, Mr.
Bradley has to get on his knees, sporting the
Davidson red and black, and pucker up to our

‘Wildcat.

Let’s do our part and preserve Grady’s dig-
nity.

The buses for the game will pull out from the
Baker parking lot next Wednesday at 6:15
p.m.

Team falls to Duke, beats

Southwest Missouri

By Becca McDevitt
Staff Writer

With one match against #13 Duke and two

_ against talented NorPac opponent Southwest

Missouri State, the Davidson field hockey
team concluded its week with a 2-1 record in
conference play and 5-5 record overall.

On Tuesday, Duke defeated the Wildcats
12-0. The ‘Cats were unable to keep up with
the No. 13 ranked team in the nation, with the
Blue Devils out shooting them 34-0.

Davidson was given few offensive opportu-
nities, as Duke dominated most of the game.
Besides out shooting the Wildcats, the Blue
Devils also had 17 penalty corners, while
Davidson had none

Duke’s Kim Van Kirk and:Chrissy Ashley
led their team, as they each recorded a hat
trick. Duke entered the second half with a 6-
0 lead and the confidence and ability to double
that score by the end of the game.

Sarah Nolan made 13 saves for Davidson,
while three Duke goalies combined for the
team’s third shutout of the season.

The Cats continued play at home on Satur-

day against Southwest Missouri State. The -

game was the first time a Davidson athletics
event has been held on the brand new artificial
turf field.

The Bears handed Davidson its first NorPac
loss by defeatirrg the Cats 3-0.

Just 19 minutes into the game, the Bears’
Bryndis Hendrickson maneuvered past the
Davidson defense to score the first goal of the
game, giving Southwest Missouri State a lead
it would not relinquish.

Davidson had many close calls during the
game, with 7 penalty corners and 10 solid
shots. Unfortunately, the “Cats were unable to
put the ball in the cage.

Nolan made five saves in the game, while
Southwest Missouri State’s Jessie —
finished with three.

Fortunately, as the old saying goes, the
‘Cats chose to save the best for last. The “Cats
returned to the new artificial turf to obtain a
much needed victory, obtaining revenge over
Southwest Missouri with a 1-0 win.

One of the most important events.of the day
took place before the contest had even started.
While taking the field the Bears made a few
un-sportsmanlike comments, which gave the
Cats the inspiration they needed to leave the
Bears speechless at the end of the game.

Senior captain Alex Rogers scored her first
goal of the season 9 minutes into the game,
providing all the offense the ‘Cats would need.

Davidson put up an amazing fight through-
out the game, exemplifying true heart and
hustle on the field. Players at all positions
worked hard to completely deny Southwest
Missouri State the opportunity to score.

Defensively, it was obvious that the Cats
sought true revenge. “The Demolisher,” oth-
erwise known as Courtney Hughes, led the
unit, which played unbelievably, denying all
of the Bears’ 13 shots ‘and 7 penalty corners.

On each Bear’s corner, Nolan yelled out,
“Ready...GO!” to the defense. Upon hearing
her cry, Jess Barton, Kathleen Fenn, Molly
Blackman, Christina Auer and Hughes knew
just what to do; they crushed the attacking
Bears and cleared the ball out.

On the attacking end of the field, Rogers,
Allison Matlack, Agnes Bateman and Tiffany
Homan controlled the ball magnificently. The
transition and passing for the ‘Cats was pre-
cise and fluid, allowing Davidson to control
possession for a large portion of the game.

In goal, Nolan made 5 saves in the game,
while the Bears’ Tiffany Sands recorded two.

Davidson field hockey returns home on
Saturday, October 5 to face the Owls of Temple
University. Come out to the field at 12 p.m. to
cheer the ‘Cats on to victory.

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

The field hockey team won its first game on new turf last week.

Wis Shy

Be §

44 ohve

Traditional Martial Arts re Ms eecters ele

° Kung Fu « Karate

Judo - Swordsmanship

Soke Dai Bill Seibert has 30 years
of martial arts experience

