Davidson’s senior funny man is Fully Committed

By KaTE FIEDLER
Staff Writer

Creating distinctive voices for forty char-
acters: impressive. Keeping forty characters
straight in quick succession: very impres-
sive. Watching Marty Benson work the crowd
and a witty script: priceless.

Anyone who missed Marty Benson’s one
man show, Fully Committed by Becky Mode,
last week lost the opportunity to see one of
Davidson’s funniest in his element. The
senior theater major brought the house down
with a stellar performance in all three shows.
Looking down from the tech box, Kristin
Nickel was impressed by the crowds that the
show drew. “Probably 300 or so people came
out, and I think that’s a tribute to Marty. If he
hadn’t been the one performing, I don’t think
as many would have supported the show,”
said the show’s light board operator. Ryan
Hastings enjoyed the performance so much,
he saw the production twice. “I went back for
Bryce, my favorite character. I loved the
show and the freedom Marty took with it.”

Benson catered each performance to the
specific audience before him, adding in lines
to include professors in attendance or imme-
diately responding to someone’s peculiar re-
action to a line. He addressed the audience
directly and broke the fourth wall in several

Erin Raffety

By ERIN RAFFETY
Staff Writer

You might think it a bit unfortunate that I
never saw the whole show from the audience’s
perspective Friday and Saturday night, that I
was only vaguely aware of the packed house
in Duke Family Performance Hall for the
Dance Ensemble spring concert this week-
end. However, I can tell you that the view
from backstage was just as spectacular.

Out in the auditorium, the audience heard
from Red Water Parting, the Generals, Britney
Spears, and Shades of Brown, Davidson’s
new step team. The performance also in-
cluded an appearance by belly dancers, a
creepy rendition of Michael Jackson’s
“Thriller,” plus ballet, tap, jazz, and modern
dancing. The two-hour show featured nine-
teen different pieces, almost all student-cho-
" reographed, and the effect of dance on sucha
large stage in such a beautiful venue for the

Nice day fora Monsoon Wedding

By Derek LOH
Arts and Living Editor

Monsoon Wedding is about a lot of things.
It’s about a lot of people, a wedding, various
subplots, upper and lower classes, and Delhi.
But above all things, it’s a film about family.
The Village Voice, that free and wonderfully
hip little paper, said that director Mira Nair’s
“narrative clichés and telegraphed episodes
smell of old soap opera.” Well, it reeks of old
soap opera. If we keep that in mind, the fact
that Monsoon Wedding manages to be the
most enjoyable and heart-warming piece of
cinema this side of Babe is nothing short of a
miracle. The film transcends its clichés and
familiar melodrama, embracing itsseemingly
silly relationships until we can sense and
share Nair’s love and sympathy for her char-
acters.

We meet the characters while preparations
for an arranged marriage take place. As the
two families come together, we slowly but
surely understand whom everyone is. We

www.deavidson.eds
Benson ‘04: “one of Davidson’s
funniest”

instances. Although his added commentary

was not professional, it was classic Benson’

behavior, capitalizing on an opportunity to
draw people in and make them laugh. Even
when he confused his voices, Benson was

able to save himself through laughs by blam-
ing his slip up on the sudden. development of
dyslexia or a bad connection. At one point

_ during Friday evening’s performance, it was

difficult for Benson to regain his character,
but the audience forgave his brief lapse and
just laughed it off. He was able to recover his
mistakes with humor and wit on the spot as if
it were a part of the performance. I found this
most impressive while he faced an expectant
audience.

Benson began and ended the play as Sam
Peliczowski, an aspiring actor working the
reservation phones for an upscale restaurant.
Mode’s script provided over forty funny char-
acters who called in for Sam throughout the
show, and Benson crafted a voice and per-
sona for each one. He carried on the constant
phone conversations as if it was natural for
him to create different personalities and con-
verse with himself. His mannerisms, pos-
ture, and speech changed vividly with each
new caller, yet Benson was able to keep Sam
consistent and believable.

Sean Gantt was impressed by Benson’s
sharp character changes. “It was the most
complicated one-man show I’ve ever seen.
For the amount of characters he was playing;
it was amazing,” he commented later. After
hours of rehearsals and working all three
performances, Nickel was also amazed by

Benson’s abilities. She said, “Marty has an
incredible ability to characterize. If you just
heard the show, you’d think'ten people were
in.the production. The show had so much
energy.”

The production aspects of the show were
overshadowed by Benson’s hilarious perfor-
mance, but they served their purpose. The set
was a basic bar with only the props necessary
to realistically complete the conversations.
There were few light cues, but the sound
effects of a phone ringing or the line hanging
up were numerous and well executed. Benson
tried to play with the tech crew during his
Friday evening performance, but they re-
sponded by multiple phone rings and inter-
com buzzes. He quickly backed off, explain-
ing to the audience that the techies were the
wrong people to mess with since they held the
power.to make him look silly. These sponta-
neous comments illustrated the fun interac-
tion Benson had with his audience and the
crew.

The directing job was effective; Benson
stuck with the clever script before him but
also added in some of his own humor to make
the show his. After almost four years of
making us laugh and shake our heads, Benson
completed his official Davidson theatrics with
a comic success.

reflects on this weekend’s dance concert

first time will be a lasting memory.

Downstairs, I saw the excitement and the
nerves in the new dressing rooms firsthand as
we donned our costumes and sprayed our hair
into place. Dancers graced the new below-
stage space, stretching on the stairs and against
the railings, and soon, the pitter-patter of feet
and the hum of music echoed from our haven
below the grand auditorium.

You see, what you miss from out in the
audience is the giggling downstairs, the
months of hard preparation, the last: minute
rehearsals, the bruised toes and sprained
ankles, and even the tears. Without these
images, the show is still complete, trium-
phant— a culmination of clear hard work and
dedication by a growing group of students
committed to the art of dance at Davidson.
But, as I stood watching Julia Philpott’s mod-
ern dance from the wings, I also witnessed a
senior girl wiping her eyes, brimming with
tears, as she moved onto the stage, and I

have our heroes, the villains, the jokester, and
that one character with which we can iden-
tify. Aditi (Vasundhara Das) is the bride to
be. She is a “modern” woman.
words, she has had relationships with men,
and as far as we can tell, she chooses to have
an arranged marriage. Her best friend is her
cousin Ria (Shefali Shetty). While the focus
of the movie is the wedding, it is the relation-
ship between Shetty’s character and Aditi’s
father (Naseeruddin Shah) that anchor the
movie. Shah is wonderful as the father of the
bride: with just his eyes he is able to express
pain and pure joy.

I have not even mentioned the style of the
film. Nair saturates the screen with bright

oranges and blues, lively music, and chatter- .

ing characters that, by the end of the film,
develop into real people. When so many
films sleepwalk through formulas, Monsoon
Wedding runs through tired plots with so
much color and heart that the familiar be-
comes fresh. Monsoon Wedding is now play-
ing at the Manor in Charlotte.

In other.

realized the quiet joy in Friday and Saturday
night. We may not think of joy in tears, but
for seniors, for those who have seen the dance
ensemble grow from ten members to ninety-
five members, for those who first danced in
the old 900 room, then in Hodson Hall, and
finally in the new Duke Hall, tears just seemed
appropriate. And intermingled with the tears
offstage, I heard laughter, I saw smiles, and I
was convinced that our performances Friday
and Saturday night were not about getting
every step right or about hitting every posi-
tion, but simply about loving what were do-
ing, about sharing a gift that we have, dancing
for an audience, but also for ourselves.

It may sound cheesy, but we’ re all so busy

here, I believe we rarely stop to find the
beauty in everyday life, in the ability to move,
the ability to dance, to be free. More than
anything, I think Friday and Saturday night,
the actual performances and the attendance at
the shows, confirmed for me that the David-
son community is interested in something
greater than perfection and poise. The suc-
cess of the Davidson Dance Ensemble is a
success of the entire community, a dream that
started small and has grown into beauty it-
self. We couldn’t have done our perfor-
mances this weekend without an audience, so
to all those who attended, thank you. Also,
thank you to our crew, cast, and advisors, and
most of all, seniors, you will be missed.

PENINSULA, EXIT 28, W. CATAWBA AVE

AUTHORIZED ZEISS - ¥ARILUX

THE

OPTICAL SHO

OF LAKE NORMAN

ALL DOCTORS’ PRESCRIPTIONS ACCEPTED
LICENSED OPTICIANS
ED STUKBAUER, F.N.A.O. - JACK ARMSTRONG, E.N.A.0. -
EYE EXAMINATIONS BY OR. KENNETH TURN

987-2288

103 PENINSULA VILLAGE * 19420 JETTON RD. AT THE ENTRANCE OF THE 4

SEIKO PRESCRIPTION LABO

Continuing our policy of offering Davidson students,
faculty and employees a 20% discount on eyewear
and special prices on eye exams.

CORNELIUS NEAR

