Spooky Frailty has good intentions, poor execution

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

We all know Bill Paxton’s name. We all
know his face. Most of us, though, have
trouble putting both together. Paxton has
starred in a variety of films, from commercial
favorites such as Twister, Aliens, and True
Lies to critically championed films. Looking
at his filmography is somewhat shocking:
was he really in Titanic, One False Movie,
Apollo 13,and A Simple Plan? Paxton is one
of Hollywood’s great unsung heroes.

Now comes Frailty, a supernatural thriller
that Paxton wrote and directed. Is now his
time to sing? Most critics seem to think so.
Check out. Frailty’s statistics at
RottenTomatoes.com. Three out of every
four reviews for the film are favorable. And
considering that last year’s critical darling, A
Beautiful Mind, is just above that mark, three-
for-four isn’t that bad at all. Actually reading
the reviews is even more surprising. Ebert
and Roeper are hailing it as one of the best
movies of the year. And The New York Times
says, “[Frailty] forcefully reminds us of the
degree to which all of us are our parents’
ideological captives when we’ re children.”

The film is told ina flashback, Verbal Kint-
style. Fenton Meiks (played effectively by
Matthew McConaughey) drives himself to
an FBI office an seeks out agent Wesley
Doyle (Powers Boothe). Doyle has been
looking for God’s Hand, a serial killer that
claims his victims in the name of God. The
McConaughey character tells the officer that
his brother is the God’s Hand Killer, and with

www.movies. ya .com

Bill Paxton and Otis are bathed in God’s light in Frailty

his family history, Fenton explains how and
why he knows this information.

Their father (Bill Paxton) raised Fenton
and his brother Adam alone after his wife
died giving birth. Heis aloving, hardworking
man that would do nothing to harm his chil-
dren. One night an angel visits Paxton’s
character. (In case you’re wondering, we do
get to see the angel. He’s not one of those
Hollywood being of light. Nope, he has
wings, a shield, and Santa Clause beard to

. match.) Apparently, God wants to send Paxton

and company some magic weapons and a list

pocorn aac for sis A 1

Ludacris, from page 1

researched several recent Ludacris con-
certs, and found that Radford and James
Madison universities were pleased with the
performances they hosted.

The Union Board also contacted represen-
tatives of the rap group Outkast and folk
singer Paul Simon, but negotiations broke off
before a contract could be reached, said
Brown.

College President Bobby Vagt, who-en-
courages the Union Board to schedule two
big-name acts every year, said he supported
the effort to bring Ludacris, but acknowl-
edged that others might not approve.

“T understand that some might find the
lyrics offensive, in which case I assume those
students won’t attend,” he said. “With each
act, you need to make a judgment about
whether we will subject students to some-
thing they shouldn’t be subjected to. Since
attendance at this concert is voluntary, we
passed that one alright.”

Vagt said he has received only positive
feedback from students.

“I’ve only heard from students who are
excited about the concert,” he said. “I think
(Ludacris) is a group that is widely appreci-
ated and very popular, and the Union Board
said this was something they wanted to do.

He added, “At other colleges and universi-
ties, they have been well-received and re-
spectful.”

Asked if a similar type of music has ever
been brought to Davidson, Vagt said only
George Clinton, who performed at Belk Arena
several years ago, comes to mind. Counting
Crows performed for a neat apy crowd
in October.

Njie said the school’s top administrators
got behind the idea after seeing the results of
the survey.

“They might not have heard of him, but

Ludacris is touring to promote
Word of Mouf, his third album.

they have been extremely supportive,” said
Niie. “All they wanted to know is what the
students wanted. When they found out the
students did want Ludacris to come, they said
‘Let’s do it.””

One of hip-hop’s rising stars ©

Ludacris, whose real name is Chris Bridges,
24, is on tour to promote his third album,
Word of Mouf, which has spent 19 weeks on
the Billboard Top 200 List, and is currently at
No. 9. :

His most popular hits also include “Roll

Out (My Business), “Ho” and current singles ©

“Area Codes” and “Saturday (Ohh Ohh).”
Ludacris often performs with a crew called

Disturbing the Peace, which includes Shawna,

Little Fate, Infamous 2-0, 4-IZE and Shondrae,

according to his Web site, Ludacris-

Online.com.

“We make such a good team, because each
person brings something different to the
table,” he told the site.

“But, we all wild out and live everyday as
though it were our last. Believe me, if you
lived next door to D.T.P., you would be
knocking on the door demanding we turn
down the noise.”

of demons to kill.

Brent Hanley’s script drives right in. Are
there magic weapons? Well, there’s an axe
named Otis that’s bathed in light. Are there
demons? Well, that’s for you to decide, but
the filmmakers would have you believe that
yes, demons do exist, at least in Frailty.

The tension in the film revolves around
young Fenton and his father. He believes his
dad is insane. After a few divinely-ordered
murders, young Fenton finally goes to the
police and forever changes the dynamic of his
family.

What happens after this point would be
unfair to reveal. I will say that the conclusion
is handled well: all the characters stay true to
themselves, and the story never cheats. The
end might seem to pull a Fight Club/Usual
Suspects cheap ending, but think it through
before dismissing it.

As for Frailty as a whole...My initial reac-
tion was bad, something along the lines of,
“That was absolutely horrible.” Then I began
to think it through more. The story, even if
over the top, stays true to its characters and
ideas. However, there are times
when“cheesy” is the only appropriate word
with which to describe the movie. For ex-
ample, Paxton’s Dad calls: him and his sons
“A family of superheroes.” There’s also the
aforementioned visualization of the angel.
And the sets, namely the rose garden, are
obviously creations on a soundstage. Frailty
also fails as horror. Was I scared? Notreally.
The movie has its moments, but it never gets
under our skin to become truly terrifying. If
only the filmmakers found a more visually
and emotionally stimulating style and tone...

To be fair, I don’t think Paxton and his
collaborators wanted Frailty to be a horror
film. The heart of Frailty is in its ideas about
religion and the trust between parent and
child. Paxton’s character — and the film —
truly believes that he is carrying out the word
of god. He is not a horrible man, just one
afflicted by god’s will. Is it Paxton’s time to
sing? I'd like to think so, but Frailty fails on
too many levels, poorly executing its interest-
ing ideas of devotion — to God and parent —
despite the sound structure of its screenplay.

-Davidsonian Arts & LIVING

Like art?. Like living? Come on, don’t weall? — :
Join the Davidsonian staff and [put some life in the Living section.
_ For more information, ora ses time, email deloh or ace

Disturbing the Peace, which includes
Shawna, Little Fate, Infamous 2-0, 4-IZE and
Shondrae, according to his Web site, Ludacris-
Online.com.

“We make such a good team, because each
person brings something different to the

table,” he told the site. “But, we all wild out
and live everyday as though it were our last.
Believe me, if you lived next door to D.T.P.,
you would be knocking on the door demand-
ing we turn down the noise.”

Wit, from Shakespeare Special, page 6

you’ve sworn off women for Lent only to
have Anna Kournikova move in next door.
Love’s Labour’s is a triumph of dirty jokes.

It’s a play where you can add “in bed’’ to the.

end of any given line and chances are it will
help divulge Shakespeare’s intended mean-
ing. No, seriously.

Consider the following exchange:

Maria: A mark marvelous well shot, for
they both did hit it.

Boyet: A mark says my lady! / Let the mark
have aprickin’t... Anif my hand be out, then
belike your hand is in.

Costard: Then will she get the upshoot by
cleaving the pin... She’s too hard for you at
pricks, sir. Challenge her to bowl.

Boyet: I fear too much rubbing. Good
night, my good owl.

Don’t be fooled, they’re talking about ar-
chery. At least, they’re supposed to be. But
again, sexual repression will do wonders for
the mind. i

A key result of all of this is that Love’s
Labour’s is incredibly entertaining. It’s
Shakespeare’s mostrhyming play, and one of
hismost lyrical. Fast paced wits translate into
fast paced letters to forbidden lovers—which,
when wrongly distributed, yield a fast paced

mess. The play captivates with playful hu-
mor, layered dramatic irony, and an ending
famous for its:unprecedented nature.

And we are reminded through it all of the
folly of our own bloated self-images. Honing
the intellect is fine, until it ceases to be a
means to an end and becomes a means to
itself. Book smarts hold up just fine till beset
with challenges beyond their realm—not the
least of which, Shakespeare’s old favorite,
love. An artifice of words and wit may prove
temporary salve, but in reality it breeds com-
pounded desire, as the characters learn “ab-
stinence engenders maladies.” Where can
one study how to love save through loving?
There are certain things you just can’tlearn in
school.

“To study Shakespeare at a place like
Davidson College is to be prompted con-
stantly to ask why we’re here and what we
intend,” writes teacher and director of Love’s
Labour’s Lost Dr. Cynthia Lewis. “For even
if the end of a liberal arts education is learning
itself, all that knowledge will amount to little
if it bears no fruit.” :

So reflect the next time you find yourself
muddled in academics and your own “wit” at
the expense of all else. It is, after all, easy
enough to cure a bad case of all work and no
play. Why not start by seeing this one.
