6

__By Georia RINGLE

Special Contributor

David Jeter Blalock took his own life in early
Dec. 1989, his senior year at Davidson. As the
Health Educator on campus, I wanted all of the
current students to get a sense of this fine young
man and the many caring friends that he left
behind. Eric McKay, the student on campus
who has worked so hard to make the Blalock
Memorial Lecture Series possible this year, led
me to his old apartment roommates and other
KA brothers who were close to David.

What happened? How could this have been
prevented? No one I talked to had an answer,
nor is it ever that easy. It is Depression Aware-
niess Week, a time to remind you to look out for
each other and not to hesitate to talk to friends
and counselors about a dear friend that may
cause you concern.

Eric McKay was not here in 1989, but he
believes that “[David] was very much like every
Davidson student on this campus. I believe the
circumstances were a mixture of high stress,
deep depression, and some anxiety about the
future.

“I think these are all emotions several
Davidson students experience while at
Davidson, and luckily, with advances in the
fields of medicine and psychotherapy in the past

13 years, there are now may sources of help for’

people who become dangerously afflicted with
any of these emotions.

“The purpose of the Blalock Lecture Series is
to increase awareness of the overwhelming
prevalence of mood disorders and to educate the
public about the numerous sources of help. It’s
a simple goal, yet I feel it is also a very noble
one. The first Blalock Memorial Lecture was a
booming success. I hope the Second will be
equally as successful.”

Boyd Gilléspie 90 described his friend as

follows: “In many ways, David was the quintes-
sential Davidson student. He was from a good
family, and was popular, handsome, and ath-
letic. He possessed a keen intelligence which
was particylarly evident in small one-on-one
debates. He did not blindly accept politically
correct viewpoints without thorough consider-
ation.

“His most endearing characteristics were
somewhat old world, namely loyalty and cour-
age. Whether climb-
ing the slick wet
dome of Chambers
at 3AM or

“If mental illness is not recognized by a friend

contact with professors and parents may be’

limited. As David’ s friends and roommates, we
recognized these behaviors for years but did not
connect the dots. ‘Oh, he’s not depressed. He’s
just like me.’

“But he wasn’t just like us. David was strug-
gling with a darkness of the mind that we can
barely begin to comprehend. Mental illness is
common, and as potentially life-threatening as
any disease that might afflict the collegiate age
group. Hope is available in the form of effective

medications and
therapies. We want
Davidson students
’ to know this so that

windsurfing at the
edge of the horizon,
David often seemed

happiest, and per- ©

haps felt most alive,
when engaged in
some act of daring

it may be missed since contact with professors
and parents may be limited. As David's friends
and roommates, we recognized these behav-
iors for years but did not connect the dots. ‘Oh,
he’s not depressed. He’s just like me.’”

- Boyd Gillespie ‘90

they can continue to
do what they have
always done best...
care for each other.”

Tom Goodrum
90, another room-
mate, also said that

that put him just be-
yond the reach of
others.

“Like myself, and many college students,
David kept odd sleep-wake cycles, became
asocial during exams, was susceptible to emo-
tional highs and lows, and would occasionally
drink to excess.”

Gillespie now knows that “any or all of these
traits can be signs of major depression or manic-
depressive illness. These illnesses often first
appear during the college years when such
behavior does not seem out of place. In addition,
the only people there to observe these behaviors
are other students who are may be uninformed
concerning the signs, and symptoms of mental
illness.

“However, at college, if mental illness is not
recognized by a friend it may be missed since

HELP WANTED-HELP WANTED
Ben & Jerry’s ice cream seeks 1-2 part time
employees to staff the scoop stand in the
Alverez College Union. Evening hours,
good pay, perks, great uniform.
Please contact Karen, 704 892-0604 or pick
up an application at. the stand Monday-
Thursday from 6-9 pm.

ask about our US Stylists
$20 cut & style

spa packages

nail care

body treatments

skin care

“David was a really
friendly fellow but
with issues hidden deep down that his friends
didn’t know about. The tragic facts are that in
early December, David took his life by rigging

_ up his car and died of asphyxiation somewhere

beyond the senior apartments.
“Back then “depression” was far more stig-
matized than it is-now,’’ Goodrum admitted.

Thurs, Oct. 10: Dedication Recital,

6:15 p.m., Tyler-Tallman Hall, Sloan
Music Building. Come hear the brass
:..ensemble, the Chamber Singers, and
' othertalented performers from the Music
Department honor the opening of the
new performance hall.
works by Chopin and Mozart.

“Looking back it is apparent that David had
made his mind up. I had talked to him the

- afternoon prior and he was clear, jovial and

really saying goodbye. He was very calm. The
call came from another KA brother.

“Maybe it is the Davidson culture of go-go,
every duck in a row, very competitive feel to
life. David didn’t know whathis plans were past
Davidson. He would exhibit signs of manic
behavior but they can also look like “normal”
student behavior of staying up all night, sleep-
ing all day, a real topsy turvey schedule of
missing work and then cramming to make it all
up. You wouldn’texactly know there was some-
thing wrong if you weren’t looking for it.

“The perspective of an 18 - 22 year old is very
different from a 34-year-old. Things that look
really big aren’t' really that big. It is a very
difficult period in life and we need to look out
for the students. At the end of the day, I might
say it was a chemical imbalance that is very
treatable today. Alcohol is a depressant and that
doesn’t help when you are depressed.”

These are sad and wise words. I can hear the
pain in the voices of each friend that has called.
Tom mentioned a “trail of tears” and the contin-
ued pain that David’s family feels. Hopefully
we can all hold David in our hearts, live more
openly, and seek help with courage when life
closes in.

Music includes

Off Campus: The Congregation and Session of Centre Presbyterian Church would like to |

; invite students and Davidson College families to participae in the Heritage Church Family

. | Retreat October 11-13, 2002. Weather permitting on both Friday and Saturday evenings from _

» 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m.,.there will be outdoor campfires and music at the rear of the Church ©

| Campus.

| Inaddition, there will be an 8:30.a.m. Sunday worship service in the sanctuary, a multimedia ;
| presentation on the History of the Church from 9:00 a.m. to 10:45 a.m Saturday morning and ©
guided walks of historic cemeteries from 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. Saturday afternoon. The |

church is located at Exit 33 off of I77.

Have a great Fall Break!

SPRING BREAK 2003 WITH STS

America's #1 Student Tour Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

_ Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel.com

Tbiza aM) rW.S udentexpres:

***ACT NOW! Guarantee the best spring break prices! South Padre,
Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, Acaputico, Florida & Mardigras.
TRAVEL FREE, Reps Needed, EARN$$$. Group Discounts for 6+.

1 888 THINK SUN (1-888-844-6578 dept 2626)
www.springbreakdiscounts.com ***
