By Davip Crow
Staff Columnist

Cars advance more and more every year. From items as com-
monas dual front airbags to sophisticated luxuries like GPS navi-
gation systems, today’s cars seem to have more features and
newer technology than ever before.

However, as cars’ manufacturers make better cars than ever
before, there is one thing that has been getting worse: fuel
economy.

A recent report shows that average fuel economy for all new
2003 cars and trucks is just 20.8 miles per gallon. Fifteen years
ago, -the average fuel economy for 1987 model year cars and
trucks was 22.1 mpg.

And this trend is getting worse, not better. Since last year the
percentage of new vehicles getting more than 30 mpg has dropped
from six percent just a year ago to four percent this year.

This decrease in fuel economy is not just aresult of more SUVs
being sold either. Fuel economy forcars dropped this year to 23.6
mpg from 23.9 mpg a year ago and 24 mpg two years ago.

With all of the increasing technology available today, why is it
manufacturers continue to produce cars with such poor gas mile-
age?

The answer is simple: gas is cheap, and even during these poor
economic times people are willing to pay slightly more for gas if
it means they can have a bigger, better and badder car.

‘lanning to drive an SUV? Good tte buying gas ~

Fortunately, not all automobile manufacturers are following 7
this trend. Honda and Toyota, both Japanese automakers, have ~

sold gas electric hybrid cars that get over 50 mpg, and
Volkswagen, a German company, makes diesel cars that get simi-
lar mileage. In fact, those three companies make every car on the
list of the top 10 most fuel-efficient cars for 2003.

So while it is clear that the technology exists to make fuel-ef-
ficient cars, no U.S. automaker has stepped up to the plate and
released a high mileage vehicle. Instead companies like General
Motorsare releasing cars like the new Hummer SUV that get only
11mpg. GM officials say they hope to sell 40,000 by next year.

Shouldn’t the country that consumes more fuel and pollutes
more than any other be at the forefront of conservation efforts?

Congress doesn’t think so. Over the past year, Congress re-
jected multiple attempts to implement stricter fuel economy stan-
dards.

Within a decade, all of our gas-guzzling SUVs may become
obsolete because of a gas shortage. Recent studies estimate that
the world’s proven oil reserves could last less than 10 years at
current rates of consumption.

We must not brush off legislation to increase > fuel economy
standards. While this problem may seem less important than war
in Iraq or the struggling economy, the fact is that both of those
issues relate directly to our consumption of oil.

If we do not address our fuel problems today, these other crises
will only be exacerbated.

The Mickelson Theory: Consider the
evidence, decide for you rSeil (l Pan to)

Sometimes you stumble upon an idea so profound, brilliantand
groundbreaking that it can only come from somewhere up above.
When it happens, you feel like Jake and Elwood from The Blues
Brothers when they realize they have to put the band back to-
gether.

That’s how I felt when my friend Lane Estes explained to me
the “Mickelson Theory.” For those of you familiar with
ESPN.com columnist Bill Simmons, this will sound familiar to
the famous “Ewing Theory.”

Lane and I were watching Phil Mickelson tank it again in a
major golf tournament a while back. Phil is consistently in con-
tention to win a major, but never does. And everyone, including:
Phil, can see the final round collapse coming. You almost feel
sorry for the guy. But then you see his wife, and you realize Lefty
doesn’thave itso bad. The womanis absolutely gorgeous. We’ re
talking supermodel potential here.

It always bothered me that Phil never seemed upset or angry
after another failed attempt to win a big one. I mentioned this to
Lane as we watched Phil nonchalantly brush off another loss in
a post-match interview. . ,

And then Lane proceeded to explain to me his theory: When
you’ re with a really hot woman, you cannot perform at your peak
level, and you don’ treally care. But when things are on the skids,
you can magically pick it back up.

Candidates forthe “Mickelson Theory” must meet two require-
ments: First, you have to be really talented at your sport, and have
won at a high level in the past. Second, you have to now be with
areally, really beautiful woman.

It’s that simple. And the proof is all around us.

Mickelson nemesis Tiger Woods had what many would con-
sider to be a pretty good year. But it was actually a little below
expectations for him. Reckon that beautiful Swedish model he’s
dating has anything to do with it?

Andre Agassi was going pretty well before he met Brooke
Shields. Highly ranked, winning tournaments and sporting some

Senior
ource

by Jeremy Trantham

wild hair. He gets together with this girl, who inexplicably went
ona date with Michael Jackson, and his game goes to hell. Then
he breaks up with her, and becomes the top-ranked player in the
world again.

Look back at the great Wilt Chamberlain. Easily the dominant
offensive player of his time. 20,000 women. Two NBA cham-
pionships. That’s 10,000 women per title. Not a great ratio.

Lane and I are both big Braves fans. And on that fateful day I
learned of the theory, Lane asked me what year Chipper Jones
won the NL MVP. I knew the year, 1999, but forgot that it was
the same year he and his lovely wife were going through a messy
divorce. Coincidence?

Icould goon forever with stories. If you wantimmediate proof
go watch The Natural and notice what Kim Basinger’ s character
does to Roy Hobbs. Even fictional athletes aren’t immune to the
power of the “Mickelson Theory.”

Once again, I’m not blaming these women, although I’m sure
some of them are “high maintenance.” I’m just saying that hav-
ing a beautiful woman waiting for you at home is quite a distrac-
tion. A lot of time and energy must be spent on making them
happy. It’s nota bad thing, but it has to affect one’s performance.
And when it’s gone, the magic often returns.

I do often wonder if the “Mickelson Theory” applies to other
professions. Like say, a columnist. Do you lose your edge if
you’re hooking up with a Playmate? For the sake of science, I
should start dating one to find out.

His name is what?
Eminem’s back again

By ZacH WILLIAMS

Staff Columnist

The rising popularity of the notorious rapper Eminem will
surely reach a peak with the release of his acting debut this Fri-
day in 8 Mile. How unlikely is it that an artist previously con-
demned as ahomophobe, misogynist and all-around thug could
someday become such an icon in the music industry and pop
culture?.

It was only a few years ago that people were pointing to
Eminemasa possible scapegoat for the Columbine tragedy. His
2002 summer tour was purposely named the “Anger Manage-
ment Tour” as a direct response to the criticisms of politicians
and others who disapproved of his vulgar lyrics, whichincluded
assaults on gays and minorities.

Although Eminem denies harboring these feelings person-
ally, they remain an element of his music which he celebrates,
particularly because of the publicity it garners. And publicity
sells records.

EvenEminem’s gun and drug violations have been unable to
stifle an ever- increasing fan base that has turned the white rap-
per into a sort of pop culture icon. Meanwhile, the politicians
have mostly shut up, while music industry leaders have turned
their attention towards exploiting one of the newest and yet
most permanent fads in the business.

At first a villainous symbol for all that was wrong with
America, Eminem is now more of an anti-pop rebel adored by
fans and entertainers alike.

Eminem is becoming a more expansive cultural icon than
even Britney Spears or N’ Sync. His fan base, at first consisting
of suburban white teens, has now expanded to encompas many
who find themselves connecting with the rapper’ s rants against
humiliation, intolerance and deprivation. Eminem’ sartclearly
cuts across cultural boundaries and breaks down barriers be-
tween black and white like no pop icon has done before.

Although Eminem continues to rap against his popularity—
“T’m a just a regular guy, I don’t know why all the fuss about
me”— the hordes of admirers will only continue to grow.

His message, before condemned for its blunt political incor-

‘ rectness, is now famous for just those characteristics. As 8 Mile
opens in theatres this week, Eminem will be lauded for his
movie stardom, as well as his music. And then who will be able
to stop him? His music and movie-making abilities are about
to merge, and who would have thought five years ago that
Eminem would be on top of both worlds?

Division, from page 7

enough of them will alter oreven withhold financial contributions
if Davidson were to make the move.

But back to the query at base: Why is Davidson Div. I?

The most important answer: Because it’s always been that way.
Anyone who knows Davidson also knows that that’s pretty much
justification par excellence — and for just about anything.

Because the football team went to the 1969 Tangerine Bowl!
Because the basketball team went to the national quarterfinals in
1968 and ‘69! And because we can do it again!

It can happen again. That is why Davidson plays Div. I sports.
Is it the “right” thing to do? Who knows? And who’s to say
whether it is or it isn’t?

Look. The highest classification of college sports—thatis, foot-
ball and men’s basketball at, say, the 40 largest and most athleti-
cally inclined universities in America — is nothing but a set of
pseudo-minor leagues that use, in essence, slave labor to make
cold cash, all under the guise of higher education.

But also understand that Davidson, in spite of its Div. I status,
isn’tin that classification. Noteven close. Div. I might be aracket
—at least parts of it — but it’s anything but an equal-opportunity

racket.

oe ae eee © Soe op Be ee oe Oe ee eee ee ie ee Se Se ee eS

eer eeeneane

There’s what I'll call “TV Division I’’ — think Florida, Texas,
North Carolina, not to mention those cheerleaders and that face

paint—and then there’s the rest of Div. I. It’s a food chain, and it’s’

rigid.

Forthere tobe winners, of course, there mustalso be losers. The
losers exist, in a very real way, to support the winners’ lavish
lifestyle, in hopes that they might one day get some sort of kick-
back -a trip to the Sweet 16, a game on ESPN, a photo i in USA
Today.

Basedonanumber of relatively static factors—enrollment (and
therefore alumni base), fan following, media coverage, market-
ing and merchandising and, most importantly, the ensuing rev-
enue — all schools have their place. And they know what it is.

At Davidson?

‘Win in basketball, win some in football, soccer, maybe
‘women’s basketball and women’s soccer, try notto be embarrass-
ingly poor in everything else — that, although no one down at
Baker will ever admit it, is pretty much the athletic department’s
goal.

And know what? Fine. Great. Tremendous. There’s nothing
wrong with that. Just like there’s nothing wrong with Davidson’s
No. 195 ranking i in | Sports Illustrated’ s recent listing of the

re eee ee eenenene +e eae

eee wee

nation’s 327 Div. I schools. Even though Connolly calls it “be-
low average.”

That’s where we’re supposed to be. Maybe even a little lower
than that.

Yethere’s the fundamental flaw of so many folks’ pro-Div. III
diatribes: Why do Connolly and others seem to think Davidson
would turn into an athletic superpower at the Div. III level?

Guess what? The traditional winners in Div. III do many and
even most of thesame things the traditional winners in Div. I do.

They spend money on sports —on facilities, coaches, travel and
athletes. And they make academic concessions — in the admis-
sions process (to let them in) and i in the curriculum (to get doa
out).

It’s not magic, winning in College Sports, Inc. It’s a decision
—and then it’s a financial commitment.

Personally?1 think Davidson’s commitmentis aboutright, and
that its priorities are straight. No matter the level. And no matter
what some silly Sports Illustrated list might say.

Michael Kruse ’00has written for Basketball America, Basket-

ball Times, The Sporting News, ESPN.com andCBS SportsLine.
He is a former editor of The Davidsonian.
