igma Phi Epsiion Will Host

First-Ever Charity Run

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Special Contributor

What are you doing the weekend before
Thanksgiving Break? For the fleet-footed, the
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity is organizing a
Turkey Trot 5k run to benefit the Leukemia
and Lymphoma Society.

Organizers plan to make the race an annual
event.

The race will be held Saturday, Nov. 23, at
9:30 a.m. Participants will race through the
historic streets of Davidson, starting and fin-
ishing at the town green on the corner of Main
Street and Concord Road. Split times will be
read at the one- and two-mile marks.

The Sig Ep house is soliciting local busi-
nesses for sponsorship of the event in hopes that
the participant entry fees will be straight profit
for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. The
fraternity will also be accepting donations for
the charity, but hopes for a big student, faculty,
and community turnout on race day.

All entrants will receive a t-shirt on the day of
the race. The entry fee is $12 before November
20 and $15 on race day.

Awards will be given to the top two male and
female finishers and the top two finishers in
each of eight age groups.

For more information about the event contact
race directors Jimmy Swansbrough at (704)
894-6152 or Will Hale at (704). 894-6671.

Potassium iodide tablets will be available at
the Student Health Center beginning Nov. 6,
and they can be picked up Monday through

Friday between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m.

Students will be able to pick up pills for
personal use only and will need to fill out a
short form (name, address, etc.) for the use
of the Health Department.

Politics, from page 1

woefully lazy and unproductive when it comes
to activism.”

Dr. Mary Thornberry, chair of the political
science department, agreed. “These data make

’ the students sound more politically involved

than I would sus-
pect they really
are. How many

_Wepwespav, Novenmen 6, 2002

liberals or Democrats. jot
Those familiar with the Princeton Review’s
description of Davidson students as a “mix of
“Southernaristocrats” and “Bible-beating young
Republicans” with “a large liberal minority” are
taking particular delight in the survey results.
“T guess this ends
the myth _ that
Davidson is only

voted [in yester- “I would have bet a big conservative Re-
day’s election]? publicans,” said
Both Lee and chunk of change that the Emily Bostian ’06,
Thornberry are jus- secretary of the
tified in their ques- numbers would have been Young Democrats.
oe of students’ reversed. has eaten nine
activism. , e
Of the survey’s ‘ stereotype of
respondents, only - President B obby Vag t Davidson as a very
18.9 percent conservative school,

claimed to follow
politics and current events very closely, while
39.3 percent follow politics either not very
closely or not at all.

Despite the implications of this week’s mid-
term elections, only 8.8 percent of respondents
said they were following the 2002 elections.

Interestingly, though, conservatives and Re-
publicans on campus are statistically more
likely to be engaged in this year’s election than

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
110% Best Prices!
Mexico, Jamaica, Bahamas,
Florida, Texas.

Book Now and Receive
Free Parties and Meals
Campus Reps Wanted!
1-800-234-7007
endiesssummertours.com

4

we actually have a
wide range of views. I think this is great, and our
diverse viewpoints should enable us to have
some good political discussions about the issues
facing us, especially around election time.”

Bostian echoéd Lee and Thornberry’s senti-
ment about political action, “I’d love to see
people become more involved in politics on
campus.”

PCC info

Students are now able to buy PCC
stickers at the Union Information Desk
for $15 each. .

Each sticker is valid for one semester
and allows non-Patterson Court mem-
berstoconsumealcoholatany Patterson _
Court event (sorry, over 21’s only).

(704) 896-6739

Davidson, NC
101 DEPOT ST.

(NEXT TO BB&T)
joelsgrill.com

CATS ' LATE NITE SPECIALS
( WED- SAT 10 PM - 1:30 AM )

$1 SUSHI

CONGEE (RICE PORRIDGE)

TERIYAKI] DIS AND DAT

WRAPS (TOO MANY TO LIST)

NOODLE SOUPS (RAMEN, SOBA, ETC.)

RED BULL CONCOCTIONS
(NON-ALCOHOLIC & OTHERWISE)

AND MUCH, MUCH, MORE...

graduates with st tre

one-to-one academic advising.

apply by March 1.

For more information, visit

410-516-7748.

ream ol want to become Sancei?

academic records
for acceptance to the best medical schools _

by giving them the personal attention,
necessary science and math courses, and:

Pursue your dream of being a doctor and

www .jhu.edu/postbac or cali

ei don’t have the

