Hall of Fame welcomes

C2

four new members

Former president,
field hockey and
football stars, and
tennis coach are
ushered into hall

By CAROLINE HAUSER
Sports Editor

The athletic elite of °41, ’91, and
every class in between gathered last Sat-
urday evening to induct four new mem-
bers into the Davidson College Hall of
Fame. :

With the additions of Harry Fogleman,
John Kuykendall °59, James Thacker
55, and Virginia “Gigi” Cooke Tysinger
°91, the Hall now houses 60 portraits
commemorating the contributions of out-
standing individuals to Davidson athlet-
ics.

Present members and the inductees
joined friends, family, and other David-
son community members at a reception
and induction dinner.

College president Bobby. Vagt opened
the evening by highlighting the begin-
nings of Davidson athletics in the nine-
teenth century, commending those com-
mitted to preserving the school’s strong
traditions.

After an athlete’s dinner of prime rib
and potatoes, Terry Hines ’91 acknowl-
edged the Hall of Fame members or their
representatives present. Athletic Direc-
tor Jim Murphy ’78 then introduced the
four inductees, unveiling the black
wrapped and red ribboned portraits that
will hang in the Hall of Fame in Belk
Arena.

The Inductees

Harry Fogleman remains one of
Davidson’s most successful tennis
coaches, evidenced by his 175-69 record
over 11 years and six Southern Confer-
ence championships. :

The only Davidson coach to win two
conference championships in the same
school year, Fogleman also coached soc-
cer from 1962 to 1972, earning an 81-
33-8 record and two Southern Confer-
ence championships.

Fogleman’s daughter, too moved by
the sight of his portrait, simply and sin-
cerely thanked the school.

John Kuykendall led the 1958 soccer

team to its first winning season. More
widely known as the president of David-
son College from 1984-97, Kuykendall’s
tenure was marked by significant ath-
letic advancements,
completion of Baker Sports Complex and
Belk Arena, the restart of. women’s bas-
ketball and three NCAA Soccer pera
Cups.

Now a religion professor;
Kuykendall’s acceptance speech paid
tribute to the “bumblers, fumblers, and
uncoachable screw-ups,” among whom
he counts himself, who nevertheless
“loved Davidson athletics enough to
make occasional fools of themselves.”

James Thacker, a 1950s football
phenom, holds the third highest rushing
career total (1,676) and the school record
yards per run average (5.6). He also holds
the single run record for a 98-yard touch-
down against George Washington (the
university, not the president, as Jim
Murphy noted) in 1952.

Acknowledging Kuykendall’s enter-
taining acceptance speech—“How would
you like to follow a Davidson College
president?”—Thacker first thanked ‘his
wife, calling their engagement his “great-
est extracurricular achievement” while
at Davidson.

After thanking roommates and team-
mates, family and friends, Thacker re-
marked, “This evening’s celebration
serves to cap a very wonderful Davidson
experience. Thank you, and go, ’Cats!”

Virginia “Gigi” Cooke Tysinger was a
field hockey star in her Davidson career;
her 82 points remains the program’s
record.

Her 36 goals are the second highest in
Davidson history, and, with ten career
assists, she holds that record. Team cap-
tain for two years, Tysinger helped lead
the team to its best’record ever (14-1-2)
during her senior year.

Tysinger, the youngest inductee of the
evening, confessed to being “deeply
humbled” by the honor. She paid tribute
to her former coach and teammates, say-
ing, “I’m still in awe of the women I
played with.” Citing the program’s rocky
start, she said the team “knew how to
have fun and learned to win.”

Following dinner, the inductees and
most others present headed to Belk Arena
for the men’s basketball game against
Western Carolina.

In a halftime photo- op and presenta-
tion ceremony, the newest members of
the Hall of Fame were publicly acknowl-
edged and honored.

including the

Davidson College 2002 Hall of Fame inductees (I-r) Harry Fogleman,

Bill Giduz, Col lege Communications

John Kuykendall, James Thacker, and Virginia Cooke Tysinger.

Wrestlers continue to
struggle with injuries

By AMANDA MorDAVSKY

Staff Writer

Constant injuries and athletes quitting
continue to plague the Davidson wrestling
squad. For the sixth competition in a row,
the Wildcats have not had enough wres-
tlers to officially count their matches. The
NCAA requires that at least seven wres-
tlers compete in order for the match to
count; Davidson has been wrestling with
four. ;

Much of the debate over Wildcats leav-
ing the squad has come from a demanding
workout program. However, for those who
have remained, the competition is far from
over. Senior captain Jeff Bender explains,
“‘We’ ll be wrestling as individuals, techni-
cally, for the rest of the year, and we still
get to go to the conference tournament to
wrestle individually there”

Bender (157 pounds) has proved himself
on the individual side of wrestling, im-
proving his conference record to 2-0, and
has not lost a match in the last five compe-
titions.

On Jan. 22, the Wildcats opened their
Southern Conference season with #com-
petition against Appalachian State. Though
the team finished 46-3 overall, Bender
managed to pick up his first Southern Con-
ference win, beating Ryan LaRue in an 8-
5 decision.

Unfortunately, this was the only win of

Inspirational Quote of the Week

“Character cannot be developed in ease and quiet.
Only through experience of trial and suffering can
the soul be strengthened, ambition inspired, and

success achieved.”

_-Helen Keller

the day for the Wildcats. Appalachian’s
Steve Fox handled junior Grant Doornbos
(149) to win the competition, 6-3.
Appalachian’s Mark Fee, the defending
Southern Conference champion at 165
pounds, easily took down sophomore Mark
O’Hair, 15-1. Finally, in the 197-pound
division, freshman Brandon Zeigler lost a
close decision to Mark Hobbs, 3-1.

The Wildcats were back in action on
Saturday, January 26, this time with only
three wrestlers—Zeigler was unable to
compete due to injury. Once again, David-
son took a beating, losing 48-3 to confer-
ence rival UNC-Greensboro. Bender was
the only ’Cat able to score any points,
coming away with a close victory against
Nate Parmenter. Parmenter lead Bender 2-
0 in the first period before Bender tied the
match in the second period, and locked
down the match-winning point with only
23 seconds remaining.

In the only other competitions of the
day, both O’ Hair and Doornbos competed
fiercely, but, in the end, could not manage
a win. Ron Williams of UNC-Greensboro
snuck by O’ Hair with a 3-2 decision, while
Doornbos lost a close match to UNC-
Greensboro’s Keith Ritter in a 9-8 riding
time decision.

The ’Cats are next in action on Saturday,
Feb. 1, when they take on the Duke Blue
Devils in Durham, NC. The first match
begins at 7:30 p.m.

MEN’s BASKETBALL » . WRESTLING
Feb. 2 @ Appalachian State 1:00 Feb. 1 @ Duke 7:30
Feb.5 | UNC-Greensboro 7:00 Feb. 6 Gardner-Webb 7:00
Women’s BASKETBALL MEn’s TENNIS
Jan. 31 Gardner-Webb 7:00 Jan. 31 @ UNC-Chapel Hill 2:30
Feb. 2 @ UNC-Greensboro TBA Feb.2 Belmont Abbey 9:00
Feb. 5 @ Furman 7:00 Queens 1:30

MEN’s INDOOR TRACK

Women’s INDoor TRACK

Feb. 1-2 @ VMI Winter Relays

Feb. 1-2 @ Maryland Eastern Shore
