Student director Bill

By Emity Drew |
News Editor .

Three emotionally unstable sisters just re-
turned to their Northern English home to handle
the business of their mother’s death. Soon,
.though, they are galavanting around their dead
mother’s bedroom, trying on her dresses, drink-
ing whiskey, and sharing a joint. They pose for
a picture taken by a brother-in-law, and sud-
denly you notice something is just slightly
wrong. I don’t want to spoil theésurprise, but in
that last stunning moment of Act I, it hits you
full-force that this is a play that shouldn’t be
missed.

The Memory of Water, a play by Shelagh
Stephenson, crosses between two worlds, dis-
plays a wide variety of rocky relationships, and
reveals how people deal with their troubled past
in light of their present problems.

With its clever lines and diverse characters,
the play can stand on its own as a comedy (it
won the 2000 Olivier Award for Best Comedy,
after all). But under the direction of theatre

major Bill Neville 03, Davidson’s production
of Memory mingles the innumerable feelings
that often overwhelm the breaking points of life
and relationships.

Liz Sykes ‘04 designed the set and costumes
for Memory, and Theatre faculty member
Ronnie Higdon designed lights and sound.
Parker Dixon ‘03 acts as the stage manager.

All the production’s parts come together be-
cause of what Professor Ann Marie Costacalled
a “student engine.” “The students have really
taken ownership of the project.” Costa said she
and Professor Joe Gardner have acted as advi-
sors at the periphery of the project, but have
been able to step back and let the students form
their own “high quality design.”

The'design includes a treated floor of stone
and water, and a lighting scheme where blue
cirlces in with mellow music at times to create
an atmosphere that is as uncertain as it is calm.

At the plays center, though, is an ensemble of
six well-directed and talented actors. Rebecca
Ragland ’03 plays the youngest sister,
Catherine. Neville calls Ragland’s performance

CUMMIN' ATTRACTIONS

Chamber of Secrets casts magical spell

By CHARLES CUMMINS
Staff Writer

Over the past few months, or more truthfully,
" since the credits began to roll on Harry Potter
and the Sorcerer’s Stone this time last year, the
anticipation continued to build for the release of
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets, re-
counting the adventures of the young wizard
and his best friends Ron Weasley and Hermione
Granger during their second year at Hogwarts’
School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. With big-
ger sets, better special effects, adarker storyline,
and the return of the entire cast of the original
production, Chamber of Secrets continues
where The Sorcerer’s Stone left off, leading the
audience on an incredible
roller coaster ride of adven-
ture with few, if any, low
points.

When Harry Potter and
the Sorcerer’s Stone was ini-
tially released, many report-
ers criticized the film for be-
ing too faithful to the details .
of the book, forcing the film
to finish with a running time of 2 hours and 32
minutes. I thought the attention to detail was
justified in the first film, which needed to estab-
lish significant background for our entrance
into the world of magic. However, Chamber of
Secrets suffers, particularly towards the begin-
ning, from its attention to the multiple minor
story lines that accompany the opening of the
Chamber of Secrets. Yet, once the film focuses
upon the search for the Chamber of Secrets, the
story moves so smoothly toward its magical,
adventurous, yet surprisingly violent conclu-
sion that you won’t even notice'the length.

The responsibility for the success of this film
has been left to Daniel Radcliffe (Harry), Rupert
Grint (Ron), and Emma Watson (Hermione),
the main child actors who are visibly growing
up on screen. Because the books follow Harry
and his friehds between the ages of eleven and
eighteen during their stay at Hogwarts’, their

Wwyy

aging is a key aspect of the stories. Each of.the
three main stars, all rather inexperienced when
they first took on the roles, have become more
comfortable as actors on screen. Their inexpe-
rience is balanced by the skill of renowned
British actors, including Maggie Smith, Alan
Rickman, Jason Isaacs, Kenneth Branagh, and
the late Richard Harris.

As the child actors get more comfortable with
the personalities of their individual characters,
so do the critically acclaimed adult actors.
Maggie Smith, in a more minor role than she
had in the Sorcerer’s Stone, successfully por-
trays the motherly Professor Minerva
McGonagall, caring yet not unwilling to pun-
ish, and Alan Rickman returns in his portrayal
of the deceptively strict Professor Snape. Jason
Isaacs, best known for his
portrayal of Colonel Will-
iam Tavington in The Pa-
triot, offers a well-done per-
formance as Lucius Malfoy,
the evil father of Harry’s
nemesis Draco. With a lim-
ited but impressive perfor-
mance, the audience can’t
help but hate this guy.

However, the most powerful adult perfor-
mances belong to the newest cast member Ken-
neth Branagh (leaving behind Shakespeare tem-
porarily) as playboy Gilderoy Lockheart, and
Richard Harris, who died October 25" of
Hodgkin’s disease, as Headmaster
Dumbledore. Branagh uses his classical train-
ing toembody the deceptive playboy Lockheart,
whose smile and concern for his looks shadows
his inability to aid Hogwarts in peril.

While the movie centers on the adventures of
Harry Potter in his second year at Hogwarts, this
movie belongs to Richard Harris as Headmaster
Dumbledore. His handful of scenes possess a
powerful and moving feel for the audience,
since we are aware that these are the last scenes
Harris ever performed in a career that spanned

FORCTMOMMAOCS. COD

see Chamber, page 6

an “unmissably hilarious tour-de-force.” More
frankly, she’s a whirlwind and a hoot. Con-
stantly over-the-top, Catherine is often childish,
usually lonely, and always sexy. Her tantrums
are captivating as she fights for her family’s
attention (and gets it). Ragland’s performance
will capture audience attention as well.

Susan Robison ’04 tackles the difficult role of
Teresa, the bitchy, angry sister. Robison—who
is neither bitchy nor angry off-stage—proves
her natural talent in aclimactic, drunken scream-
ing match between Teresa and her husband
Frank, played by Ara Dilleepan ’03. Both
actors in this scene play off each other with
excellent timing, to show a deep-rooted tension
in a deep-rooted love.

The main love story, though, falls between
Mary (Sara Romeis ‘03) and her married lover
Mike (Chandlee Caldwell ’03). The couple
never let me forget they were in love, and I was
especially impressed by Caldwell’s unwaver-
ing gazes toward Mary. Both Caldwell and
Romeis were always aware that their characters
craved something more.

Kristal High ‘04 gave a notable performance
as well. Even if she never said a word, High’s
facial expressions alone would prove the el-
egance, the wit, and the resentment locked
inside Vi, the dead mother whose visits frame

Neville presents Memory

the play.

The story of Memory is told theoeih
Stephenson’s clever dialogue, but the relation-
ships of the characters are built and made real-
istic through Neville’s well-timed silences.
Neville uses the white space of the stage to
reveal long-felt, underlying tensions between
the characters.

The tensions are felt most in the awkward —
silences, and burst through at places like the end
of Act I, where set design, lighting, acting,
directing, and script click together in an emo-
tionally charged moment that successfully en-
capsulates the play’s themes of gaining through
losing and loving through hurting. And there’s
also more of that rippling blue light that makes
the set seem other-worldly and momentarily
unaffected by the painful act of living.

Tonight, Nov. 20, is opening night. The show
starts at 7:30 in the Black Box Theater of
Cunningham Fine Arts. General admission
tickets are $4 and will be sold at the door
beginning 30 minutes before curtain. Seating is
limited, but if you don’t make it tonight, you
have four more chances, same place, same
price: Thursday through Saturday, Nov 21-23,
at 7:30 p.m. and Sunday, Nov. 24, at 2 p.m. For
more information, call 704-894-2361.

Pearl Jam resurfaces with
its latest album, Riot Act

By Tuomas CULLEN
Special Contributor

Most of you probably didn’ tknow that Pearl
Jam still put out albums; most of you probably ~

don’t care. The relative lack of public interest in
the band does not detract from the precision and
creativity of the band’s seventh studio album,
Riot Act. If the apocalyptic cover doesn’t deter
you from buying the record, you will find that
this band is still producing music that blows
bands such as the justifiably mocked Creed and
unoriginal, greasy Puddlé of Mudd out of the
water. Pearl Jam is the uninterested patriarch of
this family of dissenting offspring rock bands;
here, son is nothing like father.

Mike McCready is the most underrated lead
guitarist of our time. Listen to the album and
you will get an inkling of what I’m talking
about. After that, listen to the other six albums
he has played on and realize the degree to which
he commands the guitar. He plays notes which
some of you may still cling to from songs such
as the jagged solo from “Animal” or the gentle
strum of the song you have trouble admitting
you enjoy, “Daughter.” I know you love it;
attempts to deceive yourself only hurt you in the
long run. X

The solos he plays combine experimentation
with the science of the instrument to create
sounds that bands that fall under today’s cat-:
egory of “modern rock” will never approach, A
perfect example of such skill surfaces on the
song entitled “Get Right.” Grounded by Jeff
Ament’s revolutionary play of the bass (if there
was arecord of him alone playing bass I would
purchase it upon its release), the song churns
toward an explosive chorus filled with the same
vocal conviction Eddie Vedder showed on
“Why Go,” from the band’s debut disc. There’s
no need for me to name that record; if you don’t
own it, you didn’t live through the nineties.

Afterthe second chorus, Vedder’ s voice gives
way to the basic rhythm guitar of Stone Gossard
that has driven the song up to this point, which
is then overtaken by the gushing sound of
McCready’s guitar. I don’t think it’s unfair to
say that many bands today could not replicate
three notes of the solo in sequence. Not only
does Pearl Jam go where others bands will not,
they go where other bands cannot.

Released after nearly twelve years together
as Pearl Jam, Riot Act sheds light on a band
uninterested in what the mainstream is doing.

Diiaterented is a role Vedder and Co. play
extremely well; they’ve had a lot of practice.
Honestly, there hasnt been a whole lot to be
I'll respect Linkin Park when the new Guns &
Roses album comes out (please give up on them
America, Ax] wearing a Jerry Rice jersey at the
Video Music Awards was a personal insult
based upon my NFL allegiance).

Aggression has been the band’s strongest suit
since the public met akid named “Jeremy” back
when I was 10 or 11; Riot Actreturns to the more
evident, yet not necessarily predictable, style of
rock that people dismissed as nonexistent on the
last record, 2000’s Binaural (Binaural is crimi-
nally overlooked in the musical scheme of the
year 2000). Punishing the ears, tracks such as
“Save You” and “Ghost” remind the listener of
just how potent these five men are together. To
condense the album into a single critical com-
ment, I would say that Riot Act is a showcase of
just how dominant the band can be, mixed with
deviations from the norm which show that these
men are still evolving as a band.

_Playing drums for Pearl Jam seems to be a
wholly temporary task. The latest inductee is
Matt Cameron. For those of you who didn’t rip
posters of Pearl Jam out of 1994-95 issues of Hit
Parader and euphorically scotch tape them to
your wall, Cameron spent his early career play-
ing for Soundgarden. Pioneers of the genre of
grunge, Soundgarden legitimately assaulted
their instruments. The songs penned by
Cameron on this album reflect a similar attack
(“Cropduster” “You Are” “Get Right’).
Cameron’s music has a fullness to it that results
in arguably the best tracks on the record. Rank-
ing the songs from an album this well crafted is
a task that calls for intense analysis. That’s why
I’m not going to do it; I'll let you pick after you
buy it.

You may not have read this far. If you did,
welldone. I respect you forreading about a band

‘that writes consistently great albums that have

been consistently overlooked since 1996’s No
Code (to hear an exhibition of what it is to play
drums well, pick this up). Let me say finally that
the album is flawless. From the basic drum beat
of “Can’t Keep” to the final notes of the closer
“All or None,” Pearl Jam shows the audience
where they have been (“Get Right”), where they
are (“Cropduster”), and where they may end up
(“Love Boat Captain”). Frankly, I want the next
record now.
