"Staff Columnist

As we enter this holiday season, it is fitting to reflect on all the
American people have to be thankful for following the recent
election. In addition to giving President Bush the Senate votes he
needs to advance his agenda, the Republican victory has served
to illuminate the true nature of the Democratic Party.

Throughout the Clinton years, Democrats attempted to portray
themselves as the middle-of-the-road party while ruthlessly as-
saulting Republicans as reactionaries hell-bent on turning
America into a theistic police state. Despite his many faults,
Clinton did sign NAFTA and welfare reform into law, both of
which were primarily Republican initiatives.

However, beginning with Al Gore’s acceptance speech at the
2000 Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, the
Democratic Party has been swinging steadily to the left. This
trend culminated in recent weeks, with Nancy Pelosi being named
House Minority Leader and Gore himself make the rounds on
cable news channels advocating a single-payer health care sys-
tem (God help our neighbors to the North should he ever become
President — Mexico is a long way to drive for an ultrasound).

What the recent election has done is make clear that the Repub-
lican Party is in touch with the American mainstream. The recent.

~ success of conservative Republicans shows that voters want low

taxes, small, unobtrusive bureaucracies, a strong military, person-
alized retirement plans and safety from terrorists. As Oregon
demonstrated, Hillary-Care does not appear to be high on the
voters’ wish list.

The Democrats seem completely oblivious this trend. Rather
than trying toreach outtoa large bloc of independent voters— who
are currently swinging Republican — they are attempting to ener-
gize their liberal base by moving even more to the left. However,
as Bob Novak recently suggested in the Chicago Sun-Times, the

Democratic base is simply not large enough to consistently win.

national elections.

Since the early 1980’s the American people have been leaning

noticeably to the right. It is no mistake that the only Democratic

president since then was fairly centrist. The Democrats’ oblivi-
ousness to the current political reality will quite possibly become
the best thing to happen to the GOP since the election of Ronald
Reagan.

Currently, the GOP offers the American people most of what
they want and very little of what they don’t. Unless the Demo-
cratic Party realizes its message is not in tune with the wishes of
the voters, they could find themselves in the minority for years to
come.

We didn’t ask the ‘wrong’ questions

Inarecent letter to the editor, Professor Denham in the German
department criticized the students of Public Opinion 319 for ask-
ing the “wrong” questions in a survey. He wrote that the number
of minority students graduating with a major does not tell the
proper story about diversity in a de-

article really do exist and are in fact irrefutable. The data for the
article are the actual ethnic background and major of the mem-
bers of the Class of 2002. Despite its headline, the article does not
include any data from our survey.

How one chooses to interpret the

partment. He went on to explain
other interesting facts, such as how
the German department gives finan-
cial aid to minorities who study
abroad. Even if what Denham
claimed is true, he misinterpreted the
goal of the survey, just as he said re-
porter Rob Heindrick did in his Nov.
13 article.

Since when is asking a student
“what is your major?” a “wrong”

Even if the purpose of the
survey were to “uncover”
minority students’ prefer-

ences for majors, German
would still fall behind.

article’s data is different. We had
nothing to do with publication of the
“big graph” which Professor
Denham argues assigns blame to the
German department for being an oh-
so-white major. Yet, even if the pur-
pose of the survey were to “uncover”
minority students’ preferences for
majors, German would still fall be-
hind. The truth is, as Professor
_ Denham stated himself, German has

question? We did not create the sur-
vey to point fingers at those majors with less diversity, orto imply
“patterns and trends that may not
even exist.” We simply wanted to
capture students’ opinions on a di-
verse array of issues. Ourclass could
have asked narrower questions about
how many minorities participated in
study-abroad programs or “German”
classes. But is there really anything
wrong with the general, yet concise
questions we asked the student body? We think not.

Despite Denham’ s claim, the patterns explained in the Nov. 13

not graduated a single minority stu-
dentin years. And itis great that one in 10 participants in the Ger-
man study-abroad program is a minority, but this figure means
nothing unless compared to other majors.

Let us stress that graduating minority students from a major
does not necessarily prove diversity in a department. Professor
Denham is right about that, but his basis for finding fault in our
work is not. It seems he too was quick to misread both the Nov.
13 article and the objective of our survey.

Students of Public Opinion,
Political Science 319

Jump on the Wildcats’ bandwagon

Sitting in the midst of afew thousand Cameron Crazies, ahand-
ful of Davidson basketball fans and I were the only ones in the
stadium screaming with 1:06 remaining in the game.

Thanks toa Wayne Bernard lay-up, the Wildcats had pulled to
within six points of the Blue Devils in what is arguably the most
difficult college arena to play in as a visiting team.

’ Seldom have I been so proud to be a Davidson student. The
fight that our Wildcats showed to pull within six points of the No.
4 Blue Devils showed the special
character this team must have.

Coming off a season in which we
won the Southern Conference and
nearly knocked off Ohio State in the
firstround of the NCAA tournament,
this is a great way to start a new sea-
son.

WhatI really wantto pose is achal-
- lenge to the Davidson students. I realized standing in the middle

of all those damn Dukies that we as a student body owe it to our-
selves and our school to go out and support our basketball team—
and every other team—as vivaciously and boisterously as we
possibly can.

Davidson is a school seeking to gain national recognition.
Please, you have to admit it pisses you off when someone says,
“Now, where is Davidson exactly?” :

Following the Duke game, Linda Cohn of ‘ShofaCeniar said
something along the lines of, “We here at ESPN ask ourselves
every year after this game: Where is Davidson College?” Obvi-

ously, Cohn’s comment is annoying, but that’s the reality—
people just don’t know where our college is located.

Think about how much national recognition Duke has gained
simply by being well known for its basketball arena and the fans
that camp out for days to get tickets. Granted, Duke is a fine aca-
demic institution with fantastic graduate programs, but from an
undergraduate standpoint Davidson is just as strong, if not stron-
ger.

Simply put, Duke’s basketball program and its national expo-
sure correlate directly. Come« on Davidson, let’s get out there and
support this team.

Belk Arenais a great atmosphere for college hoops. The lower
student sections provide kids with a great vantage point right on
top of the play. If you are one of those people who get a huge rise

out of screaming at opposing players who can actually hear you,

come to Belk—we need you.
So here’s the deal. We are going to come out in full force to
all basketball home games this year and henceforth. When its 7
p.m. and you are in the library grinding away at some homework
assignment that you don’t really need to do, just think how much
more fun you could be having sitting and cheering on your school
with a few thousand other fans.
And next time that person says to you, ““What’s that Davidson
College like? Where is it?” Just think, “I need to go to more bas-

_ ketball games.”

Jeff Hamilton.‘05

by Jeremy Trantham

Can’t g0 home again?
I’ve got 1 more chance

Hendersonville, NC, is where I lived forthe first 18 years of my
life. Native bias aside, it’s really a beautiful area to grow up.
Small, rural and surrounded by mountains, I suppose
Hendersonville is a nice place to raise a family. But that doesn’t
make an exciting place to grow up.

Because it is such a nice, small town, Hendetioniville has be-
come a popular retirement community. The most exciting thing
that happens there is the yearly North Carolina Apple Festival—
acelebration of the county’s biggest cash crop. Maybe when I’m
56 I’ll appreciate such events, but when you’re 17, the Apple
Festival is just something to make fun of.

The reason I mention all of this is because I basically spent the
past 20 years of my life working to get out of Hendersonville.
Anywhere had to be more exciting than that place, orsoI thought.

NowI’m going home for my last Christmas break. Mostlikely
it’s the last time I’m going to live there for any significant amount
of time. More and more I’m finding the prospect of my final break
a little bittersweet, and not just because I will soon be losing a
laundry service and home-cooked meals (proof that I may miss
mom more than she misses me).

This break will also be the last time my friends and I will be in
town together too. I’m not talking about high school acquaintan-
ces here either. These are the kids you grew up with. The ones
who were there the first time you got drunk. ‘The ones who held
you up the first time you got sick from drinking. The group you
hung out with in the parking lot after school arguing over week-
end plans.

The kids who you can now see, after not having spoken for
several months, and immediately feel comfortable. Things have

changed over the years. Arguments used to be about whom we

were going to find to buy us beer on Friday night. Now, it’s who
gets designated driver duty. Age has changed the context of our
arguments, butthe restis the same. You can’t puta price on friend-
ship like that.

Despite the besti intentions, you tend to lose track of your friends
when you get to college. It happens slowly, but one day you re-
alize you haven’t spoken to someone you saw everyday for 10
years in far too long. You drift apart. It happens. At least you
could rely on spending a couple of weeks together around the
holidays. After this year, that’s gone too.

It’s nothing to get overly upset about. Life moves on, and sodo
we. Pretty soon it won’t be school that keeps us apart, but jobs,
family and the responsibility of adulthood.

Sothis New Year’s will be acelebration of the end of one phase
of my life and the beginning of a new one. I’ll be somewhere in
downtown Asheville with my friends. Bar hopping, making fun
of my friends and performing stupid acts that are reserved for the
young. As you can tell, I’m looking forward to it.

They say you can’t go home again. Well I am going one last
time, if only fora moment. And I can’t wait.

