Staff Editorial

How much would you pay to see Dave Matthews at Davidson
next spring? $40? $50? What about $150,000? That’s how much
the school might have to shell out if Matthews decides to play
here. And keep in mind that we’d only get the “Dave Matthews”
part of the “Dave Matthews Band.” If we’re lucky, a guitarist
might come too.

To be fair, nobody here has actually confirmed that we’ re of-
fering Matthews that much money. But the Union Board has said
that our offer is “competitive” with what other schools will pay:
according to numbers found on Dave Matthews Web sites, as
much as $150,000.

We all know the school paid a lot for the RSC last year, and
apparently quite a lot: the exact numberis kepttop-secret. But that
makes sense. The Royal Shakespeare Company has significant
educational and cultural value. And last time we checked, you
couldn’t see them at Verizon Wireless Amphitheatre in Charlotte
every summer.

First of all, let’s be clear: we love having big names play at
Davidson.

Last spring, Ludacris played Belk Arena for about $40,000, and
John Mayer appeared earlier this year for about $52,000. It’s
probably fair to say that Dave Matthews is an even bigger draw.

150 thousand dollars is a staggering figure,
even if it’s only a possibility, and it deserves
some explanation to the students.

And ofcourse, the point of selling concerttickets is torecoup most
of the initial outlay. Dave Matthews consistently ranks at the top
of student concert requests. So we’re excited that the Concert
Committee has taken students’ suggestions and is acting on it.

But $150,000 is a staggering figure, even if it’s only a possibil-
ity, and it deserves some explanation to the students. Would
Davidson end up losing money on the event? Will paying a music
act such a huge amount of money take away from other worthy
endeavors, like scholarship funds or teaching positions?

We're not suggesting that the school shouldn’t spend money —
even lots of it — on fun events like concerts. But when the costs
skyrocket, maybe the student body should be part of the discus-
sion about how much is too much.

Especially when the band isn’t even part of the deal.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Emily Drew Caroline Hauser
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
Richard Connolly Mike Giglio ]
Photography Editors
_Eron Earley-Thiele_ Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers |
Jeff Larrimore Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa
Web Editor
»... Anders Langworthy |

www.davidson.edu/davidsonian

NON SEQUITUR -

BLATKER TRE ONLY
IN BLIRER BLATE
i BLATHER BLATHER

EEK/ NOW OKRE
a ie 6UCH AN ,
ARROGANT .POATION!
obi adaitgena
NeRnL PHOAEEN!

DON'T You
Just LOVE THE
INTELLECTUAL
GUNULVS oF

Professor questions
analysis of poll data

In his article on the survey that examines parallels between
“race” and major (News, Nov. 13), Rob Heidrick does a good job
doing what so many journalists do well: he turns survey data into
received truth. The results of a survey taken by Professor Sellers’
“Public Opinion” students gets a big graph, implying patterns and
trends that may not even exist. _

To Heidrick’s credit he quotes Sellers on just that point: the
sample is not large enough; no firm conclusions are possible.
Nevertheless, most readers will leave the article with the graph in
mind and the list of those two oh-so-black majors and the four oh-
so-white majors, one of which is German. If one goes by majors,
German has had an all-white class of majors for years. But were
Sellers’ students asking the right questions? Do numbers of mi-
norities graduating with a major tell
the proper story? I think not.

The statistics we get in The
Davidsonian misrepresent, in the case
of the German program at Davidson
at least, the truth with respect to stu-
dent participation. How about these
statistics: percentage of African-
American students receiving
Fulbright grants to Austria last year: 50 (one of two). Percentage
of African-American students studying on our JYA program in
Wiirzburg this year: 11 (one of nine).

About one in 10 Davidson participants in study abroad pro-
grams in Germany is a minority. One of those recently minored
in German and received a Fulbright grant to Austria, a rare and
high distinction; that student plans to go on in German studies in
graduate school next year. I believe our minority participation
numbers are more like those of other departments here. Sure the
numbers are small (and thus counting at all seems somehow odd),
but we are pleased with our record.

Heidrick is right about one thing though, and he puts it well:
“Davidson lacks diversity, and incomplete diversity means an
incomplete college experience.”

Scott Denham
Professor of German

=)

by WILEY

practices fair?

Aside from its status as a highly selective liberal arts college,
Davidson prides itself on the character of its students in addition
to their academic and athletic successes. In theory, all colleges
should look for such well-rounded students. Unfortunately, most
do not. It appears that many applicants are unfairly evaluated on
both standardized test scores and family status.

A typical requirement for admittance into a highly reputable
college is high scores on standardized tests. This is perhaps the
most ambiguous assessment of a student’ s intelligence available.
Whereas grade point averages usually indicates a student’ s work
ethic, the standardized test scores seem to indicate which students
spent more time with tutors or in classes aimed at the standard-
ized tests.

This enables students who have sufficiént time and money to
have an unfair advantage over those who do not have such oppor-
tunities. Thus, students are evaluated according to how well they
have been taught to learn the patterns and particular information
on the test. These strategy sessions defeat the purpose of the stan-
dardized test in the first place; these tests are intended to level the
playing field to ensure an unbiased and fair assessment of a
student’s aptitude.

Moreover, the student who is able to spend time and money re-
taking such tests has a trial and error system. Obviously, SATs
and ACTs are more important than any type sport or extracurricu-
lar activity, specifically ones that hold competitions on Saturday
mornings. They are not, however, more important than a student’s
dedication to his or her particular team. A student who continu-
ally abandons his or her team is essentially abandoning the com-
mitment to the team and thus violates principles that are an inte-
gral part of success at college: dedication, selflessness and respon-
sibility. ;

The second and maybe most disgusting aspect of the admis-
sions process is the evaluation of a student’s family status. With
society demanding diversity on campuses nationwide, colleges
often admit students of a particular gender or race while com-
pletely abandoning the concept that the best candidate should get
the position. In addition to this bias in admissions, colleges also
evaluate a family’s financial situation. It is appalling that the top
universities in the country are willing to admit unqualified stu-
dents merely because their family donated some ridiculous
amount of money to finance a new building on campus.

By admitting these wealthy students, colleges may also claim
that they meet more of the financial need of incoming students
because itis consequently very low. Additionally, a family legacy
nearly ensures any student a spot in the freshman class. What a
disadvantage this poses to hard working students who may be the
first generation in the family to go for a college education.

It appears as if misrepresentations of intelligence in accor-
dance with wealth equate to success in the world of collegiate ad-
missions. Even if such schools are not permitting politics to domi-
nate their admissions process, they seem to seek raw numbers
instead of students characterized by integrity and principles.

Davidson College should be proud of its avoidance of such

_pitfalls, and hopefully other universities will follow suit.

Joe Taylor ‘06

ote Ne
Svaic'
HacNeee

wosvere?

