Last week, American Cardinals of the
Catholic Church met with the Pope to discuss

how to deal with sexually abusive priests.

While the Church should be praised for set-
ting a one-strike-and-you’re-out policy for
most cases of abuse, the Cardinal’s statement
also said, ao with the fact that a link
between celibacy
and pedophilia can-
not be scientifically
maintained, the
meeting reaffirmed
the value of priestly
celibacy as a gift of
God to the Church.”

The fact that the
issue of celibacy
was given so little
attention begs for a
further examination
of just what connection there may be between
celibacy and sexual abuse.

Some people have argued that priests
who sexually molest minors should not be
considered pedophiles, because they’re en-
gaging sexually mature teenagers rather than
children.

But the fact that they are not technically
pedophiles actually gives more support to a
connection between celibacy and sexual
abuse. Dr. Leslie Lothstein, Director of the
Institute of Living in Hartford, Conn., says
many priests who molest children “entered
seminary as teenagers and were sexually un-
dernourished, didn’t date and never really
defined their sexuality.”

These priests were never able to fully de-
velop their sexuality because of celibacy, and
as aresult turn towards young men and women
to satisfy their desires.

Eugene Kennedy, a former priest, agrees.
“Many young men at a very early age were
recruited into it [the priesthood] before they

David Crow ‘05

ling celibacy rule is
the Church’s best optio

understood themselves or their own sexual
identity. Their psycho-sexual maturation has
been put on hold. As a result they tend to act
out with young people who were more or less
the age they were when their maturation
process stopped.”

If not for celibacy, these priests would have
been allowed the opportunity for further sexual
maturation and they would not have needed
to act out their sexual desires on youngsters.

Father Richard McBrian of the University
of Notre Dame says that celibacy was not
originally part of the Catholic tradition.

‘“‘We have had a married clergy even in the
Roman Catholic Church through the first
millennium,” he says. Catholic priests, in-
cluding.39 popes, married for 1,100 years,
until the first and second Lateran Councils in
1123 and 1139 mandated celibacy.

At that time, celibacy was seen not as a
“sift of God,” but as a means to give priests
more credibility, and as a way for the Church
to inherit the property of priests after their
death.

Today, the vast majority of American
Catholics agree that celibacy is no longer
needed. According to a USA Today poll,
75% of American Catholics favor allowing
Catholic priests to marry...

So why not make celibacy optional? Doing
so would certainly attract more people to the
priesthood and show that the Church is will-
ing to move forward with the times.

Whatever changes are made must come
from the very top. While some American
Cardinals such as Roger Mahony have called
for open discussions about celibacy, the Pope
remains steadfast in his insistence that the
issue is closed.

Since only the Vatican can make such a
monumental decision, it is saddening that a
discussion of celibacy played such a minor
role in the recent Vatican conference.

I was not the happiest person in the world
when I heard-Ludacris was going to perform
here at Davidson tonight.

As much as I like hip-hop and can appreci-
ate the amusing parts of some rap albums, I
really don’t like to see it live. Most rap shows
devolve into entourages and extended family
members wander-
ing around onstage
as_half-clothed
girls dance around.
I would much
rather see a big-
name alternative or
rock group here
than Ludacris.

However, Ican’t
Mm believe that some
| peopleare actually
offended by his
coming to David-
son.

Ludacris does use the infamous “N” word,
and some would say that he objectifies women
in his songs by calling them hoes. It would
also be hard to find any social commentary in
his lyrics. True, in Ho he does say that males
are “hoes, too,” a statement that could
indicate equality between the sexes.

Unfortunately, that argument is destroyed
at the end of the song when he says toa female
who is arguing with him, “Hoe, bring your
@ss.” She complacently replies, “Ok, hold
on.” This theme is basically repeated in J got
Hoes. Songs like What’s Your Fantasy and
Freaky Thangs are basically long descrip-
tions of sex put to a beat.

But should we oppose him coming to David-
son? Should we censor his lyrics and make
him perform only “Davidson-approved”
songs?

Of course not. First of all, if we really
wanted to analyze the lyrical content of main-
stream rock artists, we. would find that they

Mike Galdo ‘04

_ sing about the same subjects (sex with hot

Admit it: You’ll

Many students, upon their yearly depar-
ture of dear ole’ Davidson, find it hard to
matriculate into a society where there is not’
a crippling amount of homework and a con-
stant flow of “History Channel” gossip. For
this reason, some masochist (no doubt a
bifocaled, suspender-wearing Davidsonian)
invented what has come to be known as
a“summer job.” Every year I try to escape to

Canada (or some
country equally
as nondescript),
so I can avoid the
end of the year,
lazy college stu-
dent draft. But
alas, each year I
am roped into
herding swine,
greeting people at
star trek conven-
tions and manning the Norwegian literature

Ali Fitzgerald ‘04

- aisle at “Barnes and Noble”.

In this same vein, I think that you can tell
a lot about a person, just based on their
summer plans (or in my case, lack thereof).
Take for instance that uber-perky girl who
wears smiley-face ponytail holders and
screeches in ecstasy as she frolics down the
hall at five in the morning singing along to
the “Von Trapp Family favorites”. It’s a
pretty safe bet that she is going to be the
shuffleboard coordinator at the local retire-
ment home. And what about those ingratiat-
ing kids in your class, who snort when they
laugh, ask for the paper to be moved up, and
“who make the curve move down. Well, one
possibility is anew “Extreme” summer prepa-
ration course for the MCATS. This course

Offended by Ludacris?
n Here’s why he’s not SO bad

Launch Music

women and drugs).

Even the most popular “white” group of all
time, The Beatles, put out lots of songs about
drugs and sex (Norwegian Wood, Glass On-
ion, Strawberry Fields, etc).

True, there is a difference between The
Beatles and Ludacris. Ludacris doesn’t choose
to use (or doesn’t have the ability to create)
metaphors and symbols to express his mean-
ing.

If he wants to talk about guns, drugs or sex,
he uses very explicit language to get his
meaning across.

But you have to keep in mind that 90% of
the time he is joking. Ludacris is about as
close as one can get to a rap comedian. His
videos make that very clear (just look at the
man’s hair and facial expressions).

Anyways, I’ll be at the concert for the
experience alone. I know Ludacris has per-
formed in front of this many white people
before, just not this many rich white people.
It’ll be interesting to see how both he and the
crowd react to each other.

To all of you that are offended, I urge you
to go anyways and support the show so we
can keep bringing big-name acts to campus.

I promise that you’ll get a good laugh.
After all, who doesn’t want to hear him tell-
ing the crowd to “Stay the !#$#% out my
business, my biznass?”

miss this place

consists dually of studying for the MCATS,
as well as participating in monster trucking
and skydiving. (Note: due to allergy related
problems, the monster trucking and skydiv-
ing portion has been replaced by needlepoint
and accordion playing).

Then there are those wonderful poli-sci
students who are involved in everything, from
“Free Tibet” to “Free beer”. I think we can all
guess their probable summer vocation: an
internship to the jr. assistant of the vice-
secretary for the hydro-engineer for a mem-
ber of the house (A.K.A.-giving Strom
Thurmond a sponge bath). ,

There are also those really ambitious stu-
dents, who globetrot all over during the sum-
mer, in the hopes of widening their little
horizons. The sky’s the limit when imagin- .
ing the crazy international jobs that some of
our more random Davidson peers are pursu-
ing. Someone is probably observing every-
thing from the effects of the “Jerry Springer
Show” on modern Nepalese mountain people
to the unknown religion of worshipping Ice-
landic water ferrets. Ahhh sweet Davidson,
how I will miss thee.

Some of the harder to predict summer jobs
are those involving the “Siamese-couples”
(called thus because of their attachment to the
hip ofa significant other). Who knows where
the summer will take these pairs of amorous
individuals? Somehow I imagine some of
them making a road trip to New Mexico and

- giving impromptu street haikus on “How to

love.”

Or moving to a shanty in New Guinea with
no heat or electricity, and subsisting solely on
their mutual admiration and respect for one
another (gagging noise).
