Global climate change is a real and danger-
ous threat. Even the Bush administration no
longer denies it. Most of the world also recog-
nizes this reality and has already come up
with plans to
combat global
climate
change. Unfor-
tunately, the
US. emits 25%
of the world’s
greenhouse gas
and without our
involvement,
any effort to re-
duce global
emissions will
likely be a fail-
ure. The Kyoto
protocol, which the U.S. originally agreed to,
calls for a feasible 7% drop in greenhouse gas
emissions by 2010. But Bush pulled out of
negotiation on this promising treaty with a
vague promise about finding other ways to
reduce emissions. Well, after a long delay,

Alex Massengale ‘04

Bush has finally revealed his plan. He
shouldn’t have bothered. ~

At first blush, the Bush plan sounds like
the kind of aggressive and forceful response
we need. He promises an 18% reduction in
“emissions intensity” in the next 10 years.
This sounds great until you realize what the
term “emissions intensity” means.

It is a measure of emissions versus GDP
growth. Over the period Bush’s plan covers,
the GDP is supposed to go up, hence the Bush
plan actually allows for an increase in our
current emissions! Not only that, but accord-

ing to Energy Department estimates, the in-:

creases would be virtually identical to what
would happen if we did nothing! Under his
plan, our emissions would be 50% above
Kyoto levels by 2020, according to the Sierra
Club.

Bush’s plan seems geared more towards
not ruffling the feathers of campaign con-
tributors than doing any good. His “forceful
plan” is entirely voluntary. Companies can
chose whether or not to enter his program!

’ The Bush plan relies on weak incentives and

Bush’s “Axis of Evil’ list

was right on

Too often, the State of the Union Address
is a laundry, list of promises and policy pro-
posals, sprinkled with platitudes and good
intentions. It is usually of little substance or
use. President Bush’s speech this year did not

deviate much from the norm, but it included
a memorable
and necessary
reference to
rogue states and
the threat they
pose. The Presi-
dent appropri-
ately labeled
Iran, Iraq and
North Korea as
an “axis of
evil.”

Such a state-
ment was ap-
propriate and

. necessary be-
cause it captures, in a clear and simple way,
the true nature of these dangerous regimes. In
a sweeping manner, it shows America’s re-
solve to see the end of regimes that would
dare to hold the U.S. and the world hostage.
Long overdue, President Bush’s statement
marks a clean, and much welcomed, break
from the confused and naive policies of the
past. It commits the U.S. to action, and as-
signs the “axis of evil’ to ultimate defeat for
reasons that have been obvious, in some of
these regimes, for decades.

No longer will the United States attempt to
negotiate with the mad regime that sits in
power in P’ yongyang; aregime that this week
celebrated the 60" birthday of its “dear leader,”
Kim Jong Il, with a multimillion-dollar ex-
travaganza while millions of North Koreans
starved in a continuing. famine. Instead of
building power plants for a regime that has

Travis Lee ‘04

violated International Atomic Energy Agency

(IAEA) policies multiple times, and which
launched a multi-stage missile over Japan in
1998 when it did not get its way, the Bush
administration has shown it will take a more
realistic, hard-line approach and will demand
nothing short of “regime change.”

The “Sunshine Policy” of South Korea’s
Kim Dae Jung has been a noble attempt to end
the 50-year standoff, but it has proved to be a
failure and does not take into account the
gross mismanagement of Kim Jong II’s
Stalinist regime. The end of this regime should

target

be the U.S. and South Korea’s only demand
now— however that may be brought about.

Iraq, too, has been rightfully targeted as an
up-and-coming deposed regime. This peren-
nial security threat will finally be dealt with in
a manner that will end the danger it has posed
for the last decade. If President Bush’s state-
ments are made reality, then Saddam Hussein
and his cadre of maniacs will have spent their
last billion dollars on developing weapons of
mass destruction. Only massive and over-
whelming force can remove them from power,
and finish what was begun in 1991. As is the
case with North Korea, nothing short of the
end of Saddam’s regime will constitute vic-
tory.

The last of these countries, Iran, is a wild
card. Developments in Iran over the last de-
cade have swept “reformers” into positions
of power in the executive and legislative
branches of government. Certainly, the bulk
of the real power over the armed forces and
national laws still lay in the hands of Iran’s
conservative establishment and Ayatollah Ali
Khamenei, but the reform-minded adminis-
tration of President Muhammad Khatami has

recently made overtures toward re-establish- -

ing a relationship with the U.S. for the first
time since 1979. However, Iran’s possession
of medium-range missiles, its pursuit of Rus-
sian nuclear warhead knowledge, its possible
link to recent arms shipments to Palestinian
terrorists and its less-than-helpful meddling
in Afghanistan may prove more damning
than recent reforms have proved helpful.

To assist the reform-minded elements
within the Iranian society, America must
resist using overt force, but the President’s
rough rhetoric was no less appropriate— and
the end of rabid pro-terrorist Islamic funda-
mentalism is no less necessary.

The label of an “axis of evil” could not have
applied more justly or any better to any other
regimes. To be sure, there are other govern-
ments in the world that wish to acquire weap-
ons of mass destruction and to use them, but
these three constitute the most glaring threat
to America and need the most immediate
attention. For Iran, this will mean covert
military action and close cooperation with
reformers, but for North Korea and Iraq, this.
can only mean overt and coercive action—
possibly even war. Regardless of the means,
the goal is simple: an end to the governments
that threaten U.S. and global security.

exhortations rather than actual reduction goals
and limits for emissions. Allowing polluters

to police themselves and set their own emis-

sions limits makes about as much sense as
eliminating the police department and ex-
pecting a reduction in crime. Coupled with
Bush’ systematic weakening of the Clean Air
Act and other regulations pertaining to power
plants and other big polluters, we are left with
a far weaker regulatory framework for reduc-
ing emissions than we presently have. The
consequences are‘entirely predictable.

The only way to ever reduce pollution is
through forceful emissions limits with penal-
ties fornon-compliance. Emissions standards
work. The average new car today puts out 1/
100th of the emission it did in 1970. Five of
the EPA’s six indicators of air pollution lev-
els have also gone down during this period.
This can’t be chalked up to market forces.
Bush tries to scare people from supporting
environmental regulations with bogus pro-
jections of five million lost jobs and eco-
nomic devastation. This is patently false. In
the last 30 years the U.S. economy has grown

; iE 0, 2

vironment not safe in Bush administration’s hands

at a tremendous rate while our air and water
quality have actually improved. The same
trend is repeated worldwide. Bush is using
the same discredited scare tactics that big
business has always used to oppose any regu-
lation.

International condemnation of Bush’s
“plan” has been universal. Belgium’s Minis-
ter of Energy said recently, “It’s a bit like
saying: Wealth is for us today in 2002 and we
will leave the problems for our children...It’s
a policy I don’t feel is very moral”.

He’s right. Bush’s plan is fundamentally
immoral. All it does is pass the problem on to
the next administration at the expense of
future generations. Eventually we will have
to confront this problem and the longer we
wait, the more forceful and determined our
response will have to be. Global climate
change isa lot greater threat to world prosper-
ity and our way of life than terrorism. It’s time
for Bush to recognize that and start to show
leadership on one of the most important is-
sues of the 21st century.

