_ Ten Davidson students have been selected for induction into Psi Chi, the National
- Honor Society in Psychology. Founded in 1929, Psi Chi’s goal is to stimulate and
maintain excellence in psychology scholarship. Membership is awarded to men and
women who are making the study of psychology one of their major interests, and meet
the academic requirements. Psi Chi is affiliated with the American Psychological
Society and the American Psychological Association, and has over 975 US chapters.

Davipson’s 2002 INDUCTEEs:
Blake C. Bergeron ‘03
Laura Corinne Bondesen ‘03
Lauren Amanda Dennis ‘03
Alissa Leona Greenberg ‘04
Jennifer LeAnn Greene ‘04
McKensy Taylor Gruelle ‘04
_ Soren Morgan Johnson ‘03

Anna H. Mallett ‘04
Susan Grams Robison ‘04
Lucas Edward Spivey ‘03

SG & T

LAKE NORMAN

Dear Student Body,

As part of a better way to help serve the students and make sure that your concerns
and ideas are heard we the SGA have decided to change the way this space in the
Davidsonian is used each week. I think that printing the weekly agenda helped get SGA’s
name in the paper weekly and at least let those interested students know what was going
on in student government. However some items on the agenda may not mean anything
to students beside those few serving on SGA. In order to still accomplish our goal of
serving the students, the SGA will be explaining the agenda each week so if a topic of
interest or concern comes up then you’ll know when it is being discussed in the SGA.

This week, along with our regular business, we’ ll be discussing two important aspects
of Davidson community life. The community red bikes will be re-released in the coming
months. The SGA will try and hammer out a policy for the red bikes in hopes of avoiding
what happened last time they were released to the student body, namely getting destroyed.
The second issue for discussion will be Academic Policies at Davidson College. Several |
students have been concerned about grading procedures, attendance policy, and credit |
given to lab classes. The SGA will discuss any possible action we can or should take to |
relieve students’ concerns. |

Please feel free to attend tomorrow night at 9 o’ clock in the Sprinkle Room of the Union. |
If you are not able to attend but have some comments or concerns about the issues being
discussed please feel free to contact one of your SGA senators or myself before then. |
|

Sincerely,

Grady Patterson
SGA President

Receive A 5%
| Discount With A
Valid Davidson
College ID

| Offer applies to
18705 STATESVILLE RD. faculty, staff and
CORNELIUS, NC pei 90, students!
PHONE - (704) 892-6590 eo
FAX - (704) 892-6596 — vom ON FOREIGN &
siciits NC 115 AMERICAN
7:30-5:30 M-F_ —_8:00-12:00 Sat. Bxt2s [5 ped
) Cornelius . F 3 Qua lity Repair
Let’s Go ’Cats! »| 28° By People

Samccsrane Firestone DAYTON > ouxzor

Who Care!!!
