"Next up: Cornel West |

Thursday, Duke Family Performance Hall, 7 p.m.

Lecture is just what our community needs

I was delighted when I heard that our school had found a way
to bring Dr. Cornel West to Davidson. [have been to see Dr. West
twice and have enjoyedhis talks both times. West speaks like you
wished your preacher, or maybe your professors, could. Heis pas-
sionate, intelligent and funny. A moment that Irememberclearly
was when Dr. West called upon the audience to start a dialogue
about race in America.

At that moment, an infant cried out in the audience, and West
responded “Exactly!”’ without missing a beat. Ileft both speeches
feeling satisfied, but at the same time my personal views about
race, sexual orientation, class issues and the political system were
all challenged.

Dr. West is not perfect. He is ahuman male, prone to make the
mistakes that most do. But West takes a lot of criticism that I feel
is unjustified. President Larry Summers of Harvard lashed out at
West primarily because he wanted help at cracking down on grade
inflation, not because West has failed as a scholar.

West’s blend of skepticism of corporate power, critique of
racial prejudice and emphasis on the individual attitudes that al-
low misunderstandings to continue inject a unique perspective
into the public sphere. Race Matters, West’s 1993 book, is still
considered an excellent work about race and its effects on

America. West continues to discuss the importance of Christian-
ity in American life, particularly with regards to its inability to act
as a to counterweight to materialism and market values.

West has also shown himself to be an excellent public debater
in forums about race and politics. Although West’s “spoken
word” album may not be the pinnacle of scholarly research, con-
sidering the importance of hip-hop to African-American life and
American culture as a whole, it should not serve to discredit him.

Dr. West’s main strength, however, comes from his ability to
strike up aconversation and force are-evaluation of race and other
perceptions of “the other.” Davidson has many controversial

_ speakers, but few with the star power or abilities of West. Ques- .

tions about race continue to be crucial to arguments about Ameri-
can politics, be it the death penalty, affirmative action, public
education or balancing personal liberties with national security.

Here at Davidson, the BSC and some others have attempted to
start a discussion about race and culture and its role in social re-
lations at the College. Dr. West’s speech may motivate all stu-
dents, white and otherwise, to start talking openly and honestly to
each other about their feelings onrace. It’s achance to break down
barriers and find common ground. I believe this is just what the
Davidson community needs.

Approach the talk with dope of skepticism

By aren. Ashooh Guest Columnist

It is clear that Dr. Cornel West is an accomplished A
is also clear that as a Harvard professor, he had quite a disagree-
ment with the school’s president. Other than that, I never knew
much about this man.

I have learned a little about Dr. West after some very simple
research. ‘I have some preliminary opinions, but I do not want to
craft them too rigidly before I hear him speak this Thursday
evening.

Dr. West graduated in three years from Harvard, proving him-
self uniquely talented. And he has been a highly controversial
figure. Supporters have called him “America’s leading black
intellectual.” Critics have gone so far to say that he “deploys his
vocabulary as much as a 13-year-old girl deploys Kleenex in her
training bra: to obscure the embarrassing fact that there’s not
much there.”

Dr. West is primarily a commentator on racial justice in
America, but he has tackled more prickly issues such as the rift
between blacks and Jews. He has also made civil disobedience
a tool in his arsenal of protest against racial injustice, and he has
been arrested for his beliefs. He has built up areputation for him-
self as a distinguished academic, winning awards such as the
James Madison Medal, the highest prize awarded to a Princeton
University graduate alumnus. Clearly, whatever you think of his
views, Dr. West is a respectable and formidable voice on the
national political scene.

a

“Ft

Dr. West left Harvard University last year over a flap with
University president Lawrence Summers. One of the sticking
points was Dr. West’s recent recording of the album Sketches of
My Culture. According to the promotional Web site for the al-
bum, it seeks to portray a “poignant yet inviting depiction of the

African American experience.” I took the liberty of listening to.

some selections from Dr. West’s album, and I found some of the
lyrics to be neither poignant nor inviting, and I can see why Presi-
dent Summers was so concerned.

A song entitled “Stolen King” begins with “From the heights
of rich African humanity, to the depth of sick American barbar-
ity.” Itcontinues with the claim that “No other people [American
blacks] in the modern world have had such unprecedented levels
of unregulated violence against them.”

Deplorable as the plight of American blacks has been, does it

measure up to the crimes of Hitler? Or Pol Pot? Or Stalin? Or
apartheid? And even if it does, isn’t all injustice unacceptable?
Why spend time trying to decide whose plight has been the worst,
or whose victimhood is most lamentable?
’ It seems to me that “racial commentary” such as the above
lyrics is rather extreme. I must confess that I am skeptical going
into Dr. West’s speech, though I am anxious to hear his own
words. I encourage everyone to listen and question. I can only
hope that Dr. West offers more poignant and inviting commen-
tary than I found in his album.

Bush needs to rethink sex ed. policies

The Bush administration has publicly stated its opposition to
sexual education programs that teach contraception and discuss
anything other than abstinence. More recently, the administration
has used more covert techniques to promote its agenda, such as
making the Center for Disease Control remove a fact sheet from
its Web site touting the effectiveness of condoms in preventing
STDs.

The President has appointed a number of staunch abstinence-
only officials to posts'in organizations such as the presidential
panel on AIDS.

Joe S. Mcllhaney, a member of that panel, was asked if he
believes whether people who:aren’t monogamous should use
condoms. His response: “That’s very simplistic, and has been
proven, so far, not to be very effective.”

Give me a break. Condoms, when used effectively, have been
proven in numerous studies to be well over 90% effective at pre-
venting both STDs and unwanted pregnancies. When condoms’
effectiveness drops, it is almost always due to either improper
usage or an instance of a regular condom user not using protec-
tion on a single occasion.

The facts show that when used properly and consistently,
condoms work. Shouldn’t our sexual education programs try to
teach people to use condoms effectively and make them readily
accessible?

At least some people are bright enough to realize the obvious
truths, and provide funding for sexual education that promotes

condoms as an effective means of preventing AIDS. Bill Gates

What's the
Big idea?

with David Crow

recently gave $100 million to fight AIDS in India. This donation
will help increase sexual education and distribute condoms to
millions of Indian citizens.

In response to this gift, Andrew Natsios, an administrator for
the US Agency for International Development, has praised the
effectiveness of sexual education and condoms in India by say-
ing, “Annual condoms distribution and social marketing activi-
ties probably avert a half-million [AIDS] infections every year.”

A half-million people helped every year because of simply
teaching people how touse a silly little piece of rubber. How easy
could it be?

How sad is it that India, a Third World country, is ‘eutiaing
moré help to its citizens than the United States? When will our
president wake up from his mid-afternoon slumber and see that
teaching abstinence only will never solve the problems of un-
wanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases? Let us
hope that it is soon.

Before I begin this week’s diatribe, I would just like to
make it clear that I am a huge Dave Matthews fan. Ihave -
most of his albums, and I freely admit that a lot of his songs
sound the same. But, damn, that’s one good song he keeps
recording.

That said, I can’t help but find i it a little ridiculous that
we have to take a big photo to show Dave how much want
him to come play for us. I’m sorry, but I thought we of-
fered him money tocomehere. My editorinformed me that
the going rate for Dave is around $150,000. Granted, he
got that information from Internet message boards, but
we’ ll use that figure for the sake of argument.

So, 150 grand and we still have to let big Dave know how
much we care. At what point did shallowness and materi-
alism disappear from society? When did a bucket load of
cash stop being equated with love? Let’s face it—nothing
says lovin’ like $150,000. Hell, I feel the love when a
buddy lets me borrow a five spot.

And have we even stopped to consider how else the
school could spend that money?

_ When I first considered writing about this Dave thing, I
balked. “I’m a Dave fan,” I thought. “The only way the
money could be more wisely spent is if the school paid for
a visit from this year’s Playmates.” ‘We could spend half
the money on booze and the other half on Playmate plane
tickets—what a party.

But then I started thinking of other things we could use
the money for—apart from beer.and girls.

AcademicScholarships: Iknow what you’ re thinking.
How can the Senior Source advocate anything that in-
volves the word academic? Well I am, so deal with it.
Because if Davidson is really committed to becoming the
premiere liberal arts college in America, we have to stop
spending money on frivolous concerts and use it to attract
the brightest minds in the land. Then we can finally weed
out the lazy kids who don’t do much except write mindless
drivel for the school paper.

LeBron James: Some of you may not have heard this
name before, but someday you will. He’s expected to be
the top pick in the NBA draft this summer coming right out
of high school. Instead of letting those professional vam-
pires get their teeth in him, I propose that we offer LeBron

_ascholarship to play basketball here. Included in this offer

is a brand new Escalade and a $50,000 per month stipend.
This should effectively cover his “meal” plan.

Scientific study on Mickelson Theory: If we aren’t
willing to bend the rules and pay LeBron to suit up for bas-
ketball, can we at least use the money for something aca-
demic (there’s that word again)? I don’t really know how
we could effectively set up an experiment to test the
Mickelson Theory, but I’m sure it can be done. This could
be the type of science that garners national attention.

Brick: Because Lord knows if Davidson needs more of
anything, it is more brick. I remain firmly convinced that .
in the year 2050, when all the trees are wiped outby plague,
the administration will commission some artist to put a
bunch of brick trees on the lawn. I just hope I’m alive to
see it.

So there you go Dave. Take our money or leave it. We
obviously have more important things to spend it on any-
way. Andif$150,000isn’tenough love thentake your one
song and shove...well I’m sure you know the rest.

@. “C’mon, it’s me or more bricks.”

