Body and Soul
A Column by the Health Advisors

The Health Advisors—so, who are. we? No,
we won’t make you trade the Ben and Jerry’s for
an apple. And no, we won’t put out your ciga-

_rette or force you to floss (though you shouldn’t
neglect your gums). We are trained to educate
the campus about health issues, assist in aware-
ness weeks, and pretty much just be available if
you have a health problem and want some guid-
ance. If we can’t help you directly, then we will
refer you to someone who can — we work
closely with Georgia Ringle and the Student
Health and Counseling Center. This year the 4
happenin’ Health Advisors are as follows....

STEVEN CLUGSTON
“G’ day. I’m Steve Clugston, currently a Jun-

Clockwise from top: Felicia Browne, Steven
Clugston, Jennifer Greene, Lauren Stutts

Mayer, from page 5

ior attempting to complete a double major in Psychology and French. I have no idea where
it’s gonna take me, but no worries! I am originally Australian, however, I have spent my life
growing up in New Delhi (India) and Geneva (Switzerland) as well as traveling the world. I
feel that my cultural experience is probably my greatest asset when it comes to talking to
people. This will be my first year as a health advisor and a first responder; thus, I am thrilled
to be part of these fantastic groups whose intentions focus on the well being of students. My

interest tends to focus on relationship problems (family, friends and romantic) and dealing .

with difficult situations in general, however, I love talking about sex, drugs and alcohol as
well. So, whether or not you are struggling with a personal issue, come strike up a convo about
any of the aforementioned.

JENNIFER GREENE

“Hmmm... what totell you about myself? I’m a Junior Psychology Major who has already
been bitten by her rat in Neuroscience. I’m a Bonner Scholar, and I teach piano to children
in the community. This is my second year as an RA, living on Fourth Belk this time. (Yea
Fourth Belkers!) This is my first year as a health advisor, and my strength lies in women’s
health, particularly yearly physicals, contraceptive options, emergency medications, etc. I
also can field questions in other areas, though, so if you want to ask something, please feel
free. I live in Belk 422 and my phone number is in the directory. I look forward to
meeting you .. . take care, and have a wonderful year!”’

LAuREN STUTTS

“Hi! I’m a sophomore, majoring in Psychology. I love kids, and I want to be a child/
adolescent psychologist. The health topics I am the most familiar with are stress, disabilities,
serious illnesses, and eating disorders. I am happy to help with any problem, though, so just
email me or flag me down as I am rolling around campus.in my wheelchair (watch your toes).”

FELICIA BROWNE

“Hey Peeps! Iam a sophomore Psychology major with a Medical Humanities concentra- ~

tion. My primary goal for this year is to open the discussion of risky behaviors, because the
reluctance to discuss these behaviors and their consequences contributes to their prevalence.
Issues of great interest to me are substance abuse, stress, and sexuality, although I am familiar
_ with most health issues. However, this does not mean that I know everything, which is why
I want to emphasize the important role the Davidson community plays in our jobs. If you ever

have any suggestions about health-related topics, ways to improve our programs, etc., please

inform one of us because we always looking for ways to be more effective.”

Precision Hair Cutting
Color, Highlights, Perms
| Spa Manicures and Pedicures
704-987-1377
108 S. Main Street Suite E
Located near the Post Office
Walk-ins are welcome

Studio

Ha and Nail Design

Stylists: Peter DeLuke, Lisa’ Gabrielli
Suzette Pope, and Lale Ari

Specializing in the latest color techniques and styles

as well as in facial waxing. —

Licensed Nail Technician: Adele Carroll 2
Bring a friend and get 50% off:Nail Service

LIVING ___ Weovssony,Serrenmen 11,2002 _

’ band.

In addition, many of Mayer’s songs could
have been improyed with more frequent,
longer jam sections, but it seemed as though
the band was intent on playing most of the _
songs straight through without any signifi-
cant solo breaks.

‘All in all, each of the three groups offered
a very impressive performance, and when
such talented groups tour together it is never
disappointing. John Mayer’s performance
showed that he is still constantly dreaming up
new ideas for songs and ways to play them,
and it is certain that although he has gained
popularity relatively quickly, he will not be
going away any time soon.

songwriter and guitarist as Mayer is, his per-
formance left something to be desired. One
couldn’t help feeling that Mayer, who wrote
most of his songs while he was performing
solo on acoustic guitar, was not at his best in
this setting. -

While he was clearly the best musician
onstage, his playing was too often drowned
out by the other instrumentalists because of
the heavy electric sound that the band tried to
achieve. In contrast to Guster, whose mem-
bers had been playing together for along time
and had a very tight sound, Mayer’s group
sounded more like the collection of hired
studio musicians that they were than a true

Brian Rosenworcel of Guster creates a unusual timbre by playing his
drums and cymbals with his bare hands.

hoto by Matt Whited
Opening band Guster drew many devoted fans to Monday’s concert.

