* Tae Davmsonran

AVERAGE GPAs AMONG

PATTERSON COURT HOUSES
Eating Houses
CoHo — 54 Members, 3.28 GPA
Connor — 90 Members, 3.16 GPA
Turner — 52 Members, 3.15 GPA
Rusk — 162 Members, 3.08 GPA
Warner — 112 Members, 2.47 GPA

Fraternities

Phi Delta Theta — 46 Members, 3.01 GPA
Phi Gamma Delta — 14 Members, 2.88 GPA

Pi Kappa Alpha — 35 Members, 2.79 GPA
Kappa Alpha Order — 52 Members, 2.73 GPA

Kappa Sigma — 50 Members, 2.70 GPA
Sigma Phi Epsilon — 46 Members, 2.55 GPA
Sigma Alpha Epsilon — 17 Members, 2.37 GPA

Patterson Court Women, Overall: 445 Members, 2.96 GPA
All Female Undergraduates: 923 Women, 2.88 GPA
Patterson Court Men, Overall: 285 Members, 2.78 GPA
All Male Undergraduates: 889 Men, 2.78 GPA
All Patterson Court Members: 730 Members, 2.89 GPA
All Davidson Students: 1812 Undergraduates, 2.83 GPA

All numbers are pre-Self Selection 2002

Distinguished visiting professors bring unique
gifts to campus for spring semester 2002

COLLEGE COMMUNICATIONS
Press Release

Many Davidson Students this spring se-
mester have the opportunity to take classes
from three distinguished visiting professors
atthe college. Novelist Josephine Humphreys,
philosopher David Armstrong, and diplomat
Anne de Lattre are in residence at Davidson
this spring to provide a perspective on the
world that is not regularly available. Each
professor will also make a public presenta-
tion at some point during the semester. Here’s
an introduction to these special guests:

David M. Armstrong

David M. Armstrong, an Australian phi-
losopher who has been deeply influential in
metaphysics, epistemology, and the philoso-
phy of mind, serves as the Kemp Distin-
guished Visiting Professor at Davidson this
semester.

Armstrong is teaching a seminar on “The
Mind-Body Problem,” a subject that has oc-
cupied his thoughts and scholarly attention
throughout his life. Armstrong believes that
the mind is a physical bodily function, rather
than existing as a separate entity that others
describe as the human soul. .

Armstrong’s book Mind-Body Problem:
an Opinionated Introduction (1999: Westview
Press), serves as the textbook for his seminar.
The book reviews the history of the great
philosophical debate on the subject, begin-
ning with the thoughts of Descartes and mov-
ing through thinkers like Hume and Huxley.

Several other prominent philosophers will
visit Davidson to give guest lectures to the
group during the course, and that prospect

delights Armstrong. He said, “Heil and the
other guests doesn’t agree with me on a lot of
things, and will have a go at me during the
course. That, along with the opinions of the
students, should make for quite a lively and
exciting semester!”

Armstrong will pursue several other projects
during his time at Davidson. He is currently
writing a book about truth, and will deliver a
college-wide lecture entitled “The Scope and
Limits of Human Knowledge,” which echoes
the title of Bertrand Russell’s book Human
Knowledge: Its Scope and Limits.

Armstrong, whose wife, Jenny, has accom-

panied him to Davidson, received his Ph.D. —

from the University of Melbourne and was
Challis Professor of Philosophy at the Uni-
versity of Sydney from 1964-1991; he is now
as Emeritus Professor of Philosophy there.
He was named an Officer of the Order of
Australia in 1993 for services to philosophy.

Anne de Lattre

Anne de Lattre, a specialist in European. *

and African affairs, returns to familiar sur-
roundings to serve as James K. Batten Profes-
sor of Public Policy this semester. A French
citizen, she taught at Davidson in both 1986.
and 1988. She will teach courses this semes-
ter in “European Integration” and “France
and the United States.”

A native of Paris who did graduate studies
in international relations at Johns Hopkins
University, de Lattre has worked on African
aid and development issues for almost 40
years. In 1962 she began her career as an
economist with the Organization for Eco-
nomic Cooperation and Development
(OECD).

Her investigation of economic develop-
ment programs with that agency led to forma-
tion of a cooperative venture between nine
sub-Saharan countries called Club du Sahel.
From 1976-1988 de Lattre served as its direc-
tor, helping donors guide aid funds to the
Sahel countries and strengthening food secu-
rity programs.

During the past ten years she has served as
vice president of a U.N. conference on world-
wide desertification, and chair of a French
national committee charged with helping re-
form research performed for the benefit of
developing countries.

De Lattre, who has written numerous ar-
ticles and papers on African development in
journals and magazines, concedes to many
economic and political problems in Africa,
but anticipates a better future for the conti-
nent. She said, “The modernization of Africa
will take along time, but I’ ve seen big changes
in my work there. When countries have been
able to avoid war, they’ ve made progress.”

Josephine Humphreys
South Carolina novelist Josephine
Humphreys is at Davidson this spring as the
McGee Professor of Writing. This is her first-
ever semester-long collegiate teaching as-
signment, though she has conducted numer-
ous short residencies and writer’s workshops.

“That’s actually why I accepted the ap-

_ pointment,” noted this author of four books:

Dreams of Sleep (1984), Rich in Love (1987),

' The Fireman’s Fair (1992), and Nowhere

Else on Earth (2000). “It’s good for a writer
to get out of the comfort zone and change the
trappings of everyday life.”

Her familiarity with Davidson also made

the appointment attractive. Humphreys has
been on campus twice before to give read-
ings. In connection with a 1989 visit here, she
also served as judge for the Vereen Bell
student writing award. The student she se-
lected as winner that year is her now-famous
fellow novelist Sheri Reynolds!

“T’ ve always enjoyed being in the presence
of young people,” Humphreys said. “I’m
very much looking forward to my classroom
time with Davidson students.”

In addition to teaching, Humphreys said
shé and her husband, Tom Hutcheson, are
looking forward to having time throughout
the semester for reading, attending cultural
events, and walking strolling through the
campus and town. She can also probably be
frequently found in Little Library.

Her first novel, Dreams of Sleep, was the
winner of the 1985 Ernest Hemingway Award
for a writer’s first novel. In 1992, Rich in
Love was made into a motion picture starring
Albert Finney and Jill Clayburgh. Her latest
novel, Nowhere Else on Earth, concerns a
swamp-bound settlement of Lumbee Indians

‘who face aggression and enslavement from a

Confederate “Home Guard” during the Civil
War.

Humphreys is a graduate of Duke Univer-
sity, and earned her master’s degree from
Yale University. She has received a
Guggenheim Fellowship, the Lyridhurst Prize,
and an Award in Literature from the Ameri-
can Academy of Arts and Letters. Nowhere
Else on Earth, was the fiction winner of the
Southern Book Award last year.

Humphreys will give a reading from her
novels on Thursday evening, January 31, at
7:30 p.m. in the Smith 900 Room.
