From The Sidelines

There’s no place like home

By Caro ine HAUSER

Sports Editor

What a difference a month makes.
Without the crushing weight of exams,
term papers and vacation planning,
Davidson students can actually enjoy
the lighter side of college.

At last Wednesday’s men’s basketball
game against VMI, the student section
was standing room only. Costumed in a
motley assortment of bookstore mer-
chandise and vintage warm-ups, hun-
dreds of students cheered with the cheer-
leaders, clapped with the pep band and
mocked the ill-attired Keydets coach,
Bart Bellairs.

Kevin Epps ’02 brought his friend, a
huge cardboard cut-out of the Red Baron,
to wave during opponents’ free throw
attempts. A group of senior girls showed
up in shades of Gap and Abercrombie
red. The faithful “Pines People For
Davidson College” braved the cold to
cheer for the young’uns. But the men on
the court topped them all.

Play in the first half swung wildly.
between lightning fast passes and shots
so slow that Martin Ides and Chris
Pearson plucked them out of the air as if
they were gathering late-summer apples.

Both Ides and Pearson recorded
double-doubles (18 points, 11 rebounds
for Ides; 12 points and 14 rebounds for
Pearson). Their performances, along
with Peter Anderer’s 19 points, moved
the Wildcats into a tie for first place in
the North Division.

On Saturday, the rain came, washing
away the beer, shaving cream and any
doubts of Davidson’s potential. The team
redeemed last year’s loss to East Ten-

nessee State with a 73-66 win over the
defending North Division champion Buc-
caneers.

Once again, the crowd was out in force.
Rewards for those loyal fans wrapped in
scarves and ski coats included t-shirts,
Ben & Jerry’s ice cream, and a special
Chris Pearson dunk.

Sophomore forward Jouni Eho noticed
a change in courtside climate.

“Tt’s great,” he said. “Compared to last -

year, people are more excited—you can
hear the students going crazy more.

“Our goal this season was to create a
home court advantage, and that’s hap-
pening.”

Student body president Joey Harris, whose
rowdiness at games rivals that of partner-in-
crime Epps and even President Bobby Vagt,
is thrilled with the recent surge of school
spirit.

“T think that the success of the basket-
ball team.is getting people excited about
coming out to the games.

“They, like all of the athletes at this-

school, work their tails off and put so
much into what they do out there, that
the least we can do is come out and
support them.”

The Wildcats’ victory and UNC-
Greensboro’s 87-77 loss to Western
Carolina left Davidson alone at the top
of the division.

Even more surprising, it was
Davidson’s 12th straight home victory
dating back to last season. It’s the 13th
longest streak in the nation.

And as a few thousand fans can tell
you a couple times a week, that’s good
stuff.

Davidson (12-5, 5-1)
vs. Western Carolina (10-8, 4-3)
Saturday, 7 p.m., Belk Arena
The Scoop: Western will be seeking re-
Vvenge for a 74-71 home loss to Davidson
three weeks ago. A win Saturday would likely

Division, while a loss would open the door to
UNC Greensboro and Western. :
Western head coach Steve Shurina was
assistant at Davidson for seven seasons
‘om 1991-98.
What to Expect: Catamounts forward
evin Martin is among the conference’s top
corers at 21.7 points per game. Martin, a 6-
5 freshman from Ohio, is a quick, versatile
wingman capable of scoring from just about
anywhere, similar to VMI’s Jason Conley.
He was held to 15 points on 2-of-8 shooting
gainst the Wildcats. The real problem in
Cullowhee was senior forward Cory Largent,
who keyed a late rally and finished with 19
points. Containing these two is the key to
defeating the Catamounts.
Injury Report: Senior forward Emeka
rege is listed as day-to-day with a lower leg
injury suffered at Western Carolina.

Southern Conference Recap
Davidson 74 Western Carolina 71
The Wildcats built a big lead, watched it
disappear, then held on for akey road victory.
With Davidson leading 73-71, Chris Pearson,
ho had a career-high 16 rebounds to go
ong with 12 points and three blocked shots,
natched a’Kevin Martin lay-up out of the air
d came down with the rebound to preserve
e win.

Davidson 63 Chattanooga 61
Similar story: The team built a big early

keep the Wildcats in first place in the North:

lead, then held on to beat an athletic, physical
Mocs team in the last home game before the
start of second semester. The Wildcats hit 11
three-pointers, including four from Peter
Anderer (12 points).

Davidson 73 Furman 70
This one looked over early, as Davidson
built a 27-8 lead 13 minutes into the game.
But mistakes took their toll and the Paladins
stormed back to within 64-61 late in the

- game. Michael Bree (17 points) and Conor

Grace (12 points) delivered in the final min-
utes to seal the win.

Davidson 79 VMI 68
Jason Conley entered the game as the
nation’s leading scorer at 28.4 points per
game. He finished with 36 on this night, but
had to work for all of them.

The Wildcats countered with double
doubles from their two big men, Martin Ides
(18 points, 11 rebounds) and Chris Pearson
(12 points, 14 rebounds).

Davidson 73 ETSU 66

The victories keep on coming, this time
a win over North Division rival ETSU. It was
the Wildcats fifth in a row was made possible
largely by Chris Pearson, who scored a career
high 24 points along with 10 rebounds and
three blocks.

Wayne Bernard had 14 points and five
assists, and Peter Anderer added 11 for. the
Wildcats, who own the 13" longest home win
steak in the nation at 12 games.

The victory put Davidson alone in first
place in the North Division of the SoCon,
thanks to UNC Greensboro’s loss to Western
Carolina.

--Matt Garfield

Chris Keane/Special to The Davidsonian

Nick Booker drives by Dahntay Jones during Duke’s 106-71 win over
Davidson on Jan. 2. A record home crowd of 11,666 braved snowy
weather to fill the lower level of the Charlotte Coliseum.

Alone in first, Wildcats look
to continue winning ways

By Matr GarrFiELD
Managing Editor

The men’s basketball team is rolling through
the first half of its Southern Conference sched-
ule with its sights set on its first champion-
ship in four years.

With each passing victory, that goal
seems more realistic.

Saturday’s 73-66 win over East Tennes-
see State was the Wildcats’ fifth in a row and
seventh in the last eight games. More impor-
tantly, it gave the team sole control of first
place in the North Division. With an overall
record of 12-5, including 5-1 in the confer-
ence heading into tonight’s game at UNCG,
Davidson is positioning itself for a favorable
seed in the conference tournament. The prize
is the automatic NCAA tournament bid that
goes to the winner.

Observers are beginning to take notice.
A season-high Belk Arena crowd of 3,134
spectators attended Saturday’s game against
East Tennessee State. The Ratings Percent-
age Index, which ranks the nation’s 322 Divi-
sion I teams, currently puts Davidson at No.
77, the highest in the conference.

Couple these achievements with stun-
ning victories over North Carolina and Penn-
sylvania, and it’s evident that this is shaping
up to be amemorable season for the Wildcats.
There are plenty of reasons behind the suc-
cess.

It starts with experience. The team’s four
seniors, point guards Michael Bree and Fern
Tonella, center Martin Ides and forward
Emeka Erege, each have shown flashes of

“promise during their careers, but not until this

season have they emerged as consistent, top-
level contributors capable of leading the team
every night. Erege has missed the past four
games with a lower leg injury and is listed as
day-to-day, but his teammates have ad-

equately filled the void up to this point.

Late-game heroics are becoming
Davidson’ s hallmark this season, and the past
five games illustrate why. In each contest, the
team has built a big. lead, squandered it and
then held on using clutch plays in the final
seconds. Every game seems to feature a dif-
ferent hero. On Saturday against the
Bucanneers, it was forward Chris Pearson,
who scored a career high 24 points along with
10 rebounds and three blocks. Every time
ETSU made a run, Pearson delivered key
baskets to preserve the lead. Similar perfor-
mances have come from Bree and guards
Peter Anderer and Wayne Bernard.

The three-point shot has been Davidson’s
most potent offensive weapon. With Ides and
Pearson using their size advantages to attract
double-teams in the paint, shots are opening
up behind the arc for just about everyone.
Anderer has been the deadliest shooter, hit-
ting a team-high 49 trifectas. Bernard and
Bree have done their fair share of damage,
and even Ides has had success, convening 6
of 11 three-point attempts.

Ore year ago today, the Wildcats were 7-
11 and near the bottom of the conference
standings, their lowest point in years. But the
team caught fire late in the season, winning
four of its last five games, including two
tournament wins. The dream ended in the
semifinal round against UNCG, but the mo-
mentum did not.

With an experienced roster, clutch per-
formances and a little bit of luck, the team is
steaming toward the postseason with its eyes
on the NCAA tournament prize.

“We’ ve put ourselves in a position where it
can be a very exciting finish,” said assistant
coach Jason Zimmerman. “But the j journey
has just begun. There’s a lot of basketball in

front of us. Hopefully the most exciting win
is yet to come.”
