A LIBERTAS @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEpnEspbay, May 1, 2002

VOLUME 93, NUMBER 25

Enron purchases College’s
naming rights for $11 mil

“Davidson” no more fol-
lowing bail-out from CEO
of corrupt company

By CoLin EAGAN
Available

In what is perhaps their most monumental
decision ever, the Board of Trustees declared
in an emergency meeting this afternoon that
Davidson College shall be renamed Enron
College. The new title, to be officially in-
stated at the beginning of the next academic
year, comes along with a sorely needed eleven
million dollar contribution from Prescott Q.
Fluntz, new CEO of the Enron corporation.

The colossal decision was made in re-
sponse to the college’s current, grim financial
situation, created by the failure to raise eleven
million dollars for down payment on renova-
tions to Chambers. As President Bobby Vagt
explained, such a decision would not have
been made were the circumstances anything
‘put dire.

“I’m so poor they’ve got my picture on

food stamps,” said Vagt. “It’s bad. I mean
don’t tell any one this, but just yesterday I was
doing head spins on a Cheerios box in front of
Goodwill for a piece of Wonder bread.”

Ever altruistic, Enron offered to chip in to
the college pot—but at a price.

“Weas Americans are in a brave new era of
corporate sponsorship,” stated Fluntz. “We
have Denver’s Pepsi Center, Baltimore’s
Coca-Cola-Burger King-Pizza-Hut-AOL-
Time Warner Stadium, and Dallas’ Dunkin’
Donuts International House of Aiplanes..Why
not Enron College? Enron has taken some
hits in the media, Davidson needs money.
This way, Davidson gets to rebuild their little
classrooms, and our name is associated with
something more positive than corrupt busi-
nessmen cackling as they nuke their employ-
ees’ 401K plans. Everyone. wins!”

_Of course, Vagt did not go to Fluntz with-
out first exhausting a plethora of fund-raising
options. To begin with, the President woke
up early one Saturday a.m. to sell Krispy
Kreme donuts door to door. Next, he went to
Vail Commons and suggested budget cuts,

see Enron, page 2

On, Bats! Wild bats sent Wildcats fleeing from Little and Watts
dorms this Tursday, following an uncannily strategic infestation.

sd

Name Game: Completion of the sign to new “Enron College” marks
just a first step in the name change to become official in 2002-2003

SGA will implement new
Community Beer program

Large, public beer coolers
will replace Red Bikes pro-
gram; fraternities rejoice

By Jimmy SWANSBROUGH
Beer Lover

Inashocking but welcome decision handed
down by the Student Government Associa-
tion and the President’ s Office last week, the
unsuccessful Community Bike program will
be replaced by an inaugural Community Beer
Program.

During a conference after last Thursday’s
pivotal meeting to pass the program, SGA
President Gray Patterson ’03 cited the unre-
strained, consistent destruction of the red
bikes each weekend as cause for the decision.

“The SGA believes that when parties end
each weekend and alcohol becomes unavail-
able, Davidson students must occupy their
superior intellects with something challeng-
ing such as the willful destruction of prop-
erty. With the new Community Beer pro-
gram,” Patterson stated, “students can con-
tinue suckling on the teat of alcoholism straight

Enraged bat colony takes over Little, Watts

Supersonic bat shrieks
drive students fromdorms;
more attacks may follow

By Linpy BALDWIN
_ Insane Recluse

In yet another. example of science gone
horribly awry, an army of super-intelligent
bats staged a takeover of Watts and Little

early Thursday morning. The bats, rumored.

to have been the subjects of various Biology
experiments, seem to be regrouping for fur-
ther assaults. —

At press time, the administration refused to
confirm or deny tactically sensitive informa-

tion, but assured students that they were do-
ing “everything we can” to protect the unoc-
cupied sectors of the campus.

The bats began their attack at 6am, plan-
ning the event so that ROTC would be on the
other side of campus. They swooped into the

‘ fourth floor windows of Little and Watts and

proceeded to drive out the human residents.

Hall counselor Frank Jennings ’03 recalled
the horrific events of Thursday’s bat assault.
“Dude, there were like all these bats, man.
And they were, like, shrieking or something
and it made my head want to explode. It
might have been the hangover but I don’t
think it was, ‘cause John [Fields ‘05] heard it
too and he was totally sober.”

“T believe the bats have developed a sort of

‘super-sonic shriek that is capable of literally

liquefying the human brain in minutes,”
Fields, a biology major, explained.

Inrecent months, the Biology department’ s
Animal Behavior class has been observing a
large colony of bats less than a mile away
from the Davidson campus.

While professors insisted that the class’s
activities have been totally benign, one anony-
mous student suggested otherwise.

“We should have listened to that funda-
mentalist kid who told us to leave this stuff up
to God,” was her only comment. ~

Within hours of the first wave of attacks, a
group of students gathered outside the
President’s office to demand immediate ac-
tion. “We may have to sacrifice a few dorms,

see Bats, page 2

on ‘till morning.”

College President Bobby Vagt appeared
equally pleased with the decision.

“After most of my daily meetings I’m
craving a brewski, and I don’t doubt my
colleagues echo similar sentiments. I feel this
new program holds real promise to succeed in
the Davidson community, and I think we’ll
witness its academic and social merits right
away.”

‘As a joint operation by the SGA, Union
Board, and College Democrats, the Commu-
nity Beer Program will involve the placement
of 37 giant red coolers around the college
campus, beginning next fall. Each cooler will
contain six cases of beer, all of differing
brands. ve

Over half of the community coolers will be
placed up the hill around the academic build-
ings. Five alone will be installed outside of
the Davidson College Presbyterian Church.
Three coolers are dedicated to Little Library,
while seven others will be added during exam
weeks.

The Union Board will take the largest fi-
nancial hit with the establishment of the Com-

see Beer, page 2

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News Pages 1-3
Patterson Court houses wrap up the
year with service projects. Page 2.

Arts and Living Page 4
Complete recap of the Academy
Awards ceremony. Pages 7-8.

Perspectives Pages 5-6
A look back at the Andrea Yates trial
in Houston. Page 8.

Sports Pages 7-8

' Baseball finally gets on track with two
weekend wins over UNC Greensboro.
Page 12.

-

