Staff Editorial

To start, let’s get one thing clear: we’re stressed out. Like
everyone else on this campus, we have ridiculous amounts of
work and we’re not happy about it.

But we’re a little concerned about the acceptable way of deal-
ing with stress around here. We all complain a lot about the
workload and, clearly, that’s not going tochange. It may nothelp
us accomplish anything, but commiserating with each other does
seem to make us feel better.

And now, three studio art students have produced a whole
project devoted to stress. We’ re glad they have. The workload is
everyone’s favorite topic, after all, and we commend them for
sparking constructive discussion aboutit. The artists have invited
the campus community to share their own feelings about stress
by writing or drawing on a mural.

Last time we checked, tuition went
towards qualified professors and top-
notch facilities. Automatic good grades
aren't part of the deal.

What bothers us are the attitudes towards work that we’re
seeing. One writer is angry because he or she is paying $30,000
a year fora bad GPA. Last time we checked, tuition went towards
qualified professors and top-notch facilities. Automatic good
grades aren’ t part of the deal. To suggest that because we pay high
tuition we are entitled to high grades is the worst form of elitism.

When it comes down to it, why are we so bitter about the work
Davidson expects from us? Yes, we spend an inordinate amount
of time in the library, and December and May are particularly
painful months. But every single one of us chose this school be-
cause of, or in spite-of, its academic challenges. We knew.what
we were getting into, and we expect the Davidson reputation to
facilitate successful careers.

In order to be deserving of that reputation, we have to help
Davidson hold up its end of the bargain. If we want everyone to
think we’ re better prepared than the competition, than we have to
do more work than the competition.

Granted, that probably won’t be much consolation when
you’re fighting people for a library carrel next week. But you’ll
be thanking your “stress” soon enough.

The. Davidsoni
C4 Cc. DA raV 1asonia &n
Editor in Chief
Jessica Mering
Managing Editors
Colin Eagan Matt Garfield
News Editors
Emily Drew Caroline Hauser
Arts & Living Editors
Lindy Baldwin Chris Schmader
Sports Editor
Richard Connolly Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron. Earley-Thiele. Matt Whited
Advertising & Business ‘Managers
Jeff Larrimore ‘Gregg Wallace
_ Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa
Web Editor
Anders Langwerthy
www. Davies edu/davidsonian

pact rg Ne IND
SANTRNS ORTARISE

TAKE YOURSELF OFF
We BAD ie

Take your no smoking

signs somewhere else

Despite RLO’ s claims, there is still ademand for smoking resi-
dence halls, and the outlawing of lawful smoking within one’s

‘ room would amount to a patronizing, unnecessary, paternalistic

policy. To respond to RLOs assertions, as stated in the Nov. 20
issue of the prayer:

a. RLO’s freshman forms do notreflect the true tendencies and
wishes of students. Occasional smokers have absolutely no incen-
tive to list themselves as smokers. RLO made same mistaken
assumptions regarding single-sex “RS
housing — they determined that there
was no demand based solely on re-
sponses to forms which students
filled out the summer before they
even came to Davidson.

b. If RLO will be installing sprin-
kler systems in all halls, is smoking
still a serious safety hazard? Either
way, I would like to know how many fires have been started in
rooms by cigarettes in the last ten years.

c. Generally, RLO policies allow smoking only in private
rooms and not in public places. I doubt carpet replacements like
the $3000 one in West are a regular if even rare occurrence.

Finally, strict, paternalistic anti-smoking policies do nothing
to attract students to the campus. Giving students freedom to do
what they want in their rooms, however, reflects an administra-
tion that respects the students’ abilities to make responsible deci-
sions for themselves.

Roland E. Foss ‘05

from Phi Beta Sigma

On behalf of the Southeasiern Region.of Phi Beta Sigma Fra-
ternity, Inc. and the ladies of our sister organization Zeta Phi Beta
Sorority, Inc., I would like to extend a statement of gratitude to
the entire Davidson College community, its National Pan-Hel-
lenic Council (NPHC) Expansion Committee and The
Davidsonian staff for the opportunity to speak about our brother-
hood. 3

The article published on Nov. 19 provided an interesting his-
tory lesson on Davidson’s NPHC colonization from Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity, Inc.’s attempt in the early 1990's and up to Phi
Beta Sigma’s presentation on offering additional leadership, di-
versity and academic success not only for its members but for the
men and women of Davidson College as a whole, if allowed the
opportunity to colonize on the campus.

Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Inc. was founded on the campus of
Howard University on Jan. 9, 1914 by three honorable black
men. Our motto “Culture for Service & Service for Humanity”
sums up our commitment to service as a way of life to benefit all
humanity. Our three major international programs (Education,
Bigger & Better Business & Social Action) are based on the con-
cept that education, the developmentof minority enterprise, thrift
and the uplifting of social conditions are the key to dispelling
negative stereotypes of persons of Color in a way to unite the
community through inclusion over exclusionary practices.

If there are any men who were unable to attend the meeting on
Nov. 19 and would like to learn more about Phi Beta Sigma,
please feel free to contact me at Charles@south-
easternpbs1914.org or through iotadeltasigma@aol.com. The
Patterson Court Office will also have information on how tocon-
tact myself and/or my organization. Godspeed to the Patterson
Court Council, the National Pan-Hellenic Council Selection
Committee and the interested men of Davidson College on your
search for an organization that will not fail you in benefiting your
community!

Brother Charles A. Amerson

Southeastern Region Director of
Public Relations and Technology
Phi Beta Sigma Fraternity, Incorporated

We welcome
letters to the editors.
We edit for content,

brevity and grammar.
Please e-mail contributions
of less than 250 words to
3 davidsonian@davidson.edu

and now ADOSR’ FILOSA .....
WITH LAURA FILOSA

