2 THE DavipsoniaN

_ WepNEspay, OcrosER 29, 2003

C ieUsS POLICE DLOMER

10/13 Senior Apartments Damage to Property
Crime Solved: Students were identified for damage to porch furniture and referred for
disciplinary action.

10/21 Tomlinson Larceny of Floor Mats
Unknown person(s) did remove floor mats from the entry way into Tomlinson Hall. No
leads on the matt thieves at this time.

10/26 Richardson Larceny of Currency

Unknown person(s) removed currency from dorm rooms located in Richardson Dorm. In
all, there were 8 different rooms that. were burglarized. This incident is still under
investigation.

10/25 Ridge Rd. Provisional DWI
Student did drive 2 motor vehicle while impaired. Student referred for disciplinary action.

10/26 Martin Ct. Use of Marijuana
Known students were identified using marijuana in their apartment. Students have been
referred for disciplinary action.

10/26 Belk Suspicious Person(s) on Campus
3 Identified males were seen in Belk Dorm with no affiliation with the college. Subjects
were identified and removed from campus by campus police.

10/25 Ridge Rd. Unauthorized Use of Golf Cart
Unknown person(s) did use a college golf cart without permission. Perpetrators of this
crime did donuts on campus grounds causing damage to the grass and cart.

10/25 Delberg (Off Campus) Assist Town Police

Campus Police Officers were called to assist Town Police in breaking up a party on Delberg
street. The party comprised of all Davidson College students, who were written state citations
for underage drinking and aiding and abetting.

10/16 Hart

Larceny of Bicycle
Unknown person did remove an unlocked, unregistered silver Mountain bike the front of
Hart apartment. No leads at this time. The bike is valued at $300.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafery.

°

Robbery, from page 1
up. It could have been our watches, our

separate from the system.

Code system, people outside the college are

Walker said, “For people who don’t go to this

First ever Muslim Student
Assocation formed on campus

Organization hopes to clarify misconceptions of Islam

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

Davidson religious life has become more .

diverse this year with the formation of the
college’s first Muslim Student Association
(MSA).

Founded by Mujahid Idlibi ’04, the organiza-
tion seeks to promote unity within the Muslim
community on campus, and between Muslim
and non-Muslim students.

According to Idlibi, the MSA’s primary ob-
jective is to “promote peace, tolerance, and
understanding amongst people of all faiths,
regardless of their religious convictions.”

Clarifying misconceptions about the Islamic
faith and Muslim people is another top priority
of the MSA. - ‘

“{Islam] is not about male dominance and

denial of women’s rights. It is not about bombs _

and book burning,” said Faris Al Almazrui ’07.
“In fact, the very first word which was sent to
the Prophet Muhammed from God was the

- word Iqraa’ which means read, which means

learn, which means knowledge and not barbaric
ignorance which the media image of Islam
conveys.”

Muslim representation in the media and
American society is an issue of great concern to
Idlibi, who serves both as president of the MSA
on-campus and as spokesperson for the Islamic
Center of Charlotte. .

“September 11 was a hijacking of Islamic
faith,” Idlibi said. “Eliminating misconceptions,
misperceptions and misunderstandings regard-

_ ing the religion of Islam” has become one of the
MSA’s primary goals.

As part of its fight against discrimination,
negative stereotypes and misinformation, MSA
has vocalized its opinion of the USA Patriot
Act, criticizing the legislation as intrusive and
inappropriately directed at Muslim Americans.

“We feel that the USA Patriot Act is an
oppressive piece of legislation because it com-
promises, threatens, and undermines many of
our civil rights and freedoms afforded by the

constitution,” Idlibi said.

Promoting peace and religious toleration on
campus is another goal of the MSA. In fact, the
root word of Islam, slam, means “peace” in
Arabic.

Recently the MSA issued a statement con-
demning racial hatred with respect to the KKK
incident on campus.

The statement read, “On behalf of the Mus-
lim Student Association (MSA) and the Mus-
lims at Davidson, I would like to support, un-
conditionally, this initiative that condemns rac-
ism, hatred, and bigotry. Further, we would like
to promote peace, understanding, ‘and toler-
ance. We would like to join in unison with
EVERYBODY on our wonderful Davidson
campus in doing the aforementioned.”

Currently, the MSA is organizing various
activities to celebrate the month of Ramadan,
which began last Sunday.

Ramadan is the most religious month in the
Islamic calendar. Each day during Ramadan,
Muslims fast from the break of dawn until
sunset so as to “attain discipline and self re-
straint, and observe God’s commandments,”
explains Idlibi. ,

Because group prayer is encouraged within
the Islamic faith, the MSA hopes to secure a
room on campus dedicated to prayer in the near
future. The MSA would also like to invite a
guest speaker to discuss Islam in America.

Idlibi said that by advocating peace, religious
toleration, and knowledge, the MSA hopes to
make Muslim students “feel comfortable with
being at Davidson, and at the same time main-

tain their religious convictions.”

In addition, the MSA aims to promote joint
action between the different religions on cam-
pus.

“As a member of the Muslim Student Asso-
ciation I sincerely look forward to working with
all the groups of different religious affiliations,
and to promote peace and unity within this
wonderful community; as Islam is all about
belief and faith in God, peace, unity and love
with all the different religions,” said Almazrui.

Fraternities delay bids
under new regulations

By RACHEL EGAN
Staff Writer

Patterson Court rules regarding when bids
may be given out to first-year men were
changed this year. In past years, fraternities
were permitted to give out bids starting right

after First Night Down; now, the bidding.

process must wait until after fall break.
Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm said the

main reason for this change was “to give

students. more time to get to know the

fraternities, and show them it’s not just all -

about parties.”

Fraternities have great leadership and
service opportunities and plans to help
students scholastically as well, she said. Now
a freshman’s decision to join a fraternity
begins after he has had toachance to settle into
his academic, extracurricular and athletic
schedules.

Last year a task force was put together to

Under the new guidelines, freshmen have
much more time to become acquainted with
the different fraternities and decide which one
they like, without diminished time-pressures.

Patterson Court Orientation, another new
addition to the bidding process this year,
sparked freshman interest in the fraternities.
The orientation got a good deal of positive
feedback, not only from freshmen, but also

‘from hall counselors and the houses

themselves, said Hamm.

Rob Neuman ’04, President of Fiji, called
the new guidelines “‘an excellent decision by
the administration.”

“We applaud the Patterson Court leadership
for the changes,” he said, explaining that now
the process emphasized isn’t about choosing
the first fraternity’s bid, but about choosing to
be a member of the fraternity you actually
want. ;

Said Neuman, “Fiji’s goal when we give a
bid is to make sure we’re extending a bid to a

laptops, anything,” school, what the heck is iVeStigate the bidding process. It was  fteshman whoupholds the same values we do,
Shayegan said. - ‘ the Honor Code?” discovered that many freshman men felt alot | and who really has an interest in us.”

is baie cma the OL people who don’t go This incident is not the Of pressureiftheydidn’tgetanimmediatebid, In response to the controversy over the
college community, to this school, what the first of its kind to happen F multiple bids, within the first week anda ___ week-long surge of bidding parties, Neuman
Walker encouraged stu- heck is the Hi ‘onor Code?” - at Davidson though such _ half after First Night Down. said he saw “no problem with bids being given
dents to take extra precau- vii : break-ins are bynomeans _ Magny also believed they wouldn’t receive _ out all in one week,” but that he wasn’t sure if
tions, including locking -Chief Walker a usual occurrence. Five any more bids after that time, and thus felt _ large party atmosphere was the best or most
doors at night and report- years ago faculty in sev- pressured into joining a fraternity instead of appropriate time to extend bids.

ing suspicious activity. He also noted that while eral offices in Chambers had money stolen

: finding one they truly wanted to be a member
the Davidsoncommunity might run on an Honor during the middle of the day.

of, just because it was their only bid.

“I guess it depends on the fraternity, what’
they choose to do,” he said.
