"WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 8, 2003 :

Alums, from page 1

strength of the program evolved.

Other members of the class had to leave
Davidson to fight in World War II. But wher-
ever they went after college, whatever they
became, their ties to Davidson draw them back,
year after year.

Bill Wood and Bob Patton are two members
of the class of ’43 who fought in the war
immediately after graduation, or in the case of
Patton, even before finishing school.

“J joined the enlisted reserve corps, and the

Second runners-up Charles Washington ’04 and
Tiffany Hollis ’'04 at Saturday’s Homecoming.

enlisted reserve corps kept me in school until
March, when we were called to active duty,”
said Patton. “I was very pleased that I got to stay
in school as long as I did, I had no complaint
whatsoever.”

Wood, on the other hand, entered the armed
forces within a week of graduation.

“T was in the accelerated program, so I
graduated in February of 1943, and in ong
week, I was in the armed forces, in New
Guinea,” said Wood. {

While in New Guinea, across 5 the world
from Davidson, Wood hut his knee.

“I had a bad football knee from
Davidson, and it was hurt ein while I was
fighting, so they sent me to the hospital,”
Wood said. “And would you believe it, the
doctor who looked at my knee was a gradu-
ate of Davidson!”

Patton said that despite his rather hasty
entrance into the war, while he was at
Davidson, he really didn’t know too much
about it.

“T remember life on the campus continuing
on,” said Patton. “I don’t remember it being a
pressurized or controversial time for anybody.”

For all these men, Davidson was a very
important time in their lives.

“Davidson meant a great deal to me when I

was in college,” said McGee. “Tt expanded my

knowledge, my understanding of what the world

was all about, and I think it was a significant
factor in my life, both from a standpoint of what
I did in my business and from a standpoint of
what I did in my church.”

He continued, “I think the big thing that
happened to me while I was at Davidson is that
I determined that I would not become a minister
and that I would go into my chosen profession,
journalism, which I have been in all my life.”

This decision that McGee made has had a
tremendous impact on the Dean Rusk program
in the last few years, in terms of his
contributions to the program.

“I’ve always been interested in
international studies,” McGee said.
“J traveled all over the world when
I was younger, when I worked for
the Associated Press, and I thought
that this was something very impor-
tant for the future of our country.
They need to havea strong program
for international studies, and I’m
glad that it’s going so well.”

Many members of the class come
back to Davidson at least once a
year.

“It’s very exciting [to come

back],” Patton said. “I mean, you get to see all

these folks, some of whom you can’t recognize
until you hear their voice, and you remember
their voice, and it’s so exciting to be able to talk
to some of them who you haven’t seen in years
and years and years, some of them for 60 years.

First runners-up Jeff Wheeler ’04 and
Cady Blackey ’06 (in for Ellie Blackey ‘04)

I couldn’t overemphasize the excitement that’s
involved.”

Wood agreed, “My wife and I come to
Davidson almost every summer. Usually when
I come, I walk through the college. I always
enjoy coming through, especially if I see people
that I know. Its going home in a way, it always
is.”

Addition of Alpha Phi Alpha
called historic and ‘overdue’

Historically African-
American fraternity will
take part in Self-Selection

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

Davidson will soon welcome the 909th chap-
ter of the national African-American fraternity
Alpha Phi Alpha onto campus this semester, an
event that many students are calling a historic
moment for the college.

Dean Ernest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Stu-
dent and Alpha Phi Alpha member, said the
fraternity already has a charter and will be ready
for the regular self-selection process this school
year. Though they do not have a house on
campus, they will hold meetings and various
functions on campus. There are no plans yet for
getting a house for the fraternity.

According to Jeffries, the fraternity was
formed in 1906 at Cornell University as a social
society and then as a literary society. Since then
it has had over 175,000 members including
such prominent figures as Dr. Martin Luther
King, Thurgood Marshall, W.E.B. DeBois, and
Duke Ellington.

Alumnus Lenny McAllister ’94 tried unsuc-
cessfully in the early 1990s to start a chapter of
Alpha Phi Alpha at Davidson, but was met with
resistance from administration and students.

“Tt was a different culture back then. My
opinion is that it’s freer now and there are more
attempts to diversify in the proper way,” he said.

McAllister also noted that the fraternity was
viewed as a potential threat to the “Davidson
tradition” and said that the establishment of
Alpha Phi Alpha represents the culmination of
years of work along with the extensive help and
support of administrators such as Dean Jeffries.

While many students are happy to see Alpha
Phi Alpha brought into the Patterson Court

social scene, others are concerned that the fra-
ternity might act asa divisive, element and
further support social barriers between races.

A student who those not to be named dis-
agrees with the idea behind ethnic fraternities.
“Tt is just promoting segregation. I think that
having a black frat is like saying, ‘I’m different
and I’m excluding myself.’ From my point of
view as a minority, I don’t want to just hang out
with minorities. I want to get to know other
people and other cultures. That is the point of
college.”

Tiffany Hollis ’04, the only female member
on the selection committee for the African-
American fraternity feels the fraternity will
instead promote unity for many minorities.
Hollis said, “There needs to be a stronger sense
of brotherhood among African-American
males.”

She advocates the establishment of Alpha Phi
Alpha on the basis that it is more service-
oriented than other fraternities and has a stron-
ger sense of identity for black students.

George Edwards ’04 thinks that “if people
want to do it, that’s great that they are coming
together.” Winston Kohler ’05 said the estab-
lishment of Alpha Phi Alpha is “overdue.”

Jeffries said the fraternity will add a new
experience to the rapidly changing Court. “In
terms of the social aspect for minority students
and all students, it will add another dimension to
the campus,” he said.

McAllister also asserted the importance of an
ethnic fraternity: “A lot of African-American
students are coming from a specific experience,
and when they come to college, they want a
parallel to that experience.”

Regardless of the controversy, Alpha Phi
Alpha is:coming:to Davidson, and many stu-
dents simply hope that it will enrich the social
life of Patterson Court and perhaps add a new
element of culture to what has been labelled as

_ahomogenous scene.

three categories.

‘abroad.
2)

3)

research.

$2,000,

NV

DEADLINE: November 14
to apply for
George L. Abernethy
Endowment Funds

Abernethy Funds are available to students in the following
1) Independent student research, either in the US or

Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during
the academic year or the summer.

Collaborative research by students and faculty. The
student must have a clearly defined independent role in the

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to
projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

FYI: Last year the Abernethy Endowment supported projects
with grants up to ai 500; the average award was about

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice
President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 116).

Completed application forms are due back in this office before :
5:00 p.m. on Friday, November 14, 2003. The announcement
Soreerieey & be bafore danuary 15, 2004.

sscueseetce ates
a
