10

Player Spotlight

THE DaAvIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OcrToseR 1, 2003

Kicking in obscurity, Costello fuels more than special teams

Senior pulls double-duty
on punts, field goals

By Witson McCrory

Staff Writer

Much of Davidson’s success the past two
weeks at Butler and Emory and Henry should
be credited to quarterback Damion White ’05,
who led a previously stagnant Wildcat offense
to consecutive 45-point outings. Or credit
could go to Barrett Jonson ’04, who hauled in
three touchdown catches in the Butler win. Or
perhaps it’s the defense that has allowed just
eight combined second-half points in the last
two outings. ,

While almost all facets of the Davidson
attack have clicked to spark to consecutive
wins, perhaps the most vital and reliable part
of the team goes largely unnnoticed. Coming
into the season there were many question
marks lining the Wildcats’ roster, but senior
punter and placekicker Chris Costello ’04 was
not among them.

In 2002, Costello was named to the All-
Pioneer Football League South Divison First
Team, as he registered a 38.2 yards-per-punt
average and connected on two of three field
goals. Coming into the 2003 season, Costello
was named second team All America by Foot-
ball Gazette and was also charged with the
responsibility of replacing all-time Wildcats
scoring leader Daniel Hanks, a loss to gradu-
ation last year.

In the three losses to open the season,
Costello proved to be up to the preseason
billing. He nailed a 45-yard field goal to open
the Wildcat scoring against Wingate, tied a
Davidson school record with three field goals

photo by Peter Roady
Chris Costello ’04 kicking one of

his many successful field goals
on the season
in the VMI contest, and punted six times for a
41-yard average against San Diego. In the
process, he was named the Pioneer Football
League Special Teams Player of the Week
following the Winthrop game, and was one of
the lone bright spots for the Wildcats.

Costello was equally impressive in the
team’s. two wins, and arguably provided the
turning point in each of the two games. Against
Butler, with the Wildcats trailing 27-15 mid-
way through the third quarter, Costello dropped
a 41-yard punt on the Bulldogs one-yard line,
leaving the Butler offense in terrible field
position.

The Davidson defense subsequently forced
a punt deep inside Bulldog territory, and a
good return by Yeatts Anderson 06 gave the

offense great field position at the Butler 32
yard-line. A few plays later, White connected
with Johnson for the third time of the after-

. noon, and the team would never look back.

As Costello noted of his timely punt, “Yeatts
ran down the field and caught the ball on the
one yardline before it hit the ground.}His
effort and execution of this play proved to be
the turning point in the game.”

Last weekend against Emory & Henry,
Costello again proved vital in sparking the
Wildcats from a stagnant start, as he netted a
career-long fifty-yard field goal to get Davidson
on the board in the first quarter.

According to Costello, those three points
weren’t nearly as important as the momentum
created from the score: “points on the board
are always a good thing, but when you do it in
a way that no one expects, the team gets
excited.

Last Saturday’s field goal got us on the
board and got us rolling — after that they
couldn’t stop our offense.”

Despite Costello’s impressive showing this
season, his first as the team’s full-time place
kicker, he still believes he hasn’t shown his
full range yet. “My range in practice is about
53 yards,” he states, “but if you add in the
game time adrenaline, and a little bit of wind,
I could probably hit from 58 or 59 [yards].”

Just as important as his power, however, is
Costello’ s accuracy, both in place-kicking and
punting. On the year, Costello is 6-7 on field
goal tries, with his lone miss coming from 50
yards out this past weekend at Emory & Henry.

“Every single kick istexactly the same,” he
says, “[because] I don’t even look how far the
kick is until after I’ve kicked it. I
approachfextra points}like 55-yard field goals
and vice versa . . . I generally don’t lose

accuracy on longer kicks.”

Still, Costello admits, “When I lined up for
the 50-yard attempt last Saturday, the goalposts
looked as wide as a telephone pole.fIt’s tough
to be accurate when you can barely see your
target. ‘

On his punts, Costello also displayed an
uncanny ability to pin offenses deep in their
own.zones, as he did against Butler two weeks
ago.

Over three seasons, he has landed 41 punts
inside the opponents’ 20-yard line, compared
with only seven touchbacks over that same
stretch.’

“Field position proves to be the determining
factor in the outcome of games time and time
again,” claims Costello. “We practice pinning
punts deep every week, [and] the guys on the
punt team do an outstanding job with this.
Yeatts Anderson and Jake Rice ’06 are excep-
tional at reading my punts and gauging the
bounces.”

The kicker may not receive the same degree
of attention as some of his teammates, but his
presence is undoubtedly felt. Likely, that ap-
preciation will be magnified next year, when
the ’Cats will have to replace one of the most
productive special teams players in school
history.

Meanwhile, instead of kicking for the Wild-
cats,. Costello may find himself playing for
pay next year.

As he humbly states, “I have definitely
toyed with the idea of kicking professionally
someday. I couldn’t see myself competing
with the caliber of the guys in the NFL, but ]
would love to play in the Arena League on the
side or maybe even in Europe. Getting paid to
do something I love; it doesn’t get any better
than that.”

uestion:
Answer:

uestion:
Answer:

How can I get ti

Davidson Wildcats
vs.
North Carolina Tar Heels

Charlotte Coliseum — Monday, November 24 @7:00 PM (ESPN2)

or the n
Special non-public ticket blocks will be available for sale to faculty, staff and students
beginning at 7:30 AM on Tuesday, October 7™ at the Athletic Ticket Office in Baker.

Memo to Faculty, Staff & Students:

Y ame?

Where are the tickets?_How good are the seats?
Sideline Floor seating (Side Parquet-see diagram, 420 seats total) is available to faculty, staff

| and students at a cost of $20 per ticket with a limit of four (4) tickets per person. Those who
| wish to purchase a greater number will be able buy without limit in sections 128 and 129.

v6

You may use any of the following:

Cash
Check
Visa
MasterCard
Discover
Cat Card

Can I get a student discount?
Students with an ID may purchase one ticket in the special student section on the floor under
the basket (End Parquet-see diagram, 400 seats total) at the special student price of $5.

