VoLuME 94, NUMBER 23

rs

' . ' 5 .
4 . : A :
OA coins
‘ “ %y 4 ¢ Pe Ppt ay
ie m™ i A TI AY i

j ak

Jamila Schwartz ’06 and Brika Eklund

°06 take to the lawn in front

of Belk Residence Hall to enjoy the recent warm weather.

Car accident leaves Belk, Rich
residents in the dark for night

By Matt GarFIELD
Editor

The power went out in Belk and Richardson
residence halls last Thursday for the second
occasion this school year— but this time,
Mother Nature wasn’t responsible.

A Davidson student attempting: to cross
Main Street in front of the Student Health
Center collided with an oncoming truck around
7 p.m. Thursday, forcing it to veer into a
telephone pole that carries electricity to nearly
450 students in Belk and Richardson halls.

The student was not hurt, but passengers in
the truck were taken to Lake Norman Regional
Medical Center, where they were treated for
minor injuries, said Dean of Residence Life
Leslie Marsicano.

Duke Energy officials initially said power
would be restored within three hours, but after
surveying the damage, changed their progno-
sis to Friday morning.

“At that point, we started making different
plans,” said Marsicano. “We’ re faced with the
prospect of students in a building with no
lights, no security system and no way to call

out. That’s not only inconvenient, it’s also not
entirely safe.”

RLO employees went door-to-door through
the halls, instructing residents to bunk with
friends in other dorms or stay in the Union for the
night.

Many students were away from their dorms
and weren’ t notified of the outage until long after
nightfall. Some were forced to use candles to
find their way through pitch-black halls to re-
trieve needed items from their rooms.

A few even elected to remain in their dorms
overnight, posing what Marsicano admitted was
a major liability concern.

“We told people they need to leave,” said
Marsicano. “Did we go back and check beds?
No. We informed people there was a risk to
staying in the buildings.”

One Belk resident said RLO should have done °

more to keep students updated on the situation.

“Some students stay in the library until it
closes at 1 a.m., but RLO wasn’t hanging around
until then,” said Clare Hahneman ’05, who lives
on Fourth Belk. “It‘s frustrating that they don’t

see. Blackout, page 4

Two Davidson ROTC cadets earn top award

“photo
Davideon ROTC pap k near
the Wildcat after morning PT. .

By Ros HEIpRICK
Staff Writer

Two Davidson ROTC cadets have been
presented with medals honoring their respec-
tive achievements, both in the program and‘in
the classroom. Travis Lee ’04 and Julie Perry
’04 were selected to receive the James Baker
Woods III Memorial Medal, established by
Davidson alumnus Dr. James Baker Woods,
Jr. "18 in honor of his son, who was killed
serving the United States in the Vietnam War.

Dr. Woods created the award to honor “a
rising senior military science cadet who has
displayed outstanding qualities of leadership,
moral character, academic achievement, and
aptitude for military service.”

In the past, the medal has been given only to
a single cadet, but this year program leaders

_ deemed it necessary to honor both Lee and

Perry. Major Pat Leslie, leader of the Davidson
College Army ROTC program, says he was
impressed by the dedication of each cadet. Ac-
cording to Leslie, “the winner of the award is
determined by GPA, scores on the Army Physi-
cal Fitness Test, class performance, and perfor-
mance in the ROTC program.”

In addition to receiving the Woods Medal, Lee
and Perry are also competing against each other
for the Cadet of the Year award. The winner of
this title will be selected not only from among
Davidson’s cadets, but also from those of the
other schools within the 49er Battalion to which
Davidson belongs, including UNCC, Davidson,
Catawba, JCSU, Livingstone, and Pfeiffer...

The Cadet of the Year is selected from a pool
of cadets who have been previously honored at
their own schools as Cadet of the Semester and

see ROTC, page 2

Lottery leaves
76 students ©

‘homeless’

Substance-free housing
sparks new controversy

By BRANDON CARROLL
News Editor

Could spring come to Davidson without an
RLOcontroversy? This year won’t be the one to
find out.

After Phase V of RLO’s housing process was
completed last week, 76 underclassmen re-
ceived no housing and were placed ona waiting
list. In the words of Geoff King ’06, “I’m
homeless.”

That figure includes 64 men and 12 women.

Because of the shortage of rooms, one addi-
tional complication means some students who
do not wish to be substance-free selected that
option in an effort to avoid living down the hill,
or simply to have aroom at all. On the flip side,
there are individuals who would like to be sub- -
free who are now on less regulated residence
halls.

Leslie Marsicano, Director of Residence Life,
admitted, “This has been a very peculiar year.”

As proof, Marsicano said, ““We’ ve never had
apartments left over after Martin Court lottery.”

There were also “unusually high numbers of
people who want to live off-campus,” she said.

Complicating RLO’s ability to predict de-
mand has been a variety of factors. Marsicano
cited the uncertain plans of potential transfer
students, students awaiting acceptances from
study-abroad programs and tenuous financial
situations due to the weak economy for some
who had looked to live off-campus.

Because of these influences, she said, “Some
people aren’ ttoo firm on those decisions. [They]
have been later in the year [finalizing] their
plans.”

Marsicano said that all students on the wait-
ing list would eventually have on campus hous-
ing: “I’m not worried about that at all.” She
added, “We usually have things settled by June
15. Most people will be settled well before
that.”

see RLO, page 4
INSIDE THIS WEEK

OG sis ivsvnsonvaccdoiticstvanensccoemmced
TC allocations: Did SGA follow
its own rules? Can organizations
ay student workers? See stories,

page 3.

ts & Living.............ccceeeeeeeees “6
Union announces next year’s
rtist Series line-up, page 5.

Perspectives..................s.01....7°8
ur columnists’ affirmative action
ebates continue, page 8.

ports 9-12
Lacrosse finally breaks 24-game
osing streak with win over Virginia

ech, page 11.

