THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Tailback John Leverett ‘05 tries to elude VMI defenders in Saturday’s 31-9 loss.

photo by Peter Roady

Football falls apart in 2nd half

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

With the cold front having just passed through Davidson,
fans enjoyed some perfect college football weather this past
Saturday while watching the ’Cats collapse in the second half
against VMI. The Keydets scored 31 unanswered points to win
31-9.

Leading 9-0 at the half thanks to three field goals by Chris
Costello "04, the ’Cats came out flat after the break, unable to
stop the suddenly rejuvenated VMI offense.

The third quarter saw VMI cut through wide open holes in
the Davidson defensive line and secondary, racking up over
200 yards of offense and three touchdowns, compared to
Davidson’s measly ten-yard total.

“I was disappointed, because I felt like we played on our
heels in the 2nd half,” commented Head Coach Mike Toop.
“When [VMI] tackles, they run through us. We hit and stop.”

The defense wasn’t the only side deserving the blame,
however.

The Wildcat offense, despite showing vast improvement
under newly-chosen starter Tom Cook ’06, couldn’t produce
in the red zone.

After a blocked punt in the first quarter earned Davidson a
start on the VMI 11, the offense sputtered, losing two yards and
being forced to kick a field goal. Later in the half, Cook and
running back John Leverett ’0S combined to move the ball
down the field, again tothe VMI 11. They were stopped in their
tracks again, though, and settled for their second field goal and
a 6-0 lead. ;

Finally, just before the half, linebacker Mark Wilkerson ’06
jumped up and swiped a pass away from a VMI receiver,
returning the interception to the VMI 33 with just over a minute
to go in the half. Cook got the ball to the five, where time
constraints brought Costello in to score the last Davidson
points of the game.

“Everyone was very excited about being up 9-0 at halftime,
but it should have been 17-0,” said Toop. “‘We can’t be happy
with [field goals].”

Indeed, the missed opportunities came back to bite the ’Cats,
as ineffectiveness plagued them throughout the second half.

Apparently, the VMI offense had their alarm clocks set for
halftime. They came out of the gates fired up, shooting bullets
to open receivers and running up the gut behind perfect
blocking for large gains.

The big plays—two fumbles, an interception, and a blocked
punt—that Davidson had relied on in the first half disappeared
as well.

After initially planning to take advantage of Davidson’s
poor rush defense with a run-heavy offense, the Keydets
returned after the half to a pass/rush mixture, a call that threw
Davidson defenders into a frenzy, leaving the ’Cats confused
as to how they shut VMI out for so long.

“[VMI] was very vanilla offensively in the first half, but then
they came out with their regular offense in the third quarter,”
said Toop. “Defensively, we just have to be more physical than
the way we were.”

After another VMI score, capped by a45-yard rush, Davidson
tried to reignite the flame. Bad breaks seemed to crush any
hope of a comeback.

On first and ten with 8:47 left to play from the Davidson 37,
Cook found a wide-open Brett Dioguardi ’07 for a sure
touchdown throw, but the turf-monster reached up and grabbed
Dioguardi by the ankle, pulling him to the ground for a 39-yard
reception.

As luck would have it, two plays later, Cook made a crisp
pass into traffic that was deflected right into the hands of a VMI
defender for an interception.

Concerning the lack of execution on defense and in the red
zone, Coach Toop believes, “It’s never one person; it’s always
a combination of things. When people take turns breaking
down, we’ll never be consistent.”

“We’ve played two very tough opponents, and we’ ve been
out-physicalled by both of them. Hopefully, we'll step it up
[next Saturday at 7 p.m. at Richardson Stadium] because San
Diego is a very good team. Their QB can flat-out throw.”

Davis’ hat trick
sparks soccer wins

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

Sophomore Jeff Davis exploded onto the men’s soccer scene
this weekend, as he tallied four goals in just two games to lead
his team to victories over Mount St. Mary’s and host UNLV at
the UNLV Soccer Tournament in Las Vegas.

Last season, Davis played in only nine games and recorded
only one goal. His teammates, however, insist that this week-
end was not simply luck, but a performance waiting to happen.

“Jeff Davis has always been a great player, and this weekend
he was finally able to show off his talent,” says captain Justin
Porter 04.

The weekend started with a game against Mount St. Mary’s,
in which Davis recorded a hat trick to give the "Cats a 3-0
victory. As Davis recounts, “I was played great balls from Cass
[Baltz 06], Mac [Wilkie ’06], and Ben [Kittinger ’05], and |
was simply in the right spots at the right times. After the first
goal, I gained some confidence and knew that if I got the
chance, I could score again.”

In the 66th minute of play, Davis received a through ball
from Baltz and tallied his second goal of the game with a shot
near post. Just seven minutes later, he finished out his hat trick
with a shot to the far post off a cross from Kittinger.

Davis believes his off-season work is the main reason for his
success: “Since last season, I’ ve worked a lot on finishing and
have gained much more confidence with the ball.”

Pitted against the home team, the Wildcats came out strong
Sunday afternoon to win a close game, 3-1. Baltz scored the
first goal in the 26th minute, but UNLV answered shortly after
halftime.

Play remained close until Davis recorded his fourth goal of
the weekend at the 82:41 mark. Matt Allen ’06 scored
Davidson’ third and final goal just before the end of the game.

Even though his teammates insist that Davis was the “differ-
ence maker in the tournament, stepping up and scoring the
game-winning goals,” as Wilkie noted, Davis is quick to give
the credit to the rest of the team.

“T think the keys to our wins were our defensive backs. John
Latting played great defense, and Justin Porter was every-
where. We only allowed one goal in the two games.”

San Diego vs. Davidson
7 p.m., Richardson Stadium

LAST WEEK: The Torreros opened the season with a 24-
14 loss to Azusa Pacific. San Diego scored 14 fourth quarter
points, but it wasn’t enough to overcome the 24-0 deficit.

SCOUTING SAN DIEGO: The Torreros return 14 start-
ers off a team that finished 5-5 last year, good for second place
in the PFL North Division.

. While San Diego boasts an experienced quarterback in Eric
Rasmussen, the team lost its top two tailbacks to graduation
and now starts sophomore Evan Harney (6-1, 215 pounds),
who joined the team this season.

These teams last met in San Diego in 2000, with the
Wildcats winning 27-13 en route to their historic 10-0 season.

WHAT TO EXPECT: The Wildcats’ 0-2 start is plenty
frustrating, and a win against the Torreros would go a long
way toward lifting the team’s spirits, as well as re-igniting its
hopes for a sixth straight winning season.

Davidson will need a steady performance from quarterback
Tom Cook—who won the job with his improved play last
week. But more importantly, the Wildcats will need to keep
the defense off the field enough to keep it fresh for the second
half. That hasn’t happened in the first two weeks.

The Davidsonian

Player of the Week

Jeff Davis ‘06

Men’s Soccer
Hometown: Falmouth, Maine

Major: Undecided

Tip your hats to Jeff Davis, who scored 3 goals in
Friday’s game against Mt. St. Mary’s and added another
on Sunday against host UNLV. His play earned him
Southern Conference player of the Week honors.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Inside linebacker Mark Wilkerson ’06 gave the ’Cats something to cheer
about in Saturday’s loss to VMI, with an interception and 14-yard return
that resulted in a Davidson field goal. With time running down in

’ the second quarter and the Keydets in need of a quick gain,
the VMI QB threw the ball up the middle, where
Wilkerson jumped in front of his man to make the
interception. He continued to run the ball up the
sideline for the gain. In addition, Wilkerson added a
team-leading 14 tackles and his second forced fumble
of the season to his impressive performance.

