By Matt GarFIELD
Editor

The top two teams in the Southern Conference met Tuesday
night in Belk Arena, and the result was what you might expect:
a tense, back-and-forth game that took until the final seconds
to decide.

Two hours and 18 lead changes after it began, College of
Charleston emerged with a 94-89 overtime win that clinched
the Cougars’ sixth straight South Division title.

The Wildcats (16-9, 10-5) need a win over VMI on Saturday
to lock up a first-round bye in next week’s Southern Confer-
ence tournament.

They can still earn a share of the North Division champion-
ship with a win coupled with an ETSU victory over Appala-
chian State.

But the Wildcats lost control of their own destiny in confer-
ence seedings, and it came in thrilling, ultimately heartbreak-
ing fashion.

Ian Johnson’s lay-up with 3:05 left in overjime gave the
Wildcats an 88-84 lead, and a victory against the South
Division-leading Cougars (22-6, 12-3) seemed within reach.

The Wildcats had finally found a way to slow down senior
Troy Wheless, who finished with 31 points, including eight
three-pointers. Most of those points came early in the second
half, when Wheless went on a scoring tear, connecting on four
straight three-pointers to give the Cougars a 57-47 lead.

But overtime belonged to Stanley Jackson, an unheralded
sophomore guard averaging five points per game, came alive
in the overtime period, hitting three straight inside buckets to
give Charleston a 90-88 lead that would be the difference.

Davidson had one chance to tie it with a three-pointer in the
final seconds. Trailing 92-89 with 11 seconds left, the Wild-
cats called timeout and looked to set up a shot for Peter Anderer
or Brendan Winters.

But with both players sealed off by the Cougars’ defense,
Wayne Bernard took it himself, launching a three-pointer from
the top of the key that glanced off the front rim.

“T thought Wayne gota great look at it,” said head coach Bob
McKillop. “I’d put the ball in his hands and let him take that
shot every time.”

Said Bernard: “It looked like it was going in, but it wasn’t
meant to be.”

Bernard appeared exhausted as the overtime period wore on,
and with good reason. For 36 minutes, Bernard zipped up and
down the court, scoring 18 points along with seven rebounds
and six assists.

Peter Anderer, in his fourth game since returning from a
hand injury, rediscovered his golden shooting touch, scoring
16 points on 5-of-8 shooting.

Sophomore Conor Grace (15 points, 16 rebounds) anchored
a strong inside game with help from freshman Ian Johnson (12
points).

Brendan Winters, at times unstoppable on Saturday against
Appalachian State, managed nine points on 3-of-9 shooting,
facing heavy pressure from the Cougar defenders.

Davidson 94 Appalachian State 81

BOONE—For much of the season, Brendan Winters has
played as well as any freshman basketball player in the South-
ern Conference.

After his performance in Saturday’s 94-81 win over Appa-
lachian State in Holmes Convocation Center, it might soon be
time to remove “freshman” from that sentence.

In what will likely rank as one of the conference’s best
single-game performances of the season, Winters scored 27

Men’s hoops falls short in overtime
thriller, need help to win North title

Sports Information’
Wayne Bernard led the Wildcats with 18
points in Tuesday’s loss to Charleston.

points on 8-of-10 shooting, adding five rebounds and two
blocks in 34 minutes.

Even more important was when he scored.

Davidson nearly put the game out of reach in the first 30
minutes, hitting 9-of-14 three-pointers in the first half and
opening up a 73-56 lead with 9:57 left.

But on a day when Appalachian State (17-8, 10-4) honored
six seniors and played before a season-high crowd of 5,373,
you had a feeling the Mountaineers wouldn’t go quietly.

Sure enough, a flurry of three-pointers and acrobatic lay-ups
by point guard Shawn Hall helped whittle the deficit to 83-79
at the 4:15 mark.

With three starters—Wayne Bernard, Conor Grace and
Michel Lusakueno—playing with four fouls, the Wildcats
appeared doomed.

That’s when Winters took control, hitting two straight run-
ning jump shots and adding two free throws during the decisive
11-2 Davidson run that closed the game.

“The past couple of weeks, my shot has been feeling better
than it ever has,” said Winters, who is averaging 22 points per
game over the past five contests.

Southern Conference ‘Tournament

Charleston, S he
If the Wildcats finish i in Grigiee in the North
they’ll play on” ursday at 6 p.m. A
would mean a 2:30 p.m. game on Thursday,
"Should Davidson win Thursday, the Wildcats wi sity
on Friday at either 6p.m.or 8:30pm.
The championship game is eel ae by! ESPN. on Saturday
at 6 p.m.
Student tickets are sold at half-price: 925 fora tournament
book oon sessions/men and apeeetieeh: persession.

Eoaies

__ WepNespay,
FEBRUARY 26, 2003

The Cats no longer control

_ When the Wildcats take

VMI it in Belk Arena, their fate may already be decided. ETSU
will host pane State at 4 pm. ina game that will have

is Mountaineer victory ‘would lock Bovidion Sates: the
second seed in the tournament, win or lose. Davidson holds
the tiebreaker over both teams, with a 2-0 record against
Appalachian State and a 1-1 record against ETSU. _

_ If the Bucs pull out the win, the VMI contest will be the
biggest of the season for the *Cats.

An Appalachian State loss and Dividion win would. give
the Wildcats the No. 1 seed in the Northern Division, a
position they would certainly like to have. A Bucs win anda
| Davidson loss would place the ’Cats as the third seed i in the
tournament. 2

College of Charleston looks like the favorite heading into
the tournament, especially since the Cougars have the advan-
tage of playing just minutes from their campus and in san of
thousands of their fans.

But Davidson and Chattanooga appear to be ate behind,
and both figure to-hang around into the weekend. :

Appalachian State, ETSU and Wofford could also contend.

A different team has won the championship each of the past
four years, with Davidson’s titles coming in 1998 and 2002.

No matter how the bracket pans out, the Wildcats will plan
to take the same attitude into postseason play that they have
had throughout the season. .As sophomore Conor Grace
points out, however, there is a unique atmosphere in tourna-
ment games.

“It’s a lot different in tournament play,” he says. “You're
used to going places, getting there the night before, playing
and leaving. During the tournament, if you win, you stay.
You try to stay off your feet between games, waiting to play
again. The emphasis is less on practice and more on watching
film and getting focused. It’s a different feeling.”

Last year, Grace was the only freshman who saw signifi-
cant minutes in the tournament. This year is sure to be much
different, with three freshmen—lan Johnson, Brendan Win-
ters and Matt McKillop— likely to see more than 20 minutes

“They can handle it,” Grace says. “They’ve seen all the
teams before, they’ve played in big games before.”

“I’m sure that the coaches and older players will tell me not
to change anything and just keep playing how I’ve been
playing all year,” says. Winters. ee Loreal: we're taking it
one ‘day at a time.”

"Added freshman fan Johnson: “(think we, the freshmen,

are: special by the: way ae coach and the upperclassmen talk
about them. To grow up following these tournaments and be
ee tle me ore
art of the season.” ro

The Davidsonian

Player of the Week —

Matt Dellinger * 04

Baseball
Hometown: Hickory, NC

Major: Psychology

In his first start of the season, Dellinger allowed
just one hit and two walks while striking out
one in five innings to lead the Wildcats’ to
a 9-3 win over Oakland (Mich.).

Track and Field at SoCon Indoor Ch

Baseball vs. Mount St.. Mary’s (doubleheader)
Rugby vs. College of Charleston

Women’s Tennis at UNC Wilmington

Men's Tennis vs. Richmond

Men's Basketball at Appalachian State
Women’s Basketball vs. East Tennessee State

Baseball vs. Mount St. Mary's
Lacrosse at UNC Chapel Hill

Women's Basketball at Georgia Southern

Baseball vs. Oakland
Men's Basketball vs, College of Charleston

All Day

12:00 p.m.
12:00 p.m.
12:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
3:00 p.m.
miecnannnsesaee SUNDAY -cocneenn-nen
1:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.

5:00 p.m.

3:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.
