“T thought it was a good combination of
humor and sincerity, but I wish I had seen
more of the Davidson men there.”

Rebecca Titus ’03

“It was my third time seeing it, and I
thought it was good to see such a liberal
play at Davidson. I especially enjoyed the
glimpses of other cultures, like the Native
American monologue.”

Tim Kelley ’04

“T liked it because it gave me insight as to
how women view themselves and how they
feel about their bodies, and it made me
think about how I could treat women bet-

James Taylor ’06

“I thought it was hilarious and well done,
but the most important part was the strong
message about sexual violence.”

Amy Edwards ’04

Arts & Living Editor

When so many films abuse melodrama, Rab-
bit-Proof Fence exploits our emotions for a

~ purpose. Itdocuments a greatinjustice thatisn’t

as historical as we might hope. Until 1970 the
Australian government “removed” children of
mixed aboriginal and white ancestry from their
mothers. They were taken to Christian schools
that taught Western standards of behavior and
English, prepping them for lives ;
as domestic servants. ie
The film tells the true story of
Molly, Daisy and Gracie, three
aboriginal girls kidnapped from
their mothers by the Australian
goverment. The girls arrive at a
“school,” and soon, the older girl,

sactsin (ecttcntarily®:

On the other hand, Talk to Her is as isin:
as movies can get. It doesn’t juggle plot like
Memento or Mulholland Drive. Rather, itthrows
sO many emotions at the audience that at times
we are overwhelmed. Do we laugh or cry?
Should we sympathize or chastise the charac-
ters?

It is the latest from Pedro Almodévar, the
man behind films like All About My Mother and
Live Flesh. It’s also his most serious work, but
it doesn’t lack his unique sense
of humor or ethical dilemmas.
Presented as a short, silent film,
one scene is particularly exhila-
rating. We laugh while it dis-
turbs us more than anything in
superficial films like Requiem
com fora Dream. Talkto Herisafilm

Molly escapes with Daisy and Everlyn Sampi in Rabbit of substance, supporting by the

Gracie in tow. Their destination is home, 1,500
miles away. Their legs provide the only trans-
portation. They are 8, 10 and 14 years old.
What happens is extraordinary. Surviving on
their wit, luck and the kindness of strangers, the
girls find their way home by following the
titular fence. Description of their journey home

would be tedious and unnecessary. Rabbit- °

Proof Fence is aspare film, one that lets its story
and the involved emotions speak for them-
selves.

The girls are played by Everlyn Sampi,
Tianna Sansbury and Laura Monaghan. They
give bare, simple performances perfectly suited
to the story. Kenneth Branagh plays A.O.
Neville, the government official in charge of
“relocation.” Neville is obviously the villain,
but Branagh plays him straightforwardly: he
believes he is doing no wrong.

What else can be said about Rabbit-Proof
Fence? It’s a sparse, effective film that commu-
nicates an important message. We know who is

- good and whois bad, and our reaction to the film

is sadness. Director Philip Noyce never makes
awrong move, especially at the end. Itis ahappy
moment, but as the film’s endnotes remind us,
the girls and their mothers. can only escape

What’s the best way to
reach over 3000
members of the

Davidson’s campus and

the surrounding area?

Advertise in the
Davidsonian!

For more information or to
reserve ad space, contact
Gregg Wallace
(704-894-7087, grwallace @ davidson.edu)

or Jeff Larrimore |
(704-894-6743, jelarrimore @ davidson.edu)

fact that Almod6évar has received an Oscar
nomination for direction.

The film stars Javier Cémara and Dario
Grandinetta, two men in love with comatose
women. They care for the women, they read to
them, bathe them, sit by them day after day.
Surprises emerge that I should not reveal, and
perhaps I have already revealed too much.

Talk to Her has more emotional range than
any other movie of which I can think, and itis as
unique, vague, and specific as any film you will
ever see. Contradictory? Yes, but that is what
Almodé6var is all about.

Rabbit-Proof Fence and Talk to Her are both
playing at Birkdale.

Celebrity Spring Break brought to you
by StudentCity.com! Book now and
save up to $100 on all International

trips. Party like a rock star with
MAXIM Magazine and Jackass’s
Steve-O. Call 1-800-293-1445
for details, e-mail
sales@studentcity.com,
or book online at
www. studentcity.com

