ae

Making art,
making a difference’ |

After holding a student art sale last semester to benefit Habitat for Humanity, the Davidson
College photography club has decided once again to raise money for a good cause by selling
the fruits of Davidson students’ creative labors. This time the proceeds from the event will go
to a book club for community teenagers. The sale will run from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Union
atrium on Wednesday, Oct. 1, and will feature photographs, drawings and other art by Davidson
students and faculty. Event coordinator Sally Stanhope’05 describes the works as “invalu-
able.” Pictured below are some of the pieces that will be up for sale. *

Caroline Hartridge :

SECMACIIOS

F gna FP & Grivnde&rs

; Wednesday is :

1 All You Can Eat :

P|

_Spashetti Night!! 5

Breads/Pizza baked from scratch
704-987-9060 ae N. mein St.

(Behind Town Hall, Next to Food Lion)

Davidson students
and staff receive a 10%

discount on all items

L

0)

4

®
pe

1

By Steve KALIsKI
Staff Writer

If you think that your life couldn’t get any
worse, then “The Magdalene Sisters” is the
movie for you. I for one left the theater per-
fectly aware that my life is pretty darn good.

Ina perversely inspiring way, this cold, bru-
tal film will show you that any complaints you
have about the world are mere annoyances
compared to the monastic hell endured by the
female victims of the Irish Magdalene con-

vents. As unentertaining as pedigreed cinema

gets, Peter Mullan’s “The Magdalene Sisters”
will leave you completely numb and confused
as to why you decided to go to the movies in
the first place.

The painfully honest “Magdalerte Sisters”
never once suggests that hope springs eternal.
It embraces the moral destruction of its pro-
tagonists with unflinching truthfulness, refus-
ing to shy away from certain realities of cap-
tivity that are often censored from the screen.

The film begins by introducing three Irish
women in the 1960s who, as the result of dif-
fering degrees of sinfulness, are exported to
the Magdalene sisterhood to cleanse them-
selves of their wrongdoings. Margaret (Anne-
Marie Duff) is raped by her cousin, Rose (Dor-
othy Duffy) has a child out of wedlock, and
Bernadette (Nora-Jane Noone) simply flirts
with schoolboys all too often; in the eyes of
their families and teachers, all of these tres-
passes constitute mortal sins
deserving of severe punish-
ment.

This perplexed trio ar-
rives at the Magdalene con-
vent, where they quickly
meet Sister Bridget
(Geraldine McEwan), the
nunnery’s slight yet fright- &
ening chief. As she counts
her significant supply of
cash on her desk, she in-
forms the newcomers that
only prayer and endless
good works in the laundry

LIVING

. ‘Sisters’ honest, unflinching

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

Director:
Peter Mullan

Writer:
Peter Mullan

Starring:
Geraldine McEwan, Anne-Marie
Duff, Nora-Jane Noone, Dorothy
Duffy

less for each other than they did at the begin-
ning.

Despite the consistently off-putting auster-
ity of the production, it would be a sin toigonore
the skill involved in making audience mem-
bers like me so miserable. With anightmarishly
sweet, grandmotherly voice that would send
chills up the spine of the Wicked Witch of the
West, McEwan’s Sister Bridget steals the show
from her subtler costars. The authenticity of
the film makes her surreal, almost cartoonish
delivery even more terrifying.

Contending-with McEwan for most haunt-
ing performance is supporting actress Eileen
Walsh, who plays the frantic, brainwashed
Crispina. Like Rose, the Magdalene convent
claimed Crispina for having a premarital birth.
The child she never met occasionally comes
with her sister to the gates of the convent, where
mother and son communicate from 100 yards

CO) Miramax

room will lead these aimless jjora-Jane Noone and Eileen Walsh in ‘Sisters’

girls to salvation.

It doesn’t take long for Margaret, Rose, and
Bernadette to realize that purity exists only on
the surface in the Magdalene asylum. They are
exposed to both physical and mental cruelty,
from incessant beatings to torturous silences.
Girls who try to run away are sent to Sister
Bridget for a haircut, and her scissors often cut
deeper than the scalp.

Mullan never succumbs to supplying the
audience with any shred of optimism. Given
the nuns’ fierce watch on all of the convent’s
activities, the girls cannot forge the kind of re-
lattonship that would make such a depraved

lifestyle bearable. By the end they care even’

Open @ 11 a.m. 7 days/wk. - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!

GS zen
SUNDRIES- RESTAURANT: BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

apart via their St. Christopher medallions. An
incident with Bernadette at the halfway point
sends Crispina reeling into mental illness, and
while I won’t give anything away, her down-
fall casts an enduring spell over the film’s final
frame.

As noble as it is, “The Magdalene Sisters”
boasts very little in the way of uplifting quali-
ties. While intentionally graphic films usually
justify their existence through a powerfully
stated moral, Peter Mullan is content simply to
say nothing and show everything. And granted,
as horrible as the words to describe this picture
may be, itis definitely worth athousand of them.

i 40514

NFL Sunday Ticket [1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-n ony)| 7-10: Mike Federal
dR Barkley’
ESPN College Game Plan Every tiseecinn’ an Braces: perniey
NFL Specials 1/2 Price Wings DJ Scotty Westcoast
Sunday &Monday | Bufo, Barbelo, Barbeque [No Cover w/ Student ID}
Special $1.50 Draft Pint (dine-in only)
During All NFL Games ae aly
Burger Madness $5 Cover
$4.00 Specialty Dog é ater
w/ Fixin’s Bar All Burgers: $4.95 (dine in only) | 2) and up after 1opm

18665 Harborside Dr. - (704)896-9013

|-77 to Exit 28 - Go W. on Catawba to Harborside Dr

Follow to end
