12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

String of losses ends field
hockey streak; Duke up next

Seven game win streak

a distant memory as
schedule toughens

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

After seven games without a loss, the field
hockey squad suffered a blowout defeat at the
hands of top-ranked Wake Forest.

Although Davidson had slim hopes of beat-
ing the (then) undefeated Demon Deacons,
their three subsequent losses against western-
Norpac opponents have blemished Davidson’s
perfect conference
record and put them
at four games with-
out a win.

The ’Cats must
now grit their teeth
and prepare for a fi-
nal push with the
conference tourna-
ment just around the
: corner.

. Two weeks ago,
Kathleen Fenn ‘04 1. -cats hosted
Wake Forest in a showdown under the lights.

Even with the drama of the defending their
seven game winning streak against the na-
tional champions, midterms and some ugly
weather kept all but die-hard fans at bay.

Still, the ’Cats showed plenty of intensity at
the game’s outset, remaining remarkably
poised against their national champion oppo-
nents.

Whether it was the wet playing conditions
or the Deacons’ stingy defense, however, the
*Cats struggled to work the ball up the field,
much less amount any effective offense.

The Wake Forest goalie stood inanimate for
long stretches of time, facing only one shot the
entire game.

At the eight-minute mark, the Deacons fired
ina shot off a penalty corner, which opened up
the-floodgates.

Thé¢ Deacons would amass a 7-0 lead by the
close of the first half. Sarah Nolan ’05 pre-
vented the loss from being worse by managing
18 saves, and defensive standout Courtney
Hughes ’05 had four saves of her own.

Still, these efforts proved no match for the
Deacon’s 46-shot bombardment, which left
the scoreboard reading 12-0 as time expired.

We played well at the beginning,” says head
coach Lisa Thompson, “but we started suffer-
ing mental breakdowns later in the game.”

Thompson partially attributes the lopsided-
ness of the loss to this breakdown. “We got
back on our heels against Wake, which you
can’t do,” she says. “They’re on a mission.”

After this defeat, the Cats traveled to St.
Louis for a tournament against several west-
ern-Norpac conference opponents. Their first
game was against St. Louis, who entered the
match with an 0-10 record that included a loss
against Davidson.

The ’Cats, though, posted one of their worst
performances of the season and were unable to
cope with some surprising offensive output by
St. Louis.

The Billikens managed to score three goals
off only 9 shots, and the ’Cats, despite out-
shooting their opponents, looked sloppy
throughout the game.

We did not have our best performance,”
comments Thompson. “Our off the ball move-
ment wasn’t great.”

The ’Cats would pull themselves together
for their next tournament match against a
tough Pacific team.

They fell behind 1-0 early and struggled to
produce offense, managing only four shots
during regulation; however, a shot by captain
Kathleen Fenn ’04 found the back of the net,
tying the score at 1-1 and forcing overtime.

The ’Cats came out strong in the overtime
period. They managed to outshoot the Tigers
5-3, including a penalty corner off the post, but
could not find the net. The game would go to
the strokes (a shootout), where the Tigers
managed the victory.

In the final match of the tournament,
Davidson failed to amount any offense against
Southwest Missouri and was blanked 1-0. The
Bears enjoyed a 14-7 shot advantage, handing
Davidson its third loss of the tournament.

We played some tough teams in St. Louis,”
says Fenn, who recorded all three of the ’Cats’
goals in the tournament, “but we are deter-
mined to remain the number one seed in the
Eastern division of the Norpac Conference.”

Holding onto this position will require vic-
tories in upcoming games against rivals
Radford and Appalachian State. ““We are pre-
paring for those games and not dwelling on
our losses,” says Fenn.

The prospect of a conference championship
is still very promising. The ’Cats conference
record against eastern-division opponents,
which currently stands at 3-1, will determine

Iphia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer! _

WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 22, 2003

Ors

photo by Peter Roady

Carrie Lewis ’06 looks to pass in a recent field hockey contest

its placement in the year-end tournament.

Since Southwest Missouri and Pacific are
from the western half of the Norpac, the ’Cats’
three-game slide in St. Louis will only cost
them one true loss.

Depending on how they finish the season,
they may earn a very favorable position come
tournament time.

Before these conference games comes a
match against: Duke.

A field hockey powerhouse, the Blue Dev-

ils recently ended Wake Forest’s 31-game
unbeaten streak with a 1-0 victory. The ’Cats
will have their hands full with Duke, who will
be the last non-conference opponent they will
face. A home match, the game will be played
on Thursday at 7 p.m.

It’s going to be a tough game,” says Coach
Thompson on facing the Blue Devils.

Instead of predicting a victory, she provides
a single certainty: “we’re going to make their
job a lot tougher.”

Senior Class Gift Update

75% 74.7%

Senior Dinners, sponsored by the President's Office, continues throughout the academic

74.7% of the Senior
- Class has either
pledged or paid!

If the class of 2004
reaches 75% participation,
President and Mrs. Vagt
will make an additional
gift of $12,004 in honor

of the Senior class

Pay your pledge or make
your gift online at |
.www.davidson.edu/giving
or contact Molly Shaw x2831
or Maria Tardugno x2103 in
the Annual Fund Office

