Second ‘Wildcat House’ in

five years nears completion

Money raised by chili cook-off, ‘hammerhead’ t-shirts
helps to fund house for recent high school graduate

By Joe TAYLOR
Staff Writer

The Davidson chapter of Habitat for Human-
ity is about to finish its second Wildcat Habitat
House.

According to Kelley Hubbell ’03 , co-chair of
Davidson’s Habitat for Humanity, the house
will be completed by graduation. ‘There will
be a dedication before the seniors leave so that
we can all celebrate the completion of the
second Wildcat House,” Hubbell said.

The first Wildcat Habitat House was .com-
pleted in 1997. The second project began on
December 12 when the College transferred the
lot at 535 Westside Terrace to Our Towns
Habitat for Humanity. Since 1994, the College
has transferred approximately eleven such lots
to Our Towns Habitat for Humanity at little to
no charge.

Our Towns Habitat for Humanity, an affiliate
of the Davidson College chapter of Habitat, has
constructed 75 houses since 1998 around
Davidson, Mooresville, Cornelius and
Huntersville.

With their help, volunteers from Davidson
College began construction on February 1,
2003. The project is nearly complete.

The Davidson chapter of Habitat for Human-
ity has been raising money for the project since
April 2002, utilizing on-campus fundraisers
such as the Chili Cook-off, Brick-by-Brick,
International 21 Year Old Night, the self selec-
tion dinner, Hammerheads, and profits from T-
shirt sales and exam packs. Habitat for Human-
ity has also received financial assistance from

the Bonner Community Fund.

“In order to build a Habitat House, it costs
$55,000,””’said” Hubbell, who shares her lead-
ership position with co-chairs Ann Marie
Wesneski ’04 and Casey Sams ’03 . “‘We also
have the opportunity to build three houses in
Guatemala for $60,500.”

Hubbell attributes the success of the project
to Davidson as a whole: “We have pretty much
received support from faculty, staff, and stu-
dents.”

Hubbell also thanked Mary Kathryn Ross
and Rosie Molinary, the community service
advisors at Davidson, for all of their help.

Because of this community effort, another
local family will have a home. Shanika Tuck, a
1999 graduate of North Mecklenburg High
School, will live in the house with her child and
her young nephew.

Tuck will be able to move into her new home
as soon as the Habitat group finishes painting
the interior of the house, landscaping the exte-
rior, and completing the siding.

“She is really great and we have really en-
joyed working with her,””’said Hubbell.

The College chapter of Habitat for Humanity
plans to continue constructing houses with local
affiliates Our Towns and Cabarrus Country.

“Two new coordinators, Caitlin Kiley ’06
and Conor Mooney ’06 , will be joining Ann
Marie in the upcoming year to co-chair Habi-
tat,” noted Hubbell.

“IT can’t say that we plan to fundraise for
another Wildcat House right away, but it has
been a great experience that has been really
beneficial to everyone involved.”

Rusk plans fun & games to
support Operation Smile

By ELizaBETH DEVLIN
Special Contributor

This semester, the women of Rusk eating
house have been fundraising for the interna-
tional organization Operation Smile. They have
devoted themselves to bringing smiles to the
faces of children with cleft pallets and other
facial deformities.

Operation Smile’s website describes the pro-
gram as “a private organization, not-for-profit,
volunteer medical services organization pro-
viding reconstructive surgery and related health

care to indigent children and young adults in ©

developing countries and the United States.”
Rusk is hosting two events in April to support
Operation Smile, hoping to raise enough funds
to fully sponsor at least one operation.

On Thursday, April 24, Rusk will hold a
faculty basketball game at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena.
Tickets will be $3 for students and children and
$5 for adults. The following day, Friday, April
25, Rusk will kick off Spring Frolics with a
Festival of Smiles from 2 to 5 p.m. The event
will include activity booths, food, and live mu-
sic on the Patterson Court Lawn.

To learn more about Operation Smile visit
their website at www.operationsmile.org.

wily 3 0n3 Tournament

DICKS

Sponsored by Dick’s Sporting Goods

we Saturday, April 26th

Prizes include

Carolina

TOURNAMENT

* Gift Certificate to Dick’s Sporting Goods
* New Spaulding Infusion Basketball
* FREE ticket to next season’s Davidson vs North

For more information, or to register, go to
http://;www.davidson.edu/administrative/athletics
And click on the Tournament logo link.

$35 Registration for outside teams
Only $30 for Davidson teams.

Call x2767, or stop by the Promotions office in Baker
Cat-Cards are accepted.

SGA spending comes
under fire during
allocation season

By GeorGiE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

Despite the annual proverbial struggle to fit a
400-pound woman into a size two dress, as
ATC members describe their task, last night’s
approval of this year’s allocations is not the end
of the drama.

In particular, this semester, SGA has spent
money from their ATC-allocated special
projects fund on donations to charities such as
the Tim Hayes’ Fund and the Humane Society.
Whether or not this is a legitimate use for the
money, which is intended for student use, is up
for debate.

The Activities Tax Council, a subcommittee
of the SGA, is responsible for allocating the
student activities tax, which is built in to each
student’s tuition fees. While SGA is entitled to

are completely woninlle:
important for the student gr i
fundraise instead of giving money. This shows :
more effort and concern.on our part then just
writing a check and gives real time and shows .
how much the students care,” said Elizabeth
Matthews”’04, vice-chair of the ATC.

By all accounts, these donations. were con-
trary to the intentions guiding the ATC alloca-
tions.

There is, however, no specific clause in the
bylaws of the SGA that dictates how money
should be used. The ATC is currently*working
on a constitution that will clarify these matters
in the future.

“When parents pay the activities tax fee, they
are paying for their students to participate in
activities on and off campus. While this may
seem selfish, this money is not meant for dona-
tions to outside charities,” said Matthews.

The money allocated to the SGA is intended
for events such as SGA day, staff appreciation
day, and class picnics. Money also goes toward
the Vamonos Van, buses to athletic events, and
the red community bicycles.

“] think it is our responsibility, along with all
of the student organizations and the SGA, to
spend the Activities Tax Fund in the best inter-
est of the students,” said Matthews.

ATC tackles thorny payment
issue during deliberations

At issue: can student organizations pay volunteers?

By Ros HEIpRick

Staff Writer

The Activities Tax Council, the board re-
sponsible for allocating funds to student activi-
ties groups across campus, is in the midst of a
debate centering on the monetary compensa-
tion of leaders of student activity groups.

The issue at hand focuses on deciding which
student employees could receive payment for
their services, and which will not.

The decisions faced by the council are ex-
tremely controversial due to the selective nature
of the allocations.

Essentially, if council members did decide to
support payment of student employees, the line
would be difficult to draw in terms of which
students deserve compensation.

William Brown, Coordinator of Student Ac-
tivities and ATC member, outlines the debate as
a contention between practical financial con-
cems and a desire to spark motivation and
dedication in student leadership.

“On the one hand, where do you stop? If you
pay the presidents of some organizations and
the vice presidents of some organizations, how
far down the line do you go?” asks Brown. “But
some people have felt thatit has beenin student’ s
best interests to be paid, because they have been
able to generate more revenue than their volun-
teer predecessors.”

ATC Chair Amanda Mildner ’03 stresses that
the council’s position is fairly unanimous in its
position against further student compensation.

“While we understand why they want to do
this, we feel it is unnecessary for several rea-
sons,” says Mildner. “First of all, we would be
opening the floodgates for every student in a
leadership position to get paid.

“Secondly, students join these organizations
to give something to the community and to be
part of the life on campus. You don’t do this to
get paid. Finally, we expect most of the organi-
zations to generate much of their own revenue.”

The Activities Tax, which is accumulated
from one percent of each student’ s tuition (about
$250 per student), makes up about $395,000 in
funds that the council distributes to each of the
various campus organizations.

Each year, according to Mildner, requests for
funding exceed actual monies taken in by the
tax.

“This year the buzzword has been that [allo-

cating the funds] is like trying to fit a 400-pound
woman into a size 2,” says Mildner.

Certain student positions are already com-
pensated by ATC funds becaiise of “grandfa-
ther” clauses within those organizations. These
positions include the SGA Chancellor, the SGA
Treasurer, and the Davidsonian editorial board
and delivery staff. Other positions are pre-
vented from being compensated by ATC re-
strictions.

For example, the ATC stipulates that none of
its funds are permitted to go to direct charitable
donations, because the funds come from tuition
and are intended for use by students to improve
life on campus.

In addition, ATC guidelines restrict payment
of certain specific employees, such as
Davidsonian writers.

Positions currently being reviewed for com-
pensation include these Davidsonian writers, as
well as WALT Core DJs and the Wildcat Hand-
book editor.

The ATC allocates funds to each of these
organizations, but as of yet, none have been
given the go-ahead to pay their student employ-
ees. ATC member Brandon Carroll ’06 ex-
presses his concern for the need for control over
the use of ATC funding.

“Times change, but I do not think it would be
wise to throw open those floodgates without
making clear in written form the circumstances
where paying would be permitted, or at least
fundamental principles that ought to guide or-
ganizations and the ATC’s i alae says
Carroll.

Carroll also points out that some organiza-
tions, such as the Davidsonian and WALT,
raise a large portion of their own funding, and
thus are not totally dependant on ATC money.

“The Davidsonian will bring in revenue to
cover 71 percent of its cost next year, even
though we planned to begin paying staff writ-
ers,” says Jeff Larrimore ’04, business manager

of the Davidsonian. ®

“Personally, I feel that the Davidsonian ought
to be able to reward its staff writers, especially
when our costs are decreasing.”

The debate will continue on into next semes-

* ter, afterthe SGA outlines Ms budget foceaeen

school year.

Once the ATC has a clear picture of next
year’s funding, it will likely meet with student
leaders to further discuss the matter.
