Sports jerseys: the latest fad

Davidson students get pretty fired up about
basketball games.

No other sport brings this campus together
like hoops does, and with our men’s team
fighting for first place in the Southern Confer-
ence, Saturday’s game was a big one.

Unfortunately, East Tennessee State dealt
the ’Cats their first home loss of the season
despite the return of everybody’ s favorite three-
point threat, Peter Anderer.

Davidson fans weren’t afraid to blame the
loss on the officiating, though, as students
“booed” the refs for what seemed like the
entire game and school president Bobby Vagt
offered his glasses to one official, who appar-
ently forgot his bifocals at home.

Belk Arena was electric in the second half
when Brendan Winters (19 points, 3-for-5
from behind the arc) and crew cut the Bucca-
neer lead to four, encouraging Davidson sup-
porters to reach decibel levels even Ludacris
or John Mayer couldn’t touch.

What impressed (or shocked) me the most,
however, was not so much the play on the
court as the fashion show, so to speak, going
on in the stands.

Never in my life have I seen so many jer-
seys; you would have thought a pick-up game
was slated to begin after the real one ended.

But, the funny thing is, most of these jerseys
aren’texactly found at your local Dick’s Sport-
ing Goods.

To purchase some of the attire I saw on
Saturday night, kids must have to search long
and hard and drop slightly more dough than
they would for your average Shaq replica.

Indeed, one student, an obvious Boston
Celtics fan, was flaunting Paul Pierce’s high
school jersey.

Now, I’m notentirely sure, but odds are that
Inglewood High (Calif.) doesn’t sell these
babies in the school bookstore.

The only vendors for such apparel must be
nearly impossible to find, and the prices must
range from steep to insane.

Adding to his NBA look, this same fan

' sported heavily. gelled hair reminiscent of a

former-Celtic, Rick Fox.

The award for celebrity look-alike, though,
goes to the guy wearing the Steve Nash jersey.

With his long, unkempt hair, the winner
looked almost identical to the Dallas
Maverick’s guard—which, to be honest, was
a little creepy.

Then, of course, there was the legion of
students wearing old-school Davidson jerseys
from back when Lefty Driesell ran the show.

It looked like the JV team was in the stands,
ready to step in should every varsity player
mysteriously come down with an injury.

Don’t be fooled, the whole jersey-wearing
phenomenon isn’t limited to college students.

One report from the Babysitters Club (the
women’s lacrosse team watches young kids
during games to raise money) claimed that a
four-year-old named Jevon proudly wore Ja-
son Kidd’s replica jersey.

You know you’ve really made it in life
when they make clothes bearing your name
that can fit both Big Pun and little Jevon.

Interestingly enough, jerseys from all sports,
not just basketball, were represented on Satur-
day night.

One student, clearly showing his excite-
ment for spring training to begin, marched
around wearing a Sammy Sosa t-shirt.

Another fan, apparently displaying his pas-
sion for football to impress Coach Toop’s 20
or so recruits, was dressed in XXXL Brian
Urlacher threads.

Ialso saw a Manchester United top, athrow-
back Lakers uniform and, my personal favor-
ite, one young woman dressed in a Mia Hamm
jersey.

I’m not sure what exactly compels people to
wear jerseys to athletic contests (maybe they
feel more involved in the game), but it looks as
though the latest fashion is wearing clothes
that, for all intents and purposes, belong in a
gym locker.

And so, while the 3,436 fans in Belk Arena
on Saturday night failed to cheer Davidson on
to victory, most of them sure looked good

trying.

Women’s tennis wins third
Straight; put out Flames

By BRANDON JAcoB
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team extended its win-
ning streak Saturday morning with a shutout
of the Flames of Liberty University.

For the third straight match, the Davidson
doubles team routed their opponents, drop-
ping only two games.

Leading the charge were the Fillnow sisters,
who defeated Liberty’s number one doubles
combination 8-1.

In the number two doubles slot, Meggie
Patterson ’05 made her season debut after
missing the previous two matches in a win-
ning combination with Lindsay Powel ’06, 8-
1.
Completing the sweep in the third doubles
spot were Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah
Borkowski ’05.

This last pairing was the only of the doubles
pairs not to drop a single game to the Flames.

The Wildcats’ winning ways continued into

singles play.

In the top spot, Kelly Fillnow ’05 continued
her dominance of opponents, defeating
Andreea Cotuna in convincing fashion 6-0, 6-
1.

Playing for the first time this season in the
number two slot, Patterson defeated Ana
Gonzalezdorado 6-0, 6-1.

Meghan Fillnow ’05 made a triumphant
move to the number three spot, blanking her
opponent, Clara Gonzalezdorado, 6-0, 6-0.

Powel continued her winning ways by de-
feating Maria Solc, 6-2, 6-0.

Providing depth for the Wildcat line-up,
Katherine Hatch ’04 and Catherine Rainbow
’03, the number 5 and 6 spot holders, both
blanked their opponents 6-0, 6-0.

In the only down note of the young season,
the match scheduled for Monday against High
Point was canceled due to weather.

The team will next take the court against

~ UNC Wilmington in Wilmington this Satur-
. day. :

Sports INFORMATION
Press Release

The 2003 season will be different than that
of 2002.

The Wildcats now have ataste of the Ameri-
can Lacrosse Conference and know what they
néed to do to succeed in a’ very competitive
conference.

The expectations have been raised and the
*Cats are ready to play one of the hardest
schedules in Division I.

Davidson is set to play several top-20 teams
including, North Carolina, Duke, Vanderbilt,
John Hopkins, William & Mary, Penn State
and Ohio State.

With the graduation of four seniors in 2002,
things are going to look a little different on the
field.

Fans and opponents will no longer see the
talented Otto twins who, in 2002, combined
for 46 goals and 11 assists.

The Wildcats will have an array of veterans
and several newcomers to pose as scoring
threats.

On the defensive end, the Wildcats possess
great depth and have one of Davidson’s best
goalies in the cage.

Coach Schwartz will be looking to the se-
niors to be leaders on the field. -

“Tam very excited about this year’s cap-
tains; they add leadership, drive and disci-
pline to the 2003 squad.

“Co-captains Emily Rice and Becca
McDevitt will be anchoring the defense while
Loren Seaton and Allison Matlack will be
helping to lead the attack to many scoring
opportunities.

“McDevitt will be seen on the attack as
well, as she is training to run the midfield in
her final season as a Wildcat.

“Becca’s quick moves and power can adda
new edge to the offensive unit.”

On attack in 2002, Seaton led the team in
assists with 16 and was second in goals with
22.

Junior Becca Nussbaum is expected to be
back in the cage again, looking to add to her
long list of achievements.

As a freshman she broke Davidson records

“into new season at tN. Carolina

for single-season minutes played and single-
season saves.

Junior Lauren Williams will be back in the
midfield helping the Wildcats’ transition game
along with sophomores Whitney Diefendorf
and Lindsay Frank.

Sophomore Anna Wolfgang will also be
running the midfield this year with a concen-
tration on defense.

“Many of our players are turning into
midfielders, making them versatile on the
field,” Schwartz said.

“Our number of scoring threats has increased
immensely; we are very excited to see what
happens.”

Sophomores Millie McKeachie and Bran-
don Jacob will also be scoring threats for the

‘Cats.

McKeachie is much stronger and more con-
fident than a season ago, while Jacob’s speed
and ability will help her get free from any
defender.

Sophomores Tess Leppert, Heather Green,
Molly Pickall and Catherine Chapin will be
looking for more time on the defensive end.

“We have seven freshmen on the team who
add a creative dimension to the game that help
us become more of an offensive threat,”
Schwartz boasted.

Eloise Grose will be a large contributor on
the attacking end, while Melissa Gilbert will
be running the midfield.

High school All-Americans Kiften Stephens
and Abby Mead will be putting their time in on
the offensive end of the field, while Erin Mor-
ris and Katherine Swain will be found on
defense along with freshman goalie Leslie
Smith.

The Davidson Wildcats may look a little
young with only fours seniors and two juniors,
but they know what they want and have been
working hard to achieve their goals.

The 2003 season opener was canceled on
Monday due to weather.

On Sunday the Wildcats will travel to Chapel
Hill to face North Carolina.

The Wildcats then play four games on the
turf field against St. Bonaventure, conference
foe Penn State, Columbia and George Wash-
ington.

stlers ond season with

loss, prepare » for scents

VMI the 6-4 vietory

