5
Study Abroad Spotlight

The two worst things you can eat: croissants and croissan Ss

By KATHERINE BAIRD, ANNIE GUILL, & ELYssA
TARDIF
Special Contributors

Our mothers told us we would be losing
weight in France during our year abroad by
not having the convenience of a car, because
everyone knows that Europeans walk a lot.
Our mothers didn’t realize that we would
indeed be walking... walking to get food, that
is. France. A country diverse in its plethora of
architectural styles, flora, as well as fauna,
and its myriad historical events often immor-
talized in classic French literature. The aspect
we most embrace, however, is the cuisine.

Whether we get the munchies while wait-
ing in line at the Internet cafe, or while
consoling ourselves after opening an inbox
full of junk mail and void of loving email
from friends back home, France has the num-
ber one remedy for turning that frown upside-
down.

While Tours is a hopping little ville, week-
ends are best spent exploring the various
regional food options. Par exemple, while
traveling in Northeastern France, a quick stop
in Strasbourg can lead to a full tummy of
pretzel-style beignets. What is a beignet, you
ask? Think Krispy Kreme without a hole,
plunged in sugary delight.

Moving westward to Normandy, it’s cus-
tomary to start and finish a meal with a
member of the crepe family. First up is the
galette, simply a wheat-style crepe (surpris-
ingly healthy). To counterbalance the salti-

FREE

Regularly $15.00

(Applies to most vehicles. Expires 7/15/03)

$15 OFF
AVC System Clock

Check pressures and visually inspect
belts, hoses & connections.
(Refrigerant not included)

Regularly $39.95

a2 SS SSS SS SSS SSS SS PS SSS SSS ee

(Applies to most vehicles. Expires 7/15/03)

$20 OFF
fehl

pon to most voices Expres 7/1813)

Rae Gee Tee TS See od

-

Brake hspectin & Ire Rotation!

beeweeee see

ae meee ee eee eee ee eee bee eee eee ee ee ee eee

ness of the galette, the Normans propose a
vast array of crepe fillings ranging from pow-
dered sugar to Nutella.

While it’s true that seeing the legendary
monuments of Paris for the first time can be
thrilling, the experience will only be height-
ened with a warm, buttery croissant by your
side. Picture us lounging in the garden be-
hind Notre Dame, mesmerized by the intrica-

_

www.paris.org
France: Home of thrilling cultural
monuments...

idea Savings.

FREE
Batiry & Cy Spt Cah

We will test your battery and alternator
and give you a print out of the results!
Don't get stranded with a dead battery!

Regularly $20.00

(Applies to most vehicles. Expires 7/15/03)

$ 15 OFF

Using specialized equipment, our technicians will
install a safe and effective cleaner to suspend
harmful varnish and sludge from the transmission
valve body, torque converter & lines. Install new
high-tech fluid with conditioners.

Regularly $89.95
Recommended every 30k/annually

(Applies to most vehicles. Expires 7/15/03)

eee ees es es es ces es eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

(90 6s ee ee

cies of the flying buttresses, meticulously
avoiding the smallest wasted drop of Paris’.
finest ice cream.

Home again, home again: Tours, France.
Population: 250,000. Increase of city’s food
consumption since fall of 2002: 300%.
(Author’s note: this corresponds in no way to
the arrival of the Davidson JYA program in
France.) Situation: Sunday afternoon. You’ re
hungry. You’re in France. The streets are
deserted, except, wait...in the distance, you
see a yellow awning. Yellow, normally sig-
naling caution, today means “Allez, allez,
allez!”’ Mie Caline. A gourmand’s paradise
(www.lamiecaline.com). Shelf after shelf of
almond and chocolate croissants, chocolate-
dipped meringue, fruit tarts galore, and
mouth- watering chocolate chip cookies
(read: palm-sized patties of unbaked cookie
dough).

Butif you thought that Mie Caline couldn’t
get any more delectable, wait; they have
sales! Here’s how it works: when the cookies
happen to be on sale (which occurs every
other day), you can purchase 3 cookies for
the low, low price of 1E50 (please be sure to
note how the number of authors just happens
to correspond to the number of cookies). No
matter what day of the week, when you walk
by and they’re on sale, you just can’t say no.
Have no fear, however; even when there is no
sale, we still partake in the cookie-eating fun:
after all, you only actually save 0.08E on sale
days. (In other words, we are three American
cookie-consuming machines, and proud of

~

tires » wheels = auto repair

Traveling home for summer?
Taking a road trip?

We have great deals to help keep you & your
passengers safe - without spending your savings!

Cornelius - 19141 W. Catawba Ave.
704-896-8473
Mooresville - 278 W. Plaza Dr.
704-662-0049

www.arlafoods.dk
..and galettes.
it).

Although we hate to admit it, our time in
France is drawing to an end. Now that we
think about it, why are we wasting time writ-
ing this article when we have not yet had to
resort to wearing leggings, since our jeans
surprisingly still fit- if by “fit” you mean
having to lie down on the bed and suck in
every ounce of air you-have just to get that
button buttoned (while of course screaming
“Vive la France!’’).

About the authors: Katherine Baird is a
junior at Davidson. Annie Guill and Elyssa
Tardif are students enrolled in Wheaton
College and Bates College, respectively.

GEE am an ———— ee

:

1545 W. Trade St 8040 N. | St 702 E. Main-St. 851 Concord N.
704-375-5758. 704.549 8508" 704-735-8204 704 785-0080
wuww.griffinbrothers.com Family Owned, Customer Driven!

