THE DavipsoniAN

Arts & LIVING

On North American tour,
dancer stops at Davidson

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

Classical Indian dance is an art form evok-
ing many contradictions which the dancer must
not learn to balance, but elucidate to her audi-

ence. The dancer must epitomize both grace

and power, suggest sensuality and fear, and
perform with both flexibility and rigidity of
body movements.

Rather than become entangled in the many
challenges she faces, Padma Vibhushan Sonal
Mansingh has instead taken on another diffi-

Mansingh, one of India’s best
dancers, performed yesterday

cult task: uniting tradition and modernity.

Mansingh has said, “A dancer is not just a
dancer. She is part of this environment. She
does not exist in a vacuum. Society and its
happenings have an impact on all individuals,
specially artistes. If an art form does not reflect
the existing milieu, it stagnates.”

Through her powerful performances,
Mansingh introduces a radical concept to an
ancient art form of India. She explores con-
temporary issues such as gender and the envi-
ronment through Odissi, the dance style of the
state of Orissa in eastern India. Her choreogra-
phy is lauded worldwide and her work as a
dancer, social activist, teacher, and scholar have
earned her the high honor of “Padma

- Vibhushan,” an award given to artists by the

president of India.

Last night’s poignant performance of “Mary
Magdalene” offered the audience a stunning
example of Mansingh’s abilities as a contem-
porary Odissi dancer. Accompanied by the beat
of a Sarod, the wavering voice of a singer, and
the beat of an Indian drum, she told the redemp-
tion story of Mary Magdalene. Her ability to
tell the biblical episode through a traditionally
Hindu art form reveals much about Mansingh’s
character.

By crossing cultural boundaries, Mansingh
alludes to her hopes for more global under-
standing and awareness. Dancing since 1964,
Mansingh has sought to educate others about
the importance of diversity and mutual friend-
ship. To further this cause, Mansingh is cur-
rently touring in North America.

Mansingh’s abilities as a dancer and elo-
quenca\as a social activist have made her a
cherished figure in India and around the world.
In many senses, Mansingh’s greatest feat has
been overcoming the challenge of retaining
culture in a changing world. Through dance,
Mansingh successfully keeps alive the Odissi
dance form, dating back to the second century
B.C., without ignoring issues of modernity and
global change.

What Do You Think?

What does first night down mean to you?

“Absolutely nothing, except for an in-
creased chance of drunks on my hall
disturbing my sleep.”

“Freshmen going crazy.”

“Tt means life.”

“T just think of all the ambulances...”

N

Ryan Clark ’07

Dan Coslett ’05
~ Ida Bastiaens

07

Katherine Culp ’05

B.R.M.C. cops an attitude

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts and Living Editor

If you find the idea of danger for danger’s
sake thrilling—well then, do I have a barid for
you. They’ rea guitar-bass-drums trio from San
Franciscocalled Black Rebel Motorcycle Club,
and on their best days they despise the whole
rotten world-and everyone in it. “Stop,” the
opening salvo from their sophomore album
“Take Them On, On Your Own,” fires off these
first lines as a warning to anyone who has
mistakenly turned to B.R.M.C. for compassion
and emotional nuance: “We don’t like you/
We just want to try you.”

Believe me, they’re not kidding. But for
listeners who expect nothing more from rock
music than nasty, fuzzed out riffs played by
men who probably sleep in their leather jack-
ets—in other words, pure, give-authority-the-
finger rock’n’ roll attitude—these words will
seem more like acome-on than a turnoff. “Take
Them On, On Your Own” unfolds as an aim-
less rebel’s ideal of rock, full of darkness and
fear and an “T” lashing out against a soul-suck-
ing world, yet devoid of references to any spe-
cific circumstances that could produce the kind
of alienation evident in B.R.M.C.’s lyrics and
music.

Movie. Review —
Ozon’s ‘Pool’

By Derek Lou
Arts and Living Editor

“Swimming Pool” has three things going for
it: the great Charlotte Rampling and Ludivine
Sagnier’s breasts. Rampling gives quite the
performance; Sagnier has quite the bosom. So
perfect are her breasts that their appeal radi-
ates across the sexuality spectrum. Director
Francois Ozon wisely gives them plenty of
screen time.

Rampling plays Sarah Morton, a mystery
writer whose demeanor reflects her hometown
of London. She is gray, jaded, and grumpy,
but there’s an undeniable appeal. If people
could rain, Sarah would. Perceptively, her pub-
lisher (Charles Dance) sends her to his French
villa for a change of scenery while she writes
her newest novel.

At the villa the publisher’s daughter, Julie
(Sagnier), arrives unexpectedly, much to
Sarah’s chagrin. Julie, who appears to be in
her late teens or early twenties, comes home

_ every night with a different lover, and their sex
is athletic, very loud, and hard for Sarah to miss..

Naturally, the two women clash. Their jour-
ney from tension to friendship makes “Swim-
ming Pool” a joy to
watch. The turning point
is an extraordinary scene
in which Julie, Sarah, and
the town hunk share a
marijuana cigarette.
What transpires is an’
entrancing character
study, and the best scene
in any movie from this
summer. .

However, after this
scene, “Swimming Pool”
descends into thriller ter-

ritory. As Julie becomes a =a
ch Sagnier and

ainplitia: partners in chime

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003 6

The song “Generation” exemplifies the de-
tached paranoia that B.R.M.C. evoke so well.
Over a riff drenched in distortion, reverb, and
subtle wah-wah effects, vocalists Peter Hayes
and Robert Turner sing in their jaded mono-
tone, “I’ve had a realization/ No one really lis-
tens nothing’s really there/ I’ m choosing sides/
I’m keeping up with you and your invasion
eyes/ You got the world inacoma/ You put the
knife in our back and no one even cares.”
Someone has been keeping B.R.M.C. and the
rest of us down, and the band isn’t going to
take it anymore. They’ re taking sides and fight-
ing back.

Granted, we don’t know whom they’ re fight-
ing against. More and more that seems to be
the case in contemporary rock music. Lyrics
refer to a vocabulary of rebellion that has ac-
cumulated over nearly fifty years of rock mu-
sic, yet often they do nothing more than evoke
an atmosphere of menace that has no apparent
relation to existing power structures. The music
follows this pattern as well, as guitarists Hayes
and Turner crank out riffs that evoke clichEs
from the blues, the Velvet Underground, and
British psychedelia. They don’t bother to make
their music signify anything beyond alluring,
purposeless revolt.

Directed by: Francois Ozon

Written by: Ozon

Starring: Charlotte Rampling,
Ludivine Sagnier

Running time: 102 minutes

MPAA rating: R

Sarah’s muse and fascination, the writer dis-.
covers jealousy, blood, misplaced panties, and
a dead body. The two women conspire to con-
ceal the crime, and Ozon’s script effortlessly
weaves humor and bravura into the tension and
violence that defines the genre.

The finale of “Swimming Pool” takes place
backin London. Sarah delivers her manuscript,
and ina few brief shots, withno dialogue, Ozon
redefines his entire film. I left the theater
puzzled and still am unsure of what the last
minutes imply. Even without a clear under-
standing, I recommend “Swimming Pool” for
no other reason than to see Rampling at her
best. She has a fascinating quality that few other
actresses (I can think only of Cate Blanchett
and Vanessa Redgrave in the late 1960s) pos-
ses. “Swimming Pool” is now playing at The

_ Manor.

