bounces k back with

weekend sweep of App. State

By Jerr Davis
Staff Writer

The Davidson baseball team (9-13, 4-10)
took a giant leap in its ascent out of the
Southern Conference cellar this weekend with
three wins over Appalachian State (6-17, 1-8).

The? Cats triumphed 5-4 and 7-6 ina double-
header on Saturday and followed with a 5-2
victory on Sunday.

Currently on a four game conference win
streak, the ’Cats stand at ninth in the league,
ahead of both App State and Wofford.

In game one of the doubleheader, the Moun-
taineers jumped out to a 3-0 lead after four and
a half innings.

In the bottom of the fifth, Eli Benefield ’05
ignited the comeback when he singled home
Justin Hartanov ’05.

Michael Muniz ’05 cranked a solo shot in
the sixth to bring the team within one, and
Benefield came up big again in the seventh
with a double that scored Hartanov and D.J.
Dailey ’03.

Benefield then scored an unearned run to
cap the offensive sting.

Starter Derrick Wolpert ’03 pitched four
and one third innings, allowing seven hits and
three runs while striking out three.

Jordan Case ’03, who came on in the fifth,
collected the, win surrendering no runs and
only three hits.

“Our pitching was excellent this weekend,”
said Coach Cooke. “It’s much easier to play
when your pitchers can keep you in the game.
I felt the pitchers did that and allowed us to
come away with the three wins.”

The latter of the doubleheader saw the ’Cats
once again come from behind to pull out the
win.

Dailey hit atwo-run home run in the sixth to
tie the game at five.

After giving up arun in the seventh, Erskine
Wells’’03 held the Mountaineers scoreless in
the final two innings.

In the bottom of the ninth, Sam Navarro '05
singled in the tying and winning runs to end
the game.

Wells received the win, scattering three hits
in three scoreless innings while striking out
two and giving up one walk.

“We played well this weekend and finished

off the games. Last weekend with Wofford, -

we played well but came up short twice,” said
Wells.

In the final game of the weekend on Sunday,
the ’Cats had to start the game without
Benefield, who broke his pinky on diving into
third on Saturday.

Ronnie Shore ’06 started at second in place
of Benefield.

The ’Cats waited till the seventh inning to
utilize their half of the scoreboard.

Shore notched his first career hit with a
single to center that loaded the bases.

After the ’Cats tallied two runs, Navarro
came to the plate with the bases loaded.

“T just tried to stay calm and put the bat to the
ball,” explained Navarro.

In pursuit to put the bat to the ball, Navarro
knocked a fly ball over the left fielder, clearing
the bases.

“Sam gets clutch hits plain and simple,”
stated Coach Cooke. “And this weekend he
delivered when we need him.”

Navarro finished the weekend with four hits
and five RBI’s.

Commented Coach Cooke on the weekend,
“T was very pleased with the play this week-
end. I thought the bullpen was tremendous.
Akin, Case, Erskine and the rest of the guys
really stepped up. With the way we are play-
ing, I’m excited to get back at it and see if we
can continue to get results.”

With little break, the "Cats play Wake For-
est at home on Wednesday at 6 p.m. and then
travel to College of Charleston for a three-
game conference series.

Game times are set for 7 p.m. on Friday, 6
p.m. on Saturday, and 1 p.m. on Sunday.

Wildcats will celebrate first
national student-athlete day

-By Jimmy SwANSBROUGH
Special Contributor

Students at Davidson wear many hats for
their many activities, but on Friday you’ll see
athletes doffing their caps and donning shirts.
The student-athletes on campus will celebrate
the college’s first recognition of National Stu-
dent-Athlete Day with T-shirts commemorat-
ing the event and promoting awareness of
athletes’ impact in the community.

The Student Athletic Advisory Council
(SAAC) decided to adopt National Student-
Athlete Day (NSAD) on campus earlier in the
spring semester. The inaugural year will start
small with T-shirts, fliers, and other media to
promote awareness of student-athletes at the
college. Nicole Tonelli ’04 and Greg
Schernecke ’03, co-chairs of the SAAC, said
future celebrations could go in any number of
directions.

“This year we wanted to ensure that all
student-athletes would be recognized and could
participate in the celebration if they wished,”
Tonelli said.

NSAD was created in April 1987 by the
National Consortium for Academics and Sports
and Northeastern University’s Center for the
Study of Sport in Society as an endeavor to
increase the positive virtues of sport and to
acknowledge the accomplishments of student-
athletes in the classroom, on the playing field,
and in their communities.

NSAD also honors the parents, teachers,
coaches, and administrators who nurture stu-
dent-athletes in all realms of life and who use

sport as a vehicle to make positive social

changes across the nation.

What began as the recognition of a small
group in 1987: exploded in 1994 when the
National Collegiate Athletics Association
(NCAA) became involved with the celebratory
day, and by 2002 over 305,000 student-ath-
letes were recognized nationwide.

The SAAC at Davidson heard about NSAD
just this year and quickly made plans to cel-
ebrate the day.

Numerous colleges and universities across
the country take part in the annual celebration,
and NSAD is a way for student-athletes to

‘unite and recognize one another’s accom-

plishments.

Director of Athletics Jim Murphy said, “I
firmly believe Davidson represents the ideal
in college athletics and think the success of
Davidson’s students, both in competition and
after graduation, proves that.”

This success is embodied in the Barrett-
Bonner Award that Davidson has received in
each of the 10 years it has been presented.

The award is conferred by the Southern -

Conference to the member school with the
highest percentage of athletes on the league’s
academic honor roll for student-athletes who
achieve at least a 3.0 grade point average.
Tonelli and Schernecke feel this determina-
tion to. succeed should be lauded. “People
question the value of athletics frequently, but

those people can never understand how sports

can bring people together and build great
bonds, while simultaneously challenging ev-
ery aspect of your mental and physical capac-
ity making you more aware of who you are,”
Scherneke said.

Men’s tennis finishes week strong

with win over SoCon rival UNCG

By WEBSTER HARRISON
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team got off to a rocky

' start this past week but ended it with a triumph

over UNC Greensboro.

Last Monday, the Wildcats faced a tough
Appalachian State team, one that they nar-
rowly lost to in the fall, 4-3.

At the first two spots, the Wildcats doubles
teams got behind early, and even valiant come-
backs could not stop the Mountaineers from
taking the doubles point.

The duo of Rob Haywood ’04 and Donald
Miles ’05 lost 8-6, as did the team of Jonathan
Britt ’04 and Rob Gould ’04. At the third
position, Geoffrey Mullen ’03 and Brian
Stonestreet ’04 defeated their opponents eas-
ily with a score of 8-3.

The Mountaineers captured the top four
singles contests to take the point. Haywood
lost a close one in three sets, while Miles,
Stonestreet, and Britt all lost in straight sets. In
the most exciting match of the day, Mullen
defeated Andrew Taylor of ASU ina third set
tiebreaker, winning 6-4, 3-6, 7-6(4).

After the match, Mullen commented, “I
played my heart out and I wish that I could
have somehow helped the team even more.
We didn’t play our best tennis today, but ASU
is definitely beatable.”

At number six, Russ Burns ’05 continued
his impressive run since losing a couple of
matches earlier this season. He wiped out
Jacob Stapleton 6-3, 6-3, picking up his ninth
win of the season.

In their second match of the week, the
Wildcats fell to East Tennessee State Univer-
sity in a match that was much closer than the
score indicated. Starting off on a torrid pace,
the Wildcats quickly won the doubles point,
with number one and number two triumphing
over the Bucs.

Haywood and Miles won 8-5, and Britt and
Gould cruised at the number two spot, earning
an 8-3 victory. At number three, Mullen and
Stonestreet played well but could not finish
off the strong Bucs team, falling 8-5.

In contrast to their lackluster doubles, the
Bucs played extremely well in singles, taking
the top five matches. Marcos Pavlovich beat
Haywood in a hard fought match, winning 6-
4; 7-5. Miles fell 6-4, 6-4 to Alejandro Salazar,
while Stonestreet lost consecutive matches for
the first time.all season, losing, 6-1, 6-4.

Said Stonestreet, “I played one of my better
matches, but Iglesias was just too tough from
the baseline.”

At the number four and five spots, the
matches could have gone either way, but luck
was on the side of the Bucs. Both Britt and
Mullen lost close three-setters to the Bucs in
matches that could have changed the outcome
of the score.

0 by Eron Earley-Thiele
A Wildcat serves to an opponent.

Said Britt, “I just couldn’t pull a solid string
of points together in the last couple of games,
and that lack of consistency really hurt my
game.”

At number six, Burns won his seventh con-
secutive match (the longest of any Wildcat
member this year), narrowly beating his oppo-
nent 10-8 in a third set tiebreaker.

This close loss put the Wildcats at 2-2 in the
conference and may have hurt their chances at
getting one of the top three seeds in the tour-
nament.

Although they had lost two close matches
this week, the Wildcats put on their game face
and trounced UNCG on Sunday, 6-1.

The Spartans won the doubles point, win-
ning at the number one and three spots, al-
though many team members felt that Davidson
should have won that point. Haywood and
Miles lost an agonizingly close match, 9-8 (4),
and just could not get any calls to go their way
in the tiebreaker. Mullen and Stonestreet also
played well but fell 8-4. At number two, Britt
and Gould had no problems with their oppo-
nents, winning easily, 8-3.

Singles was another matter, with only one
match going into three sets. At number one,
Haywood overpowered Julio Moran 6-3, 6-0,
while Miles won convincingly at number two
6-3, 6-2. Stonestreet got back in the win col-
umn, defeating Pieter Visser 6-3, 6-2, and
Britt defeated Rohan Kranti 6-3, 3-6, 6-0 in the
“closest” match of the day.

At five, Mullen played an even game and
crushed his opponent 6-1, 6-1. In the fastest
match of the day, Burns blew by Eric Johnson
in thirty minutes without losing a single game.

The win put the Wildcats record at 10-6, 3-
2 in conference play. They face rival UNC-
Charlotte on Wednesday, April 3, at Covington
Courts at 2:30 p.m.

Iphia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
_America’s greatest cities.
arn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
: Academic Credits transfer!

