9 THe Daviwsonian

PERSPECTIVES |

Can’t get no satisfaction from dating?

By Nicu Carson WITH Kaistin HicBEE
‘Staff Columnist & Guest Columnist

Fine. I admit it. I wrote about fraternities and eating-houses
because my dating life sucks. C’mon though, it was a good
argument: too much sexism in the system, too little sex in the
dorm room. Can I say that in

The Davidsonian?

I don’t feel noticed at Davidson.

Hey, typeA girl, WHAT DOIHAVETODOTO DISTRACT
YOU FROM YOUR HOMEWORK?

“So many girls: artistic, athletic, political, poetic.

And me, doing circles at frat parties. Idon’t know any of you!

“Hey,”

“Um, hi.”

“Aren’t you in my class?”

“No.”

“Oh.”

But youwere in my class! Don’t remember? Two years ago,
Spanish 102, you always wore that....

Creepy.

Now I have your AIM screen name. That’s going well:

DCSENIORSO!: hey

TypeAgurl: Um, hi.

TypeAgurl: How’d you get my screen name?

DCSENIORSO1: off my roommate’s computer...

Now that’s some eGame.

And then it came to me, it being an email from my friend,
Kristen Higbee (yes; that Kristen Higbee). Apparently, dating
sucks for them too! She wrote:

Are we really as overlooked as we feel we are?

Ina student body of 1,600+ why is it that there are a dispro-
portionate amount of intelligent, beautiful, and well-kept women
who have never even been asked out? I find it difficult to Asten
to my friends talk about how they have been hurt, used or mis-

treated by men.at this school.

What are these amazing women doing so wrong that they
cannot be treated with unpapect or get the appreciation they de-
serve?

My answer: it’ s not u us women.

In a student body of 1,600+ why is it
that adisproportionateamound of women
have never been asked out?

A disproportionate amount of boys on this campus wake up
every morning, throw on whatever article of clothing is on the
floor, put a baseball hat over their greasy coifs and we're sup-
posed to swoon?! believe it was Cher who said it best, “as if!”

Take this as you will, but in the “real” world it is not like this
fellas. This percentage of superb women will only exponen-
tially decrease as your lives go on.

My point? Ladies, buck up, you’re gorgeous enough, you're
interesting enough: it’s not you. It’s them.

They are not our arch-enemies, but if they
are not providing the respect, appreciation
and attention you deserve, then repeat after
me: Step UP or Step OUT of the way!

Where’s up? I’m steppin’! I’m steppin’!

Kristen’s got a point, but the real root of
the problem eludes her. You know the “old
well” behind Eu and Phi halls? You know
how supposedly, if a Davidsonian drinks
from that fountain, s/he will marry another
Davidson student?

Well wake up Physical Plant, because like a lot of us here at
Davidson, the fountain is getting rusty. It’s just not working. I
know the feeling.

NICHOLAS

CARLSO

Capitalism just exports American jobs

- By Ricarpo AMPUDIA
Staff Columnist

Capitalism is at crisis: overproduction in Japan and Germany,
negative growth in American output, and massive unemploy-
ment hitting the world’s most powerful markets are signs that
the global power structure is volatile.

Bourgeois economists blame this on the“war on terrorism”
and unstable international relations, but many others suspect
that these type of economists are confusing the cause with the
effect: the root cause lies in the premise of the rule of capital—
which, as we saw, often comes disguised under the emblem of
“free trade.”

Free trade no longer affects only Third
World nations: the entire middle class
is now becoming affected as well.

But free trade no longer affects only Third World nations: the
entire middle class—the majority of citizens of the First World—
is now becoming affected as well: from telephone receptionists
to financial analysts.

How? Eventually, as companies find it more difficult to com-
pete in American markets —largely due to the monopolization
effect (e.g. Walmart) within many industries, a long-run result
of—“fair competition”—they find it necessary to cut expenses
on one of its cost-determining components of production: la-
bor.

Anewly popular solution is to replace domestic with foreign
labor, which is up to ten times cheaper and equally effective.
This is known as ‘offshore outsourcing,’ and has intensified
_ after the information boom of the 1990s ended a few years ago.

Some media sources estimate that over 3 million workers
have been laid off as a result to offshore outsourcing and the
trend is increasing dramatically.

Accenture, AOL, Delta Airlines, Dell, General Electric, Sun
Microsystems, Bank of America, and American Express are
merely a few examples of companies that have adopted this
practice, immediately firing domestic workers massively after
replacing them with workers from countries that offer, on their
knees, union-free, uninsured, and cheap labor, such as India,
China, and Mexico.

Several companies even had American workers travel over-
seas to train foreign labor immediately before the company
would fire them. Some groups like McKinsey, however, de-
fend offshore outsourcing by arguing that it helps American
firms stay afloat and thus keep the American economy going.

But this is clearly false: unemployment levels have risen
dramatically, which lowers expendable income, thus lowering
quantity demanded as well as production levels.

The result: domestic output decreases and the income gap
between working and upper-class individuals widens. The only
ones who benefit are the profit-earners while the working class
pays.

In fact, America and the rest of the First World have been thus
far living in a fantasy: cheap raw materials and industrial goods
from abroad and high-paying jobs left for the lucky citizens of
the United States, Japan, and Western Europe.

But the bubble is now only beginning to burst: as the ficti-
tious “middle class” becomes bumped down to filthy minimum
wage in this and other First World countries, labor groups have
immediately responded and called for greater class conscience.
They realize that a serious solution is unlikely to come from
corporate-funded Washington; instead, itis only likely tocome
as a result of pressure put on the private sector by organized
labor.

Vandalism on campus is out of control

By Vic Linpsay
Guest Columnist

Our Web site proclaims that Davidson is “a trusting
community...where honor and respect form the core of your
relationships with others.” That honor and respect can disap-
pear when alcohol gets involved.

Sunday night, over fall break, three male students smashed
two of my friend’s plastic lawn chairs against a brick pillar.

After intentionally breaking the two chairs, wise went to work

on a lamppost.
Campus security is still investigating the matter, and sus-

pects that one person may have been involved in multiple acts
of vandalism recently. -

A friend of the vandals promised they would pay for the
damaged chairs, but my friend has not yet been reimbursed.
She insists the chairs are not important, but that her fellow stu-

dents’ utter lack of respect is.

If you believe that the stories you read about are a fluke, or
the actions of visitors, it’s time for a wake-up call. These events
are no accident, and Davidson students are the perpetrators. It
is time we stopped blaming others and took a good look in the
mirror.

Small minds and alcohol can have ae consequences,
and large amounts of alcohol quickly turn large minds small.

The Code of Responsibility and the Honor Code remain too
far out of sync. In the past three weeks, almost $3000 in dam-
ages has been reported in The Davidsonian, on top of what wal

appear this week.

The College must stand firm on its principles, and refuse to
accept drunkenness as an excuse for inappropriate actions. Until
we punish vandalism on campus the same way we punish cheat-
ing, this behavior will not stop.

As Brynn Welch said: “Shape up or ship out.”

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003

Minorities should
take advantage of
affirmative action

Noone has ever accused me of supporting a socialist agenda.
In fact, I’ ve heard the word fascist used to describe my political
beliefs a lot more than socialist. However, there is one form of
government handouts that I am happy to take advantage of:
affirmative action.

Don’t get me wrong, I hate affirmative
action. I think it is silly to evaluate people
solely based on the color of their skin in
any situation.

For example, a rich Hispanic girl is go-
ing to have more in common with a rich
white girl than a poor Hispanic girl.

The same principle applies to black
people, too. I do not doubt that upper class

MIKE GALDO

life, I’ ve seen it happen. But, a person
any race growing up in an upper class fam-
ily faces less adversity than a poor white kid raised in a West
Virginia trailer park.

No matter how foolish the system may be, I fully exploit it.

I have come to realize that limousine liberals everywhere
either can’t get over their own self-righteous guilt at being a bit
racist themselves, or they won’t face the fact that specific indi-
viduals of every race just don’t have what it takes to succeed.
Their continued support means that affirmative action in some
form will never die on its own.

The only way minorities will ever be
viewed as equals is for us to manipulate
the system by turning preferential treat-
ment into a pathway for success.

I myself check the Hispanic box on school applications, job
applications, etc. If it matters so much to those in power where
my family came from I have no problem informing them.

Moreover, if they want to give me preferential treatment over
an upper class white kid, then fine, I'll take a boost up. I may
surprise them when I show up at law school and don’t act like
Pacino in Scarface, but that’s their own fault for grouping all
Hispanics together.

There will come a day, and it will be soon based on popula-
tion growth, when white people will look around the halls of
power and find it full of brown and black faces.

Hispanics and blacks are no less intelligent or resdurceful
than white people. If you keep giving us an advantage then
pretty soon we will be over-represented in society.

If the playing field is not level to begin with then I am.all for
equalizing things. However, equal opportunity is all anyone
deserves. If minorities can’t excel with an equal opportunity
then we do not deserve our piece of the pie.

Quality schools are looking high and low for more minority
students. I support the idea of the Davidson student body better
representing American cultural life—more lower class whites,
blacks, Hispanics, Jews, Indians, Arabs, Aleutian Islanders, etc.
Something is wrong if that doesn’t happen naturally.

The fact that we are under-represented may point to flaws in

black kids encounter racism during their -

ae . . ee . a
our own communities, not to admissions policies at major

schools.

If those shortcomings are fixed, and they can be, there is no
reason why minorities can’t abolish affirmative action the
quickest way I can think of: by abusing it.

Keep checking those racial boxes; keep using every extra
bonus those in charge grant us.

The only way minorities will ever be truly viewed as equals,
and as a result, cause the end of affirmative action, is for us to
manipulate the system by turning preferential treatment into a
pathway to easy success.

The idea of an equal chance at success should be synony-
mous with the term “American citizen.” That can only happen
when we have a meritocracy, not a system that favors one group
over another.

