10 THE DavipsoniAN

Cowie notches 200th victory |

By Witson McCrory
Staff Writer

The 2003 campaign has been a tough one
for the volleyball squad, as the team has
struggled mightily on the road and been un-
able to close out numerous close matches
throughout the year. The ‘Cats have played
well against the bottom-feeders of the South-
ern Conference, feasting on squads such as
The Citadel, UNC Greensboro, and Wofford,
but have faltered in matches against teams
with winning records. In fact, the Wildcats
haven’t beaten a team with a winning record in

over two months, despite being close in nu- ©

merous chances.

This weekend represented the chance to
buck that dubious trend, as the Wildcats opened
their final home stand of year against Southern
Conference-leading Georgia Southérn in
search of head coach Tim Cowie’s 200th ca-
reer win. The ’Cats made that milestone vic-
tory a goal on Friday night and, according to
Jenny Mills ’07 came into the match very
excited about the possible upset.

That excitement was not translated onto the
court, however, as the Wildcats fell behind
quickly, 15-7, in the opening game of the
match. The ’Cats managed to fight back to
within 19-18, but six defensive errors down
the stretch by Davidson resulted in a 30-21
loss.

“That first game really took us out of it,”
noted Mills after the match. “We beat our-
selves ... We know that they’re a good team,
but we forget that the match is the first to three
games, and that one game doesn’t signify the
entire match.”

The Wildcats appeared to have turned the
comer in the second game, when Davidson
jumped to a 21-15 lead, but were unable to
hold onto that advantage yet again. Georgia
Southern went on to win the game 30-27 on
two late kills and a block. The Eagles then held
Davidson to a meager .089 attack percentage
in the third game to cruise to the 3-0 sweep.

The loss was another example of missed
opportunities for the Wildcats, as it high-
lighted Davidson’ s continued inability to make
the necessary plays to win close matches.

“We can play and be competitive against
some good teams,” stated Mills, “but when we
begin to doubt ourselves, we just can’t finish
the match.”

In the second match of the weekend, the
Wildcats looked to rebound against East Ten-
nessee State, a team that defeated the ’Cats
earlier in the season. The opening three games
were all one-sided, with Davidson winning
the first and third games 30-22 and 30-20 and
ETSU taking the second 30-20. In the pivotal
fourth game, the teams went back and forth to
create a 25-25 tie, but a late push by Davidson
enabled the ‘Cats to pull away for the 30-27
game and match victory.

The victory not only marked a bit of revenge

Open @ 11 a.m,

7 days/wk, - Rain or Shine - Ser Full Menu All Day!

Feros
Lake Norman - Harborside
Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

Jenny Dykstra ’07 tips the ball

for the Wildcats, but also registered for Cowie
his 200th career victory, albeit a day late.

“Tt was unfortunate that we couldn’t get his
200th win against Georgia Southern,” noted
Mills, “but we were all proud of him, and
honored to be a part of that accomplishment.”

Cowie’s 200 wins span a career of over
seven seasons at R.I.T., New York, and
Davidson, where he has amassed a .671 win-
ning percentage.

To close out the weekend, Davidson played
host to Chattanooga in the Wildcats’ final
home match of the season. The match was a
defensive struggle throughout, as neither team
managed an attack percentage above .200 on
the afternoon.

In each of the first two games, Davidson
looked to be in control late, as the ’Cats held

17-12.and 25-22 leads, respectively. In each ©

game, however, the Mocs rallied to pull out
two 30-28 victories, effectively ending the
day for the ’Cats. Davidson came alive in third
game to pull closer to the Mocs, but a 9-1 UTC
rally to open the fourth game would pace
Chattanooga to a 30-24 win and the 3-1 vic-
tory.

The setback was just the latest in a line of
many disappointing losses this season, and it
epitomized the struggles the Wildcats have
experienced this season.

As Mills said after the loss, “That match was
a frustrating one for us. [Chattanooga] came
out favored, but we brought a lot of energy at
the outset because it was Senior Night for
Nicole [Tonelli] and Tisha [Chapman] . . .
When Rachel [Gleed ’06] got injured, though,
we just couldn’t adjust and pull through.”

After the 1-2 weekend at home, the Wild-
cats look to close out the season on a positive
note this week when they travel to Furman and
Wofford, two teams the ’Cats beat earlier in
the season. .

Every Monday
1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)

Every Tuesday
1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Berbalo, Barbeque
(dine-in only)
Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine in only)

SARAOKE NIGHT

EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING

18665 Harborside Dr. - (704)896-9013

’ to Exit 28 -Go W. on

Follow

Catawba to Harborside Dr

to end

SPORTS

RES AE TER OTL TBE EY OER Sa STE, ES LTE TIT TF

anyone,
wards, or centers, which is ‘something
really missed last year.” _

. Continuing with the i impressive, defend, is

fellow guard Puff Summers. Throughout his

three years, Summers has consistently been

one of the hardest working players.

His quickness, strength, and work ethic will
be key this year, and as teammate Matt
McKillop ’06 remarked, “The toughness he

brings to practice every day makes our whole

team better. You hate not having him on your
team in practice because of his defensive in-
tensity, and you know he will never ye less
than 100 percent,”.

The remaining juniors are two af the big
men fighting it out for starting spot honors this
season.

Both 6’8” forwards, southpaw Conor Grace -

and co-captain Logan Kosmalski “can domi-
nate the front court in a variety of ays,” notes

Mic Novemser 12, 2003

Se EAP

e as soon as possible.
‘the women’s team is
undeniably their best all-around player.

At6’0”, Emily Callahan was one of j just two
sophomores in the SoCon last year to earn all-
conference honors. She had seven 20-plus
outings and a career high 33 points, just two
points off the Davidson single-game senting

‘ourtney: Laird’ 04° states,

record.

~ As’ teammate C

“Emily is an incredible shooter. She can make
a shot with a hand in her face without even
looking at the basket, ‘and she also creates
really: well off the dribble.” :

sly so wants be known inh on

Field hockey season ends abruptly

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Traveling to St. Louis for the Norpac Con-
ference tournament, the top-seeded Davidson
field hockey team suffered a season ending
first-round loss to the Southwest Missouri
Bears.

Coming into the tournament with a 4-2
record against conference opponents, the ’Cats
had high hopes for their prospects; however,
they were unable to crack the scoreboard in the
first round and fell 1-0 against Southwest
Missouri.

“We came out really strong and had a pen-
alty corner early on,” said head coach Lisa
Thompson. “We had several shots off the post,
but we couldn’t finish them.”

The Bears managed a goal off the individual
effort of Abbey Rolfe ’05 at the 20-minute
mark. Despite the otherwise solid defense of
the ’Cats, this lone goal was all the Bears
needed. The scoreless ’Cats saw their season

_end at the final whistle.

In aconsolation match the following morn-
ing, the discouraged ‘Cats came out flat and

fell to Pacific 3-0. The match carried no ,

significance as far tournament play went and
brought the *Cats final record to 8-12.
“We.came out flat,” said Thompson, “and
weren’t able to connect with our passes.”
Despite the disappointing conclusion to their
season, the ’Cats enjoyed plenty of recogni-
tion from their conference in a banquet last
Wednesday evening. Indicative of the many
first-time achievements the squad accom-
plished, the Northern Pacific Field Hockey

Conference recognized numerous members
of Davidson’s field hockey squad for indi-
vidual achievements.

Sarah Nolan ’05 picked up East-Division
Defensive Player of the Year for her perfor-
mance in goal this season. Nolan recorded 195
saves this season, which ranked third nation-
ally. Christina Auer ’04 received the Sheryl
Johnson Academic Award due to a combina-
tion of her performance on the field and in the
classroom. The award recognizes a single
player from the Norpac for their academic and
athletic successes.

“One of our biggest goals this season was
getting respect in our conference,” said Auer.
“This was a big step up from last year.”

Davidson also put two players onto the first-
team all-Norpac squad. Captain Kathleen Fenn
’04 and Liz Schoening ’05 both were honored
as members of this select club. A defensive
stopper, Fenn managed two goals along with
two assists to bolster her impressive defensive
contributions to the team. Schoening was the
‘Cats’ go-to girl this season on offense, lead-
ing the team in goals and assists.

“This recognition for our accomplishments
shows that we earned respect from our confer-
ence,” said-Thompson of the fulfillment of
that preseason goal.

While the ’Cats fell short of their own
expectations in the conference tournament,
they did manage an impressive regular season.
Davidson’s first top finish in the Eastern
Norpac division should satisfy players and
coaches until they take the field next season.
The ’Cats will host the conference tournament
in 2004.
