Meet the Candidates for §

{

WHY I WANT TO BE PRESIDENT:
“° What does SGA do?’ That’s a question that
I’m glad to answer; but I hate to hear. The
Student Government is persistently working
to improve Davidson for the students, but we

are only taking baby steps. I would like to the ,

SGA move in a new direction. Student Gov-
ernment should be willing to work harder and
take more risks undertaken original initiatives
that affect more students. In the last term, I’ ve
seen the SGA develop strong skills in working
with the administration to improve the frame-

WHY I WANT TO BE VICE-PRESI-
DENT: “Somewhere between the library,
Patterson Court, Chambers, and the Union, I
have found myself part of a unique commu-
nity. Amid athletics, theatre, hiking trips, art,
religious studies, andcommunity service, each
person can find their niche at Davidson. |
understand that Davidson students find a vari-
ety of different activities and commitments

WHY I WANT TO BE PRESIDENT: I am
running for Union Board president because,
quite frankly, I’ve had it up to here with these
three letter acronym groups, RLO,SGA, UCA,
JSU, and I want to work with a group that isn’t
afraid to use its full name. But seriously, Iam
running, because with the experience that I
have had in working with the Union Board I
get the feeling that accomplishing things is a

Charles Washington ’04

Major: Political Science

Activities:
Yearbook
Intramural Sports
SGA vice-president

work of the institution. We worked to improve
the Honor Code, Lottery, and ATC allocations,
etc. Still, SGA has twenty-five hundred dollars
sitting in its “special projects fund:” the account
that is intended to field original ideas for SGA
initiatives. If elected, I plan to rekindle the spirit
that gave rise to the competitive battle for access
to those funds to finance good ideas. More ideas
mean a greater chance of new programs that
students will care about and a well-rounded
SGA. Students should not have to wonder “what
does SGA do.”

SGA President

“WHY I WANT TO BE PRESIDENT:

“J am running for the position of SGA Presi-
dent because I feel as though the issue of the
importance of “community” is one of the fore-
most issues on campus today, which is why I
plan to put community-building measures at
the top of my campaign platform.

For a school of this size, I don’t think we’re
as close as we should be and I think that more
should be done to improve unity here in the
Davidson College community. This can be

SGA Vice-President

Katharine Hubbard ’05

Major: undeclared

Activities:

Sophomore Class Senator
Freshman Class Senator
Davidson Ambassador
Orientation Team Leader
Connor Eating House

meaningful to them. I hope to promote all of
these through my own niche, which is SGA.

“Davidson is more than a resume builder for
students, as SGA is more than that for me. My
vision of SGA is an association representing all
individuals and organizations. If elected I will
make every effort to ensure that SGA is a forum
through which student concerns from all corners
of campus are addressed.”

Ni

WHY I WANT TOBE VICE-PRESIDENT:
“T am running to maintain bidirectional com-
munication between students and administra-
tion regarding issues relevant to students, and
the Davidson College community. Effective
communication is perhaps the most important
contributor to effective proactive responses to
concerns.

Union Board President —

Adam Sperling ’04
Major: Math

Activities:

Wrestling, SAAC

Jewish Student Union

UCA (Davidson-Cure Autism
Now, Kappa Sigma, Concert
Committee

_ Junior Class President

Freshman Hall Counselor

lot less like pulling teeth. I feel like every one
involved with the Union Board wants to get
things done and they always do it with a smile.
Which is very important in my book. As far as
things that I would like to accomplish should I
get elected, I would like to try to further bring the
campus together. Hence, the name union in
Union Board: Furthermore, it would be great to
continue the current trend of great performing
arts coming to Davidson.

WHY I WANT TOBE PRESIDENT: Since

the opening of the Alvarez College Union, we
have been given the responsibility to ignite our
Union Board program, producing events to
entice a range of Davidson students.

I believe that we have more than exceeded
initial expectations with respect to the actual
events, but there is still a need for increased

Tiffany Hollis ’04

Major: History/ Education in
Secondary Level Education

Activities:

SGA Junior Senator

Bonner Scholar

Big Brother/Big Sister participant
Black Student Coalition Commu-
nity Service Chair

Chair of Committee on Minority
Affairs

done by promoting tolerance and embracing
differences of others and learning from those
differences. .

When we accomplish this goal, then we can go
out as students and citizens of the Davidson
community and make a difference by promoting
asense of unity between the college and the town
and improving community relations between
the two.”

Mare Vinson 705

Majors: English and Sociology

Activities: Independent Senator,
Member, Educational Policy
Committee, Trustee Contact
Committee, Committee on the
Honor Code and Code of Re-
sponsibility,

“T am also running to maintain the SGA’s
record of accomplishment of initiating chal-
lenges to important practices, policies, and
norms that we can improve. Simultaneously, I
am running to continue the SGA’s practice of
evaluating such policies to not only reveal the
weakness that the SGA can work to improve, but
toalso indicate and commend the many strengths
of our college’s systems.”

Elisabeth Smith ’04

Major: English

Activities:

Mentor Faith, Hope and Love
in Charlotte

Future Co-chair of Catholic
Campus Ministry

Connor Eating House

Club Tennis team

publicity.

If you don’t know what is going on, then we
haven’t done our job.

The Union Board thrives on the ingenuity of
its: student volunteers, those impassioned by
attending past events. :

I look forward to cultivating the tradition and
inherent potential of our Davidson community.
