4 | THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

Annual Fund giving rate

Challenge set by anonymous donor met for $100,000

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer
a

Record-breaking alumni participation has
helped Davidson’s Annual Fund reach new
heights. For the fiscal year 2002-2003, the
Annual Fund raised $6.1 million thanks to an
unprecedented 62 percent alumni participation
rate.

The Annual Fund is composed of four com-
ponents: the living endowment, unrestricted
scholarships, Davidson Athletic Foundation,
and Classical 89.9 WDAV. Money from the
annual fund is used in a variety of ways rang-
ing from scholarship funds, athletic resources
and library books, to facility improvements and
faculty salaries.

Because the Annual Fund money is unre-
stricted, the funds can be applied to the college’s
immediate needs, providing even more oppor-
tunities for Davidson students.

Director of the Annual Fund Elizabeth Kiser,
said via e-mail, “Davidson students, who cur-
rently pay full room and board, still do not cover
the entire cost of their education at Davidson.
Alumni gifts to the Annual Fund help close the
gap.”

In addition to the generosity of Davidson
alumni, student callers also play an important
role in the Fund’s growth. Student callers are
responsible for contacting alumni and encour-
aging them to donate money. Aside from mak-
ing telephone calls and handwriting notes, stu-
dent callers maintain the connection between
alumni and current students.

“When you talk to the alumni, you are rep-
resenting the college,” said student caller
Michelle Levin-Crowley ’06. “As a scholar-
ship student, I find it rewarding to talk to the
people who help fund my education. It makes
it more personal.”

According to Campus Media Group,

In particular, one anonymous alumnus this
year invited all alumni to contribute to the
Annual Fund by promising to donate $100,000
if 60 percent of alumni participated. Davidson
graduates rose to the challenge, and in doing
so have drawn the attention of magazines like
“US News & World Report” (see related story,
cover). According to their latest edition,
Davidson ranks second in the country for
alumni giving, trailing Amherst by just 45
donors.

Among other factors like academics, faculty,
and selectivity, alumni giving has contributed
to Davidson’ s ranking as the number seven lib-
eral arts college in the United States. “Donat-

_ ing to the annual fund is considered a measure

of alumni satisfaction to magazines like ‘US
News & World Report.’ It weighs heavily in
their overall rankings,” said Kiser.

Rankings aside, Kiser also attributes the
Annual Fund’s growth to the enthusiasm
Davidson alumni share for their Alma matter.
“Davidson alumni care about Davidson and
recognize that the Annual Fund will help pro-
vide current Davidson students with the
‘Davidson Experience’ that they hold so dear,”
Kiser said.

the average college student
spends $287/month on discretionary items

1600 Davidson Students

x $ 287 Dollars per

month

$459,200

Want Your Share?

Advertise in
The Davidsonian

Endowment declines $10M

ranks College second in nation Returns back in the black following two years of losses

By Rucui TURAKHIA

Staff Writer

After two years of negative annual invest-
ment returns, the returns on Davidson College’s
endowment are turning up. According to R.
Burton Hudson, Director of Investments and
Financial Planning, the value of the endow-
ment was $283,934,019 on June 30. That com-
pares with roughly $292 million in June 2002,
down from an all-time high of $338 million.

“2003 has been a positive year for us,”
Hudson said. “We are outperforming most

other schools. According tothe ranking [bythe ,

National Association of College and Univer-
sity Business Officers] we rank in the top
quartile of schools in terms of endowment re-
turns.”

The endowment decreased in value during
the 2001 and 2002 fiscal years due to stock
market decline, according to Hudson. These
were the first two negative years since 1987.

“The endowment’s current value is almost
twice of what it was in 1995, when I first came
to Davidson in 1995,” said Robert Norfleet,
Director of Investments and Financial Plan-
ning. “At that time, the endowment was worth
roughly $126,000,000. This increase in value
is due to enhanced investment returns through-

American Express Financial
Charlotte Sister Cities
Gaston County Schools
Milliken & Company
Summit Properties

United States Army

The Vangaurd Group

The Career Services Office
is sponsoring a

Career Fair

Come to the fair .. .

Wednesday, September 17
Noon - 3:30 PM —
Alvarez Union Brown Atrium

Participants include

od Teach for America

out the late 90s: the returns have been around
20 percent.” ;

Hudson said, in relation to other schools, “we
look very good.” < \

“Even though our returns are not as high as
they were at one point, ther schools would
enjoy having the returns we do.”

Although other areas for which the endow-
ment money is used for may suffer, the lower
returns will not affect the amount of financial
aid Davidson gives its students.

“We have committed amounts of financial
aid, which aren’t affected by changes in the
endowments value,” said Nancy Cable, Vice
President and Dean of Admissions and Finan-
cial Aid. “If there is a loss, it is made up by
other areas.”

In addition to providing scholarship money,
the endowment is used for a variety of other
things, including funding professorships and
providing operating endowments for the vari-
ous buildings.

The bulk of the endowment’s money comes
from alumni donations, according to Kristin
Bradberry, Vice President of College Rela-
tions, although various foundations and
fundraisers contribute to the endowment as
well.

Charlotte Mecklenburg Police
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
Mayor’s International Cabinet
Peace Corps

United States Navy
Wachovia Securities

NC Blumenthal Performing Arts Center
Davidson College Human Resources
Johns Hopkins University School of Nursing
University of Georgia School of International and Public Affairs
University of South Carolina Moore School of Business
Wake Forest Babcock School fo Business
, Western Carolina Research and Graduate Studies
Winthrop University Graduate Studies

A complete list of participants is available at
<http:/Awww2.davidson.edu/studentlife/cs/cs_careerfair903.asp>

Contact J eff at
(704)894-6743
for details

