Remember those surveys?

Results will soon be released

Honor Code surveys
being tabulated in
preparation for
Re-Dedication Day

By MALLory MAcDoNALD
Staff Writer

Last semester, the Honor Council distributed
asurvey about the Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility, seeking feedback from
Davidson students.

The Honor Code is relatively unique and
long-standing tradition at Davidson, helping to
define its purpose and community. Faculty,
students and staff work and live under the Code
and recognize its value, both to their education
and their lives outside of Chambers.

The survey’s main goal was to see how
students interpret certain aspects of the Code of
Responsibility, and also to examine the lan-
guage used to define the Honor Code.

The Honor Council wants to use the resulting
information from the Davidson student body to
make sure they are doing a good job of explain-
ing the contents, as well as assist students who
might find certain parts tricky or unclear.

The Honor Council is now beginning its
review of survey, and hopes to use the results in
organizing Re-Dedication Day. This event will
take place sometime this semester. Re-Dedica-

tion Day will include a panel of students and
faculty that will answer questions and respond
to comments about the Davidson College Red
Book.

On this day, a mock trial will be held, allow-
ing students to see exactly what happens behind
the typically closed doors of an Honor Trial.

The Honor Council is eager to incorporate the
feedback from the students. Mary Carpenter
’03, Honor Council Secretary, said, “the Honor
Council wants to cater to the students and
ensure that we are doing all we can do to educate
the Davidson Community.”

Part of this effort comes from wanting to
increase awareness about the upcoming Re-
Dedication Day. By informing the student body
of the Honor Code-centered event, more stu-
dents will have the opportunity to come and
voice their questions.

Because the Honor Code and the Code of
Responsibility are such central fixtures of life at

Davidson, it is important that students, faculty,
and staff abide by it. They should pose any
questions whenever or wherever there is doubt,
and the Honor Council is happy to quell any
uncertainties.

ream: eI want to become a doctor.” ;

_ apply by Mareb 1.

For more information, visit

www.jhu.edu/posthac or cal!
410-516-7748.

| Pursue you ream of eng a doctor and

oe eer Oe ee be

SGA passes report on Honor
Council after months of debate

By GeorGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

Much of Thursday’s SGA meeting was the
culmination of last semester’s debate on the
Honor Council and ‘Code of Responsibility.
Members voted to pass the final report concern-
ing these issues. The report clarifies the Honor
Council process of elections and outlines
changes for.student representation on the Re-
view Board. It also asks for a more active and
interactive role on the part of the Honor Council
in emphasizing the importance of the Honor
Code and the Code of Responsibility.

The bill also suggests that the Honor Council
write and distribute an orientation packet to
incoming students that will clarify all issues of
plagiarism. The SGA hopes that taking this
measure will reduce confusion of the Honor
Code and minimize the possibility of uninten-
tional plagiarism.

The final report was unanimously voted:
through, but not until some cuts had been made.
The SGA voted against the paragraph encour-
aging the Honor Council to “only consider
intent when assigning appropriate sanctions.”
Many SGA members were confused or had
reservations about the statement. Some even
interpreted it as telling the Honor Council how
to do their job, to which they objected.

Also cut was a paragraph regarding off-cam-
pus behavior, which states that the Dean of
Students and the Honor Council should be
responsible for violations that occur off-cam-
pus and that these violations should be treated as
if they had occurred at Davidson. Many SGA
members were concerned that a violating stu-
dent traveling abroad would have to undergo
punishment twice—once abroad at their place
of study and once again on campus.

Also discussed was the issue of whether or
not the Honor Council should assign grades as
sanctions. Currently, only the Honor Council
can assign grades if a student plagiarizes, but the

SGA took time to consider whether. or not
teachers should have the authority to assign a
grade after a student has been found guilty.
Ultimately, the SGA voted to eliminate both
paragraphs, deciding that it would be best not
only to leave the policy as is but also not to
interfere in this matter altogether.

After the report had passed, many were re-
lieved that the many months of hard work were
finally over. SGA President Gray Patterson
thought that the organization had made a big
move for itself and was glad that they were
taking a “proactive stance” on an issue.

SGA will be taking another stance with their
anti-war resolution. The resolution is currently
being processed in the committees, and the
Young Democrats are collecting signatures in
order to bring the issue to the senate for debate.

SGA has also influenced RLO to make some
changes. This year, there will be a Martin Court
lottery for rising seniors. Two groups will be

‘able to cluster by averaging their total lottery

numbers. All roommates must sign a lease
before assignments are made, and the results of
the lottery will be posted within four days.
Applications must be submitted before noon on
Mar. 18, and applicants must report to the West
Hall Conference Room according to their time
slot as designated by lottery numbers. (Five-
person apartments will report to the conference
room on Mar. 18 and four person apartments
will report on Mar. 22). Surveys will be distrib-
uted to Martin Court residents both after the
spring sign-up and after Fall Break in order for
RLO to receive feedback and make necessary
changes.

At the end of the meeting, an announce-
ment was made concerning the upkeep of the
Union. On several occasions, especially on
weekends, students have arrived at the Union
and vomited. Tim Stroud, Assistant Director for
Operations, suggested that the SGA members
make the student body aware of this problem.
He threatens to the Union if the problem is not
resolved..

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.

Earn academic credit living, working ©
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial: Aid applies and

Academic Credits transfer!

ade ORC TEC a

215.735. 2300

+s here reer ee
