4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

__NEws

Wepnespay, OcTosEr 1, 2003

Pass/fail debate continues as deadline nears

By SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writer

As the sixth week of classes approaches, so
does the deadline for pass/fail, with completed
forms due Friday. The timeless controversy
surrounding the policy of pass/fail arises in my
many students’ minds. They must weigh the
potential negative aspects of taking aclass pass/
fail while trying to predict what type of letter
grade they might receive at the end of the
semester.

First and second-year students have the op-
tion of taking one course per year, even core
requirements, as pass/fail, and juniors and se-
niors can take up to one course pass/fail per
semester. The student must decide to do pass/
fail in the sixth week of the class and must make
a grade of a C minus or better to receive a
passing grade for the semester. The outcome of
the course does not factor into a students overall
GPA.

Dr. Hansford Epes, Humanities professor
and Registrar, described the original intent for
the system. “The reasoning was that students
might feel freer to select a course in an area
unfamiliar to them if they ran little danger of
jeopardizing their academic record in doing
that.”

Dr. Epes went on to explain that students are
supposed to use the pass/fail system during
course selection as opposed to choosing it dur-
ing a semester once bad grades have been
received.

Many students complain that six weeks into
the semester is too soon to determine whether or
not they are going to use pass/fail, and many
support moving the deadline until after fall
break.

Epes said that six weeks into the semester is

actually three weeks later than it used to be, and
again he notes that using the system to bail out
mid-semester “was not the reasoning that went
into pass/fail.”

Dr. Lynn Poland, Associate Professor of |

Religion and Humanities, asserted that students
tend to “use it to balance a semester” by taking
“a really hard course and balancing it with a
pass/fail course.”

Ananonymous freshman intending to opt for
pass/fail this week explained the reasoning,
saying, “I find myself in aclass I hold no interest
in, counts nothing towards my major, and threat-
ens my GPA.”

Some would question why the student signed
up for the class in the first place, but often people
end upinclasses they donot like simply because
everything else is full. For those students, the
system is ideal.

Ben Whigham ’07 supports this notion.
Whigham said, “I can understand the contro-
versy, but it’s nice to know it’s there.”

Other students disagree with the basic
premise behind the pass/fail system. Kathryn
Wilson ’06 said, “Focusing on your GPA
doesn’ treally accomplish what we’ re here for.”
Like many professors, she also noted “to do
pass/fail is the same as choosing to wimp-out.”

Others question the system in light of how it
appears on a graduate school transcript or re-
sume to an employer.

_ Epes said, “I can’t speak for every grad
school and employer in the country; I do know
that a lot of med schools and an increasing
number of law schools are saying that they want
to see a grade on the courses you have. A
transcript with a lot of P’s on it looks like the
transcript of a slacker.”

He said, “Employers who have been through
college know what pass/fail means.”

Senior Class Gift Update

100%

T3I%

72% OF THE SENIOR
. CLASS HAS NOW

_72,PLEDGED OR PAID!
if the class of 2004
reaches 75% participation,
President and Mrs. Vagt
will make an additional
gift of $12,004 in honor
of the Senior class

Pay your pledge or make
your gift online at
www.davidson.edu/giving
or contact Molly Shaw x2831
or Maria Tardugno x2103 in
the Annual Fund Office

ee ins cintiisis trseaiecieinic2-wiek-onths dedtcitaa \o Nasorkicg

and Career Fairs, and, Interview

Preparation. :
See nen SPemnE V7 Se Seeeeee © Oftics, comtinnes teroaghont tes scedenstc

year

Pass/Fail forms due this Friday.

Some professors are also concerned about the
false sense of security presented when students
opt to take a class Pass/Fail. According to the
Registrar, a third of all failure grades come from
people doing Pass/Fail in a class.

There are also reports that students have had
to take classes over again because various med
schools wanted to see an actual grade on the
transcript.

Dr. Barbara Lom, Assistant Professor of Bi-
ology, confirmed the problem with students
receiving a failing grade instead of perhaps
having a D on the report card. Lom said, “It.can
be a danger because they think it’s a vacation. I
have seen it backfire.”

Enforcement, from page 1
resolve investigations in which off-campus sus-
pects are involved.

Walker acknowledged that his policies are
more strict than those of previous years, but
argued that harsher enforcement actually ben-
efits Davidson students.

Walker said, “‘With a lax enforcement sys-
tem, students will become used to breaking the
rules, and it will be more difficult to adjust once
they graduate and are subject to municipal
laws.” He added that a laidback enforcement
system’”‘creates an issue of liability when stu-
dents put themselves in situations where they
could cause harm to themselves andeach other.”

Some students have expressed consternation
in reaction to Walker’s policies. Connor
Mooney ’06 said, “I think that it’s the responsi-
bility of those in the house to control the parties
and not necessarily through the increased en-
forcement of the Davidson police.”

Through more severe and ultimately more
consistent enforcement policies, Walker hopes
to develop a partnership between the Davidson
student body and public safety, so that the
students will learn to police themselves and
officers will need only be present in the case of
an emergency.

Walker said, “Students should have opportu-
nities to enjoy themselves and have fun, but
they should also look out for each other and use
common sense in their actions.”

Want to write
news?
not too

for

Jt’s

late.

Email anipatel
brearroll

oT

NEW EVECARE IN DAVIDSON
UNIVERSITY

FYE

ASSOCIATES
Doctors of Optometry PA.

Steven H. Eyler O.D. Kenneth W. Best O.D.
Maggie M. MetwalfiO.D. NN. Elaine Osborne O.D.
Kristin N. Richwina O.D.

We cave about yo Oy ee

« Comprehensive family eye care
Treatment of eye disease & disorders
« Majority of insurance plans accepted
+ LASIK surgery cansultations

¢ Large selection of fashion eyewear

* Protective (safety) eyewear

« Saheday appointments available

704-896-9090
455 S. Main St, Ste 100 - Davidson

704-547-1561
8316 Suite E.
Medical Plaza Or.
Chaslotte/University Azea

704-536-6042
680+-£
_ _ Enat Hanis Bhai
_ CharlottelHtichory Grove Avea

