DAVIDSON

Total Revenue

Other _
2% |
Transter From Operating |
Reserves es a |
2% 1
Trusts, Gifts, Grants

10%

Auxiliaries (Net)
3%

42%

Endowment (Operations)
14%

TOTAL ENDOWMENT

+ four years ago, we decided to set the money
aside. We took this unusual step because we

Tuition from Students and
Non-Davidson Sources

23%
Endowment (Fin. Aid}
9% TOTAL TUITION
REVENUES
- 60%
Tuition - Davidson Funded
Fin. Aid
18%
2003-2004
$68,483,862
have a positive variance when we close the
Budget, from page | books. These small surpluses are reinvested in

second year,” Norfleet said. With declining
endowment values, an institution has several
choices: cutting costs, compromising its strate-
gic priorities, taking “‘seed corn” from its en-
dowment, or dipping into reserves.

Fortunately, Norfleet said that Davidson is in
relatively good condition. Beyond the generos-
ity of both large and small donors, “our diversi-
fication in the endowment really helped us.

The Operating Reserve

“But the money in our operating reserve
came largely from overshooting our fund-rais-
ing goals. The Development Staff have done an
almost unbelievable job, especially given the
economic climate.”

Norfleet also explained, “If over the course of
the year, some budget managers find ways to
save money, their department’s budget will

The Foundation forthe Defanse of Democracies
Undergraduate Fellowship Program

college needs.

“It must be our Calvanistic heritage,” Norfleet
joked, “but we have managed to make that
happen every year since WWII,” noting that
those surpluses are typically relatively small.

He cites the endowment’ s performance in the
late 1990s, donor generosity, and “modest over-
enrollment” for providing the surplus funds in
the operating reserve.

The ‘over-enrollment consisted of fewer stu-
dents studying abroad than anticipated, accord-
ing to Vagt. As a result, the college took in
additional tuition revenue that otherwise would
have gone to institutions abroad.

Anticipating a long economic decline and
slow recovery, the administration has for sev-
eral years been collecting a rainy day fund, the
operating reserve.

Norfleet said, “Normally such surpluses
would go over to your capital’ budget, but be-
cause we saw the economy getting sick three or

expenses.

abolish intemetional terrorism.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking

qualified undergraduate applicants to parlicipale in a year - lang
fellowship program, “Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism’.

The fellowship program will commence in earty August 2003 with a
intensive two week course in terrorism studies al Tel Aviv University in
Israel. Using Israel as a case study, Fellows will leam about the
threat terrorism poses fo democratic societies around the world.
Fellows will interact with academics, diplomats and miliiary officials
from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States.

FDD Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel

FDD Is anon-proft and non-partisan think tank that promotes
informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively

imerested students should visit our website
www. def enddemocracy.org and complete the on-line application.

Please send eh enone

were nervous and scared about what we saw on
the economic horizon.

“From a Monday-morning cjuartertmeling
perspective, it now looks like brilliant strategy.
We’re just very fortunate. Bobby deserves a
huge amount of credit for not only permitting,
but actually encouraging the accumulation of
this modest pool of reserves.”

The result is that Davidson finds itself in an
enviable position compared to its peer institu-
tions.

President Vagt said tapping the reserves was
“projected not to reoccur.”

Tuition to Rise

In addition to drawing money from operating
reserves, the budget approved by the trustees
calls for an increase of 3.8% in tuition.

This increase is exactly in-step with increases
in recent years, and Vagt defends it saying,
“We'll be on the low end [of similar institu-
tions’ increases, but] this is cold comfort to a
parent who receives an increase in tuition.”

Financial aid was increased in the budget in
direct proportion to the tuition increase.

Norfleet explained that the college is cur-
rently engaged in the “Let Learning Be Cher-
ished” campaign to fund financial aid, profes-
sorships, lectures, and many other areas besides
the very noticeable construction on campus.

Davidson currently has two primary finan-
cial priorities. The first of these is to keep its
tuition increases below four percent at a time
when its peer institutions average increases of
five to eight percent.

Norfleet said that because of a commitment
to “socio-economic diversity” and “the values
of our inherent in our heritage of church-relat-
edness, if we can hold back on the rate of
increase in that source of revenue, then
Davidson becomes that much more of a value.”

As aconsequence, some regional liberal arts
schools like Sewanee and Furman, in some

_regards inferior in terms of their academic qual-

ity, are reaching us in price. This makes
Davidson more and more a tremendous “value
for the dollar from the customer’s point-of-
view,” Norfleet said.

Davidson’s other primary goal — to increase
faculty compensation — is in tension with this
first goal. For years, Davidson has ranked “at or
near the bottom in faculty compensation among
the top twenty five liberal arts colleges in US
News and World Report.”

This is unfair to current faculty and hinders
the college’s ability to attract the faculty candi-
dates it wants, despite other perks. And in the
long term, it could threaten the quality of teach-

ing, and therefore the very value we are striving
to offer the students. —

“There has to be a balance between the two,”
Norfleet emphasized.

- Thus thie college aims to “give compensation
increases that are the most competitive the
college can possibly afford relative to the vari-
ous markets in which we compete,” according
to the 2003-04 Fiscal Year Budget: Noteworthy
Items report compiled by Norfleet for the Board
of Trustees.

Norfleet said that tapping into the reserve
allows the college to avoid passing on $1.5
million in tuition increases to students and yet
still meet its priorities.

New Spending

Italso allows modest programmatic increases
in some areas. The largest of these is Academic
Affairs.

“Ina tight budget year...Academic Affairs is
grateful that, not only did we have no program
decreases, but we are able to increase modestly
some important items,” Vice President of Aca-
demic Affairs and Dean of Faculty Clark Ross
said.

“Principally, one is the upgrade of the near
ten-year old CHAL system at the library for a
couple hundred thousand dollars.” - Norfleet
specified that cost as $139,000.

Ross also noted the library’s general fund
also increased because of the increasing cost of
journals and periodicals. “In particular journal
costs .. seem easily to exceed five percent or
more [rates of inflation. Journal publishers]
have a mini-monopoly...and we want to have
them, have to have them to provide a quality
education.”

Also in the increases, Ross said, ““We’ ve been
able to increase some modest program deficien-
cies, some money for speakers or equipment.

“We’ve been able to make some modest
advance, and I’m just very pleased that we’ ve
been able to do that.”

Norfleet said these increases were not frivo-
lous. “New requests that were perfectly legiti-
mate totaled $1 million,” but the college only
added $329,095 in new resources for Academic
Affairs.

Norfleet did not attempt to hide or spin the
harsh reality of Davidson’s financial situation,
remaining perfectly candid while showing the
college’s bright spots and its relatively good
status compared to other colleges and universi-
ties.

He said, “The more ‘the whole community
knows about the institution’s resources... the
better off everyone is in understanding and
helping with the hard decisions that have to be
made.”

Kappa Sigma, from page |

College President Bobby Vagt said Monday
it’s unfortunate that the media coverage, par-
ticularly the cartoon, casts the entire school in a
negative light.

“T regret that in the media coverage, all stu-
dents seemed to be tarred with the same brush as
the seven,” said Vagt. “I regret that the one
political cartoon characterized the institution
based on the actions of seven. I regret it, but you
can’tcomplain about it because that’s the nature
of news coverage.”

Kappa Sigma under scrutiny

One former fraternity president said house
members are not always made aware of all
pledging activities. And it may be unfair to
blame every member for the actions of a few.

“T do think it was a very stupid, cruel act, but

the acts of those people reflected poorly on the ©

upstanding members of that fraternity,” said
Jimmy Swansbrough ’03, a former Sigma Phi
Epsilon president.

“Even if it was condoned by Kappa Sig’s
pledge educator, it doesn’t necessarily mean the
whole rest of the fraternity knew what was
going on. The (members) that Iknow, I wouldn’t
think they would do anything like that at all. I’ ve
always known them to be great guys.”

Many other fraternities, including Sig Ep,
encourage pledges to speak up if they’re un-
comfortable during rush activities.

“No one is forced to do anything they don’t

want to,” said Swansbrough. “Pledging at
Davidson in general is very mild compared to
every other college I know of.”

Swansbrough said the heavy media coverage
given to Kappa Sigma could even affect the
post-graduation plans of its members.

“It’s getting around the nation and obviously
bothering potential employers,” he said. “A
friend in PiKahad applied to some grad schools,
and they called to ask him if he was in Kappa
Sig. We both assumed that if he were, they
would reject him.

That makes me feel bad for the brothers in
Kappa Sig who had nothing to do with this act,
and could potentially not get hired.”

A black eye for Patterson Court?

According to Patterson Court Advisor
Grahaeme Hesp, fraternity enrollment at
Davidson has declined an average of 10% over
the past 10 years. Numbers over the last two
years illustrate that trend.

Last year, 49% of first-year male students
pledged a Patterson Court fraternity. This year,
that number fell to 40%.

Swansbrough said the goose incident could
lead to an even sharper drop.

“Tt was a very rogue incident, but it’s obvi-
ously going to skew other students’ views of
what goes on during pledging or at any other
time on Patterson Court,” he said. “I would say
that’s a shame, but stereotypes are made every-

* day.”
