Staff Editorial
Continue to diversify
Patterson Court

The Davidsonian applauds the establishment of an Alpha Phi
Alpha chapter on campus. Historically black fraternities tradi-
tionally foster great diversity in their membership, and, by all ac-
counts, Alpha embodies the core Davidson values of service,
leadership and scholarship.

Patterson Court expansion, however, needs to be examined. A
group of young men wanted an opportunity—to participate in an
organization familiar to their families and focused on certain ide-
als—that Davidson didn’t offer.

What will happen when a group of young women want to par-
ticipate in a historically black sorority? Or a historically white
sorority?

Menoncampus will soon have four options on Patterson Court:
to join a historically black Greek organization, to join a histori-
cally white Greek organization, to join an eating house (CoHo) or
toremain independent. Women have exactly half of these options.

By the way, while only 31 percent of males on campus are
Patterson Court members, a whopping 47 percent of females are
in eating houses.

Bottom line: that’s discrimination. Men have more general
options (Greek, eating house, independent) as well as more spe-
cific options (Sigma Phi Epsilon, Kappa Alpha, etc.) while par-
ticipating in significantly lower percentages.

Davidson’s well-established Greek system has consistently
catered to white men. The chartering of an Alpha Phi Alphachap-
ter will most directly benefit minority men.

If we’ re going to start offering demographically specific Greek
organizations, no argument against sororities can stand up.

Even the process of chartering a new fraternity chapter reflects
a sense of gender inequity on Patterson Court. The group of men
who decided last semester to pursue this option met with little
opposition. In fact, only seven commitment signatures are re-
quired to apply for an Alpha chapter charter, though Davidson
turned in 12.

You can bet that there are seven women on campus who would
like to join a sorority for the same reason these men wantahistori-
cally black fraternity—family ties, an international network of
contacts and a specific sense of tradition.

Unfortunately, women who have requested the establishment
ofasofority chapter at Davidson—and they have, more than once
in recent memory—have been denied that opportunity.

Davidson’ effort to diversify its Greek culture with the addi-
tion of a historically black fraternity is great. Now it’s time to
include the women.

(The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ¢

Editor in Chief.

Maitt Garfield
Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser
‘News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll
Perspectives Editor

David Crow
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader
Sports Editors
Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele & Matt Whited
Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore & Gregg Wallace
Circulation Manager
Laura Filosa

i Y lh

T'S ONLY FAIR THAT WE GIVE YOU EVERY OPPORTUNITY To STEP DOWN.”

Be,

Students deserve
cable in rooms

In response to the Jan. 22 article “Honor Code applies to cable
TV splicing, too,” I find Davidson College’s policy regarding the
theft of cable overly severe. Not only is Davidson an extremely
challenging school academically, it does little to offer students
outlets. While some students are able to drive themselves con-
stantly and diligently keep up with the work load, many others
realize that this is college, and that it is healthy to have fun and
relax every now and then.

I do not think that Davidson students are experiencing the
famed “‘best four years of your life.” I believe that as a student
body we would unanimously agree that our college experience is
significantly different than that of students from every other col-
lege—in both a good and bad way.

While we enjoy Davidson’s small size, our accessibility, to
professors, buildings, and the town itself, among other things,
Davidson nevertheless leaves a few but extremely important
things to be desired, namely leisure.

The College’ s policies too often hamper our ability to have fun
and relax with friends. I find it perplexing that we are not allowed
to watch cable TV in our rooms—even if we are willing to pay for
it. 1am surprised that TVs are not on RLO’s list of prohibited
dormitory items. Having cable TV in our own room is a small
luxury that every student should be able to enjoy.

The problem that exists is that there is only one small TV
equipped with cable available for an entire floor, or dorm in the
case of the sophomore apartments. The hall lounges are outdated,
uncomfortable, and unaccommodating—often there simply is
not enough space for a group of people to enjoy a program to-
gether, and the dilemma will always exist amongst students want-
ing to watch different programs.

Until something is done to mitigate this situation, splicing cable
is sadly the only option for some.

Andrew Gibbons ‘

RAR

ELPA TO

~ Not every ¢
is an “exper Ee :

Ilearned a few things from Laura Filosa’s cartoonin last week’ s
Davidsonian. First, I realized I am not a good liberal by today’s
college campus definition. Second, I discovered that neither are
some of the self-professing good liberals on campus. Let me
explain what I mean,

Iam a staunch opponent to the Roe v. Wade decision. From the
sidewalk chalk drawings and recent articles in the Davidsonian I
can clearly see this opposition is not in line with true liberal think-
ing. However, Ihave recently discovered Ihave some unexpected
company. Laura Filosa’s cartoon highlights the contradictory
stance many take on the issue of abortion.

The cartoon partakes in the gross generalizations that are
frowned upon in the academic setting and usually reserved for
traditionalists. The cartoon asks what is the biggest challenge to
Roe v. Wade. The first picture depicts a group of “religious ex-
tremists” protesting the decision. The “extremists” call for the
killing of abortion doctors and the damnation of everyone in-
volved with abortion.

My problem with the picture is its subjective and general con-
tent.

I question the definition of “religious extremists”. This term is
often thrown around with no concrete
understanding as to what it truly refers
to. [ar a Christian. The Bible teaches
me to respect and protect human life
and dignity. Does my commitment to
= this principle and my subsequent chal-
lenging of Roe v. Wade mean that I am
a “religious extremist?”

Please don’t get me wrong; I view
the killing of doctors and the violent condemnation of abortion in
the name of religion as detestable. However, the cartoon gener-
alizes so much that anyone challenging Roe v. Wade on religious
grounds is considered a “religious extremists.” Perhaps some
would argue this is far-fetched and reading into too much. I dis-
agree.

For instance, suppose the New York Times ran a cartoon that
asked the question “what is the biggest challenge to national se-
curity?” The cartoon then depicted Arabs boarding planes while
subtitled “religious extremism”. The cartoon would undoubtedly
be condemned, and rightly so. Such a cartoon takes the actions of
a very tiny minority and projects it onto the majority.

While the cartoonist could defend his or her position by saying
only violent extremists were depicted, many Arabs would none-
theless rightly feel misunderstood, stereotyped, and targeted.
College campuses would frown upon such close-mindedness and
generalizations in a pursuit of tolerance and the liberal ideal.

The recent cartoon in the Davidsonian manifests that such ide-
als are inconsistently applied when certain stances are not in con-
formity with certain agendas. Religion has effectively been por-
trayed as archaic and destructive when placed in the context of
the abortion debate. Just as Arabs would feel their ethnicity at-
tacked by the hypothetical column, the recent Davidsonian car-
toon has the same effect upon those whose opposition to Roe v.
Wade is religious. It’s nota matter of who’s right or who’s wrong,
rather a consistent treatment of both sides in the debate.

David Dupee ‘04

meme and now iA BUSA’ FAal@SA SRT

Pay wet Uae Wey vent Gur ee Wea bay ae Cre ew Wa wae ole Ce Oa Wey oa eed ae oh oe Wk pe ee ay ee nv Ser Sarto a) er rde We NA ES
