know for their eclectic ‘mix
Tickéts are $15, $10 for seni
office.

Classical Indian dancer to unite — aa a s ae

Praised as one of the greatest
Indian dancer Sonal Mansingh Wi “bai Tuesday, Sept. 9 at 7 p.m. in
Duke Family Performance Hall. Mansingh has received the Padma
Vibhushan, the high honor awarded by the President of India, and is
known for her traditional yet radical style of dance. Admission is free.

Literary Event: Rabinowitz to speak

Poet Anna Rabinowitz will be speaking at 7:30 p.m. next Wednesday in
the 900 Room. Rabinowitz is the author of two books of poetry, includ-
ing Darkling: A Poem, a book Jee meditation on meciny. writing,
and the Holocaust.

CAMEuse POlice bLORIER

8/24/03 Martin Court Assault on Female
Campus police responded to a complaint of a physical assault on a female in the Martin
Court area. Incident is still under investigation.

8/24/03 Dorm Row Damage to Property
Known student was found to be in a fit of rage and dismantling a chair that was College
property. Student has been referred for disciplinary action.

8/24/03 Martin Court Disturbance

Campus Police responded to a large gathering in Martin Court. After numerous attempts
by police, the crowd was disbursed.

8/23/03 Residence Hall Disturbance/Unauthorized Party

Campus Police were called to a residence hall in response to a report of a loud party. Upon
arrival, police found numerous alcohol violations. Students were referred for disciplinary
action.

8/23/03 Residence Half Aid to the Ill . {

Campus Police responded to a residence hall in response to a call for medical attention.
Student was transported to the hospital with complications resulting from the ingestion of
a mix of alcohol and prescription medication.

8/25/03 Fraternity House

Damage to Property
Kriown students painted a door and doorway to their fraternity house red. The students were
not contracted for this job and face disciplinary action.

8/26/03 Martin Court Loud/Unauthorized Party
Campus Police responded to a noise complaint in Martin Court, where an unauthorized
party was being held. All residents were referred for disciplinary action.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Freshmen guys compete in Saturday’s Baker Olympics.
Word on the Street: Freshmen reactions

Orientation fun but tiring for many

By ALIciA JANOS

Staff Writer

Between moving in, picnic lunches, countless
meetings, Olympic games, a book discussion
and aclass picture, four days of freshmen orien-
tation left Davidson’s newest students at all ends
of the emotional spectrum: utterly fatigued,
more relaxed, and extremely anxious to begin
the school year.

Andy Agcoili ’07, who attended the pre-
orientation for minority students, is one of the
many freshmen that have already fallen in love
with the campus.

The pre-orientation served as an excellent
chance for him to meet new people and to
become acquainted with the campus and its
traditions. Agcoili described it as “overall a
great experience,” one he wishes everyone could
attend. Shari Reid ’07 agreed, saying, “pre-
orientation really helped me to meet other people
that I may not have met if I had come at regular
orientation. It definitely helps to form closer
bonds to people.”

Danny Villarreal-Alvarez 07 was equally
impressed with the International Student Orien-
tation, which consisted of “talks about cultural
shock, social security numbers, and immigra-
tion papers.” She and her friends feel more
prepared having attended it since, “it was so
well-planned, better than freshmen orientation.”

Regarding regular orientation, substance-free
student Kevin Kirksey ’07 was “extremely im-
pressed with the regimen and schedule.”

However, one reoccurring theme voiced by

most all of the students revolved around the fact
that each of the four days was too packed with
activities, allowing few time in between to
actually become accustomed to college.

Allyson Vicars ’07 believes that the biggest
highlight was “definitely meeting all of the new
people, but the full schedule left us tired before
school start

On the other hand, Jessica Maguire ’07 feels
that “it needed to be busy at the beginning,” and
thus experienced a smoother transition through
attending the barbeques and. freshmen parties.

Amidst the hustle and bustle and positive
reactions, there were select students dissatisfied
with orientation. One student, wishing to re-
main anonymous, described how arriving here
“felt like Camp Davidson.”

With each student trying desperately to meet
everyone, conversations felt “too phony,” and
parents stayed for too extended a period of time.

“The kids couldn’t let-go,” the student no-
ticed, making it increasingly difficult to form
bonds with others.

However, the student was impressed with
“seeing all of the OT’s helping with move-in.
Everyone was so friendly and willing to help
out.”

Perhaps those students who encountered the
most challenges transitioning into college were
freshmen who attended the third session of
Davidson Outdoors’ Summer Odyssey pro-
gram, having only one day of rest before move-
in. Nonetheless, Amir Vaez ’07 voices no com-
plaints about orientation itself other than the
“time constraint.”

Afternoon CROP Walk

By Becca TAYLOR
Staff Writer

Most freshmen were skeptical when they saw
two Saturday afternoon hours devoted to “‘Ser-
vice Projects” on their Orientation schedules.
What, after all, cauld be accomplished in a mere
two hours? Apparently, a lot.

The 12 projects included a mini-CROP Walk,
weeding flower beds at Davidson Elementary,
cleaning the trails and course for Davidson
Outdoors, making sandwiches. for the Urban
Ministry, readying classrooms at Ada Jenkins,
cleaning the Senior Center, organizing supplies
for the Children’s Art Project, building fences at
the Hinds Feet Farm, volunteering at the
YMCA, mulching the playground at DCPC,
ecology projects at the Davidson IB School, and
painting projects at the Woodlawn School.

Isha Ahsan ’03, the newest addition to
Davidson’s Community Services office and
main organizer of the day’s events, explained
that the afternoon was to be “a taste, a small and
simple message of what’s around.”

She said that everyone involved in the exten-
sive planning of the projects were “hoping that
the day planted a seed” in the minds of the class
of 2007. :

Was the day a success? Many first-years
admitted that they didn’t find the projects re-

highlights day of service

warding. Amanda Elliot ’07 summed it up by
stating, “We didn’t feel like we had accom:
plished much, but we were glad to help.”

Many complained about the intense heat,
understandable since most of the projects took
place outdoors, and others were upset that they
only had exposure to one project since the
projects were explained after the groups had
broken up.

On the other hand, many liked the afternoon.
For example, most people really enjoyed the
CROP Walk.

Everyone agreed that the activities were a
great way to meet new people, and were a nice
introduction to the service-oriented spirit‘ of
Davidson.

None of the participants could really have an
idéa of how much work went into the Service
Day. Ahsan and the rest of the coordinators
worked tirelessly all summer, finding groups
that had specific, small, and necessary tasks that
could be accomplished in one sitting.

Once they had the projects set up, they had all
sorts of tedious jobs, such as locating 130 pairs
of gloves for the ecology project at the middle
school.

For those whose interest was sparkéd by the
Service Day, the 2003 Volunteer Fair will take
place on Wednesday, Sept. 3 from 11:30 a.m.-
3 p.m. in the Alvarez Student Union.
