Tue DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2003 9

Complaints
and
Comments

The fine line between love and lunacy

Picture this: you’re alone in your living
room watching TV, wearing an inSide-out
baseball cap. You’re wedged uncomfortably
between the couch cushions, with fingers
crossed and hands raised high above your
head. As you stare intently at the screen, sweat
begins to roll down your forehead and tears
form in the corners of your eyes.

Have you gone insane? It all de-
pends on what’s you’ re watching. If».
it’s a rerun of “Happy Days” that’s
on the tube, people might start to
worry. If, however, your favorite
team is in the middle of a late-game
comeback attempt, this behavior is
considered perfectly normal.

There’s something about the die-
hard sports fan that makes insanity,
compulsivity, and obsession socially
acceptable as long as these otherwise
vices are channeled towards rooting
for a group of athletes competing for
what amounts to nothing in the real
world. Actions that would ordinarily warrant
concern receive little as long as they are attrib-
uted to being a fan. That’s exactly what makes
it fun. ’

Under what other premise could you insist
on sitting in the same crack between the cush-
ions every time it’s close in the fourth quarter
because Sprewell hit a three the first time you
sat there? Where else could you openly pro-
fess your belief that waving stuffed monkeys
around brings about good luck? Superstition
is the norm: never mention a perfect game
while it’s being pitched, put those rally-caps
on when you’re behind, fear the curse of the
Bambino (or love it). -

Fanatics also specialize in legalized stalk-
ing. They wear clothing featuring their favor-

Once again Phil Mickelson didn’t make the
cut. Although this time, it was his fastball that
kept him from making it, not his putting.
Mickelson was cut from the Triple A Toledo
Mud Hens (Tiger’s affiliate) after a tryout in
which he pitched batting practice to the team’s
pitchers. Talk about a
tough assignment... Ned
Yost, the manager of the
Milwaukee Brewers,
promised his team that if
they won 10 games in a
row the coaching staff
would wear Hooters uni-
forms. Sure enough, the
Brewers prevailed on
August 28 with a win
over the Reds. And sure
enough, the entire coach-
ing staff sported the or-
ange “short” shorts and white t-shirts for the
team’s flight to Chicago. Who knows what
waitresses they borrowed the outfits from to
fit the overweight coaching staff... Dennis
Rodman was released from jail on Friday
after being caught driving his boat in Newport
Harbor under the influence of alcohol. Re-
ports say that Rodman fell over while tying up
his boat. One would think that Newport cops

For you,

competition, as
women drove ¢
rained out.
compete in front 6

If you have sports-related opinions you woulda
Mike Giglio at migiglio@davidson.edu.

Dorts fan

ite players’ names and numbers, collect their
pictures, make scrapbooks, and obsess over
anything they touched, signed, or fouled off.
Some even wait outside stadiums and restau-
rants for a chance to approach their heroes.
Imagine walking into a stranger’s room to
see posters of yourself plastered all over the

wall, a self-portrait that you don’t remember
signing sitting on a desk, and a collection of
some of your old clothing and athletic equip-
ment in a glass case. The stranger is wearing
a shirt with your last name on the back. You’ re
out of there in a second.

But it’s hard to hate these die-hards. They
travel hundreds of miles just to sit in the
bleachers at away games, and they come to
every home game, fair weather or otherwise.
They fight the rain with garbage bags and
combat the heat (and sometimes even the
cold) by removing clothing. Even when there’s
no joy in Mudville, they show up with sad
faces, which may or may not be hidden be-
neath paper bags.

would understand Rodman’ s fun after visiting
his house 70 times since his retirement . . .
Former NBA players Robert Parish and
James Worthy were inducted into the basket-
ball Hall of Fame on Friday. That’s a total of
14 feet and 2 inches of ;

After the countless hours and dollars and
energy spent, what’s it all worth to these fans?
The results and the spreads show that home- _
field advantage is no mere superstition; most
teams play better at home. Bleacher creatures
and cheeseheads and hogs do make a differ-
ence. Perhaps that’s just it, knowing that all
the screaming and hoping and pray-
ing might actually help your team
win.

Maybe simply loving a team is
enough to incite all the hysteria.

As I drove home from Washing-
ton, D.C., this Saturday, after sacri-
ficing class, homework, and far too
much money to see my beloved Jets
lose to the Redskins in Thursday’s
NFL opener, I contemplated all this.
The highlight of my weekend, de-
spite the loss, was standing up in the
middle of upper deck section 231,
pointing to my green Mo Lewis jer-
sey, and screaming at all the Redskins
fans about how much better the Jets are.

The next best part: having them return the
favor for the entirety of my long walk to the
parking lot.

Maybe that’s the answer. Maybe I just
needed some justification for missing class,
taking a road trip, and allowing myself to
escape from reality fora little while and just go
crazy. Maybe everyone needs that once in a
while.

But that still doesn’t explain the sickening
feeling I got from watching the game-winning
field goal from ex-Jet John Hall sail through
the uprights with seconds left in the fourth
quarter.

Maybe it’s a little bit of both.

after suffering a broken left orbital bone, un-
known damage to his eye, and a chipped tooth.
Romanowski told coach Bill Callahan, “I’ve
never really had problems controlling my tem-
per”... In other sports violence, Pirates first

basemen’ Randall

man, for those wonder-
ing... Seven-time world
champion Snooker
player Stephen Hendry
was informed after land-
ing in Scotland that his
cue stick had been bro-
ken on the flight from
Thailand via Thai Air-
ways. Hendry immedi-
ately brought his lucky
stick to “cue doctor”
Lawrie Annadale, but his

“Randall Simon closed
the case with the lady
dressed in a sausage
outfit... I hope his wife
takes the hint in what not
to cook for breakfast”

Simon closed the case
with the lady dressed in
a sausage outfit with a
$432 check. In a public
relations activity at
Wrigley Field, fans
dress in different meats
and race around the
bases. The unfortunate
lady dressed as a sau-
sage was struck by
Simon’s bat, causing her
to fall. I hope Simon’s

repairs were not good .

enough. For the first time since Hendry was
14, he will use a new cue stick . . . Bill
Romanowski of the Oakland Raiders has
apologized for his attack on teammate Marcus
Williams. During a Raider practice, he re-
portedly ripped off Williams’ helmet and
punched him in the side of the’ face.
Romanowski was suspended for aday of prac-
tice, and Williams’ season is. most likely over

wife takes the hint in
what not to cook him for breakfast . . .40-year-
old wicketkeeper-batsman Alec Stewart ends
his 133-Test career after a 9-wicket win at the
Oval. Quoted after his final match, “There
was some good batting, some good bowling,
and it was an excellent wicket here.” Some
good talk about an excellent sport here.
Sources: espn.com, sportsnews.com,

. usatoday.com, and http://news.bbc.co.uk/sport

aturday at 1:30 p.m.
game undefeated after
igan looks to take

to the Fighting Irish.
)t0 get its second win of the
fisit Ann Arbor.

-

rrint, e-mail Sports Editor
