A documentary entitled “Transparency” will be shown in the Sprinkle Room at 7 p.m. on
Thursday. c peatapercnicy unveils the personal experience of three Muslim women and the
_ issue of Hijab, women’s dress code in Islam.

Mostly Mozart

The Charlotte Symphony Orchestra will present a Valentine’ s Day concert entitled
“Mostly Mozart”, Friday at 8 p-m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall.

Tickets are $10 for adults and $5 for students. For reservations and information call Saag
894-2135 bi enced from 10-4.

Chemistry Colloquium

Dr. Kenneth Davenport of Bayer Crop Science in Research Triangle Park, NC will lecture
at 2:30 p.m. on Monday in Martin G-10.

Davenport will present a lecture titled, “Catalytic Approaches to the Synthesis of Fine
Chemicals and Bulk Active Pharmaceuticals.” Please call (704) 894-2307 for information.

CAmMpPuUs POLICE BLOTTER

2/8 Patterson Ct. Damage to Property
Identified student fell through the roof of a fraternity during a party. Both students have been
cited and will pay for the damage.

2/8 Patterson Ct.
Underage Possession

Alcohol Violation

» 2/9 : Patterson Ct.

Alcohol Violation
Underage Possession ‘

2/9 Patterson Ct.
Underage Possession

WDAV’s new digs

Alcohol Violation

Photo courtesy WDAV

Program Director Frank Dominguez and assistant Jobie Sprinkle
work in WDAV’s new broadcast studio on Main Street acrossfrom
campus. The station will soon celebrate its $2 million home with a
live concert featuring pianist Jon Nakamatsu and Alan Black, princi-
pal cellist for the Charlotte Symphony.

it will air at 7 p.m. on Feb. 27. On March 2, the station will hold an
open house from 2 to 5 p.m. The public is invited.

Clarification
A computer error caused the wrong image to
run in place of SGA presidential candidate Charles
Washington's photo last week.
The Davidsonian regrets the error.

Cast of 60 will perform i in

‘Monologues’ this weekend

Proceeds will go to rape
crisis center in Charlotte

KATE VOGEL
Special Contributor :

Beginning Saturday, “The Vagina Mono-
logues” return to Davidson for the third year.
This year’s cast features more than 60 faculty,
staff and students performing. Eve Ensler’s
popular play in the Duke Family Performance
Hall.

* “The Vagina. Monologues” take an unmen-
tionable subject and make it into something
powerful and real.

Like any good play, “The Vagina Mono-
logues” takes you through a wide variety of
emotions for the wide variety of experiences
women have had. The entire piece is infused
with a positive energy and plenty of humor.

Meg Kimmel, a performer and Director of
College Communications, said, “Because it is
raucous and unexpected, personal, intimate,
honest, hilarious, and particularly because it
represented a new voice in theater, it has been
something of a phenomengn.”

Clare Hahneman ’05, one of this year’s per-
formers, said the “Vagina Monologues speaks
to women as a gender that has been suppressed
in exploring themselves and their limitless pos-
sibilities, but to me the message of to be self
aware, to be honest with yourself and your
partner, and to possess your sexuality in what-
ever way you desire, is a universal message.”

Contrary to one popular opinion, “The Va-
gina Monologues” are not male-bashing,
“feminazi” pieces. Kimmel said, “Certainly the
Davidson men who were in the audience in
2000 seemed to loveit. [They were] hooting and
hollering and falling out of their chairs. Maybe
it’s really about growing up as humans to allow
both sexes a kind of freedom that culturally and
socially has been hard if not impossible to come
by. . -

By using the word vagina, performers and
audiences alike can confront the taboo of sexu-
ality in our ‘society and openly address the
horrible issues of violence against women. Vio-
lence against women—our friends, moms, sis-
ters, aunts, girlfriends, and classmates—is
everyone’s issue.

“The Vagina Monologues” are part of a glo-
bal movement called V-Day, which is dedi-
cated to stopping violence against women and
girls.

Ensler teamed up with V-Day and began
college, national, and worldwide vagina mono-
logues campaigns because she was moved by

The 2001 cast of “Monologues.”

the personal testimony of women, related to her
after her performances.

Stunned by the widespread extent of violence
against women, Ensler committed the perfor-
mances of the “Monologues” to raise money for
organizations dedicated to ending that violence.

Violence against women is a serious and
pervasive problem. According to the UN Popu-
Tations Survey from May 2000, one in every
three women will experience violence at some
point in her lifetime, most likely by an intimate
partner.

In.the last five years, the V-Day movement,
through performances of “The Vagina Mono-
logues,” has raised over $14 million dollars for
local and international groups working to end
violence against women and girls.

All money from the performances at
Davidson will go to the United Family Services
Victim Assistance Rape Crisis Center in Char-
lotte.

UFS is a multi-service education and coun-
seling center in Charlotte, NC for individuals,
children, and families. They offer a Rape Crisis
Center, Child Abuse Prevention, and the Shel-
ter for Battered Women and Victim Assistance

This year’s performance also includes two V-
World pieces, which focus on a vision of a
world without violence against women. Each
cast will write their own monologue, and a
group of male participants will write a mono-
logue and perform each night.

Performances will be held Saturday, Sunday,
and Monday at 8 p.m. in Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall.

Tickets are $8 and $12 for students, faculty,
and staff, and are on-sale now at the Union
Ticket Office.

Not sure how much dough is on
your CatCard? Check the Web

New service should be
up and running this week

MALLory MACDONALD
Staff Writer

Ever Consider how much money you spend
on your CatCard?

Well, now students can check their cat card
status by simply clicking a button. Davidson
has created a web page that allows students to
log on using their social security number, name
and network password.

The page should be up and running late this
week.

The new program allows students to inspect
their balance and bonus bucks, as well as the
time, date, and location of every transaction.
When students use their CatCards at the book-
store, for instance, the receipt only shows the
declining balance.

Now students can monitor their spending as
well as check for possible mistakes, according
to Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Ser-
vices

As with so many of Davidson’s policies,
there is a confidentiality clause that guarantees
a student’s privacy to his or her own page.
Parents cannot access this page unless given the
necessary information from their son or daugh-
ter. If further questions of security arise, a pin
number can be added to the criteria to open the
page.

Toaccess the page one simply has to go to the
Davidson home page, click on Administration,
then Auxiliary services, and finally CatCard
Services. There, the page has a link to the
individual pages.

In the future Davidson hopes to allow stu-
dents to make deposits through this site, en-
abling students to add money whenever they
want and from the privacy of their own room.
Log in now and find out just how much “mo-
nopoly money” you have.
