\ ‘THe Davipsonian

Elections, from page 1

Sigma fraternity and the establishment of the ©

historically black fraternity Alpha Phi Alpha,
the nature of the Court - and of social life in
general at Davidson is soon to change. One of
this administration’s main goals will be to keep
students involved in the decisions affecting

level and will be able to pick up right where Ileft
off.”

Of Hubbard, Patterson added, “I think that
she has some definite plans for the SGA and...
is concerned about the campus and wants to
make sure that all students enjoy their time here

“We will work on projects that are visible, so that
students will no longer have to wonder what their
student government has been up to .”

- Charles Washington ‘04, SGA President-elect

Davidson’s evolving social atmosphere.”

Hubbard added about social life on the Court,
“T want to make sure that students realize that
the Code of Responsibility extends to all as-
pects of student life even the Court.”

Both Washington and Hubbard hope for
many joint efforts with other student organiza-
tions. Said Washington, “We will seek more
than communication; we will seek coopera-
tion.”

Without this cooperation, they realize the
painstaking efforts of reevaluating the Honor

Code and Code of Responsibility put forth by

the current SGA could be in vain.

“IT want to work with PCC and the Honor
Council,” said Hubbard, “to reinforce [the
Honor Code and Code of Responsibility] with
first year students, especially in the week before
First Night Down and Self-Selection.”

The newly-elected SGA officers also hope to
make their administration the talk of the campus
through many student-oriented initiatives. “We
will work on projects that are visible,” said
Washington, “so that students will no longer
have to wonder what their student government
has been up to.”

Current SGA president Gray Patterson has
full confidence in the individuals elected. Of
Washington, he said, “[Charles] has seen how
SGA works for the past year on a very detailed

~ at Davidson.”

‘ Winning the of-
fice of Union
_ Board President by
- a close margin,
_ Sperling also dis-
_ cussed plans to in-
- crease event pub-
- licity at Sunday’s
debate. He stressed
making the Union
_ a more important
part of student life
and a bigger bill-

' Pim.
Adam Sperling

board for future events.

Kate Fiedler, current Union Board president,
was nothing less than excited about the the
Union Board’s future.

She said jokingly of Sperling’s adjustment
into his new position, “He’s been living in the
office for a while, so he’ll feel right at home.’’

Adding. her. wishes for the future, Fiedler
said, “I hope that the new officers will recruit
and form an energetic group that is excited by
the possibilities and aware of the challenge of
the Union Board.”

With the fresh new group of officers elected
to both the SGA and Union Board, the student
body awaits another productive and coopera-
tive year.

The Foundation forthe Defense of Democracies
Undergraduate Fellowship Program

intensive two week

expenses.
FDD is a non-profit

abolish intemational terrorism.

The Foundation for the Defense of Democracies is seeking
qualified undergraduate applicants to parlicipate in a year - long
fellowship program, “Defending Democracy, Defeating Terrorism’.

The fellowship program will commence in early August 2003 wilh a
course in terrorism studies at Tel Aviv University in
Israel. Using Israel as a case study, Fellows will learn about the
threat terrorism poses to democralic societies around the world.
Fellows will interact wilh academics, diplomats and military officials
from India, Israel, Jordan, Turkey, and the United States.

FDD Fellows will be provided with all room, board, and travel

and non-partisan think tank that promotes
informed debate about policies and positions that will most effectively

Interested students should visit our website
www. defenddemocracyorg and complete the on-line application

Please send questions to fellows@defenddemocracy.org

SGA allocates $10,000
to help fund joint projects

“Improve Davidson Fund
Committee” will oversee
future big-ticket endeavors

GEORGIE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

The SGA voted Thursday to install the Im-
prove Davidson Fund in order to better serve the
College’s chartered organizations and more
efficiently distribute money.

The ID fund will be put into place this year as
a trial run.

The objective of the fund is to allow several
organizations to work together in order -to ac-
quire money—up to $10,000—in the name of a
common cause.

For example, several organizations may
come together to bring a big name speaker tothe
campus.

The ID fund was developed as a result of
dealings with the Activities Tax Council. The
ATC noticed that small amounts of money were
going to different groups for the same objective.
The ID fund allows for more money to go
toward a common purpose.

Chartered groups can now work together to

develop and present an itemized budget and
action plan for the money with the assistance of
a faculty or staff adviser.

Composed of the ATC chairman, the SGA
treasurer, the Dean of Students, the Director of
Student Activities, the Union Board President
and two non-SGA students appointed by the
SGA president, the Improve Davidson Fund
Committee will meet to decide which groups
will receive the money.

The ATC will then present that money to the
groups before any other groups receive their
allocations.

The ATC is in charge of distributing the
Student Activities Tax, which is a comprehen-
sive fee for all students.

The council has recently allocated money to
Davidson Outdoors for parts and repairs for the
red community bicycles and also for new kay-
aks.

They also gave money to the Union Board
that will go toward’ weekly ‘fiovies, thé’ oft
house, and Spring Frolics.

The Union Board was in a money pinch due
to the cost of bringing Dave Matthews to
Davidson. Contrary to rumor, however, the
Union Board spent only $20,000 for the con-
cert.

Off-campus FIJI house
confronts declining size

House reaching out to
freshmen in hopes of
boosting membership

By Ros HEmprick
Staff Writer

Among controversy surrounding fraternity
life on the Davidson campus, several students
have begun to rethink the role of these fraterni-
ties in our community. The Davidson chapter of
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity hopes to re-
kindle the values that its members see as found-
ing elements of the brotherhood system itself.

“We have a renewed sense of strength and
purpose as to why we have fraternities in the
first place,” says Rob Neuman ’04, President of
the Delta Kappa chapter.

Phi Gamma Delta, or FUJI, as it is commonly
known around campus, is a Patterson Court
organization with an off-campus house that has
been chartered at Davidson since 1923. Its
members choose not only to be separate from
Patterson Court in terms of location, but also in
terms of social philosophy.

“Whatever people are seeing in fraternities at
Davidson isn’t what they’ re looking for,” says
Neuman, citing low Patterson Court enrollment
numbers in recent years. “Other groups tend to
present themselves in terms of partying. We
want to spell out the benefits of the fraternity

system itself.”

While their fraternity may not have the expo-
sure that other Court organizations possess, FIJI
members enjoy their low-key status. The house
serves more as a hangout for the brothers than
any other function, due to the fact that the
building is not a residence for its members, like
other campus fraternities. Unlike the other or-
ganizations, which rent their houses from the
school, FIJI is proud to own its house indepen-
dently.

“The house is anice place to go, gather, watch
TV, study... It’s like a clubhouse,” summarizes
Neuman.

While the members of Phi Gamma Delta
appreciate their closely-knit organization, they
may soon be feeling the pinch due to the small
size of the group—a total of eight members—six
seniors and two juniors.

With the possibility of waning membership
in mind, the fraternity is hosting an informa-
tional meeting Thursday evening at 8pm in the
900 Room, with the aim of spreading the word
and Values of FIJI to prospective members.

“Our size hurts,” Neuman says. “It’s hard to
get the message out with only eight guys. By
taking this new approach we’ re hoping to over-
come that.”

Neuman’s goal for the meeting and for the
incoming pledge class is to stress the idea that
the fraternity would be “built from the ground
up”, according to the makeup of its new mem-
bers and the cornerstones of Phi Gamma
Delta—Friendship, Service, Knowledge, Mo-
rality and Excellence.
