Staff Editorial
Turning the tables: a
mid-term “review”

Ah, the end of February. Having struggled through the snow
and scandal that marked the first half of this semester, every-
one is ready for a break.

The only things standing between us and our week-’ o-free-
dom are afew more midterms. Inthe spirit of The Review, The
Davidsonian evaluates the school’s performance to date.
Drumroll, please:

Academics - Pass/fail is due too early, work keeps us up too
late and spring fever is not going to help.

Admissions - Hard at work on those decisions, the Admis-
sions staff is no doubt feeling the strain. Godspeed to the cor-
ner of Griffith, and let’s hope Alpha helps.

Administration - Make an appointment with Bobby. His
office has the best candy on campus.

Athletics - How about those Wildcats? Fans rocked the
house on Tuesday despite a loss to Charleston. March Mad-
ness, here we come.

Library - Still green, still bright, but don’t miss the exten-
sive National Geographic collection in the basement.

Social Life - Yeah.

Student Life - Read the paper. Davidson students continue
to be their bright, ambitious selves, inviting congressmen to
spend a day in the bubble, turning out en masse to debate glo-

bal issues and starting organizations to fund medical research.
Mad props, kids.

Union - Davidson Idol was fabulous. The Café closes too
early on Tuesday nights (when this paper goes to press... .late).

Random suggestions (from actual students): HBO in the
lounges. A closed-circuit Davidson television channel. Pizza
bagels in the Union Café. Sinks thataccommodate Brita pitch-
ers. Warm weather. World peace.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
Matt Garfield
Managing Editor
Caroline Hauser
News Editors
Amee Patel & Brandon Carroll .
Perspectives Editor
David Crow
Arts & Living Editors
Derek Loh & Chris Schmader
Sports Editors.
Richard Connolly & Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Eron Earley-Thiele & Matt Whited
_ Advertising & Business Managers
Jeff Larrimore & Gregg Wallace
~~..Cireulation Manager”
‘Laura Filosa

*
oo

s= '
R=
x

Spring break comes
none too soon

When reading “Don Quijote”, I’m really straddling a catama-
ran with a Long Island Iced Tea dangling from my freshly tanned
fingers. “Jolly good, ole’ girl” chants the Clooney clone that is
currently navigating us, bare-chested and sweaty.

In my pre-Spring Break lunacy, the VAC starts to resemble a
giant shuffleboard court, and dodging the Chambers construction
becomes a drunken limbo contest. But c’ mon—who doesn’t
mistake the custodial staff for taut, oiled cabana boys?

At two days and counting, I am convinced that “the man” is
pumping the 900 Room full of mental steroids meant to enhance
peak “nerd” performance, but ultimately causing these unfortu-
nate hallucinogenic side effects (note: I felt a little too “touched”
after Thursday’s “Davidson Reads”, if you know what I’m say-
ing).

Whether you like pina coladas or getting caught in the rain,
Spring Break is an ever-pleasant reminder that the “cool” quad-
rant of our taxed brain does indeed still function.

Even if you don’t plan on melanoma-ing it on some tropic isle,
or sipping Irish coffee on the slopes, S.B. is still a necessary little
respite from the cold embrace of a carrel. Sure some choose de-
bauchery (See “Girls Gone Wild: Mardi Gras Edition’’), but oth-
ers enjoy sewing shawls as Michael Bolton croons “When A Man
Loves A Woman” (See “Girls Gone Mild: Crocheting On Cam-
era’). Both are very respectable options, and lead me to assert my
unwavering faith in that old adage, “Whatever floats your boat.”

Ok, I don’t have the attention span needed to finish my column
properly. Why? Because I am writing with one hand and packing
my toiletry bag in the other.

I have already practiced several new sunscreen application
techniques and am so ready to start shirking any and all of my
responsibilities.

In short, it’s time for a break, and not a short one.

Ali Fitzgerald ’04

e e
first in debates

Two great events took place at Davidson this past week. The
first was a lively discussion concerning United States policy to-
wards Iraq. The second was the Union’s screening of Michael
Moore’s documentary, “Bowling for Columbine”.

At a campus where political considerations generally take a
backseat to the rigorous workload, it was encouraging to see sub-
stantial student participation at both the movie and the debate.

Yet while these affairs were mostly productive and insightful,
both were marred by a small degree of dishonesty and pointless
partisan shots. ;

Michael Moore’s film tackles several pertinent issues and asks
tough questions regarding America’s violent culture. His politi-
cally driven documentary is extremely successful in combining
stark images, insightful commentary, and humor — the result of
which makes an important political issue appealing to students
like myself. .

Therefore I was disheartened to read,
in Forbes magazine (“Bowl-o-
Drama”, Daniel Lyons, 12.9.02) that
certain parts of Moore’s film were con-
trived, deliberately dishonest and, in
one case, even doctored.

Moore’s commentary on local me-
dia sensationalism seemed particularly
appropriate for our community. To ef-
fectively demonstrate his point, Moore visually barrages us with
local news clips covering ridiculous stories that intend to hype
public fear.

Yet Moore’s culminating salvo on the issue is a shot of Presi-
dent Bush warning the nation of increased terrorist activity. Be-
‘lieve it or not, in our post Sept. 11 world, terrorism does in fact
pose a greater threat than suburban rattlesnakes, or perhaps closer
to home, a dead goose. Moore is unable to resist the opportunity
to take unnecessary and disingenuous partisan shots.

Moore’s movie also has been shown to contain erroneous or
distorted facts. Certain clips of footage have been doctored. The
shocking opening scene where Moore is handed a free rifle for
opening a bank account was staged.

Moore’s movie makes several valid arguments, but they are
discredited by the movie’s lack of a fundamental integrity. In an
attempt to clearly exhibit the problem, Moore resorts to tech-
niques of exaggeration and hype. Ironically, Moore falls victim
to the very practice his movie condemns.

Perhaps it is my history background that has taught me that
being intellectually honest is of utmost importance. When writ-
ing aresearch paper, one does not mold quotes and sources to their
thesis but quite the opposite.

Dr. McMillen taught me that although a contradictory source
may complicate your argument, it will at least serve for a more
honest and interesting interpretation. Oscar Wilde’ s maxim holds
true: “The pure and simple truth is rarely pure and never simple.”

Likewise, we should not allow dishonesty and partisan differ-
ences to blind us in our discussion on Iraq. At times, last week’s
Iraq debate degenerated into juvenile squabbling that did little to
promote genuine discourse. .

As Dr. Ortmayer stated in his introductory remarks last
Wednesday evening, intellectual debate is the lifeblood of our
democracy; let’s just make sure that it is a frank and honest one.

Laurence Birdsey '04

and now ADOSA’ FILOSA
WITH LAURA FILOSA

College Student me

toda

