upcoming trips.

Disa iy al cond exc eae ad. Visit
www davidson.edu/do for more information and to lean about other :

CAs POLice biLOlIER

9/9/03

Residence Hall

Larceny of Safe

Unknown person(s) entered room in resident hall and removed a safe containing approxi-
mately $140 worth of property. Still under investigation.

9/14/03

Ridge Road

Assault

Unknown person punched student in the face without provocation. Incident still under

investigation.

9/12/03

Patterson Court

Larceny of Mixer

Unknown person(s) removed a mixer from an eating house without permission. Esti-

mated loss is $400. Still under investigation.

Students with information about campus
crimes can contact Campus Police anonymously
by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

Verizon deal to improve cell
phoné reception

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Staff Writer

In an effort to improve cell phone reception
on campus, Davidson has begun negotiations
with Verizon to install an on-campus antenna.
The antenna, approximately one foot in height, is
to be installed on top of the E. H. Little Library.

According to Marcia Makl, Director of
Networks and Systems, topography is primarily
to blame for the poor cell phone reception on
Davidson’s campus. Although Davidson is one
of the highest points in Mecklenburg County, the
northern part of campus lies in a valley, a factor
that greatly contributes to the difficulty of cellu-

lar connection. As a result, buildings such as the

Alvarez Union, Baker Sports Complex, senior
apartments, sophomore apartments, Tomlinson
and Patterson Court buildings all receive poor cell
phone service.

“Phone reception down the hill is less than
adequate,” said Nia Pleasants 06. .

Tomlinson resident Dorsett Clark ’05 said,
“od don't get reception im my rooms realy
annoying.”

The construction material of some of the
the poor service. This material is sometimes
difficult for cell phone signals to penetrate,
explaining the poor reception in some of the

older buildings on campus also contributes to

residence halls. Another factor preventing clear
phone calls is the distance between campus and
the nearest cellular tower located off Exit 25.

In additior'to providing better cell phone
reception for students and faculty, the new an-
tenna would also enhance reception for the town
of Davidson. In exchange for allowing Verizon
to install its antenna on college property,
Davidson would enjoy improved service with-
out paying a cent.

Calling it a “win-win situation,” Informa-
tion Technology Service Director John Casey
explained that Verizon would be able to provide
better service to its customers, while students
would benefit from clearer phone calls.

The College has been discussing the pos-
sibility of a new antenna with Verizon for the
past two years. During this time, various loca-
tions on campus were surveyed for the antenna’s
installation. While it was decided that the roof
of the library would provide the best coverage,
other possibilities included the light post by
Richardson Residence Hall, Knobloch Campus
Center and DCPC.

Because of its small size, the antenna will
not be visible from campus, and the antenna’s
installation will have no visual effect on the cam-
pus environment. Should current negotiations
yield a contract, antenna installation could be-
gin as soon as the end of the semester.

‘WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2003

CVS, Main Street’s newest addition, is the first of many additions
which will change the face of downtown Davidson.

New CVS anchors Main Street

By LesLie HEMPSON

Staff Writer

When students returned to Davidson this
semester, they visited such Main Street enter-
prises as Summit Coffee, The Soda Shop, and
the new CVS. Although the first two have been
integral parts of downtown for years, the latter
is an example of the recent development that is
slowly changing the face of Davidson.

Town planner Lindsey Hobbs, Jr., said
that Harris Teeter originally sought approval
to build on the current CVS site in 2000. The
corporation eventually dropped the project, and
CVS initiated its own approval process in 2000
or 2001. After the town of Davidson accepted
CVS’s development proposal in March 2002,
The Stephens Company began construction on
the store.

Hobbs stressed that he and his co-work-
ers at the Planning Department took great pains
to ensure that the CVS building fit in with
neighboring stores. They insisted that CVS
place an entrance on Main Street and assign
most of its parking spaces to the area behind
the store.

Randy Kincaid, mayor of Davidson, said,
“We hold businesses to real strict design stan-
dards. We’re not going to have any franchise
architecture. That building CVS is in, is just
night and day different from ordinary CVS
buildings. While they’re not unattractive,
they’ re just not appropriate for our downtown.”

The response to CVS’s move has been
mostlypositive among students. Jennifer
Mickle ’0S said, “I think they did a pretty good
job of fitting it into Main Street architecturally.”

Emmanuel Jose’ ’06 agreed, saying, “I
like the way it fits into the rest of the town.”

Other students questioned the necessity
of moving the drugstore a third of a mile away
from its previous location.

Krista Heiner ’06 commented, “Just be-
cause something is more convenient doesn’t
mean they have to build it.”

Kincaid explained that CVS relocated to
Main Street in an attempt to increase profits.
He said, “I think their motivation was’ pretty
clear. From what I un d from them, their
stand-alone stores just do lots more business
than the ones that are in shopping centers.”

Hobbs believes the drugstore’s decision
has paid off, noting, “Their business has really
boomed just from moving to this location.” He
claims that some citizens did not even realize
there was a CVS before the new store opened.

CVS’s departure has left a hole in the
Sadler Square shopping center. Its former build-
ing is currently tenantless, and its former neigh-
bors can no longer depend upon it to draw cus-
tomers to their stores.

Dr. Karen Hales, MacArthur Assistant
Professor of Biology, said, “The only worry is
what’s going to happen to the Sadler Square
area because [CVS] was the anchor for it.”
Neither Kincaid nor Hobbs knew of any im-
mediate plans to bring another business to the
Square.

Hobbs expressed his approval of the
CVS move, saying, “Traditionally, if you go to
a small downtown, the anchors were a drug-
store, a bank, and a courthouse or town hall.
They were central anchors for downtown re-
tail.” He also promised that CVS’s presence
would bring new “energy” and “business” to
Main Street.

Still, in any town, especially a small one,
it is often difficult to encourage development
without harming some of the independent stores
that make the town unique.

Kincaid argued that future development
would not necessarily pose a problem. ~

He stated, ““Growth doesn’t have to be
destructive. It’s the growth rate that matters.
So we’ ve been growing at two to three percent
a year. We can handle that. You can’t really
grow any faster and shouldn’t grow any faster
than your infrastructure can handle.”

- Kincaid admitted that traffic has become
a problem in recent years. Consequently, he and
his staff formulated a street connectivity project.
This project requires town officials and develop-
ers to connect previously unconnected streets and
eliminate dead ends so that traffic will be dispersed
away from Main Street. Four street connectivity
efforts have already been completed.

Although Hobbs denied any knowledge of
additional plans to alter Main Street, it is likely
that downtown Davidson will continue to grow.
He said, “‘We would love to see some redevelop-
ment done downtown as long as it was appropri-
ate and fit the town.”

Fitness, from page 1

being played merely depends on when you go
into the center. Faculty and administrators tend
to dominate the mornings while thereis a higher
percentage of student use in the afternoons.
Adam Chalker ’04 explained, “I’m usually
here in the ‘mornings, and it’s not a problem.”
Lewis said, “I have to turn up my walkman
really loudly to drown out the music,” refer-

_ fing mostly to her experiences exercising in

the afternoons.

Though there are some suggestions as to a
resolution, the controversy seems at a stand-
still between those calling for freedom and

those who simply want to work out in peace, ~

Thornberry said, “This is not a First Amend-

ment issue. We are not a public institution.”
She noted other college prerogatives, like the
ability to restrict access to college property.
“Because we own the facilities, we can set
up the rules on [how] they’Il be used.”
Stroud advocates that people deal with the
issue on an instance-related basis, saying, “If
someone finds someone else’s musicoffensive,
then they should directly engage in some sort
of dialogue with that person.” ;
Others suggest that everyone simply bring a

- personal discman when they go to exercise.

News Editor Brandon Carroll contributed
to this article.
