THE DaAvIpSONIAN ,

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2003 11

Successful fall leaves high

By WALKER Saik
Staff Writer

The Davidson football team outscored the
Coastal Carolina Chanticleers 27-21 .. . in the
last two and a half quarters of the game.

The first one and a half were not so pretty,
consisting of one big play after another by the
Chanticleer squad, the first football team
fielded in school history by the scholarship
football program.

The second play of the game set the tone,
with a 63-yard touchdown run by the Chanti-
cleer running back who amassed 203 yards on
the day. Coastal Carolina would proceed to
score on their first five possessions, including
a blocked punt in the Davidson endzone to
finish the early romping at 31-0 with 12:48 left
in the half.

“Scholarships make a hell of a difference,”
said head coach Mike Toop. “They were just
better . . . If you can control the line of
scrimmage, more often than not, you’re gong
to win the game, and [Coastal Carolina] did
just that.” —

If nothing else, though, the "Cats hung in
there. Being down 31-0 on the cool November
afternoon could have led to players calling ita
day, but fans standing nearby could still here
players pumped up, believing they could win.

Before halftime, Davidson drove methodi-
cally down the field with QB Tom Cook ’06 at
the helm. On 3rd and 3 from the Chanticleer
13, running back John Leverett ’05, who be-
came the third Wildcat ever to rush for 2,000
yards in his career, rushed in for the score.
Cook’s pass attempt on the two-point try,
however, was no good, setting up the halftime
score of 31-6.

Then, to start off the 2nd half, Cook, who
finished a decent 13-27 with a pair of touch-
downs and interceptions, connected with re-
ceiver Brett Dioguardi ’07 for a sweet 48-yard
touchdown pass, Suddenly, the ’Cats were
inching closer to making it a ball game again
with the score at 31-13.

But Coastal Carolina put it to the Davidson
defense Friday by rushing for over 400 yards
and controlling the game tempo at will. They
went on a 14-0 run that seemingly put the

game out of reach by capitalizing ondefensive .

: : photo by Peter Roady
Quarterback Tom Cook ’06 was sacked six times during the loss.

New week, same result:
Football ends 0-6 at home

and special teams mix-ups. These mix-ups
resulted in a 49-yard rushing touchdown and
an 87-yard punt return that knocked the wind
out of players and fans alike.

“This is reality I-AA football,” said Toop.
“Something this program hasn’t done since
*87 or 88, and our guys this year realize from
a physical standpoint what we need to be to get
successful at this level.”

Davidson refused to give up again, though,
and bounced back to put two more scores on
the board: a touchdown catch by Barrett
Johnson ’04 and a touchdown run by Leverett.

When asked about the moral victory of
playing tough to the end, Toop refused to
accept anything, saying, “When you try to get
positives out of those positives, you know
you’ ve got a suspect team and a suspect pro-
gram.

“On the same token, though, I was real
proud of the guys. We got the touchdown, and
it was a definitely a game again, but we just
couldn’t make the plays to get the ball back,”
continued Toop. “The bottom line is winning
the game, though, and that wasn’t done.”

The one difference between losses early in
the season and now, though, is the sudden
struggle of the once dominant special teams.

“The tough thing with special teams is when
you get a lot of injuries, you’ve got to continu-
ally shuffle things around a bit and you don’t
get a lot of continuity,” explained Toop.

Another story of the game was the break-
down in protection. After allowing only three
sacks in the past five games, the offensive line

‘gave up six on Friday, leaving Cook with little

time to let the plays develop on offense.

Upnextis rival Georgetown, who Davidson
has not beat since the current seniors were
freshmen. Although it was a close game last
year, it will be interesting to see how this
struggling squad can cope with its late-season
slide while facing a tough last opponent. As
the seniors finish their Davidson careers, Toop
has no doubt the squad will come out firing
this Friday.

“This is a rivalry that our guys won’t have a
problem getting up for,” he said. “[We] don’t
like them too much, and with respect to every-
one else on our schedule, this is the only team
that is on the same level academically.”

By Erik SwANsoN

Staff Writer

Last fall, the men’s golf team finished in the
top five at only one tournament, which hap-
pened to be a first-place finish at the Sea Trail
Intercollegiate tournament. After defending
their Sea Trail title this September, the Wild-
cats have gone on a run, garnering top-five
honors in each of their last four competitions.

Most recently, Davidson competed in the
Charleston Southern Fall Invitational, finish-
ing with strong, though slightly dissatisfying,
results. The event, which featured 15 teams,
was held at the par-71 Coosaw Creek Country
Club in Charleston from November 3-4. After
Monday’s first-round action, the Wildcats were
tied for fourth-place. Behind the strong play of
several young players, Davidson climbed up
to third-place on Tuesday, concluding their
successful fall season just eight strokes behind
the champions, The Citadel.

The weather was perfect and the course was
beautiful and playing far easier than most the
Wildcats have seen this fall. The men felt well
prepared, especially with their strong results
lately, and they were confident heading into
the tournament as the top-ranked team.

Dan Walker ’05 and Tim Dillon 06 led the
team on Day One, each posting a 71. The
spotlight of Day Two focused on Alex Knoll
’07, who carded a 70 to tie for the third best
score of the day. But the Wildcats fell short of
their first-place goal, despite finishing four
players in the top 30.

Dillon and Christian Davis ’06 were the
only Davidson players to finish the tourna-
ment in the top 20. Dillon finished tied for

hopes for spring golf season

sixth place with a one-over 143, continuing
the strong play that he has displayed through-
out the fall. Dillon has finished in the top 15 in
his last four competitions, demonstrating im-
provement from the already strong skills he
exhibited as a freshman last year.

Davis is also showing improvement from
his successful freshman campaign. For his
third and sixteenth place showings at the Cats’
two October tournaments, Davis was named
the men’s golf SoCon Athlete of the Month.

With such strong results leading up to their
fall season finale, the players were hoping to
take home the title from Charleston. Already
this fall the Wildcats had beaten the two teams
who ended up finishing ahead of them in
Charleston, The Citadel and host Charleston
Southern.

Davis feels that the season ended on some-
what of a sour note: “We had high hopes for
this tournament, and, while third-place is noth-
ing to be upset about, we felt we had a great
opportunity to win.”

While the fall season may not have ended on
the high note they were hoping for, golfers
cannot be ashamed with their performance
this fall. Davis reflected on the first half of
their season, labeling the fall campaign as
“overall pretty successful. We had lots of
improvement, and we know what we need to
work on for the spring.”

While the team may have been disappointed
with their results in Charleston, the third-place
finish combined with their other strong per-
formances this fall demonstrates the great
strides Davidson golf has made since last
season and bodes well for their success in the
spring.

"BEE for the KIDS!

CoHo's 2nd Annual

CHARITY FRISBEE GOLF TOURNAMENT
All proceeds benefit The Summer Collaboration for Children

~summer camp for ALL kids-
$5 per person
Sign up as a team of 4 or as an individual.
Friday, November 14th
2:00 -- 5:00 pm

Come anytime!!
Awards Presentation at 6:00 pm

First-timers play for their own PRIZES!
PRIZES from Bellacino's, Main Street Books, and more!
Dollar Dogs and Lots of Root Beer!

Email sawallett to pre-register

