. ARTS <

ie

By SARAH ROBINSON
Special Contributor

Two Davidsonians have transformed aclas-

sic literary and pop-culture figure into a musi- -

cal. “Frankenstein: the Rock Opera” began as
nothing more than trying to make a regular
English assignment more interesting. Justin
Perkinson ’01 and Ty Morse ’04 now have a
complete piece of musical theater on their
hands.

Morse and Perkinson, along with Jon
Greenlee, have turned their one-time English
project into a full-scale retelling of the classic
tale, blending modern and classic and creating
an eerie world, trapped between reality and
nightmare. Trying to remain true to Shelley’s
words, the three have followed the original
story with an accuracy not always seen in ad-
aptations, while also adding a new interpreta-
tion to the tale. Beyond the script, the costumes
will be period, and the set will establish the
scene of mystery, murder, and intrigue with its
surrealistic design.

‘Because of his commitments as theater de-
partment chair, Professor Joe Gardner ’69, the
show’s artistic director, initially did not have
time to pursue production of “Frankenstein.”
He was approached again seven months ago.
“When I listened to the music, I had a good
feeling about it,” says Gardner and he proposed
the show to the department as the main-stage
show for the fall. The past summer was spent
scoring and preparing “Frankenstein” for the
stage. Gardner respects the authors and has
contributed his experience and skill as designer
and director to help the show move froma story
on compact disc to a theatrical production on
stage.

Hanley Smith ’07, one of the sixteen cast
members, sees the show as a great way to “not
just be involved, but to be creators and it’s pretty
darn cool.” As part of the ensemble, she and
other ensemble members will not get a break

They’ve created a monster

during the show. Smith will go from being a
dead person to mob person to sailor and finally,
to Ernest, Victor Frankenstein’s younger
brother. The importance of the ensemble has
made the show a significant event for her, stat-
ing “everyone is very aware of being a part of
something bigger.”

Barratt Park ’06, who plays Frankenstein’s
father Alphonse, observes,’ “this play is neater
than other movies, because it focuses on the
monster’ s feelings.”’ Abandoned by his creator,
the monster faces the harsh reality of the world
as his master and the world reject him. Receiv-
ing compliments of his kindness from a blind
man, the monster is kicked out of the house
upon the arrival of the man’s children. The
disdain of society, based on his looks, ostra-
cizes the monster, forcing him to confront Fran-
kenstein and demand a mate.

Gardner sights the interesting contrast be-
tween the scientist who lives in his head and
his monster. The monster, in emotion and
knowledge, is like a child and asks the ques-
tion (Why am I here ?) that Frankenstein can-
not answer. Frankenstein’ s toying with life and
death brings consequences unimaginable as the
show reaches its climax.

“All the ingredients are there: to have par-
ents there, to witness what was created by stu-
dents like their children, to me, would be enor-
mously satisfying,” say Gardner when observ-
ing the occasion for Davidson students to bring
their families to the show over family week-
end.

The production serves as a great opportu-
nity to tie Davidson students of yesterday to
the Davidson students of today. The new pro-
duction provides Davidson with fresh, mod-
ern music set to an old tale, one that questions
the morality of life, death, and the in-between.
With set designs to admire, a cast eager to per-
form, and the writers at hand,“Frankenstein:
the Rock Opera” is an ideal attraction for Fam-
ily Weekend 2003.

This week in Tyler Tallman Hall...

Thursday, September 11: Duo Piano Recital: Cynthia Lawing and
Gloria Cook, Tyler Taliman Hall, 8 p.m.

Sunday, September 14: Chamber Music Concert, Tyler Tallman

Hall, 8 p.m.

Tuesday, September 16: Musical Interludes: Music at Lunchtime!

Tyler Tallman Hall, 12:30 p.m.

a
®
P=
®
fis
x

.
7

Although we pass the larg-
est manmade lake in North
Carolina almost everyday, not
many people know what Lake
Norman really has to offer.
Lake Norman was formed as
a result of the construction of
the Cowans Ford Dam built by
the Duke Power Company to
generate energy forthe greater
Charlotte area. The lake’s sur-
face area is 32,510 acres with
520 miles of shoreline. In
1962 Duke Power Company
donated 1,328 acres of this land to form the
Lake Norman State Park, maintaining thirteen
miles of shoreline.

Lake Norman State Park provides a recre-
ational center for boating, hiking, fishing,
camping and mountain biking. There are vari-
ous campsites at $12 per day that include tent
pads, picnic tables and grills limited to six
people at each site. For avid fishermen, the park
not only has access to Lake Norman fishing,
but also contains its own, smaller lake within

sae

‘ees ee
re
la

An aerial view of the state park

Théater Preview”

LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
* WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 10, 2003

the park grounds. The fish found
in the Park Lake include crappie,
bluegill, yellow perch and bass,
and state fishing regulations must
be upheld. The NC Wildlife Re-
sources Commission Regulations
can be found at newildlife.org.

For mountain bikers, the 4.2
mile-long Itusi Trail is a single
track trail through pine and hard-
wood forests. The trail is designed
for both beginners and interme-
diate riders and will soon be
lengthened to 10 miles. The Itusi
Trail is also open to hikers, while an additional
hike in the Park is the 6.7 mile Lake Shore Trail.
This trail runs along the shoreline at a moder-
ate hiking level and begins at the parking lot
for the group camping area. The Short Turn
Trail just past the trailhead will take you ona
3.9 mile hike.

For apacked lunch or evening cookout, there
are two picnic areas that include tables, grills
and drinking water. A designated swimming
area and beach can be found next to the south-
ernmost picnic area. Access to the park and des-
ignated parking areas are free of charge, yet
camping is by permit only. Camping permits
are available from the Park office between 8
a.m. and 5 p.m. on weekdays.

To get to Lake Norman State Park from cam-
pus, take I-77 northbound to exit 42. Travel
north on US 21 to Troutman and turn left onto
Wagner Street. State Park Road will be on your
right. Park hours: September- 8 a.m. until 8
p.m.; October- 8 a.m. until 7 p.m.; November
through February- 8 a.m. until 6 p.m. For more
information, call (704) 528-6350. ‘

Slapstick one-act this weekend

By STEVE KALISKI
Staff Writer

Even though the 2003-04 Davidson theatre
season does not officially debut until “Fran-
kenstein: The Rock Opera” makes its splashy
world premiere in late October, drama bugs
can satisfy their performance itch as soon as
this week, when the slapstick children’s one-
act “My Client Curley” takes to the stage.

This short play, written by Norman Corwin,
provides enough broad humor to satisfy kids
of all ages and enough brilliantly understated
throwaway dialogue to delight the most jaded
college student. “Curley,” an exact stage rep-
lica of a 1940s radio broadcast, tracks the
shocking success of a dancing caterpillar who
captures the imagination of the entire country.

While walking one day, a struggling agent
(Steve Kaliski ’07) stumbles across Stinky
(Ryan Hastings ’05), a co-dependent, har-
monica-playing young boy who recently dis-
covered that his new pet caterpillar named
Curley likes to boogie to the sounds of the
classic Nat King Cole song, “Yes, Sir, That’s
My Baby.” With the help of the salivating news
media, the agent and Stinky join forces to make
Curley a cultural icon.

Featuring energetic ensemble work from
Catie Cunning ’07, Paige Mattox ’07, Gardner

Movie Extras/Models Needed

No Experience Required
All looks and ages

Earn $100 - $300 a day

1-888-820-0167, ex. U260

Rordam °07, Hanley Smith °07, and Annie
Wadman ’06, “Curley” bounds along for alight,
fast-paced half hour of entertainment.

This show also marks the effort of student
director Melanie Farmer ’06 to respond to the
high demand for children’s entertainment at
Davidson. After tremendous succegs with last
year’s production of “Jack and the Beanstalk,”
Farmer arranged independently to produce
“Curley” as a warm-up show for the new school
year. With the assistance of stage manager Dan
Coslett ’05 and the support of the theatre de-
partment, she worked quickly and tirelessly to
assemble all of the elements of the show.

The cast and crew began rehearsals on Au-
gust 31, leaving less than two weeks to prepare
“Curley” for an audience. This taut scheduling
allowed for participants to audition without
conflict for “Frankenstein” and the November
production of “The Complete Works of Will-
iam Shakespeare (Abridged),” directed by
Hastings.

“Curley,” to be performed in the
Cunningham Black Box Theater, will include
such twists as interactions between the actors
anda special children’s section in the audience.
Show times are this Friday at 7 p.m., Saturday
at 10:30 a.m., 2:30 p.m., and 4:30 p.m., and
Sunday at 1 p.m. and 3 p.m. Tickets are on sale
at the union for $2 for students and $3 for adults.

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
