By Derek Lon
Arts & Living Editor

“Mystic River” is a profoundly American
film, a grand cinematic effort that critics often
have described as Shakespearean in its story
and tone. With its themes of community, be-
trayal, and haunting pasts, “Mystic River”’s
most recent cousins are “Summer of Sam”
(1999) and “The Talented Mr. Ripley” (1999).
These films are ensemble pieces that share emo-
tional grandness and dread. We never know
where they will turn, but we sense it isnowhere
pleasant.

“Mystic River” opens on three boys playing
street hockey. After losing their ball to a gut-
ter, they write their names with a twig in wet
cement. A man emerges from a car, and asks
the boys why they are destroying his munici-
pal property: he is a cop, he says. He scolds the
boys, sends two of them to tell their mothers
what they have done, and forces one, Dave, in
the back of his car. For four days Dave is miss-
ing.

The film jumps to these boys’ adulthoods.
Dave (Tim Robbins), Jimmy (Sean Penn), and
Sean (Kevin Beacon) still live in the same part
of Boston. They run into each other occasion-
ally, but not since the day of Dave’s abduction
have they been friends. Sean is a homicide
detective whose wife left him. Jimmy owns a
convenience store and has three daughters.
Dave appears to have no job, but does have a
son and a loving wife (Marcia Gay Harden).

One night Dave goes to a local bar. Jimmy’s
oldest daughter walks in with two girlfriends,
and they behave like 19-year-olds: they drink,
they-sing, they dance on tables, they tease older
men. The film cuts to Dave’s arriving at home.
He has a knife wound across his stomach and
someone else’s blood on his hands. The next
day, Jimmy’s daughter is missing. Sean, the
homicide detective, finds her mutilated body
in a nearby park.

In many ways “Mystic River” is a whodunit.
Without a reason for his wounds and bloody
hands, Daveis the prime suspect. But then there
is the girl’s boyfriend (Tom Guiry, Smalls from
“The Sandlot”). Our minds jump from expla-
nation to explanation, and when all is revealed,
we’re surprised at the film’s respect for its
characters and for us. For once, a whodunit’s
explanation works.

To describe “Mystic River” in terms of its
plot and character development would be to

Sean Penn stars in Hal btw River’

ignore its strong acting. Robbins’ Dave is filled
with hurt and misunderstanding. Penn feels like
he could explode with anger. As the detective,
Beacon has the difficult role of bringing the
audience into the story. He must act convinc-
ingly while remaining familiar and he must
explain the story at a level and pace to which
the audience can relate. He plays Sean just right.

The supporting cast is excellent, too. Marcia
Gay Harden as Dave’s wife, Lawrence
Fishburne as Sean’s partner, and Tom Guiry
as the boyfriend play crucial roles and add to
the film’s overall tone. And then there is Laura
Linney as Jimmy’ s wife, who, at the end of the
film, gives a speech so bizarre and powerful
that it will be remembered for a good while,
hopefully during Oscar time.

“Mystic River” is why we go to the movies.
It is a superior entertainment that impresses,
engages, and speaks to its audiences. Director
Clint Eastwood delivers a masterful film that
unfolds beautifully.

phia. Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
, America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
| Academic Stecits transfer!

aeeaOeceeesee eee venreuees

Album R

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OcrToBeER 29, 2003

Latest Belle and Sebastian:

new sound,

By Anpy HEsTon
Staff Writer

Three songs into Belle and Sebastian’ s “Dear
Catastrophe Waitress,” I was disappointed
beyond words.

I first got into Belle and Sebastian with
1997’s “If You’re Feeling Sinister.” On that
album Stuart Murdoch and company delivered
some of the finest twee-pop songwriting that
these ears have ever heard.

Rumor has it that Belle and Sebastian’s
moniker comes from the cartoon characters of
the same name, and given the way the band’s
music sounds, it’s a believable one: Belle and
Sebastian play humble and unassuming folk-
pop music, all acoustic guitars and sad expres-
sions, with just enough quirk and humor to set
them apart from the legions of similar bands.
The songs are so simply arranged that there’s
nothing td distract from Murdoch’s genius for
well-crafted turns of phrase, both literary and
melodic. Typically character sketches of some
of Glasgow’s more interesting denizens, the
lyrics are brilliant.

And yet, three songs into their latest album,
I found no great character sketches, no win-
ning melodies, none of the charm of any other
Belle and Sebastian release. I heard three
meandering and over-orchestrated songs, the
names of which I can’t remember and don’t
really care to. Everything I loved about “If
You’ re Feeling Sinister’ was gone: the wit, the
melody, the humility. Something was not right.

And then came the fourth song, “Mike Pi-
azza, New York Catcher.” It dispelled all my
qualms. It opens with a brisk acoustic guitar
playing the sort of quick and shuffling waltz
that makes Belle and Sebastian a distinctly
Scottish band, and the lyrics are as great as any
Murdoch has written: “Elope with me Miss
Private and we’ ll sail around the world/ I will
be your Ferdinand and you my wayward girl/
How many nights of talking in hotel rooms can
you take?/ How many nights of limping ‘round
on pagan holiday?/ Oh elope with me Miss
Private and we’ll set something ablaze/ A trail
for the devil to erase.”

The entire song combines sincere romantic
melancholy with the gentle and effervescent
wit of lines like “San Francisco’s calling us

same great band

B&S’s Stuart Murdoch

the Mets and Giants to play/ And ask the New
York catcher are you straight or are you gay?”
Clever but not smarmy, sincere but not senti-
mental. It’s on songs like “Mike Piazza” that
Stuart Murdoch proves why he’s one of
Scotland’s finest musical exports.

Things take a turn for the more elaborate
with’“‘I’m a Cuckoo.” Where “Piazza” is an
exercise in heartfelt simplicity,’“I’m a
Cuckoo” throws every instrument in the studio
around in a sort of Beach Boys-meet-Bowie
way. Bouncy pop doesn’t get much better than
Murdoch cramming every available syllable
into each line over a Scottish-soul curtain of
horns. “Piazza” sounds like a great Belle and
Sebastian song from five years ago; “Cuckoo”
sounds like a great Belle and Sebastian song
that could only have come from 2003. Much’
has been made of”’80s over-producer Trevor
Horn’s influence on the album. His credits
include Yes, Tatu, and Frankie Goes to
Hollywood...you can understand the concern.
It’s songs like’““Cuckoo” that reveal Belle and
Sebastian as a great band no matter who’s be-
hind the boards.

“Dear Catastrophe Waitress” may start out a
disappointment. But once a great band, (almost)
always a great band. The sound may have
changed, but the Belle and Sebastian magic is
still there.

ted Campus Saftey Week
a Events

4, Bike Seat Signing wvith: Bike Cop

5; Srioe: All Your Doughnuts to Campus Safety NOW Day pent a patety Call Box Day

(I dont « care which Senge

oval of Obie: Vulnerable to Destruction byt the Inebriated,
acne ea Oe poole ed Panes ee

