CAavirue PoLce BLOTIER

4/8 Larceny of Bicycle Richardson bike rack

Unknown person(s) willfully removed bicycle from rack in front of Richardson.
Bicycle was valued at $300.

‘4/10 » Damage to Property Campus-wide

Unknown person(s) willfully damaged College property by pulling up signs, turning over
trashcans and turning over port-a-johns. Damage is estimated at $100.

4/9 Trespassing Alvarez College Union
Two trespassers were identified in the Union handing out propaganda. The two were not
affiliated with the College and were escorted from campus.

4/8 Larceny of Bicycle Chambers bike rack
Unknown person(s) willfully removed student’s bicycle without permission. Bike is
identified as a yellow and red Gary Fisher worth $400.

4/12 Alcohol Violation Senior Apartments
Underage student was intoxicated and loud.

4/13 Larceny of Golf Cart Patterson Ct.
Identified student was caught driving a golf cart that he did not have permission to
have. Student was also intoxicated. :

4/12 Damage to Property — Building F parking
Unknown person(s) willfully keyed a student’s Toyota Highlander. Damage is estimated
to be $1000.

4/11 Alcohol Violation Patterson Ct.
Known student was transported to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center with injuries
sustained after falling off his scooter. Student was underage and very intoxicated,

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

ROTC, from page 1

Cadet of the Month. In order to attain these titles,
a cadet must go before a board of military and
ROTC program representatives and answer a
series of military-themed questions.

For each cadet, the awards represent years of
dedication to the program. Lee, who was at-
tracted to Davidson because of its ROTC pro-
gram, says his devotion comes from both his
admiration for the program and his desire to
have a strong role in planning his future.

“T’ll have more control over what I do after
[ROTC] if I put more into it now,” says Lee. “I
care about the program here, and I want to see it
succeed.”

Lee, who holds the highest leadership posi-
tion in the Davidson program, has ambitions to
study International Relations and eventually to
attend law school after his time in the army.

As for his involvement in the army, Lee
would most like to be involved with the Military
Intelligence Branch and the Special Forces, two
fields that he says are “based on regions of the
world in which it’s necessary to have a concept
of International Politics.”

Perry began her ROTC career during the
second semester of her first year at Davidson,
after she attended a guest PT session that gave
her a taste of what the program was like.

“Military service had been in the back of my
mind for a long time,” says Perry. “I realized
after talking to [former ROTC leader Major Bill

' Geiger] that ROTC was really something I

wanted to do.”

Her next semester at Davidson, Perry took
part in the Beaufort Plus program, a Davidson-
sponsored “study abroad” program focusing on
marine biology. When Perry returned, she be-
came squad leader, along with Lee.

Cadet Travis Lee ’04 (left) during spring exercises.

“There aren’t usually sophomore squad lead-
ers, but there were only two juniors in the
program, so we had to step up,” Perry says.

This semester, Perry is the 49er Battalion’s
Command Sergeant Major, the battalion’ s third-
highestrank. The position, which Perry refers to
as the “top of the chain of information”, in-
volves communicating with each squad in the
battalion’s six schools, maintaining high mo-
rale among the cadets, and making sure that
program standards are being met.

Lee and Perry will likely hold the battalion’s
top positions next semester. In the mean time,
both cadets plan to attend National Advanced
Leadership Course this summer in Fort Lewis,
Washington.

Perry’s future plans include attending a Ca-
det Troop Leadership Training program in
Mannheim, Germany, in which she will
“shadow” a Second Lieutenant at a base there.
Ultimately, Perry would like to join an aviation
unit and fly helicopters. She is currently study-
ing for the AFAST (Alternate Flight Aptitude
Selection Test), which she calls “the SATs of
flying”, a critical-step in pursuing her goal of
becoming a pilot.

Both cadets credit their success in ROTC to
strong leadership within the program, espe-
cially that of Major Leslie.

“He’s all about our success, and making us do
things the best we can,” says Lee.

Lee and Perry continue to devote much of
their time and effort to ROTC and the military
life. For them, the army lifestyle is unparalleled
by anything that normal life has to offer.

“After I graduate, it’s a way I can make a
difference and give something back tomy coun-
try,” says Perry. “I wouldn’t be fulfilled with a
regular 9-5 job.”

Isn’t that the ‘Back to the Future’ car?

Yes, it’s one or two DeLoreans owned by sophomore

By KATHRYN WYLE & PaAuL Masi
Staff Writers

On this SUV-dominated campus, one car
stands out: the DeLorean, as in the car from
“Back to the Future,” owned and driven by
Davidson’s own Joe Palatinus ’05.

The DeLorean comes in only one shade—

stainless steel—and features the famous gull-
wing doors. Palatinus says this stylish portal
does not in any way impede parking or entering
and exiting the vehicle. The only problem posed
relates to automatic doors sometimes locking
them inside the vehicle.
_ With the whopping 4300 cubic centimeters of
storage space—conveniently located under the
hood—Palatinus can take this baby to places a
Nissan Xterra wouldn’t dare to tread, though
friends cannot tag along since it lacks a back
seat.

As the last models hit the roads in 1983, tape
decks come standard. Manufacturing laws cap
the speedometer at 85 mph, yet DeLoreans can
apparently make it up to 120 mph in optimal
conditions.

How could this timeless machine ever have
gone out of production? Regardless, DeLoreans
can be found today among an aesthetically

soo eee RRO Oe KR ewe eH Rh Oe ew

evolved class of car owners. As Palatinus found
out, DeLoreans are obtainable with a bit of
effort. In research for a school project, he dis-
covered a DeLorean for sale but a few miles
away. He jumped at the chance and now his
family proudly owns not one, but two such
beauties.

Should you be interested, DeLoreans can be
found for sale on the Internet, and, unlike new
cars, their value remains relatively constant
over the years. With a Volvo engine and a
stainless steel body, DeLoreans are dependable
machines that have survived the test of time
remarkable well. But really, who needs a prac-
tical reason—owning a DeLoreans is like hav-
ing a piece of cinematic history in your garage,
and you know that, deep down, you wish you
had one too.

et ee ee ee ae ee
