THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003 9

Complaints
and
Comments

a

Clarett rae id could lead to trouble

Maurice Clarett: the face of change in the
NFL?

The league may be in trouble.

Clarett recently filed a lawsuit challenging
the section of the current NFL collective bar-
gaining agreement-that prohibits an amateur
player from becoming eligible for the draft
until he has been out of high school for Im
at least three years. |

Why?

Because “He understands that he can
be a pioneer. He wants to help other
players,” according to Jim Brown, who
is acting as the Clarett family’s advi-
sor, in an interview with ESPN.com.

- <Cough your expletive here>

Clarett’s lawsuit comes conveniently
after he was suspended for at least a
year by Ohio State for allegedly violat-
ing NCAA amateur rules by taking
money in extra benefits. He is the same
Maurice Clarett who lied to police about .
the value of items stolen from his rental car.

If Clarett wins the suit, he will be eligible to
enter the draft in 2004 instead of 2005. We’re
supposed to think that this has nothing to do
with money, but instead centers around his
desire to “do something that is bigger than
himself,” as Brown went on to-say? Are we
expected to sympathize Clarett’s “noble”

plight?

Give me a break. Regardless of how I feel
about the legitimacy of the rule in question, I
hope the judge decides that the ill-spoken

Musings on

The United States women’s national soc-
cer team defeated Sweden in their opening
game of the 2003 Women’s World Cup. The
team received an impressive performance from
superstar Mia Hamm and disappointing news
ee » about 1999 World Cup

= heroine,
» Chastian. Hamm as-
» sisted all three goals, and
Chastain left the game
with a broken foot. It’s
| said that in an attempt to
remove her | shirt,
Chastain lost her bal-
| ance, causing the injury
_...Inother soccer news,
Pope John Paul II, a
former goalkeeper in Po-
land, blessed Italy’s ref-

erees from their top division, Serie A. Turns
out the refs showed up to St. Peter’s square to
be cleansed of all their wrong doings. The
Pope took their red cards ... Sam Hornish Jr.
won the fastest open-wheel race in history on
Sunday at the Toyota Indy 400. He averaged

a speed of 207 miles per hour. It’s no wonder

why he drove so fast, the temperature on the
track was a stifling 140 degrees ... The

Brandi

media nightmare won’t be eligible for the
draft any time in the next decade. If he does in
fact represent a changing tide in the NFL, it
should be suppressed as long as possible.

’ The NFLis the most respectable league in
sports. This is due in part to the nature of the

BY MIKE GIGLIO

players and their union. Contracts, relative to
the context of the sports world, are reasonable.
The salary cap was put into effect without a
strike. Players agree to and comply with (for
the most part) steroid testing, and they have
for years.

In a league where veterans taking signifi-
cant pay cuts for the sake of the team is not an
uncommon spectacle and where most players
still respect their coaches and fans, a player
like Randy Moss is an aberration.

Money-hungry, self-absorbed players are

looked down upon while a team-first attitude
prevails. More often than not, the team is
blamed when a player leaves, not the athlete.

Chasing money is expected in other leagues.
Imagine what would happen if the Mariners
had tied to declare A-Rod as a “franchise
player.” How else could the NHL
find itself $300 million in debt? Ri-
diculous nine-player sign-and-trade
blockbusters evade the cap in the
‘NBA.

But the NFL might be next. Train-
ing camp holdouts are growing more
and more popular for rookies trying
push teams to fork over enormous
signing bonuses. A greater number of
veterans are being forced to leave
their teams because taking a pay cut
just isn’t enough. Wanna-be
Steinbrenners like Daniel Snyder
might become more common, though
his team will crumble under the weight
of the salary cap before it ever has a shot at the
Super Bowl.

There is still hope. The NFL Players Union
has issued a statement saying it does not sup-
port Clarett’s lawsuit. The continuing efforts
of the players and their union to keep the
league running smoothly and the fans happy
give the league a distinct advantage over all
the other major sport leagues.

Hopefully the NFL will never have people
arguing over what jersey a player should wear
in the hall of fame.

soccer, racing and other stuff

Denver Broncos are in the doghouse once
again, except this time for carelessness and not
for dishonesty. NFL Commissioner Paul
Tagliabue is deciding whether or not to fine
the Broncos for bringing their white jerseys to
San Diego last week. It is the home team’s
choice in which jersey
to wear and the Charg-

want to look at it, he was awarded $50,000 per
second, or $5,000 per meter . . . NBA star
Chris Webber says that he isn’t planning on
paying the University of Michigan the
$695,000 that they have asked for. The fine is
said to be what Webber owes the school for

losses acquired because of

ers had chosen to wear
their light jersey. When
the Broncos showed up
with only their whites,
the Chargers were
forced to wear their
dark blue, not what they

had wanted . . . Now

let’s talk about money .

.. The NHL reportedly by taking t eir red
lost $300 million in last cards.”

season alone. Most of

“Pope John Paul II,
a former goalkeeper,
blessed Italy's refer-
ees. He cleanse
their wrongdoings

NCAA sanctions and legal
fees that resulted from him
accepting money from
Michigan alums .. . Kansas
City Royals first base coach
Tom Gamboa has filed a
lawsuit worth more than
$200,000 against William
Ligue Jr. and Sport Service
Inc. A year ago, Gamboa was
attacked by Ligue while
coaching first base. Gamboa
is suing his attacker and the

the blame goes to the
salaries of the players, because the NHL does
not have a salary cap. The league spent 76% of
their $93 billion in revenue on salaries and
benefits .. . Justin Gatlin won the 100-meter
dash at the Moscow Challenge on Saturday.
His time of 10.05 seconds won him the race
and the $500,000 prize. Whatever way you

security service for not do- .
ing its job. . . In other lawsuits, a mother of a
high school football player is suing their coach
for throwing a helmet at the kid’s head during
an intense half time speech. Mario Pezzimati
needed ten stitches after the blow from head
coach Gerald Tidwell. Some expensive
stitches: the suit is set at $20 million.

Field hockey extends winning streak to four

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Since opening the season with frustration
and four losses, Davidson’ s field hockey squad
has surged back, winning for straight games to
bring their record to an even 4-4. A thrilling
overtime victory against conference opponent
Appalachian State has set the tone for their
recent run, as the ’Cats look to earn the respect
of their Norpac Conference peers.

With both teams undefeated in conference
play, the scene was set last Wednesday when
the ’Cats hosted Appalachian State ina Norpac
showdown. The ’Cats dominated early, jump-
ing out to a 1-0 lead at the half thanks to a goal
from Tiffany Homan ’05. Appalachian
stormed back in the second half, however,
tying the game after a deflected block shot
found the net. The teams were locked at 1-1 at
the end of regulation.

The ’Cats came out strong in overtime,

- preventing Appalachian State from mustering

a single shot. bevitons son sealed the game with
a diving goal from Homan, her second of the
day. ;

“We took on the overtime like true competi-
tors,” says captain Zoe Segnitz ’04. “We made
it clear which team was superior.”

With the win, the ‘Cats are 2-0 in confer-
ence play.

A fourth-year member of the Norpac, the
’Cats entered the season having never broken
.500 in conference play. Under the leadership
of first-year head coach Lisa Thompson, the
2002 squad posted a 3-3 mark, the best the
Cats had managed since joining. Now in her
second season, Thompson is focused on con-
tinuing improvement.

“The team is really starting to connect,” she
says. “They are performing well, practicing
hard, and playing at their level.”

Despite her satisfaction with the team’s
performance, Thompson remains cautious
about making any predictions, especially about
conference championships. “We don’t tend to
look that far,” states Thompson. “We certainly

have the capabilities,” she notes, “but every
Norpac team is fighting for the title.”

The coach’s reserve is understandable con-
sidering the gauntlet of competition the ’Cats
must face this season. Their schedule includes
national powers such as Duke and Wake For-
est, who beat Davidson by a combined 16-0
last season. The ’Cats already gota taste of this
elite competition when they lost to North
Carolina 0-6 during their early-season slide.

Fortunately, the ’Cats’ conference schedule
looks much more manageable than their top
ranked opponents. They made a strong state-
ment in the win over Appalachian State and
have yet to lose a conference match.

Still, Davidson will have many more in-
conference obstacles before the Norpac tour-
nament arrives. Among them are two matches
against Radford and a follow-up match against
App State on the road.

Molly’ Blackman ’05 believes that, with
their recent winning streak, the ’Cats are “well
on [their] way towards winning the confer-

ence.”
