Templeton Write winner |

creates new pioheantilyy

By Ros Heiprick
Staff Writer

The Davidson community has once again
been honored by the feats of a distinguished
alumnus. Holmes Rolston ’56, a respected pro-
ponent of environmental ethics, has been named
the recipient of the 2003 Templeton Prize. The
prize, which recognizes significant contribu-
tors to the field of religion and spirituality, is
valued at over one million dollars. Past winners
include Billy Graham, Mother Teresa and
Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn.

In addition to the honor of winning this
esteemed accolade, Rolston intends to contrib-
ute a portion of the monetary grant from the
prize to the creation of a new Davidson profes-
sorship. Rolston’s professorship will likely be
in the area of religion and the sciences, though
final details have yet to be decided.

Vice President of Academic Affairs and Dean
of Faculty Clark Ross echoes his excitement
about the possibilities that come with the gift.

“Hopefully this professorship will give the
college ways of better linking religion, science,
and ethics,” says Ross.

Davidson currently has 34 named professor-
ships, which are made possible by financial
gifts from the outside community. These grants
sponsor faculty positions that are sometimes
outlined by the donors.

“Sometimes [the professorships] go to exist-
ing faculty, and sometimes they go to an off
campus person that we would not otherwise
have,” Ross says. “It gives us a way to honor a

distinguished faculty person, and it also gives us
budget relief to do so.”

These donations may be given with the
intention to focus on a single department, or
they may be more general, with the college
deciding the best use. For example, the Gail and
Ernest Doe professorship focuses on the Eco-
nomics department, while the recently created
Joel Conarroe professorship, given to Davidson
by an anonymous donor, has no restrictions on
its use.

Though Ross is reluctant to say for sure -

that the endowed professorship will likely go in
the direction of the Religion or Biology depart-
ments in the spirit of its donor, this may well be
the case. :

“Tt would be premature to make any defini-
tive statement about the exact nature of the
chair. We’re still digesting the good fortune,”
says Ross, adding, “Within a month we should
have a clearer idea for what will be best for the
institution.”

No matter what the administration decides
to do with the professorship, Rolston’s work
and philosophy are sure to be adequately hon-
ored in the expression of his winnings. Rolston
outlined his life outlook at a press conference
following the announcement of his winning the
award.

“T’ve been lucky that my own personal
agenda, figuring nature out, has during my
lifetime turned out to be the world agenda,
figuring out the human place on the planet.
Living locally led me to think globally,” he said.

Charter, from page 1

fraternity, told the Observer that Davidson stu-
dents could apply for another charter after a
two-year period. As a result, no current brothers
of the Kappa Sigma fraternity would be affili-
ated with the new organization.

College President Bobby Vagt said that he
felt the college had been kept out of the loop in
the national board’s deliberations. Under the
sanctions the College had set in place, current
sophomores in the house could have recruited

Support Davidson
Alumni in Iraq

SGA and the Alumni Office are working to send
care packages to Davidson Alumni who are
currently serving in the military in Iraq

Boxes will be placed on each residence hall for
you to donate items to this cause

Suggested items include:

Beef Jerky* Magazines Razors
Books Moist Wipes Sardines*
Cameras (disposable) Music CDs Sheets of stationery
-Camper style foods” Nerf toys Snacks* (cookies,
Candy* (small footballs, etc.) | granola bars)
Cards Odor Eaters (for boots) Tea bags*
Chapstick Pencils Toiletries (travel sizes)
Dental floss Pens Toothbrushes
Facial tissues Personal message Toothpaste
Fast food Hot Sauce § Phone cards Travel games
- packets” Playing cards Travel mugs _
_ Flashlights Postage Tuna snack kits”
Girl Scout cookies* Powdered drink mix* —_— Valentines
Gum (non-alcoholic) Vienna Sausages”

If you would like to donate money instead of supplies
(to help cover the cost of postage), you can contact
Charles Washington or another member of SGA.

In the interest of having the supplies to troops in a
timely matter, the deadline for putting items in the
boxes will be 6pm on Friday April, 4

new members their senior year, thereby keep-
ing the organization in place.

Vagt said, “The charter’s ‘got to start from
scratch. It’s got to be all new. I regret that the
national office didn’t at least talk to us.”

With the criminal and Code of Responsibility
trials now complete, and now the national
organization’s decision announced, the final
chapter has likely been written in an ongoing
saga that ignited community outrage and at-
tracted attention in media outlets across the
nation.

SGA collects packages for

alumni serving in Iraq war
Group also opens contest to name Wildcat mascot

GEORGIE AHRENDT
Staff writer

A new SGA project will soon be underway
that is sure to interest many of the students who
have attended a Davidson sporting event and
have seen the Wildcat mascot.

SGA members noticed that many schools
have lovingly named their mascots, except for
Davidson.

This realization resulted in the inspiration for
a school-wide competition to name Davidson’s
own furry friend. Names will be voted on, and
the winner will receive a prize.

Students are also being involved in another
SGA project, Operation Care, which is cur-
rently underway. Care packages are being col-

lected to send overseas to Davidson military
alumni. Collection boxes are located in every
hall lounge, the Union, and in fraternity and
eating houses. The deadline for submitting items
is 6 p.m. on Friday, April 4.

If any students have contact information for
alumni stationed in the Middle East, they should
contact Matt Merrell in the Alumni office
(x2114).

If any students have additional contact infor-
mation for friends or family overseas who did
not attend Davidson, they should contact
Charles Washington.

Monetary donations will be taken as well in
order to assist in shipping the care packages. To
donate money, contact Francois Trappey ’06 or
any other SGA member.

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

Armed with tiny water guns which can easily
be concealed in the palms of their hands, the
residents of Watts Hall wander around campus
withtwo aims: finding their ‘targets’ and avoid-
ing their ‘assassins.’

Since Mondayafternoon, nearly 70 of the
first-year students residing in Watts have par-
ticipated in an intense game of ‘Assassins.’

Each participant is assigned as both an assas-
sin and a target to another person in the dorm.
While avoiding the squirts of their assassins’
water gun, players must shoot their targets
three times, none of which can be within the
same hour. The participants must also abide by
a long list of rules, limiting everything from
shooting in academic buildings to shooting in
front of more than three people.

Hall counselor Jenny Rawlings ’04 said,““The
objectis to be the last ‘surviving’ player, mean-
ing that you avoid being shot with a water gun
from your ‘assassin.””

°

. After having played the game on her fresh-
man hall, Rawlings felt a need to re-live the
excitement in Watts this year. With the support
of other hall counselors, Rawlings quickly be-
gan to plan the ultimate tool of distraction from
schoolwork.

Got a water gun? Join in
70 freshmen engage in a friendly game of ‘Assassins’

Graham Honeycutt ’06 agrees, “It gives a
time to relax a little among the stressful atmo-
sphere at Davidson.”

While ‘Assassins’ can be a great way to
relieve stress, many find the game to be stress-
ful in itself, Stuart Harrell ’06 said, “It’s fun and
reduces stress too. But still I’m a little para-
noid...”

Added Katie Tranum ’06, “This game has us
watching our every move, looking over our
shoulder with every step and cautiously plot-
ting ways in which to spray each other.”

Initially intended to begin within the first few
days of military aggression with Iraq, the game
was deemed highly inappropriate for the time.

“We decided to delay the game because it
seemed insensitive to start the game the day
after we declared war,” Tranum said. “I think
that the war is just as much a reality now, but
judging from extensive water fights in Watts]
over the past weeks, we figured that everyone
was able to separate a game from real war.”

With stressful times in both the real world
and within the Davidson “bubble,” the game of
‘Assassins’ seems to be a perfect way for the
residents of Watts to relax. Rawlings, who said
the winner will undoubtedly be from 4th Watts,
feels the game is already a success, despite the
bickering overrules and the excessive exchange
of water. “I love the melodrama,” she said.

| One of the 70
‘assassins’ of .
| Watts Hall fills up
his water gun |

before returning
to search for his

