photos by Kenny McConnaughey

Jeff Gordon and Mark Martin (right), ‘Macho’ Camacho and ‘Sugar’ Ray

Davis records popular history
with carving and painting

By ALI FitzGERALD
Staff Writer

For those not into “Annoyance Art” (see
tantric Tajikistan paint-flinging, nude ice
sculpting for the obese, and the Union take-
over), go see Benjamin “Old Folks” Davis at
the VAC. Maybe it’s my archaic artistic sensi-
bility, but I crave some craftsmanship in my
art. Benny boy’s work is unique because he
was a self-taught artist who took up wood carv-
ing as a means of therapeutic release.

Davis’ legs were amputated due to a circu-
latory ailment in the early 1990s. Upon the
advice of therapists at Duke, he began to carve
and paint into wood panels, using popular
images from the Charlotte Observer as his
subject matter.

Asif acompelling biographical background
isn’t reason enough, there are plenty of other
incentives fora liberal arts gal-on-the-go to see
the exhibit. For history and poli-sci majors,
Davis’ work encapsulates a tumultuous decade
and effectively becomes a visual record of our
polemic obsession with pop culture. Davis
paints everyone from Oprah to Mother Theresa

(is there a difference?) while dutifully record-
ing the accomplishments of African Americans
and civil rights progress in Charlotte. My fa-
vorite is probably Chelsea Clinton, who doesn’t
photograph well—even in wood.
Completing over 300 visual expressions,
Davis’ work is not only atestament to“art brut”
(no, not the cologne), but also to the cathartic
power of the creative process. The-pamphlet
created by the William H. Van Every Gallery
claims, “His prolific output was fueled by a
need to ‘keep his mind occupied.’” Perhaps this
example of the healing capacity inherent in
imaginative expression will lure the curious

. “ids” of the psychology department out of their

carrels, which, curiously, resemble mazes.

From an aesthetic standpoint, his lack of
training seems astonishing as his compositions
seem to be conceived in the mind of a well-
seasoned artist. They are both visually convinc-
ing and intellectually gripping in their alliance
with a readily recognized narrative. But Davis
does not adhere strictly to the constructs of the
newspaper page, instead choosing to play with
placement and scale, thus evoking a more vis-
ceral response in the viewer.

On THE CAT WALK

What did you think of Julian Bond’s speech?

zIVING

By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Elephant” observesa school ona day whose
events mirror The Day at Columbine High
School. During the first two-thirds of the film,
the camera shows no violence. We watch stu-
dents in gymclass, inchemistry class, ataGSA
meeting, in the cafeteria, in the bathroom and
so on. What appears on screen, for the most

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19,2003 8

| ] ees Columbine as fiction

plethora of examples that demonstrates its
exaggerated take on reality. The most obvious
one involves three girls whom Van Sant ridi-
cules mercilessly. Munching on dressingless
salads, two of the girls complain that the third
one spends too much time with her boyfriend.
Tomake up forherneglect, the third one agrees
to go shopping. But before the group heads to
the mall, the girls stop in the bathroom and, as
if connected psychically, throw up their salads

Alicia Miles and John Robinson play two of 12 main roles.

part, is an average day at an average public high
school. The film also documents the two gun-
teenagers —“gunmen” is a misnomer - in their
homes as they skip class, play shoot-em-up
videogames and classical piano, fire mail-or-
der machine guns and watch a documentary
on Hitler.

Writer-director Gus Van Sant and director
of photography Harris Savides present these
events simplistically. The camera cuts from one
shotto another only when necessary. Literally,
it follows the actors from scene to scene, inter-
locking their activities and displaying their
relationships. “Elephant” is sparse storytelling.
While there’s arguably no narrative in the film,
there’s certainly no explanation for the events
of the last 20 minutes. It’s like “L’ Avventura”
with guns.

Critics have praised “Blephant” forits simple
approach, arguing that it creates a realistic film
that (a) avoids false interpretations in favor of
no interpretations at all and (b) paints a com-
prehensive and accurate picture of American
high school from the eyes of its varied attend-
ees. These critics cite the lack of narration and
the casting of inexperienced actors to support
their arguments. I’d agree with (a) and strongly
disagree with (b). Van Sant understands that
an event like the one at Columbine has no rea-
sons, only consequences. Assigning blame is
pointless.

And while I disagree with a reading of “El-
ephant” as a portrait of American high school,
I find no fault with its inaccurate depiction
because it’s not trying to be accurate. “El-

ephant” is stylized, exaggerated realism in .

which the kids who aren’t ugly are ridiculously
good-looking, and the one who isn’t good-look-
ing is ridiculously ugly.

Beyond its casting, the-film contains a

Open

SUNDRIES REATARAIT -BAR
Lake Norman - Harborside

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

in perfect unison.

“Elephant”’s last act is chilling in its explic-
itness. At one of their homes, the gun-teenag-
ers map out their plan, dress in camo, and one
tells the other, “Remember, just have fun.”
They drive to school, and in a moment of great
irony, the boys stand in a corridor with their
guns. They cannot begin shooting because,
well, no one is in the hallway. Determined, they
march to the library, and there, like at Colum-
bine, the killing begins.

I suspect that once “Elephant” receives a
wider release (currently, it is playing only in
New York and Los Angeles) it will become a
major and popular independent feature. The
masses know its director’ s other work, namely
“Good Will Hunting,” and its inspiration, the
shootings at Columbine. Already, it has won
the best film and best director prizes at Cannes,
the first film to win both of the festival’s top
awards.

And it deserved that honor. “Elephant” i iS
simple and original and more important than
any film I’ve seen this year.

Elephant

Directed by:
Gus Van Sant
Written by:
Van Sant
Starring:
Alex Frost,
Eric Deulen, John Robinson, Elias
McConnell
Running time:
81 minutes

(11 a.m, 7 days'wk, - Rain or Shine - Seg Full Menu All Day!

Every Monday
1/2 Price Appetizers (dine-in only)

Every Tuesday
122 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque

4 (den ont)

Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine in only)

Exit 28 - Go W. on ¢

eveaRy THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING

16665 UatPOrsii#e e Dr.

a to Hal bor

(704)896-9013.

roliow to ent

atay

side Dr
