10 THe DAVIDSONIAN

Bond places rhetoric
over intelligence

On Nov. 11, Visiting Batten Professor Tim McGuire deliv-
ered a lecture in which he spoke out against the “the shrillness
of debate” that “threatens political discourse in our country.”

Just a day later, NAACP President Julian Bond delivered a
lecture that was a good example of McGuire’s problem with
public debate in America.

Indeed, Bond’s style of argument has
much in common with loudmouths like Ann
Coulter and Michael Moore, who have
brought debate down to the level of Three \
Stooges-esque eye-poking and hair-pulling.

Let’s look at a few notable examples
where Bond made outrageous statements —
without the facts to back them up.

He accused Republicans of appealing to
those who “reject democracy and equality.”

I can only presume that his reasoning behind this claim was
an even more exaggerated claim: that Republicans want to re-
move all the advances blacks have made in civil rights since the

1960s.

Strangely, the only specific Republican policies he mentioned
in this regard were vouchers and affirmative action.

There must be more to civil rights than school vouchers and
preferential college admissions and hiring standards.

Bond truly has a pessimistic view of blacks’ substantial
progress if he believes that these two policies represent the whole
of civil rights.

MATT BANDYK

I enjoy it when my beliefs are chal-
lenged. That’s exactly what Julian Bond
didn’t do. Instead, he chose to preach to
the converted.

Of course, I know he doesn’t believe that. He simply is un-
able to prove his stereotype of conservatives, so he attacks the
two easiest targets he can find.

Next, Bond attacked the Patriot Act with a blanket statement
that it is destroying our civil liberties.

I asked him a simple question after his lecture: in what spe-
cific ways is the Patriot Act destroying civil liberties?

Rather than answering my question, he rambled on about
how Bush’s proposed strengthening of administrative subpoe-
nas might set us on a slippery slope towards the loss of civil
liberties.

In less than an hour, Bond’s position had shifted from “Pa-
triot Act is destroying our civil liberties” to “Something that’s
not even in the Patriot Act might eventually lead to other things
that will erode civil liberties.”

Finally, he regurgitated the tired argument that Bush’s tax
cuts are to blame for the United States’ recent economic woes.

That position simply doesn’t make sense anymore after the
amazing 7.2 percent growth in the last quarter.

Instead of explaining how tax cuts did not bring about such
growth, Bond pretended that the economy was still in the gut-
ter.

Bond did have some good points: for example, he pointed
out that too many people ignore racism as a real problem. But

’ sensible claims like that were mostly lost in the vitriol.

It’s obvious that I disagree with almost all of Bond’s politics.
But that wasn’t why I hated his speech.

Tenjoy it when my béliefs are challenged. That’s exactly what
Julian Bond didn’t do. Instead, he chose to preach to the con-
verted.

Regardless of ideology, we all should decry Bond’s warrant-
less claims that relied on rhetoric rather than intelligent argu-
ment.

By Trey SKINNER
Staff Columnist

“Intolerance is not a pretty thing, even when it’s covered by
a pretentious mask of tradition.” I couldn’t help but vocalize
my disgust with this nonsensical rhetoric that closed last week’s
staff editorial called “Trustees should rethink requirements.”

“Uhhhhhhgggggghhhhh.” It sounded something like that. It
wasn’t that the article was badly written. It was that it missed
the point entirely and said nothing real. Now, before I back that
one up, let’s clarify the issue for those who came in a little late
in the game.

Article I Section 5 of the Bylaws of the Davidson College
board of trustees says that all members of the board have to be
members of a Christian church. Pretty simple, or at least I think
itis. Many voices out there, however, have expressed dissent,
to say the least.

The theme of last week’s editorial seemed to be adaptation.
The editors of the Davidsonian claim that if Davidson doesn’t
“adapt to the conditions of society,” it will, “suffer the conse-
quences.”

Maybe it’s just me and my conservative upbringing, but
whenever someone uses Darwin as the basis of their argument,
I’m a little turned off. It’s not that I don’t like Darwin, he was
a smart guy. But when Darwinism is used to argue for an idea
that is empirically unfounded, as it often is, I just get a little
mad.

Evidence shows that Davidson is getting better. We now are
said to offer the seventh best liberal arts education in the coun-
try. Are these the “consequences” we have to suffer?

But then there is the issue of hypocrisy. “How can we have
a Christianity requirement if we aren’t a religious school?”

News Flash: according to the Statement of Purpose Davidson
is and has always been a school with “close and strong” ties to
the church. An institution committed to a “Christian tradition

Religion mandate respects school history

WEDNEsDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

that recognizes God as the source of all truth, and finds Jesus
Christ the revelation of that God...

It’s amazing that no one knows that we are a school that is
dedicated to Christian ideals. We do promote religious diver-
sity and tolerance of other cultures, and rightfully so, but we are
an institution devoted to Christian tradition.

Our Christian ideals differentiate us
from the hoards of schools too afraid to
face religion-- because in intellectual
America, Christianity has become an
“antiquated” idea..

So why wouldn’t we require the people who make key deci-
sions about the school to be Christian?

Certainly non-Christians would work to do what they think
is best for the school, but can they be expected to further some-
thing they don’t believe in?

It’s not an issue of intolerance, it’s an issue of following our
self-proclaimed purpose.

If people want to complain, complain about the issue. Com-
plain about the fact that you attend a school committed not only
to education, but also to Christian ideals. That is what we are,
even if we try to ignore and blindly deny it.

Our Christian ideals aren’t hurting us; they are helping us.
They differentiate us from the hoards of schools too afraid to
face religion-- because in intellectual America, sadly, Chris-
tianity is like leprosy. It has become an“antiquated” idea.

It is not. I applaud the decision of the Board to keep the re-
quirement. If we abandon our roots we will become nothing
more than another regrettable first tier PC machine.

To me that’s worse than anything Darwin can predict.

Forget the Trustees and fight real battles

In its Statement of Purpose, Davidson “commits itself to a
Christian tradition that recognizes God as the source of all truth,
and finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of that God, aGod bound
by no church or creed.”

Applicants beware. The seed ramifica-
tions of this dastardly display of Christian-
ity reach further and further everyday.

Dr. Zoran Kuzmanovich can no longer
tickle his tongue, saying Lo-Lee-Ta. Uni-
formed dress at mandatory Chapel begins
Monday. Dr. Cynthia Lewis’s
Shakespearean performances? Bowdler-
ized. Try taking Critics of Religion now,
heathen.

The encroachment is steady, the grip of God is tightening,
and for freedom of religion at Davidson THE END IS NEAR.

Wait no, no its not.

How dol know? Why, I read the Admission’s web- -sitecalled
“Davidson is...,” of course.

While Davidson Ts“‘acollege campus where century-old trees
and brick buildings blend with state-of-the-art technology and
top-notch facilities,” and” Davidson Is “a community where
almost everyone is involved in service, from i igniting the spark
of learning in a second-grader’s eyes to working with patients
in a free medical clinic,” Davidson Is notably not, or is not
described as, a Christian school for Christians by Christians
and about Christians. .

Top Notch, Igniting the Spark of Learning? Yes. The Way,
the Truth, and the Light? No.

And might I add, thank God. All that Sermon on the Mount
crap, loving your neighbor — ick— the Honor Code is bad
enough! Finder’s Keepers. Get off my yard!

So what’s going on here? It’s a clever compromise between
practice and symbolism. It’s compromise for the sake of wealthy
old codgers. Leave it alone.

Do you know how many clicks of a mouse it takes to find the
Statement of Purpose quoted above?

There’s a reason Davidson’s “close and strong” ties with the
Presbyterian Church are so well hidden behind our “century-
old trees” and’’“‘top-notch facilities.”

It doesn’t take a cynical columnist to figure out that money
runs the show around here. Who gives the money? Alumni.
Who are the Alumni? Graduated Davidson students. Who se-
lects Davidson students? Admissions!

Oh the mighty, scrawling signature of Nancy J. Cable, shaper
of our Destiny. She and her cohorts know what they’re doing.

By presenting the school as a secular, liberal institution, they
attract secular, liberalish (couldn’t do it) students. Students who
will become alumni and not care, not care to defend, Davidson’s

“close and strong” ties to the Presbyterian Church.

In the meantime, our academic freedom continues to go
unchallenged and one shallow, largely symbolic requirement
remains; our trustees must be “Christian.” Also wealthy. Also
generous.

Leave’em be and let’s fight less symbolic intolerances on
campus, like dinnertime segregation of the sexes on Patterson
Court.

Amen.

The natural selection of eating houses on the Court has begun

“Welcome to Turner House!”

This will be the resounding cry heard by
retainer wearers from Belk to Budapest (there
will be a live feed because apparently the
Hungarian translation of “Patterson Court
Process” is “The O.C.”).

So they changed “Self-Selection” to
“Court Selection.”

Wow, what a massive and monumental
syntactic shift.

Bravo, you creative powerhouses. Governmental think-tanks
have nothing on you guys.

But just for arguments sake, what about the “Marxist No
Choice-A-Thon?” Or, perhaps, “Turn-acious D(for Davidson)”

ALI FITZGERALD

A house president told me an estimate of the number of girls -

each eating house will receive, but unfortunately it was during

the Union takeover and so I ran out screaming because the phrase -

While I understand the administration’s
need to even out the eating houses, I
think forcing students to join certain
houses will result in a lessened enthusi-
asm for the Court system.

“What is Art” made me want to Vincefit Van Gogh kill some-
one.

I do remember that Rusk is only going to get 5.9 percent of
incoming girls. Please, I weigh more than 5.9 percent of vg
Freshman class.

The question is, “Is it fair to limit the Eating House choices
of Freshman girls?”

_ Wasn’t it Darwin who said, “Only the strong shall imbibe?”

If Darwin was here, he’d loosen the ruffled shirt and say, “Hey
guys, chill out and let’s call it natural selection, man.” (This
would occur right after Bill and Ted jumped out of their totally
rad time machine.)

Darwin would also identify 18 new species of drunken girls
at “Bungle in the Jungle.” “Barfus Inbushus” and the elusive
“Chugbeefor Thecopseesus” among others.

While I understand the administration’s need to even out the
eating houses, I think forcing students to join certain houses
(then limiting the number able to switch) will result only in a
lessened enthusiasm for the Court‘system in general.

To quote my good friend Darwin again, it is truly “Survival
of the Fattest.”

I think what Darwin is trying to say here is that eating house
size should be determined not by some Sera lottery, but
rather by the size of their belts.

Pie-eating contest at 3 tomorrow. Winners get all the freshies.
