The Great American Smoke-Out:
a personal and important decision

THE Sti DEN tT He A H Apvisors: Kristin
Ahearn 05,

By Kim Newton
Health Advisor

Who likes the smell of smoke? Be honest.. .it
just doesn’t smell pleasant. When you snuggle
up to the significant other, partner, or friend,
do you really want a whiff of the Marlborough
man?

As a North Carolinian, I find it difficult to
define my feelings regarding tobacco. It has
and, as long as I can see, will always be a part
of the North Carolina culture. It offers count-
less jobs across the state. My area of Eastern
North Carolina is one of the leading producers
of tobacco. There are a number of tobacco barns
near my house, and I don’t even live ina small
rural town. Replaced by machines, these un-
used barns speckle the entire.state. This plant
has fueled the economy of my state and indi-
rectly helped to fund my high school educa-
tion.

Tobacco has affected my life in some very
drastic ways, too. I have had the unpleasant
experience of watching several family mem-
bers suffer from the smoking-related diseases.
I have had the privilege of having a grand-
mother who quit smoking for me and my sis-
ter. Smoking represents many negative things
to me. While my reaction is personal, I wish
that more students would realize that smoking
is dangerous. It may not be dangerous now but
in the future it will be.

Our generation is one of the first to see grand-
parents and loved ones die of tobacco-related
diseases. These are real outcomes of our cur-

Lothme
Jonetta Johnabn 04, Kim News

rent behaviors. When
inhaling something
makes you cough,
your body is saying,
“Not a smart idea,
Buddy.” Notonly can
smoking affect our
own well-being, but

linked to low birth
weights in infants,
which puts children at
greatrisk for develop-
ing health problems.

Smoking isa persofial decision. A cigarette
break is often a time to forget about your stud-
ies, your selves, your friends. It can be a wel-
comed escape. You may do it to relax or only
when you drink, but these times still represent
dependence. Try going a day or a few hours
without a cigarette. It is hard, but no harder
than fighting cancer or struggling with emphy-
sema or dealing will the ramifications of low
birth weight on an infant.

Next Wednesday, Nov. 19, is the Great
American Smoke-Out.I encourage all
Davidson students to think seriously about
smoking and how it can affect them. Nov. 19
is a day when the whole campus can support
those who wish to quit smoking. Smoking af-
fects us all; not only those who smoke, but also
those who don’t.

wm

, TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18
WILDC AT RED DAY
(wear ved gs
come to the union:
SGA NIGHT

FREE ICECREAM AND PRIZES!!!
WATCH DAVID SON TAK NTAKE ON TEXAS TECH

“THE GENERALS WILL BE THERE TOSING THE FIGHT
“SONG AT HALFTIME**

the Dar will de Open

—

ON THE Cat WALK

Do you read the Davidsonian?

alsosmoking has been.

By Cannon HopGe
Staff Writer

One of my friends;a Texan who will remain
nameless, said of Pat Green, “He’s sold-out,
dude. He’s gone Nashville-mainstream.”
Maybe, but she ris t listened to his new al-
bum.

My love affair with Pat Green began way
back in high school. Since his 1995 debut
“Dancehall Dreamer,” Green has gathered a
honky-tonk college crowd that recently has
crossed the Texas border to reach California
and the Southeast. Within the past two years
Green signed with Universal Records in New
York City and received national recognition.

Some fans, like my friend, claim that Green
has sold out and joined the heartless mainstream
country music regime that is Nashville. How-
ever, I believe that Green remains within his
own echelon that is neither pop-country nor
parallel with famous Texas music legends:
Willie Nelson, George Strait, Jerry Jeff, Rob-
ert Earl Keen or Walt Wilkins. True, those
Texas legends are influential but Green has
developed his own voice and style.

“Wave on Wave’ is the artist’s second Uni-
versal Records album. Green was wary of sign-
ing with a major label because he wanted to
preserve his artistic autonomy and follow the
career paths of the real deal: Willie, Waylon
and other country music legends. Signing with
Universal could have compromised his origi-
nal rebellion against the cliche. Fortunately,
Universal Records has given Green a larger
audience and maintained his originality.

“Wave on Wave’ is cheery, poetic, depress-
ing, chaotic and impressively instrumental.

_Weonespay, Novemper 12,2003 _

6

A tidal ‘Wave’ of country

Green wrote or co-wrote twelve of the thirteen
songs and includes musicians such as Ray
Wylie Hubbard, Walt Wilkins and Willie
Nelson. The ‘album is nothing like a flashy,
overproduced Nashville Kenny-Tim-Toby-
McGraw-Keith album. “Wave on Wave” is .
Green’s bold leap into a broader musical pal-
ette that blends electric and acoustic instru-
ments, haunts his listeners and riles them up
all at once.

The title track has shadows of Nashville, but

. its effortless rush of emotions, rippling elec-

tric guitar picks and distinct violin invite his
audience into his distinct Texas album. This is
not another collection of “‘beer-tacos-and-road-
trips” ballads.

Green’s poetic talent manifests itself in lines
such as, “and the girl she was dandelion beau-
tiful/Damn, she was beautiful.” This skill is
especially apparent in mandolin led “If 1 Was
the Devil,” which features Ray Wylie Hubbard.
They sing, “If I was the Devil/I’d go and find
your preacher man/Crusty and white hair/I’d
tell him that Hell is onthe way/Scare him out
of his skin/See the brimstone in his eyes/then
aband of fat white beacons would take him far
away.” Another track, “Elvis,” is a satirical
jazz compilation of guest vocals by Willie
Nelson, Trish Murphy and Ray Benson of
Asleep at the Wheel.

“Wave on Wave” proves that Green is an
artist who has successfully created his own
version of mainstream. He uses his impressive
collection of musicians to fuse his lyrics with
the sound of country music’s lost soul. Pat
Green certainly hasn’t sold his soul to the temp-
tations of Nashville; instead he has furthered
his own abilities and talent to create one hell of
an album.

Last chances this semester to...

GET OUT! wim Davidsen Outdoors

NOW 22-23 Caving at
Pig Hole and Tawneys

JAN 2-18 Everglades
Canoeing (the classic
D.O. Winter Break trip)

JAN 3-6 Wilderness
Advanced First Aid
IAN 8-11 Wilderness
First Responder

Registration is now open for the spring
Wilderness Leadership Skills Course!

Sigh up for WLSC and all of these trips
at D.O. in the basement of the Union.
