THE DAVIDSONIAN

a a

Blind Everest climber lectures

By Biairn McGraw
Staff Writer

Erik Weihenmayer, the first blind individual
ever toreach the top of Mt. Everest, spoke on his
experiences yesterday at the Duke Performance
Hall. The lecture followed a Monday night
screening of his film, “Farther than the Eye Can
See,” which documents Weihenmayer’s 2001
expedition to the top of the world’s highest
peak.

Blind since the age of 13, Weihenmayer has
become a world-renowned climber, and in 2002
he also finished his joumey of climbing the
highest peak on each of the seven continents.

During the lecture and slideshow, he spoke of
his journey up Everest, as well his struggles to
overcome blindness, He explained how he hated
blindness at first, said he decided to climb
because “I wanted to stop building walls around
myself.” f

Weihenmayer feels that he is a “problem-
solver or innovator.” He decided to climb
Everest, not to throw caution to the wind but
because he considers himself a pioneer. He said
part of his motivation for climbing “was to
shatter people’s expectations into a million
pieces.”

He hoped to rise to his “internal potential,”
and said, “no matter how high I got, I was going
tocelebrate.” Speaking of the view from the top,
Weihenmayer said, “The greatest things in the
world can’t be seen or touched, but felt with the
heart.”

He filled his talk with humorous anecdotes.
including one about dropping tic tacs into the
open mouth of friend who was sleeping on a
rock ledge below.

Asked about his greatest accomplishments,
he spoke of the challenge of being a fifth grade
teacher for several years and of his three -year-
old daughter.

The lecture was sponsored by Summit Cof-

100%

Senior Class Gift Update

77.7%,0f the Senior
Class has either
pledged or paid!

The Seniors have reached
77.7% paid or pledged par-
ticipation for the Senior

Don't forget to pay your pledged during
the season of giving! To pay your
pledge, visit our website at
www.davidson.edu/giving or mail a

check to The Annual Fund Box 7170.
Contact Maria Tardugno x2113 or Molly
Shaw x2831 with questions.

The Senior Study Break is the last
Senior Experience event this semester.
It will be held on in the 900 Room on
December 11th (Reading Day). Come
join your class for some cookies and a

7)
Good fuck with finishing out the

fee, which supplied the coffee for
Weihenmayer’s 2001 tek. Inaddition, Summit
also became a recent sponsor for World TEAM
(The Exceptional Athlete Matters) Sports,
where Weihenmayer sits on the board of direc-
tors. World TEAM Sports holds events around
the world for athletes with and without disabili-
ties.

Tim Helfrich ’00, one of Summit Coffee’s
owners, said the climber “has been a friend of
ours associated with Summit since 2000.” .

He said they wanted to bring Weihenmayer
to Davidson because “we want to promote
outdooradventure and human. powered sports.”
Helfrich added that Weihenmayer is also an
“inspiration individual,” and a role model who
can expand the imagination.

Students were excited about the famous
climber’s presence on campus as well.

“J am amazed that he was able to climb
anything blind,” Will Stoudemire "06 said, “es-
pecially considering that [climbing Everest] is
one of the most difficult things to do in the
world.”

Stoudemire, who is interested in climbing,
also said, “I think i's awesome and we need to
have. more adventurers come here.”

Matt Wilson '06, interested in mountaineer-
ing, said that Weihenmayer “is better than all
the climbers that I know.” He added, “If I could
climb half as well as he does, P'd be happy.”

In addition to his presentations,
Weihenmayer also spent some time Monday
afternoon at Davidson Outdoors’ climbing wall,
where students had an opportunity to climb and
spend some time with him.

Ed Daugherty ‘85, director of Davidson Out-
doors, said it was a “gracious thing on the part
of Summit to include us.”

He said that Weihenmayer's presence “may
interest people to become involved in Davidson
Outdoors who haven't before,” especially those
interested in mountaineering.

Class Gift!

latte mug!

semester!

_NEWS |

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003 3

SGA meets with Mayor
to improve town relations

By Anicia JANos
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association wel-
comed Mayor Randall Kincaid, Town Manager
Leamon Brice, and Police Chief John Kearin at
last Thursday's meeting to discuss the town's
upcoming plans and how to improve relations
between Davidson students and the surround-
ing community.

SGA President Charles Washington “04
launched the discussion by saying, “The wail is
slowly starting to come down between the Col-
lege and the town,” in reference to both the
town’s and students’ increased attempts to
merge the two. cs

Kincaid began by noting that “our little town
is one of the busiesf* and that a recent town
election added one new member to the board.

He described one of the major future plans to
be “developing a 200-acre park in cooperation
with many faculty members,” to be located on
the east side of town, This third park, to be
named Fisher Farm Park, will hopefully in-
crease the amount of space available for com-
munity members to congregate.

Brice, who likened himself to being the
“CEO” of the town, said, “We are working on
some pedestrian safety improvements” in order

to “define the crosswalks a little more clearly.”
These plans include creating crosswalks from
the science buildings across Concord Road and
within Faculty Drive.

Kincaid also announced plans to implement
a crosswalk from Concord Road towards Caro-
lina Inn and the Firehouse, and said. “We want
to have them before youcome back to school in
August.”

Kearin, who will be starting his fourth year as
Chief of Police this January, announced that his
main goal is to “perpetuate the quality of lite
that goes on at Davidson” and affirmed that the
force inereased the numberof police vehicles to
18 throughout the town as an added crime
prevention tool. Interestingly enough. the fact
that Davidson College is insession has nodirect
correlation with the amount of traffie violations
that oceur throughout the area.

When asked how students may improve rela-
tions with the nearby town of Davidson, Kincaid
responded, “It could be an even stronger town
with more student participation” by actively
taking an interestin the kindsof shops that make
their business in the town,

He realizes that the town “is not a great
shopping destination,” nor an excellent source
of restaurants, and hopes that in the future.
Davidson residents will not have to drive to
nearby exits to fulfil thei: shopping needs.

Cable clarifies College’s
affirmative action position

Admissions Dean says
race 1s considered, but
strongest group ts selected

By Zach KAZIOR
Staff Writer

Two contradictory remarks made in past
months by Dean of Admissions and Financial
Aid Nancy J. Cable have left some students
wondering exactly what Davidson’s admissions
policy said when it came to affirmative action.

The first came this past summer, when affir-
mative action dominated na-
tional headlines.

The U.S. Supreme Court
struck down the University of
Michigan’s points system,
which gave minorities prefer-
ence in the undergraduate ad-
missions process. At the same
time, the court upheld the law
school’s method of giving race
less weight in the selection pro-
cess, its intention to “[obtain]
educational benefits that flow
from a diverse student body.”

The law school considers
race, but does not apply it to a points system in
which being a minority gives adds considerable
weight to one’s application.

Cable reacted to the court decision by saying,
“The Supreme Court’s decision in upholding

m. _

Cable is Dean of Admisslons.

the University of Michigan Law Schools.con-

Sideration of race inadmission decisions inlight

of institutional needs and goals affimms the

process that Davidson uses in its admissions
decisions.”

She went on to say, “Considering each appli-
cant separately in light of his or herown merits.
Davidson seeks. to gather the strongest. most
able, and most diverse class from among its
applicant pool each year. Today's decision is
good news for selective colleges like Davidson
that look at each applicant separately, but may
present a challenge to schools that must use
point systems in admissions decisions.”

Last month in the State of the College ad-
dress, Cable again spoke on af-
firmative action in the admis-
sions process, saying that, “Our
standards are not different for
any group.”

Many students expressed
? confusion over these two state-

y ments. While Cable had said in

the former statement that race

was a consideration in admis-
sions, she alsoexpressed in both

Statements that each applicant

is judged separately on their

achievements and that every-
one is given equal consider-
ation.

Cable sought to clear up these diserepancies
in a recent interview. “No any one group re-
ceives special treatment,” she said. “We will
take the very best group that we can.”
