$5 buys a
good time at
local brewery

What can you buy with five dollars? Seri-
ously. Our flopping economy has decreased
the value of a dollar. Five dollars barely can
afford a union meal, roughly two pizza slices
at Palermos, a beer and a half at the Brickhouse
or a movie rental at Blockbusters. That’s just
sad. An economic tragedy for the college stu-
dent; and isn’t college supposed to be about
the alcoholic freebies and the student dis-
counts?

So imagine, for a moment, the personal ela-.

tion and bewilderment that I experienced when

my roommate awakened me by saying, “Can”

non! Do you want to take a brewery tour and
get, like, a six-pack of beer for just five bucks?”
Honey, I jumped out of bed and was ready to
go. .

The Carolina Beer Brewery is a
microbrewery in Mooresville. It is known for
the production and distribution of Carolina
Blonde, Carolina Light, Charleston Light,
Charleston Wheat, Charleston Brown Cotton-
wood Brown, Cottonwood Pumpkin Spited
Ale, Margarita Ice and India Pale Ale. The
brewery’s beers travel to both Carolinas, Ten-
nessee, Kentucky, and Virginia.

Arts &.

*

But this brewery is something of a local

enigma. It is sheltered and distinct from the _

clear, blase-tasting beers that are consumed by

smells of twenty different grains and spices,
and the employees are content with their re-
freshing autonomy.

The brewery opens to the public on Satur-
days from 12 p.m. until 2 p.m. It has'a cozy bar
that offers unlimited tastings, great music and

hardy conversation. Between sampling (and _

stumbling), there are tours (many of which are
led by Davidson’s Charlie Hunter ’04) that pro-
vide anexplanation of the in-depth process that
is required for the singularly unique beers. The
brewery is also open on this Friday night (7:30
p.m. on Sept. 26) for a showing of “The Ma-
trix” on a 15-foot giant screen. Admission is
free.

So. To refer to my original question, five
dollats spent at the Carolina Beer Brewery
affords a tour, an unlimited sampling of beers,
a six-pack of truly good beer and a pint glass.
For those under 21: follow the law. Everyone
else: Take I-77 north to Exit 36 and turn right
on Hwy. 150 at the top of the ramp. Take Hwy.
150 to Hwy. 115 and turn left. Turn right at the
first stoplight, Mazeppa Rd, and the Brewery
will be about 1 mile down on the left at 110
Barley Park Lane.

WOULD YOu

the te fen The brewery is clean and ©

%
%
4
4

eee.
are

4

Cosby, from page 1

stage at 8:15 p.m., opening his dialogue with
a tribute to the late Fred Rogers, just as he did
in accepting a lifetime achievement award
during Sunday night’s Emmy Awards broad-
cast.

He also paid homage to U.S. soldiers who
died in Iraq, pausing for two minutes as “Ave
Maria” played over the loudspeakers.

Cosby spent the rest of the show recounting
memories of his own childhood and poking fun
at young people’s behavior, particularly col-
lege students.

“Before youcan go after your dreams, you’ ve
got to wake up,” he said. “Sleeping is the easy
part.”

The Davidsonian asked African American
History Professor Dan Aldridge and four stu-
dents to share their impressions of the perfor-
mance.

Dr. Dan Aldridge

I found the show to be quite enjoyable. Like
Mark Twain, Cosby aspires to do more than
make you laugh—his humor is also meant to
convey deeper observations about life. In his
own way Cosby is quite a traditionalist—he
supports hard work, self-reliance and respect

“for authority.” -

He is an important cultural figure since he is

LIKE TO SPEND

THE SPRING 2004 SEMESTER
a" NEW YORK CITY?

photo by Peter Roady

on Wepnespay, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003 6

BREN SS mL TEENS PARRA OTT Yer A ETS CSI

one of the first generation of African Ameri-
can stand-up comedians to break through and
cross over.to-a broader audience.

It ‘also is apparent that Cosby can make his

blackness an element of his character without

holding blackness up to ridicule or creating a
cartoonish African American “hip hop” iden-

‘tity, as so many of the “Def‘Comedy Jam”

generation of black comedians qo.

Vincent Benjamin “04

With his unique blend of social commen-
tary and sidesplitting humor, Cosby reminded
everyone how funny life can be. From wet
dreams to binge drinking, Cosby talked about
it all in a way. that only he can.

While the diverse crowd of children, stu-
dents, parents, and grandparents was impres-
sive, the beaming smiles at the end of perfor-
manice were even more powerful. Before say-
ing goodbye, Cosby said, ““You’ll never know
how fun honesty is until you have tried it.”

Thanks to Liz Smith and the Union Board,
Cosby was able to show us first-hand how fun
honesty can be.

Ali Fitzgerald ‘04

Bill Cosby never graces the cover of National
Enquirer looking bleary-eyed and hugging a
Taiwanese snake charmer named “Ling-Ling.”

He never had a wild rendezvous with Rudy
in a vat of Jello-pudding pops. And

“Fat Albert” was never addicted to airplane
glue (that we know of).

That’s because

“The Cos” is a genuinely nice guy. He’s an
educated person who uses his celebrity for more
than just “Endangered Bee Pollen Phone-A-
Thons.”

He is the kind of man that wears V-neck

sweaters and dedicates his performance to a

fellow-sweater wearer (Mr. Rogers).

With facial contortions matching a “fresh-
person’s” after his first cabbage casserole at
Commons, he painted the audience a flawless
picture of familial relations, gender differences
and—ahem—college life.

Part motivational speaker and part comic
genius, I thought his performance was pretty
freaking neat. Sure he lectured us a little—
“Grandpappy-style,” but the universal truths
he revealed were well worth it (Disclaimer: my
grandfather was named “Strunk Hill” and
thought linear equations were the height of
humor).

I found Mr. Cosby so inspiring that I almost
wanted to buy headgear, hike up my pants and
get a “Heath Huxtable 4-Eva” tattoo. Almost.

Joe Taylor ‘06

Ican hardly believe that I wasted $25 and 90
minutes of my life at Bill Cosby’ s performance
on Tuesday evening.

First, Mr. Cosby had no previous knowledge
of Davidson whatsoever. Rather than respect-
ing our institution and doing some research,
Cosby just slapped on a sweatshirt, perched
himself on stage with a big childish grin, and
exploited the same college stereotypes thathe
tried desperately to ridicule.

Cosby’s generic routine accentuated his lack
of knowledge about Davidson and his assump-
tion that our school is comparable toacommu-.
nity college. Next time, Cosby should take his
own advice and “know his stuff.”

Second, Mr. Cosby randomly interspersed
anecdotal commentary about morality and life

_ itself. Why should Bill Cosby refer to war,

death, and rape— before, during and after a
rant about puberty? A lack of transitional
material caused his banter to become even more
inappropriate. I understand that he wanted to
pay tribute to Mr. Rogers, but the way in which
he did was both unnecessary and clichE

Third, Cosby’s material was completely
predictable and unintelligible. Rather than cre-
ating anovel presentation, he just exploited the
same old jokes about the same old. subjects.
Moreover, Cosby’s delivery of the material was
equally disappointing. How can an audience
laugh at his poor sense of timing and his two
facial expressions?

Despite the riotous laughter from adoring
fans, I found Cosby’s performance to be banal
and pgs 9 palahy the $25; I want those two
