5

Movie Review

‘Spirited Away:’ an unusual, ,
extraordinary experience

By Linpy BaALpwin
Staff Columnist

For all the talk about illicit campaigning for
Academy Awards, and some truly heinous
winners in recent years (Eminem? “Gladia-
tor?’”’), once in a while an Oscar actually goes
to a movie that deserves one. Not just a good
film, but one so unusual and extraordinary
that, watching it gives you goosebumps, one
you immediately know you have to see again
the moment you finish it the first time around.
“Spirited Away,” this year’s winner of the
Best Animated Feature Film Oscar, is that
kind of movie. To borrow a line from A&L
editor Derek Loh, it was easily the best movie
nominated for anything this year (which,
sadly, makes its triumph somewhat surpris-
ing).

The film is the latest work from the studio
of Hayao Miyazaki, a prolific Japanese ani-
mator who is apparently seen with an almost
god-like reverence by the rest of the world’s
animators. Its “Alice in Wonderland”-like
tale follows a girl named Chihiro, who with
her parents mistakenly trespasses in a realm
where humans are not allowed. Chihiro must
seek employment at a strange bathhouse for
demons and gods in order to save her parents
from their untimely transformation into giant
pigs (yes, you read that correctly).

Along the way, of course, she meets a host
of unusual and memorable characters, in-
cluding a giant baby named Boh, a swarm of
sootballs with arms and legs, a river god, and
a witch named Zeniba who looks like a cross
between a Troll doll and a Victorian cameo
etching. It’s a weird, wild story, and a truly
rewarding moviegoing experience.

Davidson actually screened the film twice
on Jan. 31, and I attended with high hopes. I
had only seen the Japanese version (subtitled
in English) and was eager to see how the
English dubbing worked. I was not disap-
pointed in the movie — the English dubbing is
flawless, the dialogue crisp, and the anima-
tion as gorgeous as I remembered.

I was, however, surprised to realize that
most of the audience didn’t share my enthu-
siasm for the movie. I was honestly horrified
to overhear the following comment: “I think
that was, like, the worst movie I’ ve seriously
ever seen. It made, like, no sense.”

I racked my brain trying to explain the
discrepancy between my experience and
theirs, and finally decided that it might be
insufficient preparation for the film. I suspect

that some people may have come in expect-
ing ‘Beauty and the Beast” and been thrown
for a loop when a character named No-Face
devours an inconvenient talking frog (only to
expel him projectile-style later). No matter
how brilliant “Citizen Kane” may be, of course
you’re going to think it’s weird if you were
expecting “Shakespeare in Love.”

So, in the hopes that more people might be
prompted to seek out the film, here are my
hints for getting the most out of your “Spir-
ited Away” experience.

* Observe the artwork. Miyazaki still draws
all of his frames by hand, and each one is
absolutely gorgeous. Even if you end up
detesting the plot, characters and script, you
should still be able to appreciate the beauty of
the images.

* Suspend disbelief. As noted above, “Spir-
ited Away” is very similar to an “Alice in
Wonderland” or a “Harry Potter” or a “Wiz-
ard of Oz” — the logic of the movie’s world
does not coincide with our own. Be prepared
for some weirdness, and enjoy the wonderful
imagination it takes to come up with stuff like
this. ;

* Expectacultural barrier. Unlike Ameri-
can films, Japanese movies are not afraid of
sentimentality or sadness. Love and loyalty
are not portrayed with irony, but are treated
with a gentle seriousness. Contrast this with
most Disney films, where any suggestion of
powerful emotion is quickly undercut by a
quotable comment from a supporting charac-
ter before the audience can become uncom-
fortable. Approach the movie on its own
terms; don’t try to force it through our super-
ironic American film-viewing paradigm.

You’re probably asking why you should
bother to see the movie if you have to work so

_ hard to enjoy it. The short answer: it’s worth

it. If you allow yourself to become immersed
in Miyazaki’s artwork and the strange, senti-
mental tale he weaves, you’ re in for an amaz-
ing experience. “Spirited Away” is now play-
ing at Birkdale.

Farrell’s ‘Phone Booth’ gets

boring at times,

For weeks last October, an unknown sniper
struck down innocent victims throughout
D.C., Maryland, and Virginia, leaving citi-
zens in a state of panic. The nation watched as
the manhunt for the killer spread across the
country, eventually leading to the capture of
not one, but two snipers.

The new thriller “Phone Booth” staring
Colin Farrell and directed by Joel Schumacher
replicates the fear and voyeuristic interest of
those several weeks into an unbalanced, 82-
minute mixture of boredom and brilliance.

Stu Shepard (Farrell) is an up and coming
public relations man in high society Manhat-
tan. He makes a living selling lies. He lies. for
his own benefit and for that of his clients. He
also lies to cover up those lies.

However, his deceptive ways are about to
catch up with him as Stu walks into a public
phone booth and into the crosshairs of a
sniper’s rifle. Stu curiously answers a call to
the phone booth. Answering the phone, Stu is
trapped by the sniper, who seeks to publicly
punish Stu for his life of lies. Eventually, the
sniper’s voice becomes angrier and more
willing to kill Stu or anyone who interferes.

The plot offers some exciting sequences,
but the film’s reliance on talk rather than
action leaves it boring at times. Fortunately,
Colin Farrell’s performance nad Joel
Schumacher’s direction make up for “Phone
Booth’’s lack of action.

Farrell’ s part required him to have an emo-
tional breakdown, from arrogant business-
man to a weeping man, curled in the corner of
the phone booth, regretting his past life.
Farrell, the Ireland native and rising Holly-
wood star, plays the emotional extremes be-
lievably.

On the other side of the phone is Kiefer
Sutherland, the unseen sniper. His menacing

Rising star Colin Farrell takes center stage in ‘Phone Booth.’

but still delivers

voice and laugher are certain to send chills up
your back. While these performances are
important to the film’s success, Joel
Schumacher’s direction brings all the ele-
ments together.

Schumacher uses several techniques to
comment on America’s fascination with cri-
sis, which we watch from the comfort of our
own home on CNN, Fox News, or any of our
dozen or so news channels available today. In
the high-paced lives of New Yorkers and
many other Americans, moments of crisis
motivate citizens to stop and watch in fasci-
nation, as Stu Shepard’s struggle becomes a
prime time news event. As the film is prima-
rily set in the phone booth and the surround-
ing blocks, any phone call Stu makes is shown
inasmaller screen, similartoaTV. The visual
structure Schumacher uses represents
America’s media driven society, but the film
never explicitly offers an answer as to whether
that social existence is negative or not.

“Phone Booth,” originally set to open No-
vember 15 of last year but withheld after
obvious similarities with the Washington,
D.C. sniper attacks, was overall worth the
five-month delay. Fine acting and directing,
along with intriguing social commentary,
make “Phone Booth” a sometimes slow, but
enjoyable night at the movies.

q

20th Century Fox
