4 _THe DAvIDSONIAN

Wanted: more

_NEws

conservative

speakers booked on campus

By ADAM MartTIN
Staff Writer

Yesterday the Public Lectures Committee
(PLC) approved funding that would help bring
to campus Dinesh D’ Souza, former senior do-
mestic policy analyst for the Reagan adminis-
tration.

John Pitts 04, President of the College Re-
publicans, made the proposal, however, the
PLC funds do not guarantee D’Souza’s
Davidson visit.

This decision comes at a time when some
Davidson students have expressed concerns
over the balance of political perspectives of
campus lecturers, claiming that Davidson
speakers lean liberal. Pitts and Russ White ’04,
editor of Libertas, reviewed the listing of lectur-
ers from the past two years, and found a “major
imbalance in their ideological stances and back-
grounds,” said Pitts.

Pitts realized liberal bias may be difficult to
prove, yet all students must have access to funds
that bring major speakers to campus.

According to William Brown ’70, Davidson
College spends over $150,000 annually on lec-
turers and presenters. Brown has been the Di-
rector of the College Union and has served on
the PLC for over 20 years. He also oversees the
Union Speakers Committee (USC).

The PLC, comprised of nine appointed fac-
ulty and staff members and three students, in-
cluding the USC chair, governs the use of
around $90,000. The committee is responsible
for selecting Davidson’s four high-profile, en-
dowed Lectureships - the Reynolds, Smith,
Wearn and McGaw - as well as other faculty co-
sponsored lecturers.

According to Dr. Jbhn Wertheimer, Profes-
sor of History and PLC Chair, the PLC often
seeks input for speakers from outside faculty
members but also receives and has approved

requests, like D’Souza, from students and stu-
dent organizations.

“A lot of work goes into bringing a speaker
to campus—travel arrangements, accommo-
dations, calendar issues, dinners at the
President’s house, visiting classes,” said
Wertheimer, “If a student takes the initiative,
we are often willing to support it.”

The Dean Rusk Program and USC are the
other two organizations that receive a signifi-
cant portion of funds for speakers. The Student
Advisory Committee (SAC) plans and orga-
nizes events and proposes speakers to Dr. Chris
Alexander, Professor of Political Science and
Director of Dean Rusk. The SAC and USC are
directed and staffed by students. Sois the Union
Speakers Committee.

Joining these committees and making pro-
posals may be the best way for concerned
students to ensure that speakers reflect their
interests.

But should these committees create a sys-
tematic self-check for political imbalance?

Alexander said, “Eight times out of 10, we
don’t know the political leanings of an invited
speaker until they have the mic in their hand.”

Both Alexander and Wertheimer reported
that political ideology is not usually factored
into the selection process at all.

“When the proposals come to us, the bias
may already be there,” said Wertheimer, “but
we vote on the merit of the proposal, which
doesn’t include a political litmus test.”

Alexander noted that Dean Rusk explored
potentially politically divisive issues in the
form of debate rather than witha single speaker.

Brown warns us not to look at the issue of
balance too narrowly. “We have more speakers
than the calendar can easily handle. These folks
cover a tremendous array of interests and aca-
demic disciplines, including but hardly limited
to social and political issues.”

December 12 —

(Special Evening Hours — Monday & Tuesday)

20% Off

General Books/Gifts/Clothing
Cards & Stationary

BOOKSTORE CHRISTMAS
SALE

December 19"

Merry Christmas from the Bookstore Staff
Hours:
Mon, & Tues. 8:15 am — 7:30 pm
Wednesday, Visrsday & Friday 8:15 am —5 pm

~Iam—2 pm

Store Closes at 4:30 pm on December 19%

| Commons, from page 1

At the request of several vegetarians this
year, rice and beans are served at every meal,
excluding breakfast, to accommodate for the
“ack of broad vegetarian options,” according
to Masi. More tofu has also been added.
Phillips noted that the amount of food space
has reached capacity, prohibiting the addition

of larger amounts of food in the storage area. -

The November 16 change is “a direct result
of the e-meal comments and food committee,”
said Phillips, referring to the e-mail system
where students may offer suggestions to the
menu. On average, about 5 “e-meals” are
received each week.

During the December meeting, suggestions
were made to offer tours of the kitchen to
Davidson students, which will begin in
January, and to increase the amount of waffle
irons available on the weekends.

For the first time ever, Commons will be
open for extra hours during exam week for
students desiring a quiet place in which to
study. On Thursday, December 11, Friday,
December 12, and Sunday, December 14,

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003

Commons will be open from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m.,
offering fountain drinks, coffee, and various
snacks. Students may swipe their Cat Card,
use their declining meal balance, or pay $3.50
for entry during these late-night hours.
Laptops are welcome.

Future plans for the Dining Services
Committee include being involved in future
renovations to Commons, a process that
begins within the next month. Beginning on
January 22, Phillips and Richard Terry,
Director of Auxiliary Services, will talk with
focus groups to discuss various perspectives
on renovations to the building. Phillips wants
to “get a broad sample of everyone to get their
opinions of what they’d like to see” as the
future Commons. At least six meetings will
take place in Dupont Room, with all Davidson
students invited to attend in order to offer
suggestions.

“We would love to have more student
participation at the meetings,” Phillips said,
with Masi requesting that students first contact
him, Phillips, or the e-meal service to offer
input.

Your .
Dream: “T want to become a doctor.”

Your

The Johns Hopk <ins Post-
Baccalaureate |

necessary s

If you or somi
wants to‘pur
doctor, apply By

For more infor
www.jhu.edu
410-516-77

ieealisedieeadien ch viteall

“Ldon-tehave the
required couitses
« for medical school. ”

Reality:

remedical
Program prepa es, college

ne you know
a Career asa
March 1.

ation, visit
3stbac or call

$5

JOHNS HOPKINS

Ue lo NV. Ri RST CY.
Post-Baccalaureate _
Premedical Program

