12

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

Looking Ahead: Wildcat Football 2003 |
Pair of new QBs misfire in opening loss to Wingate

White, Cook sacked 10
times behind injury- -
plagued offensive line

By WALKER SAIK 2.
Staff Writer La

For the first time ever, fans, players, and coaches got to enjoy
classic Davidson football at Richardson Stadium under the
lights.

Over 3,600 fans were in attendance to see the ’Cats struggle
to a 22-10 loss to Wingate in what was the season opener for
both teams.

Without much offensive bite for the majority of the game,
the ’Cats relied on some opportunistic defense, albeit one that
allowed nearly 300 yards rushing. The “D” forced a fumble,

_ intercepted a pass, and forced a turnover on downs all within
the Davidson 35, preventing the Bulldogs from delivering that
crushing blow.

Arguably, though, the ’Cats used the game as an exhibition
for their two relatively inexperienced quarterbacks to duel it
out. Both finished six-for-17 on the day with Tom Cook ’06
grabbing two interceptions.

Damion White ’05 started the game and struggled early,
completing one of six passes in the first quarter. He didn’t settle
in until late, completing five of his last eight passes.

Cook took the opposite route, starting strong midway through
the third quarter after limited play in the first half. After two
mediocre drives, Cook took the ’Cats on their longest drive of
the evening, going 48 yards in nine plays, culminating in a
seven-yard touchdown run by John Leverett ’04.

The drive, helped by a 15-yard pass interference penalty,
saw Cook passing and running, just making it to the chains on
a busted third-and-19 play.

The deficit cut to 12-10, the rejuvenated of the squad was
short-lived as pass protection broke down and the offense
stagnated once again. The next four possessions ended in a
fumble, two interceptions, and turnover on downs, respec-
tively.

“There was no consistency on offense,” commented Head
Coach Mike Toop. “Our biggest problem was decision-mak-
ing, forcing throws to the wrong read.”

As for who may get the starting spot, Coach Toop feels
“[it’s] just going to depend on who’s hotter at the time. Neither
was tonight.”

With left tackle Ken Franklin ’04 out with a broken ankle and
left guard Ryan Arnold ’06 leaving the game early with a
sprained ankle, the young offensive line was visibly depleted

- by the end of the game, giving up six of 10 sacks in the quarter
and forcing Cook to scramble for his life on a regular basis.

“We had freshmen playing like freshmen, first-time starters
playing like first-time starters. That’s how it goes,” Toop said.

A bright spot offensively, if any, was the rushing game.
Leverett ran for 109 yards on 21 carries, looking strong at the
start and end of the game especially. But with the inconsisten-
cies in the passing game, fans had to witness 11 of 17 drives halt
at less than 20 yards.

“We had random spurts - running well in spots - but we were
never able to execute from a protection standpoint,” said Toop.

Aside from the forced turnovers, the defense, led by Mixon
Robinson ’04 with 10 tackles, didn’t look too much better.

Wingate tailback Antonio Hailstock ripped through the
defensive line as if it was a pregame banner, totaling 192 yards
on 34 carries in addition to a 61-yard touchdown catch from

photo by Peter Roady

Quarterback Damion White ’05 tries to elude Wingate defenders in Saturday’s game.

Stuard Card for the first score of the game.

Midway through the second quarter, the Bulldogs struck
again. Taking from the Wingate 30 after Davidson’s turnover
on downs, a 39-yard quarterback rush brought them down near
the red zone, where the defense stiffened up and held them to
a field goal, making it 10-0.

On Davidson’s last drive before the half, disaster stuck
again.

With the ’Cats pinned on the goal line following two
consecutive sacks, Wingate blocked the punt attempt by Chris
Costello ’04 with 23 seconds left in the half. It was astutely
recovered by Jordan Sundheim ’06 for a safety, preventing the
touchdown and making the halftime score 12-0.

The ’Cats came out of the locker room fired up. Mark
Wilkerson ’06 recovered a fumble on the first play of the
second half, putting the ’Cats in prime field position. An illegal
block penalty set them back, though, and they settled for a 45-
yard field goal by Costello, cutting the deficit to 12-3.

After the Davidson touchdown drive, the Wingate returner
split through the Wildcat special teams, where kicker Brian
Scott ’06 had to make the touchdown-saving tackle.

The “D” couldn’t stop the Wingate offense, and a series of
runs led them into the endzone for a 19-10 lead.

As the offense fought to pull closer, an interception and
ensuing field goal acted as the dagger in the heart for the
Wildcats, as the Bulldog team. out-played them in the final
moments.

“Wingate outplayed us in all three aspects of the game— .

offense, defense, and special teams,” commented Toop.
“Normally, if you get four turnovers, you can win the

football game, but coughing up three late usually loses: it for

you. As much as we struggled early, it was 12-10 with 12:32

VMI vs. Davidson

1 p.m. Richardson Stadium

LAST WEEK: VMI lost to Navy 37-10. It was the
Keydets’ first game against a I-A opponent since they
played Navy in 1997.

Redshirt freshman quarterback Jonathan Wilson, play-
ing in his first college game, completed 16-of-28 passes for
165 yards and one interception.

His longest pass of the day was a 25-yard pass to Zohn
Burden in the third quarter that set up VMI’s lone touch-
down.

Sophomore running back Sean Mizzer led VMI on the
ground with 77 yards on 17 carries.

LAST SEASON: VMI topped Davidson 41-16 in Lex-
ington, Va., last season, racking up 550 yards of offense.

The Keydets finished the season with a 6-6.re¢ord, their
best since 1981. However, the team lost 15 of 22 starters on
that team, including quarterback Joey Gibson.

WHAT TO EXPECT: It could be a long afternoon for
this young Wildcats team, The Keydets aren’t as experi-
enced or talented as last season, but VMI is still 4 scholar-
ship program, and that makes a big difference.

Improved quarterback play is crucial if Davidson is to
keep the score close. _

left. They just executed better than we did at the end.”

The Davidsonian.

P

os i

Nick Hansell ‘o4
Men’s Soccer.
Hometown: Columbia, S.C.
Major: Physics

Hansell scored Davidson’s first and only two goals of

the season against College of Charleston on Saturday.

His efforts were enough to secure the 2-1 victory for
the ’Cats in their season opener.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Nick Hansell scored the first goal of the men’s soccer
season on anifty play: After John Latting beat two defend-
ers coming out of the back, he fed Hansell at the top.of the
box. Hansell lost the ball momentarily but quickly-reg¢
control with a spin move around a defender. He then
a falling defender to set himself free in the box. :

One-on-one with the keeper, he tucked the ball néa
post for the first tally of the season. The Wildcats woulda
another goal and emerge with a 2-1 win. —

