School supports University
of Michigan Law School.
admissions policy

By EmiLy BostIAN
Staff Writer

Davidson has joined 27 peer institutions in
filing an amicus, or “friend of the court”, brief
with the United States Supreme Court in sup-
port of the University of Michigan’s law
school’s admission policies.

Amicus briefs can be filed by any organiza-
tion, other than the parties in the contested case,
that has a stake in the outcome of the case.
Though Davidson is a small, private school and
the University of Michigan is a large, public
university, the larger issue being considered by
the Supreme Court case involving the affirma-
tive action policy is broad enough to include the
College.

This case has drawn unprecedented numbers,
and more than 300 organizations have filed
briefs.

Others who filed amicus briefs in support of
the Univ. of Michigan include Nike, American
Express, 60 members of Congress, General
Motors, Coca-Cola and Pepsi, Tom Daschle,
Hilary Clinton, and John Edwards, and even
some members of the military. Three times as

many briefs were filed in favor of Michigan
than against. Those against include the White
House and the Center for Individual Rights.

The Case

Informally referred to as ‘the University of
Michigan case,’ Grutter v. Bollinger, 02-241
and Gratz v. Bollinger 02-516 are a combina-
tion of a lawsuit involving white students suing
the Univ. of Michigan undergrad and others
suing ‘its law school for discriminatory prac-
tices.

Michigan’s undergrad uses a point system in
which ‘underrepresented minorities’ receive 20
points out of a possible 150 in the admission
process. The law school, on the other hand, uses
a system very similar to Davidson’s admission
process.

College President Bobby Vagt says
Davidson’s admissions policy looks at each
candidate on an individual basis, and considers
many factors including grades, SAT scores,
class rank, special achievements, musical tal-
ents, artistic talents, athletic ability, special aca-
demic and extra-curricular interests, legacy sta-
tus, geography, and socio-economic status, as
well as ethnicity and race. He emphasized that
“the bar is never lowered”—everyone must be
able to do the work and perform to Davidson’s
standards.

There are many possible outcomes of this
case, from a full affirmation of Michigan’s

2003 Phi Beta Kappa new members |

Ashley Powell Alderman
Lauren Elaine Baker
Elizabeth Jeanne Barnes
John Peter Campbell
Allison Cecile Carroll
Andrew Paul Christopherson
Christina Elizabeth Cooke
Sarah Elizabeth Curl
Thomas Lane Estes, Jr.
Meika Renee Fields
John Andrew Foster
Kristine Lynn Grayson
James Robert Gregory |
Elizabeth Anne Gross
Elizabeth Bazemore Halligan
Kristine Jo Harrington
Brandon Keith Hood
William Townsend Humphrey
iain Muidlecsie...
David Paul Johnson
Soran Morgan Johnson :
Amy Lauren Johnston
Jennifer Fay Kawwass
Jason Greer Lake
- Charles Robertson Lea
Andrew Goodman Leventhal
~ Tyler Grant Lovellette

Emily Grace McCown
Robert Alexander McLean, II
Tania Rae Therese Markowski
Sharon Elizabeth Meidt

Isaac Andrew Miller

Sydney Butler Montesi
David Zachary Moskowitz
Sheila Natarajan

Rebecca Nunan

ike Wimsatt O’ Hara

Emily Elizabeth Oldham
Ashley Margaret Price
Patrick Marion Rice

Lisa Diana Robinson

Phillip Dean Smith

Mary Margaret Sommerville
Elizabeth Sawyer Spitz
Victoria Anne Statler

Bryan Gregory Stevinson
Rees Les Stewart

Mary Juanita Stokes
Elizabeth Anne Super

Elise Marie Tabata

Pearry Green Tarwasokono
Jarrett Tyler Welsh
Catherine Jean Williford

Mary Kathryn Wilson

College Tiles a amicus briet i in Supreme Court affirmative action case

undergrad point system to a decision barring
colleges from using any factors other than
grades, SAT scores, and class rank. Conceiv-
ably, this decision could prevent Davidson and
other liberal arts colleges from using any of
those other factors in making an admissions
decision.

The Brief

Davidson’s amicus brief, signed in conjunc-
tion with 27 other selective small liberal arts
colleges, supports only the Michigan law
school’s approach to admissions, not the point
system of the undergrad. While framed in the
legal issues, the brief primarily argues practical
issues.

The main pointis that colleges need diversity,
including racial diversity, to create

a true learning environment for their stu-
dents, and that the only way to achieve diversity
is to seek it directly.

Vagt says, “We feel the experience of the
white students is enriched by the presence and
contributions of non-whites, and vice-versa,
and so we pay attention to it.”

The brief emphasizes the negative conse-
quences of a decision against the University of
Michigan, stating, “Moreover, research and
experience suggests that for small, highly selec-
tive, largely private colleges like amici, carving
out race from all the other kinds of diversity that
colleges consciously aim for will have a pre-

Omicron Delta Kappa
2003 new members

Omicron Delta Kappa (ODK) is a national leadership honor society which recognizes
, Students for leadership in campus or community service, social and religious activities,
_ athletics, student government, journalism and the creative and performing arts. Juniors and
seniors who have significantly contributed to campus life in one of these areas and who are
ranked in the top 35% of their class are eligible for ODK membership.

Current members of the Davidson College Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa feel that the
following students deserve to be recognized with this award.

Emmanuel Amos-Abanyie
Patrick Bruce Baetjer
Melinda Clare Baldwin
Elizabeth Jeanne Barnes
Christian Blake Bergeron
Laura Corinne Bondesen

Mary Faith C
William Adam Chalker
Emily Marie Drew
Zachary Luke Farmer
Susanne Elizabeth Francis
Katharine Parker Giguere
Kristine Lynn Grayson
Kristine Jo Harrington
Allison C. Heck

Megan Newpart Kota
-Andrew Goodman Leventhal
Michael Kelly McDonald
James Riley McNab III
Griffin Robert Myers
Emily Elizabeth Oldham
Chandra Nicole Payne
Elizabeth Erwin Pinchak
Susan Grams Robison
Sara Ellen Romeis ©
Cassandra Marie Sams
Elizabeth Kathleen Smith
Sarah Gay Stackhouse
Victoria Anne Statler
Jan Scott Swetenburg
Pearry Green Tarwasokono
Kathryn Hope Tate
David Cantihen Tolley
Emily Marie Van Leeuwen

Mary Kathryn Wilson

dictable, substantial resegregating effect, prob-
ably moving the black students from roughly
five to seven percent of the student body to two
percent or so.”

Addressing the suggestions made in the
White House’s own amicus brief, Davidson’s
brief argues that systems based on’“‘admitting a
percentage of each high school class, or focus-
ing on class or economic circumstance without
looking at racial background,” which may work
for large state schools, are completely imprac-
tical for small selective colleges. Such a system
works more effectively in Texas and other areas
where some high schools are still very segre-
gated. ,

Discussing the effects not only on the col-
leges themselves but also on society at large, the
brief highlights the lives of several esteemed
individuals who benefited from affirmative ac-
tion.

The brief ends with the point that true aca-
demic freedom ought to allow colleges and
universities the right to choose students who
will, “individually and collectively; take the
fullest advantage of what the college has to
offer, contribute most to the educational pro-
cess, and use what they have learned for the
benefit of the larger society.”

Arguments in the case begin April 1 and
the Supreme Court’s decision will have a sig-
nificant impact on the future of Davidson Col-
lege admissions.

arpenter
