IVING

THE: DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OctToser 1, 2003

‘Knead’ lunch-time treats? F ly fishers hook good times

By Amy FREEMAN
Special Contributor.

I was first approached about writing a re-
view of the Knead It? Bakery Cafe in town by
Leslie Mann, whose wife Jessica owns the
bakery. He invited me over for lunch, and since
the bakery is just one mile up Main Street, I
thought I’d stop by and check it out.

When J arrived at the bakery and introduced
myself to Mr. Mann, he immediately sent me
back into the kitchen to meet his wife, and then
explained what the bakery offers for lunch. The
bakery itself has a high ceiling, ‘lots of win-
dows, and an outdoor seating area. Mr. Mann
also showed me plans for a,covered porch at
the front of the bakery, an addition that will
take advantage of this North Carolina weather.
There were newspapers out for customers to
read, and Rubix Cubes on the tables. Mr. Mann
seemed to know most of his customers by name,
and the atmosphere was quite friendly and
pleasant.

As Mr. Mann put it, the trend right now is
quick, healthy lunches, so the bakery caters to
this fad. It offers daily soups, salads, quiches,
sandwiches, and a trio composed of tuna,
chicken, egg, and pasta salad served over
greens. The sandwiches are served on pinwheel
bread or croissants. They also offer croissant
stuffers, with combinations like ham, egg and
cheese, or spinach and feta.

+*sACT NOW!
Book 11 people, get 12th trip
free. Visit the official website
for Spring Break ‘04.
The best deals to the
~ hottest destinations.
Group discounts for 6+ —
www.springbreakdiscounts.com —
or SOU-886.8eUe i

Knead It? Bakery Cafe

(704) 895-2875
408 South Main Street
Davidson, NC

Hours:
Monday - Friday: 7 a.m.-6 p.m
Saturday 8 a.m. - 6 p.m.

I had the spinach and feta stuffer for lunch,
as well as acup of chickenand vegetable soup,
and it was wonderful. The stuffer was served
warm, and the soup had fresh vegetables in it.
The prices on the lunch menu are quite fair,
including the Daily Special of soup and a half
sandwich for $5.

True to its name, The Knead It? Bakery Cafe
alsohas a large selection of baked goods. There
is a variety of pastries, such as big sticky buns,
muffins (including cranberry-orange and cin-
namon-raisin and bran), cakes, pies, cookies,
and cupcakes. Knead It? alsohas coffee, lattes,
cappuccinos, and espressos.

Its proximity to Davidson makes Knead It?
convenient, and the quality of its food makes
it worth the short trip. I highly recommend
stopping by, whether you are just grabbing a
quick lunch, or satisfying a sweet tooth with
home-made goodies. ’

No Experience Required
All looks and ages

Earn $100 - $300 aday

1-888-820-0167, ex. u260

By Lucy LonG
_Staff Writer

When trying to think of an activity that would
offer a refuge from Davidson’ s daily grind and
loan a sense of perspective, two friends and I
decided to test our fly fishing skills. We packed
a lunch, loaded up the car and began our pil-

grimage to fly-fishing paradise.

Our destination was Fay’s Fishing Shop in

* Linville, N.C. Fay, a 60-something woman,

operates her outfitters and fly-fishing guide ser-
vice out of a run down warehouse

Perhaps a bit wounded by the laughs, I wan-
dered further down the river. After a while, I
found my rhythm and the big fish. The water
was Clear, allowing me to see the massive trout.
Excited to see my target, I lost my poise and
galloped through the river in size 11 men’s
boots and waders made for a 6-foot, 180-pound
male. Lesson number 37 of the day: if you run
at fish in oversized clothing and a neon green
rain jacket, they will swim away.

Learning to lay correctly the fly onthe water’s -
surface is an art. It takes years of practice to
master the natural placement of the fly onto the

that sells fly rods, camouflage
pants, and packaged chips and
candy left over from the 1970s.

At first, we had a bit of a com-
munication problem with Fay. We
could not decipher the word “‘shelf”
from Fay’s pronunciation, “cheff.”.
She responded with “ you folks
don’t know what a cheff is” as she
led us to the shelf of packaged pe-
can pies.

Fay then introduced us to Ray.

The OpenRoad

with Lucy Long

current. The trout will not feed
onamiscast fly; they know when
they are being tricked.
Although I had no luck, my
fellow angler was devious
enough to catch a whopper. Af-
tera long fight, she finally reeled
him in. The little guy measured a
good three inches, give or take a
few. I performed minor surgery
-on Mr. Trout to remove the hook.
We of course took a roll full of

Ray, a local fishing guide, showed
us the ‘river and helped us prepare our gear.
After we put on our waders, fishing boots and
vests, we were ready to go.

Rods and flies in hand, we charged the
Linville River with a rare enthusiasm and ig-
nored the storm building in the distance. I doubt
it had received three more energized and igno-
rant anglers. After plunging into the river, I
warned my comrades of catching their line on
the trees along the embankment. We spread
out and began to fish.

I couldn’t wait to make my first cast. After
peeking out of the corner of my eye to make
sure I had an audience, I fed the line out of the
rod, preparing for a divine execution of sheer
fly fishing mastery. I snapped my forearm back
making aclean back cast, sure that I had set my
self up for excellence. As I threw my arm for-
ward, something suddenly whipped me back:
I had caught a tree.

pictures to capture her glory,
basking in the sudden torrential downpour.
Having caught a fish, we were ready to call it
a day. Two of us began to trudge through the
ripping current as the rain pelted our face. The
embankment seemed miles away until our third
friend noticed our exaggerated strains and
yelled, “Ladies, this is not Vietnam! You are
not guerilla warriors tearing through a storm!”
We then realized that it was not as difficult to
cross as we had initially anticipated. ,

We baptized ourselves as expert fishermen,
already planning a future outing. The local
Pappy’s Barbeque lured us with its Southern
comfort food. A reward for a hard day’s work.
Over pulled pork, hushpuppies and sweet tea,
we exchanged our trials and successes as the
avid anglers that we had become. On our way
home, we traveled in silence, wallowing in
indigestion and reveling in the day’s accom-
plishments.

Lattes and lager at Summit

By ANNA LAUZON AND Curis SAID
Staff Writers

For those of you who want to enjoy a bever-
age at Summit on the newly renovated patio,
you now have a plethora of options. We were
elated to find alcohol now gracing the menu
after 5 p.m.

The beer menu features such classics as
Budweiser ($2) and Corona ($3) and also in-
cludes Highland Kashmir IPA ($3) and Weep-
ing Radish Weizen ($3) from the state “First in
Flight.” There’s also Anchor Steam, Harpoon
IPA and Spaten Lager for the more adventur-
ous, each at $3.50.

We were satisfied with the wine selection
and enjoyed the full fruity flavors and hints of
toasted oak in the Cellar 8 Cabernet Sauvignon
($8 glass, $22 bottle) and the spicy explosion
and dark cherry hues in the Castle Rock Pinot
Noir ($7.50, $20). The wine list includes sev-
eral Australian wines, Rosemont Cabernet
Merlot ($6, $18), Alice White Merlot ($5,$16)
and the citrusy Penfold Semillion-Chardonnay.

We look forward to sharing a bottle of
Charles Krug Merlot ($28) and Cabernet

Sauvignon ($28)nexttime we have something —

momentous to celebrate. Next time you are
looking for rich, buttery, tropical flavors with
a twist of Asian pear, you should pop in for
some Chateau St. Jean from Sonoma ($22
bottle, $8 glass).

-Summit’s expanded evening menu also in-
cludes snack items. The ideal complement for
your bold red wine, the cheese board for two
($7.95) or for four ($14.95) includes generous
wedges of Coburn Cheddar with port wine,
' Sage Derbey, Abbeydale Double Gloucester
with chives and the Double Gloucester with a

pungent streak of Blue Stilton served with
crispy wafers crackers.

Not only were we delighted by the setting,
but we also enjoyed a lively game of “Name
That Cheese” as we struggled to match cheese
and description. While the Coburn Cheddar’s
creamy texture reminded us of the orange va-
riety often found in Easy Cheese canisters, other
cheeses danced upon our taste buds with gentle
pirouettes. The Derbey’s pleasant sage flavor
made it our favorite and transported us back to
the rolling hills of our home, West Texas.

If you don’t feel like aculinary trip to Texas,
why not go international with the Grecian
Delight ($6.95), acharming array of hummus,
pita chips, carrots and Kalamata olives. Sum-
mit also offers the ubiquitous Tex-Mex favor-
ite, chips and salsa ($2.95). If you are looking
for something sweet, indulge your desires with
Tiramisu ($4.25), Raspberry White Chocolate
Cheese Cake ($4.25), Kentucky Derby Cake
($3.95), Chocolate Lovin’ Spoon Cake ($3.95),
or acannoli ($3.50). With its new patio and the
myriad of evening offerings, Summit is the
perfect place to spend an autumn night.

Summit Coffee

(704) 895-9090
128 South Main Street .
Davidson, NC

Hours:
Monday - Wednesday:
10 p.m.
Thursday and Friday
-11 p.m.
Saturday: 7 a.m i

Sunday: 8 a.m

6 a.m. -

6 a.m.

-5 p.m.
