@

Saturday, Jan.25 Residence Hall _Disturbance/Alcohol Violation

Public Safety received a call in reference to a disturbance in one of the residence halls.
A student was observed throwing own possessions out into the hallway. Student was angry,
intoxicated and underage. Student has been referred to the Dean’s Office.

Sunday, Jan. 26 Alvarez Student Union Larceny of a Golf Cart

Unknown persons removed golf cart from the Union at approximately 2:34 a.m.. The
golf cart was discovered 10 minutes later parked in front of Chambers. No damage
occurred to the cart and no supplies were missing.

find out how:

INFORMATION SESSION

Monday, February 3, 3.30-4.30pm,
Alvarez Union Room 302

TEACHFORAMERICA

www.teachforamerica.org

Record size of applicant pool —
marks milestone for Admissions

Class of 2007 applications surpass goals

KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

Getting mail is an exciting event in the day of
most students, unless of course one is expecting
a bill. These days, though, barring the care-
package that is the envy of every friend and
hallmate, the mail doesn’t seem to arrive in the
bucketloads that it did in the spring of our high
school year. Since the height of our postal

popularity on April 1 of that year, we have all

experienced a decline in the volume of our mail.
One group not experiencing a similar decline is
the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid.
Imagine signing for 10 postal bins of ical
tions in one day.

Yes, the people of Grey House deserve our
veneration, not just because 3,880 students
across the nation and world are anxiously wait-
ing for their signatures, but also because they
read those tens of thousands of pages of infor-
mation pouring in from August until January.

This year their job is harder than ever. With
applications up almost 15 percent over last

- year’s record high figure, don’t expect to find

Dean Cable idly playing Ultimate Frisbee on a
warm spring day. But is she worried? No—in
fact, she’s excited.

“Quality and diversity are both up this year,”
she reports, (of course meaning nothing against
the Class of 2006). In fact, despite fears that a
troubled economy and strained relations with
the rest of the. world might harm applicant
numbers, the opposite appears true. Increased
security measures in obtaining student visas do
not seem to have swayed international appli-
cants, for their numbers remain ‘similar to last
year.

the United States and some remarkably good
publicity, such as being ranked among the top
10 liberal arts colleges in U.S. News and World
Reports or recognition for highest graduation
rates among NCAA Division | athletes in Sports
Illustrated, has aided Davidson in its quest for
the best class yet.

Other schools have also felt this trend, though
one source told the Davidsonian that “the other
D school” has not experienced quite the same

Also, a larger college-bound population in

boom in applicants.
Davidson’s recruitment strategy seems par-

; ticularly sound. The Admissions office is armed

with a freshly updated viewbook and a rede-
signed web page, and boast experienced staff
set out to publicize Davidson College ad infini-
tum. Do you remember all of those colleges that
sent you letters after taking the PSAT? Davidson
has purchased a large number of names to each
of whom the college sends a brief letter and an
offer for more information. Recognizing
Davidson’s weakness in the areas of ethnic,

economic, and geographic diversity, calling
campaigns seek to connect interested families
with similar parents of current students. Finan-
cial aid remains a priority, and with the new
Sloan music building, Davidson is equipped to
attract even more serious musicians and hopes

‘to build on the current program.

The John Montgomery Belk scholarship, a
cornerstone of the “Let Learning Be Cherished”
campaign, has been expanded this year to ac-
cept nominations for students nationwide, as
opposed to previously just the Southeast. Schol-
arship coordinator Sally Stone Richmond re-
ports at present they have received 426 nomina-
tions, which they will whittle down to eight or
one-hundred semi-finalists. This group will be
interviewed briefly over the phone, then after
another intense round of decisions, and thirty
finalists will be invited to Davidson for Schol-
ars’ Weekend in March. In the end seven or
eight of those 426 superlative students will
actually attend Davidson on Mr. Belk’s tab.
Though seven or eight of 426 is a small number,
it is hoped that students initally attracted by the
Belk Scholarship would enroll even if they did
not win the Belk, having learned more about the
College.

Howsoever they arrive, the class of 2007 is on
its way. 138 students were admitted in Early
Decision I, and roughly thirty more will find out
shortly the results of Early Decision II. The rest
of the record 3,880 students will need to wait
until April 1, that magic day when all the mail
begins to dwindle from a gushing spicket to a
mere trickle. And while the stress of applica-

tions soon abates for those future Wildcats, it

Starts all over again back in Grey House.

Parking, from page 1

these individuals for separate charges, who we
feel are responsible [for the break-ins].”
McKelvey offered his assurances that the Col-
lege will continue to pursue the perpetrators.

Security has also been heightened in the area..
A new. fence surrounding the lot has been
installed. In addition, McKelvey confirmed,
“Patrol in that area has increased with the help.
of Davidson town police, who monitor the lot.
We also continue to monitor it with our own
personnel surveillance.”

Whether stepping up security measures or
seeking new parking options, McKelvey claims

the College is always looking for new ways and
means to improve parking. However, he wants
students to realize that the perspective at which
they look at the problem is important. He said,
“Freshmen assignmentis brought up every year.
By. assigning all freshmen vehicles to Baker
parking lots, the Belk and West lots would be
alleviated of nearly 185 vehicles.”

He adds that while many schools bus students
from their parking lots to dorms and classes,
Davidson students are fortunate enough to have
spots within a fairly accessible distance. In that
sense, the glass is half-full, even if it means your

car won’t be waiting for you ten feet from your
dorm door.
