By STEVE KALISKI

Staff Writer

“The Last Samurai” features an unbeliev-
able last stand. Heroic and defiant, the final
battle of Tom Cruise’s latest film blasts this
outstanding warrior epic into the highest realm
of the most stirring lost causes. As flawless in
its depiction of noble defeat as director Edward
Zwick’s “Glory,” “Samurai” doesn’t go down
without an awesome fight.

Completely involving from the first frame
until the last, “Samurai” proves that historical
adventures do not need to be stiff (“Master and
Commander”) to be dignified. “Samurai” is
both escapist and important at the same time,
and it never forgets that its most important task
is to tell a story.

The movie follows the final gasps of Japan’s
samurai order as seen through a Western per-
spective. Just like Kevin Costner in “Dances
with Wolves,” Cruise plays a Civil War hero
who discovers honor amidst the comforts of a
dying culture.

The year is 1876, and Japan has embarked
ona nationwide attempt to modernize its mili-
tary. The Japanese government appeals to the
state-of-the-art expertise of the United States,
hiring such officers as Nathan Algren (Cruise)
and Col. Benjamin Bagly (Tony Goldwyn) to
whip its agrarian foot soldiers into shape.

Japan’s immediate goal is to completely
eradicate from the country its samurai warriors,
who still believe they have exclusive rights to
protect the nation. For Japan to succeed in a
complete restructuring of its defenses, the stub-
born samurais must admit to their obsolescence.

a
Pm,

b Ys

vs

SA!

Ken Watanabe and Tom Cruise are the last of the samurai.

Algren arrives in Japan tortured by the cru-
elty he facilitated among Native Americans
during the Civil War. When he is captured and

taken prisoner by chief samurai Katsumoto .

(Ken Watanabe) during a botched engagement,
he slowly awakens to the honor of his perse-
cuted, misunderstood captors.

Even though Algren and Katsumoto begin
on opposite sides of the battlefield, they evolve
into inseparable friends who eventually lead
their small samurai force against the Japanese
army together.

While the perfectly orchestrated battles lend
the movie most of its firepower, it is Algren’s
fascinating immersion into the samurais’ soci-
ety that invites constant, well-deserved com-
parison to “Dances with Wolves,” one of the

VAIL COMMONS STUDY HALL

Vail Commons will be open for studying for final exams !!

Thursday, December 11
Friday, December 12
Sunday, December 14

8:00 pm — 1:00 am

Remember — Vail Commons offers Wireless Internet Access
One meal plan swipe required or $3.50 at the door
Beverages available
Enter Vail from the lower patio doors, upstairs doors will be locked

Open @ 11 a.m. 7 days/wk, - Rain or Shine - Serving Full Menu All Day!

Lake Norman -

PAE ELT call
MH, HL a ane
Bh A ve tain a"

SUNDRIES: RESTAURANT: BAR

Voted “Best Waterfront Restaurant on Lake Norman”

Harborside

Every Monday
112 Price Appetizers (dine-n onk)
Every Tuesday

1/2 Price Wings
Buffalo, Barbalo, Barbeque
(dine-in only)
Every Wednesday
Burger Madness
All Burgers: $4.95 (dine in only)

KARAONE NIGHT

EVERY THURSDAY
10 UNTIL CLOSING

18665 Harborside Dr. - (704)896-9013

Go W. on C

LINO EXIe Zo

atawba to Harborside Dr

Follow to end

ce toc rea pera

rier Bros.

riwh age

best epics of this kind. The similarities between
these two sister films never end: embittered
American Civil War hero rejects the luxuries
of his own world by assimilating into a com-
pletely foreign one; hero falls in love with a
beautiful widow (here played by Koyuki) who
lost her husband in battle.

Zwick doesn’t overdo the romance angle,
understanding that finding a mate is probably
the least of Algren’s concerns. Algren wants
to master the art of the samurai and to avenge

himself for his past misdeeds. Seeing the al- .

ways-intense Cruise persevere in this goal is a
joy for the audience. Watanabe, an established
actor in Japan, vividly carries every scene in

Movie Review

Lavine =

.

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2003

which Cruise needs a breather, blending aplay-
ful sense of humor with the horrified guilt of a
man who must bear witness the extinction of
his kind.

The film thoroughly accomplishes the risky
job of combining myth with history. It never
jumps too far out of a believable historical
context, but it carefully avoids feeling like an
adaptation of a high school textbook. Civil War
buffs should chuckle overa running joke about ©
Custer and the disadvantages of facing 2,000
troops with a measly 200.

As for the rest of us, well, don’t be surprised
if, within minutes of leaving the theater, you
find yourself twirling a long pointy object with
the vicarious aplomb of the Internet’s “Star
Wars Kid.” The Last Samurai” is the first movie
in along time that will have you dancing idioti-
cally around the room, tackling your startled
friends with the verve of a warrior, and dream-
ing of the supreme coolness of a different world.

The Last Samurai

Directed by:
Edward Zwick
Written by:
John Logan, Marshall Herskovitz, and

Zwick
Starring:
Tom Cruise, Ken Watanabe
Running time:
144 minutes

Ho! Ho! Ho! Vulgarity refined

By Derek Lou
Arts & Living Editor

“Elf” was pleasant enough. But for those of
us who found its final act annoyingly senti-
mental, here comes “Bad Santa” Claus, right
down Vulgarity Lane.

The title character is a full-time alcoholic
named Willie (Billy Bob Thorton). Come
Christmas-time, he assumes the role of a mall
Santa, giving him access to the stores at night.
The mastermind behind this annual operation
is Marcus (Tony Cox), who plays one of
Santa’s elves during the day. He acquires, with
the help of his wife Lois (Lauren Tom, voice
of Minh from “King of the Hill’’), the malls’
blueprints and plans robberies with payoffs big
enough to keep them happily unemployed for
an entire year.

The film follows the trio to Phoenix, Ari-
zona during one particular season of revels.

Complicating their holiday tradition are
Willie’s increasing fondness for drink, the
mall’s manager (John Ritter, to whom the film
is dedicated), and a strange boy (Brett Kelly)
who stalks Willie. The script adds to these
obstacles a private detective played by Bernie
Mac and Santa fetishist named Sue (Lauren
Graham, the older of the “Gilmore Girls”’).
The movie has a surprising amount of plot,
but its main goal is to arrange these characters
and their quirks to produce as many laughs as
possible. One scene, for example, places Willie,
Marcus, and the Kidina boxing ring. How they
get into that situation is irrelevant. What mat-
ters, as Ihave not yet mentioned, is that Marcus
is an African American little person and the
Kidis portly. Or, inless “correct” terms, Marcus
is a black midget and the Kid is fat. Now put
these characters in boxing gloves and helmets
and watch them fight. Insensitive and offen-

see “Bad Santa,” page 6

