History professor Sally McMillen (left) and Elmore chat.

e

Senior athlete uses love of |
football to write history thesis

Graham Elmore ’03, a history major and
standout football player for the past four sea-
sons, founda way tocombine academics and his
love of sports in his senior history thesis.

The undergraduate research journal Pierian
Spring, published annually by Hendrix College
in association with the Associated Colleges of
the South, will soon publish Elmore’s paper,
“College Football During WW II: On the Home
Front and the Battle Front.”

Elmore wrote the paper for the senior
‘capstone history course last fall. He frequently
met with his teacher and advisor, Professor
Sally McMillen, at the 8 a.m. conclusion of his
early-morning football meetings. By the end of
the semester, McMillen was so impressed with
the paper that she urged him to submit it to
Pierian Spring, and spent several weeks helping
him with revisions to make it more suitable for
publication.

“Luckily I enjoyed what I was researching,
because after working on it an entire semester,
it was tough to pick it up again and work on it
some more,” said Elmore. “But Professor
McMillen did an unbelievable amount of work,
too. There was no guarantee that our. efforts
would pay off, but knowing that she was willing

to keep working with me motivated me to keep
going.”

The paper outlines how collegiate football
during World War II boosted public morale on

.the home front, helped military: institutions

teach lessons of teamwork and prepare soldiers
for conflict and gave soldiers in the field an
emotional outlet.

Elmore also discussed how now-common
football terminology, such as “recruits,” “line-
men in the trenches,” and “long bombs,” was
coined during the war.

As a junior safety in the Wildcats’ defensive
backfield, he was named to the Pioneer All-
Conference team and the Don Hansen Football
Gazette All-American Second Team. His
proudest achievement, however, was playing as
a starter for Davidson’s undefeated team in
2000.

Two weeks after graduation in mid-May, he
will fly to Germany, where he will play club
football this season for the Deggendorf Black
Hawks. With his recent academic credentials in
hand, who’s to say he might not become not
only a star player, but the team’s official histo-
rian.

--College Communications

V) 1en beginning
an exploration of unknown

lands, challenges arise. Winds are
unpredictable. Storms hit unexpectedly.

Uncertainty rules. Superstitions abound.
Why explore alone? USAC, a consortium of 27
US. universities has berths” available for stout-hearted
men and women. With programs in 19 countries and as
Many years of experience, no one is better equipped to
i help you reach your study abroad goals.

When you're setting sail for
ports-of-call unknown, be

’ Dancers wi

AS cn

‘Costa

in ‘diverse’ spring recital

Rehearsals bring back
memories of senior killed
in accident last month

By Matt GarFIELD
Editor

More than 100 performers will take partin the
Dance Ensemble’s spring recital beginning
Thursday night in Duke Family Performance
Hall, but one of Davidson’ s most beloved danc-
ers will be noticeably absent.

Senior Katherine Costa, an avid dancer who
worked tirelessly to expand the ensemble in her
four years on campus, was killed in a car acci-
dent over spring break.

The recital is dedicated to Costa, and two of
dances she played a role in designing, one tap
and one jazz number, will be part of the pro-
gram.

The shows are Thursday, Friday and Satur-
day evenings at 8 p.m. Tickets are $2 and
available at the Union Ticket Office. The two
weekend shows are expected to sell out.

It was Costa’s idea to create a dance that
featured the senior members of Dance En-
semble, and after the accident, they decided to
use it to pay tribute not only to the seniors—but
also Costa herself. Every dancer in the show
will appear in that dance.

“She brought it up last fall,” said performer
Joy Gerdy ‘02. “After her death, everybody
thought, ‘we need to do this.””

Costa was also working on choreography for
a tap dance called ‘Puttin’ on the Ritz” in the
weeks prior to her accident. Sophomore Katie
Zeh picked up where Costa left off and finished
the plans. ;

“We want to celebrate everything she’s done
by finishing her song and making the senior

What: Dance Ensemble’s
spring recital.

The 1-hour, 40-minute
shows will feature 23 dances
and more than 100 perform-
ers.

Where: Duke Family Perfor-
mance Hall

When: Thursday, Friday and
Saturday at 8 p.m.

Tickets: $2 at Union Ticket
Office. Friday and Saturday
shows may sell out.

—

dance happen,” said Maria Berry. “It’s every-
thing she wanted Dance Ensemble to be.”

Performers said it was bittersweet to rehearse
for perhaps their “most diverse” program ever—
this spring’s show includes modern, lyrical,
Native American, belly dancing, hip hop and
ballet numbers—knowing Costa wasn’t there
to be part of it.

“Tt hits us all at random times,” said Dance
Ensemble President Betsy Pinchak. “The first
time I saw‘‘‘Puttin’ on the Ritz,’ I gotchoked up.
I’m watching choreography that she created.”

Added Vice-President Catherine Foster:
“Katherine taught me everything I know about
the theatre. This whole concert is her legacy.”

The Dance Ensemble has grown rapidly over
recent years, increasing from as few as 10
members in 1998 to more than 100 this year.
The group hopes to add even more dance classes
in coming months.

“Our hope is to be able to cater more to
different levels of difficulty—through the
classes of choreography that we offer,” said
Foster.

Australia
Chile * China * Czech Republic
~ Costa Rica * Denmark * England
' France * Germany * Ghana * Ireland ,
Israel * Italy * Malta * New Zealand * Scotland * Spain
Sweden * Thailand

University credit
Scholarships available
Language classes at all levels
«Month, summer, semester & yearlong programs
Wide range of academic courses
Internships

Field trips & tours

UNIVERSITY
STUDIES
ABROAD

small classes

wens LI SAC. .

HTTP://USAC.UNR.EDU* iy AX

