14

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Megan Hollar "06 was named CAA rookie of the year last spring

New coach, skilled freshmen
make big impact in first meet

By CHUCK OSTENDORFF
Staff Writer

The men’s and women’s swim teams began
the new season this past weekend at Emory
under new head coach Tim Kelly. The men
lost 151-81, while the women did slightly
better, losing 144.5-96.5. Despite the defeat
for both teams on Saturday, records were
broken and the team returned with goals for a
successful year.

Eli Trefzger ’07 started the season on Satur-
day by setting a new Davidson record in the
1000 free with a time of 10:34.81, shattering
the 10:37.38 set by Leisa Rossello in 1998.

Commenting on her record, Trefzger said,
“Tam not focused on breaking records; instead
I am trying to swim at my best, both for the
team and for myself.”

She also came in first in the 500 free and
second in the 200 butterfly.

2002-2003 CAA Rookie of the Year Megan
Hollar ’06 swam for first place in the 200 I.M.
and second in the 200 breast. Sarah Laws ’04
also took first in the 200 back.

For the men, captain Robert Koch ’04 took
first place in the 200 free with a time of
1:48.36. Close behind Koch, Brad Poole ’06
finished third in the 200 free. Poole also scored
for the team in his first place finish in the 100
free.”

The men’s 400-yard freestyle relay team,
consisting of Josh Stone ’07, Steve Tolson ’06
and Adam Secrest ’06, and Koch, finished
first with a final time of 3:20.46. Others scor-
ing for the men included Jamie Hopkins ’07,
with a second in the 200 breast, and Charlie
Hunter °04, taking third place in the 200 fly.

The captains this year are seniors Charlie
Hunter, Michael Mazza, Robert Koch, Mary
Ashley Cain and Joanie Gidas. Transitioning
into this season with a new coach, the captains
will be an integral part in the success of their

last year here. But they have no doubts about
what their new coach will bring to the pro-
gram.

Coming from Purdue University, Tim Kelly
has coached several NCAA All-Americans
and led his team to several Big Ten Champion-
ships.

As Cain explains, “Tim brings a fresh new
perspective to the team. He is very enthusias-
tic and wants to take our team to the next level;
he is asking a lot and getting a lot out of the
swimmers. Everyone is rising to the standards
he is setting, and I believe it will be our best
year yet.”

Kelly’s focus on the individual in practices
has proven to be helpful to the swimmers.
Poole described this focus: “Tim writes up to
five workouts for different groups in one prac-
tice. This allows everyone to train the way
they need to train and focus on their specialty,
which will hopefully translate into more wins
this season.”

Both teams have a talented group of fresh-
men. According to Koch, “The freshmen are
enthusiastic and dedicated swimmers. It is
great to see the energy they bring to the team.”

Part of that energy can be attributed to
Trefzger. With a school record already in her
books, and several meet records this past Fri-
day in the annual Red/Black meet, she is one
of the freshman the team will be looking to for
a big season.

I love the atmosphere the team has made in
and out of practice,” she says.

The team has high hopes this season, one
being a win against new CAA team College of
Charleston. Concerning this meet, Koch pre-
dicts, “College of Charleston doesn’t have a
chance. When we visit them on November 15,
we are going for the win.’

But first, the women will take on Gardner-
Webb on October 25, before both teams square
off against Eastern Carolina on. November 8.

WEDNESDAY, Ocroser 22, 2003

i ake to Morehead St. erases
football’s Pioneer title hopes

White throws four
interceptions, defense
surrenders 442 yards

By WALKER SAIK

Staff Writer

Warning: no uplifting story here.

The Davidson football squad just got beat.

Morehead State wore out the ’Cats over the
long haul arid capitalized on five turnovers,
four of which were interceptions thrown by
junior Damion
White, to take the
game by a final of
35-10.

We were just beat
by a better football
team,” said head
. coach Mike Toop.
“They were better

want to admit that,
Damion White ‘05 PY that was a fact.

e game of foot-
ball is about making plays, and they did that
more than we did. Everybody continues to
move the ball against us, and offensively, we
never gave ourselves a chance to score with all
the turnovers.”

This match was pivotal in taking the top
ranking in the PFL South Division, and with
the loss, Davidson is merely with a feeling of
“coulda, woulda, shoulda.” With three games
left, they still have a chance to secure their
sixth consecutive winning season, but after a
hope-instilling homecoming match, settling
for an above .500 record seems very anti-
climactic.

Up until the 2nd quarter, Davidson matched
Morehead point-for-point, but just before the

half, the Eagles opened up alittle bit of bseathi
ing room.

Controlling the ball for much of the quarter,
Morehead drove down the field on a 16-play,
84-yard drive that gave them the lead for good.

' They scored on a two-yard run up the gut and

followed up a few minutes later with a couple
long passes to lock up the 21-7 halftime lead.

Davidson held tight, though, shutting out
the tireless foe for the third quarter and even
putting three on the board thanks to a record-
tying 52-yard field goal by Chris Costello ’04,
but mistakes proved even more costly in the
fourth quarter, where the Eagles scored 14
unanswered points. -

“You turn the ball over five times against
that team, and you’ ve got no chance to win —
especially with the way we played defen-
sively,” said Toop.

Even with the defense giving up the big play
— Morehead racked up 442 total yards of
offense — the Davidson offense was no help.
White and QB Tom Cook ’06 combined to
throw 39 passes with just 14 completions and
four interceptions. Tack on the fumble, and

_there’s a hefty five turnovers the ’Cats had to

overcome.

Injuries haven’t exactly gone Davidson’s
way, though. Having been thin on the offen-
sive and defensive lines especially all season,
the team lost another for an indefinite period
of time this past week: defensive back Ricky
Childers ’06.

This isn’t the NFL where you lose players,
and you can go out and get more. You lose
players and that’s it,” said Toop. ““You’ve got
what you’ ve got, and we’re about tapped out
right now.”

Despite all the adversity, the squad is hyped
up and ready to return to its home turf this
week for parent’s weekend. They’ll be up
against PFL rival Austin Peay for the 1 p.m.
game.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

and Policy

aud Policy combines Columbia
i University’s handsson approach
to teaching public policy and
administration with
pionecring thinking about

the environment. Beginning in
June, this twelve-month
program takes place at.
Columbia University’s

New York campuses.

Earn your MPA in
Environmental Science

The Master of Public Administration
Program in Environmental Science

For more information, please call 212-854-3142,
e-mail: hr46@icolumbia.edu, or visit our Web site.

Now accepting applications for the program
beginning in June 2004.

