SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003 9

Wildcat sports: Why should we care?

The Davidson Wildcats. This generic name
predictably does little to incite excitement
among fans or dread among opponents of our
humble athletic program. Davidson teams,
most of which compete in relatiye obscurity
compared to the top-tier division one pro-
grams in the nation, do not warrant the atten-
tion of college sports enthusiasts. Our
football field is plain. Our gym is
average. The ’Cat Pack are the Baker
Buzzkills to Duke’s Cameron
Crazies.

This being said, why bother going
to games? Why stress over wins and
losses? Why care?

I found myself headed to the li-
brary after an intense basketball game
last year. Wayne Bernard ’03 had
just turned in one of the best perfor-
mances of his career and won the
game for us. I walked in angry that I
had to study after such a great win.

The first thing I saw was Bernard
sitting alone at a table, working diligently. As
sad as that might be to think about, it perfectly
describes my affection for Davidson sports:
he beat me to the library.

In this period of bad attitudes and bad people
in sports, Davidson athletes give me someone
and something to root for. College sports used
to be the place to turn to when you couldn’t
stomach all the garbage that goes on in the
pros. With admission and academic scandals,
embarrassing athlete graduation rates, and

countless other media nightmares, division
one sports are starting to seem like the pro’s
with less talent. I can’t wait until they start
paying the athletes.

Davidson is one place where the idea of
students, not amateur big shots with inflated
egos and GPAs, competing for the love of

competition still exists.

All of our athletes deserve to be here. If I
were to inquire, I would probably find that
most had better academic credentials for ad-
mission than I did. And once they get here,
they deserve to stay here— as Wayne Bernard
could probably tell you.

They have practices year-round. They have
meetings, workouts, and coaches breathing
down their necks. When there’ s a paper due in
political science, they have thattoo. There are

no easy classes for athletes, although they
often seem to know the best ones to take.
There are no special housing arrangements, no
special privileges — unless you consider sitting
at the football table in Commons to be one.
Instead of a pampered ride through a college
experience that no one here could ever begin
to imagine, they get to enjoy all the
benefits of a full academic and full
athletic schedule.

And let’s not forget to root for the
underdog. From bad movies like
Rudy to great ones like Major League
it’s nearly impossible not to cheer
for the long shot. While we might be
dominant at the D-III level, I take
pride in the fact that our school,
small in scholarships and in num-
bers, is willing to go head-to-head
with any school in the nation. It’s all
worth it for that day when we beat
UNC ortake Ohio State to the buzzer.

With the burden of extra work at a
school where it doesn’t seem such a thing
could exist, with athletic fame and fortune
nowhere on the horizon, our athletes compete
for pride. They compete for each other and for
their school and for the fans. That’s enough to
make me care, and it should be enough for
anyone else who thinks the sports world is in
dire need of some Base-Ket-Ball to overlook
the plain uniforms, lame mascot, and high
school bands and cheer for a program that is
far from generic.

Around the Sports World

JerF Davis
Staff Columnist

>

This column will serve to inform you about
what’s going on in the sports world outside of
the 28035 (our zip code). For you avid
SportsCenter followers who don’t eat a Com-
mons meal without Dan Patrick’s voice to
accompany you, I will try to addin a few items
you wouldn’t find on ESPN. Here it goes:

The United States Men’s Basketball team
conquered this half of the globe in winning the
Tournament of the Americas in Puerto Rico.
The team clinched the gold with a 106-73
victory over Argentina. The US won all ten of
their games by an average margin of 30.9
points . . . Canada and Steve Nash’s hope of
making the Olympics were nixed in their 79-
66 loss to Puerto Rico in the bronze medal

game . . . More losses for Canadians: the
Florida Marlins swept the Montreal Expos
to gain the lead in the NL wild card race over
the Philadelphia Phillies, who lost to the
Boston Red Sox 13-9. The Sox used a six-run
ninth inning thanks in

from the lineup and hospitalized minutes be-
fore Sunday’s game due to exhaustion. . .The
California Supreme Court ruled 6-1 that
coaches can be legally liable for athletes get-
ting injured under their jurisdiction. The court

said that athletes assume

part to Trot Nixon’s
grand slam...Last week-
end in the Red Sox-Yan-
kees series, Manny
Ramirez sat out the three
games with what was
said to be Pharyngitis.

“Manny Ramirez sat
out three games of the
Red Sox- Yankees

a great deal of risk when
playing sports, so
coaches can only be le-
gally liable for injuries
if the conduct is reck-
less or if they actually
wanted the athlete to get

On Sunday, he wasseen S@71€S... He Was Seen _ hurt... apparently Gi-
ata local sports bar hang- . ants skipper Felipe
ing out with an unidenti- ata local bar WI th an Alou had read the court
fied member of the Yan- . . reports, got nervous of
kees. The Yankees lead unidentified Yankee. ” a lawsuit, and sent
the Sox inthe AL East by Bonds to the hospital . .

5.5 games... 20 British . Last year’s captain of

jockeys walk out of Leicester Racecourse to
protest the ban of cell phones in weighing
rooms. Officials say that lines can be traced
and confidential information from the jockeys
can be leaked to the public, yet the walkout
caught everyone by surprise . . . Hours after
being released from the hospital on Monday,
Barry Bonds hit a two-run, bases-loaded
double in the top of the ninth. Bonds was cut

Michigan State’s football team died at age 23.
Brian Ottney, who resided i Beach,
CA, had a seizure before being pronounced
dead . . . Another tragedy, the Malaysian
Open Squash Championship for men in
Kuala Lumpur was cancelled. Rumor is the
cancellation was due to the absence of the
Malaysian prime minister .. Mugatu?

For you sports fans...
DAVIS’ PICKS OF THEWEEK

migiglio@davidson.edu.

the right side of the ball and catch this must-

in print, e-mail Sports Editor Mike i lic

Outside the Den:
Washington Redskins vs. New York Jets on

see eee es ee ae
