Corner —

with Cannon Hodge

* oe %

The Hat-Wearer Manifesto

Hats. Ahh...they’re so mysterious. Cer-
tainly, it was that fabulous big-brimmed black
hat that birthed Holly Golightly. Certainly, it
was the shadow that the big black brim cast
that made her so glamorous, so delicate,
so...grand. Sure, the big sunglasses and swept-
up hair did something but their final, mastered
effect worked only because of that magnifi-
cent hat.

And then there’s me: Cannon Hodge. I’m
nothing like Audrey Hepburn nor am I any-
thing close to Holly Golightly, aside from the
Texas connection and Tiffany’ s obsession, but
I love my hats. No, my hat collection doesn’t
fill an entire room, but I have enough hats to
keep me guarded throughout all of the seasons.

There are my cowboy hats, my wide-
brimmed sun-hats (available in such keen
candy colors), my winter hats (yes, there’s the
babushka; actually, I own two), and the newly
acquired Carolina Blonde baseball hat. I never
realized that I owned such an extensive collec-
tion until...well, I really don’t know.

Here’s the history. Believe it or not, I used
to rodeo. I only faired the quarter-horse West-

ern Pleasure circuit and the Fort Worth Stock .

Show and Rodeo but, when you’re on a horse
and inside a formal arena, cowboy hats are
essential. There’s a law of decorum when it
comes to this rule, and yes, it’s arule. The black
or tan felt hats are worn during the winter
months, unless you’re the bad-guy in a John
Wayne movie and then you only wear a black
hat. The straw hat is saved for the spring and
summer months to allow ventilation.

My sun-hats have a different, more trivial

story that began along time agoinaplacecalled
Charleston, S.C. When Momma came to visit
me (I worked in a pillow store), she decided
that I absolutely needed a gracious Southern
hat to wear as I lounged around on the beach.
Ofcourse, I became slightly addicted and have
since bought lilac, turquoise, black, and beige,
in addition to the original orange. The straw
hats are quite nice to wear during the spring,
summer and autumn months.

_ My winter hats, including the babushkas, and
that obsession started around the same time that
I rodeoed. Believe it or not, I used to be a se-
rious skier. (I know! The secrets that we all
keep.) It was during that snowy fashion-era
marked by those ridiculously crazy hats. I
owned one resembling a purple elephant. At
some point I became a bit more conservative
and just stuck to amaroon, polar-fleece hat with
googly eyes and dog-ears.

I quit skiing but continued buying winter
hats. Again, Momma contributed and gave me
her delightful mink babushka from the 1980s
and another babushka with a floppy brim. I also
have a few knit hats to match my gloves or

mittens and the vintage felt hats from:the local. .

antique store. Now there are too many.

So. Contrary to popular belief, my hats are
not so much of a fashion statement as proof of
aridiculous addiction and maybe an attempt to
be celebrity incognito. Hats are wonderful and,
if you wear them right, the perfect accessory to
spruce up any ensemble.

Oh, and by the way, have you seen the new
white fox fur hat at Neiman Marcus? It’s in-
credible. Note to self...

On THE Cat WALK

Will Arnold make a good governor?

Staff Writer

works.and what doesn’t work in “School of
Rock.” What works is Jack Black. What doesn’t
work is everything else.

This is not to say that Richard Linklater’s

(“Dazed and Confused,” “Waking Life”) first
mainstream effort fails in every respect except
its leading star. Black, the manically talented
musical spaz behind Tenacious D, so thor-
oughly dominates this feel-good formula pic-
ture that you can’t help but give it a nod of
approval.

Undoubtedly the most carefree physical
comic since Chris Farley, Black careens
through “School of Rock” without devoting a
single thought to subtlety or moderation. Un-
like Farley, however, Black has some genuine
vocal pipes that give this role something more
valuable than outrageous sight gags.

He plays rocker Dewey Finn, the kind of

ingratiating, egomaniacal guitarist who thinks
he was the missing link in Led Zeppelin but
who couldn’t cut it in most garage bands. In
fact, even the group he began himself eventu-
ally becomes so sick of his needless solos and
mistimed moshes that they vote to fire him.
' With his timid roommate Ned Schneebly
(Mike White) prodding him for cash, Dewey
begins a quest for dew band. Without any
immediate bites, he accepts a substitute teach-
ing position under the false identity of
Schneebly atanelitistelementary school. There
he is greeted with an air of prestige by the
school’s nervous principal (Joan Cusack) and
herjovial colleagues, all of whom instantly take
a liking to him.

Ofcourse, once Dewey settles into the class-
room, he becomes the loveably obnoxious and

apathetic character, we have come to-expect.

from Black. Keeping his eyes riveted to the
clock until the 3 p.m. dismissal, he has no in-
tention of teaching his fourth graders anything
productive. It is not until he stumbles across
these students busy in their music
class that he realizes that they
might be the answer to his urgent
employment needs.

Carefully avoiding confronta-
tion with Cusack’ s typically quirky
Principal Mullins, Dewey as-

* sembles a rock n’ roll-intensive —

curriculum designed to prepare his
students for a culminating perfor-
mance at the “Battle of the Bands.”
He assigns each child a position,
either on stage or behind the
scenes, and the chemistry among
the group quickly accumulates.

Itis not difficultto distinguish between what

I

« c { t
School ot Rock

tichard Linklate:
Written by:
Mike White
ne
jack Black, Joan Cusack, Mike White

of the basics of the “unlikely teacher” recipe,
leaving Black in charge of lending the film
some sort of uniqueness. Teacher hates stu-
dents, students dislike teacher, teacher makes
a connection, teacher and students become
indescribably meant for each other—the film-
makers never stray from such familiar plot
territory.

Linklater wisely nixes the dual relationship
focus of the somewhat similar “About a Boy”
because the kids here are not nearly as interest-
ing as Black. Mike White’s script pays hom-
age to every adolescent insecurity, from the
overachieving band manager who worries
about grades to the apprehensive guitarist suf-
fering from parental pressure to the rebellious
drummer who just wants an excuse to break
the dress code. Thankfully, with Black con-
trolling almost every frame, we never have to
dwell over their cliched angst.

The sweet climatic scene plays like a gentler
version of the “8 Mile” finale. Black’s over-
the-top vocals blend nicely with the kids’ in-
strumental talents to form a genuinely enter-
taining sequence. As in “A Mighty Wind,”
songs that seemed silly earlier in the film be-
come involuntarily hummable, thanks in part
to Black’s solid rock delivery.

Overall, “School of Rock” won’t stick
around in your memory for long. As a whole it

,neither offends nor impresses. If nothing else,

however, you should leave the theater satis-
factorily amused by one of the screen’s most
exciting new personas, the predictably unpre-
dictable Jack Black.

The movie shyly adheres to all Jack Black headlines ‘School of Rock’

Strokes, from page 5

limited format of traditional rock instrumenta-
tion, and that formula holds true on “Room on
Fire.”

Their palette has expanded some in the few
years since the last album, though: the leadoff
single “12:51” samples New Wave keyboards
straight off the Cars’ debut album, and, oh,
those handclaps. Is there a single song that is
not infinitely bettered by the inclusion of
handclaps? The song is as good as anything on

_. “Is This It”: the keyboard lineis infectious, and

singer Julian Casablancas seems to have re-

placed the blustery Sinatra swagger of “Is This

It” with a cute, little, nursery rhyme jingle.
 S*3ACT NOW!

Book 11 people, get 12th trip

- free, Visit the official website

_ for Spring Break ‘04.

_ The best deals to the

hottest destinations.
_Group discounts for 6+

“12:51” is the song that leaps out the most,
which leads to a problem that plagues “Is This
It” and “Room on Fire”: working within such
limited parameters, the songwriting has to be
dead on to avoid repetition; when the songs are
there, the Strokes are the only band that mat-
ters, and when they’ re not, it’s difficult to stay
interested. .

So just how is the new Strokes album? It’s Ss.
definitely good. I’m not sure if it’s great. Part

- Of the beauty of “Is This It” is that songs that

didn’t grab you the first time around had the

. chance to become your favorites. “Hard to

Explain” anyone? Only time will tell if the same
is true, .on “Room on Fire.”

No Experience Required
All looks and ages

Earn'$100- $300 a day
