Soccer stumbles at UNCG after
home wins over Duke, Wofford | potential into positive results

By GEorF FEHLING
Staff Writer

The ’Cats posted their fifth shutout of the
season on Saturday, winning 1-0 against
Wofford (2-9-0), but fell short Tuesday night
with a 3-1 loss to UNC-Greensboro (5-2-2).

The split put Davidson at 7-3-2 overall and 2-.

1-0 in the SoCon.

The weekend game against the Terriers was
not the prettiest, but it was a key win because
it was a conference game. id

“Wofford battled hard,” said head coach
Matt Spear. “Every conference game is a
challenge, and we have to be at our best
because no one is going to hand out wins.”

Davidson controlled the game, out-shoot-
ing Wofford 15-5 and scoring the lone goal.
Nick Hansell ’04 got his team-leading fifth
goal of the season late in the second half.
Offensive pressure and a strong defense kept
the Terriers in their own half of the field
throughout the first half, but Davidson was not
able to put away a goal.

“We weren’t as sharp as we would have
liked to be in the first half,” said Spear. “It took
us longer that expected to find our rhythm out
there.”

Despite more opportunities, the first goal
did not come until late in the 81“ minute of the
contest. Preston Davis ’05 crossed a ball that
was redirected by John Latting ’06 to a waiting
Hansell. Hansell headed the ball past the Ter-
rier keeper and put the’’Cats up 1-0.

“Nick was very strong today,” Spear com-
mented. “He really stepped forward and played
the line for us. It was very fitting for him to get
the game-winner on a well-orchestrated cor-
ner kick.”

The team headed right into another big
match away against UNC-Greensboro Tues-
day night in the UNC-G soccer stadium. De-
spite the importance of winning SoCon
matches, Davidson fell short.

“This was a very good, competitive confer-
ence match,” said Spear. “It definitely could
have gone either way. We had plenty of pos-
sessions but we just werent dangerous enough
with our attack.”

_ . 0 oii ‘oady
Marco Antunez ’07 fights off a
Duke defender in last week’s win

After going into halftime with the score 1-1,
the Davidson offense controlled the game
with numerous chances. The defense was put
to the test and was working under the guidance
of Hauser, who made his first starting appear-
ance filling in for starting goalie Bart Creasman
who was out with a concussion. Hauser made
four saves in the game.

“We had our chances to win the game,” said
Hauser, “but UNCG capitalized on their own
chances and it really hurt us. They were able to
get back in the game and take it away from us.”

One week ago, the team knocked off Duke
2-0. The victory marked Davidson's first over
Duke since the 1990 season when.the, Wild-
cats topped the Blue Devils, 3-2. Duke falls to
2-7-1 this season.

“Anytime we beat an ACC team, it is a big
step forward for our program," said Spear.
"We mixed up the starting lineup a bit tonight
and the new players brought new energy to the
field."

The Wildcats will travel to Elon on Satur-
day for a 2 p.m. conference contest.

Baker leads runners at
rainy Pennsylvania meet

By AustIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

This past weekend, the men’s cross-country
team traveled to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania to
race against some of the best teams of the
Northeast at the Paul Short Run at Lehigh
University.

The weather was perfect on Friday as the
Wildcats previewed the course, with a blue
sky and cool breeze. The team awoke on
Saturday, however, to discover that the sky
had blackened and the cool breeze hed t been
replaced by a biting rain.

Nevertheless, “The team ran very well de-
spite some adverse course conditions,” ac-
cording to co-captain Chris Schmader ’04.

Although the team victory proved elusive,
there were many impressive individual per-
formances. Jonathan Baker ’06 was the first

harrier to cross the finish line, with a time of
25:58 for 8 kilometers (about 45 meters short
of 5 miles). Co-captain Chris Schmader ’04
was next to finish for Davidson, crossing the
line in a time of 26:26. Austin Mercadante ’06
and Dave Bunge ’04 finished with times of
26:33 and 26:36, respectively.

The race of the day for Davidson, though,
belonged to Matt Rhodes ’07, who finished
with the fifth fastest time for Davidson (26:43)
despite running in the “B Race.”

All five times were season lows.

Head coach Gary Andrew was pleased with -

the effort put forth by his team. ““We needed an
effort like this after our not so impressive
outing at the Great American two weekends

ago. To become a really good team and a’

contender at the conference level, we must
learn to race well consistently,” he said.

The team is now gearing up for the North
Carolina Intercollegiates Race on October 18.

LF OMBOMILS: Ss

Gaaaarads:

Spe - C-"Giadicsdavis ~

Wednesday is

1 All You Can Eat

\ Spaghetti Night!! 5

Breads/Pizza baked from scratch ae
oe Gectiiid outs tat Next to Food Lion)

~ 20129 W. Main St.

Py Ha base Yoana Qe, Brats Je Set i Ee fat Cee ce BY Yd ln

SPORTS

Wepnespay, OcroseR 8, 2003

Golf team quietly turning

Sophomores Davis, Dillon
turn in low scores as

_. linksters elevate program

By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

The Davidson golf team may be the team
least discussed around campus. It might con-
tain the players least recognized by other
students, and it certainly garners the least fan
support of any sport. The Davidson golf could
also be quietly having one of the most success-
ful seasons of any fall sport.

The last weekend in September (27-28), the
team traveled up to Sun-
set Beach, N.C., to“de-
fend its Sea Trail Inter-
collegiate tournament
title from the previous
season. Of the five
Davidson players who
traveled, not one was a
senior. In fact, it turned
out to be the stellar play
of two sophomores,
Christian Davis and Tim
Dillon, who paced the ’Cats throughout the
two day event.

After one round, Davis recorded a team-
low score of 72, and of the twenty competing
teams, Davidson remained in third place, two
shots behind Southern Conference rival Elon.

Throughout the event, Davis and Dillon
acted as role models for the two participating
freshmen, Steve Mayo and Alex Knoll. Dan
Walker ’05 was the lone junior closing out the
scoring for the Wildcats. |

' As Davis later said, “[The] two freshmen :

. got good tournament experience and got to
feel what it’s like to play well in college golf.”

Perhaps benefiting from being exposed to
competition early in the their freshmen-years
themselves, Davis and Dillon came back strong
the next day. They both carded 74’s on the
final day of the tournament, allowing Davidson
to finish with a combined two-day score of
588, good enough for a three-shot victory over

ae fos

on bol eee Se Mei lL ae Jee

“This year it just seems
that everyone on the team in the 49er Classic,
has realized that we have
a lot of potential.”

- Christian Davis

Gardner-Webb. 3

“Defending the title at Sea Trail-was great —
it gave us good confidence going into the rest
of the fall season showed us again how when
our guys play solid, we have a really good
team,” Dillon said. {

This past Monday and Tuesday, the Wild-
cats looked to continue their momentum at the
49er Collegiate Classic. Played closer to home
in nearby Huntersville, Davidson again found
itself in third place after one round.

Instead of a larger field filled with smaller
Div. schools, however, this group of partici-
pants included, among others, Xavier, Ne-
braska, Indiana, and Marquette. .

Another key difference from the previous
week was a slight re-
versal of roles among
Davidson teammates.

Mayo carded the low-
est first round score for
the team with a four-
under 68, followed by
Knoll and his 71.
Walker, Davis, and
Dillon all followed in
succession with low to
mid 70’s themselves.

On Tuesday, the Wildcats ‘sustained their
solid play with another round of 4-under 284
as a team, but the hot shooting of Xavier (13-
under after one round) was too much for the
*Cats. Still, they managed to finish fourth in a
field compiled of one of the top 10 and three of
the top 50 schools in the nation.

“T think it’s obvious now,” Dillon said. “We
have acompetitive D1 golf team... Whereas
at this point we were struggling a bit last year,
this year We’re getting offtoa really good start
with strong finishes.”

Davis agrees: “This year it just seems that
everyone on the team has realized that we have
a lot of potential . . . I know that this is going
to be a very successful year for Davidson golf,
and I think that we can finally make a name for
ourselves on a higher level.”

Perhaps people around campus will begin to
take notice as well.

SRE DR PERE A De ew EN
