12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS |

Trefzger paces women

By Cuyuck OsTENDORFF
Staff Writer

The women’s swim-team came home this
past Saturday with a victory over the College
of Charleston in their first CAA conference
meet. Improving their record to 2-2, the Wild-
cats beat the Cougars 202-96, while the men’s
team fell to 0-3 on the season, losing 159-137
to Charleston.

The women’s team began and finished the
meet with first-place finishes in relay events.
In the first event, the 200 medley relay team,
consisting of Sara Laws ’04, Megan Hollar
06, Vanessa Witt 04, and Brigit Barry ’07,
won witha time of 2:07.43. In the last event for
the women, the 200 freestyle relay team of
Barry, Hollar, Kristen Shields ’06, and Jenni-
fer Hoekstra ’05 placed first in a time of
1:53.01.

In the end, the women would place first in
all events except two. Eli Trefzger ’07, after
being named CAA co-performer of the week,
continued to swim strong, placing first in three

events: the 800 freestyle, the 400 freestyle,
and the 200 butterfly.
Laws and Hollar also won multiple events.

Laws placed first in both the 100 and 200-

backstroke. Similarly, Hollar swept the 100
and 200 breaststroke. Others to win for the
Wildcats included Erin Rosintoski ’04, first in
the 200 freestyle; Witt, first in the 200 IM; and
Shields, first in the 100 freestyle.

For the men’s team, Jamie Hopkins ’07
came away with an exciting first-place finish
in the 200 breaststroke after an upsetting dis-
qualification in the 100 meter breast stroke.
Also finishing first for the men were Brad
Poole ’06 in the 100 butterfly, Steve Tolson
’06 in the freestyle, captain Charlie Hunter ’04
in the 200 butterfly, and captain Robert Koch
04.

Koch said that for the men’s team, “losing to
Charleston was very disappointing, but we
were able to maintain our focus and become a
stronger team. Every guy got up on the blocks
and raced; no one backed down.”

Both teams will have a chance to swim
against the College of Charleston again this
weekend at the Gardner-Webb Invitational.

Mercadante, Fillnow lead
runners in NCAA regionals

Sports INFORMATION

Both the men’s and women’s cross country
squads concluded the 2003 season at the NCAA
Southeast Regional Championships on Satur-
day morning at Lake Kristi. The men placed
18th overall while the women didn’t qualify
for a team result because only four runners
competed.

Sophomore Austin Mercadante paced the
Wildcat men in the 10K event, crossing the
finish line in 32:43. Two other ’Cats com-
pleted the course in under 33 minutes - sopho-
more Jonathan Baker (32:47) and senior Ben
Gaspar (32:50).

Juniors Nick Lehman (34:07) and David
Bunge (34:26) rounded out the scoring for
Davidson.

As Chris Schmader ’04 would later say,

“The team rebounded well from a disappoint-
ing performance at the conference meet, and
our top three runners had especially strong
races.”

N.C. State won the men’s regional team title
while Thomas Morgan of Kentucky took the
individual championship with a time of 29:56.

On the women’s side, junior Kelly Fillnow
once again led the Wildcats. After finishing
second overall at the SoCon Championships
two weekends ago, Fillnow placed 80th at

. Tegionals with a time of 22:21 in the 6K

course. Fellow junior Sally Stanhope followed
shortly behind Fillnow at 22:39. Seniors
Katherine Hatch (23:06) and Laura Puckett
(23:31) were the only other Davidson harriers
to compete.

The Tar Heels of North Carolina captured
the women’s team crown and took the top
three spots in the individual standings as well.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2003

Freshmen key to wrestling’s
swimmers in win over CofC hopes for first SoCon win

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Since joining the Southern Conference in
2000, Davidson’s wrestling team has yet to
manage its first conference victory. Despite
catrying a combined 0-15 conference mark,
low losses to graduation along with a host of
new freshmen have the ’Cats looking to build
upon past seasons and earn respect among
their SoCon peers. a

Previous seasons have been hard on the
*Cats. A new coaching staff three years ago
brought with it all the expected difficulties
experienced in the tender transition period.
The predominately-young ’ Cats have wrestled
with depleted rosters against established op-
ponents, managing only a single team victory
over the past two seasons. The ’Cats, however,
appear to finally be clawing their way back
towards contention.

Now in his third season, head coach T.J.
Jaworsky has settled into his position nicely.
His name recognition as a world class wrestler
seems to be paying off in the recruiting depart-
ment. This year brings one of the strongest
recruiting classes in Davidson history.

“We have some great freshmen coming in,”

said Jaworsky. “We’re getting a little better

each year.” 7

The incoming class of ’07 brings some
much-needed relief to the depleted roster of
the past several seasons. The new recruits are
Jim Avola, Marc LaRochelle, Matt Morris,
Jayson Powers, Joseph Scognamiglio and
Marcus Boyd. The past year saw the loss of

. only one wrestler, Grant Doornbos ’03, to

graduation. The augmented roster should al-
low the ’Cats to match their opponents as far
as numbers go.

“The biggest difference between this year
and the past several years is that we actually
have a full team,” said Patrick Coman ’06.

Even with the full squad, the ’Cats are still
a noticeably smaller unit than most major
conference opponents.

“A key is to stay healthy,” said Jaworsky,
“even with the full roster.”

Overcoming the numerical handicap of sea-
sons past is definitely‘a major step in the right
direction. Still, the mats will determine how
far the "Cats have come.

VMI’s recent Keydet Invitational featured
several Davidsonfreshmen achieving top-three
finishes in their respective weight classes.

Matt Morris ’07 marched through the 184-
pound weight class before falling in the finals.
In the 125-pound bracket,/Jim Avola ’07 split
his first twd-matches but pinned his next two
opponents to secure third place. Marc
LaRochelle ’07 won his first two matches in
the 141-pound weight class. The trip to Vir-
ginia served as a talent-affirming demonstra-
tion by the squad’s younger members.

“We gained some tnuch-needed mat time,”
commented Jaworsky.

More recently, the starting squad saw action
at the Pembroke Classic. Mark O’Hair ’04
won his first three matches before falling to
the eventual champion. He dropped his next
two matches, but his performance earned him
sixth place in the 165-pound weight class.

In the 125-pound division, Coman managed
to win his first two matches before dropping
his third. He finished strong, however, win-
ning his last two
matches to earn
sixth place in his
weight class. Six
other team mem-
bers posted victo-
ries.

Still, the ’Cats
are hungry.

“We had some
bright spots,”
noted Coman, “but
overall ‘we could
have done better.”

Patrick Coman
06 placed sixth in

“We didn’t hts weight class
placeasmanyguys at the Pembroke
as we should Classic

have,” agreed cap-

tain Matt Leonard ’06, one of the ’Cats that
made the win column, “but we put up a better .
performance than last season.”

Such statements capture the feelings of the
entire squad. With the potential to signifi-
cantly improve upon past seasons, the ’Cats
are looking to establish themselves as a con-
tender in the Southern Conference.

Their schedule will not aid them in this
quest. They are currently scheduled to com-
pete against powerhouses North Carolina and
Virginia.

The ’Cats must.also face the SoCon compe-
tition, against whom they have not managed a
win in the past three years.

A determined squad with a replenished ros-
ter looks to continue to rebuild in the Bodybar
Classic on Nov. 22. The first home match is
slated for Jan. 9 against Washington and Lee.

Football season ends on dreary note with Georgetown loss

Wildcats lose fourth
straight, finish 3-8

By WALKER SAIK
Staff Writer

The uplifting story that could have
been...wasn’t.

The football team traveled to Georgetown
to close out a 3-8 season on Saturday and
couldn’t do a whole lot to stop the Hoyas en
route to a 30-10 defeat.

Georgetown had over 500 yards of offense,
nearly 400 of it rushing, compared to
Davidson’s more humbling total of 231. It
wasn’t as much the constant barrage of five-
yard runs that killed the ’Cats, though, as it
was the momentum-crushing big gains that
have plagued Davidson all year.

“The big plays we gave up were just what
we did throughout the season,” said head
coach Mike Toop. “Defensively, we just
couldn’t stop the run, and offensively, we had
good field position, [but just couldn’t con-
vert].”

Offensively, it was the same old story.

Poor protection yet again plagued QB Tom
Cook ’06, who finished a very mediocre 16-42
for 210 yards with three interceptions and a
touchdown. In addition, the running game
dried up early, partially leading to a not-so-
great 5-17 on third down conversions.

“We struggled in the passing game,” said
Toop. “We dropped a few balls, and if people
were open, we’d just not connect. Last Satur-
day was no different than the past few.” —

Three of the Georgetown touchdowns were
set up by gains of 40 yards or more, including

athe final touchdown in the fourth quarter on a
68-yard run that served as the dagger in the
heart of the ’Cats.

Davidson tried to hang tough, though, with
an interception by Zack Drozda ’05 and a
fumble recovery by Brendan Dete ’05, giving
the Davidson offense prime field position for
ensuing drives. Although the first drive re-
sulted in a missed 48-yard field goal by Chris
Costello ’04, the latter culminated in
Davidson’s only touchdown of the day on a
28-yard touchdown reception by John Leverett
’05 to make the score 23-10."

But it was all for naught as Georgetown

followed up with their last points of the evening
on the 68-yard run.

“Our biggest problem this year was on the
defensive side of the
ball. We just
couldn’t stop |
people, and we just |
couldn’t move the
ball and score
enough to offset
that,” commented
Toop.

Onthe bright side,
wide receiver

Barrett Johnson ’04 “4 ae ‘
surpassed Mike YOhn Leverett ’05

Kelly ’70 by three scored the team’s
yards to become final TD of the”
Davidson’ s all-time Season against
leader in receiving Georgetown
yards, finishing his
career with 2,157. On the day, he pulled in four
receptions for 41 yards."

Asked if the difficult schedule was a bit
premature for a team that lost such a large
portion of its players from the year before,

_ Toop answered that Davidson football should

be ready for that caliber of play.

“We should be playing this schedule,” said
Toop. “Every other Division I sport at Davidson
is playing a comparable schedule, but we’re a
little more limited based on the teams avail-
able to us.”

Toop continued to explain that while previ- .
ous traditional opponents would not play them
anymore due to lop-sided Davidson victories,
most of the other Division I-AA schools were
located northeast, where Davidson can’t af-
ford travel.

“With a very young team and playing the
schedule we played this year, I don’t know if
[the players] fully realized the level of compe-
tition they were going to play against. They
understand now,” continued Toop.

Injuries also played no small part in
Davidson’s final performance, although Toop
will have none of that excuse.

“You’re never going to hear me use injuries
as anexcuse,” he said. “Everyone in the nation
has those issues. That’s why you hold more
than 22 [on the roster]. :

You just hope that if one guy goes down,
another steps up. And that wasn’t the case this

19 -
‘

year.
