~ By Erin De-k
Staff Writer

Monday
Ga. Southern 77 Davidson 61

Georgia Southern took advantage of a 53-
35 edge on the boards to defeat the Davidson
women’s basketball team, 77-61, Monday.
evening in Hanner Fieldhouse. With the win,
the host Eagles improve to 18-8 overall and
12-5 in the SoCon while the Wildcats fall to
12-14 and 7-10.

Georgia Southern jumped on the boards
right away in its final home game. The Eagles
picked up two offensive boards on their open-
ing possession, marking a trend that would
continue throughout the contest. Midway
through the opening half, GSU used a 14-4
spurt to open up a 24-9 cushion over the
Wildcats.

However, sophomore Emily Callahan
started to heat up from outside the arc and led
a Davidson charge that saw the ‘Cats cut the
deficit to four, 30-26, with 1:28 left in the half.
Callahan scored 11 of Davidson’s 17 points
during that stretch including nailing three
trifectas.

Georgia Southern settled on a 36-30 advan-
tage at the break. The Eagles grabbed 14
offensive rebounds in the first half leading to
13 second-chance points. Also of note, GSU
outscored Davidson at the charity stripe, 10-1,
in the opening stanza.

The Wildcats missed two uncontested layups
at the beginning of the second half that helped
enable Georgia Southern to quickly reestab-
lish a double-digit lead.

Davidson has now lost its last five trips to
Georgia Southern and failed at a chance to
sweep the season series for the first time ever.
Also thanks to the defeat, the Wildcats are
assured of playing in opening day action of the
Southern Conference Tournament for the
fourth consecutive year next week.

Callahan paced Davidson with 17 points,
but all of them came in the first 20 minutes of
action. The forward was 0-for-3 from the floor
in the second half. Junior Courtney Laird
finished with 13 points and four blocks. For
Georgia Southern, four players were in double
figures including Dana Benemon with a team-
best 13 off the bench. Forward Mimi Lindsey
led all players with 10 rebounds.

Saturday
Davidson 70 ETSU 57

After honoring fifth-year seniors Bethany
Schott and Leah Uhernik in the senior day
festivities on Saturday afternoon, the Davidson
Wildcats stormed past East Tennessee State
University, 70-57, to improve their record to
12-13 overall, 7-9 in the conference.

The ’Cats scored the first nine points and
played tough man-to-man defense, even forc-
ing an early technical foul from East
Tennessee’s Misty Copas.

Davidson used their defensive momentum
to fuel their scoring, and a three-pointer from
Ashley Hallsted ’04 at the 14-minute mark put
the ’Cats up 14-2 and elicited a Bucs timeout.
ETSU immediately responded with a three-
point play at the 13:40 mark and, with the help
of sloppy play by Davidson, brought the dif-
ference to within seven.

But the ’Cats held onto the lead with good
ball movement and tough post defense, get-
ting it as high as 13 points.

Davidson had problems boxing out and
getting the important defensive boards, how-
ever, and ETSU used the second and third
chance opportunities to creep back to within
six, 35-29, by the end of the half.

East Tennessee tried to build on their end-
of-the-half momentum by scoring the first
five points in the opening two minutes of the
second half, but the Wildcats regrouped and
went on a 13-2 run over the next five minutes.

Unfortunately, Davidson got into foul
trouble and had seven fouls with 10 minutes
left in the game. Their first-half problem of
poor box-outs continued to plague the ’Cats,
allowing the Bucs to bring the lead back down
to six, 61-55, with 3:53 left in the game.

Callahan stepped up and hit an important
three 15 seconds later, and Davidson entered
the final minute up 68-57. ETSU did not give
up, and with 39 seconds fouled Robyn
Flewelling ’04 to stop the clock.

Flewelling knocked down both free throws,
ending any ETSU hopes of making a come-
back. Callahan led all scorers with 25 points,
and Bethany Schott ’03 added 14 points and 9
boards of her own.

Davidson completes its regular season on

Saturday at College of Charleston.
Sports Information contributed to this report

Indoor track season ends

By WALKER SaIk
Staff Writer

This past weekend the Indoor Southern Con-
ference Championships were held in New
Orleans

The Davidson men put in an effort that
earned them a tie for 7th place with Wofford,
while the women’s team battled for an 8th-
place finish.

In fact, of the 29 performances for the men,
17 were seasonal bests.

Highlighting for the men’s team, Greg Scott
’04 scored in both the mile and the 800-meter
run, and he also earned points in the 4X4 and
DMR.

As he continues to recover from hamstring
troubles, Jimmy Swansbrough ’03 also battled
through the mile, finishing 11th, close behind
Scott, in 4:25.59.

Junior Ben Gaspar pulled off the impressive
3k/Sk double, running the 3k on Friday and 5k
on Saturday. His times of 8:55.67 and 15:59.14
placed him 13th and 16th, respectively.

The Davidson sprint team, many of them
doubling and tripling, nailed a 6th place finish
in the 4X4 in 3:28.43.

Started by Greg Schernecke ’03, the squad
was filled in by Chris Rouisse ’04 and Andrew
Pratt ’04 and anchored by Paul Wyatt ’05.

Overall, Coach Gary Andrew found the

weekend a success. “The indoor season closed

with a strong team effort at the conference
championships,” he said.

Andrew continued, “With additional train-
ing and the return of sevéral injured athletes,
we should be ready to make a strong statement
at the outdoor conference championships.”

For the women’s team, Anna Brew ’05 and
Amanda Yeck ’04 led the way with their
performances in the 3k and high jump, respec-
tively.

Even after a lap counting mistake thatreeked
havoc on her mentally, Brew managed to gut
out a 10th-place performance, crossing the
line in 10:51.72.

Yeck earned points for the team in the high
jump, leaping over the 1.51-meter mark to
finish 6th overall.

Commenting on the lap-counting mistake,
Brew said, “I thought I had one lap left when
they switched it back to four. I was having.a
great race up to that point, but I kind of lost if
after that. It-was disappointing for me.” __.

Liz Gross ’03 also performed well for the
’Cats, setting the pace in her heat of the mile
for much of the race and earning a 14th overall
finish with a time of 5:29.07. _

Brew addressed the meet as a whole. “This
weekend was odd for us,” she said. “There
were a lot of illnesses, so few people had great
races, but indoor track is practice for outdoor
track. Hopefully, this helped us develop focus
for April and outdoor track Conference.”

By Penny Lews
Staff Writer

The Davidson golf team set the tone for a
successful spring season after placing fourth
in the Charleston Southern Spring Kick Off
Tournament.

The Wildcats were led by Tim Dillon ’06,
who placed 11th overall after shooting a two-

day total of 151.

Dillon found himself in 20th place after the
first day of competition, but he came back the
next day with a strong 74, catapulting him
right outside the top ten.

Despite a strong showing, Dillon says he
has room to improve.

“My ball striking wasn’t where I wanted it
to be, but for the first tournament of the year I
played all right,” he said.

Peyton Gallagher ’05 placed 18th overall,
shooting a two-day total 153.

Dan Walker ’05 was only one shot behind at
154.

“T played pretty well, but I really wanted to
play better on the back nine. We were playing
in really cold weather, so I think we played
well,” Walker said.

Rounding out the top finishers for the Wild-
cats was Joe Zimmerman ’05, who shot a 157
for the tournament.

“T didn’t play particularly well, but the
weather made playing conditions really diffi-
cult,” Zimmerman said.

The Wildcats had a very strong showing
even without captain Ben Friedell ’03, who is
recovering from a broken hand.

“We really missed Ben, but even without
him we were able to place really high. When
he returns I think we will be very competi-

tive,” Zimmerman said.

Without the leading scorer, Dillon really
stepped up his game.

“It felt really great to lead the team in
scoring. All my hard work finally paid off. I
was just trying to get the rest of the team to
play better as well,” he said.

Even after a strong showing in the first
tournament of the year, the players feel that
they have yet to reach their potential.

“We could have definitely placed higher.
We have beaten every team in that tournament
before, so we know we could have done bet-
ter,” Walker said.

“We still have a lot to work on, but it was a
really solid start to our season,” Zimmerman
added.

The Davidson golfers have high hopes
for the future.

“T played well in this tournament, but I am
really looking forward to an even better tour-
nament later this season,” Dillon said.

Charleston Southern won the tournament
behind a strong showing by Matt Shelby who
shot a 142.

Shelby was also the individual winner.

Charleston Southern fired a 585 for the
tournament

Following Charleston Southern was Mer-
cer University at 596 and Gardner-Webb at
608.

Davidson posted a 613.

The next tournament on the schedule for
the Wildcats is the Birkdale Collegiate Golf
Tournament.

The Wildcats play host to the event at
Birkdale Golf Course in Huntersville.

“The Birkdale Collegiate should be a really
competitive tournament with a lot of quality
teams,” Walker said.

ai tn Davidson this Sura

Are you considering staying around Qavidson this
summer?

Do you want to help shape the future
learn more about admissio

sider ay |

TH THE FINANCE A

The Summer Ambassador position is a 40hr/wk position
that runs from mid to late May until August 12t+

Salary: 97. 50/hr (plus housing assistance)

INTERESTED?
Submit a resume and two references (no

letters required) to MIKE BRADY in the
Admission Office or by e-mail at
mibrady@davidson.edu by March 17, If you

fevidson or

D PROCESS

have any questions please do not hesitate to
write or call at x2233.

