" {from page1 |

same house. We are one family, one people, one
house.” :

Heconcluded the speech, saying, “Walk with
the wind. Let the spirit of history be your guide.”

At this point he opened the floor to questions
from the audience. Trenita Brookshire ’05 asked
Lewis about the affirmative action case involv-
ing the University of Michigan currently before
the Supreme Court. Lewis said he supports the
University of Michigan, and that over 100 of his
colleagues on the Hill have filed briefs support-
ing Michigan, as have large corporations like
Coca-Cola based in his district. “We live in a
diverse society,” he added. “Schools, universi-
ties, board rooms” need to reflect the diversity
in America.

Marc Vinson’05
asked next about
the. war, saying,
“The house is shak-
ing.” Lewis an-
swered, “As citi-
zens, not just citi-
zens of America,
but citizens of the
world, we have to
do everything in
our power to stop
this madness.”

Atthis, the crowded Tyler-Tallman Hall burst
into applause before Lewis continued, “We
have to use the technology. [In the 1960s] we
had our bodies, our marching feet.” Now, pro-
testers have other ways to become involved.
“We don’t need to be quiet, we need to make a
little noise,” he said, his voice thundering.

President Vagt asked a question. Speaking to
the racially charged issues of the Georgia flag
referendum, the University of Michigan case,
and the debate over a Richmond statue, Vagt
asked, “We ought to be pushing forward, and
now we’re digging our heels in so we don’t go
backwards. When change came before, it came
because our leaders would listen, it came par-
tially from Washington...Can we look to that

guide.”

call it the house of the world. We all live in the

“Walk with the wind. Let the
spirit of history be your

- Rep. John Lewis

Lewis p riswering, “I’m not so
sure that if the Civil Rights Act, the Voting

Rights Act, were put before this Congress, that:

it would pass.

“We need leaders that are prepared to go with
their heart, go with their soul.”

Damion White ’05 raised the issue of war
again, asking if President Bush’s ignoring of
massive protests wasn’t “a blow to our democ-
racy.” A town member too raised the question
of a national draft.

Lewis replied that “Dr. King used to say,
‘There is nothing more powerful than deter-
mined people.’” He said that prayer was a good
and powerful tool, but it was also necessary to
pick up one’s feet and get moving.

Lewis said he opposes the war and he op-
poses the draft,
but joined with
his fellow House
Waysand Means
Committee
member Charlie
Rangel of New
York in calling
for a draft to
make a political
point. “The ques-
tion of sacrifices
comes in,” he said, adding he hoped it didn’t
come to that.

Sean Brooks ’04 asked about the willingness
of many Americans to exchange civil liberties
for security in the post-Sept. 11 world.

“J don’t think there is any room for that in our
society,” Lewis said. “When they’ re taken, they
aren’t given back. We don’t want to live in a
police state, we want to live in America. We
don’t want to go down that road.”

After a stirring hour, Representative Lewis
concluded his remarks and received a long,
standing ovation from the crowd. He also con-
cluded a day at Davidson that offered a rare,
first-hand account of one of the defining times
in America’s history and insight into our world
today.

Nobel, from page 1

ate Research for his senior thesis on surface-
absorbed helium at cryogenic temperatures.

Cornell then received his Ph.D. from the
Massachusetts Institute for Technology. His
innovative research has been recognized by a
number of awards, including the 2001 Nobel
Prize in Physics he shares with Carl Wieman
and Wolfgang Ketterle.

Dr. Tim Gfroerer, professor of physics at
Davidson, has worked with Cornell personally
and describes him as “‘an extremely gifted pub-
lic speaker.” Gfroerer attributes Cornell’s abili-
ties to his persona outside of the media. “For
such an accomplished scientist, Eric is surpris-
ingly down-to-earth in person and [he] can be
quite funny.

“He is a creative thinker and a risk taker, but
his scientific decisions are guided by a tremen-
dous reservoir of knowledge and understand-
ing. Hence, he has an uncanny ability to take the
right risks.”

Those risks enabled Cornell and his research-
ers to observe the first Bose-Einstein conden-
sate (BEC) in a dilute gas. According to
Gfroerer, Cornell’s work has many implica-
tions. “These BECs facilitate a whole new class
of experiments that are just beginning to be
realized. They provide a unique testing ground
for exploring the fascinating world of quantum
mechanics.”

Cornell’s presentation will take place at 7:30
p.m. in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room of the
Alvarez College Union. The event is free and
open to the public.

off-Campus Housing

Interested in Applying for Off-Campus Permission for 2003-20047?

Please attend the MANDATORY Off-Campus Housing Meeting

(Any students desiring Off-Campus permission must attend this meeting).

Thursday, March 13" — 7:00 pm
Tyler-Tallman Hall in the Sloan Music Center

Residence Life Office
Phone: 894-2188 Fax: 894-2664

http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/lottery.html

