J ust another

By Steve KALIsKI
Staff Writer

The lure of a John Grisham adaptation must
be too strong for anyone in Hollywood to re-
sist. “Runaway Jury,” the scribe’s latest legal
melodrama to hit the screen, has one of the most
impressive casts ever assembled in an ordinary
film, and I’m not even talking about the main
Stars.

Granted, John Cusack, Gene Hackman, and
Dustin Hoffman are no B-grade headliners, but
it’s the almost endless barrage of familiar faces
in supporting roles that will make this movie
the supreme power of the “six degrees of sepa-

Gene Hackman stars in ‘Jury’

ration” game. You will probably recognize
about 20 character actors in significant roles
here, and you will definitely spend much of
your viewing experience trying to figure out
where you’ ve seen them before.

This vague sense of familiarity is the prob-
lem with “Runaway Jury.” It unfolds in sucha
frantically busy two hours of overwrought
plotting that nothing tangible ever has achance
to sink in, except for the fact that the whole
mess is 100 percent unbelievable. If one-tenth

of what this movie depicts about our law sys- .

tem is true, then the judicial branch should se-
riously consider letting Boy Scouts handle our
trials in the future.

Before devolving into its far-fetched con-
trivances, the film begins with a frightening
scene of office violence. A disgruntled worker
goes on a murderous rampage through his of-
fice, killing a big shot stockbroker (Dylan
McDermott). Two years later, the victim’ s wife

es

Grish

I
‘4

z ee fs .
vi ee

am movie
embarks on an elaborate lawsuit against the
manufacturers of the killer’s weapon, hoping
that a victory would signal a fatal wound to
firearm availability in the United States.

Enter the scumbag lawyers and their sleazy
interests. Given the implications of the case,
both sides want to secure the best jury possible
for their desired outcome. The defense hires
the sketchy Rankin Fitch (Hackman) to tamper
with jury selection and to scare the chosen
jurors into mindless cooperation. The prosecu-
tion (led by Hoffman) wants to play by the rules
but sees no legitimate way to keep pace with
Fitch’s subversive schemes.

In the middle of all this is Nicholas Easter
(Cusack), aconniving video game sales-
man who squeezes his way onto the jury
so that he and his girlfriend (Rachel
Weisz) can manipulate/both sides for
maximum profit. Or does he have ulte-
rior motives? Or do we really care?

It’s easy to see why this is one of
Grisham’s most popular novels; its ear-
nest moral and potentially searing legal
commentary would probably translate
well to the escapist page. But under the
slickly vacant direction of Gary Fleder
(“Kiss the Girls,” “Don’t Say a Word”),
“Runaway Jury” gets so caught up inits
twisty plot that it never pays due respect
to the meaty gun control issues it pre-
tends to address.

On screen the story is just a bloated
homage to its source material. Weighed down
by mixed motivations and ridiculous premises,
“Jury” fails in creating a high stakes, danger-
ous sense of drama.

Cusack and Weisz remain charming enig-
mas for most of their performances, and Hack-
man does his typically evil impersonation of
an intimidating chain smoker.

Only Hoffman’s conflicted Wendell Rohr
strikes an emotional chord. Torn between his
integrity and a compulsion to win the case by
whatever Machiavellian means necessary,
Rohr represents that isolated lawyer of nobil-
ity that we have come to love from Grisham’s
stories.

Unfortunately, “Runaway Jury” loses
Hoffman amidst its overwhelming swarm of

heavily populated action. But, hey, if second- -

tier actors like Bill Nunn, Bruce McGill, Nick
Searcy and Jeremy Piven are your cup of tea,
then go for it.

e| phia Center \

Education at Work

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
NovEMBER 5, 2003

.

Super Furry Animals have
super-short attention spans

By Anpy HEsTon
Staff Writer

We live in an age unlike any other. We live
in the age of Attention Deficit Disorder. What
began on the margins is now a foundation of
pop culture. It’s everywhere. It is only through
a superhuman effort that I am able to maintain
any sort of focus for long enough to write this
review.

I begin this way because if any band is able
to represent our twenty-first century cultural
ADD, it is the Super Furry Animals. Listening
to their latest album, “Phantom Power’, is like
being swept away by an avalanche of musical
cross-references. As I was listening my mind
ricocheted from link to link, influence to in-
fluence: “Sweetheart of the Rodeo” meets

. “Dark Side of the Moon,” the sun-kissed Cali-

fornia bliss-pop of the Beach Boys, the dis-
torted T. Rex chunky guitar of glam rock
(Bowie glam rock, not PiKA glam rock), the
elaborately arranged Nick Drake-on-Bryter-
Later instrumentals, Elvis Costello-style
pseudo-torch ballads, etc, etc, etc, etc, etc.

“Phantom Power” is nothing if not a scat-
tered listen. It’s as if the Super Furry Animals
are intent on cramming every idea they’ ve ever
had, every record they’ ve ever listened to, and
every section of their favorite music store into
one 52-minute roller coaster ride of an album.
Songs start off one way and quickly abandon
their logical path of development, bridges
appear out of nowhere, and the whole thing is
pretty much all over the place.

It’s almost like the Super Furry Animals
aren’t sure what kind of band they want to be:
they have some consistent lyrical themes, par-
ticularly cutesy animals and obscure references
to the Iraqi war (“Ninja jihad/ Suck my Oil--
huh?) but as far as any musical cohesion, it’s
hard to believe the same band is behind “Lib-
erty Belle” and “Sex War and Robots.”

Given such stylistic genre hopping, it’s rather
difficult to find any sort of cohesive sound to

sede
Book 11 people, get 12th trip
free. Visit the official website |
for Spring Break ‘04.
‘The best deals to the
hottest destinations.
Group discounts for 6+
www.springbreakdiscounts.com —
or 800-838-8202

the album. To be honest, I’m still working on
it myself. At the end of the day, it’s not about
how many names are dropped; it’s the effect of
the album on you. And while my jury’s still
somewhat out on this album as a whole, I like
the way things are going.

The overall effect is like entering an alter-
nate universe: Super Furry Animal-land. It’s
bizarre, and it’s disorienting, and it’s surreal,
but like the stylized cartoons that make up the
album’s liner notes, it’s also benign and invit-
ing, and whatever craziness ends up happen-
ing, you know you’ll have fun. It’s like a mu-
sical funhouse: there seems to be no frame of
reference, nothing to cozy yourself up to, but
then you realize it’s all just smoke and mirrors.
As initially meandering and unfocused as some
of these songs seem, they’re such nice and cute
little journeys that you don’t mind at all not
knowing where the Furries are leading you.

“Phantom Power’ is far from perfect, though
I’m far from finished listening to it. This is an
album you can listen toa million times and still
have something come out from nowhere to
surprise you. Even on the rather lame tracks
there’s acouple cool little drum fills, electronic
noises and overdubbed melodies.

