DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 2003

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 14

State of the Union in the Union

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

More than 100 students gathered in front of Union televisions to
watch President Bush’s State of the Union address last night.

Students offer mixed reactions
to Bush’s State of the Union

By BRANDON CARROEL & AMEE PATEL
News Editors

Hundreds of students from across the cam-
pus watched President Bush’s State of the
Union address to Congress last night, many of
whom gathered in the 900 Room of the College
Union. The large turnout consisted of students
concerned and curious about the issues. Indeed,
just as the floor of Congress remained-divided
during the State of the Union, the students
filling the 900 Room reflected all points on the
political spectrum.

The address, which began with economic
policies, pushed the tax cuts that Bush proposed
earlier this month:in Chicago. “Our first goal is
clear,” Bush said, ““we must have an economy
that grows fast enough to employ every man
and woman who seeks a job.” Bust went on to
spell out other domestic priorities, including
health care reform and environmental issues,
such as preserving the forests of the United
States and proposing over a billion dollars to
promote “clean, hydrogen-powered automo-
biles.” The environmental measures drew afew

chuckles from skeptics of Bush’s environmen-
tal record.

Bush also mentioned millions in federal
money for mentors of junior high students,
raised the profile of his faith-based initiatives,
and reiterated his commitment to privatizing
Social Security in some form.

The most anticipated part of the speech was
Bush’s stance on foreign policy. Initially dwell-
ing on increasing aid to combat AIDS in Africa,
he soon turned to the current tensions in the
world: Iran, North Korea, and Iraq, which con-
stitute the “Axis of Evil” that Bush posited in
last year’s State of the Union address. The
foreign policy topics drew by far the widest and
largest responses from the observers.

Of Iran, Bush said that it the government
“represses its people, pursues weapons of mass
destruction, and supports terror.” Speaking to
North Korea, Bush accused the Communist
nation of attempting to blackmail the world for
increased concessions with its ill-gotten nuclear

see Address, page 3

Historically black fraternity
expected on Court this year

By CAROLINE K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

There’s a new frat in town.

Davidson’s first historically black Greek or-
ganization is expected to be chartered and have
brothers on campus by the end of this semester.

Late last semester, the NPHC Expansion

Committee recommended to President Vagt

that Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. be invited
to colonize at Davidson. Vagt extended an
invitation to the national organization in De-
cember, and the chartering process is currently
underway.

According to Emest Jeffries, Assistant Dean
of Student Life, 12 men have started the appli-
cation process for membership in the frater-
nity—two first-year students, eight sophomores
and two juniors. Two of the students are
internationals, one is Latino, and the rest are
black.

This mix is fulfilling a goal of historically
black fraternities. Robert Norfleet, who chaired
the expansion: committee said, “One of the
things that’s most exciting is that these fraterni-
ties have much more diverse demographics
than historically white organizations.”

“There’s definitely a lack of African- Ameni-
can male role models on this campus,” said
Jeffries. “What an organization like Alpha Phi
Alpha does is provide an automatic connection
to a network of a lot of men who have a lot to
offer.”

Jeffries continued, “This will broaden social

opportunities on this campus—this kind of or- :

ganization can do nothing but help Davidson.
First, it shows diversity in the Greek letter
organizations, and, second, I think it will be
something positive in trying to recruit African-
American students. Some students look at
schools from the point of view of “Can I have
that experience?’”

Frankie Jones ’05 is one student who wants
that experience. He agrees, “Though open to all
male students, we hope that the fraternity will
helpin Davidson’s minority recruitment as well
as help contribute tqacreate a more diverse

Parking crunch not as bad as some think

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele
A view of student parking

spaces, filled to capacity.

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

A good parking spot is always a prized pos-
session, and now finding accessible parking on
campus has become increasingly difficult this
semester.

One reason for this strain has been the return

 ofstudents studying abroad to campus. Accord-

ing to the Registrar’s Office, 1,599 students
were registered in classes last semester. This
semester, the number has jumped to 1,667.
Along with these new students have come their
cars. The result has been longer searches for
empty spots through Belk, West and satellite
parking lots.

However, Director of Public ‘Safety Sam
McKelvey, claims parking is no greater a prob-
lem this semester as it was in the last. “We are
fortunate to have 1,900 parking spots available
and only 1,600-1,700 vehicles each day. Al-
though there are a few more cars from students
bringing vehicles second semester, there has
been no significant change.”

Nevertheless, a quick glance towards West
parking lots will indicate that something has

definitely changed. On any given day, cars can -

be seen all the way to the back of satellite
parking.

While over one thousand decals were issued
last semester, only ninety have been issued this
semester. However, some students who had
registered their vehicles in the fall did not bring
their cars until now. This trend accounts for part
of an explanation to the parking dilemma.

Another growing concern that plays into
parking on campus has been fears of vehicle
safety in the satellite parking lot. Towards the
end of September and the beginning of October
of last year, 14 vehicles were broken into while
parked there.

According to McKelvey, no one has been
charged with the break-ins. He said, ““A couple
of folks in town are still being investigated by
Davidson town police. The town has charged

see Parking, page 2

Alpha at a Glance

AGA

Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity,
Inc. is the oldest historically
black fraternity in America.

Founded on Dec. 4, 1906 by
seven Cornell University stu-
dents, the organization pro-
motes service, leadership and
scholarship.

IN IO

atmosphere on this campus.

“T personally felt that Alpha Phi Alpha was
the best fit for Davidson,” said Jason Scott
’04. “I found that their ideals such as service,
scholarship, and leadership are consistent with
the ideals that Davidson emphasizes.”

“T’m excited,” said Jeffries, “because I have
no doubt in my mind that, with the caliber of
students we have, this will become a premier
chapter in the national organization—quickly.”

Last fall, Alpha Phi Alpha and Phi Beta
Sigma representatives visited Davidson and
gave presentations about their organizations.

“I was gratified to see all the people. who
turned out [for the two public forums],” said
Norfleet. “The student responses were very
helpful and reinforced the sense of the commit-
tee about which fraternity was the best fit for
Davidson.

“We were relieved by the ease of the choice.”

INSIDE THIS WEEK

News 1-4
From Ray Charles to Dave
Matthews, a look back at College

concerts. Page 3.

Arts & Living 5-6
Want to get away? Check out our
new recreation column. Page 5.

Perspectives 7-8
Is the Bush tax cut really good for
America? Page 8.

Sports 9-12
Emily Callahan is emerging as a star
for women’s hoops. Page 12.

