THE DAVIDSONIAN

-NEws

Construction moves to phase three

Students could take exams
in new wing next week if
inspection passes.

By SARAH RoBINSON
Staff Writer

With another semester of construction,
Davidson students can start to see the end of the
tunnel for the on-going construction on the
main part of. campus.

Now, if county inspectors are able to pass
north wing, students may even be able to take
éxams in the newly renovated part of Chambers
next week.

Phase two of the renovation of Chambers
concermed the north wing. Next semester, the
construction will move to phase three, the reno-
vation of the south wing. Phase three will cause
complications for the administration, most of
whom will be moved to temporary locations
around campus.

This phase will last through the rest of the
school year and summer and will be completed
by the time the students return.

Phase four will start at the end of the spring
semester, overlapping with phase three. Phase
four renovates the center of Chambers, includ-
ing Perkins Auditorium, and the courtyard be-
tween Little Library and the east wing.

For students familiar with Perkins, they can
look forward to the opening of the windows that
line the top of the dome. Contractors are trying
to design a new ceiling plan that will allow the
dome to be seen within the room without dam-
aging the acoustics.

As the last part of construction, the courtyard
will be redesigned to open the space, which
includes the removal of planters and addition of
grassy areas, and compliment the new back
entrance of Chambers.

David Holthouser, Director of the Physical
Plant, sees the construction as a positive reflec-

These doors will soon open to
the new north wing of Chambers.

tion of the Davidson population. “Faculty, staff,
and students have been very patient,” he said. -

For administrative offices, Academic Affairs
will be publishing an At-a-Glance guide, in-
structing everyone where faculty and adminis-

- trative offices are moving.

For students needing to see the Registrar,
Academic Affairs and the Dean of Students
Office will bé housed in the north basement of
Chambers to allow students easy access to those
offices.

After Chambers, major construction will halt
for a few years, as the focus of the capital
campaign will move to raising money for pro-
fessorships, Financial Aid, and other non-con-
struction areas. Medium-sized construction
projects will continue on Patterson Court, with
the goal of all houses being completed in the
next two years. Also, athletic facilities will
continue to be renovated.

After approximately five years, construction
plans turn towards the renovation of
Cunningham Fine Arts, Little Library, Martin
Science Building, and Vail Commons.

On the new renovations, Holthouser said,
“The college has made a tremendous commit-
ment to resources for faculty, staff, and stu-
dents, and to keeping with the character of
campus.”

Court Selection, from page 1
who sign up for self-select.” She said, “It will
slightly decrease the number that Connor and
Warner receive,” but leave numbers for Turner
and CoHo the same.

Yet, after many houses complained about the
unfair effects of the new percentages, several
houses made concessions to equalize the num-
bers.

President of Rusk Courtney Ward ’04 said,
“Both Connor and Warner Hall were kind
enough to give Rusk some of their girls, mean-
ing that now our three houses will each receive
about the same number of freshmen in January.
And I believe that number is around 26 or 27.”

The number of switches for each house will
remain as outlined in the original plan, giving
Rusk, Connor and Warner Hall will receive five
spots. Turner and CoHo will be allowed 27 and

36 switches into their houses, respectively.

Two years ago, complaints about the vastly
unequal house memberships led to the forma-
tion of a task force committee that formulated
the plan to limit switches between houses and to
decrease the number of girls gaining member-
ship to larger houses.

Even with the new percentages, some are still
concerned about the limited number of switches.

President of Turner Eating House Brynn
Welch ’05 asserted the need for limited switches
not only to equalize house membership but also
on a practical basis, since the houses need to
know approximate member counts.

She said, “When the summer comes, you
need to be able to plan the semester.”

Blackey said, “In the best case scenario, the
new switching policy wen’t be-a problem, and
people will be happy in their houses.”

By Baik McGraw

Staff Writer

The Student Government deferred making a
decision about whether a Union Board referen-
dum to consolidate the two vice-presidents of
the Union Board passed. At its meeting last
Thursday, the SGA decided to take the matter to
its Senate Court, due to confusing wording in
the campus-wide referendum.

The referendum, asking if students approved
of the changes, was sent out electronically be-
fore Thanksgiving. According to Sims Hill ’06,
533 students voted, of which 308 approved of
the changes while 99 did not. A third choice
now presents a problem. .

Under SGA bylaws, 2/3 of votes are needed
to pass a referendum. The confusion was over
the third choice, which stated, “I choose to cast
no vote,” which 126 students selected. Includ-
ing the third choice in the vote total would cause
the referendum to fail. If it does not count as a
vote, the referendum would pass.

SGA President Charles Washington’’04 sug-
gested taking the matter to the Senate Court,
which interprets SGA bylaws, to see if “I choose

_ to cast no vote” counts in the vote total. “We

have a Senate Court, and I don’t think we’ve
used it until now,” Washington said.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2003 3

Union Board referendum
results prove inconclusive,
efforts to promote school
spirit continues

SGA looks to keep up school spirit

In keeping with its goal of improving school
spirit, the SGA decided to charter a bus to the
Davidson’s men’s basketball game against
UNC-Charlotte on December 12. The bus
holds 57 students, who would pay a small fee for
the bus and also receive a ticket to the game.
There was some concern over costs if the bus
did not fill up, since the game is on reading day.

Some senators also suggested the SGA could
focus on improving school spirit in areas other
than men’s basketball. Christina Evans ’06
suggested SGA should “try to think of project
that would benefit the entire community.” The
majority of senators voted to keep the tradition
of chartering the bus for the UNCC game.

In other business, Washington announced
that the Educational Policy Committee (EPC)
decided that it would not yet change the double
majors system. The EPC “decided they really
didn’t want to get rid of [double majors], but
improve the current system,” Washington said.

Some of the suggestions by the EPC were to
have a distinct form to fill out for students who
choose two majors, better advice on double-
majoring, and limiting the second major to 11
courses. The EPC meets again in January,
during which the double-majors issue will be
discussed again.

AIRPORT SHUTTLE

Getting outa town for the Holidays?
Don't give the cabman your Christmas money.
Cabs to the Charlotte Airport average $50-$60
You can’t beat our prices to get you to the airport.

Davidson to Charlotte/Douglas Airport $36
Davidson to Greensboro Airport $94

%15 gratuity for the driver will be added to each trip

| Book early to reserve your spot.
Oh, yeah, we will be glad to pick you up on your return.
Call 704-894-0796 for reservations.

Academic Crec

Biphia. Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!
Financial Aid applies and.
Cac ts transfer!

