78, the firs fesaale eiitor of The Davidsonian, will read tromiier work as
an investigative journalist and author tonight in the 900 Room at 7: 30 p.m. She will also present
the college’ s annual Charles B. Lloyd and R. Windley Hall awards for student writing.

Debate on Latin America Politics will feature Political Science Professors
Dr. Russell Crandall, Professor of Political Science at Davidson College and Dr. Evelyne
_ Huber, Professor of Political Science at UNC Chapel Hill and Director of the Institute of Latin
American Studies will hold a discussion of current events on Latin America on Thursday in the
900 Room at 8 p.m. The debate will include the Argentine crisis and the roles of the IMF and
international financial institutions.

os AMIPUS POLICE DIL© PER

2/24/03 Larceny Eating house
Unknown person removed a television from an eating house without permission. Total
value of loss is estimated at $200.

3/01/03 Students on Roof Vail Commons
Four students were caught on the roof of Vail Commons. The building is being checked
for damage.

Residence Hall _
Identified students were notified twice that the noise level coming from their apartment
was not acceptable.

3/14/03 Disturbance/Loud Noise

3/15/03 Smell of Marijuana Residence Hall
Known students were identified as having the smell of marijuana emitting from their
room. :

3/16/03 Damage to Property Patterson Ct. Parking Area

Unknown person damaged the electric antennae on student’s vehicle. Estimated damage
is approximately $200.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously at x2178.

_TO THE CLASS OF 2003

You are invited to attend

“Fiscal Fitness”
A Seminar for Davidson Seniors .

Helping You Manage Your Money
by Professor Ben Baker and President Bobby Vagt

Saturday, March 29, 2003
9:00 am to 4:00 pm
Thurman Room in the Martin Chemistry Building

Registration is required.
You must register to attend — space is limited.
To register, email Wendy Roberts.

@ Budgeting — How far will that salary really go?

@ Simple tax return preparation — How bad is the bite?

® The importance of wills — You can’t take it with you,
but who will get it?

@ Purchasing a home vs. renting

@ General banking, loans, etc.

@ Investing — strategies and vehicles

@ Buying acar (... Volvo vs. Maserati)

® Life insurance

hesitant to speak out.”

Still others felt this lack of freedom played no
part in the Iraqi students cry against American
intervention.

Geghman said, “I came to the conclusion that
even if they had freedom of speech, criticizing
their government is not in the forefront of their
minds. The most imminent danger to their
livelihood is the United States. The grievances
these students may have otherwise felt toward
their government are muted by their common

enemy, even before Saddam Hussein has achance

to silence them.”

After questions from the Davidson students on
changes the Iraqi people would like to see in their
government were continuously ignored, one Iraqi
student gave a response that hit home for several
in the 900 Room.

“After the tragedy of 9/11 you stopped
criticizing your government,” she said. “The same
thing is true for us right now. We’re focused on
stopping a war, surviving.”

Zogby set the gravity of the situation by asking
how many students from both ends had family in
the military. With more hands raised in Baghdad
than in Davidson, the political discourse began.

A male student from Baghdad best
encompassed the emotions of his peers when he
said, “We are waiting for American troops to
invade our country. So it feels like we have a gun
planted in the back of our heads. It’s not a good
feeling.” Another student described life in Iraq as
“total chaos.”

However, without expecting too much
sympathy from their American counterparts, the
students of Baghdad emphasized the sovereignty
of their state.

U

they ee oo ele a what me oh ;
oppose the goverment are as a matter of policy
- arrested, tortured and even killed,” he said. “In ~
“tpt DoainIOn | Min sve sowe have gle0:beca

toe Hussein. He said, “Your
leader has spent millions of dollars to build up
biological and chemical weapons. He has
attempted genocide on the Kurds and we are
horrified.

Although the Baghdad students insisted they
were comfortable with their regime, Pitts felt the
dialogue with students living in freedom touched
many of those in Baghdad. He said, “The
Davidson community engendered a dialogue on
democracy in a country that has no real freedom
of speech. That is quite an accomplishment.”

While Zogby admitted dialogue was
constricted by the freedom to speak one’s mind,
he felt it was not all in vain. “Even with those
limits, I think most Davidson kids came out
feeling like they learned something,” said Zogby.
“1 felt that there were sparks of understanding that
jumped the gap between us.”

Concrete answers were not expected from the
hour-long satellite link. However, Zogby believes
aconnection was reached between Baghdad and
Davidson. “Who would have thought that
American students and students from Baghdad
would laugh together?”

Fittingly, Zogby finished the discussion by
asking how many of the students from Baghdad
had lost loved ones to war or to sanctions. Within
seconds, all the hands in Baghdad raised. Whether
or not they believed war would help or hurt the
faces on the television screen, each student
departed with a clearer image of the faces and
people that make up Iraq.

And as our nation embarks on a war, Davidson
students are sure to-rremember the faces of the
Iraqi students with whom they were in contact,
even for such a short time. We cannot help but
worry about their safety in the perilous times to

ee

f s

phia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic:credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia! —
Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

www-philactr-edu

come.

aug. 7e5. 7300

