Theater Review

Student actors deliver in ice- -Skating comedy Perfect Six

By CANNON HoDGE
Special Contributor

I suppose that the most difficult aspect of my
character was that I haven’t acted before and
learning how to become a character was chal-
lenging - especially because my character was
such an unhinged ice-princess who was psy-
chotically obsessed with skating. - Elizabeth
Sykes

This past weekend five Davidson students
and one professional actress performed Mark
Eisman’s new play, Perfect Six. Because the
play is a work-in-progress, the actors were

given a mere three weeks to prepare their scripts
and rehearse as a group; Eisman, in fact, contin-
ued to change lines during the final week of
rehearsal. The play, presented as a workshop
premier, is a masterpiece in the making that

farcically exposes the volatile world of com- °

petitive figure skating.

The actors were convincing, passionate, hi-
larious and at times scary. Of course, there is the
effeminate male skater, Chandlee Caldwell ‘03,
who feels that he must prove his masculinity to
his unhinged partner, Elizabeth Sykes ‘04, who

claims thathe ‘throws like a girl’; andthe sunny,
Southern replacement partner, Rebecca
Ragland ‘03, who, unfortunately, is a tad too

CUMMIN' ATTRACTIONS

Final Destination 2 fails to frighten

Final Destination 2, the sequel to the surprise
2000 horror hit, mistakenly uses excessive vio-
lence and gruesome death scenes to extort fear
from audiences, and fails miserably. What re-
sults is a film that is (literally) laughable.

One year ago, in the events chronicled in the
original film, Flight | 80 exploded minutes after
take off, killing all those aboard, including 40
members of aclass going to France for vacation.
Minutes before the take off, Alex Browning
envisioned the crash and inva panic, rushed off
the plane, taking several friends and one faculty
member off the plane as they attempted to
secure him. The plane, departing without them,
exploded as the students and Alex watch in
horror. Subsequently, Death, the Grim Reaper

himself, began to attack and kill, one by one,
those who were supposed to die in that plane
crash and didn’t, thus altering Death’s plan. (If
you don’t remember this, the sequel’s opening
scene quickly recollects the plot of the original
film). But as the first film offered audiences a
unique horror experience as the survivors try
unsuccessfully to outrun Death/Fate, a killer
they can’t see, the sequel tries to offer a clean
and easy solution to avoiding Death’s design.

' This time around, Kimberly (AJ Cook), a

high school student, begins a road trip with _

three friends, headed for Daytona Beach for
spring break. However, as Kimberly waits on
the onramp to merge into the oncoming traffic,
she envisions a truck causing a major car pileup,
in which she, her friends, and several other
strangers are going to die tragically. In panic,
she blocks the line attempting to merge, saving
numerous lives, including her own as she
watches the accident happen before her eyes,
exactly as she envisioned it. Subsequently,

Director: David R. Ellis

[Written by:, Jeffrey. Reddick, J.
Mackye Gruber, Eric Bress

Starring: Ali Larter, A. J. Cook

Running Time: 100 minutes .

Rating: 1.5 out of 4

afraid Death will hunt down the survives of the
accident, Kimberly, with the aid of Clear Rivers
(Ali Larter), the only remaining survivor of
Flight 180, seeks outa plan to overcome Death’s
vengeance and protect the fellow survivors of
the accident. Final Destination 2, returns to the
trap set by so many bad horror and slasher films
of the recent past, relying on on-screen violence
in a fleeting attempt to create fear in the audi-
ence.

The most successful moments of the film
occur in the opening sequence as the film de-
picts the tragic crash and the death of Kimberly
and her friends among others, only to blind the
audience with a white light, finding us back on
the on ramp, just moments before the car crash.
But after an exciting and engrossing opening
sequence, the film fails quickly. As the survi-
vors of the accident begin to fall victim to the
death they avoided on the road, the deaths
become more elaborate, more laughable, and
more unbelievable.

For example, Evan, a young wild kid, is
making some dinner for himself on the stove.
On the side of the nearby fridge are the magnetic
letter spelling out Hey E. While distracted, the

H falls, leaving E-Y-E, eye. Moments later, a

ladder falls upon him, with one leg striking and
crushing his eye. The subsequent death scenes
are even more graphic and even mote idiotic.
But perhaps the fault of the movie isn’t its
excess violence and stupid death scene, but
rather the characters themselves.

Poorly written, the fellow survivors are an-
noying, stereotypical characters, the kind that
always seem to die in horror films. Besides
Kimberly, none of the characters are developed
to the point of eliciting sympathy from the
audience. If such sympathy had been estab-
lished, the movie might have been more enjoy-
able and more frightening.

tall. The director Steve Umberger and a skating
consultant successfully transformed ice skating
performances onto the theater stage. Ragland
and Sykes stunned audiences’ with their fiery
lifts and throws. Skating moves, such as the
‘death spin’, were difficult to fully understand
yet only contributed to the play’s hilarity. Ac-

_cording to Sykes, the moves were not terribly

difficult. Eisman was impressed with the ac-
tors’ ability to learn the ‘skating’ choreography
and was especially pleased with Ragland’s
strength and proficiency.

Bridged to the skating plot is the intriguing
love affair between Annie Wadman (‘06) and
James Flieder (03). Wadman plays Caldwell’s
sister who, while working as a motel house-
keeper and junior college pre-med, falls in love
with and loses her virginity to a Southern motel
transient (Flieder). Flieder’s character is the
Phillip Morris heir and is obsessively addicted
to cigarettes. His character is especially poi-
gnant amid Davidson’s North Carolinian audi-
ence. Wadman connects the entire plot through
her relationship with Sykes’ mother ( profes-

sional actress Claudia Covington) and history

with ice skating. Wadman, a freshman, is sur-
prisingly confident on stage and succeeds as the
play’s center character.

Both Sykes and Wadman were new to

Davidson’s acting stage. During an interview,
Sykes admitted that she originally thought that
she would be an art major; however, after taking
a theater 101 course, her decision of major
turned to theater. Sykes was the set designer and
costume designer for The Memory of Water and
will be the assistant stage manager and master
electrician for Angels in America, Part I: Mil-
lennium Approaches. Although new to the
Davidson stage, Wadman acted throughouthigh
school. The other actors starred in performances
such as The Memory of Water and Cabaret.

Would I ever wear a unitard again? Sadly,
no... if |were asked to wear one for a character
in performance, perhaps. But by requests from
friends, no. - Liz Sykes on her costume for
“Perfect Six”

I still am wondering where Liz Sykes found
the courage to dance across a stage, in front of
an audience of family, strangers and friends,
while wearing.a bright purple unitard. All ac-
tresses must be ebullient and self-confident
(and, after witnessing many of Liz’s apartment
Rent performances, I know that she possesses
bothcharacteristics), as well as willing to ‘skate’
across an imaginary ice rink while pretending to
be fanatically crazy.

Return of Sardonic Ilrreverence

Cool

Wacko Jacko interview...King of Pop
turned formerly- -ethnic villain du jour. Not quite
journalism, which
made it frightening
and exhilarating all at
once. Watching MJ
feed his baby: worse
than eating horse anus
on Fear Factor.

Tracy Morgan
and Horatio
Sanz...Make SNL

worth watching. Tracy and Horatio on why we
should legalize drugs: “They use hemp for
making rope.” Yes, they do.

Glam Rock... Year after year, the Court’s
most fun party. Cheers to PiKA, unceiling and
all.

Davidson basketball... Kicking butt on live
television. WOO-HOO!

Oscar nominations...Best nominations:
Selma Hayek (Frida), Diane Lane (Unfaithful),
and Julianne Moore (Far from Heaven) for best
actress. They’ re all great, but I’d go with Lane.
Also, Spirited Away for animated feature.

Not Cool

Unprotected sex, jean shorts, your mug shot
on the local news...Never have been and
probably never will be cool.

J.Lo and LL...He represents Queens; she
was raised out in Brooklyn. Nope. She’s still,
she’s still Jenny from the Bronx. A cross-
borough catastrophe. Poor Jenny, walking
down the street in
tears, Louis V bags on
every limb. Really, re-
ally lame.

Dave...At forty
bucks a ticket, he bet-
ter be naked.

Joe Millionaire:
NOTHING happened
on this week’s epi-
sode. Almost makes
me want to boycott the finale. Almost.

Oscar nominations...Worst nomination:
The Lord of the Rings: the Two Towers for
best picture.

Biggest oversights: Y Tu Mama También,
Far from Heaven, 13 Conversations About
One Thing for best picture; the supporting
performances of Alfred Molina in Frida and
Kim Staunton in Changing Lanes; Harry
Potter and the Chamber of Secrets for visual
effects.
