: ogeth me: It’s not abil rou step back that you

tealize it’s a terrible thing to have done.”

He paused for a moment, and added, “I don’t
know what I was thinking.”

Moore and the six pledges that joined him
were arrested shortly after returning to campus,
after a Town of Davidson employee reported
the incident to police. ;

“We realized immediately that we had done
something horrendous,” he said. ““You get that
nervous, sick, nauseous feeling. It doesn’t be-
come a reality until it actually happens. It
wasn’t until we got to jail that we had time to
think about what happened. That’s a bad place
to think about what you’ve done wrong.”

Moore was released on bond the next morn-
ing. But as media coverage of the incident
intensified over ensuing days and weeks, he
says he became the target of widespread public
anger. ,

“I’ve gotten a barrage of nasty e-mails and
phone messages telling me where Ican stick my
golf clubs,” he said. “I’ve been called a Nazi, a
slave trader. It’s been sort of bizarre to get
strange anonymous e-mails from the general
public. It’s hard not to respond when someone
calls you a Nazi. You really have to bite your
tongue, but you can’t respond to it.”

Moore says things got so bad that he was
forced to change his daily routines to avoid
further abuse.

“J didn’t answer my phone for about two
months because I was too nervous about who
might be calling. I’ ve sort of been a recluse,” he
said. “It’s sort of embarrassing to go places
because my mug shot has been all over the
news. I’d go to the supermarket and give them
my card. They’d say, ‘Oh, you’re the kid who
killed the goose.’ People in line would snicker.”

Db,

Despite the backlash, Moore says the media

coverage—including several local television

news reports and stories in The Charlotte Ob-
er—remained accurate except for one key"

.

point.

“Whoever printed that there were children
around was lying. The park was empty,” he said.

Moore withdrew his application to a San
Diego law school because he figured it would be
declined once the school learned of his arrest.
He doesn’t know whether the incident will
cause problems for other graduate schools and
potential employers, but said he knows he can’t
stay in North Carolina.

“I sure as heck can’t get a job in this state, so
I’ll have to go somewhere else,” he said.

Although staying home while his friends and
classmates walk across the stage to receive their
diplomas will be painful, Moore says he is
optimistic about his future.

“It’s something I’m going tocarry with me for
along time. It’s a hard realization that my life is
changed permanently from this,” he said. “I
think it will really hit me that I didn’t graduate
when May 18 comes and goes. But I’m a.big
believer in things happening for a reason. I’m
trying to make the best of a bad situation.” I think
his goal was to determine whether or not I
realized the severity of my actions, whether I
truly believed I had done something wrong, and
to get feedback as to why it happened. I gave
sincere answers: and he seemed satisfied with
what I had to say.

“I thought I was going to go before yet another
firing squad, but it wasn’ t like that at all,” Moore
said. “It was more of a one-on-one conversation
than me looking up at a panel. I really had a
chance to talk as a human being rather than
someone who was being interrogated. It was
much more productive than my previous two
hearings.”

ich DLOTVER

4/25 Patterson Ct.
Underage Possession

Alcohol Violation

4/25 Patterson Ct.
ID checker at party was drinking underage

Alcohol Violation

4/25 Nelson Lane Alcohol Violation
Student was vomiting and had been drinking underage

4/25
Public Possession

Ridge Road Alcohol Violation

4/25 Patterson Ct.
Underage Possession

Alcohol Violation

4/25 Martin Ct. Damage to Property
Known students were diving into holly bushes causing approximately $800 worth of
damage. Students were referred to Dean’s Office for disciplinary action.

4/25 Patterson Ct. Larceny of a Sign
Two students were observed carrying a large sign on Patterson Ct. Students removed the

sign from the Brickhouse Tavern and had unknown plans for the sign. Both students had also
been drinking underage. Students have been referred to the Dean’s Office for disciplinary

action.

4/26 Martin Ct. Alcohol Violation
Student was vomiting and had been drinking underage.

4/26 Martin Ct.
Underage Possession

Alcohol Violation

4/27 Patterson Ct.
Underage Possession

Alcohol Violation

4/27 Martin Ct. — Alcohol Violation
Known student threw a 32-ounce glass beer bottle onto the roadway causing it to break.
Student was required to clean up the glass and has been referred to the Dean’s Office for
disciplinary action.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson/edu/publicsafety.

a

Conference, from page 3

drawing more people into the life of interna-
tional programs at Davidson, then I'll consider
that a success,” said Alexander.

Alexander and the Student Advisory Com-
mittee are currently discussing topics for next

year’s conference. The list has been narrowed .

to three rather broad issues: the challenges of
US foreign policy in a unipolar world, the
global social, economic and political implica-
tions of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, and sustain-
able development in the age of globalization.

The three finalists were chosen from the 50
suggestions, mostly from students. While they
remain too broad and will be honed down to
more specific issues, Alexander said,’“The
topic must be large enough to appeal to a broad
range of constituencies, not only the political
science or economics majors.”

So as to succeed given that delicate balance,
Alexander and the Student Advisory Commit-
tee will hold tonight’s open conversation.

Along with participation in tonight’s discus-
sion, Alexander hopes to see the student body
play a vital role in the organization and running
of the conference. “What we are going to need
students to do will be to agree to participate in
panels, present, some of their own work, and
critique the work of classmates or members
who participate in the conference,” said
Alexander.”“‘There’s a whole range of activi-
ties.”

Alexander looks forward to the next year. He
said, “My goal is for us to not think of the Bank
of America conference purely in terms of the
two or three days of the event itself. I’d like the
planning and organization of this over the course
of the next year to become part of the event.”

Cable, from page 3

Currently, Hubbard and the SGA are con-
tinuing to seek further support for the cable
plan. Recent publicity in the Davidsonian, as
well as the SGA vote of confidence, should give
the resolution enough steam to continue to be a
relevant issue to the college. Hubbard plans to
continue meeting with President Vagt in hopes
of keeping an open dialogue with the adminis-
tration.

Washington and Hubbard make it clear that
specific policy issues will take a back seat to the
current resolution — for the time being. Ques-
tions of cable fees and other practical consider-
ations will have to wait until a consensus is
reached on the validity of the cable plan itself.

Hubbard said, “Policy issues just cloud the
issue of whether cable is a good idea in the first
place.”

In the mean time, Washington hopes to keep
the cable agenda alive and well in SGA and in
the minds of the student body.

“Cable is very high on SGA’s priority list,”
he said. “I want to make sure it’s well on its way
before I leave office.”

If you can beat these prices start your
own damn airline! Mexico/Caribbean
only $125 each way, all taxes included!
Or Europe for $179 one way.
Book online www.airtech.com
or (212) 219-7000.

m= 5, LIFEGUARDS

AQUATICS WANTED!
We offer top pay, great
Incentives, and flexible hours.

Call Kim for an appointment:
704-665-7544

