5

By Steve KALIskI
Staff Writer

Upon leaving “The Matrix: Revolutions,” I .

actually felt pretty good about it. The special
effects were amazing. I understood the plot.
The trilogy had resolved itself logically. I was
entertained.

In other words, there is not enough faint
praise in the world with which I can damn the
franchise’s much-anticipated finale. If held at
gunpoint and forced to choose between a
thumbs up or a thumbs down, I would recom-
mend the film. It is sad that I would need such
a drastic scenario to do so. “The Matrix” used
to be better than that.

Alternating abruptly between the most ex-
treme shades of brilliance and wretchedness,
“Revolutions” will probably disappoint more
fans that it will enthrall. Groupies who regarded
the original film as a tife-altering experience
will no doubt Suffer from the epiphany that the
phrase “just a movie” applies to this install-
ment even more than “The Matrix: Reloaded.”

Astoundingly straightforward, “Revolu-
tions” never aspires to the challenging intel-
lectual levels of its predecessors. The machines
are close to penetrating Zion. The renegade
program Smith (the ever-cheeky Hugo Weav-
ing) has grown exponentially and is determined
to conquer both the human and the machine
world. Neo (Keanu Reeves), who is still grap-
pling with his totally cool One-ness, must save
mankind from both of these evils.

The Wachowski brothers make two uncon-
scionable decisions with “Revolutions” that
automatically distance it from the greatness of
the first film. First, they all but abandon the
signature, souped-up martial arts sequences
that redefined the action genre and inspired an
endless barrage of tributes and parodies. This
film exists almost entirely on a Lucasfilm plane
of mechanical imagination.

’ Granted, this more straightforward approach
to science fiction is executed to near perfec-
tion. Ona technical level, the attack on Zion is
every bit as impressive as the battle of Helms
Deep in “The Two Towers.” The sentinels, the
machine world’s trademark destroyers, look

They’re back: Hugo Weaving as Agents Smith

more like demonic jellyfish than ever, and their
poetic assault on the underground city never
outlasts its welcome.

The second and more dangerous of the two
decisions is that the Wachowskis render “Re-
loaded” absolutely useless by ignoring most
of the philosophical threads that they wasted
so much time developing in their first sequel.
The fascinating implications of that memora-
bly confounding scene with the Architect are
pushed to the side in favor of pure visual sen-
sationalism.

When the directors do make an attempt at
continuity between the two sequels, “Revolu-
tions” bottoms out in cinematic incompetence.
Judging from the film’s abysmal first hour,
you’d think the Wachowskis had never heard
a solid line of dialogue or learned how to prop-
erly develop a scene.

This departure is even more of a debacle
when you consider that the Wachowskis con-
ceived both of their sequels at the same time.
Did they know that many of their fans would
be disappointed by “Reloaded?” If so, then
what was the point of producing a trilogy? After
seeing “Revolutions,” in which honestly not a
whole lot happens, you’ll wonder why they
didn’t just resign themselves to making one
follow-up. Oh yeah, money.

Tocontinue my whining, Keanu Reeves has
to be the worst actor in the universe. In the first
film, Neo was an oblivious idiot, so Keanu more

or less delivered the performance of a lifetime.

zt

But now that we are supposed to accept him as
Jesus Christ, the transcendent savior of all
humanity, he’s just impossible to bear. Not
even Laurence Fishburne, ‘whose legendary
Morpheus is reduced to a Lando Calrissian
level of importance, can save his co-star.

If you haven’t yet seen “The Matrix Revo-
lutions,” hopefully these observations will
lower your expectations to such a point that
you can enjoy it. It’s not a bad movie. It’s just
a reasonably effective science fiction story
trapped in the body of a possibly magnificent
franchise.

The Matrix: Revolutions
Directed by:
Andy and Larry Wachoski
Written by:
The Wachoskis

Siarring:

Keanu Reeves, Carrie-Anne Moss,
Laurence Fishburne, Hugo Weaving,
Jada Pinkett-Smith
Running time:

129 minutes

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 12, 2003

By CuristiInE HAYCOOK
Staff Writer

As Malachy McCourt puts it, ‘blaguard’ is
“an affectionate term for the rowdy outgoing
and sometimes drinking sort of boys,” and a
couple of these boys will be on campus this
Saturday. Probably more than just a couple,
according to the definition, but the two I am
speaking\specifically of will be here perform-
ing in the hitcomedy “A Couple of Blaguards.”

According to their family, the McCourt
brothers co-wrote this show to “cobble these
stories into a script and tell the world.” These
stories speak to their Irish upbringing in Lim-
erick — not huge events or spectacular
revelations, but just the trivial day-to-day com-
edy that shaped the lads into the men they are
today, reminiscing about the old days. In fact,
the comedy and the Anglo-Irish language it-
self take center stage: the two men use no more
than a table, some props, and a couple glasses
of Guinness to bring the show to life.

This show served as a spring board for the
brothers’ careers. Frank McCourt has since
authored the bestsellers ‘““Angela’s Ashes,” for
which he won a Pulitzer Prize for literature,
and “’ Tis.”

His brother, Malachy McCourt, is author of
the bestseller ““A Monk Swimming” and “Sing-
ing My Him Song.” He is an accomplished actor
on and off Broadway as well as in a number of
movies, and his most current role is that of
Father Meehan on the HBO series, “Oz.”

The show will be at 8 p.m. this Saturday in
the Duke Family Performance Hall. Though
the show is usually performed by Howard Platt
and Mickey Kelly, Davidson is fortunate to
have Malachy playing himself. Audience mem-
bers are encouraged to stick around after the
show for a book signing by Malachy McCourt
and.a Guinness in the 900 Room with the ac-
tors. The best seats in the house, the orchestra
pit tickets, are only $10 for students.

Up and coming rockers ‘Kill
Hannah’ to play 900 Room

By Curis SCHMADER
Arts & Living Editor

Some cities have been blessed at one time or
another with nationally renowned rock music
scenes. Chicago is not one of these cities. While
certain bands from Chicago have had break-
through moments (Veruca Salt, Local H) or
careers (Smashing Pumpkins), the city has
never attracted attention to its rock commu-
nity in the same way that cities such as New
York or Seattle have in the past.

This cold reality has made it tough going for
bands in the Windy City, but after years of hard
work Chicago-based rockers Kill Hannah may
be poised for success on the national level.
Currently touring to support their major-label
debut “For Never and Ever,” Kill Hannah will
play a show for Davidson students this Friday
in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room at the Alvarez
Student Union. The show begins at 10 p.m.
and admission is free.

In its present incarnation, Kill Hannah con-
sists of singer/guitarist Mat Devine, guitarist/
keyboardist Jon Radtke, guitarist Dan Wiese,
bassist Greg Corner and drummer Garret
Hammond. Though the band claims influences
ranging from indie rock legends the Pixies and
My Bloody Valentine to megastars suchas U2,
the best point of reference for their sound is
Smashing Pumpkins, who were at the height
of their popularity when Devine began assem-
bling Kill Hannah’ s original lineup in the mid-
90’s. Ladén with sweetly melodic hooks,
drenched in glossy distortion and heavy drum-

ming, and featuring Devine’s androgynous
vocals, the songs on “For Never and Ever” are
the work of a band that has been honing its
material for some time.

Kill Hannah have done just that, striving for

nearly a decade to realize fully the sound they
have achieved on their major label debut. Ac-
cording to Devine, the group took a big step
forward by signing with Atlantic Records.
“Atlantic has been really good to us,” he said
over the phone last Friday. “The economics of
a record like [“For Never and Ever”] make it
impossible to accomplish without a profes-
sional studio.”
"Yet the changes that come with wider expo-
sure are always a potential source of friction
between a band approaching the big time and
its diehard fans. Kill Hannah have built up a
strong fan base in Chicago by playing show
after show at local clubs and by showing their
appreciation for their audience after each gig—
Devine says that the band has “spent hours after
every show meeting everyone, from day one.”
As a result, the band now plays to a capacity
crowd whenever they headline in Chi-town, and
they have no reason to believe that their fans
will have any qualms should their music reach
a national audience.

Inthe meantime, the band will try to make as
many converts as possible. “We want people
to see a band that they can get excited about,
and that they’ Il want to tell their friends about,”
says Devine. This weekend will see whether
Kill Hannah will win over some new fans at
Davidson.
