THE DAvVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2003 13

Women find
offense, pick
up W at GSU

By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

Having been held scoreless for over 400
consecutive minutes, the second half of the
game against Georgia Southern did not look
very promising for the women’s soccer team.

Coming out of halftime deadlocked at zero-
zero, the ’Cats dominated play, but could not
seem to finish their opportunities.

Then, finally, in the 88th minute, captain
Amy Leitch ’04 passed a beautiful through-
ball to Jenny Soldano ’06, who netted her first
collegiate goal and the game-winner against
the Eagles.

The win snapped a four game losing streak
for the "Cats, giving the team some much
needed confidence and a conference victory
that they needed even more.

That one goal may have been what Davidson
was looking for in order to turn around their
mediocre season.

Last Friday, the ’Cats returned home to play
conference powerhouse App. St. Although the
game ended in a 0-0 tie, Davidson dominated
the rough game, holding a 17-7 shot advan-
tage. In a game in which the refs called 43
fouls and handed out 3 yellow cards, the ’Cats
held their own throughout both overtimes,
including in the second OT when goalie Sarah
Hobart ’05 snatched a crucial corner kick out
of the air. Hobart went on to record her fifth
shutout of the season, needing only to save
two shots on goal.

This past Sunday, Davidson traveled to
Charleston to play the bottom feeder in the
SoCon, The Citadel. Having been so close on
sO many opportunities in the previous two

Steven H. Eyler O.D.
Maggie M. Metwaifi O.D.

704-547-1551
8316 Suite E.
Medical Plaze Or.
Chaslotte/University Area

New EYECARE IN DAVIDSON.

UNIVERSITY
FYE
» ASSOCIATES

Doctors of Optometry PA.

Kristin N. Richwine O.D.

Wie care about yout eyes

« Comprehensive family eye care

* Treatment of aye disease & disorders
« Majority of insurance plans accepted
+ LASIK surgery cansultations

- Large selection of fashion eyewear

« Protective (safety) eyewear

« Saturday appointments avaliable

704-896-9090
455 S. Main St, Ste 100 - Davidson

www.universityeyeod.com —

Jenny Soldano ’06 netted her
first career goal at Ga. Southern

games, the ’Cats came out firing, and, 23
minutes into the match, Sara Huber ’04 found
the back of the net on a timely rebound off a
blocked shot by the Bulldog goalkeeper.

After that, the floodgates opened, and
Davidson scored once more before the end of
the half and three times in the second. Jessica
Lahre ’07 recorded her first collegiate points,
scoring once and assisting on two other goals.

Over the previous three games, the ’Cats
have gone 2-0-1, improving their conference
record to 3-2-2. Now fully awake on offense,
the ’Cats will hope the.stellar play continues,
as Davidson has conference games coming up
against Furman on Oct. 24 and Wofford on
Oct. 26.

Behind a solid defense and great goalie play
from Hobart (three shutouts in the past three
games), now is the time for the ’Cats to make
a late-season run and get ready for the confer-
ence tournament: >

Kenneth W. Best O.D.
N. Elaine Osbome O.D.

704-536-6042
6604-E~
East Hanis Bitvd
ChariottelHickory Grove

“is netoriously fast and

Volleyball sings road blues

By WiLson McCrory
Staff Writer

A disturbing trend for the volleyball team
was again brought to glaring attention this past
week, as the Wildcats were swept by confer-
ence foes Georgia Southern, Appalachian State
and Western Carolina in successive matches.

The ’Cats were unable to pull out even a
single game in their three-game road trip
through the Southeast, as they were outscored
a combined 9-0 in the three matches. More
discouraging, perhaps, was that the three losses
dropped the team to a combined 1-10 record
on the road this season, including an 0-6 mark
in Southern Conference play.

The three-game swing began at Georgia
Southern, with the Wildcats coming off a
dominating home win over Wofford only two
days before. The ’Cats were unable to trans-
late that momentum into another win, how-
ever, as they fell 30-23, 30-26, 30-23 to the
SoCon foe.

Latisha Chapman ’04 notched 15 kills in the
match but finished with a sub-par .122 attack
percentage. Jenna Dykstra ’07 had another
solid outing, reaching eight kills on an effi-
cient .368 attack percentage.

The Wildcats then traveled to Boone, NC, to
face North division-leading Appalachian State,

looking to continue a five-game winning streak
over the Mountaineers. Appalachian State left
little doubt that the streak would end by open-
ing up a quick 18-9 cushion in game one, and
the Mountaineers went on to cruise to a 3-0
(30-25, 30-23, 30-22) win.

Chapman tallied a match-high 20 kills, but
they were not enough to stop the Mountaineer
runs of 9-0, 13-3, 6-1, and 6-1 that served to
define the contest.

In the final match of the weekend against
Western Carolina, the Wildcats were again
outpaced in the first game, and they were
never able to recover against the Catamounts.
The ’Cats were swept 3-0 (30-22, 30-21, 30-
18), and the offense was almost nonexistent in
posting an anemic .085 attack percentage that
included nearly as many errors as kills. For the
match, the Catamounts notched only five more
kills than Davidson, but the team attack per-
centage was nearly 300 points higher.

Overall, it was a frustrating week for the
team, as the three losses highlighted the road
struggles that have plagued the season. Fortu-
nately for the ’Cats, the next seven contests
will be held in the friendly confines of Belk
Arena, where Davidson is 9-5 on the season.

That stretch begins with UNC Greensboro
on Saturday at 5 p.m. and culminates against
Chattanooga on Saturday, November 8.

Runners finish strong at
N.C. Intercollegiate Race

By Austin MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

It was a cool, crisp October morning this
past Saturday as the men’s and women’s cross-
country teams laced up their spikes to race
against some of the best colleges in thes
the North Carolina Intercoll
Eastern Carolina University’ On a course thht
i biously measured,
the Wildcatstturned Out superb performances
in the last race before the Southern Confer-
ence Championships.

The women were the first to race, and they
did not fail to impress as they finished third as
a team, only one agonizing point behind sec-
ond-place Wake Forest, and only 12 points
behind overall team champion Charlotte.

Captain Laura Puckett ’04 was pleased with
the team’s effort: “Our training is coming to
fruition now with great racesOeveryone is
showing great improvement.”

The women were led by Allie Martin ’06
and Kelly Fillnow ’05, who finished 8th and
13th, respectively. Fillnow took early com-
mand of the race, seizing the lead during the
first mile, but Martin’s strong third mile car-
ried her to a top-ten finish and fastest time of
the year. Rounding out the scoring five for the

Deciding to go to

seminary might keep
Ju awake at night

Pittsburgh Theological Seminary understands the
fiscal responsibility of pursuing higher education. -
That is why we have continued our ongoing
commitment to both merit scholarships and need- .
based financial assistance.

Seminary sooK REBATES PRESIDENTIAL SCHOLARSHIPS
wh RENT REBATES ACADEMIC PRIZES
é WORK STUDY INTERNATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS
For more information about the academic programs and financial assis-

tance visit our website al www.pts.edu or call our tol-free admissions line at
1-800-451-4184. Or stop by and viait our representative, the Rev. Elie Johns,
Tueeday, October 21, in the Brown Atrium of Alvarez Union from 12:30 - 3:30 pm.

Wildcats were Sally Stanhope ’05 in 23rd,
Jenna Kruppa ’04 in 31st, and Laura Puckett
°04 in S5Sth.

The men’s race followed shortly thereafter,
as the men measured themselves against some
of the best teams in the state (and even a few
from other states). In Division | results, the
men’s team finished fourthourth, behiiid North
Carolina, High Point, and Duke. They were
led by co-captain Chris Schmader ’04, whose
short, quick strides carried him to a team-best
34th-place finish.

Following soon after was Ben Gaspar °04,
who had the race of the day for the Wildcats,
surprised everyone but himself as he jumped
to the number two spot on the team with his
44th-place finish. Completing the top four for
Davidson were Jonathan Baker ’06 in 49th
and Matt Rhodes ’07 in 65th..

The race turned out to be quite an exciting
tune-up for the Conference Race, which will
be held.at Davidson on Saturday, November 1.
Both the men and women are excited for the
run the Conference meet on their own course,
seeking home-course advantage with the sup-
port of their Davidson fans.

Men’s head coach Gary Andrew anticipates
the SoCon Championships, saying, “With a
little bit of fine tuning, we’re going to be ready
to rock the conference on November 1.”

Paying for 11
shouldnt

“
