The

First CLass
U.S. PostacE Paip
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

sontan

@ “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 2003

VOLUME 95, NUMBER |

Cosby show to
break ‘college
rock’ trend

By Carouine K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

He doesn’t do encores.

In a May 2003 interview with Readers’ Di-
gest, Bill Cosby explained, “When I perform, I
never come back for an encore, because I have
said all I wanted to say for that particular act.”’

This won’ tbe the only difference from recent
concerts. When a student survey ranked Cosby
eighth on a list of potential performers, “the
timing just seemed right” to bring a comedy
show to Davidson said Lee Ann Bannerman,
Assistant Director of Union Programs.

“We’ve been wanting to do comedy for a
long time,” she said, “and when you’ re talking
comedy, there just isn’t anybody else that comes
close. Cosby is the king. In the industry, there’s
nobody bigger.”

Some, of course, were surprised that the fall
concert wouldn’t feature a musical act. Concert
Committee Chair Liz Smith ’04 explains, “We

see Cosby, page 4

Record enrollment strains campus resources
Orientation 2003 4

Largest freshman class ever
suprises Admissions, puts
pressure on Residence Life

By Ros HErprick
Staff Writer

As the new semester begins and students
settle back into college life, they may notice
more new faces than usual around campus. A
sudden increase in Davidson’s on-campus
population, caused partially by a higher-than-
expected admissions yield in the class of 2007,
has been the focus of controversy early in the
semester.

School officials estimate that approximately
50 more students than usual requested to live on
campus this semester, including first-year stu-
dents and upperclassmen who decided not to go
abroad or to live off-campus.

The number of students living on-campus
has been kept in check in recentcyears through
careful estimates of the sizes of incoming
classes. This year’s class size, however, ex-
ceeded all expectations.

“Essentially, more students said ‘yes’ to us
than we expected this year,’ says Dean of
Admissions Nancy Cable.

Tthe Admissions Office aims for 465 to 475
enrollments per class, according to Cable. The
class of 2007 yielded 492, as compared to the
468 students in the class of 2006 and the 475 in
the class of 2005.

Cable also reports a 19 percent increase in the
number of applicants to this year’s class. 3,927
students applied to the class of ’07; of these,
31.8 percent were admitted, compared to the
34.4 percent admission rate of the class of ’06.

“The economy was showing weakness, and
the quality of the applicants was up from the
year before,” says Cable. “All indicators
showed that there would be fewer enrollments,

see Overenrollment, page 4

Cafe alters meal plan options

By Les_i— HEMPSON
Staff Writer

Upon returning to Davidson last weekend,
many students were surprised to discover that
they could no longer use their meal plan to
purchase pre-packaged items from the Union
Cafe.

Under a policy referred to as Meal Plan
Equivalency, students are permitted to utilize
their meal plan at the Cafe from 6 to 8 p.m.
each evening. Auxiliary Services officials re-
viewed this policy over the summer, and they

Should gay marriage

be banned?
Columnist
weighs in

PERSPECTIVES, PAGE 8

decided to limit the items that students could
acquire. Although meal plan equivalency con-
tinues to cover bottled beverages, baked

‘goods, and other items prepafed by the Cafe,

it now excludes pre-pac items, such as
energy bars, potato chips, and yogurt.
Richard Terry, Director of Auxiliary Ser-
vices, explained that a committee made these
changes in an attempt to preserve the original
intent of the meal plan. The policy was created
so that students, particularly athletes, could

see Cafe, page 4

Ten Odyssey participants made creative entrances to Freshman
Orientation by paddling 125 miles along the Catawba River to Lake
Norman. Find full coverage of Orientation activities on pages 2 and 3.

ITS: We can’t combat viruses alone

Nation-wide spread of Internet worms strike campus;
students asked to update computers to fight back

By Matr GarFIELD
Editor

Davidson ITS officials have a message for.

students frustrated by faulty Internet and e-mail
access over the past week: Protect your comput-
ers, or expect more of the same problems.

Three Internet viruses have struck the cam-
pus network over the past month, creating head-
aches for students and staff by blocking access
to the Web for hours at a time.

More viruses will crop up unless students
take the time to be “good network citizens” by
installing the anti-virus CD “patch” distributed
by ITS, says Marcia Makl, ITS Director of
Networks and Systems.

ITS ‘technicians worked late into the night
and even on several weekends recently to com-
bat the viruses, but MakI said other schools have
had even more trouble.

“We worked hard and fast and had the CDs
waiting, but we still don’t have it contained
yet,” she said. “[But] we have done much better
than most.”

The three viruses are only the latest signs of
a growing problem facing computer networks

around the nation: isolated “hackers” who de-
sign Viruses that can block Internet access to
millions of users.

Davidson’s recent network problems began
with the MSBlast worm, developed by a teen-
ager in Minnesota who was arrested last week.
The CD that ITS distributed to arriving students
last week was aimed at combating that virus.

The so-called Nachi worm, even more prob-
lematic than its MSBlast predecessor, emerged
last Thursday, and is now coming under control,
says Makl.

Finally, an e-mail virus caused 40,000

“spoof” e-mails to circulate in Outlook mail-
boxes, but Mak] says ITS scanners have blocked
most of those from doing damage.

The key, she said, is to pay attention to the
almost daily e-mails sent out by ITS Director
John Casey, and make sure to install the virus-
fighting CD.

“Students have to have up-to-date anti-virus
applications,” Mak] said.““We’re not trying to
target students. We’re targeting misbehaved
computers.

“We’ re going to have to protect the rest of the
campus.”

TNS 0) St e's @ SPORTS: Football falls.to Wingate in opener stepac:w

Cannon

chills out at the
Penguin Palace

Aal, PAGE 8

Why you
should care
about the

Wildcats

SPORTS, PAGE 9
