@ ALENDA LU

Davipson COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2003

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 22

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele
Jessi Williams ’05 rehearses for the Dance Ensemble’s spring
recital on Tuesday night. The program will honor senior Katherine
Costa, who was killed in a March car accident. See story, page 4.

Forum finds most students
would come here again

Students cite social life, diversity as biggest problems

By AMEE PaTEL
News Editor

Knowing hundreds of high school seniors
will soon fill the campus for Decision Davidson,
making very important decisions other college
choices, 30 current students came together Sun-
day night at the Black Student Coalition house
to assess their own decisions of attending
Davidson.

Entitled. “If you could make the choice all
over again, would you still choose Davidson?”
Sunday’s BSC discussion raised several issues
about Davidson life, both academic and social.

Tiffany Kelley ’03, the organizer of the dis-
cussion, thought the topic to be something most
often overlooked.

“] thought back to freshman year and how
people will always ask why you chose
Davidson,” Kelley said. “However, after that

year no one ever asks you the follow-up
question of whether or not you feel you made
the right choice and why or why not.”

In answering the question, students ac-
knowledged ‘the opportunities at Davidson
which are unmatched by other schools. How-
ever, some had regrets about their decisions.

“T know what I was getting into when I came
to Davidson,” said Paul Wyatt ’05. “I didn’t
feel tricked coming here, but I do wish a lot of
things could be better.”

Main concerns ranged from a lack of social
outlets on campus to the perception of stu-
dents’ ignorance of different cultures and ways
of life.

Mary Square ’05 voiced concerns stemming
from her. academics. She said, “The motto is
‘Let learning be cherished where liberty has

see Forum, page 3

Freshman still in hospital
after serious bike accident

By Ros HE prick
Staff Writer

A Davidson freshman injured in a mountain
biking accident two weeks ago has been relo-
cated to’a special facility closer to home.

Dave Andersen ’06 was out riding with
friends Eli Smith ’04 and Will Stoudemire ’06
at North Mecklenburg Community Park on
Monday, March 23 when he flipped over his
handlebars at acreek crossing, damaging his C5
vertebrae,

The injury is his second biking-related i injury
in his time at Davidson, though this one is far
more serious than the first. Andersen was
checked into Carolinas Medical Center in Char-
lotte, where his injuries were diagnosed.

According to Davidson Outdoors Assistant
Director Mike Goode, Andersen underwent

’ surgery that evening to remove the back portion

of the C5 vertebrae in order to reduce pressure
on his spine.

Three days later he went through surgery
again, this time to remove bone fragments from
the front of the vertebrae.

The damaged vertebra was replaced with a
bone transplant from Andersen’s own right hip,
as well as a titanium plate.

He remained in Charlotte for nearly two
weeks, resting and recovering.

Friday he was relocated to the Shepherd
Spinal Center in Atlanta, where he will begin a
long rehabilitation process closer to his home in
Stone Mountain.

Andersen could
not be reached for
comment.

Goode reports that
a large portion of the
Davidson commu-
nity supported
Andersen through-
out his time in Char-
= lotte.

“Lots of Davidson

students have visited

and helped the Andersens while they were in
town,” says Goode.

“Ernest Jeffries in the Dean of Students Of-
fice and Rob Spach in the Chaplain’s office
have also been in touch with Dave and his
parents.”

Andersen will not be able to return to
Davidson until next semester at the earliest, due
to the need for a slow and carefully paced
recovery.

Andersen

Four students earn awards
in science and humanities

BRANDON CARROLL

News Editor

Four Davidson students have won prestigious

. national awards, two winning the Andrew W.

Mellon Fellowship in Humanistic Studies, and
two winning awards from the National Science
Foundation. The awards were announced last
week.

Ross Fenimore ’02 and Jarrett Welsh ’03 have
each won an Andrew W. Mellon Fellowship in
Humanistic Studies. The Mellon fellowship,
awarded annually to about 90 students nation-
wide, covers fees and tuition for one year of
graduate study along with a stipend of $17,500.
Fenimore and Welsh mark five Davidson
Mellon Fellows since 1998 alone, including two
last year.

Zogby to deliver Batten lecture tonight

College still interviewing for next year’s professorship

By AMEE PATEL
News Editor

After spending the past semester at Davidson
teaching courses on Middle East conflict during
tumultuous times in the region, Dr. James Zogby
will present the Batten lecture tonight at 7:30
p.m. in the 900 Room.

Zogby, the James K. Batten Visiting Profes-
sor of Public Policy, will speak on “What Arabs
think of Americas: A Growing Crisis in Under-
standing.”

Zogby explained, “I’m going to talk about the
degree to which we’ ve become aware of the gap
in perceptions and understanding between us
and the Arab world and the dangers that poses
tous, in part based on my polling and part based

on my experiences. One of the by-products of
September 1 1 was that we became aware of the
Middle East, but that awareness hasn’t neces-
sarily increased our understanding. The result
has been more misunderstanding than more
understanding.”

With the nation embroiled in a war with Iraq,
Zogby will address the conflict. “I will deal
with the war in Iraq, as well as other issues that
divide our country from the people of the
region,” he said. “In that context, of course, the
question of Palestine looms large.”

Over the past semester, Zogby has dedicated
himself to creating more understanding and

communication within the student body as

see Lecture, page 2

Fenimore majored in musicology with a gen-
der studies concentration at Davidson. Dr. Neil
Lerner, Assistant Professor of Music, was im-
pressed by Fenimore’s “deft handling of several
scholarly disciplines” in his senior thesis on
Samuel Barber’s Knoxville: Summer of 1915.
Lerner noted that Fenimore’s thesis: tied to-
gether concepts from anthropology, political
science and literary studies.

“He finds ways to let the study of music
inform the study of larger cultural and societal
issues,” Lerner said. “In particular, his interest
in the study of music and gender is well-focused
and should take him to exciting places.”

Fenimore says, “My interests intersect with
what scholars refer to as ‘new musicology’

see Fellows, page 3

INSIDE THIS WEEK

NO WG iiiisveiivernrwsiecdecuscuvceeteweidivs 1-4
The SGA holds discussions on
cable TV in dorm rooms. Page 3.

Arts & Livitng............cccecesseenseee 5-6
Our critics discuss the animated
film “Spirited Away” and the action
flick “Phone Booth.” Page 5.

Perspectives 11-12
Social rift re-visited: Is it really
cause for alarm? Our columnist
weighs in. Page 12.

Sports 13-1
The football team is readying for a
tough fall schedule. Page 16.

