e

@ ALENDA LU

Davison COLLEGE

D

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 26, 2003

VOLUME 94, NUMBER 20

photo by Eron Earley-Thiele

Dave Matthews (right) and Tim Reynolds performed a three-hour
show for 4,700 fans on Tuesday night in Belk Arena.

Concert Review

‘A little joy in this gymnasium’

STAFF REPORTS

Dave Matthews and Tim Reynolds helped
4,700 fans take their minds off more serious
matters for three hours on Tuesday night, giving
Belk Arena a coffee house atmosphere with a
laid-back, mellowed approach to their concert.

“Tn these troubled times, these difficult times,
I hope all your hearts are steadfastly beating
with love,” Matthews said early in the show,
referring to the war in Iraq. “I hope we can all
find a little joy in this gymnasium this evening.”

The Davidsonian asked three concertgoers to
share their impressions of the show.

Brendan Wittstruck ‘04

Tuesday night’s show belonged not to
Matthews or to frat boys, but to a man rather
diminutive in stature, Tim Reynolds.

Dave Matthews sat on his stool onstage in
_ Belk Arena, tuned his guitar to drop D, and
launched into a soulful acoustic version

of‘Bartender,.” Reynolds kept fairly quiet dur-
ing the first few tunes, but as they bounded
through the gleeful “Everyday,” Reynolds fi-
nally let loose his lightning speed and ear for
catchy licks. By the time the duo reached the
stadium anthem’“‘#41,” he was in full gear.

A number of songs during the night saw
extensive makeovers. For example, during
“When The World Ends,” the pair forwent the
gimmicky cut-off ending and replaced it with an
extended jam.

With bits of stories and hysterics sandwiched
in, Matthews and Reynolds graced the audience
with twenty-four songs, from the Dave
Matthews Band’s freshman to JOtaveligeet,”
written during a 2002 tour.

There were moments of brilliance in there,
too. Reynolds’ solo in’“Lie In Our Graves”
began as a slow picked-out melody and blos-
somed into the finest jam I have encountered in
all my bootlegs for that song. “Sleep To Dream

see Dave, page 6

SGA steps up for war effort

‘Operation Care’ for alumni
serving in war against Iraq

By GeorGiE AHRENDT
Staff Writer

While the members of the Davidson commu-
nity may hold very different opinions about the
war with Iraq, there is little disagreement that
American soldiers overseas should be supported
by their homeland in this time of peril and
uncertainty.

There are 130 Davidson alumni in the mili-
tary and it is estimated that about 30 to 60 are
actively serving in the Gulf.

In support of the Davidson alumni overseas,
the SGA is sponsoring Operation Care, which
involves gathering items for care packages for

each of the alums.

“We all feel that no matter what political view
we have towards the present conflict in Iraq, it
is important that we support members of our
community who are presently putting their life
on the line in belief that their action is positing
the American ideal of freedom,” Class Presi-
dent Francois Trappey ’06 said.

The SGA created a-committee made up of
Trappey, Bridget Kane ’06, Jack Hubbard’06,
Christina Evans ’06 and Sims Hill ’06 last
Thursday to organize the project. The commit-
tee met directly after the meeting to generate
ideas. They are trying to act quickly so that they
can get the care packages to the alumni as soon
as possible.

Boxes will be placed in residence hall

see SGA, page 3

Nighttime intruder startles
sleeping student in Akers

Police, RLO remind all

students to lock doors

By CaroLinE K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

Hours before most alarm clocks went off, one
Davidson student got a particularly rude awak-
ening when an intruder came into her dorm
room.

Atapproximately 2:30 a.m. yesterday, Steven
Woodruff, 31, of Cornelius, entered Akers resi-
dence hall.

“We’re not sure exactly how he got into the
building,” said Sam McKelvey, Director of
Public Safety and Campus Police. “The doors
were working fine, and no windows were bro-
ken or open. We suspect that someone admitted
this individual.”

In an email to students, Director of Residence
Life Leslie Marsicano explained, “[Woodruff]
entered an unlocked bedroom and was cutting
the pajamas off one of the sleeping residents
when she awoke and frightened him away.”

Bizarrely, said McKelvey, “[Woodruff]
dwelled outside the building. Friends of the
young lady, her roommate and the RA recog-
nized the man outside from her description.”

They had already called the police, and told
Woodruff to stay where he was. He did not, and
the students pursued him. At one point, the
chase stopped behind the Belk computer lab,
ultimately ending in the Cunningham parking
lot.

Campus police sergeant Dane Laney made
the arrest. Woodruff was taken to a Charlotte
jail and charged with breaking and entering.
Additional charges are pending, and the inci-
dent is under active investigation. Woodruff is
in no way affiliated with the College.

“This was odd,” said McKelvey. “In the five
years I’ve been here, we’ve not had a similar
incident.”

Despite its oddity and relatively untraumatic
outcome, the case is a reminder to students
about common sense and safety.

“People need to lock their doors,” empha-
sized McKelvey, “and not admit people they
don’t know to buildings, particularly residence
halls.”

“The Honor Code works so well,’ added
Marsicano, “people forget we don’t live under
a bubble.

“This guy looked like a student—he was
young, had on khaki pants—but even people
who look like students shouldn’t be let in if you
don’t know them.”

Goose killers avoid jail time

Students still face Code of
Responsibility sanctions

By Matt GaRFIELD
Editor

The seven students charged with felony ani-
mal cruelty for beating a goose to death in
February will not receive jail time under an
agreementreached last week with Mecklenburg
prosecutors.

Instead, the students were ordered to perform
100 hours of community service and undergo
psychological evaluations as part of the de-
ferred prosecution program, which allows first-
time offenders to avoid criminal records by
admitting their wrongdoing and maintaining
good behavior over the next 12 months.

If those conditions are met, the felony charges

- will be dismissed next year. If not, prosecutors

can try the students in court and use their
admissions against them.
The one senior and six freshmen charged in

the slaying could face additional sanctions from
the College. The Dean of Students Office will
soon hold individual Code of Responsibility
hearings to determine what sanctions, if any, to
levy against them.

The senior was amember of the Kappa Sigma
house, and the six freshmen were in the process
of pledging the fraternity. .

According to the Red Book, potential penal-
ties range from written reprimands to probation
from extracurricular activities to indefinite sus-
pension from school. The students could also be
ordered to make public apologies, pay fines or
participate in additional community service.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley declined to
comment on the potential outcomes, but said
the agreement reached with Mecklenburg pros-
ecutors would have no bearing on the College’s
decision.

Shandley said as of Tuesday, none of the
students had chosen to hold open hearings, an
option offered to those accused of Code of
Responsibility or Honor Code violations.

see Goose, page 2

Davidson files amicus brief in
Supreme Court case. Page 4.

Arts & Living..............cscccss00 5-6
Our movie critic says ‘The
Hunted’ falls flat. Page 5.

Perspectives.............cccccssensssene 7-8
What happens in Iraq after the
war is over? Page 8.

Sports 9-12

The Fillnow twins are coming on
strong for tennis team. Page 12.

INSIDE THIS WEEK

" Photo.courtesy ORI ee Report
Town of Davidson plans for |

ee oe
Story, page 2

