Staff Editorial

School ought to
explain decisions
that affect all of us

Many Davidsonians were surprised to learn of the sudden
departure of Director of Public Safety Sam McKelvey, who
resigned earlier this month for reasons that no one, including
McKelvey himself, is willing to share.

The veil of secrecy surrounding his departure should be
troubling to colleagues who maintained relationships with
McKelvey and students who came to appreciate his sense of
fairness and respect.

Rumors ‘have surfaced that McKelvey was forced to re-
sign. Administrators have declined to tell us whether that’s
true, saying it is against College policy to comment on per-
sonnel issues.~

Reached at his home on Monday, McKelvey also chose
not to comment, saying only that he would miss the many
students he had befriended over the years.

The only person to actually share any information about
McKelvey’s departure is Senior Class President Kevin Epps,
who wrote in a letter to The Davidsonian that McKelvey was
in fact forced out.

Administrators ought to explain decisions like these to those
of us who care about (and help pay for) the running of this
school. Certainly, it’s the prerogative of a private institution
to keep such decisions under lock and key. But that doesn’t
make it right.

These officials ought to maintain, at least to a higher ex-

tent, a policy of openness, especially on matters that affect |

all of us.

The departure of a man whose job was to ensure the safety
and well being of every person who set foot on this campus
certainly fits the bill.

In the meantime, McKelvey’s former office sits vacant,
and his friends and colleagues are only left to wonder what
might have caused him to say goodbye.

The

_.Editorir Chief,

Matt Garfield) >.
. Managing Editor

~~ Caroling Hauser a

i /- News Editors |
/ » ¢- mee Patel’®& Brandon Carroll. \\ ~~ '\
i. f <--Perspectives Editor: \\
; “" David Crow ~

scp

Rock the concért vote with e-mail survey

Now that the Dave Matthews/Tim Reynolds concert has
come and gone, as an incredible success, I feel it is neces-
sary to respond to many of the letters and articles that have
recently been printed in the Davidsonian.

As my second tenure as Concert Committee Chair for the
Union Board begins, it is imperative that we (the concert
committee and the campus as a whole) continue a dialogue

, “regarding concerts on campus.

During my first tenure, we
brought Counting Crows to Belk
Arena. It marked not only a signifi-
cant success, but also displayed the
talent and commitment many mem-
bers of the Davidson community
". have to producing quality shows on
campus.

Before we submitted a bid for that show, moreover, we
polled over 500 students, supplying them with a list of over
twenty-five bands from which to chose three. Out of those
500 polled via email (we were not allowed to poll the entire
campus because of mass email regulations), we received 181
responses, 70 freshmen, 44 sophomores, 48 juniors and 21
seniors.

The three bands with the highest responses were Counting
Crows (88 votes), Barenaked Ladies (77 votes) and Ben
Harper (58 votes). Dave Matthews was not on tour at the
time and therefore was not an option on the list; however, he
was a rewrite-in over twenty times.

Given this response, the availability of Counting Crows,
our budget and the availability of Belk Arena, we were more
than enthusiastic to bring this band to campus. While we re-
alized that this band would not attract everyone on campus,

it did have a significant draw and we sold approximately
3,500 tickets.

ER.

And the wraner +8 seee
I've taken

Now it is time again to poll students’ interests and submit
a bid for a concert for the fall of 2003. As concert committee
chair and a lover of music, I challenge this student body to
actively participate in the surveys that we will be distribut-
ing via email (in conjunction with SGA) after Easter break.
We, furthermore, hope that you will write in names of small
semi-national or regional acts that you would support in the
900 room.

In response to claims regarding a lack of diversity, I sim-
ply ask that you reflect upon the acts that have been on cam-
pus in the past year—Seed Is, Sankofa, Bering Strait,
Ludacris, John Mayer and Guster, and, of course, Dave
Matthews/Tim Reynolds. We hope that you take time to fill
out our surveys so that you will let us know how to better
spend your student activity funds.

Sincerely,
Elizabeth “Liz” Smith ‘04
Concert Committee Chair 2003-2004

Well, nex+ time
Keep That head

On. You're more
