THE DAvIDSONIAN

Honor Council struggles

¢

with position on file sharing

By RACHEL EGAN
* Staff Writer

Although the Honor Code is one of the lead-
ing influences on Davidson’s campus, very few
students actually know what goes on behind the
scenes of the Honor Council.

Jamie McNabb ’04, Honor Council chair, is
anxious for this to change. His primary focus
this year is to ensure that the Honor Council’s
hearings go well. “I want students to recognize
that it is a process that’s well-run, and run just
for them,” he said.

McNabb ‘also hopes to increase campus
awareness about the Council’s positions and
activities, and is doing away with the educa-
tional mock trial, which normally takes place at
the beginning of the school year, in favor of
distributing literature straight to dorm rooms
about once every semester.

On average, the Council has about six hear-
ings per year, mostly around final exam periods
although that number varies greatly with the
individual classes. The Executive Committee
hears cases the first time they are presented, and
is composed of around thirty elected officials,
including a Chair and a Vice Chair. ©

The Review Board handles all appeals filed
against the Council, and serves a more impor-
tant function than most students think it does,
said McNabb. The Board basically gives the
convicted student one last chance to clear their
name. Solicitors present the case against the
student, while the Defense acts as the advocate
of the accused. McNabb hopes “‘good people
will run for those elected positions,” since the
Board is such an important part of the Honor
Council’s check-and-balance system.

As always, academic internet plagiarism is
still a distinct problem on campus. The Council
will maintain its strict position of no tolerance.

The problem that is becoming increasingly
common to Davidson is specifically cases in-
volving the illegal sharing of music files. This is
a national concern as well; an article in the New

York Times on Sept. 9 stated that an estimated ©
60 million Americans download music off the .

internet. (See related story at right)

The Honor Council is struggling to find a
position on this complicated issue. One idea
McNabb had is to hold panels this year to
promote discussion with the student body. vis-
iting ethicists would be invited to the panels,
resulting in an informed public, which he feels
is essential before making any distinct deci-
sions on the Council’s view.

Also, on Oct. 19, the Council members are

going on aretreat specifically to discuss the file-
sharing issue and establish guidelines for pros-
ecution. McNabb said that as of this moment,
there is no real policy for downloading a small
amount of music files. He expects that the
student community has some sort of perspec-
tive as to what is clearly immoral or unaccept-
able.
Giving an example, he said, “T would hope
that students think that downloading Lord of the
Rings two days before it comes out in theaters is
wrong. Some things are clearly wrong.”

McNabb says Davidson students can expect
to see more of the Honor Council’s presence on
campus this year, not at the cost of privacy and
confidentiality, but instead through increased

student discussion and contribution. He hopes ©

that students will want to become involved in
the Board and the Council and will run in the
spring elections:

NEws

File sharing, from page 1

“We have not been targeted,” Casey assures,
but “in higher education, the subpoenas have
not béen resisted.” He explains that while a few
schools have objected purely on procedural
grounds, such as improper jurisdiction of sub-

.poenas, the RIAA has quickly addressed the
objections and moved forward.

Heexplains that although “‘anumberof ISPs...
are claiming constitutional and legal protec-
tions for their customers,” colleges aren’t in the
same position. It isn’t about “colleges and uni-
versities having pockets deep enough to take on
the RIAA,” Casey says, it’s whether they want

“to be “spending resources on something that

isn’t in line with their core mission.”

Casey hopes that a fledgling movement to
resist RIAA subpoenas on procedural or pri-
vacy protection grounds won’t give students “a
false sense of security.” When asked whether
the recent invocation of privacy rights to avoid
lawsuits will be effective, he says, “It’s nebu-
lous.”

That nebulosity extends to the “wrongness”
of the activity. Both Casey and philosophy
professor Lance Stell object to file sharing on
moral grounds.

“The ‘hard to get caught’ part isn’t what
makes it right or wrong,” says Stell, who pub-
lishes in ethics, medical ethics and ethics of the
law. “When your interests are in play, it’s hard
to be objective. When we are strongly moti-
vated—I want the damn recording and it’s easy
totake—we'’ re more attracted to arguments that
seem to cover that.”

One such argument is that independent bands
tend to encourage file sharing whereas more
established, financially secure acts denounce
the practice. -

To that point, Stell says, “The question is
whether the greed ingredient is significant or a
distraction. It’s true that one of the ways that you
can draw more attention from the public is to
give it away. [But] to defend your rights you
don’t have to defend your motive.”

Recording industry executives and musicians
“have a right to pursue their interests,” says
Stell. “Is it right to pursue them this way? Not
necessarily. Is it prudent? Probably not. Clamp-
ing down can be counterproductive, because
people are going to think the only thing wrong
is if they get caught.”

David Shelburne ’04 exemplifies this result.
“I have slowed down my downloading habits
with the recent surge of RIAA lawsuits. Ithasn’t
changed my attitude about what I’m doing. I
just don’t want to get sued.”

Shelburne acknowledges the legal storm
around file sharing but tries not to let it bother
him.“DoI think it’s stealing?” he asks. “I guess.
Idon’t feel guilty about doing it. It’s not like ’m
screwing over the little guy. Mp3 downloads
screw over the big boys, and personally, that’s
fine by me.”

Shelburne has over 25 GB of downloaded
music, “which is about 5,500 songs and over
300 full CDs,” he explains.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2003 | 3

After Napster closed, Shelburne says, he
switched to BearShare, then LimeWire, then
KaZaA. He now uses KaZaA Lite “and occa-
sionally WinMx.”

This adaptability of users and program writ-
ers is one of many obstacles facing anti-piracy
efforts.

According to Casey, RIAA efforts have

“pushed sharing underground.”

“The practical issue of the property right is
enforcement,” says Stell. “Enforcementis very,
very difficult.”

For campus enforcement, though, things are
a little easier.

ITS is not worrying about the morality of the
issue. “We really kind of police around the very
edges, we’re looking to only monitor student
behavior in extreme cases where there is risk to
the student orrisk to the institution,” says Casey.

For example, he explains, the school is taking
“measures to make sure this really expensive
resource we share isn’t taken over by any single
activity. We limit the percentage of bandwidth
for known downloading. We identify people
who are using more than their fair share and
notify them. If they fix it, all is forgiven.

“(There is a] presumption of personal respon-
sibility. The Honor Code is not about college
policing, it’s about the people needing to think
about and take responsibility.”

The Honor Council is, however, looking at
how file sharing will be interpreted under Honor
Code standards. As the Davidsonian reports
this week, the Council plans to educate the
community on the issues surrounding file shar-
ing.

But there won’t be any students brought
before the Honor Council on charges of stealing
music just yet.

“Until there are some very specific, tried and
tested court cases, it’s not going to be clear what
constitutes a violation [of the Honor Code],”
says President Bobby Vagt. “This is an evolv-
ing law, [and] the Honor Council is only en-
gaged if it’s determined to be stealing.”

Of course, Vagt says, “The more we learn
about it, the better off we’re going to be. Until
about two months ago, some students thought it
was a joke, or at least something that could be
avoided.”

That ambivalent attitude is exactly what
Casey hopes to discourage, but he understands
the many sides of the debate.

“Where are we going?” he says. “I don’t
know. There’s clearly a big disconnect in our
society, somewhat along the lines of age. The
younger generation has the disposable income,
and they were already alienated by the price of
CDs.”

RIAA tactics of “fear, uncertainty and doubt”
will likely, according to Casey increase that
alienation.

“(Recording industry executives] may feel
they don’t have a choice or they may just not get
it,” he says.

“But you can’t put the genie back in the
bottle.”

elphia Center

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working

and studying in Philadelphia! —
Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

www-philactr.edu

"euS: 745-7300

