THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS.

Jazz artist to visit this Friday

By CuristinE Haycook
Special Contributor

With the recent release of T.S. Monk’s new-

est recording, Higher Ground, the son of...

Thelonious Monk will perform his 11-nwsi-
cian, pulsating and dynamic show “MONK ON
MONK” this Friday in the Duke Performance
Hall at 8 p.m. The show is an 80th anniversary
birthday tribute to his father, but its musical
core comes from the sextet that the younger

- Monk. formed and with whom he currently |

performs.

T.S. Monk began his musical career before
the age of ten, when he received his first drum
set, and by the time he was in high school, he
had areputation as arabble-rouser. After gradu-
ation, he began playing and touring with his
father’s jazz trio, with which he played until
his father’s retiremént in 1975. The aspiring
musician then dove into the music, R&B, that
captivated his own generation.

It was not until 1992, when he formed his
own jazz sextet, that Monk received acclaim.
He has earned the New York Jazz Awards
“Recording of the Year” and Downbeat’s pres-
tigious “Reader’s Poll Award,” among many
others. Ed Keane reports that “critics and the
public lauded T.S. Monk as his father’s true
musical heir, as bandleader, and performer.”
Monk has played with some of music’s greats:
Natalie Cole, Herbie Hancock, Tony Bennett,
and Aretha Franklin. The New York Times says
that Monk has “done what few children of
cultural genius’ have done _ before

Monk performs Friday in Duke

him...forge[d] a successful, highly respected
career of his own.”

Also, he has gone beyond just performing
music. T.S. Monk focused his attention on
forming the Thelonious Monk Institute of Jazz
to honor his father’s legacy. The institute sup-
ports the efforts of education, creating pro-
grams that range from sponsoring music edu-
cation for students in the form of full scholar-
ships to funding and supporting after-school
athletic programs.

In addition to his performance on Friday
evening, Monk willhold an open lecture at 1:30
p.m. on Friday in Tyler-Tallman Hall. He will
speak about his father, the effects of jazz on
the community, a career in the arts, and com-
munity outreach programs.

Birkdale’ s frozen treats

By Lauren Law
Special Contributor

Within its fabricated village atmosphere,
Birkdale contains two frozen dessert shops.
Dolce Gelato Flavors of Italy has the feel of a
European cafe; across the “village green,” Cold
Stone Creamery offers an array of all-Ameri-
can ice cream that would make any patriot
proud.

Cold Stone’s small town, soda shop ambi-
ence exists only in towns like Davidson. Add
that to the pop radio in the background and the
all-American boys behind the counter, and the
place just feels like home.

The staff and I introduced ourselves to each
other. One worker introduced himself as David
Renzi.’“Renzi?” I asked, “Shouldn’t you be
working over at the Italian place?”

To this, Renzi, son of Ferdinand Salvalore
Renzi, Il, replied,“No way, this ice cream is
way better than that gelato stuff.”

To my surprise, his coworker, Drew Kelly,
piped in by saying, “Listen, we Italians know
our stuff. My mother’s maiden name is

Vaglicia, and another guy who works here is |

Italian, too, and we all think this place is better.
Besides, the only Italians over there are the
owners.” What makes three Italian youths so
certain that this Arizona-birthed brand of ice
cream is superior to authentic, Italian gelato?

STONE COLD CREAMERY
Sunday 1-10
Monday-Thursday 11-10
Friday-Saturday 11-11

DOLCE GELATO
Sunday-Thursday 11-10
Friday-Saturday 11-11

Cold Stone offers no less than 21 flavors and
45 toppings, or’“‘mixins.” Any combination,
the most popular of which is cake batter ice
cream with a graham cracker pie crust mixin,
may be purchased in the “like-it,””’““love-it,”
or “gotta-have-it” sizes, all under the rather
middling price of $3.59.”There are also low
calorie options, such as smoothies with low-
fat sorbet and non-fat mixins for comparable
prices.

End your expenditures by adding a tip to the
large glass jar, and you’ll soon be serenaded
(to the theme of the Addams Family) : “We’re
cheerful and we’ll holler/ because we got a
dollar/ We’re thankful cause we all are/ the
Coldstone Family...duh duh duh duh...snap,
snap.”

So how does this Italian-backed American
experience compare to the enticements of the
little Italy across the street? Alex, the man

On

WEDNESDAY SES TEMBeR 17,2003 6

working at Dolce Gelato, was adamant about
the superiority of Italian gelato. Luisa
Castiglioni of Milan'and Rudy Amadio of
Rome opened the shop in March of this year.

While the workers themselves are not Ital-
ian, Alex is convinced that the art of gelato has
not been lost in the cross-cultural translation.
He explained at length the making of gelato,
which involves the creation of a whipped tex-

ture without air bubbles. It produces a denser ~

consistency and, subsequently, a more vibrant
flavor.

These flavors, which range from “Fruits of
the Forest” to “Creme Caramel,” are all low in
fat because they are made with milk rather than
cream. In addition, many of the fruity flavors
are non-fat, made entirely without milk. Ready
with the appropriate statistics, Alex pointed out
that ina small gelato has six grams of fat, while
in atypical ice cream serving there are 17 grams.

To the detriment of the typically broke Wild-

CHE Cat WALK

‘How was your first night down?

Stee anes IPO ERLE TIT RE Ty a mer RD

cat, Alex made an effort to point out that al-
though gelato is slightly more expensive than
Cold Stone ice cream (a large being $4.25), the
delicacy is well worth the dollar.

However, this cost efficiency may not re-
flect the value of service (or at least entertain-
ment), because upon placing my dollar in the
tip basket, I received not a trite ditty, but rather
the stimulating opportunity to read the index
card which said, “Your tips are greatly appre-
ciated.”

So, what is to be said of our Italian confec-
tionery conundrum? Do we take the word of
Italian youths who prefer the Americanized
taste of high calorie mixins? Or do we rely on
the reported expertise of an American in an
authentic Italian shop? After an extensive taste
test ateach location - and the use of many “dirty
little sample spoons,” as they are referred to at
Cold Stone Creamery - I feel that there is only
one resolution: two desserts.

