Next women’s basketball a

Sophomore Callahan shoulders
scoring load for women’s hoops

By Erin DELK
Staff Writer

“Basketball isn’t just a part of your life, it is your life.”
Emily Callahan has been living out her own words here at
‘ Davidson , and the hard work is finally paying off. -

Named Southern Conference Player of the Week on Jan. 21,
Callahan averaged 29.5 points and 7.5 boards for the week.

In the ’Cats’ most recent outing against ETSU, she led the
team with 22 points and 7 rebounds.

However, Coach Watts insists that it is not only her scoring -
that should be receiving all of the attention: “Her all-around
floor game has improved dramatically, and she has remained
very focused throughout the season, which is sometimes
difficult for sophomores to do.”

As the second leading scorer on the team, averaging 11.7
points per game, Callahan hasn’t had time for a sophomore
slump.

Her fearlessness on the court and her ability to finish have
proved extremely valuable for the Wildcats in the past confer-
ence games, and have earned her considerably more playing
time.

As teammate and captain Bethany Schott says, “Emily has
been playing unbelievably well, but it’s no surprise to me or to
any of the other teammates because we’ve known she was
capable of these performances.”

Emily doesn’t attribute her recent success to individual
effort: “My scoring opportunities come as a result of team
execution, whether in a perfect pass or a strong screen.”

Although she is quick to thank the team, her 10 years on the
court are certainly an integral part of her success.

“My parents always encouraged sports, but never forced
them on me. I was allowed to choose what I wanted to play.”

Initially, she chose softball, volleyball, and basketball.

As she entered high school, Callahan decided to focus solely
on basketball and volleyball.

She played and excelled in both sports all four years, as she
was named Female Athlete of the Year at South Mecklenburg
both junior and senior years.

Her list of awards goes on, including all-conference junior

_and senior years for both basketball and volleyball, MVP
junior and senior year in basketball, and senior year in volley-
ball, and basketball captain junior and senior years.

_ She played on several different AAU teams, one of which
included fellow Davidson teammate Meghan Bryant, who
says, “even then you could see her potential for amazing
talent.” :

Her intense drive, particularly in basketball, did not stem
from the desire to emulate a star like Chamique Holdsclaw or
Michael Jordan, but from a motivation to prove the worth of
female sports.

“My main motivation in high school, besides proving to
myself that I could succeed, was proving to people, in particu-
lar the men’s basketball team, that women could play sports.

“The men’s players would come to our games only to
reassure themselves that they were better, and more important,
than us. The acceptance of women’s sports has gotten better,
but it definitely still needs some work.”

When it came time to decide where to attend college,
Callahan was faced with another decision: which sport to play
in college.

She chose basketball, even though she believes she was

Sports Spotlight
Emily
Callahan
6-0 Guard/Forward

SoCon Player of the
Week, Jan 21.

Year: Sophomore

Position: Forward
Hometown: Charlotte, NC

High School: South Mecklenburg

Women’s hoops coverage, page 10

Women rebound from loss at ETSU with home

win over College of Charleston.

better at volleyball.

Simply put, she “wanted a challenge,” and believed that the
coaches and players at Davidson would provide the best
environment for pursuing her goals, while still allowing her to
stay close to home.

Upon committing to Davidson, a challenge is what she got.

John Filar, former women’s head coach, resigned in the
spring of her senior year. Callahan remarks that “that summer
was full of uncertainty as the new coaches were being decided.

“They’ re supposed to be like your parents away from home,
so it was disheartening to see Coach Filar and his staff leave.”

But Callahan could not be happier with the current group of
coaches:“‘They are such-a positive influence, in particular
Coach Harris. She is so fiesty and emotional that it makes you
want to play even harder, just to see her face when you do
something right.”

Callahan credits not only the coaches for her smooth transi-
tion into college basketball, but also her teammates. “I think
this team is so unique from other college programs in that
everyone is such good friends, and is so supportive of other
teammates. SS nt

“Coming from high school basketball is always difficult
because the focus goes from physical to mental: how are you
going to handle the pressure, the new level of competition?

“My teammates have helped me so much, and are my
inspirations. They are who I play for, and what keeps me

going.”

He is very kare with ‘the. team’ 's progress, and he i is
especially pleased with the performance of his wrestlers,

“This is a phenomenal group of guys, and this team is truly
for real,” Jaworsky raves. “They have tremendous attitude
andeathusiasm. T expect big things i in the future from these
guys.”

Recently, in addition to a successful second season as head
coach, Jaworsky was named to the ACC’s All-Time Top 50
Athletes, an honor he accepts most humbly. a

“Tam just immensely flattered, ” he says, “and I consider it
an honor and a privilege just to be cir Maa among such
athletes as Michael Jordan Arnold Palmet.”

official win-loss record sa ‘collegiate Sereutler was 110-5.

He has been wrestling since age five and attributes much
of his success to his parents. _

He grew up in Oklahoma, and his dad wrestled for Okla-
homa State.

With great coaching and deittiainition: Jaworsky came to
be three-time national champion and All-American, and he
finished third in the 2000 U.S. Olympic trials.

As the Southern Conference tournament deaws near,
Jaworsky feels confident that his team will be ready. |

The Davidsonian..
er of the Week
Matt McKillop ‘oé

Men’‘s Basketball
Hometown: Davidson, North Carolina

Major: Undecided

the second

McKillop connected for six three-pointers in
alf en route to matching
high of 24 points in MomIsy?

Men’s Tennis vs. Queens

Rugby vs. Radford

his career-
81-

Men’s and Women’s Track and Field at Carolina Fast Times
Wrestling vs. Chattanooga, Duke
Men’s Tennis vs. Belmont Abbey

Women’s Basketball at Western Carolina
Men’s Basketball at Western Carolina

Women’s Basketball at Wofford

All Day
9:00 a.m.
12:00 p.m.
1:00 p.m.
1:30 p.m.
4:00 p.m.
7:00 p.m.

7:00 p.m.

7:00 p.m.
