8 _ Tae DavipsoniAN

| Worrying about
CIA Wilson-gate

Last year former diplomat James Wilson was sent by the CIA
on a now infamous trip to Niger to investigate supposed at-
tempted uranium sales to Iraq.

After coming up empty-handed, Wilson, who was none.too
fond of the war to begin with, wrote a scathing op-ed in the New
York Timeson July 6 ofthis year, criticizing President Bush for
mentioning the disputed uranium claims in
his State of the Union address.

A few weeks later, “Crossfire” host Rob-
ert Novak mentioned in his column that
Wilson’s wife, Valerie Plame, was an “op-
erative” in the CIA. He wrote that “senior
administration officials” had given him this
information.

Now, in the past few weeks, the U.S. po-
litical scene has been rocked by allegations
that the Bush administration deliberately at-
tempted to discredit Wilson by leaking his wife’s identity to the
press, and in the process broke federal law and endangered
national security by compromising the anonymity of Plame,
supposedly an undercover CIA agent.

Newspapers and cable channels have jumped all over the
case, proclaiming it a scandal of massive proportions.

You are probably wondering if you have misunderstood
something. You did not.

It does not make sense. Why does the fact that Wilson’s wife
works in the CIA discredit him? Could it be an attempt to show
that Wilson only got his job because of his wife’s influence?
That is possible, but it seems like a weak gesture; if the admin-
istration really wanted to commit character assassination against
Wilson, they probably could have dug up something dirtier than
his wife’s nepotism.

Contrary to the accusations directed at the Presidency, there
is no certainty that acrime has been committed. For the leakage
to be illegal under the 1982 Intelligence Identities Protection
Act, the agent whose identity is willfully compromised must be
“covert” and “serving outside the United States or has within
the last five years served outside the United States.

There is no solid evidence that Plame was operating covertly
or serving abroad. She may merely be a CIA analyst, as Novak
now contends. We simply do not know yet.

But many pundits and journalists have given no quarter to
the reality of the-situation, with no facts to back up their exag-
gerated statements. They gleefully jump to the conclusion that
the Bush administration “has turned to weapons of personal
destruction,” as the always fair and balanced Maureen Dowd
wrote in her column.

Wilson himself proclaimed that senior Bush adviser Karl
Rove should be arrested, though he has since backed away from
this egregious claim; he now says Rove merely “condoned” the
leak.

CNN’s Wolf Blitzer said “we're talking about Watergate,
maybe.”

Much like the analogy of Iraq to Vietnam, there is no factual
basis, at least yet, to compare the leakage to Watergate. We do
not even know the identity of the leaker, much less that he or
she was in cahoots with the President, Rove, or anyone.

There may be a day when enough facts are known for
Wilsongate to merit the front page. But the media refuses to
wait for that day, thrusting allegations and rumors into the lime-
light.

Once again, scandal and intrigue rule the American political
scene, and the media is only too happy to help.

MATT BANDYK

_ByMsveNwe
Guest Columnist

Two Sundays ago, Sept. 28, 2003, three fellow students told
me that they had noticed two locations on campus in which the
‘letters KKK were spray-painted.

I immediately went to check it out and took pictures of these
paintings for evidence. ‘

I took-the pictures of the spray paintings because I felt as if
this was anincidence that could not be overlooked by this school
because another incident such as this had already occurred this
year.

The theme for second Belk this year was “Schwarzenegger”
headquarters.

Several students noticed on the second weekend of school
that the “Schwarze” had been torn off, and that the “e” had been
replaced so that it read “nigger headquarters.” To be honest,
these signs and painting didn’t bother me that much.

What teally worried me was trying to figure out what people
really feel like. I will be the first to say that I honestly do believe
that the majority of the students on this campus are not racist
or hate mongers at all.

What bothered me was that while I was outside taking the
pictures of the KKK paintings, I noticed many people walking
by me. I only saw three people that actually stopped, noticed
what was written, and had a reaction to it. Others walked by,
saw what I was taking a picture of and walked away without
hesitation.

While this may seem an insignificant incident, it honestly
made me question what was going through their minds.

Another aspect of this KKK incident that has bothered and

sia in i aes title nba tin tome

drunken person trying to pull a prank, or that it was someone
from off-campus that did this. >
Does the fact that this might have been a prank or that it might
have been someone from off-campus make it Idss disturbing?
' Ifit were someone from off-campus oradrunken prank, then
how to explain the incident that occurred’on second Belk.

I cannot even fathom telling prospec-
tive students to come to this school.

Anytime that something happens that is deemed to be preju-
dice in any way the school always loves to hold forums about
these incidents. The problem with these forums is that the wrong
people always show up, and nothing ever gets accomplished.

I am tired of talking and only talking.

If this school were really dedicated to addressing the prob-
lems of hate, and prejudice it really needs to take a look at itself.
It is very funny to hear how happy the admissions office is with
the number of black students this year. This was the largest
freshman class in Davidson history with around 500 students
and the school was pleased with having only 29 of them being’
African-American.

To be honest, I cannot even fathom telling prospective stu-
dents to come to this school.

I have seen how the school has reacted to actual acts of rac-
ism and not just signs and symbols of prejudice and hate.

How am I supposed to also support and sell a school that is
elated to have a 5.8 percent African-American population in
their freshmen class?

There is alot going on right now—both around the world and
at Davidson. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict continues to burn,
the situation in mira is tense, many Davidson students, includ-
ing myself, underwent the hell of the LSATs
this weekend. To top it-all off, someone
spray paintéd “KKK” on campus.

With all of these interesting topics, [had
a tough time deciding on which subject I
would grace the campus with my brilliant
insight.

However, as I simultaneously watched
football and several bad movies on cable
this afternoon (including “The Substitute
3: The Winner Takes All”), athought shone
through the fog that is my brain: everyone
should watch more bad movies.

To provide a bit of background, you have to understand both
my love for horrible movies and the utter-awfulness that “The
Substitute 3” embodied.

The movie revolved around a former mercenary turned do-
gooder substituting as an English professor at a college. There,
he learns of a steroid drug ring involving the college football
coach. With a swift kick, some revisionist Vietnam art history,
anda large gun, the killer turned teacher sends the bad guys into
the afterlife.

Let’s just say that it was a thoroughly horrible movie.

Surprisingly, I thoroughly enjoyed it.

I love bad movies. Van Damme and Seagal are two of my
favorite actors. Well, actors may be too strong a word. They are
two of my favorite performers.

Ridiculous amounts of explosions and random fighting keep

MIKE GALDO

the story moving and the piss-poor dialogue keeps me laugh-
ing. What more can you want from a movie?

Now, don’t get me wrong. Movies like “The Royal
Tenenbaums” are far superior. I will always take good acting
and good writing over poop.

However, there is very little material flowing out of Holly-
wood that does not have a bit of a stench. If lam going to watch
something bad lam going to watch something thatis REALLY
bad.

‘Why go halfway? A mediocre movie teases you along with
hopes that it will be something more. Imagine having to watch
“The Replacements” or “It Could Happen To You” over and
over again.

Yet, Van Damme could write his own script to a movie and
it would still be fun. It may only be fun because it is awful, but
it is still fun.

Perhaps it’s lowered expectations. You would expect some-
one like Seagal to make a movie as bad as “The Postman,” not
Academy Award winning Kevin Costner.

Anyways, my point is this: revel in the stupidity of others.
Let yourself enjoy that some people just suck enough at life that
they will spend millions of dollars to make bad movies. Then,
wallow in the fact that you are both dumb and smart enough to
enjoy watching them..

Stupidity in real life is frustrating, but watching people per-
form it on TV is entertainment.

After all, remember that a group of executives had to gather
in aroom and read the script to “The Substitute 3 ” before it was
made. That alone makes me laugh for a couple of hours. -

I don’t know about everyone else, but surviving Davidson
makes me appreciate every bit of laughter I can find.

Sudden freshman syndrome hones more than just laundry skills

By Darcie Draupt
Staff Columnist

Well, itis October. I have just finished my first whole month
of college and all Ihave to say is, “Hello? Davidson?71’ m here!
No, seriously—I do exist on this campus.”

So, yeah, Iam a freshman. And for the first time in a long
time, I am anonymous. ;

When the Davidsonian asked for articles from the “freshman
perspective,” I had two words for them: identity crisis.

I have come to that point where-college | has stopped being a
summer camp with lots of reading and has turned into its true
form: difficult work accompanied by virtual anonymity.

I know—chill, Darcie. It has only been a month and I have

a long way to go, but it really i is hard not to suffer from first
’ impression anxieties. Wait. Did I say “first faa
afraid of my lack of an impression.

For the entire span of my college career—the ae time ithas
been—my class has put people inempty boxes.

First it started with “name and place” introductions. Then we
freshmen found the next step of conversation: weather and
dialects. Seriously, folks. I have had way too many conversa-

- tions about how 60 degrees is not cold and how the word “Coke”
applied to every kind of carbonated beverage makes no sensé.
My anonymous identity-searching self has now alienated the
Independent Sovereign of Texas.
Since Hurricane Isabelle we have moved to categorizing the
such-and-such-sport player, the insert-religion-here kid, or the
this-genre-of-creativity girl.

Adaptation ain’t that bad. In fact, it is
quite enjoyable.

I ‘guess meeting so many people encourages these empty
categories, but—and this might just be me—I hate to think of
the stories people might tell of a certain awkward curly-haired
girl who knocks over milk glasses when shaking nanils over a
Commons table introduction. 2

At this point, my spastic column may lead you to draw the

most important conclusion anyone could make ra me: this :

Darcie girl is ahuge dork... -
Because Davidson students do not know my bithony, and do

‘not know my whole personality, I have learned the importance

of myself on a smaller scale, just as I have learned the impor-
tance of the waffle iron at Commons. Small scale, yes. Big
mmm? Definitely. Waffles with chocolate chips. ..the quality’
way to the Freshman Fifteen.

Anyway, over the past two weeks or so, I’ve been learning
how to redefine myself, not in the eyes of others, but for me. I
am trying to adapt to my new old self—same personality, less
trimmings.

And, my comrades, adaptation ain’t that bad. In fact, it is
quite enjoyable.

For once, Ido not have to be the serious leader anymore. I can

_ be the random dorky freshman. I can go to Super Target (pro-

nounced “Seuww-pairrr Tar-zhay,” mind you) on a Saturday
night for fun. I can go to 30 minutes of a semi-formal dateless
in my hot attire of a$2 WalMart tube top andred lipstick. Ican -
have a self-proclaimed weekend of solitude for abit of me-time
when the girls on my hall leave for a weekend retreat. I am
growing into the self-proclaimed dork I am destined to be:

- While this 3 all seems negative, I ety Hning solace i in
my anonymity-centered crisis. ne

So, we will see what happens - Wait for my next column. By
that time, maybe I will havea solid freshman identity,

