By Lucy Lonc

Staff Writer

Rock climbing has been the up and coming
sport for outdoor enthusiasts looking for the
ultimate challenge. Climbing has evolved from
early expeditions across Europe, to the first free
climb in 1869 in the U.S on Cathedral Peak, to
the nationwide phenomenon of indoor climb-
ing gyms. Climbing equipmentalone has turned
this sport into a fierce industry of technical gear
and outfitting. But beneath all the carabiners,
procams, chocks, daisy chains, pitons, wallnuts,
peenuts and nut extractors, you will find a sport
that’s one-of-a-kind. It’s you and the mountain:
a sport where you compete with only yourself
and your mind. Climbing is about choosing
your goals and taking it at your own pace.

The Lingo

For those who don’t really know much about
the sport, here are some basic terms you need to
be familiar with:

Aid Climbing - when the climber depends on
rope equipment to support his/her own weight
and to assist in upward movement

Bouldering - climbing rocks/walls without
the assistance of a rope and using a “crash pad”
(foam filled mat) to break your fall

Free Climb - strictly using the rock to climb
while the rope and equipment is used only for
protection purposes, unlike aid climbing where
you are dependant on rope support to assist you

ui the alk fice: foe Ging is «icin
included in sport climbing, top ig and trad
climbing :
Free Solo - wall climbing you would typi-
cally use a rope with, but you aren’t using any
equipment for protection; more advanced than
bouldering
Pitch-asection ofaclimb typically measured
by the length of a climbing rope (165 ft)
Sport Climbing - lead-climbing routes (where
you are climbing ahead of the rope) using pre-
drilled bolts in the wall to secure the rope and
break your fall; focuses on technical moves
rather than gear placement and route finding
Top Roping - using anchor system created
above the climb; allows the climber to ascend
the wall with protection coming from the top
(this is the ideal climbing method for beginners)
Traditional/Trad Climbing - when the
climber places his or her own gear into the rock
face as he/she ascends; trad climbing is riskier
than sport climbing because there aren’t pre-
drilled bolts to allow the support of large falls;
the key to trad climbing is the mastering of gear
placement into the rock face and the use of
advanced equipment

Getting Started

Never climbed before and ready to test it out?

- First place to go is Davidson Outdoors. Two big

bonuses: it’s free and it’s on campus. Head
down for some beginner climbing lessons on
bouldering, belay procedures, and basic climb-
ing techniques. D.O. has an assortment of shoes,
harnesses and helmets for student use on or off
campus. The climbing wall has routes ranging
from beginner to advanced, either for top roping
or bouldering. If you are interested in bouldering
in the area, Davidson Outdoors can point out
some good sites around Lake Norman. D.O.
climbing wall hours are Monday through Fri-
day 3:30-5:30 p.m., and Monday through Thurs-
day 7-9 p.m.

If you’re hooked, check out Inner Peaks in
Charlotte for a more extensive climbing gym.
They have 8,000 square feet of climbing walls,
40 top rope stations for belay, obstacles such as
arches and roofs and three long cracks for
mastering the moves. A single day pass costs
$13, while full equipment rental including
climbing shoes, harness, belay device, chalk
bag and a helmet costs $7. Money saving tip: the
first Wednesday of each month is College Night
when you get a single day pass including a

*Efiiyou tate: iplaitning: ste -ea +
o Efiiyollstibegving tp, be

*
b4b3-> be tna sn

ieisadsn.

aber Lee ss Re bY Abe

onia: we aK

Se ee

ive Rapes.

juklein@davidson. edu.

ployed in. the anes OR
e fiyey:are_attendingcldsses at iUNICC..

Yan SEEM Fits 4

SPM fi i a
 shaleha-teaintiad

Davidson. can fretiteRausing For. thes éntire- summer or
<pagis in the Martin Courg ; Apartine ents, at
ie includesutilities ; cable

Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341 or

ésedhth/work-on : carpus OR

mieten eet k

ithe Gas bocce?

eR ERA

URESZSE SA:

os ORS

rs f ye sik ae: cote TEI,
Ag Ff Pee J ” CEES.

- f: See ee ed

sp iae. ‘Es remarr ys” or x

Epriv vate, bedrooms:
ling for~-all-Fauh

ye a Es a
NE eee
: LS: oe mH

NY Ns) aan REE

Facieciscias Sep

ees ncgih Thersisaone-timefee of $5 to

get the required Inner Peaks belay lesson on
your initial visit. Check out innerpeaks.com for
more information on memberships and hours
of operation. When you’re comfortable with
your climbing movement inside the gym, then
you’re ready to get outdoors.

Outdoor Climbing

For the more experienced, the Blue Ridge
Mountains have some of the best climbing in
the East. Grab your gear and get on the road for
some extreme North Carolina climbing action:

Crowder’s Mountain - Located just outside
Charlotte, and is often called “Crowded Moun-
tain;” its proximity fo the city brings in lots of
hikers and climbers on the weekends. It’s more
of a hill than a mountain with an elevation of
1625 feet, but it’s also a great way to escape for
a day trip. Crowder’s has fun, short climbs that
are great for top roping as a result of trail access
to the tops and bottoms of many climbs. There
are also some sport climbing spots.

Linville Gorge - Located in Linville. Falls,
it’s considered the Grand Canyon of North
Carolina. Table Rock is where you want to be
climbing with moderate experience because of
its short approaches and easy retreats. It’s eas-
ily accessible, has some bolts and anchors at
frequented belay sites, and good multi-pitch
routes for trad climbing.

Looking Glass Rock - Located in Brevard;
it’s nicknamed the “eyebrow” for the slashes
found on the surface of these domed shaped
rocks. This rock has climbs for beginners
through experts with some faces that are over
500 feet high. The South Face of Looking Glass
has a few one or two pitch climbs, while the
Nose contains more difficult multi-pitch tradi-
tional climbs.

Whiteside Mountain - Located in the High-
lands, Whiteside is really where you get your
feet wet offering the toughest climbing in North

Carolina, The cliffs here are around 700 feet,
with an elevation of 4,930 feet. Some of the aid
and free routes are as long as ten pitches; this
mountain is only for the ia bs cir trad
climber!

You'll need a-full rack of gear for Linville
Gorge, Looking Glass Rock and Whiteside
Mountain. For further information on access,
needed equipment and route suggestions, look
into the following guidebooks: “The Climbers
Guide to North Carolina” by Thomas Kelley;
“Selected Climbs in North Carolina” by Yon
Lambert; “Southern Rock” by Chris Hall.

Climbing is a great way to meet new people,
test your strength, and develop team skills.
Nothing feels better than making it to the top, so
climb on!

DON'T LEASE
UNTIL YOU SEE US!

$459 Special

on our spacious -
1 BR apartments!

1 mile off I-77 & Exit 30
near Davidson College
Hurry! They're going fast!

704-892-1859

835 Beaty Street
Davidson, NC 28036

What Do You Think?

What’s your opinion of the RLO lottery?

“T think it’s unfair to get a bad number two
years in a row, but one good aspect of the

, lottery is that you get to know who will be
living near you.”

“It’s pretty random, but it seems fair enough
for my class.”

“It could be frustrating because you might
have a plan, but you could lose the room you
want before you have a chance to get it.”

“I got the last number, but it had to happen
to somebody. I guess it’s kind of like the
Iditarod race: there you get a prize for being
the last to finish, and I just get quoted by the
Davidsonian.”

a

Paul Wyatt ’05

Katie Cox ’06

Christian Rothenbach ’06

Mary Fulton ’06

