CAvirus OniCcH bLoOrrEr

1/09/03 Chambers Larceny of a document camera
_ Unknown persons(s) removed the document camera without consent. Camera is valued at
$3,287. ;

1/13/03 Library Larceny of a chemistry book

Unknown person(s) willfully removed a chemistry book from the basement of the library
without the owner’s consent. Total loss is $120.

1/15/03 Guest House Area Suspicious Person

A suspicious person was reported to campus police early in the morning. He was contacted
near the Guest House, where he stated that he was there to take pictures of the house.

After a series of questions by the officer on the scene, it was determined that the man was
a photographer from Boone and had come to town for a bike race which had occurred three
days prior. Further investigation revealed that the man had been andering around Davidson
without knowing how to get home.

Campus police transported him to Lake Norman Regional Medical Center, where it was
discovered that the.man had a previously undiagnosed brain disorder.

1/15/03 Residence Hall Possession of Marijuana

Identified student was found in Possession of marijuana and has been charged within the
College.

1/18/03 Hart senior apartment Alcohol Violation

Student was extremely intoxicated and was taken to Lake Norman Regional and later
released.

1/18/03 Patterson Court Alcohol Violation
Student was extremely intoxicated and fell on shaving cream that was on the floor in one of
the houses. Student was taken to Lake Norman Regional and later released.

Thinking About Your Summer Plans?

Apply to bea
Summer Conference Assistant or
Summer Resident Advisor

: Pick up your application today in RLO.
Deadline is February 14, 2003 @ Spm

Interviews: February 17-21".
Notification: February 28%

Questions?
Contact Kristy Dudley
atx2140l

TIMBER: One of the three trees the school lost fell in front of Belk.

Ice storm clean-up costs
could surpass $50,000

By Matt GaArFIELD
Editor

- The worst winter storm in recent Carolinas
history began innocently enough, with after-
noon snow showers blanketing the ground and
allowing snowball fights and sledding runs to
break out across the Davidson campus.

Butby the time it was over, no one was having
fun. ‘

A peaceful snowfall soon turned into a crip-
pling ice storm, causing trees to crash to the
ground and knocking out power to more than
two million residents across the Southeast.

Davidson wasn’t spared. College officials
say repair costs could total more than $50,000,
most of that related to tree damage.

Only three large trees fell under the weight of

the ice, but nearly all sustained significant dam-
.age. None caused any major injuries—but

barely.
One student received minor scrapes when a

' tree near the front of the Union toppled on

Thursday morning.

Another large tree next to Cannon Hall fell
just short of the Belk dorm —sparing sleeping
students inside from what could have been a
disaster.

“That one probably disturbed me the most. I
think it was the most significant of all. (But) for
a campus with as many trees as this one, that’s
pretty lucky,” said Joy Cleary, the Physical
Plant grounds supervisor.

Physical Plant employees began arriving at
11 p.m. on the night of the storm, and some
worked for 36 straight hours to restore power to
several key buildings, including Richardson
and Belk dorms, and Vail Commons, said David
Holthouser, director of the Physical Plant.

“Seventy-five percent of them were here
working when their own families were without
power,” said David Holthouser.

“The gang was very loyal to the College, and
really put in the extra effort, really when they
should’ ve been home.”

Workers were able to restore power to Cham-
bers Building by the next morning, ensuring
that classes could continue as scheduled.

“The campus has a long history of not cancel-
ing class,” said Holthouser. “After Hurricane
Hugo, classes were only canceled for one day.
I guess unless it’s pitch dark, classes go on.”

With power restored to most other buildings
by afternoon, workers turned their attention to
removing dangling limbs and debris scattered
across campus—a project that has yet to be
completed.

“Tt’s an ongoing process and probably will be
for the next year,” said Cleary. ;

An e-mail circulated across campus inviting
students to pitch in with the initial clean-up
efforts. More than 50 turned out, and Cleary
credits them with speeding the painstaking pro-
cess.

“T was very pleased with how it went,” she
said. “It was so heartening, a real boost to my
crew.”

Townspeople without power in their homes
gravitated toward the warmth and activity of
Alvarez College Union on Thursday night,
prompting some observers to dub it “Alvarez
Refugee Center.”

The dining services staff catered a campus-
wide hot meal in the Knobloch Campus Center
on Thursday night, since Vail Commons and

‘most Patterson Court eating houses were with-

out adequate power.

“One of the good things that came out of (the
storm) was that the Union became a ‘commu-
nity’ community center,” said College Presi-
dent Bobby Vagt.

-College Communications contributed to this
report.

:
H

H
|
|
i
e

Belk dormitory is blanketed in ioe following the winter storm.
