e

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

@ ALENDA LU

¥ ae .
4

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 22, 2003

VoLuME 94, NUMBER 12

Quick sellout
expected for
Dave show

By Matr GarFIELD
Editor

When William Brown says the Dave
Matthews show will be the biggest concert
event in Davidson history, he’s including some
pretty select company.

A virtual “who’s who” list of performers
have played at Davidson over the decades,
ranging from Ray Charles, The Temptations
and Chicago in the 1960s and 70s to The Police
and Phish in the 80s and 90s.

But none equaled the star power of Matthews
for one simple reason, says Brown, Director of
the Union for nearly 30 years.

“‘We’ve never had an artist who was at the
very height of their career,” he said.

When Matthews, arguably the most popular
alternative musician of the past decade, an-
nounced last fall that he would embark on a 12-
show college tour with guitarist Tim Reynolds
inMarch. and. April, more than 300 schools
entered the bidding war, said Lee Ann
Bannerman, Assistant Director of Union Pro-
grams.

So how did Davidson, with an enrollment of
only 1,600 students, manage to get chosen?

“T’ve had people from all over saying, ‘Holy
cow. How’d you do that?’” said Bannerman.
“It’s getting national attention.”

She said the winning formula included three
key parts: First, the school has a close relation-

see Dave, page 4

RENT opens
for 2-day run

Some tickets still available

By ROLAND Foss
Staff Writer

Davidson’s Ticket Office has made more
tickets available for the musical RENT, which
will take place in the Duke Family Performance
Hall tonight and Thursday at 8 p.m.

However, the options for seating are slightly
unconventional. One option is to purchase
standing-room-only tickets for $30. 35 tickets
are available for each night. _

Another option is the block of tickets that the
Ticket Office will sell through a lottery the
afternoon of each performance. Respecting a
RENT tradition, at which each venue reserves
a certain amount of discounted seats for same-
day sale, the Ticket Office will be offering

twenty-six first and second-row orchestra seats

for just $20.

Lee Ann Bannerman, Assistant Director for
Union Programs, outlines the method by which
Davidson College students, faculty, and staff
can purchase these tickets. Between four and
six o-clock of the day of the show, the Ticket
Office will give out numbers. At 6:15, numbers

see RENT, page 3

The Davidson Icemen

Nearly every tree on campus was damaged. See story, page 2.

Students join protesters to
rally against war in Iraq

25 students brave chilly weather in D.C. protests

By NICOLE MADER
Special Contibutor

Davidson students concerned about the pos-
sibility of war with Iraq went to Washington to
join a group of demonstrators from around the
United States in this nation’s capital.

Friday afternoon a group of several students,
faculty, staff, and local newscasters gathered to
send off the 25 protesters attending the peace
rally this past Saturday in Washington, D.C.
Local news affiliates of Fox and CBS inter-
viewed several of the students to hear their
thoughts on the war before they drove off that
afternoon.

The students made the seven-hour drive late
into the night, finally arriving at the house of
Jessica Carlson ’06, who lives just outside the
city. In the morning, they walked together to the
Metro to head towards Judiciary Square, the
closest, stop to the Capitol building, located at
the end of the large grassy square known as the
National Mall.

Blocks away the murmur of the crowds could
already be heard and the excitement of the rally
filled the air. Banners and signs undulated with
the crowd and the speakers’ voices boomed
from the stage and the scattered amplifiers.
Among the two-hours of speakers were Rev.
Jesse Jackson, Rev. Al Sharpton, actor Jessica
Lange, Congressman John Conyers, Vietnam
veteran and activist Ron Kovic, andformer U.S.
Attorney General Ramsey Clark. Interspersed
with the speeches were rousing chants led by
coordinators and even the speakers themselves,
like the Rev. Jesse Jackson’s call, “It’s peace
time! It’s hope time!”

But the protestors themselves were an attrac-
tion on their own. The recent media coverage on
the quantity of people at the rally varies from
tens of thousands to five hundred thousand, but
one recurring observation has focused on the
diversity of the protestors. Throughout the
crowd in every direction were college students
next to: senior citizens, families next to anar-
chists, musicians next to businesspeople, to-
gether representing a microcosm of the Ameri-
can people. ;

Also diverse were the messages portrayed on

eR

Photo by Nicole Mader
Jonathan Wu ’04 moves up in life.

the myriad of banners and signs. The wide.

range of sentiments included: “Peace is Patri-
otic,” “Money for Jobs, Not for War,” “No
Blood for Oil,” and “Stop the Illegitimate
President’ s Illegitimate War.” While some held
American flags upside down, others, including
the Davidson group, waved the flag right side
up and held high their symbolic contribution to
the visual dialogue.

As the rally drew to a close, the protesters
started on the path towards the Naval Yard. The
two-mile walk took more than four hours be-
cause of the methodical, deliberative pace of the
crowd, and all the scenery of uniformed officers
and of the both cheering and jeering onlookers
could be taken in.

Nearing the end of the day and the march, the
Davidson group was exhausted, bitterly cold,
but heartened and optimistic. Kendal Stewart
06 is trying to hold onto that emotion: ““We felt
a strong sense of hope—a harmony with each
other and with everyone there—and I want to
bring that spirit back to Davidson.” With con-
tinued dialogue and discussion from the pro-

. testers and students on both sides of the issue,

she and others believe they will.

basketball updates, plus a look at Davidson’s

RLO presents
two options
for Martin Ct.

By CAROLINE K. HAUSER
Managing Editor

When the class of 2003 got its housing assign-
ments last spring, there was “a lot of confusion
and a lot of concern,” said Leslie Marsicano,
Director of Residence Life. In an effort to dispel
that confusion and assuage that concern,
Marsicano and her RLO team met with rising
seniors last night to explain two options being
considered for this year’s Martin Court housing
assignments.

Assignment Process. A

The first option, Assignment Process A, is
“essentially the same as before,” said Marsicano,
“but clearer and more precise.” Under Process
A, senior-only groups would be processed first
and assigned apartments in order of the com-
bined total lottery number of the roommates.
Students would be able to cluster in groups of
two aparments—that is, two four-person groups
could choose to live as near each other as
possible.

Under Process A, RLO exercises some con-
trol in placement, considering gender, social
affiliation (membership in eating houses or fra-
ternities) and students’ behavioral record in the
residence halls as factors in the assignments.

“If you have a history of dropping bottles
from your window on third Sentelle,” explained
Marsicano, “we'll give you an apartment, but
we’ ll offer you a very nice first floor apartment.”

A specific change from last year would give
students the option of listing as many apartment
choices as they’d like, rather than the traditional
10. Last year, 46 of the 62 groups got apartments
listed in their 10 choices.

Assignment Process B

Assignment Process B was formulated in
response to students’ concerns about the “pu-
rity” of the lottery system. Upon receiving hous-
ing applications, RLO would designate gender
to specific apartments according to demand.

see Senior housing, page 4

INSIDE THIS WEEK

‘News -4
Former Virginia Gov. Douglas Wilder
highlights King holiday celebration.

Arts & Living 5-6
Check out our new feature entitled “What
Do You Think?”

Perspectives 7-8
Is the Dave Matthews worth the price we’re
paying for him?

Sports 9-10 |

Get caught up with men’s and women’s

own Jiu-Jitsu competitor.

