The

JB

First CLass
U.S. PostaGe Pap
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

somtan

@ “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2003

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 3

Hello Friend:
Cosby plays to
packed house

By Matt GarFIELD
Editor

Bill Cosby’s trip to Belk Arena didn’t go
quite as the Union Board had planned, but once
the legendary comedian got here, he gave a
near-capacity audience of 4,500 about 90 min-
utes of classic Cosby humor, mixing wise-
cracks about growing up with serious advice
about life for young people.

Concert Committee Chairperson Liz Smith
’04 intended to meet Cosby’s private jet at
Concord Regional Airport on Tuesday after-
noon to accompany him to campus. But after
Cosby didn’t arrive at the appointed time, she
soon got a cell phone call telling her that his
plane had instead landed at Charlotte Douglas
International Airport, 25 minutes away.

Luckily they were able to meet in Charlotte
and make it to Davidson in plenty of time for
the show.

Dressed in a Davidson sweatshirt, gray
sweatpants, socks and sandals, Cosby took the

see Cosby, page 6

Alcohol citations up 88% over last fall

Are students partying
more or is Campus
Safety cracking down?

By JosEPH TAYLOR AND SARAH-GRACE WESLEY
Staff Writers

Data collected by Public Safety reflects an
88 percent increase thus far for fall 2003 over
the entire fall 2002 semester. Stricter enforce-
ment of alcohol policies is considered as a lead-
ing cause in the jump.

The number of alcohol violations distributed
by Campus Safety to date this-year is 32. In fall
2001, 14 violations were issued; in spring 2002,
4 were issued; in fall 2002, 17 were issued. Zero
documented alcohol violations were issued by
Public Safety in spring 2003.

Police enforcement is being called the most
influential factor in this increase.

Lt. Jim Lyon, Assistant Director of Public
Safety notes, “Statistics are reflective not nec-
essarily on the students’ attitudes and percep-
tions about alcohol, just on our consistent en-
forcement.”

He feels that enforcement in the past—be-
fore Fountain Walker, Director of Public
Safety, arrived—was not as consistent as it is
now, and this consistency accounts for the in-
crease in citations given out and not necessar-
ily an increase in the number of students drink-
ing.

Walkercommented on the policy, which has
become knownas the “Solocup” policy, refer-
ring to the brand of plastic cups used at parties.
Under the policy, officers will not approach an
underage student with an unmarked cup to
check the contents unless the student is behav-
ing in an unsafe manner.

see Alcohol, page 2

The back of a Patterson Court house after a recent night of partying

Less lounges means less bonding
Crunch causes RLO to begin rethinking no-cable policy

By CARRINGTON SKINNER

Staff Writer

Most students are aware of the difficulties
the school is faced with because of this year’s
overpopulation. Seven of the school’s 34
lounges in residence halls are currently being
used as bedrooms this semester, forcing many
to use lounges that are not on their halls.

The RLO and SGA have been working to-
gether to find compromises so that student
amenities and housing can both be accommo-
dated. This task has proved daunting, as ex-
pansion of lounges and other student-requested

Library adjusts to Patriot Act
pieces the feds track student research at E. H. Little?

- BY Sania RoBINSON
Staff Writer

During the recent protests ofthe USA PA-

TRIOT Act, vars people | have pointed out

; St une mencomlavcan
to terrorist investigations. With towns op-
posing the actandcalling it unconstitutional,
ee

The question to most Americans remains:
How does this affect me? For most Ameri~
cans, section 215 allows the government to

“gain access to certain records, in libraries or ~

businesses, which could targetcertain infor-
mation that could be used against the U.S. --
~ Section 215 states that for each applica-
tion “shall specify that the: records con-
cerned are sought for an authorized inves-
tigation conducted in accordance with sub-
section (a)(2) to obtain foreign intelligence
information not concerning a United States

see Patriot, page 4

services come at a high cost.

“With more students than ever needing on-
campus housing, we can’t afford to reassign
bedroom space to other uses,” explains Dean
Leslie Marsicano, Director of RLO. “That is,
we can’t make more lounges, kitchens, or bike
storage if that means we lose bedrooms for 6 or
10 or 20 students.”

Marsicano has asked the SGA to create a
committee to explore what amenities students
would prefer so that they can be a part of the
plan as construction and renovation of resi-
dence halls continues.

Some students have expressed frustration
over the lack of lounges and hope that there
will be some type of remedy to the situation in
the near future. Gavin Taylor ’06 believes that
having fewer lounges this year has hurt the
community atmosphere.

“Last year my lounge was great. There were
always people in-there watching a game or
trashy. TV or something, and it was a place
where everybody got to know each other,” said
Taylor. “We don’t have a lounge at all, except
for the one we share with the girls downstairs.
I still don’t know some of the guys on my new
hall, and I don’t consider it a coincidence.”

Some students also believe that the lounge
crisis has created an ideal situation for the ad-
dition of cable television to dorm rooms.
Sophomore SGA President Jack Hubbard ’06
is continuing his crusade to provide cable to
rooms. Hubbard believes that if students have

‘see Lounge, page 2

Men’s soccer

takes crown
at Vanderbilt

tourney

SPORTS, PAGE 10

Cannon brews
up fun times
in Mooresville

Aa, PAGE 6

Mabe weighs
in on cafe
controversey

PERSPECTIVES , PAGE 7
