Staff Editorial
Extend rights to all

“*... with all the rights and privileges appertaining thereunto.”
As nearly 400 seniors cross the graduation stage in May, mak-
ing the transition from students to alumni, this phtase will most
likely not be given a second thought.

As expansive and inspirational as the phrase may seem, how-
ever, it makes no reference to the limitations alumni face with
the current trustee religion requirements. -

As The Davidsonian reports this week, the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board of Trustees decided to explore the relevance
of the religion requirement by appointing a committee to ex-
plore the issue and make a recommendation to the entire Board
as early as the annual October meeting.

While the progress may seem painstakingly gradual - one
committee has appointed yet another committee to look into
the issue? — the crucial step may have been taken to create a
school that truly embraces individuals of all religions equally.

While this requirement may be emblematic of the College’s
Presbyterian roots, today it seems simply archaic. Davidson is
a more diverse school racially, religiously and geographically
than it was when this requirement was first created, and the
school is becoming more diverse with each year. Is it right to
deny a growing number of students every year the honor of
sitting on the College’s Board of Trustees?

This decision by the Trustees is certainly not the first time
they have examined this requirement. In fact, as The Davidsonian
reported in its Feb. 18 issue, serious discussions by the Board
about Davidson’s religion requirements date back to the 1960s.
More recently, in 1993 an SGA proposal to allow non-Christian
alumni to serve on the Board led nowhere.

Just over a decade later we have returned to this same issue.

As much as some may feel that opening the doors of the
College’s governing body to those who do not share the same
ideas of God, faith and religion as Davidson’s founders will in
some way erode our Christian heritage, doing so will actually
strengthen our traditions. As the College’s Statement of Pur-
pose makes clear, “The loyalty of the college . . . extends be-
yond the Christian community to the whole human community
and necessarily includes the openness to and respect for the
world’s various religious traditions.”

How can we respect other religious traditions when non-
Christians are granted fewer rights and privileges than the rest
of the College’s alumni?

In the coming months, seniors’ rights as alumni may not be
their greatest concern. Yet these same months could prove to be
a historic time in Davidson’s history as the newly formed com-
mittee decides what Davidson students walk off the stage of
graduation carrying.

Will that diploma be matched with “all the rights and privi-
leges” we are guaranteed, or is it just an empty promise?

The Bavidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editers
Brandon Catsoll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams ©
Arts & Living Editors’,
Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson
«.. Yow) Eélitor

| peecAinon & Mie Gig

~ PERS

7 Patent Sweater

So, YOURE
STILL DATING
“THE CHARMING

*

. He GIVES
GREAT ADVICE.

| \ Sa! .

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Marcu 24, 2004

+e AND CHECK OUT
THE NEW EARRINGS!

Re / LIKE USING
D LICENSE PLATES
ee AS FESTIVE
PLACEMATS!

Help stop obscene
eraffiti on campus

I hope The Davidsonian and the Davidson College commu-
nity will help the Residence Life Office solve a continuing
problem.

Since February 1, 2004, RLO has
cleaned or repainted 12 separate graf-
fiti renderings of male genitalia from
residence hall walls, stairwells and
doors.

Although most of these “artworks”
Ss have been located. in Belk, similar
graffiti has appeared in Richardson
and Duke.

In each instance, no one has come forward to claim respon-
sibility and RLO’s efforts to identify the perpetrators have been
unsuccessful.

Therefore, in accordance with College policy, the cleaning
and repair charges will be divided among the residents of the
residence hall. ;

So far, these charges exceed $400.00. Most distressing, the
most recent graffiti singles out gays in a manner that is cer-
tainly harassment and perhaps, a threat.

Clearly, these actions are not acceptable at Davidson Col-
lege where honor is valued and the community seeks to recog-
nize “the dignity and worth of every person” (Davidson Col-
lege Statement of Purpose).

Failure to take responsibility for one’s damage and allowing
hall residents to pay for it is tantamount to theft.

Gay students should not have to face harassment in their
residence hall homes. All resident students and housekeepers
have aright to respectful and considerate treatment in the resi-
dence halls.

I hope the perpetrator will reconsider his or her actions, rec-
ognize that the community is not amused and accept responsi-
bility for the damage.

I hope Davidson College community members who have
information about the incidents will remember their responsi-
bility to their neighbors who are inconvenienced or harassed
by this graffiti and share information or the perpetrator’s name
with RLO or Campus Police.

The RLO staff strives to provide housing for our students but
it takes all of us, working together, to make a community.

Leslie M. Marsicano
Associate Dean of Students;
Director, Residence Life

Police car design
unacceptable

Bad job on the new police car design. Not only was the stu-
dent design relegated to near-obscurity, but the screaming script
seems to have come from one of those shops that specializes in
pre-fab emergency vehicle designs. This recent, corny brand of
artistic unoriginality fits right in with the “impact” mentality of
area law enforcement. Chief Walker’s method of law enforce-
ment, fortunately, more nearly approximates the simple, origi-
nal, but authoritative, old design. [Maybe we should try again. ]

Roland F. Foss ‘05

= WHO WAS THAT MASKED MAN WHO os
WRWERS KOPERTINENT OVESTINS “23
BUTIS MIGHTY QUICK WITH A an

7 CAMPAIGN SPEECH 2? ~ sew

THAT'S THE
LONE 4
PRESIDENT! .*

1297 TENT YeaRs
Giz SveRypadY Hele

HEALTH ee

