THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004 5

Bleecher gives admissions
update, ’Phonathon’ proposed

By JoHN HELMs

Staff Writer

Admissions Counselor Grant Bleecher ’02
explained to the SGA on Thursday the status
of the Class of 2008 and what measures the
Office of Admissions has adopted to counter
theoverwhelming effect that the Class of 2007
has had on the student body size.

Commenting on the effect that the Class of
2008 will have on Davidson’s selectivity of
applicants, Bleecher said, “Davidson is now
poised to bring down its acceptance rate.”

Bleecher then requested that the SGA help
in reaching out to students who are in leader-
ship positions in their high schools.

Along with the large number of overnight
hosts that are needed to pull off Decision
Davidson in April, Bleecher also brought up
the SGA “Phonathon/Catchat” wherein SGA
members would telephone accepted students
~ who had similar interests and introduce them
to Davidson College.

At the close, Bleecher mentioned that “[you
can be involved] as much as you want to be
involved, we would love to have you.”

A group of students then brought forth the
proposal to form the Hip Hop Society. Mike
Dausch ’04 introduced the idea by discussing
the benefits the group would bring to the
Davidson community.

“This would help raise awareness of hip hop
culture since most students only get a little bit
of it on Friday and Saturday nights out on
Patterson Court,” said Dausch.

He went on to talk about the group’s plans to
host a film festival and a panel to discuss the

history of hip hop.

An ambitious part of the proposal was the
formation of ahip hop performance troupe that
would be on the same level as the school’s a
cappella groups.

Dausch alsocommented on the need for more
musical outlets on campus. “People in music
have a hard time for an outlet for creative en-
ergy. Music isn’t represented in campus life,”
he said.

With the SGA’s discussion of the proposal
consisting mostly of funding issues and the
initial financial status that the group would
hold, the SGA voted unanimously to approve
the formation of the Hip Hop Society.

The final piece of discussion for the evening
was the possible completion of plans to hold
events and festivities at the Lake Campus over
of three consecutive starting Friday, April 2nd
and concluding on Thursday April 22nd.

While the SGA plans to host some musical
performances on the nights of April 2 and 22,
there are no definite plans as to who the
performes will be. During the meeting, the pos-
sibility of hiring a DJ was brought up and com-
pared to the cost and effectiveness of having a
live band. -

It was noted that the decision concerning a
live band had to be made soon since the dead-
line for hiring the band was closing in.

Abruptly concluding a good deal of the ne-
gotiating, Mac Skelton ’07 pointed out that the
SGA should leave it up to the committee in
charge of organizing the event instead of dis-
cussing it as a whole.

With that, Hubbard decided to have the is-
sue resolved on the following Monday.

Lake, from page 1

day before Spring Frolics. The Vamanos Van
will provide shuttling service to the Lake.

The Oops comedy improv group is sched-
uled to perform as well as other student per-
formers.

As a special treat the last night will include
a bonfire with S’ mores.

Each week, balls will be available for pick-
up games, and numerous T-shirts will be given
away to students.

The rental sailing and paddleboat equipment
will be available for free student use as well.

Saik added that the last night will also include
“awesome boat tours” by Sterling Martin, di-
rector of the Lake Campus, allowing students
to “enjoy nighttime on the lake.”

The original plans called for four weeks of
activities, but SGA decided it would be more
appropriate and that turnout would be better if
the events ended,the night before Spring Frol-
ics.

“We rarely have something [at Davidson]

that’s a unified activity. We want to make this ~

an encompassing event to get people out there,”
said McCrory.

Due to the overall neglect of facilities at the Lake Campus, the SGA has
decided to start their “April at the Lake” event Sere; Gerane to meee

more students to the Lake Campus.

College alcohol policy —
to be reviewed this year

Web-based survey to
be distributed to
student body to aid RLO

By Zacu Kazior -
Staff Writer

A survey will be sent later this semester to
the student body to aid in the review of
Davidson’s alcohol policy. The Student Hand-
book calls for the alcohol policy to be reviewed
every two years.

Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker
and Director of Residence Life Leslie
Marsicano, along with five students, will head
the committee.

“We will review the entire policy with spe-
cial attention to consistency and areas that have
caused problems or concerns,” said Marsicano.

The process will begin this semester and the
final report will be forwarded to the CCRL for
comment in the fall.

Through his Research Methods in Clinical
Psychology class, Professor of Psychology
Cole Barton and his student President of Warner
Eating House Rachael Voyles have taken the
lead in developing a survey that examines fac-
tors they think are related to Davidson’s alco-
hol policy.

The class’s role, said Barton, is to pose the
questions that the research literature and stu-
dent experience tell us might best inform deci-
sions about alcohol and its many relationships
to the variety of students at Davidson.

Barton’s class has also made a special effort
to make sure the questions capture the range of

experiences of many types of students at
Davidson with respect to alcohol. .

“I think one of the strengths of our work
should be that the questions have been de-
signed, critiqued, and created by students liv-
ing within the policy.

“We have also reviewed some of the formal
literature about the psychology of alcohol, as
well as conducting research of this type. The
technology and technical resources the College
is committing to this effort are enabling us to
develop a random sample of students, and we
hope that process will lead us to a valid and
credible cross-section of student opinion,” said °
Barton.

Marsicano is also excited about the prospect
of this survey.

“We are interested in seeing the survey re-
sults in order to get a broader sample of student
opinion. So, in addition to the incentives that
the Psych class is offering participants, I hope
students will be motivated by the opportunity
to have direct input into policy-making here
on campus,” Marsicano said.

The questionnaire complements surveys
more routinely administered by Georgia Ringle
and the Health Center staff, enabling Barton
and his class to track trends among Davidson
students that can be compared to national
baselines.

“All of us are interested in how the specifics
of our policy influence our community rela-
tionships and health,” said Barton.

The survey will be web-based and allows
the student to respond to the questionnaire at a
time and ina setting that is most convenient for
them. The identities of the participants will
remain anonymous.

TO THE CLASS OF 2004

You are invited to attend

“Fiscal Fitness”
A Seminar for Davidson Seniors

-- Helping You Manage Your Money --

by Professor Ben Baker and President Robert F. Vagt

Saturday, April 3, 2004
| 9:00 am to 4:00 pm
Thurman Room in the Martin Chemistry Building

Registration is required.
You must register to attend - space is limited.
To register, email Wendy Roberts.

* Budgeting - How far will that salary really go?
© Simple tax retum preparation - How bad is the bite?
The importance of wills - You can't take it with you, but who will get it?
e Purchasing a home vs. renting
« General banking, loans, etc.
Investing - strategies and vehicles

© Buying a car (..

. Volvo vs. Maserati)

« Life insurance
