ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

By. ViRGINIA GREGORY AND ANDREW SCHAPIRO
Restaurant Reviewers

Often overlooked in its location at Shops on
the Green in Cornelius, Fuzion Bistro proves
to be arefreshing and unique alternative to the
more traditional upscale restaurants in the area.
On a recent visit we were impressed by the
“eclectic international menu,” whichis inspired
by, among others, Southwestern, Asian, and
French cuisines. _

Chef Scott Hollingsworth divides the dishes
at Fuzion into categories like small seafood
dishes, small entrees, appetizers, salads and
entrees. While slightly complicated, the menu
caters to arange of appetites and even the small
entrees come in substantial portions. One could
easily stray from the traditional appetizer fol-
lowed by an entree by ordering two small en-
trees or a salad and small seafood dish as a
lighter alternative.

Whatever the combination, a meal at Fuzion
is certain to reflect the restaurant’s name by
combining elements of different ethnic and
national cuisines. Togarashi seared tuna with
a spicy soy glaze is listed alongside diver scal-
lops with sweet and sour barbeque sauce and
classic shrimp cocktail. Thai chicken pizza and

Fuzion provides a good alternative for students to take their parents.

Carolina crab cakes anchor the menu’s appe-
tizer section and highlight Hollingsworth’ s aim
to meld distinct, international flavors into a
single dining experience.

Nevertheless, Hollingsworth’s daring cre-
ativity becomes more muted as one looks be-
yond the smaller offerings to the entrees and
desserts. Items like pan-seared filet mignon,
roasted organic chicken, and lobster ravioli,
while mouth-watering, are significantly more
mainstream.

Crispy Mongolian duck, positioned atop a
bed of sesame vegetable slaw, crowned our
meal at Fuzion. A sweet hoisin glaze coated
duck meat that delicately fell from the bone
and was perfectly complemented by the crisp
vegetables.

Our other starter, the sauteed lobster ravioli,
impressed us the least of our dishes. It was
clearly nothomemade, and an overwhelmingly
pungent cayenne pepper sauce dominated the
flavors of both the ravioli and the accompany-
ing sauteed spinach. Even the presentation of

Introduction to the BSC

By Amoura CARTER
Staff Writer

Unity, Dedication, and Love: three key
words describing what the BSC means to the
majority of people who are a part of the Black
Student Coalition.

As Erika Dean ’05, the BSC president, points
out, “I personally feel that the BSC has become
an integral part, of not only Davidson College,
but of the Davidson towncommunity. Students
and faculty alike have come to expect high
quality events of the BSC whether they are
academic—in the form of speakers, dinner
discussions—or social—cookouts and par-
ties.”

Says Renee Williams ’07, “I think the BSC
is essential not only to the black community on
campus, but the entire community, because it
helps to acknowledge diversity on campus.”

The BSC has not always had the influence
on campus and in the community that it has
today. The BSC was chartered in 1972 with
the intentions “to establish and maintain a spirit
of solidarity among the black students of
Davidson College.” Leslie McIver ’86 knew
the BSC as ahome away from home, “All of us
had moments when we needed to talk about
the black experience at Davidson. Ican’ timag-
ine life without the BSC, yet I recognize that
every generation is different.”

Through the years thé BSC has sponsored
many exciting events like the Martin Luther
King, Jr. lecture series and the Nanette Bearden
Dance Theatre in 1984, andin 1985 poet Nikki
Giovanni.

More recently the coalition sponsored jazz
performer Kathleen Bertrand and helped spon-
sor dance company StepAfrica.

“When I was a student at Davidson College
the BSC just struggled for recognition; it was
mainly a social house,” states Kevin Hanna’81.

While the BSC still strives to maintain a high -

level of social events, the wider Davidson com-

munity is more of a focus. The BSC has a
community service committee, chaired by
Vanessa Young ’05, which focuses on the low
income areas of Davidson that form a signifi-
cant part of the town proper.

Many people are glad to see the ever increas-
ing change in the BSC. “Since'I was a fresh-
man, the BSC has endured many changes from
the shifting of students, to seeing exec coun-
cils come and go and now seeing a new BSC
built. But there is one thing that the BSC has
never changed and that is its commitment to
community,” says Jacquin Gilchrist 05, BSC
social chair. For numerous individuals, the
BSC is a place to study, have fun, talk about
school, diversity or anything the moves them.

“The BSC has transformed into one of the
most dominant student-run organizations on
Davidson’s campus, and I feel that the BSC
has gained the respect of the community. I’ve
had people literally run up to me asking when
the next BSC event is and how they can get on
our email list!” exclaims Dean.

Dean makes an important point in saying
“people,” not just African American individu-
als. The BSC was created primarily for the
needs of the black students on campus, but the
BSC also serves all students. During Family

Weekend the house will be open for anyone.

wishing to see the newly renovated house.
BSC freshman representative, Craig Pickett
’08, has had good first impressions and high
hopes for the BSC. “My first impressions of
the BSC were positive. I sort of found it as a
safe haven. I think those in charge are really
trying their best to make the organization open

and enjoyable for all people. As long as they |?

keep doing what they are doing now and re-
main a positive influence to minority students
on the Davidson campus, I feel that it will
continue to thrive.” With Davidson College
continually. stressing diversity on campus, the
BSC will no doubt have a helping hand in that
process.

our duck trumped that of the ravioli, which lay
curiously scattered across a white plate.

We enjoyed two delicious entrees that im-
pressed us almost as much as the duck, though
they lacked its eclecticism. Maque choux, a
Creole concoction of sauteed corn, tomatoes,
and onions, accompanied a blackened Chilean
sea bass. The blackened crust on our large filet
of sea bass did not challenge the tender meat
nor did it overwhelm the fresh corn’s natural
sweetness. Grilled flank steak, while not the
most sophisticated cut of meat, often picks up
the flavor of its marinade. Fuzion’s flank steak
was flavorful and came sliced atop an enor-
mous mound of crisp stir-fried vegetables.
Though listed as a small entree the steak dish
was easily as large as our sea bass entree.

The dessert selections were perhaps the least
inspired part of the menu. While the desserts
offered match the other courses in quality, they
lack inspiration from the fusion theme that lies
at the heart of the restaurant’ s cuisine. The three
selections on the menu, creme brulee, bananas
foster, and molten chocolate cake, did not spark
our interest but are available for diners with a
lingering sweet tooth.

On a whole, we found our server at Fuzion
to be efficient friendly and knowledgeable.

She was more than happy to point out the
restaurant’s specialties and even accommo-
dated our desire to order an appetizer portion
of an entree. Taking into consideration our
preferences for wine, she suggested two wines
that we each found enjoyable. At first, the
absence of a steak knife forced us to saw flank
steak with a butter knife, but upon request the
proper utensil was quickly provided and an
apology made.

The interior of the restaurant clearly seeks
to extend the theme of fusion beyond the food.
A large fish tank filled with colorful fish is
reminiscent of those found in many sushi res-
taurants, while the large marble columns at-
tempt to import a sense of European grandeur.
If this dichotomy were not enough, the
cloudscape painted on the ceiling of the dining
room further contributes to the eclectic atmo-
sphere.

The ensemble of these diverse motifs is
somewhat opulent and distracting in a restau-
rant where the food is good enough to stand
alone.

In pleasant weather, we recommend dining
outside at one of the many patio tables. There
are also the options of a spacious lounge which
occupies the right half of the restaurant and a
large bar which seemed popular with the
middle-aged Lake Norman crowd. A creative
cocktail menu and an extensive wine selection,
consisting of more than 100 wines by the bottle
and over 25 by the glass, explains the bar’s
popularity and complements Hollingsworth’s
menu.

Off the beaten path for Davidson students,
Fuzion tends to be reserved for special occa-
sions. With Family Weekend fast approach-
ing, itis a great option for an upscale meal, but
we do suggest making reservations in advance.

Fuzion Bistro
20930 Torrence Chapel Rd.
Cornelius, NC 28031
(704) 895-6656
www.fuzionbistro.com

Fuzion serves dinner only Monday-Satur-
day

