By Britt MERCADANTE

Staff Writer

Without a doubt, the field hockey team was happy to be ~

playing at home this weekend. The Wildcats just finished a “
season-opening five game road campaign that included travel
in three different states, Virginia, North Carolina, and Penn-
sylvania, only to finish with a 1-4 record. The most critical
defeat came September 15th at the hands of Appalachian State,
a Nor-Pac Conference foe.

The Wildcats, champions of the Nor-Pac East Division in
the regular season last year, entered their first conference
match-up with high hopes, but a first-half goal by Appala-
chian State gave the Mountaineers an early 1-0 that they would
take into halftime.

The stunned Wildcats regained their stature, but were still
unable to find any offensive rhythm during the second frame.
Instead, the Mountaineers added two more goals in the sec-
ond half to seal the victory and place the Wildcats in an early
hole in the Nor-Pac Conference. “

& The Wildcats returned to Davidson disappointed at the out-
come of their opening Nor-Pac léss, but nonetheless deter-
mined not to let the loss ruin the rest of the season.

Liz Meltzer ’07 says,’“Following the Appalachian State
game we decided as a team that that was not the way our sea-
son was going to go. We knew we had to step it up a notch or
two.” .

The Wildcats definitely stepped it up a notch for their first
home game against Longwood in a 5-1 drubbing of the Lanc-
ers on Sunday. Davidson overpowered Longwood in every

THe DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
SEPTERMBER 22, 2004

The synchronized Wildcat defense held Longwood to only one goal during the home opener.

aspect of the game, as the Wildcats dominated from the start.
Eleanor Cowley ’08 was the first to place the Wildcats on the
scoreboard, while freshman sensation:Kayli Maxwell ’08, re-
sponsible for four of the first six Wildcat goals on the season,
added to the lead only nine minutes later. Emily Davis ’06
capped the scoring in the first half with her first goal of the
season off an assist from Molly Blackman ’06.

The Wildcats opened the second-half flat, as they allowed
Longwood to cut the deficit to 3-1. They soon regained their

dominating manner, though, with a quick goal by Tiffany
Homan ’05 to increase the lead to 4-1. Maxwell finished off
the scoring/less than ten minutes later with her second goal,
and Davidsofheld the Longwood offense in check for the rest
of the game to improve their overall record to 2-4.

The Wildcats hope to continue their winning ways at
Belk Turf Field as Catawba comes to Davidson September
21st, followed by Nor-Pac Conference member Radford on
September 26th.

Latting getting used to being double-threat for Wildcats

John Latting ’06 tries to burn a defender in the Wildcat’s recent victory over Vanderbilt.

AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Senior Staff Writer

John Latting ’06 is a feared presence on the soccer field,
anchoring the Wildcat defense with his solid play. Latting has
been a key player on the soccer team for three years, as he
even started every game as a freshman.

In his first season, Latting was moved around in various
positions for the ’Cats, but last year Latting was moved to
central defense, where his quick acceleration has been key to
shutting down opposing forwards. About the switch to de-
fense, Latting says, “At defense, if you make a mistake it usu-

Kayli Maxwell ‘o8
Field Hockey
Hometown: Edmond, Oklahoma
: Major: Undeclared
Maxwell was rewarded this week for her incredible perfor-
mance against Longwood when the Northern Pacific Confer-
ence named her Rookie of the Week for the Eastern Division.
The first year student scored two goals and assisted another
while leading the team to a 5-1 victory in the home opener.

ally costs you a goal, and your best plays don’t even make the
stat sheet. You only get noticed when you mess up. But I like
defense. It seems to come easier to me than offense.” Last
year’s defense was stellar, it held opposing teams to a 0.85

_ goals against average, and the defense completely shut out

opponents in 10 games.
Latting’s outstanding play garnered recognition on last year’s
All-Southern Conference and All-South Region teams.
Head coach Matt Spear says, “To be named not only All
Conference, but more importantly All South Region, well this
underlines the level of respect other teams and head coaches

tou N

have for him.” Latting has kicked off this season with several
more .accolades, as he was named to the Preseason All-Con-
ference Team and the Davidson/adidas Classic All-Tourna-
ment Team.

Even though Latting is such a solid defender, he is also a
very dangerous offensive threat. This was demonstrated by
his overtime goal to defeat University of Alabama-Birming-
ham, who was ranked 21st in the country at the time. Although
it is rare for a defender to provide much firepower in the of-
fense, Latting tallied three assists last year, including two game
winners against College of Charleston and Wofford.

Latting graduated from Jefferson County IB, in Birming-
ham, Alabama, where he made all-Metro and all-State teams
during his junior and senior years. He also led his club team,
the Vestavia Steamers to three state titles in three years, while
at the same time earning a spot on the Alabama ODP (Olym-
pic Development Program) team. “In high school, I was a cen-
ter midfielder, and I always enjoyed that position because you
have more freedom with the ball.”

Latting is a biology major with the post-Davidson goal of
becoming a physician, like his father. “I’ve wanted to be a
doctor since I was about 12; I even did an internship with an
orthopedic surgeon and a radiologist in high school; I have
always loved human anatomy and physiology and enjoyed
the problem solving aspect of medicine,” said Latting.

Regarding Latting’s play on the field, “One of the most com-
pelling components about John’s game is that he relishes play-
ing against great teams; Watching John compete is fun as a
coach, as an alumnus, and as a fan; His abilities rise to the
occasion, and that’s why I think his potential is still not
capped,” says Spear.

Latting’s leadership will be needed as the Wildcats head
into a stretch of games against several top-notch teams, in-
cluding South Carolina, Virginia, and Coastal Carolina. Latting
knows that the best defense is a good offense. “The theme for

_ this season is ‘score goals:’ that makes my job much easier.”

I

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Despite a lopsided loss to Lenoir-Rhyne, the one bright spot for the
football team was a tricky play resulting in the lone score of the day. In
the early second quarter, the Wildcats faked a:punt on fourth down.
Jonathan Hubbard ’07 took the snap and ran with it, turning a play into
a 36-yard gain to the 10
