2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

704-651-6668

_ News

$10.00 Off ist Brazilian or Back Wax!

Licensed Esthetician
With Over 10 Years Experience

Main Street
Davidson/Cornelius
Heritage Plaza - Suite 105
(Next to Carolina Cones)

_ ‘WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

COMA holds first meeting,
makes plans for semester

Despite ‘very good’ turnout, more
majority student participation wanted

By ApaM MartTIN
Senior Staff Writer

The revived Committee on Minority Affairs
no time in planning upcoming
events at its inaugural meeting of the semester,
two weeks/ago. This SGA committee is meant
to serve as an umbrella organization for the ten
minority student groups on campus.

Chairperson Tiffany Hollis ’04 hopes that
COMA will reassume its role as a voice for
minority concerns and a support for more mi-
nority activities. SGA reappointed Hollis last
October to her second term as Chairperson. She
is also the Vice President of the Black Student
Coalition (BSC).

Despite a “‘very good” turnout at their meet-
ing, Hollis wished to see more majority stu-
dents interested in COMA and minority activi-
ties on campus.

“J want to open membership up to anyone
who wants to help improve race relations, pro-
mote tolerance, and encourage diversity here
on campus. We had a lot of people come, but
I would have liked to have seen more than two
white men,” said Hollis.

One of those white men was Mark Agerton
’06 who said, “I’m not really conscious of
what ‘white privilege’ means on a day-to-day
basis. I went to the meeting because I wanted
to hear the concerns of minority students and
I wanted to start actively seeking out opportu-
nities to build relationships.”

Amrote Abdella, President of Davidson In-
ternational Association (DIA), one of the mi-
nority groups under COMA, spoke of COMA’s
contributions in years past.

“Our discussions have been very fruitful.
Through COMA the concerns of some are
spread to all the other miriority groups. Through
this, we are learning to understand our differ-
ences and creating asense of unity. COMAalso
gives minorities one, stronger voice to admin-

Campus Police Blotter

2/7

Patterson Court

Unknown person(s) damaged the kitchen door at the KA house. Reporting officer found
a number of glass panes broken out of the kitchen door. It appears that lose bricks from
the sidewalk were used to break the glass. Estimated damage $200.00.

istration,” he said.

Hollis emphasized COMA’s active involve-
ment in student life. “We can get things done,”
she said. ““You got problems with the curricu-
lum, tell us. Student life concerns, tell us. We
have some financial resources for events and
the administration’s ear for problems.”

COMA’s budget tripled this year to $450 and
has already co-sponsored three events this se-
mester.

On MLK Day members helped lead discus-
sions on race. Last Monday they helped bring
a Psychology professor from Guilford College
to give a lecture about the “Integration of
America’s Boarding Schools: Blacks in the
White Elite” sponsored by the Public Lectures
Committee and the Sociology Department as
well as other organizations. The Gay-Straight
Alliance (GSA) and COMA also recently held
a film-fest in the Sprinkle Room.

On February 20, the Asian Cultural Aware-
ness Association (ACAA) and COMA will
bring the first Asian comedian to Davidson,
Eliot Chang. Chang recently appeared on Com-
edy Central’s stand-up comedy show, Premium
Blend.

The litany of minority organizations COMA
represents includes the Jewish Student Union
(JSU), Muslim Student Association (MSA),
Davidson African Students Association
(DASA), Organization of Latin American Stu-
dents (OLAS), DIA, ACAA, BSC, GSA, Stu-
dents for New Learning, and the Chronically
Disabled Student Association (CDSA).

Historical note: Records show that one of
the first student committees at Davidson cre-
ated to provide social support for minorities
began in 1984. This committee, Racial Atti-
tudes Concerns Everyone (RACE), was chaired
by a white student named Andrew Yon ’86. At
that time “minority organizations” meant the

‘BSC, the American Guild of Organists, Catho-

lics, NOW, and the Young Libertarians.

Damage to Property

www-philactr-edu

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
Academic Credits transfer!

445.735.7900 |

