12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

My favorite Sports Illustrated of the year is
not the Swimsuit edition or the Sportsman of
the Year.

They are quality issues, without a doubt, but
my favorite issue comes several times a year,
including last week when I pulled the 2004-05
NFL Preview out of Box 6245.

With the exception of the NHL preview, I
devour the pre-season editions, learning how
Missouri’s Tim Smith could lead his team to a
Big-12 Title and why Mike Shanahan believes
Champ Bailey is the lynch-pin to the Broncos’
2005 Super Bowl hopes.

I stuff useless stats in my head, learn who

For you
Spores fais...

PROOKIE S PICKS

a

OF TB WEEK

Wildcat game of

the week:
Men’s Soccer in Davidson/Adidas Classic

By JEFF HAMILTON
Guest Columnist

After winning their home opener vs,
Marquette and dropping a game on the road
_ vs. 18th ranked Old Dominion, Davidson
will host Vanderbilt and UAB this weekend. | They're baaaaaaaaack! I know you missed
At this stage in the season, the Wildcats are them. It’s OK fellas, you can admit it without
still looking for a consistent offensive attack throwing your masculinity on the ground and

i i jumping up and down on it: you were utterly
lost without the WNBA while they were on their
Olympic break.

As one of maybe three or four legitimate
_ WNBA fans at this school (OK, in the country)
- who actually knew the league took a break for
the Olympics, I thought it would be appropri-
ate to enlighten the rest of you as to what you’ re
missing.

Since I had been counting down the days until
my team, the Connecticut Sun, returned from

lotte, I knew I would be in attendance when
they took on the Charlotte Sting. Now, you need
to understand that Sting-Sun is a bit of a rivalry.
Think Davidson-Furman, I guess. Big, but not
that big. You have to remember that nothing in
the WNBA is that big.

Anyway, we got to the old Charlotte Coli-
seum just in time for the anthem. As my buddy
(he made me sign a contract that I couldn’t give

SPORTS

the break, and since they resumed play in Char- —

could be the X-factor this year, and read worth-

less rankings that will invariably turn out
wrong. Still, I was excited when SI picked
the Panthers as one of four teams “to be
feared” in 2004. After being shafted in the
media for so many years, and even through-
out their Super Bowl run last year, people are
finally noticing the franchise from Charlotte,
North Carolina.

The best thing about the preseason issues,
however, is the eternal optimism that oozes
from every player and coach as cliches run
rampant. In the preseason, there are question
marks, but there are always explanations and
rationalizations. Before the laces are tightened,
everyone still has a chance to be a champion,
whether it is for an NCAA title, a Conference

ove mie

CNNSI.com

Although the Panther’s Super Bowl nemesis adorns the cover of the
SI NFL Preview Issue, Carolina was listed as a ‘team to be feared.’

WNBA fan cares enou

anybody his name if bs went to the game with
me, so don’t ask) and I tried to proceed to the
lower level seats, we were stopped by an
overly ambitious usher who informed us that
we would not be sitting in the lower level with
our $10 tickets. Dejected, but still happy to
be there, we procepd to our seats in the upper
level.

On the first possession of the game, Sting

Sting-Sun is a bit of a
rivalry. Think Davidson-
Furman, I guess. Big,
but not that big.

center Tammy Sutton-Brown got fouled and
went to the line for two. It occurred to me that
this was the perfect time to prove my loyalty
to the Sun, and I began yelling “BRICK” as
the rest of the arena had gone into respectful
foul line silence.

I took the dirty looks from startled mothers
in stride, and after the first free throw, repeated
the same line for the second attempt. No less

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 8, 2004

Championship, or a Vince Lombardi Trophy.

And because sports are now so defined by
parity, as demonstrated by the Panthers, the
Lightning, the Twins and ‘the Cinderellas, ev-
eryone now has a reason for hope. Even the

Bengals went 8-8 last year.

Our Davidson Wildcats, meanwhile, won’t
grace any glossy preseason preview issues,
flying on the outskirts of Division I athletics
throughout much of the year.

We do have the occasional bright spot, such
as the 58-54 victory over the Tar Heels in
2001, the men’s soccer team’s Final Four birth
in 1992, and the football team’s 13-0 season
in 2000, but those moments are few and far
between.

This year, we again won’t have a national
champion or an SI cover, and no one is talk-
ing about us over on ESPN, but as the school
year begins, we can be equally optimistic
about our chances in 2004-05.

The men’s soccer team returns almost ev-
eryone from its Conference Championship
team of a year ago, and looks to open the new
Alumni Stadium in style for the 2004 season.
Hopefully a disappointing opening-round loss
to Coastal Carolina in the 2003 NCAA tour-
ney will serve as a learning experience for the
2004 ’Cats.

The women’s cross country team is primed
for another run to the top of the Southern Con-
ference, and is looking beyond even the Con-
ference Championships this year. Senior All-
conference runner Kelly Fillnow ’05 returns
for her final year, and twin sister Meghan
Fillnow ’05 looks to pick up where her sister
started last year as a first-time runner.

Men’s basketball loses only Nick Booker
’04 from last season’s 17-12 season, and hopes
to the return to the NCAA tournament after a
two-year absence. The out-of-conference
schedule, despite the loss of the Tar Heels,
includes high-profile games against Duke,
Georgetown and Seton Hall.

Women’s tennis returns four all-conference
performers from the 2004 season, and looks
to claim its first-ever SoCon title in 2004 af-
ter a disappointing loss to College of Charles-
ton in the 2004 conference finals.

Those stories, and the others, will not all
turn out as well as they look on paper; there
will be injuries, heartbreaking losses, and
unmet expectations. Holes will be exposed,
optimism will be doused, and the eternal hope
of a grand season may have to wait for an-
other year.

But before the seasons start, we’re all 0-0,
and anything is still possible. So while I can’t
read about the ’Cats in any Sports Illustrated,
I can dream nonetheless.

ough to yell ‘Brick!’

than half the arena (read: 14 people) then
turned to give me a perplexed look, which was
either related to their bewilderment that a Sun
fan was in the building or to their incredulity
that anyone cared that much about the game...
I'll go with the latter.

The game maintained ho-hum intensity for
35 minutes, until the Sun finally decided to
chip away at a double digit deficit. They ended
up pulling within one, but the final was Char-
lotte 62, Connecticut 55.

Despite the loss, it felt good to have the girls
back. It’s the home stretch of the season and
the playoffs are right around the corner. I’m
hoping the Sun can outdo last year’s Eastern
Conference Finals performance and bring
home the trophy to Uncasville, Connecticut.

I invite you all to take a look at the WNBA,
maybe even watch a game on ESPN2 (if it
ever unfreezes). So what if they can’t dunk
and often have trouble holding on to loose
balls; it’s basketball, and these girls can shoot.

On September 15 the Sun returns to Char-

_ lotte and you can bet I'll be there again. Call

me up if you want to go, because the one per-
son who went with me last time said he’d
never go again,
