Football brings home PFL victory L -verett 705 on

By Srepuen J. HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

- The football team earned an important victory this week, as
they improved to 2-4 on the season and 1-1 in.the PFL South
division. They defeated eighth-ranked Morehead State 14-10
in-a defensive struggle, and propelled themselves into con-
tention for the PFL South title.

Davidson didn’t shine on offense, as the Wildcats managed
only 227 yards of total offense on the day, but did enough to
win the game behind 185 yards on the ground from John
Leverett ’05 and two touchdowns from wide receiver Brett
Dioguardi ’07.

Turnovers continued to plague the offense, as the ’Cats gave
the ball over twice on the afternoon, including a Damion White
05 interception on the opening drive of the game after
Davidson had moved inside the Morehead State 10. Davidson
was also fortunate to have only two turnovers, as the Wildcats
recovered two of their own fumbles as well.

Despite the struggles, Davidson yas able to put the ball in
the end-zone twice in the first half, and Leverett’s 185 yards
marked his fourth consecutive 100-yard game, and the 12th
of his career. The senior tailback is now just 250 yards from
the all-time Davidson mark for career rushing yards.

On the other side of the ball, the defense did an excellent
job of holding the Eagles to only 237 yards, and also forced
three takeaways. Defensive captains Brendan Dete ’05 and
Kevin Saunders ’05 recorded 14 tackles each. Dete also re-
corded a sack, and Saunders added a key fumble recovery for
Davidson. Meanwhile, Chris Leftwich =’05 recorded four tack-
les, one sack, a forced fumble and two fumble recoveries in a
very strong performance.

The Wildcats started the game strong, driving deep into
Eagle territory. before throwing an interception on their first

see Football, page 15

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OctToBER 20, 2004

verge of breaking:
rushing record |

By Bossy } Demuro
Staff Writer

- Running back John Leverett ’05 has had a.phenonienal
‘ career, However, there are still challenges to be met, and goals
to achieve as the season and his career winds to a close.

Of course, Leverett holds team goals in the highest regard,
such as winning the Pioneer Football League crown this fall.
Besides that, however, Leverett has a chance to leave
Davidson with some amazing personal achievements as well.

Over the rest of this season, Leverett has the opportunity
to set the Davidson football career rushing mark, which is.
held by Ray Sinclair 82. Currently, including play Saturday
against Morehead State; Leverett has 2,835 career rushing
yards, just 250 yards behind Sinclair’s record.

Leverett, however, is quick to dismiss this talk. “I didn’t
get into this position by focusing on the records every play, _
86 starting to do that now could only cause me to play differ-
ently,” he stated.

He hasn’t been playing differently thus far, either. Leverett’s
day against Morehead State was’a big one, as he rushed for
185 yards on 27 carries to account for more than 75 percent
of. the™ “Wildcat offense. The week before against Jackson-
ville, he'Fashed for'259 yards : and ‘three touchdowns on 30
carries, tying acareer high | for yardggushing in a game. Troni-
-eally, the mark was one yard shy ¢ c ieee
“held, by one other than Sinclair, During ‘the.J
i 3 a game, Leverett broke the Davidson. career oe.
Brett Dioguardi ’07 celebrates after his

touchdown reception against Morehead St. see Leverett, page 15

‘Women’s Soccer i improves to 6-1 in Southern Conference

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Kristen Koehrn ’08 and Heidi Wilbrant ’07 used their heads
to lead the women’s soccer team in its afternoon win against
Furman this Sunday.

Scoreless after more than sixty-five minutes of play, Anne

- Stevens 07 began the winning play with a perfectly placed
corer kick to the far post. Koehrn found the ball in the air
and redirected it across the goal to teammate Wilbrant, who
headed it past the opposing goalie for the one and only score
of the game. Wilbrant has five goals so far this season.

Goalkeeper Sarah Hobart ’05 recorded seven saves, as well
as her third shutout this season, in the victory. It was a tough
match overall, with both teams’ defenses playing a hard ninety

minutes. Despite-the final score, Furman out-shot Davidson :

12-8.

This win added to the Wildcat’s already impressive record
(9-6, 6-1) and keeps them in first place in the Southern Con-
ference.

Playing the Citadel, who is currently winless in SoCon play,
on Oct. 13 was good practice for the Furman game. Davidson
blew by the Bulldogs at Alumni Stadium for a final score of
12-0. In the first half, Koehrn had two goals and an assist to
Stevens, and Wilbrant scored off of one of two assists from
midfielder Nancy Haskell ’08.

The domination’continued after halftime, as Maggie
Womack ’07 and Koehrn each scored a pair of goals in the

Sarah Nolan ‘os
Field oy

Hometown: Maplewoo:

Major: Psychology

Veteran goalkeeper Sarah Nolan ‘os was named. Defensive
Player of the Week in the NorPac Conference's East Division.
Nolan racked up 20 saves against American, bringing her tally

over the 477 save mark on her career, a new school record.

She has also posted 10 shutouts in her career.

Sarah Hobart ’05 makes one of her seven saves in the victory against Furman. Furman out-

see Women, page 14__ shot Davidson 12-8, but Hobart was still able to record her third shutout of the season.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

With 2:06 still on the clock, Davidson was clinging to a tenuous 14-10 lead and
faced a critical third and 11 from the Davidson 19. While conventional wisdom
would suggest running the ball and forcing Morehead State to use its third and
final timeout to stop the clock, head coach Mike Toop called for a pass from
quarterback Damion White 'os. White then threaded a 14-yard completion to
Brett Dioguardi along the sideline for a first down. With the fresh set of downs,
the Wildcats were able to keep the ball on the ground and run out he clock

without allowing Morehead State's offense to get back on the field.

New Jersey

