SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Ol Vol
SOOres tans.)
PEER S PICKS OF

THE WEEBIK

Wildcat game of
the week:

Baseball vs. Georgetown
Saturday & Sunday at 1 p.m.

Well, I tried to get everyone excited last
week about the return to the baseball dia-
mond, but unfortunately the weather failed
us. So let’s try it again. _

Barting any natural disasters, baseball will
return to Davidson this coming weekend in a
two-game series against Georgetown. Come
see the diving grabs in the outfield, the beau-
tifully tumed 6-4-3 d

Outside the Den:

Sacramento Kings vs. Minnesota T’ wolves
Thursday at 7:30 p.m. on TNT

The two best teams in the league sqaure off
shortly after the All-Star break. Sacramento
leads by a mere one game in the standings,
having played two less than Minny and also
having two less losses. With Webber still out,
look for KG to make a statement about his
case for MVP by posterizing Brad Miller and
(possibly) winning the game single-handedly.

While Red Sox fans insist on lamenting

about the past, they apparently lack the fac-
ulty of short-term memory. The entire New
England area has united in denouncing the
Yankees for the Alex Rodriguez deal (the re-
cent one, not the one where the Sox embar-
rassed themselves), calling George
Steinbrenner the destroyer of baseball and his
Yankees the Evil Empire.

Maybe denial from the embarrassment of
that first A-Rod deal has forced Boston fans
to forget one thing: the Red Sox were a part
of it. In fact, they were the ones who were
supposed to get Rodriguez. The Beantown
babies are criticizing the Yankees for doing
the very same thing they tried so hard to ac-
complish a couple of months ago. The only
difference is the Yanks were actually able to
pull it off.

That seems to be the real complaint of Bos-
ton fans: the Yankées do what the Red Sox
wish they could. They sign the best players,
make the biggest deals, and win the most
games. Not that Boston doesn’ tury.

Sects li

go with second in the headlines and second in
the AL last year. This all goes nicely with the
second-highest payroll in the league.
Despite the fact that their payroll is bigger
than all the teams in baseball besides the Yan-
kees, Red _ fans don’t hesitate to shout

The Red Sox had, arguably, the better
offseason of the two teams, adding top pitch-
ers Curt Schilling and Keith Foulke along with
Ellis Burks and Pokey Reese. After losing A-
Rod to the Yanks, though, they’ lI have to settle
for second again: second in the offseason to

alongside teams like Detroit and Tampa Bay
about the evils of big money in baseball. They
claim the Yankees are trying to buy another
championship by successfully adding the
highest-paid player in'the game to their team.
Manny.Ramiréz has the second-richest con-
tract.

Both teams are trying to do the same’
things: get the best players and win the most
games. The Yankees, as they demonstrated
again last season and this winter, are just
better at it.

And so the Sox are stuck without A-Rod
and without anyone to blame but them-
selves. But that’s not about to happen. _

Ben Affleck, the epitome of Boston
whining, recently described George
Steinbrenner as the center of evil in the uni-
verse after being asked about the trade. He
went on to sarcastically claim that the Yan-
kees might eventually just buy everyone in
the league.

They might, but they’ Il have to beat out the
Red Sox again to do it.

Brutus “The Barber” Beefcake - do you
remember this guy? Let me refresh your
memory. The Barber was known in the
prestigious WWF of the eighties for cutting
opponents’ hair after pinning them in the
ring. Teamed with Greg “The Hammer” Val-
entine to form the Dream Team, he won the
1985 WWE Tag Team title. A good friend of

Hulk Hogan, this athletic
| superhero, whose real
/ names is Ed Leslie, is
_ making headlines once
' again. The Barber has
traded in his wrestling
stardom for a part time job
with the Massachusetts

' thority; and his talc pow-
| der for a similar looking
| substance. Investigators
. must have mistaken the

Barber for WCW wrestler
Brian Knobbs, aka “the Terrorist,” when they
feared the powder to be anthrax. Luckily, it
was just cocaine, and Ed has cooperated nicely
with police. He has entered rehab .. . Euro
2004 is the second-largest soccer tourna-
ment on the world stage next to the World
Cup. A sixteen-team tournament consist-
ing of the best national teams in Europe, it

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Valentine’s Day, by definition, is all about
love. But, let me tell you, no one from Boston
was feeling the love on Saturday. Riding shot-
gun around 6 p.m. on Saturday evening, I re-
ceived a call from back home. Had I been driv-
ing, the car would have surely gone off the
road.

At that very moment, ESPN was reporting
that Alex Rodriguez, widely regarded as the
best player in baseball, was being shipped to
the Yankees for Alfonso Soriano and some
minor-league pitcher. For those not privy to
the current state of Major League Baseball,
this is like trading a Porsche for a Dodge Dart
and a can of Quaker State. But it’s not so much
the absurdity of the trade that bothers us Red
Sox fans; it’s that Rodriguez was ours—or so
it seemed.

In late December, in a deal that could’ ve
given so many Bostonians their greatest
Christmas present, the Red Sox offered to send
Manny Ramirez to Texas in exchange for
Rodriguez. By some cruel twist of fate, how-
ever, the negotiations fell apart, and a month
later the Rangers named A-Rod their team
captain, seemingly securing his place in Texas
for the next several years.

' Bay Transportation Au- .

plays for the right to the crown of the con-
tinent and will be held in Portugal this June
and July. Tournament officials have added
a new format, for the fans. Adjustments are
being made to try and correct the problem
from Euro 2000, when 1000 fans were ar-
rested, mostly those hailing from England.
Upon arriving at the stadiums this summer,

“The Lingerie Football
League will consist of the
Passion, Dream, Eupho-
ria, and Desire. Are these
football teams, or a list of
the country’s top strip
clubs?”

fans that look slightly intoxicated will have
to pass a Breathalyzer test. If test results ex-
ceed the legal driving limit, spectators will be
turned away and not allowed into the game.
Who would ever have thought going to one
of the greatest tournaments in the world rep-
resenting the best players in its sport and at-

Evil Empire brings A-Rod to

It should come as no surprise, then, that no
one in New England saw this whole
Rodriguez-to-New York thing coming. We
were just waiting for Spring Training to be-
gin, happy to have had what many are calling
the best off-season of any other team, acquir-
ing both Curt Schilling and Keith Foulke and
thus creating what on paper looks like the best
pitching staff in baseball.

What’s more, the Yankees had lost their two
best pitchers in Roger Clemens and Andy
Petitte, who both went to Houston, and looked
capable of not making the playoffs for the first
time since Saved by the Bell was producing
the College Years (1995). For.so many
Bostonians and baseball fans in general, this
trade was more surprising than discovering
Maggie shot Mr. Burns.

The sad thing is we all should have seen it
coming because, let’s face it, we’re talking
about the New York Yankees. Many Sox fans
agree with Ben Affleck, who recently said,

“You know, George Steinbrenner is the cen- —

ter of evil in the Universe.” Sure, Steinbrenner
has played the role of rich kid with no friends,
buying his way into the hearts of New York-
ers with his scary lineups and formidable

‘pitching staffs, which usually combine to pro-

duce World Series rings.
I’m convinced, however, that there is a big-

tending a high school dance would have some-_
thing in common .. . Forty million people
missed Janet’s tease during this year’s Su-
per Bowl half time. Poor souls? Not exactly.
These lucky lads (and some lasses) were too
focused on pay-per-view’s Lingerie Bowl.
The game involved models wearing skimpy
lingerie while playing football. The event was
so popular, it has sparked a new league: The
Lingerie Football League, which will consist
of four teams and play league matches for a
chance to play during next year’s Super Bowl
half time. Making up the league are the Chi-
cago Passion, Los Angeles Dream, New York
Euphoria, and Dallas Desire. Are these foot-
ball teams, or a list of the country’s top strip
clubs ... As you may know, Alex Rodriguez
has been traded to the Yankees for Alfonso
Soriano and a player to be named. A-Rod
will likely play third base so Derek.Jeter can
stay at shortstop. The Yankees picked up the
remaining years on his previous contract with
the Rangers, consisting of roughly $115 mil-
lion over the next six years. So where did the
Red Sox go wrong in trying to obtain the great-
est player in baseball? The Sox must not have
offered him a suite in the hotel for road games
and permission to put a link to his personal
site on their web page, both included in his
deal with the Yankees.

the Dark Side

ger culprit here, and that he doesn’t even know
it. Aaron Boone had arguably the worst ALCS
of anyone on either the Yankees or Red Sox.
There were times when Boone was our best
player. With all those errors and strikeouts,
Boone was helping Sox fans forget all about
Bill Buckner. But then, of course, he goes yard
in the bottom of the 11th to become King of
the Bronx, if only for a night. (And no, it was
no consolation that the Yanks lost the Series;
for Boston, there was no Series).

You can blame Grady Little and curse Babe
Ruth, but it was Boone’s shot over the left field
fence that sent an arrow through the heart of
Red Sox nation.

And now this: sometime over the last two
weeks Boone went down with a knee injury
in a game of pick up basketball. So now the
Yanks need a third baseman. Logically, of
course, they elect to trade for the best short-
stop in the game. This is like the Lakers trad-
ing for Yao Ming and playing him at point
guard. And while the whole chain reaction
may be a coincidence, there certainly is anew
enemy in Boston right now. The only prob-
lem is Aaron Boone has no idea it’s him.

When it comes down to it, though, this may
be the most important fact of all: Alex
Rodriguez wears number three. So did a man
named George Herman Ruth.
