THE DavIDSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

3/28

Patterson Court Property Damage

Person reports that they discovered the rear door of the Phi Gamma Delta was damaged.
Officer responded to the incident and observed the rear door had been cracked just above
the door handle. It appears that the damage may have occurred from the interior.

3/29 Missing Property
‘Student came by the Public Safety office wishing to file a lost cell phone report. The cell
phone is described to be a Motorola E-120 and silver in color. Value of the phone is $160.

4 - Chambers Building Property Damage
Student reports that their black 1992 Chevrolet Lumina was missing from Baker Sports
parking area. The vehicle was last seen on Thursday, February 12, parked close to the
Motor Pool vehicles.
4/2 Satellite Parking Lot Property Damage
Student reports that his father’s 1994 Volvo station wagon was damaged. The vehicle
was parked in Satellite parking lot and was last known tobe secure at 11:30 p.m_on Thursday,

April 1. The student found the passenger side door lock damaged. Estimated damage at
$250. :

1EWS

WEpnEsDAY, APRIL 7, 2004

Former Reagan advisor
to speak at Davidson

Controversial author will offer his views in what
some call a healthy change in College’s lecture scene

By Davin Crow
Editor

Dinesh D’Souza, a former advisor in the
Reagan administration and currently the Rob-
ert and Karen Rishwain Fellow at the Hoover
Institution, will deliver a lecture entitled “The
Superiority of American Civilization.” The talk
will be in Chambers Gallery at 7:30 p.m. on
Apr. 14.

Bringing a conservative like D’Souza to
speak at Davidson will be a welcome change
for some students, who feel that the speakers
who have _ been
brought tothe campus
over the past several
years have not ad-
equately represented
the range of views
expressed by many
Davidson students.

Jack Hubbard ’06,
who helped organized
Mr. D’Souza’s talk,
said, “I felt there was
a lack of intellectual
diversity. among the
speakers being
brought to Davidson.
Dinesh D’ Souza is
going to bring that di-
versity, exposing stu-
dents to his conserva-
tive beliefs and prin-
ciples.”

Joseph Adams ’06,
President of the Col-
lege Republicans,
added, “Many at the
College are still hesitant to allow the expres-
sion of thoughts that are outside of the liberal
bubble.”

With D’ Souza’s talk next week, Adams does
feel that this resistance to conservative speak-
ers may be changing.

“Mr. D’Souza’s visit to Davidson suggests
that this opposition to conservative speakers
may be declining, as more and more people on
campus come to appreciate intellectual diver-
sity alongside other forms of diversity,” Adams
said.

However, other students feel that Mr.

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to
Start a career as an Army Linguist. This

experience will help prepare you for a.
future in business, government agencies;:.
embassy work and more! You'll also get’
English training (if needed) and receive.
quick advancement in rank. i
See your local Army Reserve Recruiter.
or visit arabic.goarmy.com/2 ;

Dinesh D’Souza, a former advisor
in the Reagan administration.

_D’Souza may not be the best person to repre-

sent the views of conservative students at
Davidson. . —

McLean Quinn ’05 Co-President of the
Young Democrats, said, “D’Souzais basically
a sensationalist ... I think that the College Re-
publicans may be doing a disservice to their
cause of rallying support for conservative
speakers by bring in someone as radical and as
out of touch with reality as D’Souza.”

D’ Souza, who first made a name for himself
as an undergraduate at Dartmouth College as
the editor of the conservative newspaper The ~

Dartmouth Review,

became the Manag-

ing Editor of Policy

Review after college.

From 1987 to 1988
he was a senior do-
mestic policy analyst
in the Reagan White

House and since then

has been the author of

several best selling
books, among them

“Tiliberal Education,”

“The End of Racism,”

and “What’s So Great

About America.”

Born in India, Mr.

D’ Souza has used his

experience as an im-

migrant to develop
"strong criticisms of

policies such as affir-
mative action while
supporting other con-
troversial views like

colonialism, making .
him among the more contentious conservatives
to speak at Davidson in recent years.

Despite the controversy, the lecture’s orga-
nizers still think it will be an enlightening event
for students of all political persuasions.

“TJ do not expect all people to agree with his
statements,” said Hubbard, “in fact I would
even encourage those who disagree to come
and speak their mind in the question and an-
swer period. I trust that Davidson students will
enjoy this departure from the recent speakers
status quo and come check out the other side of
the story.”

ITS, from page 1

ness is the result of one problem, a few related
problems, or a few unrelated problems.

This factor has also made it more difficult
for ITS to define the cause of the network de-
lays, because difficulties may be in the server,
the network equipment, or even client ma-
chines.

Network slowness has not been confined to
Davidson’s campus.

Recently Hollins University, in Roanoke,
Virginia, notified Davidson that they have been
experiencing similar difficulties with their net-
work.

Hollins, like Davidson, uses a network that
is made by the manufacturer Sysco, meaning
that the two schools share similar computer
equipment. e

By comparing and contrasting the two
schools’ networks, ITS hopes to find the prob-
lem.

Although delays in the network are a source
of great frustration amongst students and ad-
ministrators, ITS asks that students be patient

and understanding. ITS is doing its best to solve
_ the problem.

Inthe words of Marcia Makl, director of Net-
works and Systems, “We’ve got everyone
working on it.”
