9 THE DAVIDSONIAN

TODAY'S NEWS

Bicycle borrowed
PAGES

New Commons
punch machine

proves unpopular
SEE PAGE 5

Girl sends text
message while

dancing
SEE PAGE 7

Political Science
professor sick of -
being asked his
opinion on the

election
SEE PAGE 13

U BI

ORTA

OWL?

UBERTAS

SE DAY, Ns NOVENEES 4, ane

SE OR ETS SEAMEN

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

The Yowl:

Keeping it real since last January

November 4, 2004

ps a

The Davidsonian

College and Republicans debate
differences in Davidson’s famed Pit of Snakes

After two close, well-fought debates,
the College Republicans and Young
Democrats were prepared to settle the
score once and for all. This time, how-
ever, the debate format was not a simple
shouting contest between Eu and Phi
halls but rather a wrestling match in
Davidson’s pit of snakes. Regarding the
bout, College Republican Joseph
Robertson ’06 said, “I didn’t even know
we had a pit of snakes until last week.
Otherwise, we might have had all the de-
bates in there.” Remarkably few stu-
dents are aware of the existence of the
pit of snakes, recently dedicated as the
Tomlinson Pit of Snakes. The Pit was
used mostly in Davidson's early years to
persecute suspected witches, warlocks,
and various forms of heathens. It was
first used for political arguments in the
election of 1854, when the Davidson
Whigs challenged the Democratic Re-
publicans to a tag-team wrestling match
with the Free Soilers and the Know-
Nothings. The Pit was used for the politi-
cal debates for the next forty years, un-
til it was declared to be too dangerous
for students. The precursor to RLO con-
tinued to use it up to 1904 for the Fresh-
man Olympics, at which point it was re-

According to experts, while in the Pit, it is best not to make
sudden movements

tired completely from Davidson activities.
Filled with copperheads, rattlers, and
king cobras, the Pit of Snakes is located be-
neath the Sparrow's Nest facility next to the
laundry. Ten feet deep and filled with ap-

You know you're from Texas if...

Now last weekend I took some flack
for my Halloween costume. Some
people said that my giant Texas cos-
tume was the worst they’d ever seen. I
gotta ask, what’s wrong with a giant
cardboard cutout of the best state in
the Union? I got so riled up by this, I
just had to write this article, to prove
to everyone once and for all that Texas
is the best state there is, was, or ever
will be. There ain’t no competition. No
wuss states can even sniff our pickup
truck exhaust.

First of all, we have so much more
state pride then all the rest of y'all. I
haven’t seen a single flag from any

_ other state, except for that South
Carolina flag with the palm tree. I
mean, heck, we were the only state
that was once a sovereign nation. If
we didn’t feel so badly for all the other
weaker states, we’d secede and be the
best nation in the western hemi-
sphere, naw, the whole world! Every-
one who doesn’t live there, sure
wishes they did, that’s for’sure. If I
wasn’t born there, I’d have moved
there as darn fast as I could have. I

THE YOWL

Your Davidsornan Hunior Section
Vorep Naber:
Nate Bradshaw
Bobby Kenner

SENIOR STAFF WRITER:
Jeff Yeakel

Epiror:
Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or
interested in writing should contact the
editor at brparets@davidson.edu
Note: If you haven't been living in a cave for
the past six months, then you should know that
the Yow is a satirical supplement to the
Davidsonian. Hence, nothing in it should be
taken as truth.

Bill Fields ‘06
Texan

mean, who doesn’t wish they could have
a giant Texas flag flying in their room,
car window, and courthouse, or printed
on their t-shirts, coffee mugs, playing
cards, or guitar cases. My friend Jim
even has a Texas flag tattooed on his
lower back. Now that’s state pride, my

friend, and it’s something all the other ~

weaker states just ain’t got. I also got my
Texas map, commemorative Texas mug,

|, University of Texas banner, and my fa-

vorite pair of cowboy boots all in my
room. It’s like my daddy used to say, “Al-
ways keep yer ‘kerchief tied, yer boots
laced, and yer head up.”

In Texas, we not only have pride, but
also got respect. That’s something all
the yankee states need to learn a thing or
two about. We know how to treat a lady.
And although we wear cowboy hats all

the time, we always remove it when greeting
a lady, standing for the national anthem, or
when a funeral passes by. When someone
puts a good lock on their grain silo, you
know that means keep out. We don’t need a
farmer with a shotgun to tell us not go on his
property. We don’t mess with others, just
like others shouldn’t mess with Texas.

Let me tell you something else: our sports
teams are better than anyone’s. Whether it’s
the Astros, the Rockets, Mavericks, Rangers,
Texans, or our beloved Dallas Cowboys, we
love our professional sports teams. I watch
every game that they play, especially in the
playoffs. And, don’t get started on our col-
leges. Whether you're an a UT fan, an A&M
fan, a Baylor fan, a Texas Tech fan, or even
a TCU fan, we have something for every-
body. Me, [like all of them, cause they’re
from Texas, and I got so much Texas pride.
Hook ‘em horns or Howdy Damn It! It
doesn’t matter which one you want to say, as
long as it’s from Texas, I’ll respect it.

Everything is bigger in Texas. Our steaks
are bigger. Our cities are bigger. Our cars
are bigger. Our farms are bigger. Our Wal-
Marts are bigger. Heck, even our women are
better looking. People are generally nicer
folk. There’s sweet tea served at every meal.
Now, there may be sweet tea served here,
but it’s not as good. See, that’s the differ-
ence! Even if we do the same stuff, we do it
bigger and better. It’s like country music. We
love our country music, especially our Tex-
ans like Pat Green, Pretty much, nothing
anywhere else is as good as something from
Texas. Take barbeque for example. In Texas
our barbeque is the world’s best. Whether
it’s our Texas style barbeque sauce, or our
top grade cattle, this junk in North Carolina
doesn’t even compare. Fishing ain’t fishing
unless you are doing it in Texas. It ain’t
hunting if it ain’t in West Texas. All in all,
everything’s better in Texas. From El Paso to
Beaumont, Texas has got anything you’d
ever need.

proximately five hundred snakes, the Pit
was known as the best of its kind in the
Southeast up until its abandonment.
Physical plant worker Ronnie Powers
was in charge of preparing the area for the

debate. “The Pit hadn’t been used in over
a hundred years. We kept it up by throw-
ing a goat in there every third Tuesday,
but for the most part those snakes were
just left alone in their pit. I’m sure they
were looking forward to getting back into
action.”

Within the first two minutes of the
wrestling match/debate, 31 students had
been bitten. The debate in the Pit quickly
ended with the arrival of the ambulances,
but continued in the halls of the emer-
gency room at Lake Norman Hospital.
Over 40 Young Democrats and College
Republicans were treated, but not every-
one viewed the match as a complete
waste.

“I'd do anything to get Kerry’s new
message for America out to the public.
The sharp pain in my ankle only further
reminds me of the pain I will feel if Bush
is re-elected for another term. And that is
a pain that no venom kit will be able to
treat,” said Young Democrat David
Wright ’07.

Davidson College has suspended use of
the Pit of Snakes while they form a com-
mittee to investigate its safety. Petition
tables for “Save the Pit” have already
sprung up in front of Chambers building.

Presidential election
discussed in physics class

In the frenzied last days of election
season, the fever over the presidency
reached a head in all aspects of college
life. Normally, the classroom would be a
most appropriate and expected venue
for discussion of politics. Professor Ali-
cia Marsden, however, is accused of hav-
ing taken her politics into the classroom.

Marsden, the McDougal Professor of
Physics, mentioned the election at the
beginning of class on Friday, after over-
hearing several students’ talking about
their opinions. When class began, she
instructed the class to vote and then
asked them what they thought about the
upcoming election. After the initial re-
sponse, she began to express her own
thoughts on the current political scene.
“She said that we were a little ahead on
the syllabus and could take time to dis-
cuss politics for a few minutes,” Carl
Warrick ’07 recalled. However,
Marsden’s supposed “few minutes”
turned into the entire fifty minute class
period.

Warrick said, “She started off on the
war on terror, obviously because of the
whole al-Jazeera tape from bin Laden
and the attention it has drawn to the fact
that he’s still out there.” The conversa-
tion then moved to the explanations for
the Iraq war, and whether or not Bush
lied about the weapons of mass destruc-
tion. Marsden then went on to discuss
how the war in Iraq has been handled,
focusing on the 377 tons of explosives
that are apparently missing. “She wrote
377 on the board and underlined it sev-
eral times as she was talking,” Hicks re-
ported.

Covering Healthcare, Social Security,
taxes, and the deficit in similar fashion,

Marsden took up her entire class looking
at the issues surrounding the election on
Tuesday. Jenny Peters 06, “It was pretty
obvious that she was liberal. Every time
somebody would make a pro-Bush com-
ment, she would try to rebut it. Person-
ally, I stayed out of it because I want a
good grade in this class. I know some
people in the class who are definitely Re-
publican pretended that they were liber-
als to win points.”

When at the end of class, a student
asked what all of the political discussion
had to do with Bernoulli’s curves of quick-
est ascent. In reply, Marsden attested that
physics and the election have many simi-
larities, and are actually quite related.

Marsden stated, “I have a right to run
my class as I see fit. This is supposed to be
a liberal arts school, isn’t it? Aren’t we
supposed to be teaching students about
what’s right and wrong beyond calculus-
related physics? I believe that I did those
students a service by informing them
about the issues and where the President
and Senator Kerry stand. That’s going to
be more useful to them on Tuesday than
Bernoulli and airplanes.”

The Yowl apologizes for
a typographical error in
last week’s issue. The
headline that read “Field
Hockey Team tries really.
really hard,” should have
read: “Field Hockey
Team is one awesome
group of talented young
women!” Thank you for
your understanding.

