Tue DavipsoniaN

tht CUcl jaded wltcy

i)

Every Event,
By Amoura CarTER

Staff Writer

Students ought to get used to seeing the
new Union Board slogan, ‘Every Event, Ev-
ery Time.’ “We realistically intend for every
activity we produce to be a success,” says Jen-
nifer Mickle ‘05, Union Board Vice President.
Since 1952 and in numerous locales, the Union

has been the center of social life on campus. -

Trenita Brookshire ‘05 knows what the
Union Board is all about, “I think they are much
more active now than in previous years. I think

they work hard to prevent students’ boredom _

in a small town.”

In the past the Union Board has brought
speakers and entertainers including comedian
Bill Cosby, NAACP chair Julian Bond, and
towering college-acoustic icons Dave
Matthews and John Mayer to campus.

Peter Tittiger ’08 is already in awe at the
Union Board, “I was really impressed with the
variety of things the Union Board has to offer
the student body. No matter what you’re into
the UB will almost certainly have something
planned that you’ll enjoy.” - :

The Union Board has started the year out
strong for incoming freshmen by offering
events such as “Disorientation” and “Just

Chill.”

Juniors join in on the fun.

Arts & LIVING
‘Artist Series’ brings a variety of interest

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 7

for new season and discounts to students

Chicago City Limits will come on
November 6 in DFPH.

By MICHAEL CAVELL

Staff Writer

Students looking for an affordable fine arts
venue with a wide and exciting array of perfor-
mances need not look farther than Davidson’
own Duke Family Performance Hall. Not only
does this year’s C. Shaw and Nancy K. Smith
Artist series bring a diverse and exciting range
of performances to campus, student discounts
make buying tickets hard to pass up.

This year’s Artist Series consists of perfor-
mances by the Koresh Dance Company, Chi-
cago City Limits, Bruce Wood Dance Com-
pany, and the Poncho Sanchez Latin Jazz Band.

The wide variety of performances coming
to Davidson ensures that there will be some-
thing for everyone. Said Assistant Director of

the Union Lee Ann Bannerman, “These are .

groups that will appeal to the students.”
Koresh Dance Company, based out of Phila-
delphia and led by Israeli-born choreographer
Ronen Koresh will be performing Friday, Sep-
tember 10. The Koresh Company features

Every Time'-

Courtesy of Megan Spo
A first-year shows off her tye-dye
during “Dis-Orientation.”

Many students enjoyed the activities, no
matter how crazy they were made to look. “At
first Lhad to take it all in, especially when I saw
the toilet race, but the games and activities
really made me loosen up and I had so much
fun with my new friends,” says Elyse Harris
08. : t

The student body had their first opportunity
to meet the Union Board and sign up for com-
mittees during the activities fair on August 22.
There isa variety of committees to get involved
with throughout the year.

For students with a keen eye for blockbuster
movies, the Premier Films committee is alikely
home. For those whose taste runs more towards
the “‘artsy,” the Fine Films committee, in its
first year, may be a more apt fit, showcasing
smaller, independent movies and classics in the
art house tradition.

Another new committee, Recess, will take
students back to memories of middle school
with activities such as four square and dodge
ball. Interested students might want to refresh
their memories of middle school game rules
because the first event will be “Capture the
Flag” on Friday, September 3.

choreography that is a mixture of ballet, jazz,
and modern dance. -

Founded in 1991, the company has received
favorable reviews and presented sold out per-
formances.

Chicago City Limits, an improv comedy
group, will be featured Saturday, November 6.

Chicago City Limits was originally founded
in Chicago in 1977, relocating to New York in
1979 and establishing its own theater in 1980.
It has been there since and is now New York’s
longest running comedy revue. Chicago City
Limits has made frequent television appear-
ances including the “The Today Show”’.and
Comedy Central and has received rave reviews
from the New York Times and others.

Bruce Wood Dance Company will be per-
forming Friday, January 28,

Founded in 1996 and based out of Fort
Worth, the company features the choreogra-
phy of Bruce Wood. Mr. Wood has studied at
the School of American Ballet, spent four years
as a soloist with San Francisco Ballet, worked
as a principal dancer in Les Ballets Jazz de
Montreal, served as a guest artist for numerous
companies, and performed and taught through-
out the world.

The Poncho Sanchez Latin Jazz Band, fea-
turing the GRAMMY winning Poncho
Sanchez will perform Saturday, April 9.

Anamazing musician and bandleader in his
ownright, Sanchez was part of renowned Latin
vibraphonist Cal Tjader’s band from 1975 until
1982. Poncho Sanchez has released 21 albums
since his first record date in 1982 and has been
a major player in the world of Latin jazz.

With and impressive lineup for the year,
Davidson will be hosting groups that have an
international reputation. Said Bannerman,

“These are companies that travel the world.” .

Students who subscribe to the series receive

a 40-percent discount and faculty subscribers
receive a 30-percent discount. Students can re-
ceive as much as 40 dollars off the price of
tickets. Other perks to being a subscriber are
the guarantee of receiving the best seating
available for all four performances and also
opportunities to meet the artists.

After the September 10, 2004, performance
by Koresh Dance Company, there will be a
subscribers-only reception to meet and greet
with members of the company and Ronen
Koresh. Tickets can be purchased at the ticket
office in the Union and payment with Cat Card
is accepted.

Got Art?

Want to write for
AL, contact
sarobinson or

anmartin.

New committees and motto

In some minds the Board’s most important
committee, Artists Series will help bring many
different types of performers, the first being
Koresh Dance Company on September 10.

A final featured committee is Coffeehouse.

As the name suggests, the committee will have:

more intimate events where students can spend
close time with friends, while pursuing a vari-
ety of indoor activities.

Mickle strongly advises new and old students
to sign up for committees and have ideas turned
into realities.

Mickle and Union Board President Nathan
Cox ‘05 have been involved for most of their
time at Davidson and say it’s what they love.
Cox is optimistic and emphasizes the Boards
inclusive character of late.

With seven committees and seats to fill, the
Board provides ample opportunity for student
involvement. “I chose to join the Union Board
to make a difference on campus,” says Cox,
“The Union Board is now more conscious
because the board reflects the campus commu-
nity. Any successes we have | attribute to that.”

William Brown, Director of the
Union rides the toilet.

