THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004 5

Trustees, from page 1

but I was not unwilling to talk about it.”

Following the retreat, the Executive Com-
mittee of the Board appointed 10 trustees to
serve on an Ad Hoc Committee that would
study the possibility of changing or modifying
the Trustee religion requirement.

Around the same time as the retreat, the
Alumni Association unanimously expressed
“its support for the Board of Trustees in its ex-
amination of the requirement that all trustees
be ‘active members of a Christian Church’ and,
as it relates to alumni-elected trustees, the
Alumni Board encourages the Trustees to re-
move the Christian church membership re-
quirement thereby opening service on the
Board of Trustees to all alumni.”

While this decision by the Alumni associa-
tion was not a decisive factor pressuring the
Trustees to change, it did encourage the Board
to take up the issue.

“The major impact of the Alumni Associa-
tion request was to motivate us to focus on these
issues sooner rather than later,” said John
McCartney ’74, Chairman of the Board of
Trustees.

The Committee’s recommendation

The Ad Hoc Committee made three sepa-
rate recommendations to the Board.

First, that the College’s Statement of Pur-
pose be revised in order to “retain those essen-
tial affirmations that have shaped the college,
yet clarify and strengthen other portions that
speak to current questions and issues.”

Second, that Article I of the trustee bylaws
be changed in order to “strengthen the Board’s
commitment to the Statement of Purpose.”

And third, that the Trustees support “the
creation of an endowed chair in Reformed
Theology.”

McCartney emphasized that the committee
views all of these recommendations as bring-
ing Davidson closer to the College’ $ traditions.

me mt We

“These proposals are motivated by Trustee
thinking about how we express what Davidson
is and what we want Davidson to be, founded
on our collective faith and strong ties to the
Reformed Tradition,” McCartney said.

The proposed revisions to the Statement of
Purpose do not radically alter the document.
Rather, the Trustees wanted to clarify the
College’s relationship to the Presbyterian
Church.

Rev. Art Ross ’65, a Trustee who sat on the
Ad Hoc Committee said, “One of the principles
of the Reformed Tradition is as time goes by
one gets a clearer view. No statement will al-
ways be final. It will always be subject to be-
ing reformed . . . I think the new Statement of
Purpose sharpens our relationship tothe Church
and the makes the language a little clearer.”

After revising and reexamining the State-
ment of Purpose, the Committee decided that
“to require all Trustees to have such [Chris-
tian] membership is not consistent with the
Statement of Purpose of the Reformed Tradi-
tion of Christian faith.”

The Committee specifically pointed out that
“these recommendations were not made in the
first instance as a matter of equity, orin aneffort
to homogenize Davidson into a place that looks
more like other colleges. Rather, the basis for
our proposals was a theological one, relying
on the tenets of our faith as the foundation for
our suggestions.”

Vagt emphasized that the decision was based
on their theological understanding of the Re-
formed Tradition.

“While the issue of equity with respect to
alumni being able to serve is important, and,
while one might assume that this significant
change in policy makes Davidson appear more
welcoming, the primary basis for the
Committee’s recommendations is that they are
a better reflection of the theological founda-
tion of Davidson,” Vagt said.

Rogers also stressed the theological reason-

ec iisnrpcraarseeats

ing for this decision.
. “This recommendation drew out of our

. committee’s conversations about what ex-

presses the reformed tradition. This is not a
retreat or denial from the Reformed Tradition,”
he said.

The final recommendation from the commit-
tee asked for the Board’s support in creating an
endowed chair in Reformed Theology.

“The Trustee issue was not an isolated issue
but was part of a wider discussion that included
not only attention to the Statement of Purpose
but also to the questions of the academic pro-
gram, that is the teaching of Reformed Theol-
ogy in the Department of Religion,” said
Rogers.

For this reason, the committee felt it impor-
tant to emphasize the College’s historic ties to
the Reformed Church and allow for the instruc-
tion of Reformed theology at Davidson.

“As an expression of the importance of the
intellectual piece of the historic ties with this
faith tradition, the Committee challenged the
Board to sponsor a person who would be able
to instruct in this area,” said Vagt.

Until 1998, there had been professor special-
izing in Reformed Theology in the Religion
Department. However, since his departure,
there has been no specialist in Reformed The-
ology at Davidson.

The committee’s proposal will most likely
be voted on at the Trustees’ next meeting early
next semester.

Although there is no way to know exactly
how the Trustees will vote, there did seem to

be positive feelings from most members of the

Board.
“{The proposal] was very well received,”
said Rogers.
““We wantto have some more discussion, but
I think it’s just a matter of tweaking it some.”

Analyzing the recommendations

According to College Chaplain Rob Spach

’84, the proposed changes are clearly in line
with Davidson’s Reformed heritage.

“The Reformed tradition believes that we are
all finite and we are limited by our specific
context... this means we ought to remain open
to people of other traditions because it is pos-
sible that we can move closer to a fuller under-
standing of truth through our interactions,” said
Spach.

Spach believes that it is precisely because of
our Reformed tradition, not in spite of it, that
this change was possible.

“One of my concerns when I came here in
°93 was that we look at our religious tradition
ina way that is forward looking without letting
go of where we come from,” he said. “This de-
cision is an expression of that forward looking
tradition.”

In addition to these recommendations being
in line with the College’s Reformed heritage,
many believe that students should pay careful
attention to this decision.

Spach said that the decision is important be-
cause, “as students you don’t know if you will
someday want to be a trustee and the recom-
mendations make that a possibility for any stu-
dent.”

McCartney agreed, saying, “Under the by-
laws as interpreted when I was a student, I
would not have been eligible to serve as a
Trustee. It didn’t seem very relevant to me at
the time, but I’m glad there has been a change.”

Vagt also felt that this recommendation is
important for current Davidson students to un-
derstand.

When asked what the proposal meant for
non-Christian students at Davidson Vagt said,
“What I hope this proposal does not say is that
they [non-Christians] have been deemed lesser
people prior to its passage. What I hope it does
say is that this institution respects them for their
own faith traditions and trusts them to honor
the faith tradition on which this institution was
founded.”

es bus 14 ste ee

pport the etig

ULLON, |
