THE DAVIDSONIAN

Homecoming, from page 1
great way to connect alumni to the college
community,” Merrell said.

Merrell cited scheduling conflicts as his rea-
son for the decision.

“Due in large part to conference scheduling,
this year there are only four home football
games, one of which falls over fall break, an-
other of which overlaps with Discover
Davidson, the Admissions Office recruitment
weekend.”

The remaining two games are a game on No-
vember 13 and this one. In my judgment the
November game was too late for this weekend
because of the unpredictability of the weather
at that time,” he said. “It was the best of bad
choices and the college regrets it.”

Merrell pledged to become more aware of
religious holidays when planning major school
events. .

“(The Alumni Relations Office intends] to

_work closer with the Chaplain’s office to plan
major events and to avoid any future conflicts
with major religious holidays whenever pos-
sible,” he said.

Bradberry also expressed concern for the
implications of the decision.

“We should have informed student organi-
zations about our dilemma ahead of time,” she
said.

The Jewish student reaction

The Davidson Jewish population expressed
a wide variety of opinion in reaction to the cir-
cumstance.

“I was very surprised and disappointed by >

the decision, but I understand why they had to
do it,” said Jewish Student Union (JSU) Co-
President Kelly Kopeikin 05.

Others expressed concern about the situa-
tion.

“My main concern is that it is a big holiday
and that the Alumni Relations Office didn’t
consult us beforehand,” said JSU Co-President
Jess Heilweil ’05.

Heilweil and Kopeikin agreed that better

News

communication is necessary in preventing

these occurrences from happening in the fu-’
_ ture. -

“Communication between the Alumni Re-

lations Office and the JSU would have im-

proved the situation,” said Kopeikin. “We want
people to feel comfortable: in talking tous when
these situations arise.’

Some students felt that the situation was
understandable given the relatively small Jew-
ish population on campus, as well as the sup-
port that the college has given the organization
over the years.

Andrew Schapiro ’05 felt that it was more
important to look at the support and recogni-
tion that the Davidson community has given
the JSU over its three years of existence rather
than the mistakes that have been made.

He believed that Merrell issued a sincere
apology as well as a valid excuse for the over-
lap of the two. ;

Carrie Levy ’05 agreed.

“As roughly four percent of the campus, we
have to be realistic that the world will not re-
volve around us,” she said. “It feels wrong to
demonize Davidson when the administration,
and the chaplain’s office in particular, have been
nothing but welcoming and supportive to us
over at least the past three years.

“T think that instead of concentrating on how
we’ ve been wronged about Homecoming, we
should instead spend our energy on how we
can help people — Jews and non-Jews — that
make up our community,” Levy said.

Others, however, were not quite as forgiv-
ing.

Ina letter to Matt Merrell, Brian Orland ’07,
who is abroad in India, said, “To schedule
Homecoming on this day is an affront to Jew-
ish students and faculty at Davidson, and it
betrays the spirit of Davidson’s mission state-
ment ‘to have an openness to and respect for
the world’s various religions.’”

Several faculty members are also disap-
pointed.

“It’s disappointing because I know the col-

NOW OPEN!

Bring your Davidson ID
and receive |
a FREE Port City Java iced
or Brewed Coffee
for the month of September

Pastries

Muffins

° Bagels
Free Wireless Internet for All Customers

We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m.

) 19930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius
Neas McAllister'e Ooli « Exit 28, off 1.77

704-696-1900

worw.benjerry.com/devideos and

wn poritltyjove.com “

lege says it is committed to diversity, and fur-
thermore, the college mission statement stipu-
lates that the the college should have an open-
ness to and respect for all of the world’s reli-
gions.” said Associate Professor of Music and
JSU faculty advisor Neil Lerner.

“T cannot believe that anyone has acted out
of malice, which leaves ignorance of Yom
Kippur’s significance as a likely culprit. It’s
time for the college tp act in a more sensitive
way if it intends to follow its own mission state-
ment,” Lerner said.

Other student organizations also expressed
their concern for the selection.

The Religious Life Council, composed of
student representatives from and advisors to
all of the religious life groups in the Davidson
College community, wrote a letter to President
Vagt.

“We express our disappointment with the
college’s decision to schedule Homecoming
tooccuron Yom Kippur, which is the most holy
day of the year in the Jewish tradition,” said
the members of the Religious Life Council.
“While we recognize that this decision is irre-
versible at this late date, we unanimously urge
the college community to have integrity with
its stated purpose by being open to and respect-
ful of the religious concerns of the entire stu-
dent body in planning such events in the fu-
ture.”

Future scheduling goals

Although conflicts have never occurred on
sucha large scale as Homecoming, events such
as exams, lectures, and semi-formals have been
scheduled in contention with religious holi-
days.

Mari Cohen ’05S said, “Last year, my eating
house scheduled its semi-formal on Rosh
Hashanah. Since this was an event that was
specifically designed to welcome a part of the
campus community (in this case, the freshmen),
the eating house board refused to change the
date.”

Despite qualms with the college’s schedul-
ing policies, however, Davidson does not ob-
serve a procedure that puts religious events
before school activities.

- community,”

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 5°

“The college has not made it a mandatory
policy that no events can be scheduled on re-
ligious holy days. I agree with that policy, but
| also think that we as a community need vol-
untarily to be respectful of everyone in our
community by taking care not to schedule
college-wide events on such days,” said Col-
lege Chaplain Rob Spach.

In order to prevent these sorts of occurrences
from happening, Spach introduced an interfaith
calendar to the college last summer.

“The purpose of the calendar is simply to
provide the college community with easy ac-
cess to dates of special significance to religious
communities, so that those dates may be
avoided in program planning and in academic
scheduling,” he said. “The calendar was cre-
ated last year because this type of issue had
arisen a number of times in the past several
years.”

Last fall, the College Committee on Reli-
gious Life (CCRL) and the Ethnic Diversity
Committee requested that Spach compile a
calendar of religious holy days that would in-
clude days in traditions that are represented in
the college community.

Spach prepared a draft of that calendar and
it was reviewed by the CCRL and the Religious
Life Council in the spring.

The calendar was sent out last June to all of
the college’s vice presidents and administra-
tors.

Many community members feel that the
calendar should now be a serious consideration
when the college plans events.

“The people in charge of scheduling need.to
consider how their decisions may impact the
said Lerner.

“We ask [that the administration] communi-
cate strongly to faculty and staff the importance
of consulting the religious life calendar distrib-
uted by the Office of the Chaplain when plan- _
ning college activities,” said the Religious Life
Council in the letter that it sent to President
Vagt.

The website location of the interfaith calen-
dar is pending. Spach is currently awaiting a
reply from ITS about setting up a link from the
religious life “Welcome” page.

Bush, from page 1

visitors who attended the town hall forum,
while others screened visitors and directed traf-
fic for attendees.

Margaret Whipple, ’07, was one of more than
ten Davidson volunteers at the rally. “I really
enjoyed getting to know other people from
North Carolina,” said Whipple, whose volun-
teer responsibilities allowed her to interact with
many of the rally’s thousands of guests. “The
support for the president was tremendous, and
it really pumped me up for the election,” she
added.

College Republicans chairman Joseph
Adams ’06 spent extra hours in Charlotte dur-
ing the days leading up to the event, helping
with ticket distribution, last-minute phone calls,
and travel arrangements for the presidential

staff.

While John Kerry enjoyed a sizable lead in
the polls among female voters, over the last
two months President Bush has pulled almost
even with Kerry among women.

Meanwhile, the president’s campaign trip to
Charlotte focused on gaining more support
from women. The L.A. Times reported:

“Before a largely female audience, he pro-
moted his tax cuts as beneficial to female-
owned businesses, and argued that the U.S.
involvement in Afghanistan and Iraq had im-
proved conditions for women in those coun-
tries.”

Adams said,“President Bush passionately
and cogently made his case to the women of
North Carolina during Friday’s town hall dis-
cussion.”

GRILLED CHEESE ~

%

‘“—Waeze Caetano

VEGGIE MELT — VEGGIE BURGER ~ VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
N SWEET POTATO FRIES — CAESAR SALAD

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE
Me HOMEMADE ORANGEADE. LEMONADE AND LIMEADE -

you dnt think of us
Ser. vegetarian fare!

i Sodas fi,

VEGETABLE SOUP

“Eatin Take-out

: _896- 7743

HEN sre

see ..sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9.

