THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004

Wildcats drops 7th straight to rival Paladins

photo by Peter Rou
Rob Haywood ’04 demonstrates
excellent pronation on his serve.

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

In what has become arguably Davidson’s
most intense rivalry in men’s tennis, if not for
competitive nature then for the animosity and
heightened emotions between the two teams,
the Wildcats hosted the Furman Paladins Sun-
day at the Covington Courts. After traveling
to Greenville the last two years to face Furman
in a raucous setting, the Wildcats hoped to take
advantage of the home match and put an end
to their six-match losing streak against the
Paladins.

At the end of the day, though, a combina-
tion of unfavorable conditions, sloppy play,
and the characteristic gamesmanship of the

Furman players and fans resulted in a 6-1 de-

“feat for Davidson, their seventh straight loss

to Furman and their third loss in three confer-
ence matches. ;

The doubles competition featured the high -

energy, high-emotion points that are charac-
teristic of Davidson’s matches with Furman.
Bryan Stonestreet ’04 and Russ Bums ’05
played great tennis at number three to win their
match 8-6, while Jonathan Britt 04 and Rob
Gould ’04 suffered another disappointing loss
at number two, falling 8-3.

The often pivotal doubles point came down
to the number one match, in which Rob
Haywood ’04 and Donald Miles ’05 fought
hard to overcome their opponents. After fall-
ing behind early and faltering in a comeback
attempt, Haywood and Miles ultimately suc-
cumbed to their opponents 8-5, granting
Furman the doubles point and the early 1-0
lead. ;

Furman gained the early momentum, put-
ting the Wildcats at a disadvantage in a match
where gaining an early lead was key.

“We were capable of winning the doubles,”
said head coach Jeff Frank. “I think if we had
won [the doubles point] it would have made a
huge difference [in the outcome of the
match].”

While Davidson managed to win the first
set in three of the six singles matches, the ’Cats
fell far behind in the other three matches as
Furman carried its momentum into the singles
competition. The Wildcats were unable to of-
fer the Paladins much resistance at the one,
two, and four singles positions, losing those
three matches fairly quickly to give Furman
an insurmountable advantage.

Despite struggling at one, two, and four,
Davidson got some strong performances at the
three, five, and six positions from Stonestreet,

Burns, and Porus Jetli ’07, respectively.
Stonestreet earned the only singles victory on
the day for the ’Cats with a 7-5, 6-3 win at
number three, while Burns and Jetli each won

the first set of their matches before falling in-

three sets after the overall match had already
been decided.

“Bryan played a great match, one of his best
matches all season,” said Frank. As for Burns
and Jetli, Frank observed that they each “had
a real let down [after winning the first] and
should’ ve won those matches.”

Despite the 6-1 loss, the team may be en-
i ai by their future prospects against
Furman, perhaps in the SoCon tournament
next month. The doubles competition was
tight and could have swung Davidson’s way,
as were the matches at five and six. The un-
usually inconsistent play from the Wildcats’
other singles players is another aspect of the
match that could change in the future. The
players know now that they are capable of
playing close with the Paladins, and they
know what they must do to change the result
next time.

This week the men put their 6-5 overall
record and 0-3 conference record on the line
as they host Chattanooga on Friday and South
Carolina State University on Saturday. In a

‘ match that Frank described as “winnable, but

close,” Chattanooga will be a tough test for
Davidson, as the Mocs were picked to finish
just behind Davidson in the preseason coaches
poll. South Carolina State represents
Davidson’s second-to-last non-conference
match of the season, and the primarily for-
eign team should also challenge the ’Cats.

With five of their last nine matches on the
road, the bottom line is clear. According to
Frank, “We’ve got to start winning matches
at home.”

Weights onto the ground
jiolently that the CD player skips and the
building shakes” is Pastorius’ number-one
frustration. “Yes, we get it; you’re lifting
weights. Congratulations. Dropping weights
means you’re not strong enough to handle
them, and it endangers those around you.”

Franz was only partly done with his rant,
though, going on to tackle the issue of lifters
with bad form who feel the need to grunt
louder than that unidentified freshman boot-
ing in your hall trash can.

“Once, a guy was huffing and puffing so
loudly that I expected his water to break at
any moment. Grunting loudly bothers those
around you, and lifting with bad form only
cheats yourself,” Pastorius concludes.

So for all those serious lifters out there,
good luck. It takes a lot of work, and the

_ facilities may not be the best in the nation,

but if you work hard enough, you just might
earn those Mighty Mouse muscles here at
Davidson.

And maybe one day you, too, can be com-
pared to Fabio.

The 2004 Bank of America Conference

these pressing issues.

SUNDAY, MARCH 28

MONDAY, MARCH 29

NATIONAL INTERESTS/GLOBAL CHALLENGES:
PROSPERITY, SECURITY & SOVEREIGNTY IN THE 21ST CENTURY

MARCH 28 - 31, 2004

This four-day conference, made possible by a generous gift from Bank of America, features a series of distinguished
speakers who will explore the political, economic, and environmental challenges facing our highly interdependent world.
The conference presents a truly unique opportunity to listen to these experts, ask questions, and think critically about

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS

8pm, Duke: The Exhaustion of Sovereignty
Opening address by Dr. Stephen Krasner, Professor of
International Relations, Stanford University

3pm, 900 Room: Global Trade & Nat'l Economic Interests
Afternoon panel with Ambassador Charlene Barshefsky, former US
Trade Representative, and Thea Lee, AFL-ClO

8pm, Duke: Trade, Sovereignty & Challenges of Development
Evening address by Dr. Kwesi Botchwey, Executive Director,
African Development Policy Ownership Initiative

For more info, go to www.davidson.edu/international
or call the Dean Rusk Program (704-894-2440).

MBRR RRB RRR RRR RRR RR RRR RRR RRR RRR eee

TUESDAY, MARCH 30

3pm, 900 Room: Preemption, Deterrence & Politics of Alliances
Afternoon panel with Radek Sikorski, American Enterprise Institute,
and Kurt Campbell, Center for Strategic and International Studies

8pm, Duke: The 2004 Wearn Lecture
The Next Security Crisis: Global Threats & US Foreign Policy

Dr. Fareed Zakaria, Editor, Newsweek International

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31

3pm, 900 Room: The Global Politics of Sustainable Development
Afternoon panel with Stephen Mills, Sierra Club, and Kathryn
Washburn, US Department of the Interior

8pm, Duke: Can We Save the World without the US?
Evening address by David Runnalls, President, International
Institute on Sustainable Development

