6

‘Miracle’ the film does
justice to ‘Miracle on Ice’

By STEVE KALISKI

Senior Staff Writer

While the title “Miracle” literally refers to
play-by-play announcer Al Michael’s emo-
tional response to the greatest underdog story
in sports history, it also represents Disney’s
stunning accomplishment in making an obvi-
ously predictable movie feel fresh and invigo-
rating. Although we never doubt the ending to
this seemingly standard sports flick, the
journey’s-worth multiple visits.

Beautifully filmed and wonderfully per-
formed, “Miracle” well surpasses expectations
and should exhilarate anyone who paid a lick
of attention to the 1980 Olympics Games in
Lake Placid.

For those of us too young to remember this
extraordinary triumph overthe odds, “Miracle”
is still intensely satisfying. This reenactment
of the USA team’s rags-to-riches surge over
the Soviet hockey monopoly perfectly captures
the near-mythic joy of underdog glory.

In my case, the movie transported me back
just a few weeks, to when the Carolina Pan-
thers were making their impossible run at a
Super Bowl ring. Although that was profes-
sional football and this is Olympic hockey, the
parallels were enough to send countless chills
up my spine. “Miracle” is not the best sports
movie ever made, but it is the only one to make
the aura of an unlikely season feel so personal.

Having taken gold medals for the entire ’60s
and ’70s, the Soviet team was winning the
hockey race by a mile while the United States
had only captured the space race by a thread.
When it came to sticks and pucks and ice rinks,
the Russians embarrassed their international
rivals in every respect.

“Miracle” begins in the summer before the
1980 games, when respected collegiate coach

. STICAL hk

Russell, looking on mid-miracle

Miracle
Directed by: Gavin

O’Connor

Written by: Eric
Guggenheim

Starring: Kurt Russell

of rebuilding the USA team to a level of re-
spectability. Believing that the only way to
defeat the Soviets is to imitate their style of
play, Brooks fills his squad with average play-
ers whocombine to create an exceptional team.

Most of the movie focuses on Brooks’s in-
tense training of the boys, as if to emphasize
the fact that no one could beat the Russians
without some irrationally exhausting condi-
tioning first. -If the running time of 135 min-
utes is a bit too drawn out for this genre, it’s
because director Gavin O’Connor does not
want to downplay the volume of preparation
that contributed to this major upset. .

Several factors lift “Miracle” out of cliched
sports territory and into the arena of excellent
entertainment. Russell’s performance is, with-
out a doubt, the most important ingredient. This
often-boring actor finally finds arole in the stoic
Brooks that mixes well with his affinity for
understatement.

The filmmakers quickly establish their de-
cision to tell the story through Brooks’ perspec-
tive—a move that lends determined concen-
tration to an event that, in real life, was sur-
rounded with unruly patriotism. Through
Brooks’ eyes, the filmmakers keep a politically
charged momentin history more about hockey
skills than displays of national supremacy.

Once the games begin, cinema’s best hockey

scenes fly at the audience with a kinetic jolt of

energy. Capturing the merciless speed of this
painfully nerve-racking sport with far more
assuredness than any “Mighty Ducks” movie,
O’Connor breathes life into a tournament that
has been over for twenty-four years.

As the sound of the buzzer approaches in the
final seconds of the Soviet-USA match-up,
O’Connor blurs the previously crystal-clear

. lens ever so slightly. Michaels’s voice drifts

through the speakers as ina great sports dream,
and Brooks quickly excuses himself from the
celebrations, knowing that such an improbable
victory will undoubtedly be relived for years
to come. :

THE DAvIDSONIAN
) WEDNESDAY
Fesruary 18, 2004

One woman’s adventures

in ‘Strip’-town Cabaret

By KayYLeen HARTMAN
Senior Staff Writer

Various adventures present themselves dur-
ing the college student’s sojourn into quasi-
adult independence. We are legal adults, but
we are sophomoric enough to fall victim to
sporadic bursts of bad taste and shady indis-
cretion. I have been known to spark one up on
the IMAC fields, scoot up to Statesville for
dildo shopping, and venture to Carowinds ina
minivan loaded with more beer pound-for-
pound than people. Having survived, I was only
mildly alarmed when a friend suggested that
we spend Sunday night celebrating in adown-
town Charlotte strip club.

I knew the gentleman’s club; its electric
purple trim and neon green signs had often
distracted my attention during disoriented turns
down Tryon Street. Newly 21 and up for any-
thing, I decided to set my reservations aside in
the name of friendship and join the group gath-
ered at the not-so-aptly named Uptown Caba-
ret for beers and breasts.

Ladies—and I presume the proprietors ap-
ply the term “lady” as loosely as most com-
mercial establishments—always get in free.
The casual female guest can navigate an
evening at the strip club while abstaining from
economic participation in the legalized pur-
chase of human flesh. If she can manage to
avoid excessive consumption of overpriced
drinks and limit the distribution of bills to
singles (a friend witnessed a $50 bill tucked
into one woman’s g-string), it’s actually
cheaper than a night out bowling.

As far as strip clubs go, this one could have
been seedier. Basic health codes appeared to
be in tact, and the overall atmosphere attempted
something like sophistication. I began to relax
and asked a cocktail waitress in fantastic-look-
ing fishnets to see a wine list. Faux pas number
one. She returned with the rest of the group’s
brews and informed me that I could have ei-
ther an unidentified Merlot or an unidentified
Chardonnay. Wishing that I had just ordered a
stiff drink instead, I requested the Merlot and
refocused my attention. A friend reminded me
sagely, “Most people don’t come here to en-
joy the wine.”

www.uptowncabaret.net

Uptown Cabaret: Under the
microscope

I observed the striptease, something I am
fatniliar with from late-night HBO sexuality
specials and the movie “Dancing at the Blue
Iguana,” I appreciated the variety of breasts
my companions and I were presented with for
entertainment; of course there were the usual
falsies, but certain girls marketed a more natu-
ral look. We saw everything from cute little
teardrops to firm round apples. The one con-

‘stant, however, was the pair of six-inch stiletto

platforms that each woman kept tightly
strapped to her feet. No matter how many other
articles of clothing she shed—lace, fluff, silk
or satin, her feet remained glued to the tower-
ing patent leather. I was momentarily non-
plussed by this exemption. What woman keeps
her shoes on when she’s making whoopee?

I slowly began to suspect that it was more
about creating an artificial pedestal that moved
with the women as they moved. Rocking arched
feet and flexed calves, the strippers sulked and
half-heartedly thrust themselves around the
stage. It didn’t seem to matter that their facial
expressions occasionally bordered on bored or
evenannoyed. The 60-something inches ofleg,
hip, navel and nipple displayed atop perpetu-
ally pointed toes was enough to distract the
average patron into tucking a bill into a slowly

gyrating g-string.

My objection is
this: the only notable
claim these women
have to making a liv-
ing is their ability to
display naked breasts,
an all-over tan and
perfectly kept roots.

At one point, I happened to notice that every
female employee had perfectly airbrushed false
nails. I pondered the strangeness of that acrylic
charade, the false expense of manually strip-
ping and restructuring one’s hands every month
to maintain the illusion of grooming or glam-
our.

And maybe my real problem was this: these
women weren’t even using their hands in an
interesting or provocative way. Although dur-
ing my foray into the world of fornication/simu-
lation I encountered the source of my feminist
reservations about the concept of a strip club,
I think something like stripping could be done
artfully. Although I’d prefer a more private
venue for that sort of thing, I recognize that by
modern standards, I am a prude.

However, I never obect to nudity in general.
My objection is this: the only notable claim
these women have to making a living is their
ability to display naked breasts, an all-over tan
and perfectly kept roots. There was no art to
the way they used their hands, and there was no
art to the way they used their bodies. I was more
than disappointed. Steathily, I checked to see
if | was wearing matching lingerie. I realized
that I had serendipitously donned a black coor-
dinating Victoria’s Secret set after my last
shower and thought briefly about hollering to
the DJ for some sexy slow rock tune and storm-
ing the stage myself. Then I realized that that
shower had been a day or two before, and my
last close shave some time in late December. I
decided that it was best to keep my stylistic
critiques private.

I watched a montage of female flesh take the
stage through a haze of cigarette smoke, the
bite of a mediocre merlot, and the buzz of
pseudo-intellectual conversation. As I sat
wedged into a booth with a handful of my fel-
low academics, I listened to and participated in
the discussion of several schools of feminist
thought on what it means.to have men toss and
tuck money at these statuesque legs and shud-
dering bosoms in exchange for the promise of
a bit of friction or a whispered kiss. The next
table over, a nice girl about my age untied her
halter for an obliging customer just as I caught
myself nodding along to the phrase, “the capi-
talism of objectification.” It may have been the
only time in my life when I wondered to my-
selfifin fact, liberalism and lewdness justdon’t
mix. |
