THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘Restaurant Review

ARIS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004 7

Vietnamese food: the new frontier i in Asian cuisine

a
<3)

pos ~y,

The Vietnamese specialty Bun.
By ANDREW SCHAPIRO AND VIRGINIA GREGORY

Restaurant Reviewers

In the past few years, anumber of new Thai,
Chinese, and Japanese have popped up in the
Davidson area to cater to the growing demand

for Asian cuisine. New on the scene, however,”

is Mai Cafe, which fills the void in Vietnam-
ese food that previously plagued this stretch of
I-77.

While Vietnamese often goes unrecognized
in favor of more popular Thai and Chinese
counterparts, one visit to Mai Cafe is bound to
win you over. The synthesis of the unique food,
sophisticated atmosphere, and accommodat-
ing staff yields an extraordinary dining expe-
rience

Owner Jenny Hoang, who moved to the
United States from Vietnam about 18 years ago,
opened Mai Cafe this past June. Located in the
Magnolia Estates shopping center in Cornelius,
Mai Cafe is slightly off the beaten path but this
has not keptit from being discovered by throngs
of Davidson professors. After a number of
faculty raved about the restaurant, we decided
to try it out only to find half a dozen professors
dining there the same night.

The tiny restaurant’s facade is plain with only
a small sign above the door, but the interior is
quite another story. The dining room is a strik-
ing contrast of white paneled walls, and black
booths and chairs. Unique pieces of art hang
over each high banquette which creates a more
private atmosphere for diners. Larger parties
can request to sit in the back nook of the restau-
rant which is more intimate though equally el-
egant.

By Monica JAMONEAU
Special Contributor

From what I remember about First Night
Down, it was pretty good. Patterson Court
wasn’t too hard to find, and I love dancing. The
only problem came from the spaghetti dinner
at Chambers lawn that afternoon. I thought it
tasted alright, but an unusually large number
of students were sick later that night, so there
must have been something wrong with the
preparation.

I’m pretty sure that the guy I hooked up with
was cute. For some reason, though, when I tried
to find him in the facebook, there was no list-
ing for an Alfredo Rigatoni. I must have heard
him wrong. But it doesn’t matter since I'll
probably see him a lot around campus. Even if
my memory is a bit blurry when it comes to his
face, I do remember he had a really hot tattoo,
I thought it was strange that the naked mer-
maid on his forearm seemed to come off a little
when I rubbed it, but he assured me that he had
only just gotten it, so flaking was normal.

I may have ended the night with Alfredo,
but I began it with my roommate at the court.
I had never been to a frat party before, and I

get high marks for style, while vinyl table cloths
and mauve polyester napkins leave something
to be desired. The red leather stools at the tiled
bar clashed with the simplicity of the decor,
but the drink menu was replete with inventive
cocktails and a decent selection of wine. As a
whole, the ambiance is perfect for all occasions
whether it be a casual lunch with friends or a
special occasion.

All of the dishes that we tried at Mai Cafe
contained high quality ingredients, filled their
plates artistically, and gave off wonderfully
distinct aromas. We feel confident that the
handful of entrees we sampled well represent
the Cafe’s extensive menu of over one hun-
dred items.

Some details like the trendy, square plates P

saw a lot of people I had never met, which
slightly intimidated me. This senior guy taught
me how to introduce myself, though, so by the
end of the night I knew all of the guys, and
some of the girls. I’m still not sure where my
roommate went, but I hope she gets back soon.

’ Speaking of upperclassmen, they are all so
nice! Every time I got thirsty, one of the older
kids would offer me something to drink. At
first, the soda tasted funny, but Alfredo told
me that was just because frats don’t have a lot
of money to spend on refreshments. They must
have gotten in a better shipment toward the end
of the night—I drank a lot of it, so it couldn’t
have been that bad. It was obvious that every-
one but me had had a lot of alcohol.

Once the earth stopped spinning from ex-
erting myself so hard on the dance floor, I
noticed some crazy stuff, including a bunch of
girls dancing onatable. I’ m just glad that I was
smart and limited myself to dnly a few glasses
of vodka after my last class on Friday. Even
somebody with my high tolerance can become
stupid if she drinks too much.

By the way, if anybody finds ared lace thong
in the bushes behind Phi Delt, this girl I know
kind of wants it back.

Owner Hoang recommended the spicy
chicken with lemongrass as one of the more
popular dishes, and it turned out to be the most
stereotypical of our entrees. An abundance of
chicken came sauteed with bell peppers and
onions in a lightly spicy sauce that was hardly
reconciled to the flavors of each ingredient.

Our Bun Special, a room temperature bowl
of rice vermicelli noodles with grilled pork and
shrimp, topped with vegetables, mint, and fi-
nally accompanied by an egg roll amazingly
maintained the integrity of each of its distinct
components.

Even the clear garlic sauce that comes with
the Bun Special mingled well with the other
flavors. Pan fried noodles dishes come with
the choice of four types of noodles including
the curry vermicelli variety, which we found
in a delicate nest beneath tender chicken and

_ crisp vegetables.

The most inventive dish we sampled, and
another of the most popular on the menu, comes
under the heading of Do Nuong, which is a
Vietnamese interpretation of fajitas with ingre-
dients like pickled carrot, daikon, pineapple,
mint, and soft rice noodles. Sizzling beef and
onion arrived along with a bowl of hot water
used to soften the rice paper wrappers. We
proceeded to pack and wrap, each time pairing
different vegetables and herbs with beef within
delicately smooth rice paper. A peanut sauce
with chili paste and chopped nuts tasted more
like a standard plum sauce but perfectly
complimented our make-shift egg rolls.

Mai Cafe offers a more expensive version of
the Do Nuong prepared tableside for two people
with ingredients like lobster, salmon, and sea
scallops. Hoang was enthusiastic about offer-
ing Vietnamese style fondue come winter.

Daily specials and tasting menus are varied and
constantly available and, on our visit, we found
an entryway table covered with photographs
of a nine-course tilapia tasting menu for two
people, both of whom would have to be dis-
cerning gourmets.

The staff was extremely friendly and atten-
tive, evidenced by our water glasses which were
never less than half full. Both of our servers,
which seemed to be the entire waitstaff that
evening, were eager and able to field numer-
ous questions about the ingredients and prepa-
rations of the dishes. They patently explained
the different consistencies and shapes of all the
noodles and introduced us to purple basil mint,
which neither of us had ever encountered be-
fore.

The only snag in the otherwise perfect ser-
vice was that dishes seemed to arrive on an
unorthodox schedule. One entree was pre-
sented before the appetizer was finished, and
the other two followed on five minute inter-
vals. This kink will probably work itself out as
Mai Cafe ages to a succesful and mature
restauranthood; since most dishes were in-
tended to be passed around and shared, it did
not pose an enormous problem. .

Prices at Mai Cafe cater to all budgets. Al-
mostall of the lunch entrees fall under $8, while
dinner prices range from $10 for noodle bowls
to over $70 for elaborate shared meals. Hoang
offers a 10% discount for Davidson students
who present their cat cards. If elaborate praise
alone seems unconvincing, hopefully the dis-
count will tip the scales since Cornelius’ Mai
Cafe is sure to please those who wish to ven-
ture beyond routine Thai and Chinese cuisine.

Mai Cafe
8301 Magnolia Estates Dr. #11
Cornelius, NC 28031
704-892-9171

M-Th: | lam-2:30 and 4:30-10pm
F-Sun: 1 lam-10pm

Mai Cafe
Food: A
Atmopshere: A-

Service: B+
Dinner for 2: $45

