( ain pus Pc y|

2/16 Student Union

Missing Property
Student reports that on Saturday February 14th while walking from the Union to Baker
Sports complex they lost their cellular phone valued at approximately $150.00. Phone is

described as a Nokia 6800, ashe in color.

2/16 Student Union

Missing Property

Student reports that sometime between February 7th 11:30 p.m. and February 8th 1:00
a.m. they lost their cell phone while attending a party in the 900 room in the Student Union.
The cell phone is described as a silver Verizon. Value at approximately $100.00.

217 Baker Parking Lot . Missing Car

Student reports that their black, 1992 Chevrolet Lumina was missing from Baker Sports
parking area. The vehicle was last seen on Thursday February 12th parked close to the Motor
Pool vehicles.

WS

WEbNEsDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004

Kouchner speaks about Nobel

Prize-winning organization

‘Doctors Without Borders’
co-founder addresses chal-
lenges of ‘humanitarian

intervention’

By BLairn McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Dr. Bernard Kouchner, one of the founders
of the Nobel Peace Prize-winning Medecins
Sans Frontieres (Doctors Without Borders),
spoke in Duke Family Performance Hall on
Monday night.

The Dean Rusk International Studies Pro-
gram helped to sponsor the appearance of
Kouchner, whom many regard as the architect
of “humanitarian invention.”

In 1971, Kouchner was among the small

group of French doctors who founded .

Medecins Sans Frontieres (MSF).

The non-profit organization provides aid to
victims in more than 80 countries for emer-
gencies ranging from injuries from armed con-
flict to those caused by natural disasters, as well
as helping those people who live in geographi-
cal and social isolation and therefore lack
healthcare.

During the lecture, he spoke of his experi-
ences at MSF and also of his other humanitar-
ian efforts, including combating AIDS in Af-
rica.

Kouchner described how he and other doc-
tors were inspired in the late 1960s.

“We discovered that all of the rest of the
world, apart from the rich countries, were suf-
fering” from starvation, lack of doctors and
medical care, among other things, Kouchner
said.

Kouchner spoke about the evolution of in-
ternational medical aid, detailing how it used
to be necessary to have permission from the
government of another country to treat its vic-
tims.

Forty years ago, “you had no right to cross
a border and help patients,” he said.

Kouchenr described how eventually he and
several other doctors began to enter other coun-
tries, even though they lacked permission to
help. ;

TERRY’S TAXI

Serving Iredell and
Mecklenburg County

24 Hour Service

Daytime: (704)663-941 1, (704)663-9413
Evenings: (704)663-9415, (704)663-9812
If you need transportation to and from
the airport, bus station, or other areas
call Terry’s Taxi
Over 50 years of service

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

Kouchner believes his efforts of spreading
compassion “drew a perspective of patients
without borders,” that helped to globalize
medical care.

While by no means ignoring the still present
AIDS epidemic, he gave the exantple of the
price decrease of AIDS treatment from its early
stages.

Compassion was an important theme of
Kouchner’s lecture.

“Tt comes from you, it depends on you, and
this is your choice,” he told the audience. ““We
have to take care of the people without theatre
and university,” and that “starts with the medi-
cal field.”

Dr. Chris Alexander, Director of the Dean
Rusk International Studies Program, said
Kouchner appeared at Davidson chiefly
through the Echo foundation in Charlotte that

Dean Rusk ensures “that every
student gets an international
education, regardless of major.
Kouchner really does have
something useful and
important to say to members of
all disciplines.”

--Dr. Chris Alexander,
Director of Dean Rusk
International Studies Program

had brought Kouchner in for its own annual
awards banquet.

The public lectures committee, the East
Asian Studies Program, the French and Politi-
cal Science Departments, the Vice President
for Academic Affairs, and Dr. Ozzy and Mrs.
Patsy Reynolds also contributed resources for
Kouchner’s visit.

One goal of Dean Rusk is to ensure “that
every Davidson student gets an international
education, regardless of major,” said
Alexander. “Kouchner really does have some-
thing useful and important to say to members
of all disciplines.”

Besides being one of MSF’s founders,
Kouchner also served in France as Minister of
State for Social Integration, Minister of State
for Humanitarian Action, and Minister of
Health.

United Nations Secretary General Kofi
Annan appointed Koucher to serve as U.N.

' Special Representative for Peacekeeping in

Kosovo in 1999.

Kouchner is the author several books, the
most recent being “Les Guerriers de la Paix”
(Warriors of Peace), which, among other top-
ics, describes the time Kouchner spent in
Kosovo.

“PANINI” $4.99 |
FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET

Shops on the Green + 177@ Exit 28
704-896-3190 * www.ferruccis.com

POPE ist

ee

*
