_NEws _

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to )

start a career as an Army Linguist. This

experience will help prepare you for a
future in business, government agencies,

embassy work and more! You'll also get

English training (if needed) and receive -
quick advancement in rank. 4
See your local Army Reserve Recruiter

or visit arabic.goarmy.com/2

_ Wepnespay, Marcu 31, 2004

College continues Watson
streak with 70th Fellow

By Ben WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Thanks to animpressive academic record and
aclever grant proposal, Gray Lyons ’04 is the
newest member in Davidson’s unbroken streak
of Watson Fellows. .

After graduation, Lyons will spend a year
studying breads in France, Hungary, India,
Vietnam and Trinidad.

Established in 1968, the Watson Fellowship
provides recipients $22,000 fora year of inde-
pendent study around the globe.

Applicants must submit a preplanned project

“My project will look at
bread’s role in religious
ceremonies, rites of passage,
holidays, and various other
anthropological aspects of
breads.”

involving an area related to their interest. The
Fellowship then reviews the proposed project
along with almost every conceivable aspect of
the student.

Anoriginal field of 35 Davidson seniors was
slimmed down to four finalists by the school.
The proposals and transcripts of these four fi-
nalists were submitted to the Watson Fellow-
ship that selected Lyons as one of 50 Watson
Fellows for the 2004-2005 year.

While every participating college and uni-
versity submits four finalists per year, there is
no guarantee that any candidate will be chosen
a winner.

Davidson has had a Watson Fellow every
year since joining the program in 1969.

Raised in Birmingham, Alabama, Lyons was
attracted by the opportunity to travel outside
the Southeast.

Although not his first time outside the coun-
try, Lyons’ target destinations will take him to
exotic locations across the globe.

“T partially picked them because they are in
distinct parts of the world that I want to visit,”
said Lyons.“Also, they all have different types ©
of bread and different traditions.”

Despite his scientific orientation, Lyons’
project delves into cultural studies of bread and
its functions in society.

“My project will look at bread’s role in reli-
gious ceremonies, rites of passage, holidays and
various other anthropological aspects of

breads,” he said. ;
According with the Fellowship’s terms,

 Watson’s project will also deal with Lyons’ past

line of study by analyzing of the nutritional
aspects of bread in each country.

“It’s an ideal proposal for Gray because it
blends his personal interest in baking with his
professional interest in health care,” said Dr.
Malcolm Campbell, a Watson Fellow in 1984
and Lyon’s honors thesis advisor.

‘The terms of the fellowship do not allow
Lyons to return to the United States during his
year abroad.

“Although it sounds glamorous, it is a very
lonely year,” said Campbell. “It’s been very
influential in my life, and I’m sure it will be in
Gray’s too.”

“Tt will send me out into the world and help
me learn and grow as a person,” said Lyons.

Abiology major, Lyon’s honor thesis on gene
therapy was recently approved.

Lyons’ thesis stemmed from two years of re-
search he conducted at the University of Ala-
bama-Birmingham, under the guidance of Dr.
Joanne Douglas.

The research related to the use of gene
therapy in improving bone formation...

“Through his research, Gray has developed
a sophisticated understanding of molecular
biology and genetics,” said Dr. Karen Hales, a
member of the Davidson biology department
involved in Lyons’ thesis development. “He is
skilled atcommunicating that understanding.”

After returning from the Watson, Lyons will
attend medical school, where he will pursue

Gray Lyons ’04

