-4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, MArcH 24, 2004

Film and Media concentration
to be added to curriculum

By Katie PFEIFFER
Staff Writer

The 2004-2005 school year will see the ad-
dition of a Film and Media Studies concentra-
tion to the ten concentrations already currently
offered.

According to Dr. Alan Singerman, the fac-
ulty liaison, creating a concentration in film is
the result of a long-term special interest in
media on the part of both faculty members and
students.

The concentration may be fulfilled by nu-
merous courses scattered across nine depart-
ments: Anthropology, Chinese, English,
French, German, History, Music, Psychology,
and Spanish.

Many classes that now complement the con-
centration are ones that have been offered in
previous years but until now only counted to-
wards specific majors.

Singerman hopes that the creation of the
concentration will encourage the interest in film
at Davidson.

“It rewards students who are willing to do a
sufficient amount of work on film/as an inter-
national and interdisciplinary phenomenon to
gain a relatively in-depth knowledge of the
subject and an ability to appreciate its subtle-
ties,” he said.

The film concentration will require the
completion of six courses: Introduction to Film
and Media Studies (CIS 220) and a seminar
varying in subject according to professor, as
well as four electives.

In general, the concentration is centered
around film as it enhances other subjects. The
mandatory courses, therefore, will give stu-
dents a foundation in the art of film itself prior
to a study of its applications.

The process of creating the concentration
was, according to Singerman, not difficult,
since the college has had the resources and
faculty support for a while.

There are continued hopes for academic and
financial investment in film and film produc-
tion as the concentration gets under way.

Next year’s introductory class will be taught
by Professor of Music Neil Lerner and the
seminar will be taught by Professor of English
Zoran Kuzmanovich.

For those students interested in the film in-
dustry in addition to the liberal arts perspec-
tive on film, courses in that area will be appli-
cable to the concentration.

Despite its visible benefits, the introduction
of another concentration raises the question of
whether Davidson’s courses of study are be-
coming too specific and therefore becoming
incompatible with the idea of a liberal arts edu-
cation.

As the number of majors/minors and con-
centrations offered to students increases, there
may be a corresponding decrease in the sub-
ject matter that is studied by individual stu-
dents.

Singerman does not believe that this will be
the case. The film concentration represents a
needed branching out of academic options and
is the answer to an already established founda-
tion of support for the study of film and media,
he said.

He believes “knowing how to ‘read’ a film
can lead to a whole lifetime of more sophisti-
cated and more enriching experiences with
film.”

In this light, the film concentration will only
help to sharpen the analytical tools that are so
prized by the liberal arts institution. Singerman
said.

75%

25%

~ 4

& | ie, oF : te
See og %

“Liq se
SS OF

Senior Class Gift Update

oo%* Congratulations, Seniors!
The Senior Class Gift has
reached 78.2% PAID
participation

LET’S HAVE ANOTHER
RECORD BREAKING
YEAR,
THE CLASS OF 2003’S

PARTICIPATION OF 84%

To pay your pledge online,
visit The Annual Fund website at
www.davidson.edu/ giving
or mail check or cash to The
Annual Fund, Box 7170.

Please contact Maria Tardugno
(x2113) with questions

Have a fabulous Spring Break!

AND SURPASS

Graffiti, from page 1

continue to happen on this campus. This is
precisely the kind of blind and ignorant hate
that the GSA tries to combat, regardless of its
form. Davidson’s campus has come along way
in becoming more welcoming to its gay stu-
dents but there is obviously still a lot of work
to be done,” said Talbert.

Marsicano said, “For a Davidson student or
students to engage in this juvenile behavior on
a continuing basis over a period of months

seems remarkably immature at best - perhaps
even a little sick.

“T am deeply disturbed by the turn the last
incident took as it singled out gay students in
a way that was at least harassing and could be
considered threatening. This, of course, is en-
tirely unacceptable on acampus which ‘values
its diversity and seeks to be a community that
recognizes the dignity and inherent worth of

every person.” '

Trustees, from page 1

soon after it was introduced:

The Executive Committee’s decision to form
the subcommittee came out of last February’s
trustee retreat, where members of the Board
explored “What it means to be achurch-related
college in the Reformed Tradition.”

One of the outcomes of the weekend-long
discussion was a request for the Executive
Committee to examine the trustee religion re-
quirements.

The Executive Committee is comprised of
the Chair, Vice-Chair, Secretary, President,
Chairs of the various standing committees, and
three members appointed by the Chair.

In addition to this request, a few recommen-
dations emerged from small group discussions
of trustees during the retreat. The recommen-
dation regarding the religion requirement as it

pertains to alumni trustees struck the Execu-
tive Committee as one deserving spegial atten-
tion.

While Vagt did not expect any recommen-
dation by the committee to be made by the
Board’s annual April meeting, he is optimistic
of one being announced by October.

The requirement has been a topic of debate
for many students, faculty and trustees: Sev-
eral sections of the Board’s Bylaws require
trustees to affirm their commitment to the
Christian faith. Some feel the requirement does
not exemplify ‘the religious diversity of the
student body, while others claim the Board’s
Christian membership requirement provides a
more open and inclusive atmosphere to students
of all faiths.

Once a recommendation regarding the
trustee requirements is made, the entire Board
will discuss and vote on the issue.

_ Interested in writing for News?

It’ never too late!

Email sawesley or ruturakhia —

is

CARTS &
ENCE
JOUNCIL

North Carolina Dance Theatre and Davidson Dance
Ensemble present

Dance!

Balanchine to Bluegrass

Duke Family Theater, Davidson College
March 25, 2004
7:30 pm
Tickets: $15 $10 for Students .
For Tickets call (704) 894-2135

NORTH CAROLINA
THEATRE

