7

x LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 21, 2004

Calling all carnivores: Atkins diet storms America

By Liz BILLeT
Senior Staff Writer

One wonders at the recent barrage of Sub-
way commercials featuring the banal yet some-
how famous “Jared” and dewy close-ups of
roast beef. Jared’s fall from obesity into the
healthy median weight for his height, achieved
through a diet of meat-intensive Subway sand-
wiches, is widely considered by Americans as
a brand of “success” or “achievement.”

At first openly embraced by all those hoping
to find some healthy alternatives in a fast food
nation, Subway has now more blatantly en-
dorsed a specific road to weight loss: Atkins.
In 1972, “Dr. Atkins’ Diet Revolution” was
published, and his innocuous last name was
transformed into a fleshy synonym for diet,
protein, fats and health. Inthe mid-90s, Atkins
released anew edition of his book (“‘Dr. Atkins’
New Diet Revolution”), reviving the high-pro-
tein, low-carb diet and confirming once and
for all that the 80s were just a strange pasta-
and-perm infused accident.

The concept behind the Atkins Diet is that
one’s body burns carbohydrates and fat for
energy. Thus, if carbohydrate intake is mini-
mized, body fat is burned like Joan of Arc (as
long as you assume her level of devotion to the

ees

Movie Review -
Tim Burton’s

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Although “Big Fish” is an unbelievable
movie, you get the impression while watching
it that, in a certain, wondrous sense, director
Tim Burton wants for it to be believable. For
Burton, there is nothing more truthful than the
heart of a tall tale, and his newest and most
stellar film reminds us of the importance of our
childhood fantasies.

Wandering passionately and intimately
through two enchanting hours, “Big Fish”
crosses the finish line as the purest daydream
to come out of Hollywood in a long time. It

rescues Burton from an extended slump that

4

www.hardees.com

The Low Carb Thick Burger, from Hardee’s: 420 slim calories

diet plan). Subway’s new Atkins-Friendly
sandwiches feature chunks of meat and cheese
decorated with a variety of allegedly ethnic

sauces. Perhaps this is a step up from standard -

Subway fare; paper-thin tortillas have replaced
the usual stale rolls, which are made pliant only
by oil and vinegar-dressing or soaking wet
“fresh” lettuce.

TGIFriday’s and Chili’s, two American stan-

<2 >

ie

‘Big Fish’ finds

included the dreary “Sleepy Hollow” and the
catastrophic “Planet of the Apes.” .

“Big Fish” also joins the elite core of films
that compose the genre “Movies that Make
Grown Men Cry.” Sporting one of the most
dynamic father-son reconciliations since “Field
of Dreams,” it plays the heartstrings gently
without insisting that the audience well up with
tears at every moment.

Like a detective sifting his way through a
mound of evidence, journalist Will Bloom
(Billy Crudup) tolerates nothing but the facts.
Frustratingly enough, his father Edward (Albert
Finney) couldn’t care less about the facts. He
raised his son with impossible stories about
friendly giants, uncatchable fish, and prophetic

dards owned by the same company, have also
introduced similar Atkins dishes. One can now
dine on Spinach Artichoke Dip with veg-
etables—“because tortilla chips are a no-no,”
quotes the menu.

Surely broccoli spears are healthier than
crunchy slices of fried corn. But Atkins is
enforcing stranger permutations on our diet
ideologies. Cheeseburgers are golden tickets

to the land of Slimdom while buns are evil
carbohydrate bombs. Burger King and
Hardee’s are featuring their new bunless
burgers, which look disgusting in their greasy
paper and lettuce wrapping.

This is only the head of the meat-not-bread
current, which incorporates everything from
celebrity Zone Diet deliveries (another protein
diet permutation) to protein shakes long en-
dorsed by meatheads everywhere. But this
dominant definition of health in American
culture for going on ten years now still seems
antithetical to many Americans raised on low-
fat pasta dishes. Mediacoverage of protein diets
still harps upon their seemingly unusual prin-
ciples.

Thus, the Atkins diet is not only a diet; it is
atrend. When today’s children of the anti-corn
grow up to be well-fed American adults, they
will balk at the swaying tide of diet informa-
tion—and surely it will turn. High-protein diets
will seem status quo to growing generations.
just as we believe that low-fat diets are “‘nor-
mal” healthy eating.

Clearly the Atkins diet works on some level.
But so did the low-fat diets abounding in the
previous decade. Low-fat diets have endured

see Atkins, page 8

truth in fairy tales, not facts

witches, and he insists to his last breath that
these are the true events of his life.

When Will learns that the terminally ill
Edward is nearing his final days, he renounces
his father’s fabled history and vows to learn
the truth behind the ceaseless stream of tall
tales. Edward resists the literal interpretations
of his son, forcing him to accept his view of
life as an alternative form of reality.

The film rotates between the sensitive,
present-day scenes of Will and Edward’s di-
lemma and the beautifully rendered visions of
Edward’s imagination. As the younger,
unstoppably determined Edward, Ewan
McGregor embarks on a legendary odyssey
through the Deep South that is worthy of
Pm a

Ewan McGregor comes face-to-
navel with a giant in ‘Big Fish’

ems ‘3
¥ \ ok Bd:
‘ 2

-TERRY’S TAXI.
Serving Iredale and
Mecklenburg County
24 Hour Service
Daytime: (704)663-9411, (704)663-9413
evenings: (704)663-8861, (704)657-7 134
If you need transportation to and from

the airport, bus station, or other areas
call Terry’s Taxi

a __ Over 5Q years of service

bree ce bee te

Big Fish
Directed by:
Tim Burton

Written by:
John August

Starring:
Ewan McGregor, Albert Finney,
Billy Crudup
Running time:
110 minutes

Forrest Gump’s voyage through history.

Ambling and colorful, McGregor’s journey
gives “Big Fish” its irresistibility. Burton paces
it with a storyteller’ s sense of timing, and writer
John August, working from Daniel Wallace’s
novel, textures the script with numerous go-
getter American aphorisms. Such minor obser-
vations as a remark that goldfish can grow to
three or four times their size if left in a bigger
bowl are given heart as the ambitious Edward
makes a name for himself in the world.

Just as every good fable has a series of mor-
als and warnings, “Big Fish” accomplishes
more than a simple bedtime story. Bloom’s
episodes comment on love, success, and the
fleetingness of perfect happiness. His first stop
through Spectre, a beautiful, hidden town,
seems less of a fairytale once the outside world
learns of this community and buys it out to a
financial demise.

The performances succeed on every level.
Between this and “Moulin Rouge,” McGregor
can now stake aclaim at having the most fun of
any actor in the business. Finney, so Oscar-
worthy in “Erin Brockovich” a couple of years
ago, surpasses that work here with a touching
and appropriately lively portrayal of the dying
Bloom. Steve Buscemi, Helena Bonham
Carter, and Danny DeVito all show upinmemo-
rable supporting roles.

Still, the question of truth steals the show in
“Big Fish.” By the end, Burton should have
convinced even the most jaded literalist that
there is some level of honesty to be found in a
story of puffed up imagination. The gospel of
Edward Bloom may not work out logically on
the page, but it reveals more about the fruits of
human ambition than any of his son’s news
stories.

ot Lb EE OF OOF PE oe te AP OD HE tee fd OP OE ee Te Oe Ot ee
