- THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

Field Hockey ends losing streak vs. Hoyas

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Over Fall Break the field hockey team trav-
eled to our nation’s capital to face No. 7 Ameri-
can University, Davidson’s third straight top-
ten opponent, before facing off against
Georgetown. °

On Oct. 10, Davidson faced an American
University team that head coach Lisa Thomp-
son said was “extremely skilled and talented.”
Davidson entered the match with a three-game
losing streak in which they had given up 18
goals without scoring a point on their own
offensive end.

One has to KeeR mind, though, that two
of these games came against North Carolina
and Duke, both ranked in the top five in the
nation. American, on the other hand, was com-
ing off a win against nationally ranked Mary-
land.

Despite the odds, Davidson hung in tough
against a relentless offensive attack by the
Eagles. Although the staunch defense, led by
senior keeper Sarah Nolan and senior defender
Courtney Hughes, managed to stave off many

"of the 38 shots taken by the Eagles, American

Leverett pulls away from would-be tacklers in the 14-10 win vs. Morehead State. The running back could

still found a way to the net twice’ in the first
half and three times in the,second.

Nolan recorded 20 saves in the game, while
Hughes added another to prevent the score
from being more lop-sided. Thompson said of
the effort, “We played well defensively for
about 35 minutes.”

The offense, meanwhile, was not able to
solve the American defense, as Davidson man-
aged only one shot for the game. Still, Thomp-
son said, “We could have taken advantage of
more offensive opportunities.” Overall, Th-
ompson said, “We still learned a lot from the
game in order to get ready for Georgetown.”

On the following day the Wildcats, looking
to break their four-game skid, returned to the
field to face the Hoyas. Eleanor Cowley ’08
finally notched a goal for the Wildcat offense
just 3 1/2 minutes into the game, but
Georgetown responded with a goal of its own
to knot the score at 1-1 at halftime.

In the second half, Catherine: Ransone ’08
assisted junior Molly Blackman to give
Davidson a lead that they would carry for the
rest of the game. Kayli Maxwell ’08 added an
insurance goal, her ninth for the year, in the
late minutes to prevent a Georgetown come-

back.

Thompson was happy with her team’s per-
formance, as she said, “Everybody really came
out focused and ready to play.” With the win,
Davidson snapped the four-game losing streak
to go to 4-8 on the season. Georgetown fell to
2-11.

The Nor-Pac Conference East Division
awarded Nolan for her efforts against Ameri-
can and Georgetown, where she had seven
saves, by naming her the Player of the Week.
In the game against American, Nolan broke
the Davidson record for career saves, which
was set previously at 477.

Nolan also has 114 saves on the season, and
she has been instrumental on defense for
Davidson. This was the third time that some-
one from Davidson has been the Player of the
Week for the Nor-Pac East Division, as Max-
well has been given the honor twice.

Davidson’s next two games will be at Belk
Turf Field in two crucial matches against Nor-
Pac foe St. Louis. The first game of the double-
header will be Friday at 7:00, while the sec-
ond will be held on Saturday at 1:00 as the
team looks to improve on its 0-2 conference
mark.

break the record for career rushing yards this year, but he just wants to win a league championship.

from Leverett, page 16

well, as he now has 228 points on 38 touch-
downs.

The performances against Jacksonville and
Morehead State earned Leverett his third and
fourth consecutive 100-yard games, respec-
tively, and he currently has 12 100-yard per-
formances in his career.

Leverett’s play against Morehead State also
more importantly helped preserve a hard-
fought 14-10 affair this past Saturday.

For his work against Jacksonville, Leverett :

was named Pioneer Football League Co-Of-
fensive Player of the Week, the third such
honor he has received in his career. His two
previous awards, however, were for his spe-
cial teams work.

Leverett himself was quick to note that he
alone is not responsible for his accomplish-
ments. “This year, from a blocking standpoint,
has been as good a year as any before I’ve
had here. Blair Reynolds ’05 is a great tackle.
He’s come a long way since our freshman year.
Mike Iafrate ’07 is the engine of the line. Mike
Chapman ’07 has stepped up a lot this year to
fill in and excel. Also, I’d say we have about

2 et eno

en ewer ene

the smartest tight end in Jordan Sundheim ’06
that we’ve had in any other year.”

Listening to Leverett go on about his team-
mates makes one feel that he is knocking on
the door of a team, not personal, record.

Although a career rushing record may seem
like a big deal to-some, head football coach
Mike Toop did not want to focus on it.

“Let’s wait and see if he gets it first,” warned
Toop, who, naturally, is more concerned with
his team’s upcoming opponents.

Leverett added, ““When it comes to records,

it is best not to think about them. If you focus

on them too much, bad things are liable to
happen.” :

After having a stellar first three years as a
running back, Leverett came into this year
somewhat aware of the possibility to break
Sinclair’s record. Still, the mark was never the
focus forhim orthe team.

“T didn’t think about those kinds of things.
I.was told I’d have a chance to get on the field

and contribute ‘as a freshman, and I believed -

that. All of this happening now has very re-
cently become a realization to me.”

In response to excitement over a possible
career record, Toop said,

nen ane tenes cee ee ee

“We still have four games left, there’s still
a lot of football for John to play.”

Clearly, Toop and his team are not overly
worried about Leverett’s potential run to the
record books. As they have said all season,
team goals have come first and foremost.

And, it should be noted that the team holds
Leverett in a position of high regard. When
asked about Leverett’s accomplishments,
Toop said, “The fact he was voted captain by
his teammates speaks to the commitment,
work ethic and devotion he has for the team
and [the] sport.”

When asked what he wants to be his lasting
legacy, Leverett said, “If I get my wish, my
lasting legacy will be to have won a [PFL]
Championship this year and to have helped
my teammates create a great, life-lasting
memory.”

Clearly, whether Leverett, who cites his.
mother as his biggest supporter, achieves this
daunting career mark or. not, he will be re-
membered .by teammates, coaches and fans
alike.

“Tf I’m lucky enough to reach that mark,”
concluded Leverett, “I’ll definitely try to keep
the ball.”

ler. ing to Toop, San Diego
‘be the best team we’ve faced since Coastal
(Carolina)...defensively they're very tough.”

see

from Women, page 16

second frame. Both Ashley Burgin ’06 and
Stephanie Bouts ’05 stepped in to add two
more scores each. Amanda Traver ’07 re-
corded two assists in the second half, and the
Citadel scored on itself for the final goal.

For the game, Davidson out-shot the Bull-
dogs 22-7. In one half of play, Hobart saved
two Bulldog attempts, and goalies Bevin En-
glish 08 and Laura Schulenborg”’06 had two
saves and one save, respectively over the fi-
nal 45 minutes.

With only four games left, and all of them
conference matches, Davidson hopes to keep
its first place status within SoCon. This
Wednesday’s game versus Wofford’ at 7 p.m.
will be the last home game and Senior Night
for the Wildcats.

STSTRAVEL.COM

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
