Staff Editorial

Is big brother
watching you?

Considering Davidson’s relatively crime-free campus and
strong honor code, few Davidson students would think that the
police would need to photographically document weekend
parties as if they were crime scenes and not the benign social
gatherings that they almost always turn out to be.

Yet the discovery by students that Campus Police were tak-
ing photographs at parties has associated the police with the use
of unsettling big-brother tactics rather than the official provid-
ers of campus security and safety, as we thought was their job.

Director of Public Safety and Police Fountain Walker recently
met with members of the Patterson Court Council in order to
assuage their fears that the Campus Police were out to capture
student violations on film.

While Walker argues that such methods of documentation
are required considering that college parties occasionally result
in property damage and other student misconduct, it also seems
to undermine a large part of Davidson’s Honor Code

How are we to claim we go to a school in which our word is
our strongest bond when the Campus Police feel it necessary to
document student parties on film?

Shouldn’t students be given the decency of being talked to by
Campus Police when there are problems rather than simply being
photographed? '

Furthermore, the purpose of the Campus Police should be to
protect students, not to go out of their way to document minor
infractions.

‘For the most part, Davidson’s administration wisely adopted
the unofficial philosophy that students are going to drink alco-
hol no matter what the rules are, and it is better to have them do
so ina safe and open atmosphere on campus rather than risking
students driving to other places.

This philosophy is precisely why students are encouraged to
contact Campus Police or paramedics in cases of potential al-
cohol poisoning without fear of being punished.

Yet can this philosophy continue if students think the Cam-
pus Police might bring a camera along with an ambulance?

Rather than creating an open and safe atmosphere for stu-
dents, this policy of taking photographs at parties has the poten-
tial of generating student-police conflict and, even worse, forc-
ing students off-campus for parties and other social gatherings.

At the very least, the Campus Police needs to more effec-
tively communicate to students why they are taking photographs
and what they will be used for before any pictures are taken.

Otherwise, Campus Police risk doing more harm than good
for the students they are meant to protect.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL CORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yow!l Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark .
». Nick Horton
Circulation Manager
“Laura Filesa” v
Advertising Maiiager .
~~Rage Persons”

PERS

iCTIVES

Letters to the Editors

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

Field space
conundrum

There is a crisis going on right now at
Davidson: There are not enough fields for
all the Wildcats on the varsity, club or in-
tramural teams.

Over the past few years, this campus has
seen remarkable improvements to the var-
sity fields: a state-of-the-art turf field for
field hockey and lacrosse, a brand new
soccer complex, and a future expansion of
Richardson Stadium. However, practice
fields have been erased in the process.

The IMACs are now simply the IMAC,
going from 3 practice fields to one, and the
hill field beside Baker is now routinely
used by varsity sports, in or out of season.

Recently the Ultimate Frisbee team had
to practice between the science buildings.
Other teams must practice at night, often
with inadequate lighting. And we haven’t
even spoke of those simply wanting to use
field space for fun.

Want to practice for flickerball? Try
Chambers Lawn. Have plans to have a
pick-up soccer game? Good luck finding
space outside of Patterson Court.

All this to say: We need a plan of action.
Club sports on down fall not under the
Athletics department but under School
Activities.

The student body, through SGA, needs
to develop and fund a solution to this prob-
lem.

Here’s my suggestion: 1) Anextra set of
lights on the far side of the IMACs- this
will open up field space at night. 2) Alter-
native fields made available as close to

campus as possible.
This may mean (a) renting space over at
Ada Jenkins or River Run, (b) leveling
fields over at the lake campus or along
Griffith St., or (c) making room here out
beyond the IMACs or new Soccer Com-
plex.

Talk to your SGA representative TO-
DAY about developing a solution to this
ever-growing crisis.

Evans McGowan ‘05

Eugenics and
silly science

Last week, Staff Columnist Nathan
Bradshaw attacked abortion through a sa-
tirical model of eugenics. In the process,
the column made countless errors in his
depiction of science.

If he asserts that we “have the capacity

‘mous people went around campus tear-

now to determine the function and result-
ant trait of every individual gene in a
human.” The human genome contains
30,000 genes and many—probably
most—interact with multiple other genes.
While science continues to progress, no
scientist expects to see the human genome
entirely understood in his or her lifetime.

He continually labels genes as “strong”
or “weak.” Evolutionary science, how-
ever, does not condemn genes as weak.

Humans do. Science provides no stan-
dard of measure by which to judge a ge-
netic makeup as “qualitatively weaker
than average.”

There have been several attempts in the
past to promote the genetic “fitness” of a
population. The most infamous case stems
from Nazi Germany. In every case, sci-
ence was a scapegoat for governmental
bodies looking to satisfy their own preju-
dices.

Eugenics is a pseudoscience, and
should never be categorized as “‘scientific
and reasoned analysis,” for whatever
purposes.

Ben Whigham ‘08

crats of Davidson were very helpful in
the matter and made us aware that they
and Dean Shandley condemned such
encroachment on the College Republi-
cans’ right to free speech on campus.
Notice I did not say “anonymous Demo-
crats.” That’s what happens when one
does not let their mouth (or their pen)
run away from them.

As aconservative and as a person who
signed his name on the Davidson Honor
Code, I regret the incident that Spencer
witnessed, but let’s be open-minded and
not let the rash actions of one person
lead to undue political mudslinging.

Pete Benbow ‘07
First Night
Down off
for KA

Due to a recent off-campus party
which freshmen students were invited
to, breaking the Patterson Court Regu-
lation that states no freshmen are al-
lowed at parties affiliated with a frater-
nity on or off campus before first night
down, Kappa Alpha has suspended all
rush activities for a period of two weeks
ending on September 20, 2004.

Since we have, in effect, gotten a
“head start” on rush we have internally
sanctioned ourselves for this two week
period so that other Patterson Court
houses will not be penalized by our
action.

The house wil] be on a two week
social probation period which cancels
all First Night Down activities that had
been planned to occur at our house.

The house will be locked during that
weekend.

There will also be no off campus
activities affiliated with KA. Brothers
will not be contacting freshmen in re-
gards to fraternity issues for the dura-
tion of this period.

The brothers of Kappa Alpha apolo-
gize to all other Patterson Court orga-
nizations, as well as the rest of the com-
munity, for this mistake in judgment.

Kappa Alpha Fraternity

Spencer
generalizes
too much

Last week, Sam Spencer wrote an op-
ed essentially lumping all Davidson Re-
publicans into one basket for the mis-
guided actions of a single person.

In his editorial, Spencer writes of an
anonymous male student throwing away
the free John Kerry bumper stickers be-
ing handed out in Vail Commons. With-
out bothering to obtain the identity of the
culprit, Spencer launches into a tirade
equating that one man with all of ‘us on
this campus who support George W. Bush.
It is unbecoming of a Davidson student
for one to be so narrow-minded as to as-
sume all Bush supporters or Republicans
are violating the Honor Code because of
this.

Need I remind readers of the incident
that occurred last spring in which anony-

ing down advertisements for College
Republicans meetings? The Young Demo-

The Davidsonian welcomes and strongly
encourages letters to the editor.
Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu.
We reserve the right to edit for .
content, brevity and grammar.

