18 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Baseball losing streak reaches seven games

Wildcat offense averaging
just over two runs per game
during season-high slide

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

Monday’s downpour did nothing to wash
away the baseball team’s losing streak, as the
’Cats dropped a 6-3 decision to Gardner-Webb
last night, extending their skid to a season-
long seven games. Davidson now stands at 15-
25 on the year, and after being swept by the
Citadel this past weekend the ’Cats dropped
to 10-14 in Southern Conference play.

photo by Dorsett Clark

Entrekin ’06 has played well this
year both on field and at the dish.

- On Tuesday, Davidson got on the board first
against the Bulldgos when Alden Crissey ’07
led off the third with a single through the right
side, advanced to third on a failed pick off at-
tempt, then scored after Ronnie Shore ’06
singled up the middle. Unfortunately, Gardner-
Webb scored three times in both the fifth and
sixth innings to grab a lead it would not relin-

quish. .

Defining too-little-too-late, the Cats scored
twice more in the eighth, as both Andrew
Musashe ’05 and Eli Benefield 05 crossed
the plate. Rob Wilson ’07 picked up the loss,
but the Davidson offense hardly helped, scat-
tering just six hits and striking out nine times.

Despite out-hitting The Citadel, Davidson
dropped a 6-2 decision to the Cadets on Sun-
day, as the ’Cats were swept for the first time
in SoCon play this year. In the losing effort,
Crissey, Benefield, Sam Navarro ’05 and Tay-
lor Shoop ’06 each wrapped out two hits. Brian

' Akin ’04 was charged with the loss, dropping

his record to 6-2 on the year.

On Saturday, The Citadel grabbed an early
8-0 advantage in the first inning and never
looked back, as the Cadets sailed away with a
12-3 win. Wilson went 2-for-2, while Shoop,
Crissey and Alex Entrekin each picked up an
RBI.

Andy Carter ’05 tossed a complete game
gem on Friday, scattering just seven hits and
yeilding three runs to the Citadel’s high pow-
ered offense, but the "Cats proved feeble at
the plate once again, knocking out just three
hits in the 3-0 loss. Davidson’s best scoring
chance came in the second when Shoop and
Brett Peiffer ’04 tallied back-to-back two-out
singles, but the next batter struck out to end
the inning and the rally.

Carter has now held the opposition to three
or fewer earned runs in four of his last five
starts, while Davidson has now lost 16 con-

Future star? Alden Crissey ’07
leads his class in R, HR, and RBI.
secutive away games at The Citadel, dating
back to 1998.

A week ago, Davidson traveled to Durham,
losing 8-3 to Duke. The ’Cats pulled within
one in the fifth when Entrekin scored off a
Shoop sacrifice fly, making it a 2-1 ballgame.
The Blue Devils pulled away for good in the
bottom half, however, scoring four runs off
of three hits and two Davidson errors. Offen-
sively, Entrekin lead the Davidson attack, go-
ing 3-for-4 with two runs scored, while Jay
Heafner ’06 had the only other multi-hit per-
formance, going 2-for-4 and Shoop provided
two RBI sacrifices.

One player explained the current situation
like this:

“It doesn’t help to dwell on previous games.
Every team has it’s peaks and valleys. Right
now we need to look at the mistakes we’ ve
made and build upon them to improve our play
for the remainder of the season. Our focus is
to be one-for-one each game and play well
the rest of the season.”

The ’Cats return to action tonight at UNC-
Charlotte and will host Duke on Sunday at 2
p.m. before traveling back to Charlotte next
Tuesday.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004

ressters
| Restaurant

at Birkdale Village

www.dresslersrestaurant.com

at well. laugh heen. live long.

Congratulations to all graduates of 2004!
Call today to make your celebration reservations - 704.987.1779.

Mon - Sat 5:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. Sunday 5:00 p-m. - 9:00 p.m. :
Private Dining '& Valet Parking Available

