tee bees

THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

THurspDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004 3

Club baseball team funding
leads to heated discussions

By BEN WHIGHAM
Senior Staff Writer

Thursday’s SGA meeting developed into a
heated. discussion over whether to allocate
$1000 or more in funding for a new club base-

“pall team. Previous regulations placed a $250
cap on funding for first-year club teams.

Davidson lacks an on-campus playing field
for a club baseball team, which felt it needs
greater funding to provide for a field. The is-
sue produced a vigorous debate among SGA
members.

“T feel like the issues at this week’s meeting
were the most contentious of the year so far,”
said Freshman Senator Chris Catanese ’08.

According to Activities Tax Council bylaws,
first year organizations are able ‘to receive a
maximum allocation of $250. The $250 cap,
however, only applies to organizations that are
directly funded by the ATC.

“Because club baseball falls under the um-
brella organization of Club Sports they are
currently part of a loophole to receive as much
funding as the ATC and SGAdeem acceptable,”
said ATC chair Adam Gerstenmier ’05.

Theclub baseball team requested-extra fund-
ing to compensate for renting field space,
league fees, uniform and equipment.

“The controversy for this arises out of the
newly formed club baseball team’s request for
about $3000,” said SGA President Katharine
Hubbard ’05. “The amount is so high because
there is not enough field space on campus, so
they will have to pay to use space off-campus.

Supporters of the bill argued that acquiring
an off-campus playing field demands extra
resources.

“Because the school does not have a place
for the club baseball team to play, the ATC
should allocate funds up to $1000 to cover
the cost of renting field space elsewhere,” said
Sophomore Senator Mac Skelton ’07.

Some SGA members wished to maintain the
$250 cap on club sport allocations and feared
raising the bar would undermine current re-
strictions.

“T’m notin favor of establishing a precedent
that will promote club teams getting around

the $250 limit,” said Chairman of the Commit-
tee of Charter and Bylaws Darry] Ratcliff ’08.
Ratcliff points to the club lacrosse team’s re-
quest for excess of $250 last year.

“Basically last year, they were in a similar
scenario, they needed more than $250 dollars,”
he said, ‘‘and the senate voted to uphold the
$250 limit.”

Ratcliff points out that the refusal of extra
funds did not hurt the lacrosse team.

“The moral of the story is that club lacrosse

survived their first year and got most of the
money that they needed,” he said.

Supporters of extra funding for club base-
ball argue that the school’s inability to provide
a field should allow for increased financing.

“The situation we have on our hands now is
very different,” said Skelton.

“T think SGA should vote to grant first year
club sports up to $1000 over the traditional

$250 if the school does not provide field space -

for that particular sport.”

The Committee on Charter and Bylaws ini-
tially proposed that no amendment be made.
The resolution, however, was struck down by
a roll-call vote. ;

The Committee will present an amendment
that deals with the issue in the upcoming meet-
ing. The amendment will propose allowing
extra funding for club sport teams that lack
proper field space.

As an opponent of the increased financing,
Ratcliff’s position as chairman of the commit-
tee complicates the position.

“We’re going to meet and try to figure out if
there is a way around this and see if we can
make a recommendation we can feel good
about,” said Ratcliff.

“Everyone wants [the Committee of Char-
ter and Bylaws] to propose something because
it would add weight and legitimacy,” he added.

Despite controversy surrounding the base-
ball initiative, the SGA still managed to char-
ter achess club and schedule transportation by
the Vamanos Van for Tuesday’s election.

“IT am continually impressed by the amount
that this group can accomplish with everyone
taking an initiative to get things done,” said
Catanese.

-

* 4
x

%.

\ GRILLED CHEESE -

i

\

“Tike Soda itso

VEGGIE MELT — - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
N SWEET POTATO FRIES — CAESAR SALAD

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE ~
se HOMEMADE ORANGEADE. LEMONADE AND LIMEADE .

Bet, you ‘aant think of Us.
See ~ For. vegetarian fare! —

f

VEGETABLE soup

~“Eat-in Take-out _

saence espana
ae

_ 896-7743

ene SatThur 8-8 "Fri a-o 1

sencneon

este otters eP NT

ome me

~~ ee eo

ee

Election, from page 1

because it seemed like a lot of intangible fac-
tors were favoring Kerry, but in the long term
I wasn’t surprised because people had been
calling this a close election all along, and Bush
always had a lot of advantages,” he said. “The
election was really Bush’s to lose.”

Perhaps the biggest surprises of the election

“came from the large number of Senate races
that the Republicans won.

“The thing that surprised me most is that the
Republicans increased their majority [in the
Senate] so much,” said Sellers.

“Few had expected either side torun the table
the way the Republicans did.”

Ansley was also taken by the number of
Republican wins in the Senate.

“I was especially disappointed with the Sen-
ate races. I thought Bowles had a strong chance
and I thought Castor would pull it out,” he said,
referring to Erskine Bowles and Betty Castor,
both Democratic Senate candidates who lost
their races in North Carolina and Florida re-
spectively.

The most significant Senate win of the night
for the Republicans was John Thune’s defeat
of the Democratic Senate leader Tom Daschle
in South Dakota.

Anne Pearlstein ’06, who has followed the
South Dakota Senate race closely in one of her
political science courses said, “I was surprised
by Thune’s victory. I know that Daschle had
been the incumbent for many years, and that
for the most part was well liked.”

Virtually as soon as the final election results
were reported, talk turned to what the outcomes
would mean for the future of both parties.

“In the next couple of years Bush will push
forward with radical programs,” said Ansley.
“With the Democrats I think there will be a lot
of shaking up within the party. Our outlook
needs to change in how we look at issues, but
in the end we will be stronger.”

Hubbard offered his own advice to the
Democrats, saying “The [Democratic] Party
needs to ponder its losses across the board and
realize that they need moderate southern lead-
ership similar to Bill Clinton in order to be com-
petitive again.”

Yet even with so many wins Tuesday night,
there were some cautious words offered to the
Republicans.

“While Republicans have aclear mandate,”
said Sellers, “they have to be careful not to
overreach since overreaching is what swept
Bill Clinton into a second term in 1996.”

: aon Results

Electoral Vote
Bush: 274

iieh?s

_ CNN estimation (2
ate: 3 ieee)

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL

Ole IEA

Lexington, Virginia

that journey to have meant?

legal career of your dreams.

of the year.

Yu walk out the doors of only

one law school. What do you want

You want to know that you have an
education that will open doors to the

You want to learn in an environment
that’s dedicated to making everyone
strong, not weeding out the weak.

You want a setting where honor is so
- highly prized that the doors to the li-
brary are open 24 hours a day, every day

Wé&L Law provides an opportunity
for the next three years of your life to be
' exciting, stimulating, and rewarding
because we are committed to one ideal:
making you the best lawyer you can be.

For more information
on Washington and
Lee University
School of Law visit
us at law.wiwedu

or email us at
lawadm@wit.edu.

Call us at
(540) 458-8503.

A representative from Washington and Lee
School of Law will be on campus:

Thursday, Nov. 4 — 4 - 6:30 p.m.

Alvarez College Union (part of the Knobloch Campus Center)

