2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

~NEws

-Wepnespay, Aprit 28, 2004

Blotte1

Suspicious Characters

Campus Police

4/23 ~ Baker Sports Complex
Officers were told of 2 B/M’s walking through the parking lot of Baker Sports Complex
and looking into cars. The student who reported the incident said that when the subjects
saw her, they appeared to run back to a car and put something inside. Officers arrived on
the scene, checked the area, and spoke with a witness who said the suspects were driving
an older model, dark SUV. Officers located a CD case containing 24 CDs in the parking
lot. The officers checked the entire campus but were unable to locate the suspects. Officers
contacted Davidson Town Police Department and gave then a description of the vehicle.
4/23 Martin Science Building Drug Find
Officer spoke with person in Martin Science reporting that they found what they be-
lieved to be a marijuana plant. The officer confirmed that the plant was indeed marijuana
and took possession of it.
4/24 Martin Court Property Damage
Students reported that their bathroom in building B was vandalized. The students be-
lieve that the vandalism took place during a party. There are no suspects at this time.

We'll help you move

even if your friends wo

Let us Ee Ip you with that. The UPS Store
9722 One Norman Blvd.

Cornelius, NC

- We carry everything you
need for your next move. Half mile west of I-77 in

A variety of moving boxes Turnberry Place on Catawba,

~ Packing peanuts

j We can ship boxes to
your new address for you.

Low fates direct from UPS®
D2003 United Parcel Service of America, Inc.

M-F 8:30 - 6:00
Sat 10:00 - 3:00 -

704-892-9760
store2193@theupsstore.com

arbucks & Sushi-at-the-Lake.

New organization to create
database of field opportunities

By ZACH KAzIor
Staff Writer

The Davidson International Development
Initiative (DIDI) is up running. It will hold its
first meeting next fall.

Agroup of students formed the organization,
which obtained its charter in March, with the
goal of improving awareness and communica-
tion in international development in the com-
munity.

The group will serve as a guidance role for

. those who are enthusiastic about international

development and intend to explore the issue
abroad and after college.

One way in which DIDI hopes to pursue this
role is through an initiative they have under-
taken in collaboration with Davidson Interna-
tional Association (DIA).

The groups will create the Davidson Inter-
national Network (DIN) and have applied for
the $10,000 Improve Davidson Fund for finan-
cial support.

This database will give students interested
in international development access to a vari-
ety of opportunities in the field.

International development includes of pro-
grams and policies that deal with issues such
as economic growth, agriculture, trade, global
health, humanitarian assistance; and conflict
prevention.

Julie Goff’05, one of DIDI’s founding mem-
bers said, “It is a highly interdisciplinary field
which is why we see a need for an on-campus
setting to bring students of different academic
backgrounds together to discuss some of the
biggest challenges our increasingly globalized
world currently faces.”

DIDI will be meeting regularly to discuss
specific topics, and will be hearing from stu-
dents and faculty who have traveled abroad and
experienced first-hand some successes and
failures in any number of international devel-
opment projects and policies.

Guest speakers are planned for next fall and
spring in the hopes that they can better address
some of the issues that students are interested
in.

DIDI currently has the support of a number
of academic departments on campus, includ-
ing the economics and political science depart-
ments.

The group has also been working closely with
the Dean Rusk International Studies program
and professors specializing in certain aspects
of international development. “

The organization plans on incorporating
alumni currently working in the field of inter-
national development, whether it is through
online publications or through on-campus
workshops.

The newresource, DIN, willcreate a website,
which would provide a means of communica-
tion, focused on international development, be-

tween and among alumni, faculty, student or-
ganizations, and students.

The website will provid a forum to share
ideas, seek guidance and inquire about avail-
able positioms.

An alumni database will also be created and
be made available online. This database would
include all Davidson alumni and contacts in-
volved in the development sector around the
world.

DIA President Stella Kenyi ’05 said the da-
tabase would be a great opportunity for inter-
national students to continue promoting inter-
national awareness on campus.

Kenyi said, “Since numerous DIA members
are interested in pursuing their international
interest after Davidson, DIA and DIDI’s col-
laboration in the creation of this database would
give DIA members and the student body ac-
cess to a wealth of networks and opportuni-
ties.”

“{DIDI] will continue to
encourage students’ passions
for the global community and
foster the spirit of lifetime
service that this college seeks to
instill in all students.”
--Julie Goff ’05

DIN will also offer an online publication
featuring students, faculty, and alumni who
have had experiences in international devel-
opment.

The organization also hopes to organize a
workshop, bringing in Davidson alumni to
campus with experience in the field of interna-
tional development, in which students would
learn how to take advantage of opportunities
in the field.

Goff said, “We would like our regular dis-
cussions, which will usually have some re-
quired reading ahead of time, and multi-fac-
eted website to be a place where students can
learn, think through ideas with students, fac-
ulty, and alumni--not necessarily in their de-
partment or classes--and be encouraged that
work in the field of international development
is necessary and feasible. Often this area of
work has a less conventional career path and
young students don’t know where to begin or
what needs to be done.

“Undoubtedly the DIDI will evolve into the
organization that will meet students changing
interests and needs, but [we] hope it will con-
tinue to encourage students’ passions for the
global community and foster the spirit of life-
time service that this college seeks to-instill in
all students.”

LEARN TO EAT ITALIAN

*
the.

av

" PANINI” a $4.99

FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
Shops on the Green + 177@ Exit 28
704-896-3190 * www.ferruccis.com

