The

3B

Widsonian

First Cass
U.S. PostaGE Paip
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

@ “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

ae eee ee ORR

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

rm

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 14

Seniors seek
adventures in
Watson grant
proposals

_ By Joun HELMS
Staff Writer

Every year Davidson College’s Graduate
Fellowships Committee nominates four
Davidson seniors to compete for the Thomas
J. Watson Fellowship that will fund world travel
and independent research for a year.

Each candidate presents a proposal that de-
scribes the student’s project and the personal
significance of it.

Tom Shandley, Dean of Students and Vice
President of Student Life, said, ““They’ re look-
ing for someone who put together a proposal
thatis asynthesis of their college career in class,
out of class, and how they spent their summers.”

This year’s nominees are Hannah Fuhr ’04,
Gray Lyons ’04, Jodi McQuillen ’04, and
Susannah Powell ’04.

Despite the generous grant of $22,000 for a
year abroad, some may be hesitant in accept-
ing such an offer since the fellowship does not
allow students to return to their home country

photo by College Communications
Seniors Susannah Powell, Gray
Lyons, Jodi McQuillen, and
Hannah Fuhr are up for Watsons.

for the entire year in which they are participat-
ing in the program.

To some adventurous students, the idea of
spending a year outside of the United States is
very appealing.

“T’ve traveled some but not enough. The
Watson Fellowship will help me see new places
since I’ ve been in the Southeast my whole life,”

see Watson, page 3

What's behind Jamie

WINTER WONDERLAND

ate e

PEL.

3

G28 photo by Ryan Carvatho

«if a
eh

Chatham Kierstead ’05 makes kayaking ‘cool’ in a whole new way.

Shelton’s
smile?

CatCard expands off-campus
trial period for local shops

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

Think CatCard money is only good for the
Union Cafe and college bookstore? Guess
again. Davidson Cat€ards are now accepted
off-campus.

While students have been able to pay for de-
livery from Joel’s restaurant and Domino’s
Pizza with a CatCard for nearly three years,
this is the first time that CatCards will be ac-
cepted on-sight off-campus.

The SGA has been pushing for expanded
CatCard access for the past several years. Until
recently, legal technicalities have impeded the
process.

According to the law, business that is con-
sidered part of the life of a student is not sub-

ject to income tax. The Union Cafe and college

bookstore, for example, are considered inte-
gral services that operate for the good of the
student and are excluded from income tax.

Because of their location off-campus, stores
on Main Street did not meet certain student
convenience standards necessary for tax ex-
clusion.

Before Christmas break, Davidson’s tax
consultants reexamined the policy and found
that since Main Street stores are within walk-
ing distance of the campus, they do meet the
standards of student convenience and are able
to engage in business with Davidson College.

In short, this new interpretation of the tax
law permits some local businesses within a
small radius of the college to accept payments
with CatCards.

Accepting CatCards has both positive and
negative implications for businesses on Main
Street.

On the positive side, stores accepting
CatCards would have access to nearly $1 mil-

lion of combined student deposits.

SGA President Charles Washington ’04 also
pointed out that because most students do not
carry cash on them around campus, they are
less likely to do business on Main Street. He
reasons that being able to use a CatCard off-
campus would give students more incentive to
go straight from class to have a cup of coffee
or to buy items at CVS. By making it more
convenient for students to pay for things off-
campus, Main Street could see a major increase
in student business.

However, as Director of Auxiliary Services
Richard Terry pointed out, Main Street busi-
nesses also have to consider the expenses in-
volved in accepting CatCards.

For example, each business would have to
buy a CatCard reader, which can cost between
$1200-$1400, areceipt printer (between $400-
$500), a special phone line ($80 per month),
and a slight commission for the accounting
done at the College.

According to an SGA survey conducted last
semester, students would be most likely to use
a CatCard at CVS and Summit Coffeehouse.

High student interest has convinced the col-
lege to do a two-semester trial period of off-
campus CatCard use, should participating busi-
nesses be willing.

Currently, both CVS and Summit are con-
sidering CatCard acceptance.

Since CVS is a national chain store, secur-
ing CatCard acceptance requires permission
from the corporate level.

Because the University of Alabama already
has a similar arrangement with CVS, Davidson
has hope for CatCard acceptance.

Should CVS gain permission to accept
CatCards, the system could be up and running

see CatCard, page 3

Visiting
professor reads
selections from
her works

By BLevin SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

On Monday evening, Susan Allport,
Davidson’s 2003-2004 McGee Professor of
Writing, read from three short pieces concern-
ing the ways in which people from different
parts of the world sustain their brains and bod-
ies through food.

Over eighty students, faculty, and commu-
nity members attended the event.

English professor Dr. Alan Parker introduced
Allport and described her as “methodical and
insightful: a careful reader of science culture
and the body’s needs.”

Parker also said that Allport’s nonfiction
writing demonstrates “how science writing
makes us both author and subject of the text.”

Allport first read from a short piece concern-
ing the raw food movement, a trend becoming
increasingly popular throughout the United
States, especially in New York and California.

Allport pointed out that although cooking
food does remove nutrients and produces tox-
ins, it also drastically increases the amount of

_carbohydrates the food contains. As carbohy-

drates are an essential component for creating
energy and sustaining our bodies, a diet com-

see Allport, page 2

photo by Dorsett Clark
McGee Professor of Writing
Susan Allport delivers her lecture
Tuesday on all things food.

SPORTS: Superstitions keep the wins coming _sepneewo

Get hooked-up
with the latest
on hook-ups.

Aa, PAGES

