12 THE DAvVIDSONIAN

ror you
SOOrts fans...
Belen © PICKS OF

THE WEEK

Wildcat game of
the week:

Baseball vs. Wake Forest
Tuesday at 3 p.m.

Baseball is the national pastime, and it finally
returns to Davidson. The team opens with a
difficult opponent in the Demon Deacons,
who are looking to make a run at the ACC
title this year. Come support our guys by fill-
Me ein ce
stands. This is one of nine home g

SPORTS

Davidson athletes aren’t out for public glory
or special privileges. They don’t play their
sport to make fellow students hold their breath
when they enter the room. They don’t expect
better housing, better meal plans, or to cut you
in line. And, like any other Davidson student,
they certainly don’t expect easy grades.

If anything, good grades must be harder
to come by for the athletes here. With study
time sacrificed for the practice field (or
court, or track, or pool) and weight room,
they enjoy less free time than most among
a student body that echoes with complaints
of an overflowing schedule.

For the most part, however, these com-
plaints are seldom heard from those in-
volved in a varsity sport. They’re more
likely to come froma poor soul who has to
sacrifice his or her Wednesday night drink-
ing binge for the sake of writing a research
paper. Which is why I'll have to do the com-
plaining for at least one athlete here, since he
refuses. Please excuse the vagueness.

This athlete, who already gets nothing but
sore limbs and personal satisfaction for his
efforts, has a tournament to attend in the next
few weeks that will require him to miss a good
amount of class. Last year, he recalls, it took
him over a month to make up for the missed

“ time. He’s already begun to read ahead in

preparation.
In fact, he began to prepare for the missed

A boob at halftime, the revoke of a fine
to Bengal’s quarterback John Kitna for
wearing a hat with a cross on it to a post-
game press conference, a federal judge’s
decision to allow underclassmen college
players into the draft: one things leads to

_ the next, and what do you
get? An NFL mommy! At this
year’s Pro Bowl, eight-year
veteran and three-time Pro
Bowler Simeon Rice was sent
home early from the event
after repeatedly proving his
inability to take good care of
* himself. In a letter written by
. Herald Henderson, chairmen
of the NFL management
council (aka NFL mom), Rice was accused of
“showing up two days late to training, miss-
ing team meetings, making a disturbing scene
in the Honolulu hotel lobby, and lastly, show-
ing up to practice with his shoelaces untied.”
If only his real mommy had taught him to loop,
swoop, and pull... An interesting tale of
five college basketball players and a mar-
ried woman: after losing in a Big East match-

as 9 Ur we

time at the start of the semester, when he
emailed the professor for a class in which he
saw he’d be missing a’‘lab. The professor’s
response to his student’s request for a make-
up: Nope. The best solution that the registrar
and professor could come up with: take an F
on the lab. ‘

The student will automatically fail his lab
when he takes his excused absence to fulfill
an obligation to his school and team by com-
peting in the tournament. He will not be per-
mitted to make the lab up ahead of time, as he
suggested, by working with another lab group.
The professor will not go out of his way to set
up a special lab for the student, which is un-
derstandable, since faculty members here have
considerable time constraints of their own.

But the fact that the professor won’t go out
of his way to simply excuse his student from
the lab — one of quite a few throughout the

( vear,

up to o Pittsburgh, five St. John’s players headed
to a strip club for a night with unexpected
turns. Also at the club was 38-year-old Sherri
Ann Urbanek-Bach, who met up with the play-
ers and eventually made her way back to their
hotel room. Upon exiting the hotel the next
morning, she claimed to have been raped and
sexually assaulted by the St. John’s
roundballers. Bad news for the Red Storm,
until technology took its course and a video
was given to the police from a St. John player
who had recorded evidence on his digital cam-
era cell phone. The tape showed Bach saying
that she would have sex with these men for
money. Apparently, $600 dollars was the of-
fer, and when only six dollars was paid up,
Bach felt the need to make false acclaims that
she was assaulted and raped. Although not in
trouble with the police after the cell phone
proved them innocent, one of the players has
been expelled from the university and the other
four have been suspended from the team and
the school. As for Bach, she spent eighteen

‘hours in jail for filing false reports and is still

waiting for her husband to pick her up from
the slammer . . . A Brazilian referee ended

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

semester — is absurd. The fact that the only
option offered to the student besides taking
an F was to miss part of his Division I tourna-
ment is enraging.

That Davidson doesn’t make many special
excuses for its athletgs is one of the most al-
luring aspects of our unique Division I pro-
gram and one of the biggest reasons to root
for and respect our athletes. An example like
this, however, takes the idea too far and pre-
sents a challenge to establishing our pro-
gram as legitimate and competitive among
our divisional peers.

The brilliant and caring faculty here is
one of the best aspects of the Davidson ex-
perience. Most of the professors, probably
even the one mentioned here, wouldn’t
think about acting unfairly towards their
students or making them suffer for being
responsible athletes. Intentional or not, though,
it does happen. And in cases like this, an ath-
letic program that is constantly trying to over-
come the many obstacles that face one of the
smallest Division I school in the nation suf-
fers yet another disadvantage.

Hopefully this is an exception, and it likely
is. It would be hard to find out if it weren’t, at
least from the players. They’re not about to
complain.

“That’s just the way it goes,” the athlete
says.

It shouldn’t be.

his match twenty minutes early due to the
embarrassment of his actions. Carlos Jose
Figueira Ferro, who was ref-ing a soccer game
in Anama, Brazil, was about to send off Paulo
Coise for misconduct as he proceeded to reach
into his back pocket for a‘red card. What he
did pull out was red, but not in the form of a
card. Instead, what were reported as red lace
panties were drawn from Ferro’s pants. With
that said, Ferro ended the game early, Coise
was never booked, and Ferro’s wife, present
at the game, who didn’t recognize the linge-
rie, got on her cell phone to file for divorce . .
. NO BOUNTY, BUT HEAD WANTED!
Also wanted, the person who stole the head.
The head of the Philadelphia Phillies mas-
cot, the Phillie Phanatic, worth $3000, is
missing. Tom Burgoyne, the man responsible
for acting as the Phanatic, left the suit in a
changing room as he took a short break from
a charity even at a Wachovia bank. When he
returned to the unlocked room, the head was
gone. Only someone in need of desperate
cover-up would surrender to stealing a green,
furry head with a large snout. How far is Pitts-
burgh from Philly?

Every man can have sports as his Valentine

By PETER ALLISON
Sports Editor

With Valentine’s Day fast approaching, I
would like to give a shout out to my first love.
At times she is cruel, leaving me with a sick
feeling in the pit of my stomach, but I will
always come back to her, for she has the abil-
ity to make my jaw drop, the ability to let me
sit back with a content smile on my face, even
the ability to make me feel like I am on top of
the world. Gentlemen, girls may come and go,
but my love of sports will last me a lifetime.

Aman’s love of sports is more than the per-
sonal enjoyment of a hobby. For one, it gives
every man the opportunity to be a hero. Any-
one who has ever hit the game winning shot
in a pick-up game, or scored the game-tying
goal in stoppage time, understands that feel-
ing, and the idea that no matter how exhausted
he may feel, or how close his legs are to giv-

-ing out on him, he must keep going.

The drive is different for everyone, but it is
alive in all athletes. It may be the fear of let-
ting yourself down, of knowing you stopped
running just one mile from home, and maybe

you could have finished it. It could be simply —

the desire to win, or just wondering what it
would feel like to finally get that first victory.

I played three years of high school football.
After my first twenty-one games, my team was
0-21. Going into my final game, the final game
of football in my life, I wanted nothing more
than to win that game. I wanted to understand
what it felt like to, in the immortal words. of
Vince Lombardi, to “‘lie exhausted on the field
of battle...victorious.” Every night during the
week leading up to the game, I went to bed
wondering how much I would regret
if...Luckily, I never had to deal with that feel-
ing. My glory days of high school sports ended
with my school rushing the field to celebrate
my team’s one victory.

Those are the moments every man looks for
when he steps on the field. Honestly, I don’t
even know how well I played. What I do know
is that I put more effort into that game than I
had in my body that day, because if I had lost,
I would not have wanted to leave that field.

I think a lot can be said for certain high
school sports, like football or soccer. Those
sports, as in others, force players to become
like brothers. I do not think anybody who has
played one of those sports could look me in

the eye and say that after four years of sweat-
ing with his teammates during practices, suf-
fering together through wind sprints, shedding
blood in an effort to reach the same goal, that
those teammates are not his brothers.

Even ona more superficial level, sports can
leave a person feeling enamored: sitting on
the couch and casually tossing the koosh ball
over your shoulder, then watching as it rico-
chets off the closet door, off the ceiling, and
hits nothing but net; trying to figure out how
that guy sitting opposite you just bounced

eight quarters in a row into that shot glass;

realizing that all a person needs to have fun is
a plastic bat, a ball with holes in it, seven guys,
and a beautiful day. All those feelings only
enhance our love for sports.

My eighth grade English teacher once told
me there were three great moments in life: the
moment when the mind finally figures out a
difficult intellectual problem and goes “‘ah ha,”
and the moment in sports when a person puts
forth a great effort and is justly rewarded. The
third, he said with a wink, we would know
when it happened to us. Well, moments one
and three are great, but I’ll take two, because
it’s so much easier to get.
