Staff Editorial

Embracing our
political diversity

After ahard-fought and divisive campaign season, this year’s
political elections fortunately ended without the ongoing re-
count tumults of four years ago. While a recent Davidson poll
shows that most students on campus may still be disappointed
over the final results, a record number of national voters made
the ultimate choice that George W. Bush will be our president
for the next four years.

Here at Davidson, a public opinion survey shows that 90 per-
cents of students planned on voting last Tuesday. No matter
what your political persuasion, this election, unlike others of
recent memory, truly brought out an increased interest in poli-
tics and civic responsibility that we hope will not dissipate in
years to come. Although our opinions may vary sharply, high
voter participation only increases the effectiveness, stability,
and esteem of our great democracy.

Although Republicans and Democrats are almost equally
divided nationally, here at Davidson students unsurprisingly
tend to espouse liberalism more than conservatism (for the 44
percent of Davidson students who don’t know which is which,
liberal = Democrat and conservative = Republican). But while
the student body’s leftist leanings might alarm some, compared
to most comparable undergraduate institutions Davidson’s po-
litical diversity is significant. Unlike other schools that can have
as much as an 80 percent - 20 percent breakdown, here at
Davidson about 54 percent of students are Democrats and 41
percent of students are Republicans.

Political ideologies can color and distort the way two people
understand the same facts. In an academic environment, politi-
cal diversity is an important asset that many schools lack. In the
weeks leading up to this election, many Davidson students were
able to engage in balanced and often heated political debates
both inside and outside the classroom. Because of this, our ability
to better understand people who think differently than us is much
higher than students at schools with wide political majorities.

With all that said, it is clear that voters in our basic age group
(18-29) err on the side of Democrats. National exit polls showed
our age group voting 54 percent - 45 percent in favor of John
Kerry this past election. While many often speak of the Davidson
“bubble,” in terms of political diversity at our age group,
Davidson is actually very representative of the greater popula-
tion. We can only hope that these patterns will persist.

Already, students on starkly opposing political sides just a

_ few days ago are now coming together to understand and learn
from this past election. On the national scale, as well, we can
never forget how lucky we are to live ina political system where
after the election, aleader is always chosen and the loser always
concedes.

The Bavidsonian

@ ALENDA Riise UBI ORTA au od

Soha Panag.
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior,Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
“Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
"Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors

THE DAVIDSONIAN

THURSDAY
NOVEMBER 4, 2004

Letters to the Editors

In commit-
ment to end
fraternities

Over the last few years it has become
apparent that the school administration has
taken up a policy to slowly extinguish fra-
ternal organizations.

Patterson Court has slowly changed
from being a safe and controlled place of
drinking, to a tool used by administrators
to enact new rules and regulations over
eating houses and fraternities.

Being a member of the court has shown
me just how far the administration will go
in using intimidation and scare tactics to
bring down fraternity membership and
eventually the fraternities themselves.

It is ridiculous that campus police, or
“campus safety,” can call themselves that.

Promoting safety certainly doesn’t mean
giving citations to a friend who had a
couple drinks and is taking a risk by help-
ing another student home who drank too
much. Those persons will certainly think
twice before “helping” a person who may
truly be in need of help again.

Campus safety has also become more
out of touch with students and is driving

their Gestapo tactics zealously on .

Patterson Court.

Just because there is an Honor Code
doesn’t mean that they can throw away
your civil rights. Astudent always has the
right to take the Fifth. Davidson Police
who question students immediately and
aggressively seem to insinuate that if they
don’t answer their brutal questioning they
are in violation of the Honor Code.

Patterson Court has trapped fraternities
on campus under policies that the admin-
istration intends for them to break. This is
why each year the school brings about new
policies one step at a time: to limit oppo-

sitten.

‘Let me make this clear to adminis-
tration. You cannot stop drinking, par-
tying, and social life.

You are treading on.dangerous wa-
ters and endangering student lives by
forcing them off campus and increas-
ing the number of people who drive
drunk and drink carelessly. For shame.

Jim Rastetter ‘07

for content, brevity and

Thefacebook.com is ruining a

By HALLey AELION
Staff Columnist

Do you hear it? Listen carefully. It’s not the sound of the
crack of the bat in the World Series. It’s not even the squabbling
of politicians in the upcoming election. It’s... nothing. It’s si-
lence. Silence interrupted by the tapping of a keyboard and the
click of a mouse. Students on Davidson’s campus are spending
hours in this silence, and in some extreme cases, days. What is

responsible for this eerie hush, this voluntary isolation of.

Davidson students in their rooms, glued to their computer
monitors? No, no, don’t fool yourself. It’s not school work. It
is the one and only Facebook.com.

Thefacebook.com. It’s an innocent name for a dangerous
phenomenon. An endless waste of time, this virtual social hi-
erarchy represents all that is detrimental about technology in
today’s world: it promotes our generation’s obsession with
superficial social standing while devaluing the importance of
person-to-person relationships. Furthermore, it is 100 percent
addictive and it is not going away.

Each student to join the Facebook begins with good inten-
tions. “Why not try it?” they figure. It could be fun... everyone
else is doing it. But like so many bad things in the world (drugs,
caffeine, pogs, Hanson), the Facebook is addictive. Members
become obsessed with their online persona. They feel they must
be by a computer at all times in case they have accumulated
more “friends” or received important e-mails. Triumphantcries
of “I have 300 friends! Beat THAT!” occasionally break the

'l our lives

quiet that has fallen on Davidson’s dorms, but soon after, both
the jealous onlookers and the elated announcer return to, their
respective screens.

So what becomes of the actual friends? Especially those few
who refuse to log onto the virtual world and prefer to live their
lives on the physical and real earth?

They are left behind, rolling their eyes at the stupidity that is
the Facebook. But those that are hooked take no notice. Who
cares about real friends if you cannot brag about their existence
in your profile? Why spend a quality hour with one close con-
fidante when you can spend that same hour sending pointless
messages to fifty shallow acquaintances? These are the mes-
sages the Facebook sends.

I’ve heard what people claim about how it is an invaluable
tool used to reconnect with old friends and classmates, but I, for
one, remain skeptical. If it is really so good to hear from those
people again, why not take the time to look them up in a phone
book and give them a good-old fashioned telephone call? Move
your mouth, not your fingers, and have areal conversation! Not
having enough time is not an excuse: look at all the time the
Facebook consumes.

So break free, Davidson! Just say no to the facebook. Get out
of your dorm and go! It doesn’t matter where: take some friends
to a soccer game, go see a play, go out to eat. Remember where
you are: there are 1600 other young, fascinating, intelligent
people around you, just waiting to be your real friend (although
I’msurethey wouldn’t mind adding you to their list of “Facebook
friends” as soon as they’re done meeting you).

Why are we all such a bunch of sissies?

By BRENDAN PareTS
Yowl Editor

Recently, I checked my e-mail and was surprised to find an
e-mail from a member of a campus organization that the Yowl
has parodied in the past. The contents of the e-mail contained
a thinly veiled threat on my physical and emotional well-being
if I chose to satirize a newsworthy incident about his organiza-
tion. In this case, I was more amused than worried because he
is my dawg, but the incident still rankled me. Part of the issue
was that the threat of physical violence was used to intimidate
me. Now, I might be wrong, but outside of organized crime
syndicates and other illegal ventures, physical harm is not com-
monly accepted in this country as a method of coercion. I might
not bea pacifist, but I strongly disagree with people being threat-
ened for either their beliefs or their reporting, however spuri-
ous that reporting in the Yow! might be.

Still, I think that the incident illustrates something more in-
sidious than Davidson students’ propensities to use violence to
get what they want. Pretty much, there is no muckraking at
Davidson. Trust me, Iam nocountercultural guru, but I still feel
stifled here. Whether it comes from the students, the faculty, or
the administration, the Davidson culture strongly discourages
people from making waves. There seems to be a controlled
apathy at Davidson; it’s far more politic:to not show strong
feelings. How many students came out against the Trustee re-
ligious requirément? How many students ask what exactly Smart
Enforcer does to their computers? For no fault of the Editors

who do their best under severe constraints, to me the
Davidsonian sometimes seem like a press release for the school.
If one does write something that bothers, say an athletic team,
the whole team will see themselves as being the victims of some
injustice; as the theory goes, criticism of the school or its orga-
nizations shows a lack of school spirit and is somehow dishon-
orable. The Davidson rule seems to indicate that in order to be
well liked, don’t argue and don’t be controversial. The reluc-
tance to cause disagreements may stem from Davidson’s con-
servative roots, small size, or high academic workload, but we
still need to transcend those hurdles. Without strong opinions,
we cannot have proper intellectual discourse. When I speak of
the deficiency of intellectual atmosphere at Davidson, I am
certainly not critiquing a dearth of intelligentsia debating ab-
stractions to all hours of the night. On the contrary, I could not
care less about Proust or Hegel. It was the lack of pretensions
that attracted me to Davidson in the first place. But, without
student activism, the school will settle ina rut. We are all worse
off without learning how to properly argue for our opinions.

We are in college. This is our chance to express ourselves.
Let’s mobilize and get something that we want; if it’s not reli-
gious diversity on the Trustees, at least better food in Com-
mons. I’m not asking for Wesleyan, but students need to put
themselves out there for their beliefs. Our number one Quality
of Life ranking on the Princeton Review should not be caused
by going through college in some Novocain-like state of bliss,
but instead on feeling as if we are challenged every day, not just
by our courses, but by our peers as well.
