14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Wi_son McCrory
Senior Staff Writer

“Entrekin’s Hit Streak Comes to an End in
10-0 Loss.” While Alex Entrekin ’06, the start-
ing catcher for the Davidson baseball team,
got grief for the headline, it was not at all sur-
prising when the Davidson Athletics site noted
this on their front page last Friday.

It seemed somewhat out of place to put the
individual note ahead of the team result, but
the season to date has been less than memo-
rable for the 8-11 Wildcats, despite two wins
against ACC counterparts Wake Forest and
Duke. The performance of Davidson’s new
star catcher, however, has been catching some
attention.

[This season’s] been tough, and we’ ve had
a couple of close losses,” notes Entrekin of
the 8-11 start, “but the last two games we’ ve
really started to put things together, and the
young guys are stepping up. Plus, any time
you can get two ACC wins, that says a lot
about your program.”

One of those young guys stepping up, and
a highlight of the disappointing early season,
is Entrekin, who has been by far the most con-
sistent offensive threat in the Wildcat line-up.
Last season, as a freshman, Entrekin split time
with classmate Dan Obermeier behind the
plate, starting in 26 games and appearing in
28. He started off his freshman campaign well,
batting 12-40 (.300) over the first half of the
season, but he cooled off over the latter half
to finish with a .222 average.

This year, Entrekin was again expected to
share backstop duties with Obermeier, but in-
juries to his sophomore counterpart have lim-
ited Obermeier’s playing time, leaving

SPORTS _

Tennis splits two on the road
to begin conference play

photoy by Dorsett Clark

Alex Entrekin 06 leads the team in batting average (.352) and RBIs (12).

Emerging star Entrekin hits
stride at and behind the plate

Entrekin behind the plate on a daily basis.

“(Playing every day is] tough on the body,”
he concedes. “I’m usually pretty exhausted
after a weekend series . . . At the same time,
though, it’s a lot easier to get into a rhythm as
a player when you’re out there all the time.”

: And before he finally saw his 17-game hit
streak snapped against Elon last week, he was
certainly in that rhythm.

“There.actually was some pressure with the
streak,” Entrekin admits, “‘as a bunch of my
friends were dogging me when the Sports In-
formation guys started putting it in their ar-
ticles after about nine games. It’s nice to have
pressure at every at-bat, but I definitely felt it
during that streak.”

For the season, Entrekin’s batting average
has jumped from .222 to .352, an increase of
130 points and 10 points higher than the clos-
est Wildcat.

“T think I’ ve learned to adjust to the college
game this year,” he says of his newfound suc-
cess, “as the speed of the pitching and the
quality change-ups are really hard to pick up
initially . . . Still, I’ve gotten a lot of luck this
year, as a bunch of my hits are balls that just
get by the second baseman, or something like
that. Also, I think there are just a lot of great
hitters in our line-up, and that makes it easier
to get good pitches to hit.for everyone.”

And for the record, after going hitless in the
first two games of the weekend series with
Elon, Entrekin began a new streak in style on
Sunday against Phoenix, knocking in the
game-winning runs with a two-out, two-strike
single to left in the bottom of the eighth in-
ning.

This time, however, only the Davidson win
made the headlines.

“PANINI” $4.99

FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
Shops on the Green « 177@ Exit 28

704-896-3190 »

www.ferruccis.com

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

After emerging from arguably their most
grueling and challenging non-conference
schedule in recent years with an 8-6 record,
the women’s tennis team finally embarked on

. their Southern Conference campaign last

weekend with two away matches.

Afier éaveling to Statesboro, Georgia on
Saturday to face the Georgia Southern Eagles,
the Wildcats took on the College of Charles-
ton Cougars in Charleston on Sunday. The two
long days of travel and tennis produced a 1-1
record for Davidson and growing confidence
for the forthcoming conference matches and
conference tournament.

Picked in the preseason coaches’ poll to fin-
ish sixth, right in the middle of the SoCon
pack, and with one solid conference win al-
ready to its name, Georgia Southern was a
challenging team against which to open con-
ference play.

But the Davidson women were up to the
task, coming out strong in the doubles with
wins at all three positions. In helping the ’Cats
earn the doubles point for the early 1-0 lead,
all three doubles teams improved their impres-
sive winning streaks: Kelly and Meghan
Fillnow ’05 extended their streak to three
matches; Meggie Patterson 05 and Lindsey
Powel ’06 won their sixth straight; and
Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05
stretched their winning streak to seven with a
victory at the number three slot.

The Wildcats experienced similar success
in the singles matches, winning four of the
six matches in straight
sets. Only Kate Levitt

WeEpneEspay, Marcu 24, 2004

ence champions who defeated them in last
year’s championship match. All three doubles
matches were highly contested, but only Kelly
and Meghan Fillnow wer¢ able to emerge vic-
torious, earning a 9-7 win at number one and
stretching their winning streak as a team to
four.

Already down 1-0 after losing the doubles
point, the women needed to get out to a strong
start in the singles matches. Only Patterson at
number two and Levitt at-five were able to
win their first sets, though, as both fought their
way to straight set wins.

The other Cougar
women proved to be
too tough for the
Wildcats, as
Davidson fell in
straight sets at the
one, three, and four
positions to give
Charleston the vic-
tory. At number six,
Hatch rallied to win

the second set after
losing the first. But record on the

because the overall ‘team this year.
match had already been decided, Hatch and
her opponent played a tiebreaker in place of a
full third set, which Hatch lost 12-10.

The win for Patterson was her seventh
straight, and her recent dominance at the num-
ber two position earned her SoCon Player of
the Week honors for the week ending March
22. .

The 5-2 loss was disappointing for the Wild-
cats, who hoped to avenge their defeat in last

season’s champion-

705 has the best

07 at number five and
Powel at number four
were pushed beyond two
sets, facing tough
matchups against the
Eagles’ strong middle

“ “Ga. Southern is a young
team that’s better than pro-
jected... our experience was a
big factor. Mentally, we were

ship match. One
major positive did
emerge from the
match, according to
Cantrell. ““We know
we can beat them
the next time we

players. very well-prepared.’ ” play them,” Cantrell
Levitt dropped the first _ . said.
set of her match before Assistant Coach Cantrell Coming up for the

storming back to easily

women is a grueling

defeat her opponent 3-6,
6-1, 6-1. Powel was less
fortunate, losing her match in a third-set
tiebreaker to her relentless, hard-serving op-
ponent, bringing the final margin of victory
for Davidson to 6-1.

“Georgia Southern is a young team that’s
better than projected,” said assistant coach
Kelley Cantrell. “Our experience was a big
factor. Mentally, we were very well-prepared,
and the girls were really into that match.”

The ’Cats hoped to carry their momentum
into Sunday’s match against College of

Charleston the defending: Southern Confer.

_
4s
®
led
a

schedule of five

matches in six days,
starting Friday at home against Chattanooga
and ending next Wednesday at home against
Western Carolina, with three road matches in
between. Chattanooga should be the toughest
of the five matches, though every match in
the conference this year is challenging due to

_ the parity.

“There are six schools in the conference that
are pretty close,” remarked Cantrell, indicat-
ing that the ’Cats will have to fight hard to
achieve the conference championship they
covet.

gt cape SEER eR et
