-

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Id LSD AEST eS Stas ee B ee EOE MOON IES

Bites,
CEE. Ae Vale Sita Ee

HUMOR

ragprrenenperecrece

Professor just realized he’s old

“Meatballs”
apparently not
hip anymore

By THoMAs ANSTROM
Senior Staff

CHAMBERS-—Associate Professor of His-
tory Michael Gruder came to a frightening
conclusion is his “Warfare and the 1940s”
seminar this Monday: he is old.

The realization struck during the
middle of Gruder’s lecture on “The Japa-
nese in 1940's Bugs Bunny Cartoons,”
when he unsuccessfully attempted to ref-
erence the 1970s “classic” “Meatballs”
time and time again. When even his best
"You are walking around with a sombrero
full of peanuts" failed to amuse the class,
Gruder finally threw up his hands and
asked who had seen “Meatballs.”

“This is one of the
saddest days
of my life.”

When no hands went up, the realiza-
tion suddenly struck home.

Said Gruder, "This is one of the saddest
days of my life. I always assumed that I
was one of those cool teachers, you know
the one's who go to the concerts and stuff
like that. I guess I'm not cool after all. I'm
just an old guy.It finally happened.”

Gruder then broke into tears and im-
mediately proceeded to cancel his semi-
nar for next semester entitled, "The
1970's: The decade I was raised in."

Gruder's students were almost
as horrified as he was by the experience.
“God, I hope I am never that hopelessly
out of touch,” said Jen Warner '04. “At
least I feel good knowing my knowledge of
witty “Office Space” quotes will keep me
cool for years to come."

SELF HELP

Professor Mike Gruder (inset) realized he was old this Monday,
joining the ranks of old professors like these pictured above.

THE YOWL |

Voted The Davidsonian’s best humor
section, one semester running!

@
%, Me
42) 7) |
2»

lonor Cont

| never Knew how popular |
was until I joined Resiet!

Now, I don’t have to tell you guys—I’m
a pretty smooth operator. It’s no secret
that the ladies naturally take an interest in
me, whether smiling at me on their way to
class, or respectfully declining an invita-
tion to see my recently purchased Special

Edition DVD of the third “Matrix.” But.

lately, I must say, I’ve been meeting more
girls than I would ever have dreamed
possible—and all thanks to my new job. I
just never knew how popular I was until I
joined ResNet!

My decision to join ResNet began last
week, when word started circulating
among my Technology Club friends that
the lead student computer consultant had
left due to pro-creative differences. At first
I wasn’t so sure what to think when some-
one said I should apply for the position.
After all, I’m not exactly a whiz with
JAVA, and my knowledge of C++ is hon-
estly just perfunctory. Howeyer, I did take
an electronics correspondence course last
summer, and once successfully pro-
grammed the first half of a black-and-
white Star Trek trivia game on Hypercard.
So, I got up the nerve and sent an applica-
tion out. And that’s when the girls started
rolling in!

I used to get a lot of phone calls from
the ladies before. Why, two girls called
last Tuesday alone, one of whom, signifi-
cantly, was not my mom. But now?

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Humor Section

ALso CONTRIBUTING THIS WEEK
Jeff Yeakel

Students with story suggestions or
interested in writing should contact the
editor at coeagan@davidson.edu

They're ringing off the hook! Last night I
received 14 calls, virtually all from girls!
Of course, they don’t call my phone di-
rectly, but the special ResNet hotline, the
answering machine of which I am person-
ally responsible for checking. But it’s ba-
sically like they’re calling me.

Now, these just
aren’t your typical,
“how are you do-
ing?” phone calls.
No, these girls are
desperate. For me!
One might be hav-
ing a problem with
her disk drive. An-
other can’t seem to
get her AOL Instant
Harvey Bentz ’04 Messenger to open.
But no fear, maidens. Harvey Bentz is to
the rescue! Is it an Ethernet cable you
need plugged in? I can do that. Do you
need a virus scan run? I can do that, too.

And the girls are so appreciative. This
one freshman who’s e-mail I fixed must
have thanked me like ten times, because
she said now she could finally write her
boyfriend. She hadn’t written him in three

whole days! Can you believe that? It’s .

good I got there when I did—or she would
have been so thankful she wouldn’t have
needed to keep in touch with her boy-
friend anymore, if you catch my drift.
Because she'd have been dating ze!

Now we all know the ladies just love a
guy with a sense of humor. And honestly,
I crack them up. Some might consider
those seven to twelve minutes when the D
drive is running a preliminary defrag
cycle a little awkward, but not me. No, I
like to warm up to the customer with a
little Harvey Bentz computer humor. Be-
cause, let’s face it, there are just so many
great computer jokes out there.

Like hey, do you know why there was a

bug in the computer? He was looking for
a byte to eat! Get it? It’s a play off mega-
byte. Or how about this: What did the
computer call his father? Data! Oh, I wish
I could stop. But you know what they say:
you can’t teach a new mouse old clicks!
That was another joke. God, do the
girls love those. And you know what’s
cute? Sometimes they actually have to ask
me to leave, they’re having so much fun.
“Don’t you have other appointments?”
they say. “It’s getting pretty late, I guess
you really need to be going,” they say. But
I don’t mind at all. Unlike the other guys,
Harvey Bentz isn’t just going to service
you and run off afterwards—he’s going to

“This is one of the
happiest days
of my life.”

stay and talk! I guess I’m just sensitive
like that.

So yes, the social life has been pretty
peppy since I joined ResNet. I bet it’s just
a matter of time before one of these girls
wants to take the “professional relation-
ship” to another level, if you know what I
mean. Can you say first base?

And plus, I still can’t believe I’m work-
ing for ResNet. Did you know ResNet is a
subsidiary of ITS? I T freaking S! I don’t
have to tell you that’s pretty big. Anyone
like “business lunches?!” Cha-ching!

I like this job a lot. I guess it might be
that technology and I really do have a lot
in common. After all, you know what they
say: Computers are not intelligent. They

_only think they are!

sie vd AS ADI

fal tligion class el wieerh. wea tea ial

WepNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

15

BRIEFLY

and then when you tack on my pass-

mind boggling.”
When he is tearindled by otters Wak ask does hot, in fact, souaul es mnach trodke
Beane is quick to point out alll of the other obligations he has. “Think about it, there

for.”

is'21 Year Old Night on Tuesday, Thirsty Thursday's at the Brickhouse, not to men-
SL RY SOE a ere eee own of aoctal sisting ak haem reeporisible

When asked about his job search Beane replied, “Well actually Iwas just going
work at the beach or something this summer, so I still have plenty of time to fig-
ure out the whole job thing. But I tell you what, with as much Seinfeld as there is
on TV these days it’s a miracle I’m able to find time to talk to people.”

Beane’s roommates could not be reached for comment because, as econ majors,
they had not been seen outside of the Belk computer lab in over a month.

- Thomas Anstrom, Senior Staff

Watts up, dude?

Stoner accidentally selects Substance-Free living option

By Linpy BALDWIN
Senior Staff

RICHARDSON - Local stoner Philip
Peterson ’07 indicated that he was
“shocked and really pissed” to discover
Wednesday that his roommate, fellow
stoner Jack Alban '07, inadvertently
signed the duo up for substance-free
housing in the 2004-2005 school year.

“We flipped a coin for it, and Jack lost,
so he had to go to the RLO thing,” ex-
plained Peterson angrily. “We clearly
agreed that the loser of the coin toss
would go and get us a room while the win-
ner got to stay home and relax.”

According to Peterson’s account, he
dispatched Alban to lottery night with
clear instructions to get a room down the
hill in the sophomore apartments before
“relaxing” with several joints of expensive
marijuana. “I figured no one would notice
the smell down in Irwin or Akers - not
that they've noticed in Rich or anything,”
he explained. But unbeknownst to the
trusting Peterson, Alban had in fact spend
the afternoon sneaking several joints of
his own, and arrived at lottery night dis-
oriented and extremely hungry.

“Look, it wasn’t my fault,” Alban
claimed. “I was freaking starving, and I
just wanted to get out of there. I thought
Phil told me to get a room up the hill be-
cause the sophomore apartments smelled
weird, or something. I don’t know, I was

really out of it. Anyway, I saw there were
all of these rooms available in Watts, and
a couple of really hot girls picked Watts °
right before it was my turn to select our
room, so I figured hey, might as well. |

didn’t know it was sub-free!” Alban ad-
mitted signing a substance-free housing
contract, but claimed that he thought it
was “just another Honor Code thing.”

Peterson was not mollified by Alban’s
explanation. “Now I have to live an entire
freaking year in a clean, quiet dorm where
I won't be able to puke on the floors or
stink up the hallway with my smoking. It
sucks, man!” Peterson, a political science
major, indicated some interest in suing
Alban for breaching their verbal coin-flip
contract, but expressed concern that his
February possession arrest might come
up at trial.

CPRDummy , |
' Davidsonian Cartoonist

Sociology Professor

Brick Counter
Real-Live Crier
Carolina Inn Bellhop
Chef's Table taste tester
First Belk odor eater
ATC supplicant

- Mark Murray, Senior Staff

Condom Envelope Stapler

Belk Computer Lab Keyboard Disinfector | |
“Homage to Rodin” Homager

Practice Hurdle for Track Team

Woodrow Wilson Impersonator

Professor evaluation reader
Member of the “17% Club”

Worst Work
Study Jobs

me |
jobs are
just bad.
Here are
a few.

