iy

Minogue started fl

ute in the fifth grade.

Creative Type: Kate Minogue,
Davidson’s coffechouse songstress

By Brian CREECH
Special Contributor

Talented coffeehouse songstress Kate
Minogue ’05 has taken a careful and deliber-
ate route to becoming a solo performer. As a
devoted lover of music, the Baltimore native
began playing the flute in the fifth grade at age
10. She continues to play flute in the Davidson
College Orchestra.

The slightly adventurous and the very lucky
have sometimes been able to see Kate and her
guitar playing soulful, folksy ballads on stage
at Main Street’s Summit Coffee—where she
also works tending coffee bar—or at one of the
Union’s “Open Mic” nights.

Kate began working at the guitar in earnest
after arriving at Davidson College. Though she
had spent some time from the age of 14 dab-
bling with the guitar and piano, and her dad
would play guitar or piano songs around the
house while Kate was growing up, she truly
began performing guitar songs on her fresh-

Minogue performing on the patio
at Summit Coffee.
man hall, building up courage and falling in
love with the instrument.

Singing, though, was a different endeavor
almost entirely. Kate knew that if she wanted
to perform, she would have to build up the
courage to sing. To counteract this fear, she
auditioned for and joined the Davidson Col-
lege Concert Choir. After getting around the
initial trepidation of singing, Kate now has an
almost compulsive tendency to sing and per-

_ form. She credits her desire to sing and her love
of music for helping her get around any of the
nerves that may have stopped her before.

From her first open mic, at the beginning of
her sophomore year, Kate distinctly recalls the
sheer enjoyment of sharing music with other
people. She performed a haunting rendition of
Fleetwood Mac’s “Landslide” and a strong
cover of “Kathy’s Song” by Paul Simon.

The covers that she prefers to play are Joni
Mitchell’s “Case of You,” James Taylor’s

~ “Carolinain My Mind,” and, of course, “Land-

slide.” Recognizing the mellow nature of many
of the songs in her current repertoire, Kate has
been learning and playing many more upbeat
songs.

Also, Kate has been writing her own songs.
Given her musical training, she feels she has a
talent for crafting melodies, but sees her big-
gest obstacle in writing lyrics. As she contin-
ues to write, she is becoming more comfort-
able in her lyric writing and learning to trust
her instincts. :

In her own compositions, she derives her
inspiration from individuals she knows, rela-
tionships she has been in, and relationships she
has seen. Most of her songs are meditations on
these things. Her own musical style is influ-
enced by artists such as, Sarah McLaughlin,
Annie Difranco, Sean Colvin, James Taylor,
and Joni Mitchell.

The first time Kate performed one of herown
songs, she forgot the words. An amateur may
have misconstrued such a mishap as tragedy,
but Kate handled the lyrical slip with grace and
humor and continued to perform. As she con-
tinued to play, she found her footing again and
finished the song, all the while treating her
audience to an instance of candor and thanking
them for their tolerance.

After Davidson, Kate is decidedly undecided
about what she may do. She has thought about
the possibility of working ona dude ranch “out
West” for the summer or going to work for the
National Park Service. As an Economics ma-
jor with a Math minor, Kate has enough back-
ground to teach math—not out of the realm of
possibility for the aspiring songwriter.

Regardless of where she goes though, Kate
will keep playing music because it is an impor-
tant aspect of her life. She lives and loves it.
And, as part of it, she tries to play every day.
Some time later in November, Kate Minogue
will be playing again at Summit. Such is a treat
not to be missed. :

Minogue se playing the guitar
outside her apartment.

ARTS “ LIVING Tuurspay, NovEMBER 4, 2004
Cheap thrills of current

literature: magazines in review

By Anpy Martin
Arts & Living Editor

Students with a taste for both light reading
and wandering musty stacks of our own E.H.
Little will surely know that the library’s col-
lection of periodicals provides a fine, free way
to spend an empty afternoon. And being that
we stand just at the beginning of anew month
of magazines, it seems a fine time to survey the

’ current crop of gloss and newsprint—ranging

from the typically urbane but often stiff and
snotty (New Yorker, Atlantic, et al.), to the
arcane technical (The Association for Com-
puter Machinery’s Transactions on Architec-
ture and Code Optimization), to the magnifi-
cently crass (US Weekly).

Ourowncollege print culture, you will know
from these humble pages, has been revived of
late. In addition to this newspaper, Libertas,
and the recently renamed Unspoken Word (for-
merly Purple Bunnies), Woodrow will soon
join the College’s print community. With so
many enjoying writing, printing, and pamphle-
teering about campus, the cross-section of high
and low culture and commentary on the
library’s magazine racks seems aclear point of
interest.

So now to the task at hand: reviewing some
notable reads and eye-grabbing covers in this
November’ s crop of periodical reading. Begin-
ning in the periodical section’s middle
ground—National Civic Review to Notices of
the American Mathematical Society—your
correspondent found it more than difficult to
pass by the bold, red, stylized headline, —“‘Jude,
Cad About Town,” on the cover of the October
25 issue of New York magazine. While the
headline promised a juicy day-to-day on star
Jude Law’s recent stay in Manhattan while
filming Michael Caine remake “‘Alfie,” what
one finds instead is a fairly cut-and-dry argu-
ment on why Jude Law’s “Alfie” (not Jude
Law) is what writer Ariel Levy calls “a strut-
ting, preening, Prada-shoed Manhattan pea-
cock.” So much for debauchery.

November’s Journal of Popular Culture fea-
tures, as one would imagine it always does,
some high brow treatments of common culture.
“Why ‘The Andy Griffith Show’ is Important

ey ee

to Popular Cultural Studies,” by appropriately
named Don sprees! Maen rey immediately
catches one’s eye, The article’s thesis is that
the show is “a nostalgic American popular
cultural masterpiece valid for all time.” An
admirably bold claim, indeed; and one close
to this heart. ,

Still in need of something bawdy, your cor-
respondent headed a few rows west—Com-
mentary to Current Contents—where the No-
vember issue of Cosmopolitan smugly sits.
From grocery store racks, you will know it is
of late a trend for self-help magazines to quan-
tify their contents by printing covers with the
numbers of things a reader can be sure to find
inside. Cosmo does not disappoint: there are
“24 Ways to Make Yourself Happier,” ‘55
Things You Can Learn About Him in 10 Min-
utes,” and 2,101 “Guys” who “Voted on the
Look They Loved.” By your correspondent’s -
count, these were at least 2,180 reasons to bury
a sensory deprived face in the pages of Cos-
mopolitan for at least an hour or two on a
Tuesday afternoon.

Stephanie Booth’s “55 Things You Can
Learn About a Guy in 10 Minutes” proved to
be a less than adequate window into the fe-
male mind. Booth and a panel of “‘relationship-
skills coaches” advise women on how to em-
ploy “sneaky réad-him tips” to best effect when
“you’re curious about the new dude in your
life.” Most efficient questions? Booth advises
finding out a favorite sport, how he likes to
party, how he deals with traffic, and if he’s left
handed among other piquant questions for a

_quick and easy view of his inner soul, etc.

Briefly, one very bright spot in this month’s
periodicals is Atlanta magazine’s “Atlanta’s
Top 40” which ranks movers and shakers in
the capitol of the New South. Andre Benjamin
and Antwan Patton of Outkast rank 6th, ahead
of Georgia’s governor and just two spots be-
hind Ted Turner. The estimated influence of
the hip-hop duo is due to their having “pushed
Atlanta further into.the public eye” and their
status as what the magazine calls “this
generation’s Beatles.” As much as anything,
the list is a good show of the kind of intracity

intrigue that makes for an entertaining and
informative read.
