Che D

Wwidsontan

First CLass
U.S. PostaGE Paip
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

@ “THE SOUTH'S FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

Se
DAVIDSON COLLEGE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2004

VOLUME 95, NuMBER 13

. day off for classes in honor of MLK Day in
1997. It was not until three years later that stu-

of Charlotte, and Leviticus of Charlotte.

see MLK, page 2
for Kids.

Building
on the

colorful collage of ha
created during the King Day

ndprints

Cable TV
gets the final
approval

Vagt calls limited access
for freshmen ‘ludicrous’

BLair McGraw
Staff Writer

Atthe SGA meeting last Thursday, Presi-
dent Charles Washington ’04 revealed to the
body that its goal of cable in all student dorm
rooms had become a reality.

Washington announced that he had re-
ceived a letter from President Vagt approv-
ing the cable resolution.

In response to an initial decision to with-
hold cable from freshmen dorm rooms, Vagt
made it clear that “if it’s open, it’s going to
be open to all students.”

According to Washington, cable will be
provided ona “pay foritif you wantit” basis
5 and will include freshmen. He added that it

~~... | willbe available, “as soon as possible,”
which may or may not be.as.early as next
year, since there are logistical questions
including which provider to use.

Sophomore class President Jack Hubbard
’06 originally began the SGA’s campaign
for cable last spring in response to what he
saw as discontent among students because
of the lack of cable access on campus.

An October survey conducted by SGA
found that 80 percent of students thought
cable should be available in residence halls.
The survey also found 40 percent of stu-
dents would still want cable if they had to

nH the pay for it.
Hay Richard Shayegan ’07 felt that the deci-
a. Von sion will be, beneficial for students.

see Cable, page 3

Court Selection runs smoothly with new sorting method

BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

This past weekend Patterson Court witnessed the newest wave
of fraternity pledges and eating house inductees descend upon
the court, :

Court selection began with the announcement of eating house
selections on Friday afternoon. Approximately two-thirds of
the girls received their first choice.

“It worked out for most people,” said Julia Brown ’07, anew
member of Warner Hall.

Most fraternities and eating house kicked off the evening
with initiation activities for their newest members. The nature

of these activities differed from house to house. Fraternity lead-
ership describes the evening’s events as achance for the pledges
to have a good time.

KAofficerTyler Covington ’05 said, “Our house tries to make
this weekend as fun as possible for the freshmen...The week-
end is really designed for them in the first place.”

This approach was a common theme, with fraternities aban-
doning the hazing rituals that are so closely associated with
initiations.

“We worked pretty hard to get these guys, so we won’t treat
them too bad,” assured Matt Monson ’05, a SAE officer.

The eating houses also featured their own initiation activi-
ties. Eating house leadership reports that the night’s activities

centered on the freshmen’s enjoyment.

“Things went better than ever,” said Warner president Rachael.
Voyles of last Friday. “For Warner Hall, court selection night
is simply about having fun.”

After initiation activities had concluded on Friday, most court-
goers crowded into several eating houses for the remainder of
the night. Warner Hall was the scene for much of the dancing
despite a floor covered in syrup, chocolate and other fluids left
over from initiation.

“Everybody was trying to do laundry in the morning,” said
Travis Brown ’07.

see Court Selection, page 6

Ted 12) tsi. 4.@ NEWS: Seniors robbed over winter vacation

your
computer?

The latest trend hits
pee ae | avidson’s book-
store: ‘Dr. Atkin’s

Diet Revolution.’
As PAGE7

> - al . . rv? a“
i at 1ots o C1
CONVINCING

contender.

SPORTS, PAGE T!

