By Steve KALIsKI
Senior Staff writer

I wonder what “Ladder 49” is about. Is it
about raging flames and explosive sound ef-
fects? Is it about John Travolta gracefully shy-
ing away from the public spotlight with a role
so undemanding that his fellow performers
actually simply refer to his character as “the
captain?” Or is it about Hollywood cashing in
two years too late on the waning fervor of post-
9/11 patriotism?

ask these questions because I know beyond
a doubt that “Ladder 49” is not about
firefighters. If it were, then the movie would
not resemble a carbon copy of a thousand other
films not about firefighters. Futilely mining the
long-barren concept of the perfect American
hero, “Ladder 49” dishonors its supposedly
revered subjects by turning firemen into vapid
figureheads for heavy-handed Hollywood pro-
paganda.

“Ladder 49,” a completely fictional and
derivative film, religiously adheres to a text-
book that can only succeed for true stories.
Director Jay Russell sets out to deify his cen-
tral character with the same intensity and ear-
nestness applied to movies such as “The Per-
fect Storm” and “A Beautiful Mind.”

The problem, however, is that “Ladder 49”

Fire-fighters follow predictabe plot.

Herding hip cats: trip to Asheville concert a chaotic success

By ANpy MartTIN
Staff Writer

It’s 3:45 p.m. on the afternoon of September
24, 2004. I’m standing on the hood of a
Davidson College Ford Excursion, arms out-
stretched like a beardless Moses, surrounded
by a cross-section of Davidson hipster-dom
sweating in the sun. We’re going around the
circle, saying everybody’s names in what
seems to be shaping up as not much more than
an exercise in futility: everyone knows every-
one else but me. And I have absolutely no idea
what the hell I’m getting into.

This week in the Arts and Living section,
among other pieces of quality student journal-
ism, youll find a movie review and a firsthand
account of a night down on Patterson Court.
Id think it safe to say that the Arts and Living
section cares about your Friday nights. Well,
it’s too late to go now, but acouple Fridays ago
WALT radio sponsored a shuttle to the Wilco
show in Asheville, North Carolina.

Thirty-three of us packed ourselves into three
Davidson Excursions anda single SUV (whose
fold down seats accommodated six of us in
stylish comfort), drove two hours through re-
splendent North Carolina scenery, and saw one

tackles a childish daydream instead of a real
person. Protagonist Jack Morrison (Joaquin
Phoenix), the earnest Irish-American everyman
who loves his job, his family, and his country,
offers no more insight into true heroism than a
Lego fireman.

If given a description of both this character
and the first ten minutes of the movie, any five

year-old in America could predict this plot’s _

square and conventional course to the finest
detail.

If you don’t believe me, I’ll give you the
summary and you can play “Guess the Really
Predictable Outcome!” on yourown. Morrison,
a devoted search-and-rescue fireman, finds
himself in a bit of a fix while battling flames in
a towering inferno. As he struggles to fight his
way to safety, he flashes back to his whole-
some, humble beginnings as an American
firefighter.

The city assigns him to Ladder 49. He meets
the boys. Captain Mike Kennedy (Travolta) is
areal neat guy. Morrison fights fires. He meets
a girl in the supermarket and falls in love. He
fights fires. He gets married and has kids. He
fights fires. He dreams of being the best he can
be. He fights fires. Etcetera, etcetera, etcetera.

Phoenix, who is more effective as.a whiny
supporting actor (“Gladiator”) than as an un-
derstated lead (““The Village’’), either doesn’t

€

of the best bands on the planet. What follows
is a firsthand account of the evening, but I must
offer this disclaimer: this is the tip of the ice-
berg, folks. There are things that happened on
that trip that must never be spoken of.
Ifnothing else, the trip was cozy. Oneneedn’t
be a math major to work out that 33 people
divided between four motor vehicles equals out
toroughly 8.25 people per car. Thus, 9 in each
Excursion (filled to capacity), six in Boyle’s
Lexus. Everyone found their own ways of pass-
ing the time: some studied, some slept, acouple

of Bcc in my velticle did this Pianre cre- mas £ Wolle pirest, and oes Wolfe pod

The band as they hang out inside of the trailer.

understand or doesn’t appreciate the burden
Russell expects him to carry. “Ladder 49” is
so pompous that Phoenix doesn’t merely play
a hero—he plays heroism itself.

To call Morrison’s fellow firefighters “one
dimensional” would be to give the script too
much of a compliment. Screenwriter Lewis
Colick develops these characters so poorly that
I’m not even sure if they have one dimension.
Lenny (Robert Patrick) vaguely resembles “the
jerk,” but his meanness never extends beyond
cold stares and too many drinks. “The rookie”
(Jay Hernandez) has the potential to bring some
edge into the firehouse, but he essentially dis-
appears after his introduction.

This is ashame, because “Ladder 49” comes
alive, albeit traditionally, when the interplay
between the firemen is at its rowdiest.

The rest of the film spéaks in tones that can
only express themselves through abrasive
music, cliched writing, and an offensively sim-
plistic notion of what it means to be a hero in
America.

I’mnot giving too much away by saying that
“Ladder 49” closes with a ridiculous montage
of firemen going about their daily lives. They
slide down the poles, weave through the city
streets, rescue kittens from tree tops, and, of
course, fight fires. Is there anything more to
these men than these trite images we could have

ative writing exercise.

Then, of course, there was always conver-
sation, that old, awkward standby. As for mu-
sical selections, only on a WALT trip would
the car squeal with glee at the first sounds of
indie band Neutral Milk Hotel’s obscure fuzz-
folk classic “In the Aeroplane over the Sea”
the way preteens do when “Yeah” comes on at
their homecoming dance.

We made it to Asheville without incident,
despite some faulty Mapquest directions—the
fact that there is a Thomas Wolfe Road, a Tho-

Trying to put out a fire, this movie fails to save itself.

THe DAvipsontiAN
' WEDNESDAY
OcTOBER 6, 2004

recognized in first grade? Why can’t Holly-
wood give us a real movie about firefighters?
And why doesn’t “Ladder 49” have a single
Dalmatian riding shotgun?

P.S. I wouldn’t be surprised if John Travolta

has no recollection of starring in “Ladder 49.”

The former has-been of 70s disco films has
recreated himself as the has-been of 90s action
films, and Mike Kennedy is the perfect has-
been role.

If his choice to give an Irish Baltimorean a
Southern accent is any indication, Travolta’s
heart is with his paycheck instead of his craft.
Then again, maybe that’s a good thing, since
the last true labor of love he gave us was “Battle-
field Earth.”

a

torium is a bit infuriating.

We were soon loosed upon the streets of
Asheville. As anyone who has ever tried to keep
a group of thirty-three college kids together in
the coolest city in the state can attest, it was not
easy being the self-appointed mom of the trip.
We made some chaotic attempts at trying to all
go to dinner together, but it quickly became
obvious that the only restaurant that could seat
such a crowd was the Western Sizzler a few
exits back, and no takers for that one.

Soweended up going our own separate ways
for dinner: the unadventurous to Mellow Mush-
room, the health-conscious to the Laughing
Seed Vegetarian restaurant (where the soap
dispensers in the bathroom remind you that your
every act of micturition is killing the environ-
ment), and the apotheosis of cool to Subway.
The selection of limited-time specialty breads
was delightful.

And then we saw the show. How was it?
Incredible. Ecstatic. Awe-inspiring. Atleast for
those of us in section OR; those in the balcony
section weren’t as glowing in their praise. Of
course, it was Wilco frontman Jeff Tweedy
himself who sang, “T’ ve always been distant...”
What elsecan be said? Cool lights. Great songs.
But the Raleigh set-list was better.
