THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 20, 2004 3

Students create new publication

‘Woodrow’ to serve as out-
let for creative nonfiction
and short fiction.

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Davidson students Ward Long ’06, Wilson
McBee’06, David Saint ’05, Alice Nuemann
’06, Clark Candler ’07, Andy Heston ’05, Matt
Hassett’08, Martin Zahra.’06 are in the pro-
cess of producing ““Woodrow,” a new campus
publication.

Named after former U.S. President
Woodrow Wilson, who studied at Davidson in
1873, the magazine will be published on a
quarterly basis and will primarily contain cre-
ative nonfiction and short fiction.

The magazine grew out of ideas raised in
conversations between the cofounders and
other Davidson students last spring, as well as
a weekly writing workshop that Saint spon-
sored on fiction and poetry. Long, McBee, and
Saint realized there was no campus outlet for
longer journalism and fiction and decided to
start their own.

“None of those art forms have space in other
publications,” Long said. “Our aim is to be
accessible on campus. We brainstorm with
writers and have several edits. We try to value
each writer.”

Although Woodrow has no set staff writers,
19 people contributed art and writing for its
first issue. Director of Media Relations Bill
Giduz contributed a piece on juggling; other
highlights of the first issue include a spotlight
on MECCA, a Middle-Eastern students’ orga-
nization, and an interview with Director of
Public Safety & Police Fountain Walker. The
overall content mix includes creative long non-
fiction, interviews, fiction, poetry, and a sec-
tion devoted to student organizations.

“The focus is Davidson-centric,” Long said.
“We promote what’s already happening here
and expose the really incredible stuff going on
on campus.”

Woodrow’s extensive and personal editing
process differentiates it from other publica-
tions, which operate on tighter deadlines.

“It’s designed so that the goal is not only a

better article, but also better and more sensi-

tive writers,” said Andy Heston ’05, who wrote
an article on Patterson Court service require-
ments for Woodrow’s first issue. “For all the
emphasis on Davidson being a schoo} that can
really develop your writing skills, I think Alot
of people compartmentalize their writing too
much: the idea of writing for something other
than a grade is foreign to a lot of people.”

English professor Cynthia Lewis is
Woodrow’s faculty advisor and expects to help
the editors by giving advice about editing non-
fiction, documenting pieces, and fostering re-
lationships with writers. :

“I’m so excited about this project because
The Davidsonian and Libertas are instruments

of journalism, but we don’t really have a place |

on campus where creative nonfiction can go,”

- Lewis said.“They [Woodrow’s editors] see it

more as a writer’s workshop, a sort of literary
clearinghouse, where folks can place work that
has been shared already with writers on cam-
pus and revised because of that sharing.”

To become a student organization and cam-
pus publication, Woodrow had to be approved
by the Media Board and SGA. Its budget also
had to be approved by the Media Board, the
ATC, and SGA.

The group of students has been working on
the first issue of Woodrow for eight weeks and
expect it to be 16 pages long. Circulation will
initially be 700 copies, and the magazine will
be distributed free of charge on campus.

“Woodrow apparently mimics the New
Yorker in its confrontational yet informative
style,” said Kristin Apple ’08, who submitted
artwork to the magazine. “It allows for mul-
tiple perspectives and refuses to conform to the
norms. It questions. And it isn’t overbearing,
for it intends to probe with a sense of curiosity
rather than resentment.”

Long’s vision for “Woodrow” reflects his
desire for the magazine to spur student discus-
sion and debate on campus.

“The best description of it is taking
dinnertime conversations that we already have
and printing them,” Long said. “Our ultimate
goal is to get people talking about the issues we
raise.”

Students who are interested in writing for
future issues of Woodrow can email walong or
dasaint or attend a campus-wide meeting to be
held after the publication of the first issue.

~

Plans for upcoming year
discussed at Fall Retreat

By Lypir WHITE
Staff Writer

Thursday’s SGA meeting discussed SGA
day, notes from the SGA retreat, and early plans
for Class Forums.

Also, the establishment of the Diversity
Coordinating Committee at Davidson was an
issue brought forth at the meeting.

SGA held their annual Fall retreat this past
Oct. 3 at Irwin Lodge.

The goals from the retreat are toexpand tech-
nology services for students, such as getting
printers in the union; re-evaluate Freshman Ori-
entation, or Davidson 101; to expand Vamanos
Van services to daytime; to look at meal plan
issues; to utilize Cat-TV to increase communi-
cation with students; and to host class forums
so that students can have better outlets for of-
fering their input.

Freshman Senator Chris Catanese com-
mented on the retreat.

“We discussed our priorities, the strengths -

and weaknesses of SGA as an organization that
has an impact on campus, how to overcome

-those weaknesses, and outlined a set of goals

for the year.” said Catanese. He believes that
the goals were ambitious but attainable.”
SGA also discussed plans for SGA Day on
October 20.
“SGA Day is a day once a semester in which
we invite all members of the student body to
grab a burger, learn about SGA, and have the

opportunity to sign up for SGA committees”
said SGA President Katharine Hubbard.

The event will be Wednesday, October 20
from 11:30 to 12:30 atthe Amphitheatre. Also,
SGA discussed upcoming plans for class fo-
rums in November.

These forums would be an open opportu-
nity for members of each class to give feed-
back to SGA at specified date for their class.

Finally SGA enacted a new SGA commit-
tee, the Diversity Coordinating Committee
(DCC).

DCC will replace the previous committee
entitled, Committee of Minority Affairs or
COMA. COM A became null and void with
the introduction of the constitution of the DCC.
“We are trying to become’a support system
rather than another organization. We hope to
fill in the gaps or, bridge the Davidson com-
munity,” said committee chair Hanako
Kawabata.

The committee also wishes to give diver-

‘sity concerns a voice across all campus groups.

Kawataba spoke also of her realization about
how far Davidson has come already and
Davidson’s increasing progress in treating di-
versity.

She looks forward to even further progress
with these issues.

By becoming a support net for all campus
organizations, diversity concerns can be more
effectively handled, and groups can work har-
moniously toward solving any diversity issues.

Staley lecturer Cardenal discusses experiences in Latin America

By JAcKiE McKEOoN -
Staff Writer

Father Fernando Cardenal, a Nicaraguan
Jesuit priest, delivered the 2004 Staley Lec-
ture series on Sunday, October 17 and Mon-
day, October 18 in the 900 Room.

Father Cardenal spoke in Spanish and Tracy
King, a five-year Nicaraguan resident, trans-
lated.

Father Cardenal was chosen by the Staley
Lecture Committee, composed of students and
faculty, because of Davidson students positive
interactions with Father Cardenal on the Spring
Break Trip to Nicarauga.

“Students who heard Father Cardenal speak
felt deeply moved, both by his message and
his life,” said Reverand Rob Spach, head of
the Staley Lecture Series Committee and Col-
lege Chaplain.

“Walking Toward the Kingdom of God: A
Journey with Jesus” served as the theme for
Father Cardenal’s lecture on Sunday.

Father Cardenal discussed Jesus’s life and
his tremendous dedication to the poor.

“Jesus found himself with serious problems
in society,” said Father Cardenal, “not prob-
lems between the rich and poor like in my
country, but an inhumane religion.”

Father Cardenal talked about how Jesus
confronted the high priests and disobeyed their
inhumane and oppresive laws on behalf of the
poor. He concluded the lecture with a few re-
flections about the Christian life, and the ne-
cessity of taking action against injustices just
as Jesus did.

Reverand Spach found two main messages

in Father Cardenal’s first lecture; first, “Jesus’s
incredible concern for the poor and
marginalized. Second, how Jesus stood up to
those who had political, economic, and reli-
gious power.”

Some students disagreed with Cardenal.

“Tt sounded like people needed to live up to
some standard of performance to be right with
God. Frankly, I was slightly offended by the
talk. I felt like he portrayed Jesus as God’s Son
who came .to earth solely on a mission to res-
cue those who were outcast from society, and
by doing this set and example for us,” said Bill
Moore ’07.

“Walking Toward the Kingdom of God:
Politics and the Poor” was the theme for Fa-
ther Cardenal’s second lecture.

’ He spoke about his role as a Jesuit priest and
liberation theologian.

During his training as a priest, Father
Cardenal studied in Columbia for nine months.
The extreme level of poverty, unemployment,
hunger and death that he saw there inspired
Cardenal to dedicate his life to the liberation of
the poor.

“Everything I did after was inspired by my
experience in Columbia,” said Father Cardenal.

Father Cardenal joined the Sandinistas, a
revolutionary group, in 1979. As part of the
Sandinistas, he implemented a literary campain
backed by 60,000 youth volunteers in 1980 and
in less than six months around 400,000 adults
learned to read and write. Due to his involve-
ment with the Sandinistas, in 1984 the Vatican
expelled him from the Jesuit order. :

The Sandinistas lost power in 1990 and
peacably handed over the government, but not

before a great deal of money grabbing occurred.
Father Cardenal did not agree with the corrup-
tion he saw, and left the revolution in 1995.
Shortly after, the Vatican reinstated Father
Cardenal into the Jesuit order

Today, Father Cardenal continues to serve
the poor, primarily through education and his
work with “Faith, Hope, and Love,” a literacy
campaign based in Nicaragua. .

Father Cardenal ended his lecture by speak-
ing about his strong faith in young people and

their ability to do good. He complemented
Davidson students for their integrity and urged
them to become involved in a cause that mat-
ters to them.

“Dream of doing really important things
with your lives,” said Father Cardenal.

The Staley Lecture Series is endowed by the
1924 Davidson graduate, Thomas F. Staley.
The purpose of the Staley Lecture Series is to
provide students with the opportunity to hear
distinguished Christian speakers.

Ny

set

= (04's

\iegruilsaeigem?

VEGGIE MELT ; VEGGIE BURGER ~ VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP

SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE — VEGETABLE SOUP

Plas: FRESH Lame « aaiser JUICE
aia ORANGEADE. py auage AND HEME a

you didn't think of US
— for. veretarian fare!

MAIN: ‘ST. Davinoson-NC_

Lg

Eat-in Take-out ___

896-7743
Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

