4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

| Admissions, from page 1

all 409 students applied Early Decision.

The target for ED enrollment was 185 to'190
students.

“The data from ED Lis very strong. The class
profile is very high,” Ortmayer said, referring
to quantitative measures. He added they are
also impressive in categories that do not lend
themselves to numerical analysis, such as in-
dividual talents, interests, and accomplish-
ments.

The ED class is “fairly positive in term of
minorities that have committed already—both
African American and Hispanic, and also geo-
graphically diverse,” Ortmayer said. Gender
balance was also obtained in the subset of class
of 2008, with 98 women and 90 men.

Cable noted that compared to past years,
“This year’s pool has more students that in-
cluded Davidson as a first choice.”

Working the Numbers

To “hold the line,” the Admissions office will
change policies from recent years, getting more
involved in “‘a micromanaging of Admissions
policy,” Ortmayer predicted. That will mean
reducing the number of outright acceptances
and putting students admissions counselors
would love to see here on the waiting list.

The advantage of such a strategy is that
Admissions can get a better estimate of how
many students will accept their offer, known
as the yield.

Davidson’s yield is usually around thirty
percent of Regular Decision acceptances. Once
that number is nailed down, they will pull stu-
dents from the waiting list to get to 460.

“The liability of using the waiting list is you
may turn off people you really want,” Ortmayer
said. ‘Though in terms of quantitative data it
will boost us up, like in US News & World
Report.” He said that was only a fortunate
byproduct, and not a goal of the selection pro-
cess.

The new strategy is necessary in part because

of the dkéficulty in accurately predicting the
yield. After all, Admissions targeted 475 stu-
dents for the class of 2007, and made their best
guess about the yield based on past trends. For
a variety of reasons, that estimate was on the
low side and the class of 2007 enrolled 493
strong.

Ortmayer speculated on why the applications
keep oncoming. He said recent well-publicized
merit awards have had an impact; and Cable
concurred.

When Admissions switched from selecting

“Housing for the next few
years will be like a snake
eating a mouse... This would be
a good year to apply for off-
campus housing.”

--Leslie Marsicano,
Director of Resdience Life

the potential recipients to a policy of letting
home schools nominate a candidate, they an-
ticipated about 150 more applications each
year.

Last year 423 nominations were received,
and this year there are 580 nominees for the
nine scholarships, though not every nominee
will apply. Other merit scholarships like the
scholar-athlete Baker Scholarship draw atten-
tion, too.

“The game is becoming more complex,”
Ortmayer said. He cited the increased use of
the Common Application and online applica-
tions as other important factors in the increase
in applications, factors that complicate Admis-
sions’ job in guessing yields.

A Daunting Challenge for Admissions
Despite the record number of applications,
the burden will still fall on just 12 admissions

© skie

LOTTERY

Deadlines
http: //www2.davidson.edu/
studentlife /reslife_lottery.asp

EK

maction

isit

‘

counselors to read every application.
“We meet Michigan test case be-

Class Size”

cause we read every slip and piece of
paper,” Vagt said, referring to the
high-profile affirmative action Su-
preme Court decision this past sum-
mer. Therefore, every part of all 4000-
plus applications must be read.
Davidson does not rely heavily on
test scores in the selection process.
Cable said the most important factors
are “the rigor of the high school cur-
riculum, GPA, writing ability, lead-

Class of 2007 Class of 2008

..

Targeted @ Actual

Early Decision (I & II)

ership, personal promise,” andsoon. 450 -

Only then are more quantitative mea-
sures like SAT scores taken into ac-
count.

“It’s a privilege, and it’s hard,”
Cable said: She deflected praise from 4
Admissions by insisting that it’s a o—
labor of love. “Each year at this time
I’m just very thankful” to the com-
munity—faculty, students, staff—
that in Cable’s opinion drive the in-
terest in Davidson a nd positive ad-

350 +
300 -
250
200
150

Class of 2007

Class of 2008

* @Applications M@ Acceptances

Belk Nominations

nee 600
missions trends.

500

“We’ re just a conduit. I would just

like to thank everyone involved.” ao
300

Housing Implications 200
Because the class size will not be 1g

significantly smaller than a normal
Davidson class, the current alloca-
tion of halls for freshmen willremain
unchanged, with one exception. Little will now
house substance-free freshmen, and Watts will
house upperclassman. Richardson will still be
entirely first-year students, as will the base-
ment through third floors of Belk and top two
floors of Cannon.

Of the housing changes, Marsicano said, “I
thought I was doing [upperclassmen] a favor”
in assigning Little to upperclassmen last year,
because Little had been more recently reno-
vated. After receiving input from students this
past year, it seems students would prefer the
larger rooms in Watts to the newer spaces of
Little, so RLO made the decision to swap the

Barnes receives

By BLairn McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Every five years, the Sixteenth Century
Society and Conference (SCSC) awards a
medal to its scholar who has “done the most to
promote and to advance the area of early mod-
ern studies [ca. 1450 toca. 1600].” This year’s
recipient of the award is Davidson’s Dr. Robin
Barnes, Professor of History.

For 23 years, Barnes has been in the SCSC,
which includes scholars from all disciplines
who have an interest in early modern studies.

The SCSC “is a great group of people and a
very welcoming society,” said Barnes. “They
have high standards for scholarships but are
friendly.”

The award is no small feat, as it rewards a
long-term commitment with the SCSC, con-
tinual participation in the activities of the so-
ciety, and “significant contributions to the field
through publications, papers, leadership, and
support of younger scholars.”

More impressively, perhaps, is the work —

Barnes has done for the Sixteenth Century Jour-
nal. In 1994, he became the Journal’s associate
editor, a position he has held for nine years.
“It’s just a recognition mainly of the editing
position that I held,” Barnes said of the medal.

Barnes said his other responsibilities in-_

cluded “giving papers, organizing and chair-
ing sessions, commenting on sessions, and
helping younger scholars.”

As associate editor, Barnes reviewed schol-
ars’ submissions from all over the world con-
cerning people and events from the early mod-
ern era. He made initial judgments on the sub-
missions’ scHolarly value and appropriateness
and alsohad to reject unsuccessful submissions
while remaining sensitive to the writers.

- Barnes graduated from Colby College after
majoring in History and Philosophy. He then

attended the University of Virginia where he

Expected Increase

Class of 2007 Class of 2008

dorms.

“We’re not worried about the freshman
class...it’s the [rising] sophomores, juniors, and
seniors that are going to be a challenge for us
the next few years,” Marsicano said.

RLO hopes to not have any students in col-
lege-owned off-campus housing next year,
though that depends largely on Study Abroad
trends.

“Housing for the next few years will be like
asnake eating a mouse,” Marsicano said. Echo-
ing aconstant refrain, she said, “This would be
a good year to apply for off-campus hous-

”

SCSC medal

received his master’s and Ph.D. degrees.

He has been a member of the Davidson.
College faculty since 1980. Besides being a
history professor, Barnes also teaches in the
Humanities program and occasionally teaches
a research seminar for seniors.

In 1998, Stanford University Press published
his book, “Prophecy and Gnosis:
Apocalypticism in the Wake of the Lutheran

photo by College Communications
Professor of History, Dr. Robin

Barnes is sthis year’s recipient of
the Sixteenth Century Society
and Conference (SCSC) medal.
Reformation.” Barnes is writing another book
about astrology during Germany’s Reforma-
tion, which will show how “astrology trained
people to see time as a line, which helped them
become more historically aware” and thus more
impatient with traditional doctrines of the time.
