THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004 6

Liz debates the popularity of Uggs: practical or pitiful?

By Liz BILLeT
Senior Staff Writer

Gentlemen, you must understand the rela-
tionship between shoes and women. If I may
rely upon gender stereotypes for comparison:
shoes are to women as Cars are to men. Men, if
you like cars, you might watch NASCAR or
consider your mechanic a good friend. True
interest in cars means that you can identify
model, make, and year of any car by the sha
of the fender or the sound of the horn. You
obtain real joy from learning about cars or being
in the presence of a quality automobile.

Likewise are women who like shoes. They

Uggs:
Concert Review

May not work well with skirts

willread about shoes in fashion magazines, and
will become friends with their shoe salesman
(whether he be the assistant manager of Dis-
count Shoe Warehouse or Manolo Blahnik
himself). The true shoe worshipper has an in-
timate knowledge of styles and the years to
which these styles correlate. You obtain real
joy from learning about shoes or being in the

_presence of quality footwear.

Thus I admit: I write as a shoe lover. My
shoe collection is not all that great, but that is
because I blow my money on magazines so that
I can read about nicer shoes than the ones I
own. One such shoe I have read about is the
Ugg boot. Surely you have heard of the most

www. soe stoPoot.co

Noted jazz pianist sets
eclectic at Wake Forest

By ZacH WILLIAMS
Perspectives Editor

Jazz, as a popular art form, might as well be
dead. Even the most devoted jazz listener
would find him or herself hard-pressed to name
more than ten significant players on the scene
today.

Perhaps that’s why Brad Mehldau and his
jazz trio decided to reward an over-sold Wake
Forest performance hall of raucous applaud-
ers with arendition of Radiohead’ s “Exit Music
for a Film,” and not Duke Ellington’s “Take
the A Train” as an encore last Friday night. But
exactly what business do jazz musicians, often
too snobbish to consider pop music legitimate,
have playing Radiohead?

The Brad Mehldau trio, consisting of
Mehldau on piano, Larry Grenadier on Bass,
and Jorge Rossy on drums, has consistently
supplied a much-needed spark to the jazz world
for nearly ten years now. The trio’s continued
popularity, astonishing to say the least, is a
testament to the band’s hallowed_ability to
produce a truly unique and inspiring sound.

For jazz enthusiasts who happen to live in or
around the Carolinas, far from the more popu-
lar jazz venues in New York or Chicago, Fri-
day night’s show was arare treat. During much
cf the first half of the concert, the trio played

Jazz pianist Brad Mehidau_

in the intellectual and somewhat inaccessible
style that has earned them both praise and¢riti-
cism, offering unheard originals and a few
covers, including a harmonically adventurous
version of Thelonius Monk’s “Skippy.”

Fortunately, after a prolonged period of what
one might call “heady” jazz, Mehldau switched
gears with an unexpectedly emotional perfor-
mance of Gershwin’s famous ballad, “Some-
one to Watch Over Me.” Despite the formal
setting, a few audible “oohs” and “ahhs” were
heard from the audience as Mehldau seemed
to brilliantly apply his distinctive style while
also staying true to the melody.

Mehldau has also gained popularity with his
willingness to explore music outside of the jazz
idiom. The trio concluded Friday’s concert
with a cover of the Beatles’ “She’s Leaving
Home” and, as mentioned earlier, performed
Radiohead’s “Exit Music for a Film” as an
encore.

One might be immediately skeptical of jay
interpretations of Radiohead and Beatles tunes,
but Mehldau and his trio pull off these covers
exceptionally well, adding much to the rich
melodies of such songs as “Paranoid Android”
and “Dear Prudence” while maintaining the
original musical message and feel. ;

The future of jazz is unsure. While Wynton
Marsalis et. al continue to celebrate the tradi-
tional roots of the genre, Mehldau and Joshua
Redman, to name a few artists, seem willing to
explore new ideas and perhaps even cross-over
into other musical idioms for inspiration.

Then again, one has to wonder how “dead”
jazz really is as Norah Jones swept the 2003
Grammy’s in grand fashion with a predomi-
nantly jazz-oriented first album. Perhaps this
music can be revived by something as simple
as a pretty face.

For now, we can only hope that Mehldau,
Grenadier, and Rossy will continue to keep
alive the rich tradition of the jazz trio for many
years to come.

popular shoe of the season. They are suede flats
reminiscent of your grandma’s snow shoes and
there is a country-wide two month waiting list
to obtain them. Unless you break into your
grandma’s house and steal hers. I admit: I love
this boot. Yet so many people hate it.

First let us explore its merits. It is perhaps
the most practical shoe to have seized high-
fashion popularity inmany a winter. They have
toasty warm sheepskin innards and a durable
rubber sole. They are not heels. They look like
slippers undergoing a promotion—S0 percent
more free! Now covering your shins!

Thus they are perfect for nasty winter
weather in stylish American urban centers—
which have all foolishly been established in
locations that permit negative-degree weather.
Of course, fur trappers and Puritans were
clearly not shoe lovers.

Yet I feel they might’ ve liked the Ugg boot.
Strangely, its most avid wearers seem to be
located in Los Angeles where such stylish foot
ovens seem unnecessary. Perhaps this is one
cause of the dislike of the Ugg boot. When one
sees a picture of a celebrity trotting around in
80 degree weather wearing a miniskirt, pasties,
and Ugg boots, you think, whether you realize
itor not, “I bether feet are sweating.” Ugg boots
are thus unwittingly related by the collective
unconscious to athlete’s foot and the smell of
mildew.

Furthermore, such teeny tiny celebrities are
the only individuals who can don the Ugg boot
with a miniskirt or capris or, if you’re Paris
Hilton, chaps and a thong. Ugg-wearing com-
moners have probably anticipated the skirt-
with-boot look whilst purchasing their shoes,
and been sorely disappointed with the ham-like
appearance of their thighs when this look is
actually attempted before their bedroom mir-
ror. Anything that is taupe in color, lacking a

heel, or made to look like an ankle cast, is not,
how shall we say, slimming.

~ The Ugg brand has been sold in Australia

for much of the twentieth century, and the boots
were last trendy amongst Australian surfers in
the 1970s.’ Davidson students, who have en-
joyed a semester abroad Down Under, have
been angered by their “unique” purchase of Ugg
boots being trumped by B-list celebrities ev-
erywhere upon their return to the States. This
is the way of the American fashion industry.
As soon as something is “discovered” by the
famous, rich or beautiful on either coast, itnever
existed anywhere else.

I tuned into a television program this sum-
mer in which the designer Isaac Mizrahi, who
is currently compromising his high-fashion
social stock by creating a line of clothes for
Target, was allowed to peruse the gigantic
accessories closet in the offices of Vogue
magazines. (Car lovers, imagine you have been
miniaturized by Rick Moranis and placed in-
side the hood of a Porsche, free to explore.) He
clutched a pale blue Ugg boot and gasped, “The
shoe of the season.” At that moment, I too fell
for the Ugg boot.

It is so easy to call the shoe “Ugg-ly” (the
trendiest pun of the season). Yet there is some-
thing so attractive about the “anti-fashion”
shape of the shoe, because fashonistas love to
slum. Shoe lovers understand the popularity
of such a high-low dichotomy. Would [ really
like the boot if no one else did? Probably not.
Hype is a magical thing.

But there is also the pleasure of understand-
ing something esoteric. (Every kid wants'a
secret code, you Know.) So can I explain the
beauty of the Ugg to its critics? No. Nor can I
understand the awesome power of boxy car
covered in Kleenex logos driving in a circle at
200 miles per hour.

‘Applications are due February 13"
Interviews: February 16-20

