14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 8, 2004

Cross Country teams blaze different trails in 2004 season

pr Brittany Crawford and

Megal Atias: selina es wR

By PIERCE TRUMBO

Staff Writer

As the fall sports season dawns, the
women’s and men’s cross country teams are
journeying down different trails. The women
are seeking to defend and build upon their
first-ever Southern Conference Title from a
year ago. The men, meanwhile, led by 19-year
Head coach Gary Andrew, are hoping to im-
prove upon last year’s sixth-place conference
finish.

Improvement for the men, while certainly
possible, will not be without obstacles. After
losing three of their top seven runners from a
year ago, including most-valuable runner

New York University |

Sally Stanhope ’05 earned All-
SoCon honors last season.

Chris Schmader ’04, the men have several
holes to fill. A series of off-season problems,
ranging from mononucleosis to a leg injury,
will not make this process any easier.

These problems, though nagging and incon-
venient, are hardly insurmountable, and An-
drew is optimistic about the upcoming sea-
son. Captains Jonathan Baker ’06, last year’s
leading point scorer, and Nick Lehman ’0S5,
according to Andrew, “have taken their roles
seriously and are working hard to bring the
team together.” Additionally, sophomores
John Doehring ’07, Andrew Hazen ’07, Dou-
glas Noreen ’07, and Alex Varner ’07 “have
the potential to contribute to the team effort
and step it up over last year,” according to

We're visiting
your campus!

‘Wednesday, September 15

10:15 a.m.~12:30 p.m.

Davidson College

Nice Weather: North entrance of Chambers
Cold or Rain: The Union near the bookstore

Where will you study?

Florence » Ghana » London « Madrid = Paris =» Prague

/ We support students with resident

“@ You'll earn NYU credit while studying

s NYU offers scholarship opportunities.

Why choose NYU?

a We encourage host community
interaction through relationships
with universities, internships,
volunteer work, and excursions.

_ assistants, full-time staff, and
"extensive Course offerings, including
¢ “course work in disciplines not often
found on study abroad programs,
~ like premed and business.

with prominent leaders, scholars, and
artists of the host country.

New York University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.

dyAbroad

Nick Lehman ’05 is one of
Davidson’s top four returners.

Andrew.

The freshman crop is also promising, as
Andrew has been impressed with the early
season training of Sam Morris ’08 and Andy
Kilfer ’08 and expects that after the adjust-
ment to the collegiate format, they will “‘be in
our top seven, if not in our top five.”

Also contributing will be Lee Wheless 05,
Austin Mercadente ’06, and Matt Rhodes ’07,
who has just returned to training after a se-
vere case of mono. Wheless is at last healthy

The men have several
holes to fill. A series of
off-season problems,
ranging from mono-
nucleosis to a leg in-
jury, will not make this
process any easier.

this year. Baker believes, he, along with
Mercadente, are the runners to watch. Baker
also said Mercadante has “been leading most
workouts” this year, which is not surprising
since the junior paced the Wildcats in the sea-
son-ending NCAA regionals with a time of
32:43 in the 10K race last year.

Overall, Andrew was pleased with the off-
season efforts, and he feels that with “some
tweaking,” his team’s mindset will be where
it needs to be. He expects “that everyone will
round into racing form by mid-October, just
in time for the Southern Conference Champi-
onships.” Lehman supported this sentiment,
saying, “If we stay focused and work together
as a team, we’ll surprise some people on Oc-
tober 30.”

The women, on the other hand, return six
members from last year’s championship team

and add a group of nine new runners that se- -

nior co-captain Anna Brew’ ‘05 termed the
“best recruiting class the women’s program
has ever had.” As a result, it appears that
women are set for another impressive season.

The nine newcomers include five freshmen,
Megal Atias ’08, Brenna Burns ’08, Brittany
Crawford ’08, Colleen McKown ’08, and
Annie O’Donnell.’08. Also joining the team
will be sophomore Sara Madison Davenport
’07 and senior Meghan Fillnow ’05. Meghan
is the twin sister of Kelly Fillnow ’0S, the sec-
ond-place finished at last year’s Southern Con-
ference Championship. Allie Martin ’06,

Carolyn Mohr ’06, and Lindley Swartz ’05
will likewise return to the team from time
spent abroad. Rounding out the lineup are Co-
captain Ashley Griffith "05, Sally Stanhope
’05, and Carissa Skrivanek ’06.

With such a strong group of runners this
year, the ’Cats are aiming high yet again this
season in hopes of surpassing last year’s suc-
cess. Said Brew, “This season we also have
goals beyond the Southern Conference Cham-
pionship. This November we’ll run in the
NCAA regional meet, and we hope to do well
there. It’s possible for us to place in the top
five, which would be phenomenal, and qualify
us for nationals.”

Brew also says that the teams is like “‘a big
family,” and that they “enjoy each other’s
company and like to hang out together” away
from practices and meets as well. This cama-
raderie only adds to the excitement for the
upcoming year, as Brew said the team is “con-
fident and excited” to defend their title under
third year and two-time Southern Conference
Coach of the year Jen Straub.

