THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

15

_

~

|

Meghan Fillnow ’05 leads the team with a 6-1 singles record. She was
the only Davidson player to win both of her matches this weekend.

Win vs. Queens snaps three-
game skid after AASU loss

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

A rivalry that started as a convenient stop
on their spring break trip last year came full
circle for women’s tennis last week, as they
hosted the Armstrong Atlantic State Univer-
sity Pirates. Head coach Caroline Price no-
ticed some of Armstrong’s players at a tour-
nament several years ago and decided that,
given the opportunity, she would like to com-
pete against them.

So when the Wildcats drove through Savan-
nah on their way to several spring break
matches in Florida last year, they stopped at
Armstrong Atlantic for a match in which the
Wildcats were surprisingly overwhelmed 7-
2. Both coaches recognized the great compe-
tition between the two teams, and Armstrong,
the fifth-ranked team in the country in Divi-
sion II this season, agreed to travel to
Davidson to play the Wildcats this year.

The Pirates were even stronger this season,
though, boasting singles players ranked first,
17th, and 26th in the nation in D-II and doubles
teams ranked fourth and 11th. The Pirates, a
heavily international team with only one
American player on the roster, overpowered
Davidson 6-1 on Friday afternoon at the
Knobloch Tennis Center. _

In the doubles session, the Wildcats started
slowly in two of the three matches, with
Katherine Hatch ’04 and Sarah Borkowski ’05
unable to reverse their fortunes and falling 8-
1 at the number three position. At number one
and facing the 11th ranked doubles team in
D-II; Kelly and Meghan Fillnow ’05 fell be-
hind an early break and could not regain the
lead, ultimately losing 8-4 and giving
Armstrong Atlantic the doubles point. With

‘the doubles point already decided, the num-
ber two doubles match became a battle of
pride. Meggie Patterson 05 and Lindsey
Powel ’06 got an early lead that they struggled

to hold throughout the set. After allowing their

opponents to get back into the match,
Patterson and Powel closed out the match in a
tiebreaker to improve their record together to
6-1 this season.

Down 1-0, the Wildcats suddenly needed
to win at least four singles matches to avenge
their loss to the Pirates last year. But the Pi-
, Yates came storming out of the gates with pow-
“erful shots from corner to corner, not allow-
ing the Davidson women n to get into much of
a rhythm.

“They had very few cals observed
Price. “They were physically very strong.”

Indeed, the strength of the Pirates proved
to be the decisive factor in the match, as often
they seemed to simply overpower the Wild-
cats. But the Wildcats did not give up, fight-
ing hard until the last ball was struck.

Kelly Fillnow had the unfortunate task at
the number one position of facing the top
player in D-II. Fillnow held her own at first,
losing a tight first set. But the second set
proved to be another story, as her opponent
justified her ranking by wearing Fillnow down
and closing out the match for a 6-4, 6-0 vic-
tory. In her first singles action of the season,
Borkowski also played closely with her op-
ponent at the sixth slot, losing a hard-fought
match 7-5, 6-3 to the 26th-ranked player in
D-II. ;

The highlight of the day for Davidson was
Meghan Fillnow’s performance at the num-
ber three position. Competing against the 17th-
ranked player in D-II, Fillnow played the long-
est match of the day, over three hours, and
emerged with a 6-4, 6-7 (5), 6-4 win. Her
fourth straight win extended Fillnow’s record
on the season to a team-best 6-1, including
wins against N.C. State and Campbell.

Price praised Fillnow’s toughness: “That’s
three straight matches that Meghan has been
very mentally tough. She always finds.a way
to win. She puts herself in a position to win
and works to her strengths. She’s fearless.”

On Saturday the Wildcats were back on the
court, battling Queens University at 10 a.m.
The ’Cats got an early-morning Valentine’s
present in the form of the Royals, getting back
to their winning ways with an easy 7-0 vic-
tory in less than two and a half hours. Though
several Wildcat players commented that the
Queens women had improved, the Royals
were still no match for Davidson.

“The roles were reversed on Saturday,”
commented Price. ““We got beat up on Friday,
and we turned around and beat up on some-
one else the next day.”

After a late cancellation of a Monday after-
noon match against High Point, the team has
an open schedule until spring break, when they
will travel to California to take on four strong
west coast teams that will certainly help the
*Cats continue to improve on their path to-
ward the conference season.

“We’re on line with the goals of the pro-
gram right now, and those are to win the
SoCon and reach the NCAA’s,” said Price.

“We’re well-positioned, in terms of experi- -

ence, talent level, and schedule, to make a run
in those last two to three weeks of the sea-

”

son.

Annette Watts hopes to ‘hang
banners’ for women’s hoops

By WALKER SAik
Senior Staff Wrier

When Annette Watts first took the job as
the head women’s basketball coach, she no-
ticed something discomforting about the pro-
gram.

There were no banners. No tradition. Noth-
ing.

Watts has set her mind on turning things
around, and, sure enough, women’s basket-
ball has been opening some eyes.

“I want it to be a consistent tradition,” said
the fiery red head with extensive high school
and collegiate experience. “You hate to play
Davidson basketball because it’s going to be
a hard-fought game every time you step on
the floor with the Red and Black.”

It doesn’t take long to realize how this year’s
team snuck past opponents and into second
place in the SoCon earlier this month: Coach
Watts believes, and her team believes.

To be more specific, when Coach Watts
talks basketball, it’s not in the ordinary loosey-
goosey chitchat manner. Think of that Voice
in NFL Films on ESPN or the movie preview
voice. That’s the tone. It’s inspirational and
contagious.

It didn’t take much for Coach Watts to make
believers out of her team. Her main focus for
change? Defense. Hardcore, rough, and tough
defense.

The number one thing this staff brought was
an intense desire to play defense, and this team
has bought into that desire,” said Watts. “Three
years ago we were dead last, bottom of every
defensive statistic, and we’ re in the top 3-4 of
everything now.

“And that just comes from our players buy-
ing into our system.”

And then there are those five seniors who
grew up under Watts’ system. These same se-
niors now run the team, leading the Wildcats

I HAD THE
SAME QUESTIONS.

1 | get my MBA without
i business degree?

Can | study abroad?
Can | afford it?

Can | reach my goals?

in six of ten statistical categories.

“These five bought our system early on and
have been constantly working to raise their
game,” said Watts. “But you’ ve got to remem-
ber there are nine behind them that push them
every day, that challenge them every day, and
that believe in those five seniors.’

The team has come across tough times,
though. They’ ve lost three in a row, including
a crushing two-point loss against Elon on a
not-so-happy Valentine’s Day. Does Watts
think this team can claw back?

“Yes, I do,” she responded in her slow and
deliberate tone. ““That’s what we’ve worked
for all year, and there’s no device to measure
the hearts of five seniors and neither is there
any calibration to
measure the
underclassman’s de-
sire to be the first to
hang a banner.”

But it’s not like
Coach Watts ex-
pected a Worst-to-
First Carolina Pan-
ther-style season.

“It’s a process.
You don’t’ go from a [9-18] team to the top of
your league without growing pains,” she said.
“To use the words of one of the players, ‘we’ ve
gone from being the hunter to the hunted: ev-
eryone wants to get us.’”

But don’t think this coach is getting caught
up in the details of a single season. She re-
members her goals: Banners. Tradition. Win-
ning.

“Our goal is as strong as ever: We are de-
termined to hang a banner,” said Watts, back
in her awe-inspiring voice. ““That’s how tra-
dition starts, you know. You’ ve got to put one
in the rafters, and you can hang another.”

And because Annette Watts said it, you bet-
ter believe it.

GREENSBORO

