THE DAVIDSONIAN:

Admission, from page 1
in a position to succeed, Vagt said.

“At the end of the day... you do not have a
situation where men are at the bottom of the
GPA totem pole...if that were the case, [the
system] would be unfair.”

Vagt and Ortmayer both agreed that
Davidson’s tradition as a historically male
school was a driving force behind creating this
requirement.

Vagt also offered that a gender-balanced
school made Davidson attractive to both male
and female applicants.

Ortmayer said that given the school’s other
priorities, including Division I athletics, the
policy made sense.

Preserving Davidson’s ‘Southern Char-
acter’?

In recent years, the number of Davidson
students hailing from North Carolina has var-
ied between fifteen and nineteen percent in each
class.

Half or just under half of students come from
the South.

Vagt and Cable denied that there were quo-
tas for these regions and said that there are more
students who apply the closer they are to
Davidson.

“I don’t feel it’s important to maintain
[Davidson’s] southern character,” Vagt said.
“We are a national institution and proud to be
a national institution.”

At the same time, Vagt added, “We are lo-
cated in this region... we have an obligation to
this region.”

Davidson meets that obligation in two ways:
by educating people from the region, and also
by providing the community with educated
graduates from across the nation and world who
will settle in the area after they have gradu-
ated.

Many Davidson graduates from other re-
gions will stay in the Charlotte region or the
South as well, Vagt said.

_ News

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11,2004 5

Film Club encourages student productions

By AMANDA STEPHENS
Senior Staff Writer

In an effort to expand the college’s artistic

~ venue, Ben Whitman ’05 and Alex Trzebucki
’04 have started Davidson’s first filmmaking -

club.

This organization aims to give students in-
terested in cinematography a chance to pro-
duce their own films and to experiment with a
camera.

Film Club is open to all students, regardless
of their prior experience.

Wednesday of last week, Film Club held their
first meeting during which student film pro-
posals were discussed along with the goals and
aspirations for the semester.

According to Trzebucki, the club’s primary
goal for this semester is to get people making
films.

Whether students want to be behind the cam-
era or simply act in a production, Trzebucki
encourages experimentation with the camera,
calling filmmaking a largely hands-on type of
art. Trzebucki also mentioned the possibility
of giving film tutorials since most students do
not have film experience.

By the end of the semester, Trzebucki and
Whitman hope to have a film festival in which
students can show their independent produc-
tions.

Currently Davidson College has no film
major and offers very few classes in filmmak-
ing. A film concentration has been added re-
cently to fill this demand.

Although the college owns a limited amount
of film equipment, it is reserved for academic
uses, making it difficult for students to access
it outside of the classroom.

For Trzebucki, Davidson’s lack of film-pro-
duction opportunities has been frustrating.

“Other highly-rated schools have film pro-
grams. I think it’s a shame that Davidson

doesn’t take film more seriously as an academic
pursuit,” Trezbucki said.

Sharing a similar sentiment, Whitman said,
“When I first came to Davidson and told people
that I was interested in film, the response that
I got was pretty much ‘well why did you come
to Davidson?’ With the exception of a few
classes, film production on campus seemed
pretty much non-existent. So I basically just
decided to do it on my own with the help of
friends and faculty.”

Despite the absence of a film department at
Davidson, both the club’s founders have shown
themselves to have a great interest and talent
for filmmaking.

In 2001, Whitman founded Manwhit Enter-
tainment and has worked for ““VH1’s Pop-Up

Nick Crocker ’04 and Ben Whitman ’05, founder of Davidson’s first

Video” and director/producer Joel Gallen.

He has already produced his first film, ‘Gen-
eration Tab‘) under DC Productions. Trzebucki
has also brought film talent to Davidson, hav-
ing attended a summer program at the New York
Film Academy.

By starting the filmmaking club, both
Trzebucki and Whitman hope to establish film
as a permanentart form at Davidson. Whitman
hopes that student interest in the club will dem-
onstrate to the administration the need for in-
creased attention to film studies.

He said,’ “Ideally, the club will generate some
interest on campus and get more people
involved...and ultimately make the school
realize that sooner or later film is an inevitabil-

ity.”

Photo by Ben Whitman

filmmaking club shoot the critically-acclaimed “Generation Tab.”

February 23

February 27
March 9

March 16
March 16
March 22
March 23
March 26
March 31
April 7

Residence Life Office LOTTERY

IMPORTANT DATES YOU SHOULD KNOW

5 Person apartment Selection - 6:00 PM Sprinkle Room

Lottery numbers available on line at
http://www.davidson.edu/administrative/residencelife/lottery/index.html

Deadline for Special Housing Applications

Mandatory meeting for Off-Campus Permission - 7:30 PM Sprinkle room
(Applications will be available)

5 person apartment applications due by 12 PM at RLO

4 person Apartments applications due by 12 PM at RLO

4 person Apartment Selection - 6:00 PM 900 Room
Off-campus applications due by 12 PM at RLO

Single & Triple Room Selections - 6:00 PM Chambers Gallery
Doubles & Suites Lottery Night - 6:00-??? Chambers Gallery

Any Questions ???
‘Residence Life Office

894-2188

