2 ‘THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2004

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www-sushiatthelake.com

bse chi Grill Specs

Mo), on with Schoo} j=!
day and TUCS* 4 price ve) 0
Secon pi ro Le ef

1 Domgms Cole e Night!
th eer woe Nigh

10Z Off with School IP
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

Schoo! o

Davidson ROTC chapter

hosts Guest PT Program

By Carey BAXTER

Staff Writer

The Davidson chapter of the Reserve Offic-
ers Training Corps (ROTC) hosted a Guest
Physical Training (PT) Program open to all
students and faculty members early on Wednes-
day, October 20 .

President Bobby Vagt was among the ap-
proximately 70 guests who got up early and
trudged to the cross country course to experi-
ence just a morsel of the intense training that
the 25 members of the ROTC must endure three
times each week, in addition to weekly leader-
ship classes and field training exercises (FTX)
one weekend each semester.

This year’s three-day FTX was held in Sep-
tember at Camp Butner, North Carolina.

“Cadets train on marksmanship, leadership
skills, rappelling, and obstacle courses amongst
other things,” said Major Patrick Leslie of the
Special Forces and Assistant Professor of Mili-
tary Science at Davidson. “It is usually. very
physically demanding.”

This week marks the beginning of a three-
week Squad Training Exercise (STX), which
“represents a new phase in training the juniors
and underclassmen,” said ROTC member Chris
Hallett ’0S.

STX basically involves “playing war on the
cross-country trails,” he said.

“Junior cadets are appointed as a squad leader
in charge of 10 other cadets and are given a
tactical mission to accomplish. They are evalu-
ated on their ability to plan, lead and execute
under a strict time constraint,” said Leslie.

Upon graduation, the nine current senior
ROTC members, the largest class yet from
Davidson, will not only receive a degree from
Davidson, but they will also receive the com-
mission of second lieutenant, the same rank that
graduates of the U.S. Military Academy at West
Point achieve upon graduation.

It is hard to emphasize enough “the signifi-
cance of this achievement,” said Francois
Trappey ’05.

Officers, unlike ordinary enlisted soldiers,
must be able “to motivate 30 strangers into
taking bullets for their country,” he said.

Trappey has chosen to specialize in the Air
Force division of the ROTC Program. He com-
mutes to the University of North Carolina in
Charlotte for his training.

This past summer Trappey reported to
Tyndall Air Force Base in Panama City, Florida
for a four-week boot camp.

“The entire point,” he said, “was to evaluate
my composure and ability to lead in stressful
situations while being yelled at, deprived of
sleep, physically trained into the ground.”

The training at Davidson allows ROTC
members to “get a feel for the military,” said
Hallett.

First-year students and sophomores act as
soldiers while juniors and seniors assume the
position of officers and lead the younger stu-
dents through simulated real-life combat situ-
ations.

This allows officers-in-training to get a feel

for how the soldiers they; will be leading feel
under the direction of officers.

During their four years at Davidson, ROTC
members complete basic. officer training.

Three to six months after graduation, they
are able to specialize in-fields such as military
intelligence, field artillery, aviation, armored
vehicles, or the signal corps (radio and satel-
lite).

Leslie’s leadership development classes,
which address management skills and how to
give soldiers broad, general directions, are held
once or twice each week and prepare ROTC
members for the very important Leadership
Development Assessment Course (LDAC) that
is held in Washington D.C. after their junior
year.

The LDAC accounts for 25 percent of ROTC
members’ final rank of merit , which determines
the flexibility of their future working schedule
with the U.S. Army.

The other 75 percent of the rank is deter-
mined by grade point average (50 percent) and
the grade given by the commanding officer that
evaluates the potential of each officer-in-train-
ing to become a leader (25 percent).

The Army allows officers in the top 10 per-
cent of the merit rank, which will be posted in
December for seniors, to choose his orher place
in the army or whether or not he or she wishes
to defer service for a few years.

The Army then satisfies its own needs by
assigning the remaining officers to jobs that
need filling.

Right now there is a shortage of military
intelligence officers.

Many Davidson ROTC members are on a
scholarship from the Army and are thus obli-
gated to serve the Army for four years follow-

‘ing graduation.

The Army often grants educational delay to
officers who wish to continue their education
before beginning military service.

This can be to the Army’s benefit, as in
Hallett’s case.

Hallett plans to spend two years at Hebrew
University in Jerusalem studying Islamic and
Middle Eastern Studies before serving as an
officer.

eSy photo

Members of the Davidson ROTC.

Campus Police Blotte

10/26 Little Library

Property Theft

_ Unknown person(s) stole a $20 bill from a wallet which had been left unsecured in their
handbag at the Little Library. Nothing else was taken.

10/28

Property Theft

now person(s) stole $120 from a wallet between 10:30 p.m. on October 21 and 5 2 m.
on October 28.

-

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

