THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Women’s Basketball runs with No. 6 Duke

STAFF REPORT

Davidson women’s basketball started the
season off with a bang, opening with an exhi-
bition victory over Lander and giving pre-
season No. 6. Duke a hard-fought game be-
fore falling 89-69.

Their first action of the season was an ex-
hibition against Lander, who enters the sea-
son ranked 18th in Division II. In what will
hopefully to be a continuing trend, several
Wildcats scored big points at crucial moments
in the game. Davidson went on a 15-5 scor-
ing run midway through the first half of play
to gain a comfortable 30-14 lead that put con-
trol of the game in Wildcats’ hands.

Lander fought back to make it a competi-
tive 39-30 game at the half, but four quick
points by Janell Crayton ’05 gave the Wild-
cats a solid 17-point cushion with under ten
minutes to play to essentially put the game
out of reach.

Crayton, Emily Callahan ’05, and Cara
Reed ’08 all scored in the double digits, with
Reed scoring a game-high 14 points in the first
appearance of her collegiate career. Contribu-
tions were made all around, as nine players
scored and eleven played. Coach Annette
Watts admitted that depth is a big goal for this
team,“Our plan is to have five scoring in
double figures.”

Shortly after such a confidence booster of a
first game, Davidson traveled to Cameron In-
door Stadium to play Duke, a pérennial na-
tional title contender and this year’s No. 2
ranked squad in the Atlantic Coast Conference.
It was an intimidating start to the Wildcats’
2004-05 season, especially for a young team

entering one of the rowdiest venues in the °

nation, but the Wildcats stormed into Duke
and played the Blue Devils as hard as pos-
sible all game.

“We prepared for Duke the same way we

prepared for Lancer, the
same way we prepare for any /
game. We had a plan, and we
stuck to it,” stated Watts.
Davidson actually opened
up a quick 4-0 lead on
Reed’s first collegiate points,
but Duke pulled ahead and
held a nine point lead at the
half.

The Blue Devils opened
up a 17-point lead with over
ten minutes to play, Duke
was not able to pull away
from the ’Cats all night. With
four minutes to go, Davidson
was still down by only 11
points.

Most of Davidson’s points
came from Reed, who
scored a game-high 25
points, and Katie Hamilton
°07, who put up 21 points for
the Wildcats, but the Wild-
cats shot at just a 37 percent
mark for the game. Davidson
also struggled with turn-
overs, as the Wildcats
coughed the ball up 23 times,
including 9 turnovers by
Hamilton.

Still, the players have
learned a lot about themselves and the team
during the past two games. “We
showed everyone that we could hang with the
No. 6 team in the nation...We’re going sur-
prise some people this year,” said co-captain
Emily Callahan.

After two games, the Wildcats look ready
to take on anyone, but Watts admits that there
are always things that can be improved
throughout the season.

She says that she is always trying to find

Club Sports Spotlight...

“New Club Baseball team joins
NCBA for first spring season

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

Spring 2005 will be mark the inaugural sea-
son for the brand new Davidson baseball club.
The team was granted $1400 by the ATC ina
recent meeting to pay for the club’s expenses.
This concession is only a portion of what will
be needed by the team to provide for uniforms,
playing facilities, and membership in the Na-
tional Club Baseball Association.

Formed in 2000, the NBCA had its first sea-
son in 2001 with 34 teams competing. It is
the first ever governing body for club base-
ball in the United States and the only to have
a national title. Dues for the NCBA are $1500
for the initial year and $1000 each following
year.

Davidson will play in the Carolina West
Conference, of which Clemson, Wake Forest,
UNCC, and Furman are also members. Sea-
son play includes three games against each of
the conference opponents, culminating in a
chance to play in the organization’s World
Series.

“We don’t have to be in the NCBA to have
a club team here at Davidson,” said founder
Roland Foss ’05, “But scheduling enough
games would have been difficult. If we tried
to independently contact teams [from other
colleges] we wouldn’t have as many games
because they’d be busy playing important
NCBA competitors.” Most colleges and uni-
versities that carry club baseball and are within
traveling distance of Davidson are members
of the student-run association.

“Belonging to the NCBA [will] make our

team much more legitimate. [We’ll] be pay-
ing a fee for membership, and [we’ll] be get-
ting more visibility. Having structure and fol-
lowing the rules [of the NCBA] gets us in the
door,” said Foss.

There are 77 teams from all over the coun-
try included in the association, and an addi-
tional nine are slated to play next season.

The Davidson players, of which a majority
are freshman and sophomores, have been prac-

. ticing three times a week at the Lake Norman

High School in Mooresville and the Hopewell
High School in Huntersville, which was rated
the 9th best high school baseball stadium in
the state of North Carolina. Because of the
lack of funds, the men have had to supply their
own equipment and pay for renting fields.

Interest has not diminished, however, and
the players are determined to have a solid first
season. Said Foss, ““When I brought up the idea
of playing in the NCBA, the guys were all
very enthusiastic.” The first installment of
membership fees in the association has already
been paid with hopes that the college will
eventually reimburse the team.

The idea for a baseball club was initially
introduced by Foss this fall. “I started think-
ing about it this summer...Then I put up a
booth at the activities fair and got a long list
of names. A lot of guys were surprised that
there was not already a club baseball team
here,” he said. Along with the 29 men signed
up to play now, eleven more have signed up
to play in the spring.

The constitution for the club was ratified
last week and elections for officials will be
held soon.

Emily Callahan ’05 and the ’Cats were able to
show that they can compete with top teams.

*

the right combination on the court, and the
team can’t hesitate to try new things. It is still
key for this team to build confidence, and to

- gel as a whole to make the long run to the

Southern Conference Tournament in March.

The Wildcats next play in the C & L/Lancer
Invitational Nov. 19 and 20.

“The upcoming tournament will be a good
test for us to see how we are progressing and
to see how we fair against some different
styles of play” said co-captain Hamilton.

from Demuro, page 12

Bonds breaking the record. Home runs are
commonplace nowadays; almost too com-
monplace. Ballparks are smaller, and cater to
power hitters, baseballs are wound tighter (and
thus carry better), strike zones are smaller
(which is conducive to hitters), pitcher
mounds’ are smaller (which keeps a ball from
sinking more), and baseball’s wood bats are
better built to have more ‘pop’ on the ball.

Baseball is a different game than it was even
thirty years ago. Thus, one can not look at
Bonds’ record and compare it completely to
Aaron’s; the MLB of today markets power
hitters and home runs, thinking that baseball
fans do not wish to see pitcher’s duels.

The average pitcher’s earned run average
has skyrocketed from 20 years ago, and teams
carry more pitchers, as starters do not go as
deep into games. The extra pitchers carried
by a team are pitchers who, 20 years ago,
would have been playing minor league base-
ball, and these extra relievers are not as tal-
ented as one would expect.

There are also more teams in baseball, 30,
than ever before. With more teams all carry-
ing more pitchers, the talent pool is spread
thin, and the overall quality of pitching de-
creases dramatically.

Unfortunately, the MLB will not change its
course here; baseball is arguably now more
popular than ever. The marketing of power
hitters and high-scoring affairs have found
popularity among fans that would not have
generally paid attention to the game closely.

This is, I believe, unfortunate for baseball
in the long run. Bud. Selig and the game’s
heads have gone on too long sitting on their
laurels while steroid controversy swirls, and
the games becomes completely catered to hit-
ters and home runs.

For baseball to “return to form,” there need
to be major changes that take away advantages
from hitters, and return the game to a fair play-
ing field between pitcher and batter.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004

15

from Football, page 16

following a short punt, the Hoyas led a quick
scoring drive resulting in a field goal to give
them the early lead they would not relinquish.

Following more Davidson offensive
struggles the Hoyas launched a touchdown
drive with 1:37 remaining in the first quarter,
making the score 10-0.

The ’Cats offense struggled throughout the
first half, hurt by several penalties and incon-
sistent play. The "Cats launched one final drive
in the first half into Hoya territory, but Jones
threw his second interception of the afternoon
and put an end to the first half scoring chances.

Ricky Childers 06 gave Davidson a scor-
ing opportunity early in the second half when
he picked off a pass at the 50-yard line, but
the offense was again unable to capitalize and
was forced to punt the ball away yet again.

The third quarter went scoreless, leaving Ane
‘Cats down 10-0 entering the fourth wth
Both teams exchanged punts to begin the qué
ter, but Georgetown caught a break when
Jones threw his third interception of the game,
which the Hoyas returned to the Davidson 19.

Following a short drive Georgetown capi-
talized on their field position and scored a
touchdown, making the score 17-0 and put-
ting the game essentially out of reach.

With Jones struggling, Damion White’’05
entered the game and led a drive to the
Georgetown 32-yard line, but facing a 4th and
6, the offense failed to convert. The Hoyas
immediately took advantage, launching a
quick scoring drive to make the score 23-0
with just over five minutes remaining. -

For the final drive of the game, freshman
quarterback Matt McGreevy °08 entered the
game and led the ’Cats down the field rap-
idly, getting to the Georgetown 28-vard line
before throwing an interception on the last
play of the game.

Guard Derrick Thompson’07 said of the
game, “Defensively we played a good game.
We were just ineffective on offense, which is
disappointing because that has been the story
of the season. We just couldn’t put together a
complete game on both sides of the ball.”

John Leverett ended the game with 83 yards
rushing, setting the new career rushing record
at 3,165 yards. Ryan Hubbard °08 also man-
aged a good game, gaining 65 yards receiv-
ing on seven catches, both career highs for
the freshman.

On defense Kevin Saunders ’05 led the team
in tackles with nine, Childers contributed eight
tackles and an interception, and Dete recorded
seven tackles, a forced fumble, two deflected
passes and a sack. Frankie Jones ’05 recorded
a blocked field goal in the second quarter, as
well as six tackles.

LEARN
ONE OF 21
LANGUAGES

xk KKK OK

As a Soldier at the Defense
Language Institute in Monterey,
California, you'll learn one of 21
languages. And you don’t need to
speak a foreign language to qualify.

>> Call Sgt. 1st Class Boyce at 563-0560
to find out about college loan :
repayment and more Army benefits.

*
cx

rmy.com ©2001. Paid for
soarmy.ce . (AN ARMY OF ONE

by the U.S. Army. All rights reserved.

