16

o THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 18, 2004

By Erin DELK
‘ Senior Staff Writer

The lacrosse team prefers not to talk about last season.’ Their
final record of 1-15, good for last in their conference (the
American Lacrosse Conference) at 0-6, is now a distant
memory. The focus is on a new season, with a fresh attitude
helped by the addition of new assistant coach Heather Bliss
and a modified schedule.

Davidson was ranked last year with a strength of schedule
in the top ten of all Division I teams. Six of the eight teams in
the ALC, one of the most competitive conferences in the divi-

sion, rank in the top twenty in preseason polls. Schedule ad- *

justments have been made, though, and the ’Cats will play
teams on a more common ground.

This will be important for building confidence and slowly
beginning to compete successfully in their conference and
beyond. The ’Cats are not playing powerhouses such as UNC
and Duke this year; instead, such schools as Fairfield and Sa-
cred Heart were added to this season’s schedule. This does
not change Davidson’s impressive series of opponents, how-
ever, as the team’s schedule is ranked 18th in “Strength of
Schedule” by laxpower.com (2/17/04). This challenging out-
look does not faze the ’Cats; the upset against VA Tech last
year illustrated their ability to be competitive and even defeat
top-ranked teams.

Last Friday, the ’Cats played the Japanese National Team
in a preseason scrimmage. Complications such as playing by
modified international rules with hard boundaries, no restrain-
ing line, and twenty minute running quarters made a difficult

Three Wildcat defenders and goalie Leslie Smith 06 converge on a Japanese Team attacker.

match-up even harder. It was an opportunity to see what needed
to be worked on and what proved effective for a new compo-
sition of players.

“We made some adjustments between periods and played
better as the game went along. We saw flashes of good play
that just need to be present more consistently. We played this
exhibition against a national team to show us what we need to
do to get better,” said Schwartz.

The ’Cats are a young team, composed of eight freshmen,
six sophomores, five juniors, and two seniors. They return

seven starters, with five spots waiting to be filled, some by
freshmen. Senior captains Becca Nussbaum and Lauren Wil-
liams, as well as captain Millie McKeachie ’05, provide di-
rect leadership for the team, but it has become the job of all
upperclassmen to lead by example.

This team, with its small size and strong schedule, can’t
afford to mess around. Intense fall and winter workouts and
tournaments have helped them prepare for this season. “The

see Lacrosse, page 13

Cats push winning Streak to five with victory over Eagles

Kosmalski ’05 has averaged 14.2 points and
11.2 rebounds during the ’Cats’ win streak

i

H E B 0

By WiLson McCrory
Senior Staff Writer

After a brutal early season schedule that included games
against North Carolina, Duke, Texas Tech, and Seton Hall,
among others, as well as a rocky start to Southern Conference
play, many observers wrote off the 2004 edition of the Wild-
cats. Before Davidson’s road win against The Citadel two
weeks ago, the ’Cats were an impressive 9-0 at home but had
yet to notch a road win on the season despite close calls at
Georgia Southern, ETSU, College of Charleston, and Chatta-
nooga.

But after a five-game winning streak that has included vic-
tories over SoCon powers Charleston and Georgia Southern,
as well as two road wins against The Citadel and Furman,
Davidson has finally begun to show the benefits that head
coach Bob McKillop promised would come from their tough
early-season schedule:

“We have really learned to take what the opposition gives
us. The team is really learning to read the defenses well, and
the combination of our inside-outside play has given us a much
more balanced offense. Plus, when you are having eight to
ten fewer turnovers a game, there are that many more oppor-
tunities to score, and you limit the opponent’s transition op-
portunities.”

On Tuesday against Furman, Davidson looked to eclipse
the .500 mark for the first time this season, and the ’Cats used
a barrage of long-balls to put the game out of reach quickly.
Davidson jumped out to an early 18-5 lead on the Paladins, as
the ’Cats nailed six of their first eight three-point attempts on
the evening. Davidson would never look back in the contest,
maintaining a comfortable margin throughout before finally
icing the game in the final minutes on the charity stripe.

On Saturday, Davidson returned home to Belk Arena intent
on avenging an earlier loss to Georgia Southern and preserv-

dle OM

ing their 10-game win streak at home. Davidson started out
sluggish in the Valentine’s match-up, connecting on only 40
percent of its field goals in the first half to take a five-point
deficit into the break.

After the half, however, Davidson quickly retook the lead
from the Eagles, extending the margin to as much as eight
points with 12:55 to play. The Eagles brought the game back
to within two at 55-53, but the Wildcats managed to pull away
in the final ten minutes on eight of 10 shooting from the floor
and a 15-20 mark from the free throw line.

For the game, Brendan Winters ’06 yet again led all scorers
with 23, extending his double-digit scoring streak to 23 games.
Logan Kosmalski ’05 fell one rebound shy of another double-
double with 18 points and 9 boards, while Matt McKillop ’06
chipped in 12.

While Davidson shot a lofty 58 percent from the floor in the
second half, an effort McKillop deemed “encouraging by show-
ing that we can come back against a good team, especially

after having lost to them earlier in the year,” it was the ’Cats’

ability to get to the line and convert their free throws that iced
the victory in Belk.

The Wildcats made 24 of 32 free throw attempts, while the
Eagles got to the line only 19 times on the afternoon. McKillop
credits that decisive advantage to “constantly being in attack
mode. When you have three point guards [in McKillop, Terrell
Ivory ’04, and Kenny Grant ’06], you can constantly push the
ball in transition and attack the glass. We have really stressed
to our team the importance of attacking the basket, as easy
baskets and free throws are results of that mentality.”

Tonight in Belk Arena, Davidson will look to avenge an-
other earlier loss to the Wofford Terriers and extend the team’s
season-high five-game winning streak. After that, the ’Cats ©
will finish off the regular season at Appalachian State on the
24th and at home versus Furman on the 28th before heading
off to Charleston for the 2004 Southern Conference tourna-
ment.

Player of of the Week

Patrick Coman ‘06

Wrestling
Hometown: Tulsa, OK

Major: Undecided
This past weekend, the ’Cats gained an impressive win over Ameri-
can University, which began with a 15-3 major decision by Coman.
Although the team failed to win their second match of the day, Coman
did his part again, taking down Gardner-Webb wrestler John Neal 7-6.
In the process, Coman has exteneded his winning streak to five matches.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Down 40-35 at the break this weekend against Georgia Southern, Davidson came out
with a vengence to start the second half. by

The ’Cats immediately scored four unawswered points to erase the Eagle lead. A few
minutes later, they would copy that run, this time capping it with a Matt McKillop ’06
three pointer to grab a six-point advantage, 50-44.

The real play came on defense though, with a tramendous block by Nick Booker ’05
that then led to another McKillop three-pointer to give Davidson an eight-point lead with
just under thriteen minutes to play in the game.
