4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Restructured

News

Red Bike

program returns to college

By Don WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The successful “Red Bike” program will
resume in the coming weeks.

The Red Bike program is run by Davidson
Outdoors (DO) and provides bicycles to
members of the college community for free
use on-campus. The program was started in
1999 by Rob McKeehan ’01 and has grown
from a fleet of six to 35, 16 of which are new
this year.

Last year, in an effort to foster communal
ownership of the bikes, Caroline Hartridge
’05 came up with the idea of giving each first
year residence hall a bicycle to name, decorate
and monitor. This procedure will be repeated
this year after no vandalisms were recorded
with the Class of 2007.

“T do think it is fair to say that the bicycles
faired very well last year with significantly
reduced vandalism than in previous years,”
said Assistant Director of Davidson Outdoors
Mike Goode.

“We had significant vandalism early on,”
said Director of DO Ed Daugherty, who has
overseen the Red Bike program since its
inception. “Most of those first dozen bikes
were destroyed or stolen in the space of a
semester.”

Peninsula China Bistro’
704 98 is -2299

“Each entrée a masterpiece...’
Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet’

Fine Wines @ Full Bar

Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere

Reservations Accepted
Carryout

FREE DELIVERY (min s20)

19906 N Cove Rd Comelius
Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

Each bicycle is numbered and features a
sign that reads, “Davidson College
Community Bicycle.” It explains that the bike
is available for any member of the college
community to ride and park. The bikes are not
to be parked off-campus.

“This program not only helps to protect
communal property, it provides first-year
students with the opportunity to change the
campus attitude towards the community
bikes,” said Hartridge. “The program
represents the Code of Responsibility, an
important aspect of our campus life, and I
really believe it is empowering to offer
students the chance to preserve this aspect of
our life at Davidson.”

Each first-year hall will have two or three
student Community Bike Representatives that
will receive the bicycles from DO, brief their
hallmates about the purpose of the program,
and check on the bikes monthly to make sure
they are on campus and in working order.

According to Daugherty, the bicycles will
appear around campus after the first-year halls
are oriented to,the program.

“DO, RLO and Dean Bray-Merrell have
helped to make this program occur,” said
Daugherty.’“‘It would have been impossible
to introduce this program without everyone’s
support.”

_ LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 1:30-3:00 © Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS _
Mon-Thurs 5:00-10;00
Fri & Sat 5:00-1 1:00 e Sun 5:00-10:00

Zogby, from page 1

Zogby went on to explain that the reason
Arab opinions of Americans are so low is not
because Arabs hate American freedom or
science or lifestyle.

“Bush doesn’t want to talk about [for-

eign policy], and Kerry doesn’t want to

talkabout it, which means that the people

of the Middle East suffer and the Ameri-

can people suffer because we're ina war

a ina region we don’t understand.”
--Dr. James Zogby

Rather, he explained that Arabs hate
American policies, and those policies have
actually put Americans in more danger than
they were before the invasion of Iraq.

“We have pursued policies that have placed
us more at risk,” he said.

In explaining the reasoning behind why our
policies have failed, Zogby pointed the blame
at not just the President, but also most members
of Congress. ;

He explained how politicians give “no sense
of history or context” to our foreign policy,
and that “there have been repeated instances
where policy has changed because of domestic
pressures.”

Zogby made sure to point to both
Republicans and Democrats in his criticisms,

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

: saying that every President from Jimmy Carter

to George W. Bush has given in to strong
domestic pressure to stop short the Middle
East peace process.

He went on to criticize both presidential
candidates saying that “Bush doesn’t want to
talk about it, and Kerry doesn’t want to talk
aboutit, which means the people of the Middle
East suffer and the American people suffer
because we’re in a war and in a region we
don’t understand.”

The solution to this problem, he said, lies
with the American people.

“We have to demand that our leadership
step up. Therefore we have to understand [the
region] first.”

Student reaction to Zogby’s talk was
generally positive.

“He was pretty mainstream I thought,” said
Ashish George ’07. “I expected him to be a
little more radical so I was surprised in that
respect.”

Other students agree.

Amy Killian ’08 said “It was refreshing for
him to say what be believed. He was clear and
I liked that he wasn’t too partisan.”

Yet some students felt that he could have
offered more specific details about exactly
what he wants done in the Middle East.

“T felt he is very intelligent and snows what
needs to be done,” said Chris Clunie ’06, “but
he didn’t articulate those ideas to my
satisfaction.”

: By Davip Crow :

Edi itor-in-Chief

Dr. Paul Krugman, een Beg
mist and New York Times op-ed columnist . : ani

will deliyer this year’s Wearn Lecture on
Wednesday evening, September 29 inthe -
Duke Family Performance Hall.

Dr. Krugman receivedhis Ph.D. from MIT
and has, taught there, at Yale University,
Stanford University.

Krugmanis now a professor of economics
and international affairs at Princeton
University's Woodrow Wilson School of Pub-

Gas sa tac oral to ey
economists under the age of 40.

oft thes more colons speakers to come to

Davidson i in recent years.
, Cais Burks wo Co-President of the

ni =“ change in this country and'we.
his firmly held beliefs about the failed
“record of the Bush Administration.”
_ Other students 5 were more skeptical of
Krugman’s qualifications. .
ae *06, Chairman of the Col-
lege Rept said “it’s always interest-
ing \ when facbic whe have never been in-
volved in policies claim to know what it’s
bit eee war or to cut a spend-

‘Since 2000, Krugman has written a bi-

