12 THE DavIDSONIAN

HOk yOu
SOOIGES fans...
BDROOKIE S FICKS

VETER

OF a

Wildcat t game or

peat soscitirw ously opipsan oe all
Southem Conference <Go tet how much the:
sila have impretedethey:diterve sexe
— re)

- Gutside the Den:

_ MLB Playoff Baseball
Red Sox ys. Yankees
Wednesday, October 20, 8:00, FOX

Game Seven, Enough said.

SPORTS

By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

To honor Pat Tillman, the former Arizona
Cardinals safety killed in action in Afghanistan
this past spring, the NFL graciously allowed
all teams to wear Tillman’s No. 40 decal on
their helmets during Week 2 of the 2004 sea-
son.

Don’t ask me why the NFL picked Week 2,
or just one week for that matter, to allow the
decals, but only the Cardinals will be allowed
to sport the sticker on the backs of their hel-
mets for the rest of the season.

That means that Tillman’s close friend and
former teammate at Arizona State and with the
Cardinals, current Denver Broncos quarterback
Jake Plummer, isn’t even allowed to honor the
fallen soldier with a tiny sticker for the remain-
der of the season.

Ina grave act of defiance, however, Plummer
went against the hallowed NFL uniform policy
in Week 5 and brought back the sticker against
the Carolina Panthers.

Like clockwork, the NFL let it be known that
Plummer would soon be receiving a fine of up
to $5,000 for the uniform violation, and would
continue to be fined if the sticker appeared for
future games.

Now, I don’t have a problem with the league
trying to remain consistent in its uniform code,
and would curse the day that they began to
allow players to serve as walking billboards
sold to the highest bidder. But the NFL’s ob--

Plummer really went over the
edge with the tiny No. 40 sticker

session with uniform compliance goes beyond
the call of duty.

In Major League Baseball, for example,
players may within reason write whatever they
choose on their hats, and teams routinely
change out sleeve decals to honor former play-
ers or events. When St. Louis Cardinal pitcher
Darryl Kile died at age 33 of heart failure two
years ago, the Cardinals quickly added a

“DK57” patch on their left sleeve to compli-

‘WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 20, 2004

ment a patch they were already wearing to
commemorate the death of longtime an-
nouncer Jack Buck. Larger versions of the
DK57 logo were also placed behind the plate
and on the right field wall at Busch Stadium.

But in the NFL, where even an untucked

"shirt of a pair of pants that doesn’t go past the

knees warrants a fine, a simple sticker was
too much to handle. As the NFL said in a state-
ment issued in respohse to Plummer, “We, too,
want to continue to keep Pat Tillman’s legacy
alive, but ... we have rules regarding personal

_ messages on uniforms that we needed to ap-

ply consistently.”

While the league’s obsession with fashion
seems a little childish, the NFL crossed the
line with Plummer.

Tillman represented what we should all as-
pire to; a man who selflessly gave of himself
instead of relying on someone else to repre-
sent our nation. When guys like Ricky Will-
iams are leaving the NFL to go smoke pot in
Europe, the NFL should do everything it can
to remember Tillman‘and make him the poster-
child for what the league wants to be.

But the NFL instead fell woefully short in
honoring Tillman. A small sticker for one week

see McCrory, page 13

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Columnist

I’m really not ready to write this. Not after
spending the last six hours on a roller coaster I
couldn’t get off. Indeed, game five of the ALCS
beat around my emotions the same way eight
year olds abuse pinatas.

But instead of tootsie rolls and a sugar high,
I got to watch the Red Sox beat the Yankees in
back-to-back extra inning playoff games on the
same day. Like Hartford —the Whale —beating
Vancouver in NHL94 for Sega (warning: ob-
scure MallRats reference), such an event hap-
pens once, maybe twice in a lifetime. —

Unless you haven’t left the library since
Homecoming, you know about the Red Sox and
Yankees series. Games four and five lasted a
combined 26 innings and close to 11 hours,
more closely resembling cricket than our na-
tional pastime.. .

But raise your hand if you’re like me and
actually watched those two marathons. Now

By AusTIN MERCADANTE ~
Senior Staff Writer

cy

Leverett has career day

Football star John Leverett ’05 was named
the Pioneer Football League’s Co-Offensive
Player of the Week on Oct. 11 for his perfor-
mance against Jacksonville. While Davidson
lost in the final minutes, 29-26, Leverett tied
his career best with 259 yards rushing on 30

» carries, Ironically, his 259-yard day left him

again just one yard shy of the single-game rush-
ing record, held by Ray Sinclair ’82. Leverett
has a chance to best Sinclair in a more presti-
gious mark, however, as Leverett’s 2,835 yards
rushing leave him just 250 yards of the former
Wildcat on the all-time rushing list.

Math overload

With the 14-10 victory over Morehead State

- athome on Saturday, Davidson kept alive hopes

for grabbing the PFL South title: However, to
have any chance at first place, Morehead State
must defeat Jacksonville in their next game, but
Morehead State must allow at least 25 to Jack-
sonville. If Davidson had defeated Jacksonville
at home over fall break, however, the Wildcats

give yourself a pat on the back because lis-
tening to Joe Buck and Tim McCarver call a
baseball game may be worse than those PE
101 lectures we’ve all suffered through.

Tough call: would you rather give CPR toa
doll that half your class has licked, or slowly
go insane while Buck and McCarver exhibit
about as much personality as the aforemen-
tioned doll? And someone please explain the
difference between Al Leiter and Scooter the
lunatic baseball. For me, they both perform
the same function: absolutely nothing.

But enough about the talking heads; let’s
focus on the series. We’ll skip the first three
games, of course, because I’m a Red Sox fan
and don’t want to talk about them—despite
recent rumors, this column is not a democ-
racy. However, I will say that no team in base-
ball history has come back to win a seven-
game series after trailing, 3-0. Same for the
NBA.

For solace, Red Sox Nation remembers the
last team to come back from 3-0 down, the

would have been in the driver’s seat to host
the PFL Championship game on Nov. 20.

Golf winding down fall season

The golf team finished eighth out of 19
teams in the recent Xavier Invitational, shoot-
ing a team score of 877 in the 54-hole tourna-
ment. Junior Christian Davis ’06 led the Wild-
cats with a 221 that tied for 39th overall. Jun-
ior Tim Dillon ’06 was close behind in 41st
place, and Joe Zimmerman ’05 was 49th.

Offense awakens

Women’s soccer“has been on a rampage
since it was noted here that they had been on
a scoring drought of sorts, as October brought
a scoring deluge for the Wildcats. The soccer
team has outscored opponents 17-1 in the past
four games, including 12 scores against the
Citadel. As a result, the team is now 6-1 in
conference play, a far cry from the 3-5-2 mark
last year that left the Wildcats out of
postseason play for the first time in team his-
tory.

Men avenge 2003 NCAA loss

After a disappointing stretch in late Septem-
ber and early October, men’s soccer looks to
be on the upswing again. A 4-2 win over Mer-

1975 New York Islanders, which really isn’t
all that bad. Consider: most hockey players
are ugly and have mullets—same goes for the
2004 edition of the Red Sox.

You have to understand, whereas most of
Boston drinks from a half-empty glass, mine
is always half-filled with champagne. So, as
dramatic as Big Papi’s game-ending donkey
was, it didn’t really surprise me. After all, there
are certain things in life that will never hap-
pen. No matter how many times you watch
Top Gun, Goose will never: live—that’s still
really difficult for me to grasp. Same idea here:
the Yankees sweeping the Sox at Fenway dur-
ing the playoffs is an impossibility. And
strangely, I felt confident about our chances
in game five, although I had no reason to.

Despite starting out 2004 a dominant 16-4,
Pedro Martinez has asserted his insanity of
late, and whereas once any start of his was a
guaranteed win, these days you sit around

see Connolly, page 13

cer and atl tie with Coastal Carolina indi-
cates that the team is ready to move on and
make the best of what’s left of the season. In
last year’s NCAA tournament, Coastal Caro-
lina defeated Davidson 3-0 in the first round,
ending Davidson’s short-lived appearance in
the tournament. Davidson has seven games in
the next 20 days that will decide the post sea-
son standings. If the Wildcats get hot, they
could ride a wave of victories to the Southern
Conference Tournament. However, as of now,
Davidson is 0-2 in league play.

Freshmen focus

While it is no surprise that women’s cross
country has been one of the Southern

‘Conference’s strongest teams this year, the

core group for the Wildcats has been some-
what unexpected, Davidson returned three
former All-conference performers this year,
as well as a roster full of upperclassmen ex-
perience, but a trio of freshmen has powered
the-Wildcats of late. Brittany Crawford ’08 is
challenging Kelly Fillnow ’05 for the top spot
on the team, and Brenna Burns ’08 and Annie
O’Donnell ’08 are also i in the top-five for the
Wildcats.
