By VirGINiA GREGORY AND ANDREW SHAPIRO
Restaurant Critics

Nuzzled in acorner of Mooresville - far from
Exit 36’s chain restaurants - the Prickly Pear
offers modern Mexican cuisine in an elegant
environment. Inspired by trips to Mexico and
experience in a locally operated restaurant
chain, owner Val Panizzut sought to create “an
upscale Mexican restaurant unlike any other
Mexican restaurant in the area.” Mexican food
classics like burritos and fajitas share the menu
with more innovative dishes that extend Mexi-
can themes toa new scope of ingredients. There
is something for all tastes, with a number of
fish, chicken, and beef entrees that are paired
with delicious side dishes like cilantro-pesto
mashed potatoes, flavored rice, and fried plan-
tain chips.

The year-old restaurant is housed in an at-
tractive restored church on Main Street. The
decor is elaborate down to hand-blown glasses
and wooden chargers at each place setting.
Rafters and a high ceiling give an open-air
feeling, but the warm red and orange walls and
the extensive woodwork create a sense of in-
timacy.

As the upscale decor suggests, prices that
are slightly higher than those found at other
eateries, but the portions and quality of the food
justify spending between nine and nineteen
dollars for an entree.

Intrigued by the restaurant’s concept of el-
evating Mexican cuisine toa more urbane level,
we recently visited the Prickly Pear. Our skep-
ticism began to wane when our server brought
a basket of warm homemade rolls to the table

ly

ear, a cozy atmosphere for g

accompanied by a delicious honey-chipotle
butter instead of the typical chips and salsa.

A look at the drink menu, replete with con-
temporary margaritas, cocktails, and a wide se-
lection of wines had us hooked. We tried the
Prickly Pear Margarita (the restaurant’s spe-
cialty) and the Prickly Passion, a sweet blend
of citron, guava, and prickly pear cactus. Both
were not only innovative but were also large
and smart combinations of subtle flavors.

Overall we felt that the creative endeavors
taken on by Chef Raul Ortegon were success-
ful in most cases, with only the occasional miss.
Drawing from his experience at the famous Las
Brisas hotel in Acapulco, Ortegon successfully
fuses European flare with traditional Mexican
flavors.

Both of the soups that we tried (a pureed black
bean and a roasted poblano pepper and fresh
corn chowder) were full of flavor and texture.
Like the rest of our meal, they came to the table
piping hot. The Ensalada de Berros, composed
of watercress, endive, pear, heart of palm, and
toasted almond slices, were also quite popular
among the table. Our crab cake appetizer

boasted large pieces of crab and finely diced.

vegetables and was perfectly browned and crisp
on the outside. An ancho pepper remoulade
accompanied it well and added zest.

For the main course, we tried the evening’s
special, a pecan encrusted striped bass with a
refried bean cake and sauteed broccolini, as
well as the Pollo ala Campana and the S-bana
de Res. The avocado salsa on top of the fish did
not visually complement the pecan crust; how-
ever, the bean cake and the broccolini were both
delicious. Our pan-seared chicken breasts had

wall

Campout at the Lake Campus:

Climbing in DS) afternoons and emrenkn gen

Get out this spring with Davidson Outdoors
Remaining Trips with Vacancies:
Whitewater Rafting: THIS WEEKEND Fri & Sat ($75)
Flyfishing--come hone the skills you
Into the Woods! (4/2-4/4) ($25)

Beginner Kayaking: (over Easter Break) 4/9-4/13 ($100)
Beginner Climbing: Never feel intimadated by the
again 4/17-4/18 ($25)

Beginner Mountain Biking: 4/24 ($15)

Stone Mountain Day Hike: de-stress before exams 5/1 ($5)

celles scheediped 4 wae “Sagaata camel
LAST Into the Woods Adventures!| mm,

Tues 3/30--food, gear, fun, all FREE
Triathalon at the Lake Campus

Sun 4/3--prizes for four-person teats
Doai't forget: Kayak rolling a the pook T rd

Quemion®? het: / /wwwt.davidson.edu/studerd lide ranvolved jda/do,. homeamp

learned from

climbing

a mouth-watering roasted red pepper
chardonnay sauce paired with a julienne of
squash, zucchini, and carrots, but it the con-
sistency of the Mexican risotto that accompa-
nied it left something to be desired. The beef
tenderloin was cooked toa perfect medium and
came witha variety of flavorful, woodsy mush-
rooms. With such skill at pairing unlikely in-
gredients, we could not help but wonder why
Chef Ortegon failed to offer significant entrees
for vegetarians.

While the appetizers and entrees were a sat-
isfying meal in and of themselves, we felt that
it was our duty as food critics to sample some
of the desserts. We selected the Pear Pocket
and a White Chocolate-Passion Fruit Mousse
from the half dozen offerings. Our mousse had
a delicious, creamy texture and a dynamic
combination of flavors. Though the pears were
cooked to perfection in a sweet sauce, the
“pocket” of phyllo dough seemed a bit doughy
on the inside-where it had not been completely
cooked. The palatable taste of each dessert was
complimented by its creative presentation.

Service was attentive and professional in
most cases, although we were somewhat un-
impressed when our plates were removed be-
fore the table was finished. The persistent bus
boy circled our table at least five times with
the water pitcher inquiring”“‘mas agua?” even
when our glasses were clearly over halfway
full.

Itis important to note that the specialty dishes
are only available at dinner, but the lunch menu
boasts numerous classics with a twist like
Oaxacan cheese dip with shitake mushrooms
af very reasonable prices (entrees range from
about six to eight dollars).

Owner Val Panizzut explained to us that his
overarching theme is to “wow” his customers
with each meal, and it is safe to say that this
upscale Mexican eatery’s sophistication
“wowed” us both, carrying us a world away
from the nearby land of strip malls. If you seek
savvy, tastefully presented food from south of
the border at a good value, the Prickly Pear
merits a visit.

The Prickly Pear is open seven days a week
with live jazz by Robert Fernandez beginning
at 7:00PM on Saturday nights to enhance the
dining experience. Reservations are almost
essential on the weekend, and both the dinner
and lunch menus are due to change next month.

The Prickly Pear

761 N. Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115
T (704) 799-0875

F (704) 799-1729

Restaurant Report Card

B+
\tmosphere
Service:
Value: A-

Food:
> B+

I>
I+

IVING

Mooresville’s Prickly Pear: More than
plain Burritos, tacos, and enchiladas

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Marcu 24, 2004

Brendan Wittstruck’s S Exploding’

Machines of love

By Liz BILLET
Senior Staff Writer

When a new show is being installed, the
gallery doors are shut and covered in brown
paper, through which one can often see an in-
explicable blackness, as if, emptied of art, the
galleries just disappear. These galleries are
almost always stocked with neatly arranged
‘objects’, a candy store of bright colors and
shiny mediums.

The Day of Blackness is Actually a nice pal-
ette cleanser between gallery shows, particu-
larly at this time of “when senior studio
majors put on their individual shows, and new
works are on a weekly display.

Student shows are the goldmine of Davidson
Art. They’re constantly changing, so there’s
always something new to catch our short-lived
attention span. One may know the artist per-
sonally, which always makes his or her work
more interesting. But most important, every
show has an opening reception that provides
free food to anyone who is hungry. This food
often includes cheese cubes, imported crack-
ers and even Oreos. Curious?

You can partake of such bounty tomorrow
night in the VAC for the opening of Brendan
Wittstruck’s senior show. However, one may
be distracted from cheese consumption by thase
gorgeous paintings.

Wittstruck works primarily in oils.
Tomorrow’s show will present Wittstruck’s
play with the abstraction of the human figure.
In fact, he says, “It is almost like playing with
the paint, although the ‘play’ is laced with not
alittle bit of frenetic twenty-something Expres-
sionism.” His preferred artists touch on this
frenetic note: Egon Scheile, Max Beckmann,
Lucian Freud, Francis Bacon and Jenny Saville.

Wittstruck’s work can’t be too impetuous.
After all, he works in oil, which dries very slow
and thus, can’t be painted at top speeds. During
the past four years, he has learned that the paint
he places on the canvas is not just a means to an
end, each stroke is as important as the final
painting—much like a musical composition is
nothing without each of its notes.

Wittstruck was guided by the pointed and
famous modernist adage offered to him by pro-
fessor Herb Jackson. “Herb once told me ‘When
someone listens to a piece of music they don’t
ask what it is or what it is supposed to be. So
why then must people insist on seeing some-
thing in a piece of art besides the art itself?’ It’s
a good question.”

He also admits the risk inherent to making
something “‘pretty”— that is, who gets to de-
fine what aesthetics are good aesthetics? But
he is not afraid to proclaim his goal of creating
abeautiful painting, with the hope that the view-

ers of his art will be eager to be engaged and

“infinitely involved” in examining his work.
You will have to go and see the show for your-
self to decide if his work is worth a good look,
and not just a glance. But, while no art should
be taken in a gulp, I would recommend to all
Mr. Wittstruck’s show as something to be in-
finitely savored.
