nee ‘THe Davipsonian

By ADAM Martin
Senior Staff Writer

Lifelong Charlotte civic and business leader
John Montgomery Belk ’43, chairman and
CEO of Belk, Inc., will retire this summer after
50 years in the family business.

“This is a perfect time for me to retire,” Belk,
who turns 84 this month, said. “I’m in good
health. The company is stronger today than ever
before.”

This economics major has helped turn the
Charlotte-based retail store his father, William
Henry Belk, started in 1888 into the nation’s
largest privately owned department store com-
pany, with 225 stores in 14 Southeastern and
Mid-Atlantic states.

The Belk family name routinely falls out of
the mouths of Davidson students. Whether try-
ing to find a first-year’s dorm room or a Studio
Art class, one may find themselves invoking
this Davidson legacy.

J ohn M. Belk to retire a t

In 2000, John Belk became the largest indi-
vidual donor in Davidson College history with
his $28-million commitment. This commit-
ment will add to the John Montgomery Belk
Scholarship, a merit-based program for aca-

demically talented student leaders, first estab-
_ lished by Belk in1994.

In terms of benefits to the institution, Belk’s

contribution is comparable to Maxwell Cham-_

bers’ $250,000 gift in 1855 and James B. Duke’s

decision to include Davidson in his 1924 in-

denture creating the Duke Endowment.
Davidson’s largest dormitory for first-years

bears the name of John’s father and mother,

William Henry and Mary Pauline Belk. Will-
iam servedas Trustee of Davidson College ftom
1929 until his death in 1952.

The Belks sent all five of their sons to
Davidson College: W. Henry Belk, Jr.’38, John
M. Belk ’43, Henderson Belk ’45, Irwin Belk
45, and Thomas M. Belk ’46.

Belk’s record in the world of national busi-

John M. Belk and his wife gather with Davidson’s Belk Scholars.

ness as well as state and local service testifies °
to the busy, achievement- and service-oriented
life that typifies Davidson students.

“If anyone deserves a chance
to slow down, [Belk] deserves
it. But he won’t slow one.
He was not born to be idle.

--President Bobby Vagt

Starting in 1969, Belk became mayor of
Charlotte for two four-year terms. He was cred-
ited with assisting the passage of a$55 million
dirport bond issue in 1978, setting the stage for
the growthof Charlotte/Douglas International
Airport.

Belk is a member of the board of directors of
PMC, Inc., a director emeritus of Wachovia
Corporation, and a former director of Quan-
tum Chemical Corporation, Texas Industries,
Inc., Lowe’s Companies; Inc., and Coca-Cola
Bottling Co. Consolidated, Inc.

Belk is also a member-and former president
of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, along-
time member and former president of the Pres-
byterian Hospital Foundation, and a member
and former director of the Charlotte World
Affairs Council.

Due tohis many accomplishments, Belk was

named a laureate of the 2000 North Carolina -

Business Hall of Fame.

Thomas M. “Tim” Belk Jr., John Belk’s suc-
cessor and nephew, will become chairman and
CEO of Belk, Inc., effective May 26, 2004.

The Katherine and Tom Belk Visual Arts
Center bears the name of Tim Belk’s late fa-
ther and mother, who both served on the
Davidson Board of Trustees during the 1970s

_ WEDNESDAY, Bibs 17, 2004 —

r 50 years in business

and 1980s.
John M. Belk and Katie Belk Morris, Tim

Belk’s sister, currently serve on the Board of

Trustees. Katie Belk is Director of the
Katherine and Thomas-M. Belk Foundation,
also named for and éstablished by her parents.

The Belk Foundation, kstablished in 1928
by Belk Inc; is one of the other major founda-
tions created by the Belk family. Under the
direction of Chairnian John M. Belk, the foun-
dation contributed 1 million dollars to the Baker
Sports Complex and named the 5,743-seat
basketball arena.

While Belk’s accomplishments. merit a re-
tirement, said President Bobby Vagt, the city
fo Charlotte will be losing a true civic leader.

“If anyone deserves an opportunity to slow
down, he [John Belk] deserves it,” Vagt ’69
said.’““But he won’t slow down. He was not
born to be idle.”

John Montqomery Belk

t

required) to Khoury

avison t

The Office of Admission and Financial Aid is hiring current
students for the summer!

Are you considering staying around Davidson this summer?
Do you want to help shape the future of David@n or learn more
about admissions?
Consider working as a summer touge

Ss ‘haeey i a )

Submit a resume and two references (no letters
Ashooh in the Office of Admission
(Box 7156) or by e-mail at knashooh@davidson.edu by
March 19",
i nee : Questions?

E-mail or call x2969.

i

?

