CAMERON SCHOOL

LANE OF BUSINESS

Master of Science in Accountancy
Have you thought about a career in public accounting,
corporate accounting, or management consulting?
Do you want to be a CPA?

All undergraduate majors welcome. Our 10-month, full-time MSA program
begins in August. We offer an excellent teaching faculty, smaller classes,
lower tuition, and excellent financtal assistance opportunities.
Cameron School of Business is accredited by AACSB,
Applications are due April 1; early applications are encouraged.

All major accounting firms recruit at UNCW.
For information, come to the Davidson College September
Career Fair or contact Kathy Erickson
_ 910-962-3903 or ericksonk@uncw.edu

an EEO/AA institution

NEws

Jeffries, from page 1

him to interact with a wide variety of Davidson
students over the years. He values this aspect
of his job the most.

“T enjoy the relationships I form with stu-
dents and the opportunity to see students de-
velop in this setting,” Jeffries said. “I’ve been
able to form a lot of relationships, and I am still
in close contact with students ffom my first
class in 1996.”

Jeffries’ desire to connect with the people in
his life carries over to his role as pastor.

“He speaks to everyone he knows, and many
times it is a student, faculty member, or one of
his friends who speaks to him first,” said Byron
Miller 08, who regularly attends Gethsemane
Baptist Church. “He is approachable and genu-
inely cares for those around him. The most
important quality of his personality is demon-
strated in his character. He lives what he
preaches.”

Jeffries has served as a minister for ten years;
before becoming head pastor, he was an asso-
ciate pastor for eight years at churches in
Asheville and Charlotte. He came to
Gethsemane in March.

“After being in the ministry for ten years, I
came to realize it was something I was called

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

todo,” Jeffries said. “I’d been very involved in
church all ‘dy life.”

Church services at Gethsemane contain
hymn singing, scripture reading, pastoral re-
flections, and a sermon. Jeffries described the
services as “pretty lively” and stressed the sig-
nificant student turnout since the beginning of
the semester.

“A typical church service with Dean Jeffries
is upbeat, down to earth, with a positive mes-
sage that can be taken from each sermon,” said
Jarrod Blue ’08, another member of the
Gethsemane congregation.

“The church is always half full, but by the
time the service is over it seems as if the church .
is full because of the warm feeling you leave
with.” :

Jeffries believes that his job at Davidson
College and his job at Gethsemane complement
each other. ‘

“Both positions are about developing people.
I do consider my job here as being somewhat
pastoral. I try to help uplift students and de-
velop them to be the best they can be. I do the
same in church, so they can be the same inspi-
ration to someone else,” Jeffries said.

Gethsemane Baptist Church is located on
Jetton Street in Davidson. Sunday services are
held at 11:00 a.m.

_ Jeffries takes the role of the pastor at Gethsemane Baptist Church.

