THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
Marcu 24, 2004

Davidson downs Goliath: ’Cats erupt for 11 runs vs. Wake

= Aaa ot i a . eee ORAS ere = . Weg Ory
ball. He had two hits, two runs, and two stolen bases in last night’s win over the Demon Deacons.

By RIcHARD CONNOLLY

Staff Writer

In keeping with the spirit of March Madness, the baseball
team appropriately played David to Wake Forest’s Goliath last
night, as the Wildcats upset the Demon Deacons 11-9 at Wild-
cat Park.

Davidson had not won a game against Wake in 8 years,
losing 15 straight. Last season, the two teams played twice,
with Wake Forest winning both by a combined 18 runs. Bill
Riggs ’05 picked up his first win of the season after coming
on in the fifth and pitching 3.1 strong innings, yielding just
three runs.

Davidson trailed 5-3 after four innings, but the offense
erupted in the fifth as the Cats grabbed a 7-5 advantage. An-
drew Musashe ’05, Eli Benefield 05, Michael Muniz ’05,

Lax cruises in 20-3

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Last Friday evening the lacrosse team defeated non-confer-
ence opponent St. Francis (Pa.) by an impressive score of 20-
3. The win marked the first time the Wildcats have scored 20
goals in a contest since defeating Ohio University 22-11 in
2000.

Leading the ’Cats to victory were Lindsey Frank ’05, Millie
McKeachie ’05, and Molly Pickall ’05, who all tallied hat
tricks. Eloise Grose ’06, the team’s current leading scorer, also
scored three goals against the visiting Red Flash.

Davidson jumped out to an early lead, scoring six goals in
the first ten minutes of the half. St. Francis took a total of nine
shots in the game, with only three in the first half, resulting in

- asingle goal.

After a St. Francis goal put the Red Flash on the board with
15:31 left during the first half, the team did not find the net for
the reminder of the half.

At the break, Davidson had relentlessly spread the lead to
15-1, with nine different ’Cats finding the back of the net.

The ’Cats entered the second half with confidence, with
Ruthie Hill ’07 and Marisa McNatt ’07 each scoring in the

Il

Player of the Week

Meggie Patterson ‘OS

Women’s Tennis
Hometown: Raleigh, NC

Major: Psychology

After posting wins in all three of her matches last week, Patterson
was honored with SoCon Player of the Week. Patterson has been on
fire from the number two singles spot of late, winning her last seven
matches while helping her team to four wins in their past five con-
tests. Patterson, undefeated in conference play, has also won six straight
doubles matches alongside Lindsey Powel ’06.

| ai

Sars oS TE ER RE oid

and Jay Heafner ’06 all crossed the plate in the inning, which
was capped by a two-out, two-run double off the bat of Gre-
gory Zage ’07.

Davidson increased its lead to 9-6 in the sixth, but Wake
pulled within one in the top of the eighth. In the bottom half,
however, the ’Cats made it 11-8, and Heafner came on in the
ninth, holding the Deacons to one run as he picked up his fifth
save.

Offensively, the Cats were led by Zage, who went 2-4 while
driving in four runs and scoring another, Additionally, Heafner
scored three times, and Musashe and Muniz both crossed the
plate twice, while Ronnie Shore ’06 was 3-for-4 with a run
and an RBI on the evening.

Davidson now stands at 8-11 on the year.

Prior to the Wake game, Davidson dropped two of three to
Southern Conference rival Elon. In the first two games, the

win over St. Francis

first ten minutes. It was McNatt’s first collegiate goal.

Kiften Stephens ’06 led the ’Cats in points, with six from
her two goals and four assists.

Eleven different Wildcats scored in the game, and Davidson
took 29 shots to St. Francis’ nine. Davidson Goalkeepers Becca
Nussbaum ’04 and Leslie Smith ’06 each played a half, with a
combined five saves for the game.

The St. Francis goalie saved five of the 29 shots fired at her.
Davidson’s defense gave up only three turnovers, while the
Red Flash had nine on the evening.

The win over St. Francis improves Davidson’s record to 3-
7, with the wide range of players scoring goals and assisting
players to the net helping to build the ’Cats’ confidence after
the tough losses to George Washington and Denver the previ-
ous week.

Both the organized defensive effort and the persistent at-
tack of the Wildcats proved to their opponents and fans, and
more importantly to themselves, that they can be successful.
This will be key in the upcoming-games on the Davidson sched-
ule.

After the St. Francis match-up, Davidson does not have an-
other game until the team travels to Ohio to play conference
rivals Ohio University and Ohio State (ranked no. 18 nation-
ally) the weekend of April 2 and 3.

il he BOTT 0

M cE TN

alla pattem sii
Pet tin =e mae

"Cats were outscored 22-5, as they were held to just 10 hits.
Andy Carter ’05 struck out a career-high eight batters in the
second game but was ultimately charged with the loss, drop-
ping to 0-3 on the year.

Game three proved to be an entirely different story. Captain
Brian Akin ’03 improved to 4-0 on the mound, surrendering
just one earned run in eight innings while striking out five
Phoenix batters against one walk. Akin now boasts a 1.75 ERA
in 36 innings work and is holding opponents to a .198 batting
average.

‘Davidson was helped by clutch hitting in the bottom of the
eighth, as the ’Cats picked up three runs on three hits to grab
the 5-3 lead. Heafner relieved Akin in the ninth, allowing just
one hit as Davidson improved to 4-5 in conference play.

see Baseball, page 13

y Russefh

Leslie Smith ’06 is poised to make the save.
E

PLAY OF THE WEEK

to a respectable 4-5.

of the eighth, the Wildcats used some clutch hitting to make sure that would not
With two outs and shortstop Eli Benefield ’05 on second, Michael
Muniz ’05 worked a full-count walk from the Phoenix reliever. After a
wild pitch moved both runners up, Alex Entrekin ’06 singled to left on
a two-strike pitch that put the Wildcats up 4-3. Entrekin later came
around to score the insurance run on a double by Jay Heafner ’06.
With a two-run lead, Heafner then took the mound to record his fourth
save of the season, bringing Davidson’s Southern Conference record

After losing two awful games to Elon by a combined score of 22-5, the ’Cats were in
danger of being swept by the conference rivals. Staring at a 3-2 deficit going into the bottom

happen.

