2 ‘Tue DAvIpSONIAN

Campus Police Blotter

Satellite Parking Lot

9/6 Property Theft

Student reports that an Alpine car stereo had been stolen from their 1995 Chevy Tahoe
between September 4 at about 10 p.m. and September 5 at 9 a.m. The vehicle was parked
in upper Satellite parking lot near Ridge Road. There are no suspects at this time.

9/15 Richardson Dorm Vehicle Theft

Student reports that between September 9 at 3 p.m. and September 14 at 10 a.m., some
unknown person(s) took their gold/salver Trek 4500 mountain bike from the bike rack at
Richardson Dorm. Victim stated that they locked just one lock, which had been unlocked

at the time of the theft.

9/16 Vail Commons Property Theft
On 09/16/2004 reporting officer spoke with victim who stated that they went to Commons
around 11:4Ohrs and put their mail including a DVD of Animal House on the coat rack when

they returned to retrieve it around 11:58hrs the DVD was missing.

9/20 Property Theft
Student reports that their Motorola V60S mobile phone may have been stolen. The last
time they saw the phone was on September 13. The reported value is $250.00.

9/20 Alvarez College Union Property Theft

Student reports that their blue/grey in color Trek 850 Mountain bike had been stolen from
the Student Union on September 18 at around 3 p.m. Victim states that the bike was not
secured and that they had not seen it in the area in which they had left it. The bike is valued

at around $200.00. *

NEws.

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
704-892-0604

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004

Black Eyed Peas to perform

in fall semi-annual concert
Peas selected after student first choice Chapelle falls through

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

The Union Board has announced that the
Black Eyed Peas will perform a concert in
Baker Sports Arena on November 10.

The Los Angeles-based hip hop group will
come to Davidson as the fall performance in
the college’s semi-annual concert series.

The process of bringing the Black Eyed
Peas to Davidson involved many people on
campus, from the Union Board’s Concert

“The Black Eyed Peas are a fun band
that most students enjoy listening and
dancing to already, so we hope that most
students will come out and show their
interest in the show by buying tickets
early.”

--Katherine Cox ‘07, Concert Com-
mittee chair

Committee to every member of the current
sophomore, junior, and senior class.

“A lot of it is controlled by the music
industry because the industry dictates who’s
out on tour and what kind of tour it will be,”
Assistant Director of Union Programs Lee
Ann Bannerman said. “We always survey the
students in some way or another. Sometimes
the survey will be a menu of options; other
times we find out if they’re interested in a
particular artist. We ask if they would pay x
number of dollars to see a concert, and they
can answer yes, no, or maybe.”

This year’s survey listed seven names and
allowed students to choose from acts such as
Dave Chappelle, the Black Eyed Peas, Kanye
West, and OAR.

Although popular comedian Dave
Chappelle had the strongest student response,
the Concert Committee was unable to bring
him to Davidson.

“We were pursuing that possibility, but it
fell through when Dave Chappelle landed a
contract with Comedy Central,” Bannerman
said. “It propelled him to a status that we
couldn’ t entertain, and it was outside what we
were prepared to do.”

The Black Eyed Peas finished with the
second-highest number of votes.

“It is important for Davidson to bring this
act because it represents the wishes of the
student body,” said Katherine Cox ’07, the
chair of the Concert Committee. “The money

comes from the students, so the Concert
Committee believes it is our job to bring bands
they would like to see.”

Student reactions were mixed.

‘T'm so fricken excited because they’re
playing at Radio City Music Hall and at
Davidson this year, and they just won their
first VMA a week ago,” said Sophia Meyers
08.

“T don’t think I’m going to go because I
don’t really like their music that much; I’d
rather see Prince,” said Jimmy Newlin ’05.

The Black Eyed Peas are an energetic hip
hop group composed of four members:
will.i.am, apl.de.ap, Taboo, and Fergie.

They gained notoriety in the music world
with their 2003 album Elephunk, which .
included popular hits such as “Where as the
Love,” “Hey Mama,” and”“Let’s Get
Retarded.”

“The Black Eyed Peas are a fun band that
most students enjoy listening and dancing to
already, so we hope that most students will
come out and show their interest in the show
by buying tickets early,” Cox said.

Tickets for the November 10 concert will
likely go on sale in early October. They will
cost anywhere from $15 to $25 and will be
sold online and at the Ticket Office in the
Union.

Any remaining tickets will be sold at Baker
on the day of the concert. Tickets will also be
available to members of the Black Eyed Peas
fan club and to the general public. Bannerman
expects attendance to range from 2,800 to
5,000 people. .

Preparations for the concert have not yet
begun but will include building a stage, putting
in lights and sound, and transforming the
arena into a musical venue.

“The Concert Committee currently has 96
people on the mailing list, and we hope to
involve everyone who wants to participate in
publicity, day of show events, and other
preparations for the upcoming concert,” Cox
said.

Past acts that have come to Davidson
include Dave Matthews, Counting Crows,
Bill Cosby, the Indigo Girls, and Ben Folds.

“The concerts provide some of the same
opportunities to Davidson students that
students at big universities have,” Bannerman
said. “Itis a way for Davidson College students
to feel like they’re not missing anything by
going to a small school. It also allows
Davidson students to experience concerts at a
fraction of the cost.”

The Black Eyed Peas are coming to Davidson on November 10 as
part of the semi-annual concert series.
