THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 .

15

’Cats return from tough California trip with two losses

The Wildcats lost to San Francisco and Santa Clara on the trip, but
also gained valuable experience against playoff caliber teams.

By Brian HELFRICH
Staff Writer

The men’s soccer team traveled west this
past weekend to California for the adidas/
Santa Clara Classic and suffered two tough
losses to very strong opponents.

‘In their opening clash against former soc-
cer powerhouse University of San Francisco
last Thursday night, the Cats were unable to
maintain their 1-0 lead and fell to the Dons,
3-1.

The first half saw numerous Davidson scor-
ing opportunities go for naught, as both sides
were scoreless entering halftime.

The Wildcats dominating play continued
into the second half, as junior midfielder Will
Carroll ’06 and sophomore striker Mac Wilkie
°07 both missed close calls on the offensive
end. In the 57th minute, Davidson finally tal-
lied a goal, as sophomore forward Robbie
Reynolds ’07 buried a header to give the ’Cats
the 1-0 lead. Reynolds’ second goal on the
season came courtesy of an assist by fellow
sophomore front-liner Marco Antunez ’07.

The Wildcat lead lasted only six minutes,
however, as a USF forward snuck behind the
defense for the tying score. “They scored a
great goal to tie the game and with it they
gained confidence,” said head coach Matt
Spear. San Francisco went on to score two
more goals in the next twenty minutes, and
Davidson lost 3-1.

“It’s a disappointing loss because we con-
trolled the game and were up 1-0 in the sec-
ond half,” Spear said.’’“‘It was a game we were
in control of, but [we] let it slip away. We had
many scoring chances in the first and second
halves that we just couldn’t put away.” The
failure to capitalize on scoring opportunities
has been a common theme throughout the

Women’s Soccer splits two games on road

Jessica Lahre '07 scores
two goals in victory ~*
against High Point, but
Wildcats drop ‘difficult’
game to tough competi-
tion at Wake Forest.

By MICHAEL TELLIS
Staff Writer

The women’s soccer team split a pair of road
games this past week against High Point and
Atlantic Coast Conference foe Wake Forest,
beating the Panthers on Wednesday but fall-
ing to the Demon Deacons on Friday in Win-
ston Salem. —

The Wildcats continued their fine early-sea-
son run earlier in the week, as they beat High
Point 3-1 on Wednesday.

Forward Jessica Lahre ’07 scored twice in
the second half on assists from Kara Koehrn
’06 and Heidi Wilbrandt ’07. Wilbrandt then
capped an impressive performance with her
first goal of the season and Davidson’s third
of the game in the 69th minute to put the match
out of reach.

Anne Stevens ’07, who seems to be in-
volved in almost every Wildcat goal this sea-
son, assisted-in Wilbrandt’s goal.

High Point finally managed to score against
freshman goalie Bevin English ’08 in the 79th
minute of play, but by then the game was a
foregone conclusion. The win boosted
Davidson’s record to 4-2 this season.

According to head coach Greg Ashton, the
victory over the Panthers was the ’Cats’ best

offensive game of the season. “At halftime I.

was disappointed that we hadn’t gotten any
goals. But then we had a couple of fine head-

ers in the second half. We had a lot of scoring
Opportunities and could have won by an even
greater margin.”

The ’Cats were hoping to continue their
winning ways on Friday against the Demon
Deacons, but Davidson was unable to hold off
an early Wake Forest onslaught in a 4-2 loss.
Davidson went behind by two goals early in
the game, as Wake Forest netted a pair of shots
in the first 15 minutes of play. Davidson fought
back, as Koehrn responded with a goal min-
utes later to pull the ’Cats within 2-1.

The Wildcats went into the locker room still
down 2-1 at the half, but Wake Forest used a
relentless offensive attack in the second half
to score two more goals and put the game out
of reach for the Wildcats. Still, the Wildcats
had their chances in the contest, as-three
Davidson shots hit the crossbar but did not
find the back of the net.

Also, despite allowing three goals on the
day, Hobart had a solid performance in goal
with eight saves overall, including one on a
second-half penalty kick. Wilbrandt then
struck in the 89" minute to register her sec-
ond goal of the season and pull the Wildcats
to within 4-2, but it was too little too late for
the Cats.

“Tt was a difficult ‘game. We went behind
early but then came back. We hit the posts a
few times. We are disappointed whenever we
lose but so long as we are learning from each
performance, it serves us well” said Ashton.

The defeat has also not affected team mo-
rale much, as evident from the attitude of de-
fender Kara Hawkesworth ’07. ““Wake Forest
is a great team. Even though we lost, it was a
good game. We hit the posts on three occa-
sions and are not the type of team that is go-
ing to give up if we are scored against.”

This week the ’Cats hope to maintain their
stay atop the Southern Conference standings
when they travel to Elon on Wednesday.
Davidson started their conference slate on a

S. Hobart ’05 had 8 saves against
Wake despite giving up 3 goals.

winning note earlier this month, beating Ap-
palachian State 4-1, but defender Robin
French’07 says,’““We are focused on our con-
ference game against Elon. It is a big game
and we hope that it is a good one.”

Ashton believes that the game will be tough,
and is hoping for the best. In his words,”“I
hope that we can come back [this Wednes-
day] with a win. Elon has a tough schedule
with a lot of non-conference games. This is
their first Conference game and they will be
fired up. We are hoping to make our confer-
ence record for this season 2-0.”

The”’Cats then have another big game on
the road this Friday against Duke, and

Davidson will be looking to avenge last year’s

7-0 loss to the Devils

“Duke is ranked in the top 25. It is a great
opportunity to take on strong opposition.”
according to Ashton.

Hawkesworth says “The team is really ex-
cited about the Duke gamie. Our game against
Wake Forest shows that we can play well
against anybody.”

g

young season thus far, and the Wildcats: out-
shot the Dons 9-6 for the game. For just the
second time in this young season, however,
the offensive inefficiency resulted in a
Davidson loss.

The ’Cats were back in action on Saturday
night, and they fell 3-0 to No. 4 Santa Clara.
The host Broncos dominated the game early
on, and Davidson could not recover quickly
enough to keep the game within reach. Still,
the game against the powerhouse Broncos was
a good early test for the young Wildcats. “Play-
ing such a good team early on in the season is
a huge learning experience for us, win or lose,”
Spear said.

Santa Clara possessed size and speed that
proved too much for the’ Cats. The Broncos
scored early and often, putting away three
goals in the first 37 minutes of the contest.
Davidson, missing a few key players for the
weekend, battled tirelessly, but the quick three
goal deficit was too much to overcome.

The game did allow all 18 Davidson play-
ers that made the trip to receive significant
playing time. Their second half effort only
resulted in one shot, by freshman midfielder
Robby Hoak’’08, and the ‘Cats were out-shot
14-1 for the game.

“Santa Clara is a great team. They high-pres-
sured us, we didn’t react, and we let it slip
away,” Spear said.”““The game did allow us
to play all of our guys that made the trip. Jor-
dan Hauser‘‘’06 and Jon Bassett ’08 played
particularly well in the second half.”

Reynolds was named to the all-tournament
team for the first time in his career, and team-
mate Joey Bass ’05 made his second all-tour-
nament team in as many weekends. The ‘Cats
have a brief eight-day hiatus before their game
next Sunday afternoon at College of Charles-
ton.

from Spectator, page 12

ous promotions at each of these feature games
in an effort to bring fans out to field hockey,
women’s soccer and cross country, along with
the mainstream sports such as football and
basketball.

But let’s not just wait for those featured
match-ups, as our teams need us now, as they
do every time they suit up here on campus.
Let’s start the trend this homecoming week-
end, as football, volleyball and field hockey
all have games at Davidson after early season
road swings.

Show up to homecoming on Saturday, en-
joy the festivities, and help the football team
turn around a tough start to the 2004 season
against Butler. Get out to Belk Arena on Fri-
day night for volleyball’s SoCon opener
against the Citadel, or to field hockey’s Sun-
day match-up with Radford before they hit the
road again for almost a month.

If not this weekend, just get out there and
support the team sometime during the year,
or congratulate the players on a good game
when you see them on campus.

Hopefully, then we might someday be able
to live up to the dreaded “‘wine-and-cheese”
label that still haunts the Tar Heels.

| STSTRAVEL.COM

1-800-648-4849 / www.ststravel.com
