14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Women’s Soccer Kicks Off

- By Micuaet TELLIs
Staff Writer

After weathering a tough 2003 season, there
isa definite sense of excitement from the

women’s soccer team as it opens its 2004 cam- ‘

paign in the midst of change.

The 2003 season ended in disappointment,
as the Wildcats were unable to qualify for the
Southern Conference tournament for the first
time since the team’s inception after going 3-
6-2 in conference play, but the ’Cats hope to
improve upon that result this year and return
to the top of the Southern Conference.

The 2004 version of women’s soccer sports
many new changes and faces, including a new
coach, a new stadium, and four new players
that all hope to jump-start a proud program.
Long-time Head Coach Kevin Hunley left the
Davidson program in the off-season, opening
the door for new coach Greg Ashton, who pre-
viously headed up Division III Trinity Uni-
versity for four years.

Ashton was the epitome of success at Trin-
ity, where he received the Southern Collegiate
Athletic Conference’s Coach of the Year hon-
ors and accumulated an impressive 71-8-2
record during his four year stay.

Despite the difficulties of the 2003 season,
the Wildcats open the 2004 year with optimism
since they return almost every player from a
year ago.

In particular, 2003 All-Conference
midfielder Kara Koehrn ’06 and senior goal-
keeper and co-captain Sarah Hobart’’05 look
to form the core of a strong returning group.

Koehrn led the Wildcats in points and goals
last year, with 15 and 7 respectively, and will
again be called to make an impact on the of-
fensive side of the ball.

Hobart, meanwhile, looks to build upon a
solid 2003 season in which she registered 5

shutouts and continued to climb up the ~*

Davidson record books. She ended the 2003
season second on the all-time list for minutes
played, with 5,002, as well as for saves, with
309, and will undoubtedly add stability to a
solid defensive group. On her expectations for
her final season, Hobart says, “We just want
to end with a feeling of satisfaction that ev-
eryone has done the best that they could.”
On the whole, the ’Cats return eight start-
ers from last year’s squad, and 20 players over-
all. Furthermore, Coach Ashton has also
signed a solid incoming class that includes
Bevin English ’08, Nancy Haskell ’08 and

Kristen Koehrn ’08, sister of the junior all-,

Conference performer. The younger Koehrn

impressed during her debut against Charlotte

on Sunday, playing all ninety minutes of the
game.

The Wildcats’ progress will be tested early
and often. They will face four teams, High
Point, Wake Forest, Duke and UNC Greens-
boro, that all qualified for the NCAA tourna-
ment play last year in the 2004 season. The
Sept. 15 match-up with High Point, in particu-
lar, will be an early barometer for the Wild-
cats.

Once conference play begins, the Wildcats
will look to recover from last year’s disap-
pointing performance, and again qualify for
the postseason tournament after a one-year
absence. The team has also pointed to the Oct.
17 match-up with Furman as a highlight of
the 2004 season, as the’Cats look to avenge a
disappointing 0-3 loss to the archrivals from
last year.

The Wildcats opened the season with a 1-0
victory over Charlotte, their first-ever victory
over the cross-town rivals, and will next travel
to California for some West Coast competi-
tion in two showdowns with San Diego State
and UC Riverside

Nahum Navas ’06 focused in-
tently on the ball in a preseason:
exhibition vs. Liberty.

‘ from Men’s Soccer, page 13

ing a school-high ten shutouts. Other defend-
ers who contributed to the ’Cats stellar per-
formance were Bart Creasman ’05, Ben
Kittinger ’05, Joey Bass ’05, Nahum Navas
’06, and Will Carroll’’06.

Though the result of the preseason finale
against Liberty was not in Davidson’s favor,
it gave each player and the team as a whole
the chance to see what can be improved upon
before the season-opener.

One especially encouraging facet of this
year’s team is the good chemistry that is al-
ready evident so early in the season. “[My
teammates] are a great bunch of guys, and we

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 1, 2004

get along both on and off the field,” said
Creasman.

Even though Davidson loses little from its
2003 charnpionship team, the media recently
voted Davidson as only the third best team in
the Southern Conference behind UNC Greens-
boro and the College of Charleston, perhaps
because of concerns about a consistent of-
fense. ““We-had a good spring season, a good
summer training program, so we do feel ready
[far the fall season],” said Spear, who also
admitted that “we need to build offense.” Still,

, it seems that there is certainly a wealth of tal-

ent to fill that void, including returning sopho-
mores Mac Wilkie”’07 and Marco
Antunez’’07. Spear says “the rankings show
that other coaches do not respect our program,
but that only motivates us.”

As always, Davidson will be tested through-
out the season, as the "Cats are prepared to
play a difficult schedule that includes five
teams that finished in Top-20 at the end of the
2003 season.

UNC Greensboro and Charleston are the
programs to beat within the league, and
Furman remains a contender despite its two
losses to Davidson last year. “Every game in ,
the conference is a rivalry,” explains Spear.”

“We lost players, but so did everyone else.”
Other big games take place against South
Carolina on September 29, Wake Forest on
November 2, and cross-town rival Charlotte
on November 5. ,

Davidson’s home opener takes place against
Marquette, picked sixth in the coaches’ poll
of Conference U.S.A., on Wednesday at 7 p.m.
in Richardson Stadium. °

Conference action begins September 26 at
the College of Charleston.

Coach Spear regards the upcoming season
with optimism but also with realism. “We
don’t want to try to base our expectations on
last year’s success. We want to make our own
story.”

Tickets on sale Now!

1 ~ +
Shaw and Nancy

Koresh Dance
Company
Friday, September 10,
2004

“~

Chicago City
Limits
Saturday, November 6,

2004

AVIDSON

For tickets, call the Davidson College Union Ticket Office at 704-894-2135.
Series packages at special rates are available through September 10.

AVL:

Bruce Wood
Dance Company
Friday, January 28,
2005

oer Le

‘Poncho Sanchez

2004-2005

Latin Jazz Band
Saturday, April 9,
2005

Students, faculty, and staff discounts available,

cali the ticket office at ex. 2135

