THE DAVIDSONIAN

Madrid, from page 1

right now. Al Qaeda terrorism is another issue
altogether, adding the fear of anti-American
actions and the possibility of another attack at
any moment.

“If our group were in Spain right now, we
would have to be living with that fear, which
would seriously detract. from the high spirits
that usually accompany travel and, for our
group, art,” Pate said.

Dawson expressed a similar attitude.

“Tt’s hard to pass on a trip to Madrid that
was graciously given to all of us, but in the end
it came down to being safe and piece of mind
for out class and families,” she said.

In addition to concerns about national secu-
rity, many students felt that it would be inap-
propriate and disrespectful to tour Madrid in
its current state.

“To be there and try to carry on with our
planned itinerary would force us to ignore the
pain that Spain is suffering right now, and none
of us want to be insensitive,” Pate said.

Smith echoed a similar attitude in a state-
ment issued on March 14.

“Thinking about 9/11, most students didn’t
want to appear like tourists, going to Madrid
to view their sadness, and then leaving. They
felt like it would have been disrespectful,” said
Smith.

Currently, Smith is looking into scheduling
another trip for the art students to go on this
spring.

Ball, from page 1

thousand emotions and reach more people in
different ways,” Moore said.

President of Adopt-a-Country AIDS Cam-
paign (ACAC) and member of Warner Hall
Judie Kaplan said, “I don’t think any of us was
prouder to be a member of Warner Hall or
ACAC. Everyone really pulled together.”

Kaplan, whose father died from AIDS dur-
ing her childhood, spoke to the group about

The tentative trip would go to Dallas, Texas
and visit the Meadows Museum of Art, which
apparently houses an extensive collection of
Spanish art.

photo by Associated Press

A mourner in Madrid lights a
candle in honor of those who lost
their lives in last week’s bombing.
Davidson art majors canceled their
trip to Madrid for reasons of
respect and safety.

her experiences and the importance of AIDS
awareness, testing, and research.

Moore said, “I hope the tradition of service
will forever be changed because of this event
because we all should act locally, but think glo-

dally.”:

Metrolina AIDS Project was founded in 1895
by Leslie Kooeyman. The organization pro-
vides respite care for infants and toddlers, HIV

_ testing, and education.

News

WEDNEsDAY, Marcu 17, 2004 3

Election bylaws changed

Honor Council candidates may now submit
100-word statement to student body

By Biair McGraw
Senior Staff Writer

Students running for the Honor Council will
now be able to submit a short statement for
distribution to the student body, the Student
Government Association (SGA) decided at its
meeting last Thursday.

The SGA overwhelniingly passed a resolu-
tion changing student election bylaws to allow
those running for the Honor Council to submit
a personal statement.

SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05, run-
ning her first meeting, told the SGA that“over
the years there has been a lot of debate back
and forth” regarding this issue.

The previous SGA bylaws did not allow
candidates for the Honor Council, Review
Board, Student Conduct Council, Defense
Advisor, or Student Solicitor to “campaign in
any manner.”

Now, candidates may submit a 100-word
statement tothe elections chair, which will then
be distributed to the student body. Candidates,
however, may not campaign in any other man-

ner or they will face disqualification.

The SGA decided to alter the bylaws to al-
low students to be more familiar with the can-
didates for which they vote. The resolution said
that the previous restrictions made “voting
difficult for students who do not know the
candidates” and that “[the short statement will]
be beneficial for both candidates and the stu-
dent body.”

“A lot of times students don’t know who
they’re voting for when they vote for honor
council,’? said Hubbard. Since the honor coun-
cil is an’“integral part of our school,” in an
election that important candidates should have
the opportunity to express why they are run-
ning, she added.

Because of the Honor Council’s importance,
Waiker Saik ’06 suggested sending the state-
ments out a week in advance of the elections.
SGA Vice-President Francois Trappey '06
agreed, saying that such a measure would pre-
vent the statements from being lost among the
numerous other positions.

The next elections for these positions take
place the final week this month.

Work in Davidson
This Summer

Summer Employment in
_ The Library

The Library is now accepting applications for student summer
workers. Positions are available in all departments.

Interested Students should
Contact Jean Coates, Library Circulation Office. Ext. 2332

