THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

15

Men’s Soccer wins season opener, but falls .
on road to 18th ranked Old Dominion

Robbie Reynold’s ’07 scored the
winning goal against Marquette.

By BriAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

Davidson 1, Marquette 0

The men’s soccer team opened their season
last Wednesday with a 1-0 victory over visit-
ing Marquette. It is no surprise that Davidson
started the season with a shutout, picking up
right where the team left off last season. Bart
Creasman ’05 added to his career tally of shut-
Outs, now at ten, after recording a single-sea-
son Davidson record eight shutouts in 2003.

Although the ‘Cats controlled the play for
the majority of the first half, they were unable
to find the back of the net before halftime.
The Wildcats adopted a new formation change
in the off-season, and have since gained a more

attacking mentality, but the new pressure did
not show on the scoreboard after forty-five
minutes. Still, Davidson kept attacking dur-
ing the sgcond half, and with just fifteen min-
utes remaining in the game, midfielder David
Sartorio ’06 found an open Robbie Reynolds

. ’07, who buried a shot into the side netting

for the game’s only score.

The win was the fourth consecutive open-
ing game victory under head coach Matt Spear
*93. “Every win is equally important,” said
Spear. “I think we made it a little more diffi-
cult on ourselves by not converting some early
opportunities. On the same note, this was an-
other strong defensive performance for us.”

The win also showed that Davidson’s break-
through year in 2003, a season that included a
Southern Conference Championship and a trip
to the NCAA Tournament, was no fluke.

Reynolds’ goal, the third of his young ca-
reer, was a prime example of Davidson’s un-
selfish style of offense. Under Spear’s system,

there is no superstar, but rather a number of
talented players that can, at any given moment,

contribute to the big play. “Robbie is one of

those players who will always try to make the .

big play,” Spear commented. “He is a ‘game-
winning goal’ kind of player. You can’t teach
or coach a player those kinds of skills.”

Old Dominion 2, Davidson 0

This past Saturday, the ’Cats traveled north
to Norfolk, Virginia to face Old Dominion,
and were unable to carry their momentum
from the opening win in falling to the #18
Monarchs 2-0. ODU continued their domina-
tion at home, extending their undefeated streak
to 18 games in Norfolk.

Davidson spent the majority of the game
trying to rally from behind, as the Monarchs
took an early 1-0 lead just 8:42 into the game.
ODU’s tough defense made it difficult to get

Women’s Soccer drops two
matches on California trip

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

The Davidson women’s soccer team (1-2)
has returned home from a disappointing pair
of losses this weekend in California at the
SDSU tournament, where they first played San
Diego State University (1-2-1) and then UC
Riverside (4-0). Neither of the games was part
of conference play for Davidson.

The Wildcats took to the road for the first

time this season on Friday to challenge the ~

SDSU Aztecs, the hosts of the tournament.
The meeting was the first between the two
teams, and although the Davidson women

Kara Koehrn ’06 is one of four
’Cats who.call San Diego home.

played a tough match, the ’Cats fell 1-0 to the
Aztecs.

The game was scoreless for most of the con-
test, but the Aztecs scored off a loose ball in
front of the net with less than twelve minutes
to play to take a decisive 1-0 lead. For the
game, Wildcat goalkeeper Sarah Hobart ’05
registered four saves to match her total from
the opening win against Charlotte, but was
unable to prevent the game-winning shot. “We
came out strong, but the last fifteen minutes
of the games were probably the best we’ ve
played all season,” Hobart said.

On Sunday, the women then traveled to UC
Riverside to play the undefeated
Highlanders, and ended with a 3-0 loss.

Though Davidson sent six shots at goal
against UC Riverside, they were unable to fin-
ish on any of their scoring chances. Hobart
once again remained strong in the back, notch-
ing a season-high of six saves, but the High-
lander offense was too much for the ’Cats to
handle.

The Highlanders netted their first goal only
six minutes before the half, and two more goals
in the second frame put the game out of reach
for the Wildcats. For the game, UC Riverside
totaled 16 shots on goal.

After the tough weekend, the ’Cats are ready _

to return home and begin their conference
schedule. “We’re really excited for our first
game in the conference,” said Hobart. “Sun-
day was physical, and I think that has prepared
us [for the rest of the season].”

Following a few days of rest, Davidson will

begin Southern Conference play fresh and -

ready tonight at 7:30 p.m. against Appalachian
State (1-2).

goal scoring opportunities, and the ’Cats went
into the locker room still down 1-0 at the half.

Just sixteen minutes into the second half,
an ODU midfielder took advantage of a de-
fensive mishap by the Wildcats to give the
home side a 2-0 advantage, a lead the Mon-
archs would not relinquish. Davidson’s Matt
Allen ’06 had the best scoring chance for the
Wildcafs on the day, knocking a ball off the
crossbar midway through the second period.

“We will take a lot from this game,” said
Spear after the loss. “This will prepare us for
other difficult road games on our schedule, and
hopefully we’ ll reap the benefits of this early
challenge later in the season.”

Davidson will look to rebound from the loss
this weekend as they play host to the adidas/
Davidson classic, battling Vanderbilt on Fri-
day and The University of Alabama-Birming-
ham on Sunday afternoon.

Marco Antunez 07 looks to pass.

Sarah Hobart ’05 registered 10
saves in 2 matches in out west.

Peninsula China Bistro
704 987-2299

“Each entrée a masterpiece...
Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet”

Fine Wines @ Full Bar

Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere

Reservations Accepted —
Carryout

FREE DELIVERY {min $20)

from Construction, page 16

Fortunately, it looks as though the men’s
team might play on the field quite soon. “Ide-
ally, the field will be ready by Sept. 10 to play
[against Vanderbilt]; this will come down to
the wire if there is significant rain,” says
Murphy.

“A decision will be made on Tuesday [Sept.
7] as to whether it will be ready for Sept. 10.”

Reynolds was optimistic about the opening
date, as well. “I think we'll be able to play on
the field next week on the 10th and 12th. Of
course the locker room won’t be completed
by then, along with some of the finer aesthetic
details, but the field is the most important
thing.”

Murphy agreed, saying, “We are still wait-
ing on the locker rooms, but we can play be-
fore those are completed; those are not neces-
sary.”

Aside from creating a better soccer atmo-
sphere, Alumni Stadium will help Davidson’s
soccer teams in many areas, including recruit-
ing.

“The new stadium will certainly help in re-

“cruiting, as top players will love this playing
environment,” says Spear.

More importantly, the stadium reinforces
Davidson’s priorities. “This does so much for
the soccer program,” says Murphy. “Great
facilities like these show a commitment to the
program.”

“The new complex is a tremendous step
forward for both soccer programs, the Ath-
letic Department, the College, and area soc-
cer fans,” Spear says.”“And what is much
larger about this team’s move onto the new
field is what it means for our alumni, parents,
and friends of the program.”

According to Reynolds, the addition of the
stadium is already paying dividends. “There
are going to be a lot of benefits, and the fact
that we are already hosting our own tourna-
ment is a sign of what this project could do
for the overall soccer program. I also think it
will help improve the experience of the fans.
I’m just excited to be a part of such an impor-
tant step for Davidson Athletics.”

Clearly, everyone involved in the project has
stayed upbeat throughout, realizing that “a
year from now, people will remember the field
itself, and not these [minor] delays,” says
Murphy.

Spear, a former Wildcat soccer player him-
self, says, “[Alumni Stadium] provides all of
us, including myself as an alumnus, our own
home in which to stake our pride and passion.
It is fitting that the namesake is Alumni Sta-
dium, due to where the funding and historical
foundation came from.”

Clearly, Alumni Stadium highlights
Davidson’s commitment on the field of play.
“Projects like this show a commitment to ath-
letics here at Davidson College,” says Murphy.

The dedication for 1992 Team Field at
Alumni Stadium will take place before the
men’s soccer game against Wake Forest on
Nov. 2.

LUNCH HOURS
:30-3:00

Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00 « Sun 12:00-3:00

