Staff Editorial

A failure to
communicate

Davidson has long been recognized as having both a superb
faculty and an open and responsive administration willing to
listen to complaints as well as compliments.

_ Yet an incident that occurred over the summer sheds light on
the fact that relations between the faculty and the administra-
tion may not have been quite as good as they appeared.

As The Davidsonian reports this week, a letter signed by the
members of the Faculty Committee on Admissions and Finan-
cial Aid and sent to the entire Davidson College faculty said
President Vagt “circumvented the admission process by admit-
ting to the Class of 2008 an applicant who was denied admis-
sion by a majority vote of the voting faculty serving on the
Faculty Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid.”

The letter suggested that Vagt’s actions amounted to a vio-
lation of the Faculty Bylaws. Upon review of the incident, it
was determined that Vagt did indeed have the authority to admit
the student given his powers under the College Constitution.

The administration, the faculty and the Board of Trustees
have all taken steps over the summer to adopt new guidelines
on admissions procedures.

We fully support these new guidelines and applaud all those
involved for both the expedient manner in which they were
adopted, and also for using language that ensures that the fac-
ulty continues to play a major role in admissions decisions.

Yet despite the relatively positive outcome, we must ask why
this incident developed the way it did? Why did the members
of the faculty committee feel the need to write such an accusa-
tory letter? Why were the President and members of the Faculty
Committee on Admissions and Financial Aid not able to com-
municate better and reach an agreement amongst themselves?

While no one individual or group is at fault here, the inability
of the faculty and the administration to effectively communi-
cate, cooperate and reach a compromise, and the way in which
all sides handled the situation could have potentially caused the
College significant harm and embarrassment.

The fact that the letter was only addressed to the faculty and
was not meant to be seen by students and others from outside
the college is beside the point. Both sides should have been able
to work together better than they did.

Thankfully the way in which the incident was ultimately
resolved and the new guidelines adopted seem to indicate that
both the faculty and the administration are currently committed
to a future filled with more open and timely communications.

Let us just hope that it stays that way.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editor
Zach Williams
News Editors
Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Nicholas Carlson
Arts & Living Editors
Andy Martin & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie: & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
‘Nick Horton
Circnlation Manager
Laura Filosa
_ Advertising Manager
Page.Persons

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
_ WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Letters to the Editors

Davidson 101
expands

This year in an attempt to better educate
this community about itself, the Office of
Minority Affairs as well as other entities
on campus will focus on providing some
opportunities for students to talk with each
other concerning their differences.

In the Davidson 101 class for first year
students, there is now a required class that
deals with diversity.

Through the Lilly Program for Theo-
logical Exploration, there is a program
called Sustained Dialogue Groups.

This program creates safe spaces where
students can explore through ongoing con-
versation how their primary social identi-
ties (particularly with regard to ethnicity
and religion) shape their behaviors,
worldviews, and senses of vocation.

The Office of Minority Affairs is also
planning several discussions this academic
year where students will be brought to-
gether to discuss several aspects of diver-
sity. ,

To get more information concerning
Sustained Dialogue Groups contact Jill
Williams in the Lilly Office at
jiwilliams @ davidson.edu.

For more information concerning the
diversity discussions through the Minor-

car a) SONAL V

ity Affairs Office contact Kema Gadson,
who is our New Diversity Program Advi-
sor at kegadson @davidson.edu or me at
erjeffries @davidson.edu.

Dean Ernest Jeffries
Assistant Dean of Students

Out with the
white lights

Another summer has brought another
round of changes to the College’s ap-
pearance.

Most significantly, the renovation of
Chambers has been completed and the
new landscaping inserted between Cham-
bers and Little Library looks fabulous.
Verdant, spacious greens and wider, sim-
pler brick-ways and entry points have
brought this former wasteland level with
the rest of the campus.

Ls
i

. When the sun goes down, however,

there is an aesthetic problem created by
some artificial light sources.
I do not think that I need to say much

“about the unimaginatively ubiquitous

and garishly bright black lampposts that
have plague the campus for years.

However, I have noticed that their
same bright light now dwells under-
neath the eaves of the front facade of
Chambers.

While spotlights still warm the wings
of Chambers with a stately gleam, the
five incandescent lamps over the front
doors are completely overpowered by
this-otherworldly white light which re-
minds me of Sewanee, Tennessee’s
spooky Templeton Library.

The College’s landscapers are busy
doing wonderful work during the day,
but perhaps they ought to work late once
and observe how little light bulbs can
cast such offensive glances.

Roland F. Foss 05

The Davidsonian welcomes and strongly '
encourages letters to the editor.
Please e-mail submissions of less than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu.
We reserve the right to edit for
content, brevity and grammar.

Managing lies: Swift Boat Veterans and Bush

By SAM SPENCER
Staff Columnist

I’m an adamant supporter of John Kerry.
So I decided last week during my Thursday
dinner at Vail Commons
DECISION to leave some Kerry
200 bumper stickers sitting
around with a sign that
said “Free: Take one!” And many people did
just that.

But some guy took the stickers, ran out of
the dining hall, and threw them in the first
trash can he saw. I sat at dinner thinking,
“why would anyone do that?”

The honor code violations of Bush sup-
porters aren’t just limited to this campus,
however: in recent weeks, the 527 group
“Swift Boat Veterans for Truth” has released
several ads questioning John Kerry’s war
record.

Forget the fact that John Kerry signed up
for service (and won a few medals) while
Papa Bush got Dubya into the Air National
Guard. John Kerry is now aliar because he’s
not sure whether or not he was in Cambodia

during Christmas, 1968. All of the other
claims made by the Swift Boat group have

been refuted by sites like mediamatters.org,
while papers like the New York Times have '

dug up the quite obvious connections be-
tween the Swift Boat group, Bush aides (like
Karl Rove), and Bush himself.

Republicans
Breaking the .
Honor Code

On top of all of this, John O’ Neill, the
founder of the group and author of the book
Unfit for Command, has been thoroughly
discredited in the mainstream media. _

O’Neill never served with Kerry, but he
was also a Swift Boat crewman in Vietnam
—which forsomereason entitles him to write
abook and start a 527. Hey, it’s a free coun-
try.

O’Neill claims in his book that John
Kerry couldn’t have been in Cambodia for
amultitude of reasons, while supporting his

1

claims by saying that he was never in
Cambodia during the Vietnam War.

Ofcourse, it hurts your credibility just
a bit when there’s video footage of you
telling President Nixon something com-
pletely opposite of what you say in your
book — and O’ Neill did just that in 1971
when he said thathe himself was in Cam-
bodia during ‘Nam.

Interestingly, O’ Neill was a buddy of
the Nixoncamp, and Tricky Dick wanted .
to use O’ Neill as the youthful conserva-
tive foil to John Kerry after the future
senator started protesting the war.

Since we left Davidson, the political
discourse in the country has been limited
to talking about same-sex marriage and
Kerry’s medals.

Instead, Bush (and the media) should
start talking about why he’s the best man
for the job, instead of focusing on John
Kerry’s decorations. If he doesn’t start
doing that soon, it will serve to demon-
strate what I’ve known all along: there
are no good reasons to keep Bush in of-
fice.
