8 THe DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 17, 2004

The Strokes provides music with attitude

By Curis SCHMADER
Staff Writer

The best live bands are two-faced, like the
Roman god Janus. They present one aspect of
their sound on record while saving another for
their live shows. TV on the Radio, a band that
played recently in Greensboro, has just such a
split personality. :

Their music, which sounds meticulously
crafted and produced their studio albums, is
looser and harder rocking in person. When TV
on the Radio perform, they’ re not afraid to put
a dramatic spin on any given song in their rep-
ertoire.

At the opposite end of the spectrum from
‘TV on the Radio lie fellow New. Yorkers the
Strokes, who played at the Grady Cole Center
in Charlotte on Saturday night. The Strokes are
no Janus, so fans and curiosity seekers
shouldn’t attend one of their shows expecting
to hear radical twists on the tightly wound
grooves that have earned the band its follow-
ing. The thrill of Saturday’s show—and any
other Strokes show, for that matter—stemmed
from the band’s precision and technical bril-
liance. In these respects, they are a marvel.

Playing all the songs from their debut album
“Is This It” and nearly every song from their
sophomore release “Room On Fire,” as well as
the non-album track “New York City Cops”
and a Clash cover, the Strokes didn’t leave a
single note out of place. They stopped and

started on a dime, their most intricate guitar
breaks sounded just as sharp live as on their
albums, and they proved that they have one of
the hardest-driving rhythm sections in rock and
roll.

Which is to say, the Strokes rocked. And

despite the band’s frequent affectation ofa take-_

it-or-leave-it, devil-may-care attitude in their
lyrics and media appearances, they put blood
and sweat into every minute of Saturday’s
show.

Singer Julian Casablancas may have sounded
jaded and ennui-stricken when he addressed
the audience between songs on Saturday night
(“So what do you people do around here, go to
f—ing college or somethin’ ?’’), but by the end
of the show his voice was cracking from the
strain of a performance that was simultaneously
fierce and disaffected. Who knew how much
effort it took to make a lines like “Can’t you
see I’m trying/ I don’t even like it” sound con-
vincing?

Most of the band either matched or exceeded
Casablancas’ intensity. Albert Hammond, Jr.
and Nick Valensi played their interlocking
guitar parts with infectious zeal, and Fabrizio
Moretti was absorbed in his propulsive drum-
ming. Only bassist Nikolai Fraiture looked less
than enthusiastic, and he often seemed more
dazed than anything else.

During the best moments of the show, the
Strokes were fully deserving of their rabid
fanbase—even if many of the shreiking teen-

a ee

age girls in the audience were less concerned
with the music than with the group’s bohemian
boy-band image. These were moments when
the band’s New Yawk-pretty boy posturing fell
by the wayside. When everyone stopped short
so that Valensi could launch into the flawless

Pulitzer-winner Cunningham to visit Davidson

By Lauren Law
Staff Writer

When Michael Cunningham was fifteen, his

secret crush tossed him Virginia Woolfe’s
“Mrs. Dalloway” and said, ““Why don’t you
read this and try to be less stupid.” Even during
his adolescence, he remembers being amazed
at Woolf’s ability to manipulate language in
the same way that Jimi Hendrix manipulated a
guitar. ;
In speaking of Woolf’s novel, Cunningham
says, “’Mrs. Dalloway’ made me into a reader,
it was only a matter of time until I became a
writer.”

Itseems appropriate that Cunningham’ s third
novel and 1999 Pulitzer Prize winner, ‘The
Hours’, is an homage to the novel and the au-
thor that prompted his love for and pursuit of
the written word. ,

Cunningham grew up in Cincinnati, OH
before pursuing a bachelor’s degree in English
literature from Stanford University. He went
from there to the University of lowa, where he
earned an M.F.A.

Since that time, Cunningham has published
four novels, three of which include his 1990
debut “A Home at the End of the World,” fol-
lowed by “Flesh and Blood” in 1995, and his
1998 national bestseller “The Hours.”
Cunningham now instructs writing at Colum-
bia University and Brooklyn College.

“The Hours,” an improvisation of “Mrs.
Dalloway,” consists of three intertwined no-
vellas that recount a day in the life of women

whoare connected to Woolf's novel (the work- ©

ing title of which was “The Hours”).

The novel opens with Woolf on the day that
she began writing the novel in London. From
there, it describes a day in the life of Clarissa
Vaughn, Cuhningham’s 1990’s adaptation of
the character Mrs. Dalloway, whose culture and
time period allow her to do many things
Woolf’s Dalloway could not pursue, such as a
career and homosexuality. The final tale ex-
cerpts a day from the life of Laura Brown, a
wife and mother in 1949 Los Angeles, who is
reading Mrs. Dalloway while inadvertently
nearing suicide.

The novel begins with Woolf’s own act of
suicide, and moves backward and forward in
time from that point. December 2002 marked
the release of the major motion picture based
on this novel, starring Meryl Streep, Julianne
Moore, and Nicole Kidman.

Dr. Suzanne Churchill taught “The Hours”

for her English Senior Colloquium module and
is teaching the novel this semester in her Lit-
erary Analysis class. Churchill holds that what
makes his work compelling is his deep under-
standing of individual characters and their in-
ner lives. ~

However, Churchill asserts that these inner
lives are, “by no means an isolated interior. He
portrays people satisfying that need for inti-
macy through unconventional channels... His
worlds are peopled with complicated individu-
als who are involved with each other through
convoluted entanglements, and yet it is those
entanglements that also sustain them.”

Cunningham is Davidson’s second annual
Joel Conarroe Lecturer. This lectureship hon-
ors Davidson alum Joel Conarroe ’56 by fea-
turing acelebrated author oncampus toenhance
the student’s literary experience through read-
ings and seminars.

After his graduation from Davidson, .

Conarroe returned for one semester as a guest
professor and received an Honorary Doctor of
Letters degree. He served for seventeen years
as the president of the John Simon Guggenheim
Memorial Foundation, a scholarship organi-
zation based on merit and creativity in humani-
ties, arts and sciences.

He also acted as chair of the English depart-
ment and Dean of Arts and Sciences at the
University of Pennsylvania, as well as the ex-
ecutive director-of the Modern Language As-
sociation. ;

Currently, he is president of the PEN

Cunningham, author of ‘The Hours’

America Center, an association of writers who
promote national literacy, the right to free ex-
pression and the enjoyment of reading contem-
porary literature.

Connarroe is recognized as both a writer and
editor of books and essays covering American
poetry and fiction.

In his lifetime, Conarroe has been a mem-
ber of more than twenty literary juries, includ-
ing the Pulitzer Prize jury.

Cunningham will give a presentation next

Monday, Mar. 22, in the Duke Family Perfor-

mance Hall. The lecture begins at 8 p.m., fol-
lowed by a book signing and reception. Tick-
ets are free but mandatory, and are currently
available in the College Union Ticket Office.

Call 704-894-2135 between 10 a.m. and 4
p.m. on weekdays for information.

The Strokes played last Saturday at the Grady

Cole Center.

guitar lick before “Reptilia’””’s chorus, or when
Casablancas dived into the crowd for the final
lines of the set closer “Take It or Leave It,” the
Strokes were ardent enough to transform their
trademark precision into an remarkable per-
formance.

Got Art?

Write for Arts and
Living

Contact
sarobinson or
cahodge.

‘
