NEws

Hubbard, Trappey sworn in
as Washingon steps down

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Addressing: members of SGA with a few final
words, outgoing SGA president Charles Wash-
ington ’04 stepped down from his position last
Thursday, making way for the recently elected
Katharine Hubbard ’05. .

“This organization has been the very defini-
tion of my life,” said Washington. “Iam proud
to leave the SGA an organized, efficient and
effective organization.”

After thanking many individuals that had
helped him over the course of his SGA career,
Washington then proceeded to swear in
Hubbard.

Hubbard then delivered an inaugural address
that focused largely on continuing the efforts
of Washington.

“T hope to continue to press for extending
the pass-fail option along with putting a stu-
dent on the board of trustees,” said Hubbard.

She also stressed flexibility, resolving “to
hear and respond to the demands of students.”

As a first act of business, Hubbard led in a
lighthearted inauguration of new Vice Presi-

dent Francois Trappey ’06.

Having noscheduled speech, Trappey chose
to offer a short, informal address to the audi-
ence. His words centered on a dedication to his
new position.

“We are looking for a focused transition of
office with no vacuum,” Trappey later told the
press.

So far, it appears to have worked.

“It’s been a very smooth transition,” said
Hubbard. “Both Charles and I have the same
mentality towards running the SGA.”

Washington also encouraged a focus of “con-
tinuity” between the new administration and
the last.

“Treally want to see them keep with some of
the things we’ ve been working on,” he said.

Washington plans to remain politically ac-
tive as a student, providing a familiar voice of
wisdom for the new administration.

“I’m not going away,” he said.

Hubbard alsq encouraged outside involve-
ment in the SGA.

“I’m really excited and open to any sugges-
tions,” she said. “Remember, SGA meetings
are always open to the public.”

SGA accomplishes five out
of six of last year’s goals

By Les._iz HEMPSON
Senior Staff Writer

Newly-elected SGA president Katharine
Hubbard ’05 reported that she was in the pro-
cess of setting goals for next year, while out-
going president Charles Washington ’04 said
that his administration had accomplished five
of its six major goals for the year.

Hubbard said that she has a number of ini-
tiatives in mind, including increasing the num-
ber of computers and printers in the Union,
getting a student on the Board of Trustees, and
following up on current efforts to extend the
pass/fail deadline and install cable in every
dorm room.

During the remaining months of the semes-
ter, Hubbard will support a collaborative
project at the Lake Campus with other student

. organizations, suchas UCA, Union Board, and
PCC. The proposal stems from the work of the
Rides Committee.

Rhett Merrill ’04, SGA Treasurer, explained
that organizers were considering a four-week
program in April consisting of concerts, intra-
mural sports, and open access to sailboats, ca-
noes, and kayaks.

Funding for the venture will have to come
from the SGA through the Activities Tax Coun-
cil, and possible cosponsorships with the Union
Board.

In future years, money might come from the
Improve Davidson Fund, a $10,000. account
created to fund “unique ideas that contribute
toimproving student life overall.” The account
was established one-and-a-half years ago.

Hubbard also plans to focus on increasing
student participation in SGA. She said thatSGA
meetings and committees are open to all stu-
dents, not just SGA members.

According to Washington, SGA has made

great strides towards achieving its only unfin-
ished goal, the extension of tht pass/fail dead-
line.

SGA submitted a resolution advocating an
altered pass/fail policy to the Educational
Policy Committee that considered the resolu-
tion at a recent meeting.

Washington said, “I actually sat in on that
meeting, and they talked about [the resolution].
As far as I could tell, they weren’t opposed to
it, and I felt like some of the members kind of

thought it was a good idea.

He added, “I think that that’s something that
could be accomplished by the end of the se-
mester, although it wouldn’t take effect until
next semester.”

Washington said that SGA expanded

CatCard use off-campus, worked out an agree-
mentto keep Belk Computer Lab open 24 hours
a day, and-improved its communication with

. the student body by establishing an SGA e-mail

account. ;
Washington is particularly proud of SGA’s

efforts to strengthen school spirit. He men-

tioned that SGA hosted a screening of the first

men’s basketball game of the season in the 900

Room.

The SGA also chartered buses to the
Davidson-Chapel Hill men’s basketball game
and e-mailed the fight-song and alma mater to
all students. :

“T think that that’s one [goal] we’ve done

great with,” Washington said. “Ithinkrightnow, .

we have a level of school spirit that’s uncom-
mon to Davidson College.”

Merrill reported that SGA has used roughly .

half of its $12,900 budget for this fiscal year
that ends at the conclusion of the semester.

Since SGA spending usually increases in the
spring, Merrill expects the projected budget to
be “right on target.”

Proposal for later

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2004 3

spring break passes

Final decision now lies
with faculty board

By SARAH ROBINSON
Arts and Living Editor

In recent SGA meetings, debate has been
raised over whether to push Spring Break back.
The SGA voted in support of suggesting that
the break be a week later for the 2005-06 school
year.

The suggestion will now go to the faculty
board that will decide whether changing the
break would be beneficial. New changes to the
calendars will not affect students fora year after
a new motion has passed.

Registrar Dr. Hansford Epes ’61 explained
that the week is a “mid-semester break” in the
middle of the term rather than in the spring.

“Shortening the second half by a week,
making the second half six and a half weeks
long instead of seven and a half weeks long,
wouldn’t help that wearying intensity at all,”
said Epes.

For some students, the placement of break
does not matter so much because there still
would be a crunch time.

Graham Honeycutt ’06 said, “The only real
thing that I wish is that teachers would realize
that all teachers put a test, paper, or midterm
on the week before spring break and spread
out their syllabus to take this into consider-
ation.”

Others see the downside of not being able to
enjoy warm weather while on break.

Hanley Smith ’07 said, “I do feel that spring
break is a tad early, especially because the
weather doesn’t allow for much vacation and
timing doesn’t coincide with the breaks of many
friends.”

Nevertheless, with this year’s spring break
approaching, some students have chosen to
spend their free time going around the United
States helping different charities.

The alternative breaks program offers stu-
dents opportunities to help the community and
gain real experience dealing with real issues.

This year, there are-five alternative breaks
that will be lead by student leaders. The trips
will take students to New Orleans, Immokalee,
Soddy Daisy, Bridgeton, and Nashville.

Caitlin Kiley ’06 and Connor Mooney ’06
will lead students to New Orleans, where they
will work in an AIDS clinic. They will help
provide entertainment for the patients, as well
as performing several maintenance jobs on site.

Kiley hopes that the experience will “in-
crease empathy for those with the illness and
other terminal illnesses, and learning about
oneself, others, and little bit of New Orleans
culture!”

Kendal Stewart ’06 and Adam Gerstenmier
’05 will lead their group to Immokalee, Florida.
They will live in a homeless shelter called
Friendship House and will help plan activities
for children who come in after school.

Stewart, who participated on the same trip
last year, said that she “look[s] forward to in-
teracting with the Hispanic community by
volunteering for Immokalee Non-for-Profit
Housing.”

ARGENTINA
AUSTRALIA
CHILE
COSTA RICA
CUBA
ENGLAND
MEXICO
NEW ZEALAND —
NORTHERN IRELAND
REPUBLIC OF IRELAND
“SCOTLAND

Thursday, February 26
11:00 am—1:00 pm
Student Information Tabie
Outside North Entrance to
Chambers

inclement Weather Location
Union Near Bookstore

Meet our representative
Steve Seaworth .

Outstanding services and
university programs

Housing, excursions, transcripts,
and much more included.
Internships and scholarships
available.

