THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 3

ATC allocates money _
for one-time expenditures.

Charter for new literary magazine also approved

By HANNAH Rocers-GANTER
Staff Writer

The agenda of last Thursday night’s SGA
meeting consisted mainly of Activities Tax
Council (ATC) allocations and the Woodrow
publication charter.

The ATC reviewed the 2004 fall equipment
allocations.

The ATC is the subcommittee of the SGA
responsible for allocating the student activi-
ties tax among student organizations on cam-
pus.

The tax is one percent of student tuition.

This fall, the Pre-Vet Society, Bioethics So-
ciety, Davidson Outdoors, Club Roller Hockey,
the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee Folk (DUFF),
Men’s Club Lacrosse, the Asian Culture and
Awareness Association (ACAA), the Honor
Council, and The Davidsonian all received
money from the ATC.

The money given to these groups is for spe-
cific uses designated by each club.

Conflicts over the allocation of funds were
minimal because the beginning budget for this
fall was approximately double the usual
amount.

The remaining balance is $49,741.70 and
this is after giving away most of the money
that the organizations requested.

The ATC currently has no plans for the re-
maining money.

“We currently have a request from the Crew
team and are always taking funding requests
from new organizations like Woodrow that was
chartered on Thursday night as well,” said ATC
chair Adam Gerstenmeir ’05.

Gerstenmerir said that the funds that are not
allocated “will be rolled over into spring allo-
cations that take place in April. That is where
we allocate annual budgets for every single stu-
dent organization.”

Anew Davidson publication caled Woodrow
also received its charter.

Woodrow will contain mostly nonfiction
work concerning the Davidson community and
at least one work of fiction, poems, and/or pos-
sibly sketches.

Ward Long ’06 and David Saint ’05 presented
the concept behind “Woodrow,” named after
Davidson’s most famous dropout, Woodrow
Wilson.

“Woodrow will bring an entirely different
approach to idea creation and writing,” said
Saint. “It will encourage anyone on Davidson’s
campus to bring their ideas and not to fear that
embarrassing feeling when an idea isn’t so
good. We think you need that kind of environ-
ment to take risks and create.

“Woodrow will serve in that capacity through
the medium of well-written works, both non-
fiction and literary, and will enrich our experi-
ences here. Plus, it’Il be so much fun,” he con-
tinued.

President of SGA Katherine Hubbard agreed
with the decision to grant the charter.

“T think the Woodrow publication is a great
idea. | am always in favor of creating new
outlets for Davidson ideas and voices to be
heard,” she said. “I like the all-encompassing
ideals that Woodrow seeks to fulfill in which
fiction and non-fiction can be submitted and
students and faculty are encouraged to write
pieces.”

Other topics of discourse included details of
last weekend’s SGA retreat and the trustees that
are arriving this coming week.

The trustees will be coming this next Friday
for a luncheon and a meeting, and members of
SGA will be serving as a welcoming commit-
tee.

The SGA’s spirit committee also brought up
the idea of changing the graphic of the Davidson
Wildcat logo.

(Gten & Jerry's Insenn’ thing, De 008

202 South Main St. Davidson, NC.
| 704-892-0604

. out there and hosting events,

DCC, from page 1
pus,” but unfortunately never really functioned.

Last year, Tiffany Hollis ’04 served as the
chair of COMA as well as the head of a corre-
sponding SGA committee.

Under Hollis, the club focused primarily on
its status as a diversity organization as opposed
to a part of SGA.

SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05 said,
“Tiffany did a great job getting COMA’s name
” but also ac-

knowledged that the organization was ina sense
separated from SGA.

The new DCC constitution states that the
group has a three-fold mission: to “offer assis-
tance, provide a forum, and promote alliance”
among the clubs that represent minority stu-
dents and support diversity on campus.

Presently, Davidson’s minority clubs encom-
pass race, religion, gender, and physical dis-
ability.

The DCC’s network will include all pre-
existing organizations that are presently ap-
proved by the Activities Tax Council (ATC).

“We focus so much on what we lack that we

don’trealize what we have on campus. DCC is

not trying to do additional things, we are just
trying to supplement what we already have by
filling in the gaps,” said Kawabata.

“We are not telling groups what they should
be doing, we are just facilitating communica-
tion,” said executive board member and DCC
secretary Sian Jones ’05.

Inaddition to the executive board, which will

_ oversee operations, the DCC will also include

a non-voting advisory board consisting of 10
students who will serve to add insightful input
during committee meetings.

The remainder of the organization will con-
sist of a body of representatives from each club
under the DCC.

“Clubs can come to meetings and share their
concerns and experiences with a larger group
of sympathetic people. Ithelps to inform people
about what you have to say,” said Jones.

President of the Chronically II] and Disabled
Student Association (CDSA) Lauren Stutts ’05
recognized these advantages, even though her
organization is not currently receiving funds
from the ATC.

“By serving as a representative on the DCC
Advisory Board, I can make my organization
aware about the activities and issues of other
minority organizations as well as share any
ideas that my organization has with the other
groups,” Stutts said.

In addition to promoting contact among
clubs, the DCC will serve as acommunication
hub for all members of the Davidson commu-
nity including the Admissions Office, the ad-
ministration, and those students who are not
associated with a minority or diversity club on
campus.

Having already conducted interviews with
individual students on campus, the executive
board emphasizes the importance of one-on-
one conversation when necessary.

Kawabata invited students to correspond
with the DCC directly.

A number of students expressed the need for
communication that the DCC hopes to encour-
age.

Carrie Levy ’05, a member of the both the
Jewish Student Union (JSU) and the CDSA,
has experienced a lack of contact between
minority groups on campus.

Levy noted a distinction between clubs that
address race, religion, gender, and physical dis-
ability.

“No one is even sure who is classified as a
minority. We don’t know who’s under each
heading,” she said.

Susan Bean ’06, who was involved in
COMA, insists that a well-coordinated orga-
nization with a mission like that of DCC will
benefit the entire community.

“It’s easy tojust assume that we all face stress
here and assume that those stresses are equal
for everyone. However, I have become slowly
more aware that it honestly is much harder to
be a minority student here,” she said. “I’ve
never ever been in that position and | bet a
number of students here would say the same
thing. I wish we could all make time to listen
to the students who do face that struggle talk
about it.”

Other members of the executive board of
DCC include Vice-Chair Erin Stephens ’05
and Public Relations officer Faris Al Mazrui
°07.

COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

SCHOOL OF INTERNATIONAL AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS
THE EARTH INSTITUTE AT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY

The Master of Public
Administration Program in
Environmental Science

and Policy combines Columbia
University’s hands-on

approach to teaching public
policy and administration with

pioneering thinking about the

Earn your MPA in Environmental
Science and Policy

environment. This twelve-month

program takes place at Columbia

University’s New York campuses.

For more information, please call 212-854-3142, |

e-mail: lar46@columbia.edu, or visit our Web site.

Application deadline for early decision: November 1

www.columbia.edu/cu/mpaenvironment

