THE DAVIDSONIAN

Men’s Basketball this week:

SPORTS

from McCrory, page 12

the Blue Devils figured out, as he has aver-
aged 18.5 points-per-game in the past two
games against Duke, including 23 in his first-
ever collegiate game against the Blue Devils
in 2002. Davidson must ‘get the ball down low
to the combination of Logan Kosmalski’’05,
Conor Grace ’05 and Johnson to keep the de-
fense honest and pick up easy buckets inside.

Keep the ball in Dockery’s hands:

Duke lost four-year starter Chris Duhon to
the NBA last year, and their projected starter
for this season, Shaun Livingston, went
straight to the pros out of high school and was
drafted fourth by the Los Angeles Clippers.
As a result, junior Sean Dockery takes control
of the Duke offense this year, and appears to
be the weak link in the starting five. Dockery
was a McDonald’s All-American out of Chi-
cago, but his handle is shaky and his shooting
even worse; he has a career 1.5:1 assist-to-turn-
over ratio, and was just 3 of 25 on three-point-
ers last season. Duke’s other perimeter play-
ers, Daniel Ewing and J.J. Redick, can light it
up from outside, so Davidson must force
Dockery to be the playmaker in the backcourt.

Put Shelden on the bench:

The Duke forward averaged nearly a double-
double last season, and was a beast on the
blocks for the Devils when he was in the game.
Williams has had a problem with foul trouble
in the past, though, and is often limited to long
stretches on the bench. Duke is relatively thin
inside this year with the losses of Luol Deng
and Nick Horvath, and Shavlick Randolph is
the only other returning frontcourt player for
Duke. Randolph has shown flashes of. bril-

liance to reflect his high school hype, when .

he was a prep phenom at Broughton in Ra-
leigh and the No. 1-ranked recruit in the na-

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004 1B

tion, but he averaged only seven points-per-
game in a reserve role last season. If Davidson
can force Williams to the bench, they will be
able to exploit a tremendous size advantage
with Johnson, Kosmalski and Grace, and the
guards will find room to penetrate in the lane.

Control Coach K:

Krzyzewski is famous for controlling the
refs, especially in ACC country. This may be
a home game for the Wildcats, but Coach K

In all reality, it will take at
least a small miracle for
Davidson to stay close,
but Davidson does have a
much better shot of hang-
ing with Duke in this
year’s rematch.

will try to get the refs on his side from the
opening tip. Coach McKillop must fight for
his players at every opportunity and prevent
Krzyzewski from controlling the stripes.

Make it a home-court advantage:

To accommodate more fans, Davidson will
“host” the game at the nearby Charlotte Coli-
seum. Last year when the Wildcats hosted the
North Carolina Tar Heels in Charlotte, the
Coliseum was largely a Tar Heel contingent,
and felt much more like a road game than a
home contest for the ’Cats. Davidson will not
face the crazy atmosphere of Cameron Indoor
this year, but it will need the support of its
fans to create any kind of advantage in this
“home” game.

HOLIDAY FOOD DRIVE

From right now until December 21st, the
Library is having a campus wide food drive
for items to be given to the needy in our area.

and "Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus!"
*YOU MAY ALSO CANCEL YOUR LIBRARY FINES

WITH DONATIONS OF FOOD *

REMEMBER, PLEASE, WE ARE-FEEDING FAMILIES.
NO SINGLE SERVING/SMALL ITEMS. SUGGESTED ITEMS

ASSORTED VEGETABLES, JELLO,
CANNED MEATS, SPAGHETTI,
SOUPS, AND MACARONI

* 6%

HOW: One non-perishable food item will cover up to $1.00 of overdue fines.
(E.G. For 5 items of food, you can pay for $4.50 in fines.)

r; a

WHERE: Library Circulation Desk

