By Bossy DEmMuRO
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s basketball team of
2003-04 was strong, fairly deep, and a per-
fect 13-0 in Belk Arena.

But that was last year.

This year, the ’Cats return four of the five
starters who guided the team to an 11-5 South-
ern Conference finish and the top seed in the
SoCon Tournament, and the Wildcats enter the
new year with hopes of surpassing their semi-
final exit at the hands of eventual champion
East Tennessee State in the tournament last
year.

According to recent polls of SoCon coaches
and the media, as well as a prediction in The
Sporting News, Davidson has been picked to
finish first in the South Division of the South-
ern Conference. Not only that, but Brendan
Winters ’06 has been named to the Preseason
SoCon All-League Team by the coaches after
averaging 17.8 points per game a year ago.

When asked about these high expectations
of the team and Winters, head coach Bob
McKillop said, “The expectations are a state-
ment about the success the program has en-
joyed.” ;

The ’Cats are well aware of the outlook here
prior to the season, which begins Nov. 19 at
the University of Missouri, but these predic-
tions have not changed the focus of the play-
ers.

“The team has expectations of itself that
exceed those presented by others, including
the media, fans, and alumni,” says McKillop.

“The Conference Championship runs
through Johnson City”
Last year, even though Davidson entered the

Nov. 19, at Missouri, 8:00 p.m.

The ’Cats open the regular season in Co-
lumbia against Quin Snyder and the Tigers of
Mizzou. The Tigers are a perennial contender
in the Big 12, but had a down year last year
when they failed to qualify for the NCAA tour-
nament and lost to Michigan in the NIT. Mis-
souri will also visit Belk Arena next year as
part of this two year home-and-home series.

Nov. 22, Duke, 7:00 p.m., Charlotte Coli-
seum

In perhaps the biggest non-conference
games of the year, the ’Cats host the in-state
rivals from Durham at the Charlotte Coliseum.
Duke is ranked No. 11 in the preseason AP
poll, and returns a strong group that includes
Daniel Ewing, Shelden Williams and J.J.
Redick, but Davidson will look to avenge a
tough 88-54 loss in Durham from a year ago.
The game will also be televised nationally on
ESPN2, the Wildcats’ only national TV ap-
fpearance scheduled for this year.

Nov. 27, at St. Joseph’s, 7:00 p.m.
Davidson travels to Philadelphia to face the
ea Eight team from a year ago. NBA first-
unders Jameer Nelson and Delonte West are
‘gone, but the Hawks still return a strong squad
under 2004 Coach of the Year Phil Martelli.

| Nov. 30, Georgetown, 7:00 p.m.
| ~The ‘Cats host the Hoyas in one of their
first tests at Belk Arena.

Dec. 4, at Georgia Southern, 7:30 p.m.
Davidson travels down to Statesboro, Ga.
to open conference play against the underrated
aaa of GSU.

Dec. 8, Charlotte, 7:00 p.m.

Davidson hosts the cross-county 49ers of
lotte in Belk Arena. This is the battle for

fine Hornets Nest Trophy, annually given to

SPORTS

Men return strong core group in s

Kenny Grant will look to take full control at
the point guard position for the Wildcats.

tournament 11-5 in conference play and
seeded first out of the South Division, East
Tennessee State was the eventual winner and
qualified for an automatic NCAA Tournament
bid.

Picked to finish first in the North Division
of the conference, the Bucs will again be one
of Davidson’s biggest conference rivals. While
ETSU loses 2004 SoCon Player of the Year

the winner of this rivalry. Charlotte features a
breakout star in Curtis Whithers along with a
supporting cast that led the 49ers to the NCAA
tournament last year.

Dec. 29, Seton Hall, 7:00 p.m.

With the students on break, the "Cats wel-
come 2004 NCAA Tournament participant
Seton Hall to Belk Arena.

Jan. 5, Furman, 7:00 p.m.

The ’Cats’ game against Furman marks their
first home SoCon game of the year. They will
try to keep their impressive home SoCon win-
ning streak alive against the rival Paladins.

Jan. 26, East Tennessee State, 7:00 p.m.

Davidson welcomes the Buccaneers, the
other projected division winner and NCAA
Participant for the past two years, to Belk
Arena. Watch for point guard Tim Smith, who
may actually declare for the NBA draft after
his junior season if he can match his
postseason play from a year ago, when he was
the MVP of the SoCon tournament and nearly
led his team to a victory over No. 4 seeded
Cincinnati in the NCAA tournament.

Feb. 26, Wofford, 7:00 p.m.

The ’Cats host the nearby Terriers in their
SoCon regular season finale in what will serve
as a tune-up for the Wildcats’ run in the con-
ference tournament.

Mar. 2-5, at Chattanooga, Tennessee,
SoCon Tournament

The Southern Conference Tournament, af-
ter being in Charleston for the past two sea-
sons, has moved to Chattanooga for the 2004-
05 season. Here, Davidson will hopefully try
to knock off East Tennessee State and other
conference opponents in their quest for an
NCAA Tournament bid.

Zakee Wadood, the Bucs re-
turn lightning-quick junior
Tim Smith, the 2003-04
SoCon tournament MVP that
is regarded as one of the best
point guards in college bas-
ketball. Smith’s quickness
makes ETSU a threat to run
the ball at every opportunity,
and he can break down the
defense in both the full and
half court sets.

When asked, Coach
McKillop said, “ETSU is
clearly the defending cham-
pion [having won both of the
past two seasons]. There’s no
doubt that the conference
championship runs through
Johnson City [Tennessee,
home of ETSU].”

Not only is ETSU a threat,
but Chattanooga in the North
Division and Georgia South-
ern and the College of
Charleston in the South Di-
vision are also thought of
highly by media and confer-
ence coaches.

Strengths
“We shoot the ball ex-

tremely well,” McKillop said. “We are very
unselfish, we rebound effectively, and play
like a team of defenders. Also, we have a good
basketball IQ.”

The statistics would back much of this up;
last season Davidson shot at a .441 clip, out- -
shooting and out-scoring their opponents. As
a team, Davidson averaged 73.1 points per
game, one of the better marks in the SoCon.

Not only that, but the ’Cats held a +5.2 re-
bound margin over their opponents, indicat-
ing their physicality and height advantages.
Davidson returns the frontcourt of Logan
Kosmalski ’05, Conor Grace ’05 and Ian
Johnson ’06 from a year ago, and should again
dominate thé boards with a deep and experi-
enced group in the post.

On defense, the ’Cats held opponents to a
shooting percentage lower than their own, and
averaged 5.8 steals per game as a team.

Another strength, while not quite as tangible
in the stat sheet, is the home-court advantage
the Wildcats are treated to in Davidson. Last
year, the "Cats were a perfect 13-0 at Belk
Arena, including victories over College of
Charleston and Georgia Southern. Although
this trend may be difficult to continue when
Georgetown and Seton Hall come to town, it
is surely a plus when the ’Cats face off in the
SoCon. Davidson has only lost two SoCon
home games in the past two seasons, includ-
ing the perfect mark last year.

Weaknesses

Weaknesses may be few and far between
for the ’Cats this season, but there are several
areas which need some improvement.

“Athleticism, size, and dribble penetration,”
says Coach McKillop. “That’s about it.”

With the loss of Nick Booker ’04 to gradu-
ation, the Wildcats are without one of their
most athletic presences on both the offensive .
and defensive end from a year ago. Size may
be an issue against the likes of Duke and Mis-
souri, but the Wildcats still sport one of the
deepest front-court rotations in the Southern ©
Conference.

Dribble penetration is another weakness
outlined by Coach McKillop, although, with
the return of quality guards like Winters,
Kenny Grant ’06 and Matt McKillop ’06, this
issue may be fast-improving. The guards will
also need to do a better job of securing the
ball on the offensive end, as Davidson aver-.
aged 17.3 turnovers per game last season. In
comparison, the Wildcats forced 15 turnovers
per game.

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

earch for a SoCon title

