4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Public Safety, from page 1

He asked his wife to watch the cell phone while
he slept because he worried that he might not
hear it ring if another officer called for assis-
tance.

When asked about Lyon’s statements,
Walker maintained that they were untrue.

While conceding that the cell phone viola-
tion might have hastened Lyon’s departure,
Walker said, “You will never have one reason
for a termination.”

“T think that [Lyon’s departure] was a joint
decision,” Walker added. “If you’re working
in an environment that is not conducive to who
you are, you probably don’t need to be there.”

Walker refused to comment further, citing
the College’s policy of keeping personnel de-
cisions confidential. —

Sorensen also declined tocomment. He said
that Davidson officials do not talk about per-
sonnel decisions out of a desire to “protect the
privacy” of the individuals involved.

When asked whether the College would
comment if the terminated employee volun-
tarily waved his right to privacy, Sorensen said,
“T think that things happened in [the Lyon]
relationship that aren’t easy to understand
outside of it. So discussing it in a public forum
doesn’tlend anything further to the discussion.”

Dean of Students Tom Shandley said that a
law prohibited the College from speaking pub-
licly about the reasons for an employee’s de-
parture.

Shandley could not remember the name of

News

the law, and Sorensen could-not be reached for
clarification.

Other Terminations

Two other Public Safety employees have left
the department, apparently involuntarily, since
last April.

Most recently, Sergeant Dane Laney left
Public Safety on January 12.

Laney said that he had been an employee of
the College for 14 years but declined to dis-
cuss his resignation in detail until at least next
semester.

Laney noted that before January 12, he had
planned to continue with the department for
another ten years and added that he “probably
[had] a lot to say” about the circumstances
surrounding his departure. '

Former Director Sam McKelvey officially
resigned just before Commencement last May
but said that he had essentially vacated his
position sometime towards the end of April.

Lyon said that McKelvey was “asked to re-
sign.”

The College made another change in its
Public Safety department right around the time
that McKelvey unofficially left his position and
administrators began their search for a new
Director.

In adocument revised on April 27, 2003, the
College modified its education requirements
for the Director of Public Safety position.

According to the previous education require-
ments, which were revised on July 21, 1999,

the eventual Director must possess a
“Bachelor’s Degree in criminal justice or al-
lied field.”

The April 2003 requirements dictated only
that the Director possess a “post-secondary
degree in criminal justice or allied field.”

Both Shandley and Sorensen said that there
was ne particular reason for this change.

Sorensen explained, “When we think about
who we wantin the applicant pool, we will often
change the education and experience require-
ments to make sure we don’t exclude someone
who might be very capable.”

Shandley agreed.

“Each time you open up any position, par-
ticularly at the Director’s level, you reevaluate
what you’re looking for,” he said.

Walker, who was promoted to Director in
June, has an Associate’s Degree in Criminal
Justice from Stanly Community College and
expects to graduate from Gardner-Webb Uni-
versity in spring 2006.

Cornelius Police Department

The departures of Lyon, McKelvey, and
Laney might have left Public Safety under-
staffed.

Walker acknowledged on March 15 that his
department had been understaffed since Au-
gust but attributed this understaffing to bad
luck.

One sergeant could not continue working
full-time because of a physical impairment, and
another officer hired by Public Safety last sum-
mer developed an illness in August and could
not complete his basic law enforcement train-
ing.

Since March 15, Walkerhas promoted Sarver
from part-time patrol officer to Assistant Di-
rector. °

Sarver, who began work on Monday, said
that hiring two additional patrol officers would
be his “first priority.”

Based on recent trends, the College might

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7, 2004 -

very well get those officers from the Cornelius
Police Department.

Ron McKinney, Chief of Police for the
Cornelius department, said that six Davidson
employees currently work for or have previ-
ously worked for him in Cornelius.

Public Safety currently employs six full-time
officers and five to six part-time officers, mean-
ing that roughly half of the college’s Public
Safety department has*some affiliation with
Cornelius. .

Walker said on April 6 that he is in the pro-
cess of filling two full-time positions. ~

McKinney said that Walker, Sarver, and re-
cent hiree Laura Spencer have left Cornelius
and work full-time for the College.

Officers Stephen Davis and Reggie Vanzant
work full-time for Cornelius and part-time for
the College.

Sergeant Tim Ramsey is employed full-time
by Public Safety but also works part-time for
Cornelius.

Walker confirmed that Spencer, Davis, and
Vanzant were his department’s newest hirees.

He added that Public Safety also employs
two officers from both the Charlotte
Mecklenburg and Town of Davidson police
departments and one officer from the Iredell
Police Department.

According to Walker, since most police of-
ficers do not make very much money, they often
work for more than one department. The offic-
ers at area departments, such as Cornelius and
Iredell, tend to work shifts similar to those
worked by officers at the College, so they are
natural candidates to fill in whenever there is
a hole in the Public Safety schedule.

Shandley referred all staffing questions to
Walker but said that based on his understand-
ing, even though Public Safety had employ-
ment vacancies, it was not understaffed. He
explained that although Public Safety was hir-
ing, it had enough full- and part-time person-
nel to do its job.

The March for Women's Lives on April 25, 2004, promises to be the largest publi

femonstration in support of repre ductive

freedom in history. If you

It's not too late fo sign up to march with the
DAVIDSON COLLEGE DELEGATION !
E-mail Lafilosa@davidson.edu
for more information, to sign up,

Or help with carpooling or lodging.

A

CH

FOR WOMEN'S LIVES

PR MarR ad

/ the Reproduc

tive Rights Alliance at Davidson

VASHINGTON, DC

* APRIL 25, 200<

