WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

Photo courtesy of NYT.com

Davidson contributed to hurricane relief efforts after four hurricanes

struck the Atlantic coast.

Students, faculty take part
in hurricane relief efforts

By Kate GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Four hurricanes have struck the Atlantic
coast within the past five weeks, causing bil-
lions of dollars of damage and the evacuation
of millions of residents of Florida and surround-
ing areas.

For Davidson students and staff who come
from the southeastern United States, the hur-
ricanes have hit close tohome and caused prob-
lems for family and friends.

No state has been hit by four hurricanes so
quickly since Texas in 1886.

Hurricane Charley reached southwest
Florida on August 3 and was followed by
Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne, which hit last Sun-
day.

The storms were blamed for at least 70 deaths
in Florida.

Alex Wales ’08 was still living in his home-
town of Lake Alfred, Florida when Hurricape
Charley struck.

“My friend, who lives in a mobile home,

|’ evacuated the night of Charley,” Wales

said.“‘When she returned home, she had to
climb through a garage that had been depos-
ited in her lawn to get to her home. After the
next storm, she returned to find her neighbor’s
entire house two lots down the road.”

Wales’ family is in the antique furniture
business, and they worried that the flooding
from the hurricane would.damage the wood.
Their showrooms and warehouses all had tin
roofs, which created another concern. ;

“When Charley swept through, we heard a
gut-wrenching sound similar to a giant zipper
coming undone,” Wales said. “More than 50
feet of tin and the insulation and furring strips
and two-by-fours underneath had just been
peeled off the roof of one of the showrooms.”

Although Wales said the extent of the dam-
age is still'unknown, he did his part to help the
relief effort. . ,

“T spent the night with the local police clear-
ing trees and downed power lines from the road
and setting construction and road signs. back
into place,” Wales said. “Come morning, my
father and I slapped on a new roof for the an-
tique store; then we set about drying the carpet
as best we could. Two days later, the ranch was
restored to relative normalcy.”

Laura Webb ’08 had a surprise visit from
her parents and their pets on September 11 after
herhometown of Key West, Florida was evacu-
ated.
They stayed in Davidson for a day, but the
hurricane ended up missing Key West.

“The hurricane passed through west of us,
hit the northern area of western Florida, and
headed for Louisiana,” Webb said. “My cousin
goes to school in Tulane, and the entire school
was evacuated. It didn’t hit as hard as expected,
but it really disrupted my family since three
members of it were evacuated.”

Webb’s parents drove to Maryland after leav-
ing Davidson to make sure that the hurricane
wouldn’t veer back in their direction.

“They drove through all of the destruction
from the previous hurricanes,” Webb said. “The
trees were flattened, and everything was a
mess.”

College Communications Assistant John
Syme drove 1500 miles in five days to reach
his mother’s beach house in Orange Beach,
Alabama. ;

His mother lives:in Dekalb, Mississippi, and
Hurricane Ivan struck both towns.

“Her house is on stilts, and no space was
finished under the house so all that was trashed,”
Syme said. “Every yrs on the house and all
the siding came off. There were boats in
people’s yards that didn’t own boats.”

Although Syme traveled to Alabama to help
with the recovery, there was not much to do
since relief efforts were not yet in place.

“TE was packing to go down the night before,
and I found some things I wanted to take to
Goodwill so I put them in a bag and took them
with me,” Syme said. “I took canned goods
from my pantry and thought about sending an

- email to Davidson students. I’m glad I didn’t

because right now people are focused on eat-

‘ing and staying dry.”

On campus, Davidson students did their part
to help victims of the hurricanes.

Connor House, Kappa Alpha, and Sigma
Alpha Epsilon collaborated to collect money
for the Red Cross. Students could use their Cat
Cards to make donations in the Union from
September 13 to 17.

“We decided to participate because KA is
‘always looking for ways to help out the com-
munity, locally with our KArnival, nationally
with our Muscular Dystrophy fundraisers, and
whenever else we determine aneed exists,” said
KA president Andrew Devlin ’05. “The broth-
ers in our house are extremely dedicated, like
all Davidson students, to assisting people in
need.”

Although the student response in the
fundraising was not overwhelming, Devlin was
pleased with the results,

“We are going to be in contact with the Red
Cross over the next couple of weeks and will

help in whatever way they ask,” Devlin said.

Cam pus Police Blottet

Campus police reported no crimes over the past week.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
' anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

