THE DAVIDSONIAN

Sect

“have yet to see one thing ab
arrive Charlotte Bobcats, who will Gaia
have the coolest j jerseys in the NBA next
season. Sure, the school year is over, and
this column is like telling Grady Little he
should have pulled ee little too
late. oe

Well, you people should have written
more this year. They call it the dog days of
summer for a reason, so you all (not y’ all)
will probably be missing your teams come
the fall and will have lots to say. I look for-
ward to reading it.

SPORTS

from Track, page 20

clocked a 42.66 for third place. The 42.66 was

the fastest time run by a Davidson squad since:

1970.

Both the men and women’s 4x400 teams
won their respective races. The women’s team
was comprised of Kate Wilson/’04, Hilary
Leister 06, Griffith, and Martin. Thé squad
blew the competition out of the water, win-
ning the race by more than ten seconds with a
time of 4:11.16.

The men’s 4x400 team not only won their
race, but they also set a school record. The
relay team of Pratt, Bialas, Scott and Ritchie
ran the race in 3:20.93. The members of this
team showed real guts and determination in
finishing the race despite a minor uniform
malfunction.

Not to be forgotten are the Davidson
throwers. McKensy Gruelle ’04 tossed the
javelin 31.83 meters, the second farthest in
school history. Not to be outdone, Joseph Tay-
lor ’06 threw his own javelin for 35.92 meters.
Michael Anselmo ’06 launched the discus
29. 73 meters, his best throw of the season.

from ’ Cats, page 16

Thank you, everyone who has picked up
the paper this year (especially those who took
the time to complain, correct, or even com-
pliment), for reading. Peter and I are leaving
it in good hands, so keep on turning to the
back page.

More importantly, thanks to all the people
who have filled up the pages. Thanks to Ri-
chard for showing me how it’s done and, most
importantly, to my esteemed co-editor Peter
for the countless hours he couldn’t afford to
spend déing this every week but put in any-
way.

And — forgive me but it wouldn’t feel right
otherwise — thanks Mom, you know why.

f 2004
Company

Show your Davidson ID
to receive a free
20 oz SOFTDRINK or
SMALL GOURMET COFFEE
with the purchase of
a full sandwich,
regular salad or
half & half combo!
(offer expires May 21st, 2004)

9705-A Sam Furr Rd. Huntersville, NC
Exit 25 off 77 in the Target Shopping Center
(next to Blockbuster Video)

: 704-987-8190
Monday-Saturday 7:30-9:00
Sunday 9:00-5:00

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 2004

17

\ Jake Charlson

, Sprinters John Bialas ’07, Dave Ritchie ’07, Andrew Pratt 04, and
~ Greg Scott ’04 celebrate their victory and new school record.

4x400 team sets school
» record in Belk Invitational

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

You may have caught the ad in The Crier
last fall: “I lost my Texas Longhorns jacket
last week. If you’ve seen it...” This single-
handedly epitomizes David Ritchie in the fall.

Ritchie, the 64” freshman from Austin, is
probably best known around campus for his
affinity for the Longhorns. Replacing the lost
(and never recovered) jacket with a t-shirt,
you’ ve probably seen Ritchie’s lanky, flimsy
body traversing from Rich over to Baker in
some sort of Texas attire.

Most likely, you’ve seen him practicing
agilities or starts on the track as you read
Milton on the Union patio on a sunny after-
noon. You may have even bumped into him
bumming around the union at night.

But you probably never stopped dead in
your track and asked to yourself, “Who was
that?” like you might have last weekend.

After getting worn out by the Spring Frol-
ics jousting or jello wrestling, maybe you were
walking by the Union during the 4x400-meter
relay of the Irwin Belk Invitational.

The race was pretty close; the first three
Davidson runners, Andrew Pratt ’04, Greg
Scott ’04 and John Bialas ’07, had busted it
out hard, but they still trailed UNC-C by a
couple of steps.

Waiting for the exchange was that Long-
horn guy — that Ritchie kid — with his crazy
curly hair and gangly frame. The UNC guy,
on the other hand, looked pretty jacked, pretty
confident.

Well, Ritchie may have gotten the baton a
couple of steps behind, but he hossed it like
no other — not about to lose the last event of
the day in front of the home fans.

He not only beat that UNC-C guy by a
whole step, but he ran a 47.9 closing leg in
the process. Wondering what the school record
in the open 400m run is? That’d be a 48.46.
And the relay’s time of 3:20.93 broke a school
record set back in 1975.

Scratch that Longhorns stuff. David Ritchie
is a sprinter. That’s his identity now and for-
ever.

“He’s got that ability to dig deep and go
beyond the pain threshold,” said head coach
Gary Andrew about Ritchie’s anchor leg. “(He
was just determined to catch that UNC-C guy.
He was just going to catch him and beat him
and he did.”

Let’s go over these credentials: Ritchie’s
open quarter time of 49.1 is the fastest since
*75 and fourth fastest overall. His 200 time of
22.36 is the fastest since ’78, and his 400
hurdle time of 54.55 ranks him 3rd in the Con-
ference and is tied for 10th fastest all-time at
Davidson. Not to mention he’s a part of a
4x100 relay team, consisting of senior Chris
Rouisse,’04, Pratt, and Bialas, that ran its fast-
est time since ’70.

So how has Ritchie stepped up so fast? It’s
really that for the first time, he’s focusing on

track & field. Playing basketball in high
school, Ritchie was left with only two months
to train for track, while now he’s got eight or
nine.

“We just spent a lot of time getting them
stronger and more fit so they could handle the
rigors of the season and the intensity of the
training sessions,” said sprint coach Pete Loeb.
“I think most of the work was done when they
may not have realized it — back in the fall.”

Ritchie, on the other hand, jumps to give
credit to his coach and teammates.

“Pete [Loeb] just really knows what he’s
doing. He’s just going to make us all so much
bigger and stronger,” commented Ritchie, who
has been running mainly the 400 since sev-
enth grade.

“The upperclassmen have helped a lot. It’s
Division I college racing, and they’re show-
ing you the ropes of what you’re supposed to
do, how you’ re supposed to act,” said Ritchie
of the slew of seniors on the squad. “When
you go to North Carolina — a place you see on
national television — you just need someone
to tell you how to act, because I was scared
[to death] before my first race.”

It’s no surprise, either, that the coaches are
impressed.

“He’s got very good top hand speed and can
handle the lactic acid &ke anyone I’ve basi-
cally ever coached,” said Loeb. “He’s com-
petitive, and sometimes that’s all it takes. That
desire: that helps him a lot. He’ll impact any
race he chooses to run [at Davidson].”

For the meantime, though, all the focus is
on the conference meet, which is held in
Boone this weekend.

Ritchie will be running the 400 hurdles and
will be joining the 4x1 and 4x4 relay efforts.
One key to note, however, is that he will not
be competing in the open quarter, as coaches
didn’t want to spread him too thin.

“That’s literally all I’m thinking about,” said
Ritchie sternly. “I think about the races I’m in
and who I’m running against, but mainly just
resting a bit because [the whole team] knows
we’ll run really fast.”

But Ritchie’s not all about this focus. He’s
quick to point out that he’s just in the middle
of a huge crop of talent. Freshman Cisco
Morales is ranked 7th in the Conference in
the 400 hurdles and Andrew Drysdale ’07,
who Loeb describes as a “burner,” would be
tearing it up if not for an injury — not to men-
tion Bialas, who has been an integral part in
both relays.

“There’s definitely a lot of potential. If we
just keep getting the numbers and potential
each year, we’ll be winning all kinds of all-
conference stuff every year,” said Ritchie.

So check your Davidson homepage this
weekend. See how Ritchie, the sprinters, and
the rest of the track team did at Conference.

Although Ritchie admits he was a bit sur-
prised by his quick success, he’s out and fly-
ing now, and he wants that all-conference spot
real bad.
