THE AVIDGONIAN

potlight on campus buildings: Sophomore
partments designed by noted Iraqi architect

It is common knowledge that for most
sophomores, the experience of living in
the “Sophomore Apartments” is forget-
table. Students complain that the dormi-
tories consisting of Peter Knox, Mary
Irwin Belk, and Akers Residence Halls

The original entrance to Akers
Hall.

have small rooms, are loud, and are lo-
cated far away from the main academic
buildings. But, what is lesser known is
that all three of the identical buildings
were designed by a famous architect.
Daniel Rahim, most renowned for his
design of Saddam Hussein’s Tikrit hide-
~ Jout honed his skills designing buildings

, drainage system for the entire cam-

for Davidson College in the early
1980’s. Beginning in 1979, he de-
signed the interior of Vail Commons,
dedicated in 1981. At the same time,
he planned the entirety of the Knox
and Irwin residence halls, which were
also completed for the school year of
1981. Akers, completed in 1984, was
simply a duplicate of Knox and Irwin.
Rahim finished his work with the col-
lege in 1985, when he designed the

pus.

After his parting with Davidson,
Rahim, whose work has been de-
scribed by numerous architectural ex-
perts as “functional,” brought his tal-
ents to Hollywood where he designed
the sets for several hit movies. When
Saddam Hussein saw his work on
“Teen Wolf Too,” he invited Rahim to
work for him as his head of “special
architectural projects” which included
work on missile proof basements,
nuclear shelters, and of course the in-
famous “spiderhole” Tikrit hideaway.
According to rumor, Rahim was set to
return to Davidson in order to be in
charge of the Belk Residence Hall
renovations, but his plans were de-
stroyed in the Shock and Awe bomb-
ing campaign.

An Irwin room that shares similar
design characteristics with Saddam’s
hideout.

Vampire discovered nesting in fourth Watts

The source of the notorious bat prob-
lem afflicting the infamous Watts Dormi-
tory has been discovered.

Recently, Watts residents have com-
plained publicly of a bat problem for two’
weeks, but they reported that no progress
has been made towards removing the
bats.

Early last week, it was discovered by
Third Watts resident Steve Turner ’07
that the bats were not coming from out-
side the dorm, but from within. As Steve
was climbing the stairwell up to the
fourth floor late one night, he noticed a
figure climbing into the fourth floor ceil-
ing panels. Curious, he climbed up him-
self and peeked through the tiles. Re-
ported Steve: “I saw some caped dude
lowering himself down into a coffin while
singing along to Dispatch’s ‘Bats in the
Belfry.’ There were all these crazy bats
flying around everywhere, and a bunch of
candles. There were also capes lazily
strewn about the room, I could tell he
hadn’t taken his laundry down in a
while.”

As it turned out, the “caped dude” was
actually an enrolled student, who would
only give his name as Vincent ’06. And,
the reason he hadn’t taken his laundry
down in a while was only the tip of the
iceberg in an ongoing battle for Vincent.
“The laundry hours only run during the

_ daytime,” he said, “so how is a vampire
like me supposed to get down there?”
Vincent went on to argue that the school
has not done a very good job in making it-

Vincent at the Warner Hall Semi-
formal.

self vampire-accessible. In order to go to
his classes, Vincent must fly over to
Chambers shortly before dawn, and wait
around for several hours until classes
start.

He can also only take classes in the new
wings of Chambers where the classrooms
have no windows. Moreover, he has dif-
ficulty finding a place to eat. Since the

Union Café closes at 1:00 AM, his dining
hours are severely limited. “A long roost
in the attic of Chambers during the day
can build up quite an appetite,” Vincent
stated, “and it’s frustrating to wake up
only to find that there’s no food available
anywhere on campus.”

Vincent attributes the recent bat at-
tacks to poor allocation of funds by the
faculty. “Bats can eat over 1200 flying in-
sects per hour,” informed Vincent, “but
there clearly are not enough flying insects
around campus for that to happen. Per-
haps if the college spent less money on
new athletic facilities and more on bat
food, the bats would not have to go after
human flesh for nourishment.”

One thing Vincent does like about the
college, though, is the party scene. “On
the weekends it is so easy to find
victims...uh, I mean...friends,” says
Vincent, “but a lot of times their blood is
tainted with alcohol.” Another attractive
feature of Davidson for Vincent is the gen-
eral lack of vampire hunters here, the last
being Blade in the class of 1986. Vincent
explained that he is hoping to major in so-
ciology and that he plans to graduate in
’06, although he’s willing to work for it
even if it takes an eternity. His academic
path has not been without roadblocks
though. “Most of my professors disagree
with my analysis of the human species,”
he reveals. “I think they are looking for
papers with more emphasis on the in-
traspecies relationships rather that the
interspecies ones.” .

Contact the Sefior:

Senor Delecto juvestidalory Services

* Multi - ~lingual

4 * Unmatched knowledge of computers and computer-related technology

* Charming Personality

* No criminal record or outstanding arrest warrants

* Well versed in the latest "hip" styles and lingo

* Strong privacy protection

* Rated #1 Internet Interrogator by Net Detective Quarterly

*Competitive rates!

senor_detecto@yahoo.com or AOL Screen Name Senor Detecto

www.SenorDetecto.tk

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 9

Wabte Mastenlcs Prctenac Bava
Feinberg was sick of all the talk. “All I've

heard since the year began was how ex-

pensive the Union Café is, so I decided to
check it out for myself,” explained

Feinberg. Armed with years of economic

experience and vast amounts of statisti-
eal data, the visiting professor ordered a
grilled chicken sandwich.
Unfortunately for Feinberg, he placed
the order around 6:15 p.m.— right in the
middle of meal plan time. “I waited and
waited. Finally, at precisely 7:42 p.m., I
received the sandwich. The opportunity
cost of lost time alone was well into the

hundreds of British pounds purchased at

EEE ES OL Se IE AS aE BRL 2 CB ALE Mas PS ii aN cad TBE
BRIEFLY

the forward rate corresponding to. the
time of expected delivery. In dollars?
Impossible to say.” :

The chicken’s exact cost paid at the
register is unclear as well, said Feinberg,
because he also bought a Snapple. But
one thing is clear; the price paid was not
minimal. meg

The Union Café is known for slow
lines, Big League Chew, and yes, high
prices. ‘Not until Feinberg’s experiment,
however, have the true costs been un-
covered. Lamented Feinberg, “A grilled
chicken sandwich goes for around five
dollars, hours of lost time, and one
man’s dignity.”

College to permit smoking in
Chambers to relieve stress

In a stunning turn of events, the col-
lege administration has decided to allow
smoking in Chambers classrooms. Not
wanting students to have difficulty
learning due to stress or tension levels,
school officials cleared the way for the
popular method of anxiety-release.

The new smoking permissive atmo-
sphere got off to a rough start when a fire
alarm caused students to miss 17 min-
‘utes of class.

The Dean of Students assured stu-
dents the weoblenn has been fixed and
students can continue to puff away with-
out worry of disrupting their education.

In the wake of the decision, many stu-
dents are bewildered, puzzled and some-
what annoyed. Michelle Blanchett ’06
feared for her health. “I suppose I'll have

_to bring my inhaler to class, now.”
“It feels a little too much like the Brick

House,” commented Steve Aikman 06,
“1 like to keep my studies separate from
my social life. What’s next? Installing
cups on desks for spitting tobacco?”

Ryan Rutgers ’08 was more positive in
his assessment: “I mean, Davidson stu-
dents need stimulants to stay awake. For
me, it’s caffeine. For others, cigarettes.
Plus, if anything, this will make the win-
dow seat that much more wanted.”

For smokers, the news carries excite-
ment over a more tolerant environment.
“I can’t tell you how many times I’ve
wanted a cigarette during an in-class
exam,” exclaimed junior Adam Pittman.

Most faculty were upset by the an-

, nouncement, accusing the college of giv-

ing in to requests by “activist donors.”
Many noted they were already having

_trouble recognizing student faces without

a smoke screen in the way.

CAMPUS VOICES

You call yourselves a Flickerball
team? A message from Coach Willis

Peter Willis ‘05
Third Rich
Co-Flickerball Coach

Vince Lombardi once said, “Winning
isn’t everything, it’s the only thing.” Third
Rich I hope you're listening. Our game
last week was pathetic. First off you all
showed up only 5 minutes before the
game. That’s not nearly enough time for
proper stretching and warm-ups! Not
only were you extremely late, but you
were also extremely lethargic. What were
you all doing last night? It’s a freakin’
Sunday morning, and that means one
thing: Flickerball. Have you forgotten our
motto by Winston Churchill, “We shall
show mercy, but we shall not ask for it”?
You should have been so pumped that you
accidentally tackled the other team.
Which brings me to another point: You
call what you did last week tagging?
Where I come from you only see that kind
of touching late at night on Cinemax. It’s
no wonder the refs never saw any of the

tags. Speaking of which, the refs really
screwed us over. I mean were we playing
flickerball or rugby out there? Last time
I checked headlocks and sweeping low
kicks were illegal. Don’t quit your day
jobs. Girls, we’re third in the brackets
right now, and if you keep up these lack-
luster performances you'll have plenty of
time to eat a nice long lunch at Commons
during the championship tournament.
Another thing we need to work on is our
t-shirts. Who designed them? Did you
see the team we played last week? Those
were some classy shirts. I’m ashamed to
be seen walking to the fields with ours on.

Aword about practice: attend. How do
you expect to win any games if you don’t
even have the commitment to come out
three days a week to practice? Yeah,
Jenny, I’m talking to you. Winston
Churchill once said, “Continuous effort -
not strength or intelligence - is the key to
unlocking our potential.” Another thing,
the weightlifting sessions on Friday are
notvoluntary. They’re mandatory. If you
can’t squat 300, you won’t be able to do
squat on the field. It’s a direct relation-
ship. A word of advice: from now on
when you eat at the Union you’re only
allowed to order from the Deli. No more
Bistro Beef sandwiches. Those will only
slow you down. They go straight to your
thighs, and take away from your 40 time.
My freshman year, we went undefeated.
No, it wasn’t because we had football
players that came out and played illegally.
It was because we had heart. We must

' keep fighting. As Churchill once said, “It’s

not enough that we do our best; some-
times we have to do what’s required.”

THE YOWL

Your Davidsonian Hunior Section

THIS WEEK'S CAMPUS PARIAHS:
Jeff Yeakel
Bobby Kenner
Andrew Schapiro
Evans McGowan
Jordie Poncy
Robbie Reynolds

Epiror:
Brendan Parets

Students with story suggestions or
interested in writing should contact the
editor at brparets@davidson.edu
Note: If you've been living in a cave for the
past six months, then you should know that the

Yow! is a satirical
Davidsonian. Hence,

to the
tn it should be
taken as truth. ~

A Jiff of Jeff

“The Cycloptopus”

I'm a math major.
I love numbers!

By Jeffrey Yeakel
You love who?
|
Face.
Book

