- THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004 3

Zakaria will speak at Bank Christians, Jews, Muslims
-to discuss common beliefs

of America Conference

Greater student participation in event wanted

By ApaM MarTIN
Senior Staff Writer

Fareed Zakaria, current editor of Newsweek
International, will be among ten distinguished
speakers and panelists assembling on
Davidson’s campus for the endowed Bank of
America Conference March 28-31.

The endowment for the confererice, given
by Charlotte-based Bank of America, gener-
ated about $40,000 for this year’s conference.
The amount totaled a little more than usual for
the conference that takes place every other year.

“This conference demonstrates a commit-

ment to the international education of all stu-. .

dents with a kind of intensity that is rare among

‘small liberal arts schools,” according to Dr.
Chris Alexander, Director of Dean Rusk and
Associate Professor of Political Science.

Planning forthe conference began a year ago
when Alexander asked the student body for sug-
gestions on conference topics. He and the Dean
Rusk Student Advisory Committee (SAC) then
took the submissions and held several discus-
sions with other interested students.

This year’s conference, entitled “National
Interests/Global Challenges: Prosperity, Secu-
rity and Sovereignty in the 21st Century,” is
the result of those discussions and months of
planning.

Alexander hopes that “the broadness of this
year’s theme will offer something for almost
everybody” and that students will have “to
make anguished decisions about how much
time they can give during those few days.”

Though covering a generally broad range of
topics, the central thread of the conference will
examine “the important principle of national
sovereignty,” said Alexander.

Dr. Stephen Krasner will begin the confer-
ence with a keynote address on Mar 28, en-
titled “The Exhaustion of Sovereignty.”
Krasner has been Professor of International
Relations at Stanford University since 1981.
He also worked for the United Nation’s Na-
tional Security Council in 2002 as Director of
Governance and Development.

Events on the following Monday, Tuesday,
and Wednesday will loosely revolve around
current economic, political and environmen-

tal challenges, respectively. Each night will

feature one panel. discussion andé one kéynote
speaker, totaling seven events for the four days.

Zakaria will keynote Tuesday evening also
as the distinguished Wearn Lecturer sponsored
by the Public Lectures Committee. He is the
current Editor of Newsweek International and
author of anew book, “The Future of Freedom:
Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad” due
for release in April. He will speak here about

Zakaria will speak on

.5. foreign
policy at Davidson next month.

current and future global threats and U.S. for-
eign policy.

Other speakers include Kathryn Washburn,
Directory of International Affairs for the U.S.
Departmentof the Interior, and David Runnalls,
President and Chief Executive Officer of the
International Institute for Sustainable Devel-
opment (IISD).

Alexander pointed out that this year’s panel
speakers will only speak for 30 minutes each,
leaving a full hour for question-and-answer.

“This will provide Davidson students a
chance not only to learn from but to match wits
with our articulate speakers,” said Alexander.

Co-chair of the SAC, Josh Craft ’04 said,
“‘We want everybody to understand the gravity
of this event and get excited about it. This can
be a great opportunity for students to meet and
get to know some big and interesting names.”

Students interested in meeting the guests may
do so by driving them to or from the airport or
eating dinner with them and should contact
Craft or Alexander.

Professors, from page 1

selections. ,

Ross said that eligible faculty members must
diplay three qualifications: “Excellence in
teaching, continued professional activity which
oftentimes means research and publications,
and service to the College.”

Promotion to full professor status honors
faculty members for their contributions to the
College.

“There isn’t adirect tangible benefit [to pro-
motion], it’s more a recognition of continuous
achievement,” Ross said.

Departmental Hiring

Starting in January, candidates for perma-
nent positions started visiting Davidson for on-
campus interviews, a process many students
claim has disrupted at least one of their classes.

While at Davidson, the candidates met with
President Vagt and faculty members from their
prospective department. They also made at
least one presentation related to their profes-
sional work or taught a class.

Georgie Ahrendt ’06 said that for two class
periods in a row, she and her peers listened to
lectures given by candidates vying for an open
position instead of following their regular
schedule. Although Ahrendt appreciated the
opportunity to meet the candidates, she ex-
pressed some frustration with the interruption.

“T think [the guest lectures] did put us be-

hind in our class,” Ahrendt said. “It was defi-
nitely two full days that [our professor] didn’t
get to lecture. It wasn’t in our syllabus.”

The interview process has also disturbed
classes taught by visiting professors who are
competing for permanent faculty positions.

Martha Shott ’06 said that one of her profes-
sors had already missed two or three classes in
order to attend Davidson interviews.

While the professor arranged for a substi-
tute teacher, Shott felt that the substitute’s pres-

- ence did not make up for her actual professor’s

absence.

Shott explained, “[The substitute] doesn’t
disrupt [class] completely, but there is a sense
that since she doesn’t know where we’re at,
there’s a disparity between what she thinks we
know and what we really know. I think that if
a professor is interviewing for another posi-
tion at Davidson, then the administration should
allow them to teach their Davidson classes.”

Dr. Alberto Hernandez Chiroldes, Chair of
the Spanish department, wrote by e-mail that
his department, at least, made a conscious ef-

fort not to schedule an interview during class _

time. Also, candidates who lectured to classes
were expected to teach the same subjects al-
ready noted on the syllabus.

Open positions are available in the History,
Music, Philosophy, Sociology, and Spanish
departments.

Ross indicated that he and Vagt hoped to
make job offers around March 1.

with help of Abraham book

By Joun HELMs
Staff Writer

Starting in the middle of March, there will
be a series of discussions among the Christian,
Jewish, and Muslim groups on campus revolv-
ing around the patriarch of the three faiths:
Abraham. Using selected passages from the
book “Abraham: a Journey to the Heart of Three
Faiths” by Bruce Feiler, the group hopes to open
up a dialogue among the different religious
groups.

According to initiator Adam Martin ’06,
“Davidson is getting to a point where there’s a
significant amount of religious diversity. We’ re
at the point where there are enough students of
different faith traditions where there are dif-
ferent organizations to support them.”

One of the objectives of the discussions is
for the pafticipants to discover common ground
among the three faiths.

Since Judaism, Christianity, and Islam all

trace their roots back to Abraham, Martin wants
to use the story of Abraham to show that the
religions share many common beliefs.
- “It would be a discussion that hopefully
demonstrates that the religions can talk and
agree on things and find out that we have a lot
more in common than we thought,” said Mar-
tin.

Other students who are actively involved in
the planning of these discussions, such as Faris
Al Mazrui ’07, hope that the discussions will
go beyond the story of Abraham and extend to
today’s religious issues.

“Td like to walk out of it feeling that I can

live with my brothers from the other religions.
There should be no barriers between us. We
should live in peace and work together in har-
mony,” said Al Mazrui.

While religious conflicts are not the focus of
the discussions, Martin hopes that the discus-
sions help explain the differences in the Jew-
ish, Christian, and Islamic versions of
Abraham’s story and how that affects the rela-
tionship among the three religions.

While the book provides some pretext for
the discussions, Martin does not want the book
to constrain the possible topics of the discus-
sions.

“We’re using the book as a reference for the
structure of the discussion, but we’ re not tightly
bound to the book. We realize that most of the
people attending these meetings will be busy.
We don’t want people who come to think that
they have to read the book. We’ re making pack-
ets with stories from different scriptures and
some passages from the Abraham book. We
know that people are busy,” said Martin.

Martin notes that the success of the book
discussions will not necessarily rely on a con-
clusion or consensus. He said that “a success-
ful discussion would be where people would
be comfortable with talking to other people [of
different religions] about their faith.”

The discussion group will meet Thursday
evenings starting March 11 and finishing April
1. Students interested in attending these meet-
ings are encouraged to commit to three out of
four of the meetings, but participants are not
required to read the text prior to attending the
discussions.

Your

Your

Reality:

The Johns Hopkins Post-

Program prepares college

courses, and one-to-one
academic advising.

doctor, apply by March 1.

410-516-7748.

Davidson Post Bac 04

Dream: “I want to become a doctor.”

“I don’t have the
required courses
for medical school.”

Baccalaureate Premedical

graduates with strong academic
records to apply to the best
medical schools by giving them
the personal attention, the
‘necessary science and math

If you or someone you know
wants to pursue a career as a

For more information, visit
www.jhu.edu/postbac or call

JOHNS HOPKINS

1 V2 BR 6 ape f-Y.
Post- Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

