8. THE DAVIDSONIAN

Davidson’s Lake Campus:
better than the Union

By RuetT MERRILL
Special Contributor -

109.6 lake front acres on secluded cove, dock
with large boat house, manicured lawns, beach
with private swimming area, several barns, and
residence within 10 minutes of the Town of
Davidson and 12 minutes of Lake Norman
shops.

The description reads like an ad for a prime
piece of real estate just waiting to be snatched
up by some eccentric millionaire or ambitious
developer bent on building a beautiful estate
or estates in one of the area’s hottest markets
— it’s not, it is Davidson’s Lake Campus.

The residence is actually the care taker’s
house, the barns house the necessary equip-
ment for the daily operation of the lake cam-
pus, and its lawns are a little more rural than
described. But it is still prime real-estate, and
it’s heavily underused.

The Lake Campus was created in the early
1960’s when Duke Power constructed Lake
Norman to facilitate the production of hydro-
electric power, and to cool the McGuire nuclear
power plant at south end of the lake.

The piece of pristine property described
above was donated to Davidson College by
Duke Power with the stipulation that it could
not be sold or used for commercial purposes,
but rather was intended for the amusement of
the students, faculty, staff, alumni and friends
of the college, so, you may ask, what exactly
is amusement?

Most students who decide to up and make
the short trek out to the lake campus find them-
selves out on the point sunbathing, swimming,
cooking out, and playing pick up sports of some
kind.

It’s a great place to escape to study, or relax
with iriends, and there is no doubt the grassy
point covered with dogwood trees jutting out
into the lake is a great place to be, but in reality
that’s only a fraction of what the lake campus
actually has to offer.

On those beautiful, warm, calm, sunny days,
and even on some of those more overcast days,
I’malittle too addicted to the water to sit around

Jealous? This could be you.

and sun bathe or read. I usually can’t wait to
get out to the lake at make a few passes at the
water-ski slalom course, or take a few mem-
bers of the waterskiing club skiing,
wakeboarding, or tubing.

You’ re always welcome to give it a shot, but
if skiing, wakeboarding or tubing aren’t your
thing, there are still ways to make use of Duke
Power’s giant cooling tank.

Maybe you’d like to cruise the lake with a
group of friends on a pontoon boat, or along
the shore in a paddle boat, perhaps take a ca-

noe out for a lazy afternoon, or if a little wind ©

picks up jump ina sunfish and let the wind carry
you across the lake.

If its really nice, and you’re a more profi-
cient sailor, why not ask the sailing team if you
can take a lark, orevenaJ-24 for the afternoon,
after all it’s free!

Well, almost free. A nominal fee (trust me

it’s just enough to make sure you don’t hog the

boats all day, but let some of your peers enjoy
the water too) will get on the water in no time.

Need some more help motivating yourself
to get out to the lake?

Then take advantage of SGA’s new “April
at the Lake” program. Every Friday in April
(starting this Friday) the Vamonos Van will
run shuttle service to and from the lake where
the SGA will host a band, several cookouts,
skiing, tubing, sailing, frisbee, maybe some
flicker ball, and all the other amenities the lake
campus has to offer free of all the usual charges.

If your Friday afternoon is booked, there’s
always that much needed recovery time from
Friday. night, try taking Saturday at the lake.

No matter what day of the week it is the Lake
Campus offers the Davidson community arare
resource that few other colleges enjoy.

We have a piece of real-estate most devel-
opers would kill for, and facilities that provide
a summer camp like array of activities, so as
the days start getting warmer and longer, next
time you need a break from studying, need an
excuse to procrastinate, or are sitting around
looking for things to do, grab a group of friends,
or just yourself, and make the short trip out
Langtree Road to the lake.

“PANINI” $4.99 |

FERRUCCI’S OLD TYME ITALIAN MARKET
"Shops on the Green + 177@ Exit 28
704-896-3190 * www-ferruccis.com

‘TV on the Radio’ latest album “Desperate Youth, Bloodthirsty Babes.’

WEpnEsDAY, Marcu 31, 2004

iT)

Tune into your ‘TV on the

Radio,’ it won’t

By Curis SCHMADER

Staff Writer

Last year, a group of New Yorkrockers called
“TV onthe Radio” released a five song EP that
created, and nearly fulfilled, enormous expec-
tations for the band.

That EP, entitled “Young Liars,” includes
four original songs and an a cappella cover of
the Pixies “Mr. Grieves.” From the first listen,
the tracks on “Young Liars” emerge as clear,
forceful wholes, with each musical element
meshing and feeding off the others in a manner
that is comparable to gospel while sounding
nothing like it.

The layered guitars, pulsing drum beats, and
multi-tracked vocals on the EP create majestic
waves of reverberation, whether on the driv-
ing “Satellite,” the soar- :

be on channel 9

the addition and subtraction of sonic voices.
Sometimes a wall of guitars and synths will
abrupt onto a song at once, as in the chorus of
“Dreams;” at other times the instruments pile
up gradually until they build to a stunning cli-
max, as in “King Eternal.”

And sometimes the band, at a moment’s
notice, will strip a song down to nothing but
vocals—a move made in “Poppy,” the last
entry in the stellar six-song run that begins the
album. Midway through “Poppy,” the repeti-
tive guitar line and spare, pounding beat that
have been accompanying Adebimpe and
Malone drop out of the song, throwing the sing-
ers’ vocals into stark relief.

The first six songs of “Desperate Y outh” dis-
play the same tightness that made “Young Li-
ars” such a striking listen. During this stretch,
every chord, beat, and stray

ing “Staring at the Sun,”
or the slowly unfolding
“Blind.” “Young Liars”
scant 25 minutes left

What your

‘Your heart can t dream/

see/ But you were our

bit of distortion coheres
into a powerful, soul-shak-
ing testimonial to urban
mystery and desire.

eyes won't

zyforafulliengthalbum  S2vOrite moment/ Of our je aie motagreat
that would develop ‘TV dead century.” one. The final three songs
onthe Radio’’s grandiose -- “Dreams” © the LP prevent it from

sound.

living up to the (perhaps‘

The moment of truth arrived earlier this
month, when the band released its first LP,
“Desperate Youth, Bloodthirsty Babes.” For
the first six songs of the album, the band uses
the same strategy as that of “Young Liars” to
wonderful effect.

Guitarists David Andrew Sitek and Kyp
Malone play throbbing chords that build to

create damaged heaps of sound, over which

singers Tunde Adebimpe—who sounds like
Peter Gabriel with soul—and Malone wail
appropriately desperate love lyrics, such as—
“Y our heart can’t dream/ What your eyes won’t
see/ But you were our favorite moment/ Of our
dead century” (from “Dreams”? or “I will be’

~ your ambulance/ If you will be my accident”

(from the a cappella “Ambulance”).

Some of*these songs, such as the two men-
tioned above; have a familiar verse-chorus-
verse structure; some don’t. The distinction
hardly matters, though, since most of the drama
and tension of the band’s best music stems from

unreasonable) expectations created by “Young
Liars.” ;

These songs find the band attempting to
loosen up and expand its sonic palette—an
admirable move, but one that produces sprawl-
ing, ungainly results. (The aimless organ noo-
dling on—“Don’t Love You” is the band’s
worst misstep thus far.)

Judging from the set list of a TV on the Ra-

dio show that this writer attended in Greens-
boro two weeks ago, the band knows that “Des-
perate Youth” doesn’t end well. Of the LP’s
final three songs, the band played only one:
“Wear You Out,” a tolerable pastiche of 70’s
soul.
- Luckily, they knew their strengths well
enough to play all of the original songs on
“Young Liars,” along with the first six on
“Desperate Youth.” Added up, these songs
amount already to. an impressive catalogue; it
will be exciting to see where these desperate
youth go from here.
