12

FOr VOU
Sports fans...
WILSON S PICKS OF

THE WBEK

Wildcat game of
the week:
Wednesday, 9/29
Women vs. UNC Asheville 5:00 -
Men vs. South Carolina 7:00

The men's and woutat's socder tenn apes
up brand-new Alumni Stadium on Wednes-
day with a double-header match-up. The _

- stadium was supposed to be ready for use
several weeks ago for the adidas tournament,
Be pally SORE ee ee te ea

opening.
Pha women will take on UNC Asheville in
their final non-conference game of the _
season, and they hope to avenge a tough 8-0
loss to Duke over the weekend. The men will
then face SEC power South Carolina at 7:00.
- The men too are looking to rebound from a

tough stretch of games, as they have givenup ~*

three goals in each of their past three games
in being outscored 9-1. _

*

Outside a

The GeongiaflSIU casi op will bo trig:
in the SEC this weekend, but the game lost a

lot of its luster when Auburn handed the
defending national-champions a last-minute

loss two weeks s ago. Georgia, too, hasn't

© fans are interacting negatively with
| players and coaches more and more.
© Ask Randy Myers, when he beat up

SPORTS

Fans should realize that provoking players
is dangerous for both them and athletes

By Bossy DEMURO

WEDNESDAY, SEPTERMBER 29, 2004

Players should know better: fans who

heckle should be ignored, not attacked

By Drew BrookiE

Staff Writer

In the summer of 2003, Kansas City Royals first base coach Tom
Gamboa was attacked by a man and his 15-year old son during a Roy-
als’ victory in Chicago over the White Sox.

In the unprovoked attack, Gamboa suffered only minor cuts and
bruises. Coming to his rescue were not only his counterparts from the
Royals, but also the Chicago White Sox players and coaches.

When the 34-year old attacker was interviewed by USA Today after
his arrest, he only said Gamboa, a 54-year-old man, “got what he de-
served.”

Last week in Oakland, Texas Rangers rookie reliever Frank Fran-
cisco threw a chair from the bullpen into the stands late in the ninth
inning, defending his veteran teammate Doug Brocail from heckling.
The chair cut a woman’s face and
broke her nose.

The game then stopped as the
Rangers had to restrain relievers
Carlos Almanzar, Francisco and
Brocail from entering the stands.

This seems to be a growing trend
in Major League Baseball; that is,

an aggressor-fan in 1995, Chad
Kreuter who fought with fans as a
Dodger several years ago, or Jeff
Nelson who fought with a bullpen
attendant in Boston last year. There
are many more examples of this in
the past 20 years, such as when Graig Nettles defended an umpire in
New York from a crazed fan in the 1980s.

Although Francisco acted as unprofessionally as possible last week,
he is not the biggest problem in this case.

The real problem in this situation are the “armchair athletes,” the
fans who relentlessly critique and heckle players from the safety of
their seats in the stands.

We’ ve all done it; we criticize athletes in a sport we’ ve never played,
saying that’ “we could do it better.” I’ ve done it at the volleyball games
here at Davidson. ;

But the problem is that there is a fine line that must not be crossed
as a spectator. It was only because of ridiculously offensive and un-
provoked heckling by fans last week in Oakland that Francisco and
the veterans Brocail and Almanzar even considered attacking the fans.

The armchair athletes hurtling insults at players need to realize this:
these men are professional athletes, and have been for years. They are
muscular, conditioned, people who are focused on the field to do an
important job.

After witnessing these attacks and fracases on television, I would
not be surprised if, in a short time, a crazy or out-of-control fan is
killed on the field by professional athletes. These baseball players have
no tolerance for that kind of immature, stupid, drunk behavior.

A warning must be sent out to fans who fail to realize this. It is
important to remember, as well, that Rangers and Athletics players
came over to assist Brocail and Francisco in the incident. Though the

see Fans, page 13

By RICHARD CONNOLLY

Sports Editor ;

I consider myself a baseball fan. That’s why it hurts me when a
small percentage of Major Leaguers, players whom the baseball gods
have gifted so much, treat the game and its fans with disrespect.

Frank Francisco gave the game a figurative black eye last week
when he gave an Oakland A’s fan a very real black eye. Responding to
persistent heckling from fans near the bullpen, he threw a chair wildly
into the crowd. The chair hit a woman’‘in the face.

I can’t forgive Frank Francisco, no matter how good of a baseball
player is. I don’t necessarily feel bad for the Oakland A’s fans who
instigated the heckling either, although heckling is part of the game.

Players have had to deal with heckling since the game began. Mostly,
the best ones ignore it. Professional major leaguers usually have a
very high level of mental toughness, and don’t involve themselves
with petty banter.

I do, however, feel very bad for the
lady who was hit in the head. My
sympathy goes out to all the fathers
who will have to explain to their kids
that this kind of unjustified retalia-
tion is unacceptable. It might be hard
to convince kids who look up to the
players as much or more than their
fathers.

I also feel for fans who will have
to be moved further away from the
game because of idiotic behavior. A
few bad apples...

So what can be done to stop this in

: the future?
Frank Francisco absolutely got what he deserved when the
Commissioner’s Office suspended him for the rest of the season (and
the playoffs if the Rangers are to make it). I guess Bud Selig didn’t
buy the third-grader “He started it” argument.

Selig sent a message to the rest of the players: act like a child, and
you will be given a major timeout.

This was a small step in the direction baseball needs to go. Should
baseball go further, cutting off fan interaction with the game to pre-
serve the players’ safety?

Sure, the commissioner’s office could beef up security in vulner-
able spots at stadiums, create some barriers, cut off beer sales earlier,
move the fans away from the game. But some fans are going to be
idiots regardless.

As long as the commissioner’s office makes some reasonable regu-
lations to ensure the players’ safety, it is up to the players’ to start
acting responsibly. They are primarily at fault for letting relatively
harmless heckling get the best of them.

Fans are always going to be fairly close to the field and the players,
especially now that stadiums are becoming smaller and more inti-
mate. These new features are a gift to the majority of baseball fans,
who are well-behaved, and deserve to feel closer to the action.

Players will be heckled, and it does not always have result-in a
negative outcome. For some people, this is the fun of going to a game
— a way to be involved. It’s not my choice, but it is for some. .

The best baseball can do to stop the rowdy hecklers is to kick them

see Players, page 13

Staff Columnist

Funny that when you try to sneak an unreg-

istered party past the administration it’s like
trying to sneak the sun past a rooster, but those
same powers-that-be somehow schedule
Homecoming for the most important Jewish
holiday. Priorities much?

I’m an Irish-Catholic and we had nothing
planned for Saturday, so I was at the football
game along with, like, 48 of you. Here’s one
vote for Davidson instituting a new policy that
would lock all doors to Little library on Home-
coming. Is it just me, or do more people show
up to food-court day at Commons than foot-
ball games? But I’m not about to fight a los-
ing battle, so I’ll let you all live vicariously
through me.

There was no way Homecoming 2004—my
last as a student—would fail to entertain like
so many of these columns. Saturday began

early, with a familiar and unmistakable crack-
ing noise echoing through my apartment at
9:24 a.m. Some of you may not pay attention
to such milestones, but trust me, when you
look back at your college experience, things
like that will matter.

From our porch, my roommates and I stood
in total shock as. numerous—“backpackers”
began to summit Mount E.H. Little at 10
o’clock in the morning. On a Saturday. Dur-
ing Homecoming. I’m well aware that we’re
here to be students, but let’s set aside some
time to root, root, root for the home team. Your
carol will be there in the morning; Homecom-
ing will not.

Just prior to kickoff, we assumed our posi-
tion on the sidelines near President Vagt and
those Kids who paint their chests for every
single Davidson event. This may just be ru-
mor, but someone apparently saw those guys
at a Young Republicans meeting, red chests
and all. And by the way, where else can you

find a college president who paces the side-
line, completely focused on every play? I’m
pretty sure if you told President Vagt that
Chambers was on fire again he’d wait unit
halftime to check it out.

The game itself went swimmingly, as John
Leverett rushed for two scores and, behind
two key interceptions from Kevin Saunders
and Brendan Dete (not to mention a near miss
by Zack Drozda), the defense held Butler
scoreless’in the second half.

After spending last weekend inside and
alone, it was nice finally getting out in the
sun and socializing. My roommate also en-
joyed the sun; but made the unfortunate mis-
take of wearing sunglasses—and not sun-
screen—all day, and now looks like the Pink
Power Ranger.

Despite the anemic turnout of students, the
crowd was rather impressive. I watch all

see Connolly, page 15
