14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Men’s Basketball looks toward key December matchups

By Bossy DEMuro
Staff Writer

Here’s a look at Wednesday’s match-up with
Charlotte, along with key games over the break
with Seton Hall and Princeton.

Charlotte, Dec. 8, 7:00 PM, Belk Arena

On Wednesday, Davidson men’s basketball
takes on rival Charlotte in a cross-county battle
for the Hornets’ Nest Trophy.

The ’Cats (3-3, 1-0 SoCon) are coming off
a win in their SoCon opener at Georgia South-
ern on Saturday. The 49ers lost at home to No.
22 Alabama 102-101 in three overtimes on
Saturday.

Davidson head coach Bob McKillop says,
“(Charlotte is a team that is as athletic as any
team we'll face this year. They have the abil-
ity to generate runs, they can score from the
bleachers, and they can shoot the ball from
three-point range. And, when you’re shoot-
ing threes in the amount they shoot, long re-
bounds and athleticism come into play.”

In this case, the statistics don’t lie. As a team,
the 49ers average 86.8 points per game, and
shoot .476 from beyond the three-point line.
Both of these marks lead their conference
(Conference USA).

“They have the ability to make spectacular
plays,” adds McKillop. “They present an ex-
traordinary number of challenges.”

Charlotte is a very dangerous team in no
small part due to their athleticism. They are
second in Conference USA in steals, and rank
highly in the 15-team conference in other ath-
letic categories like rebounds, blocks, and as-
sists. ,

“They can create chaos with their defense,
and consistently try to keep you off balance,”
says McKillop. “They have the length and
quickness to make up for a gamble; they re-
cover pretty well.”

After concerns stemming from last week’s
disappointing game against Georgetown,
the’’Cats realize the need to take care of the
ball, and use their offensive possessions
wisely.

“The need for us to be poised, patient and
careful is going to be crucial on every posses-
sion,” says McKillop.

As good as Charlotte sounds, their weak-
nesses are quite prevalent. Charlotte does score
a lot, but they also give up a lot of points. They
rank last in Conference USA in points per
game allowed, giving up over 75 points per
game this season.

Furthermore, as well as the 49ers shoot from
the floor, they only shoot .601 from the free
throw line, making them one of the worst free-
throw shooting teams in their conference.

Free throw shooting cost the 49ers dearly
down the stretch in early season losses to both
Rutgers and Alabma, so look for the Wildcats

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

Transfer Jason Morton ’06 drives past Duke s J.J. Redick in Duke’s
74-61 victory over the Widcats. Morton chipped in 2 points on the
night, but he is averaging close to nine per game on the season.

to make it a physical contest and force Char-
lotte to beat them from the line.

Seton Hall, Dec. 29, 7:00 PM, Belk Arena

While the students relax after the holidays,
the "Cats must keep their intensity intact as
post-season savvy Seton Hall comes to town.

The Pirates of the Big East Conference are
an experienced squad that made strides after
a successful NCAA Tournament showing in
2003-04.

Though McKillop was quick to stress the
team was focused on Charlotte and not any
future games, he did say, “Seton Hall is a very
physical, athletic team. Their system is in-
grained, the coach is well-established, and the
players are experienced veterans.”

The Pirates, coming off a close loss to No.
18 Texas, return 10 players from last year’s
postseason team. Head Coach Louis Orr, in
his fourth year, led the Pirates to a 21-10 record
last year and a defeat of Arizona in the NCAA
Tournament. ;

“Charlotte and Seton Hall can throw a

rn

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~

GOURMET FLAME-BROILED
ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON
GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN 1 BRATS,
SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KI
OUR OWN PORK BAR-B~

9709-8 SAM FURR RD_HUNTERSVILLE, NC
"EASY OFF
Hours Dally 11AM~SPM: Closed Sunday

Phene Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrilil.com

ELBASA &
/ BEAR'S BEST “8N8”

/EASY ON”

can't t have one e player take
the ball and make it hap--
pen. Wei te a en man

knockout punch with three points and dunks,”
McKillop says.

@ Princeton, Jan. 2, 2:00 PM

Cut from a mold completely different than
Charlotte and Seton Hall, Princeton relies on
backdoor cuts and intelligent use of the shot
clock as their weapons. Davidson takes on the
defending Ivy League champion in Princeton,
N.J., after the New Year.

Davidson has already faced a Princeton-
style offense this season, as Georgetown runs
a similar offense under head coach John Th-
ompson III, who last year coached for the Ti-
gers. “[They are] very similar to Georgetown
in many respects; a lot of parallels in terms of
backdoor cuts, use of the shot clock, making
shots at the buzzer,” says McKillop.
“Princeton can throw a knockout punch with
shot clock evaporation.”

The Tigers rely on a slowér game pace,
which makes them a legitimate challenge for
the ’Cats.

“The way that Princeton plays, you can find
yourself trying to rush in terms of defense, |
taking you out of your own style of play,”
warns McKillop.

playing at their peak come Southern Counfer-
ence Tournament. y
“Last year, we got off the: ‘mat in January
and February and went undefeated in the last
nine games of the seasox. We went into the
conference tournament playing the best bas-

Players to watch against Charlotte:

Curtis Withers: The 6’8” junior forward exploded over the summer
with a strong performance as a member of the USA young men’s team, as
he helped lead the Americans to gold with his combination of defensive
intensity and offensive firepower. Withers had 16 double-doubles last year,
and may pose match-up problems for Davidson with his long frame and
athletic ability.

Brendan Plavich: The senior is a lethal sharp-shooter who leads the
49ers this season in scoring at over 15 points-per-game. He is also averag-
‘ing nearly 50 percent from beyond the arc, while astonishingly shooting
less than 30 percent from the free throw line.

Martin Iti: The sophomore center considered entering the NBA Draft
last year, but took his name out of consideration after going to the pre-draft
camp in Chicago. Iti has improved his offensive game this year, and is also
averaging 2.6 blocks and over six rebounds per game.

