Ac THE DAvVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 31, 2004

Students pleased with Bank of America Conference

By Amanda Stephens
Senior Staff Writer

As political, economic, and international
affairs experts fly in from all over the country
to speak at Davidson for the Bank of America
Conference, increasing numbers of Davidson
students have seized the opportunity to listen
to debates and lectures.

“Student turnout has been one problem that
plagued past conferences, but I’m pleased that
every one of our events (so far) has had a
majority of students in the audience,” said
Andrea Lytle, the Dean Rusk Fellow.

In fact, according to Lytle, many students
have even expressed regret at not being able to

attend more lectures due to scheduling con-
flicts.

“Several students have told me that they want
to come to more of these events, but with the
usual crunch of work and extracurriculars, they
just can’t come to as many speakers as they
would like,” said Lytle.

Increasing interest in the speaker series may
be attributed to the wide variety of topics de-
bated in this year’s conference.

According to Lytle, broader discussion
themes may have attracted more students.

“One thing about the this year’s conference
topic that has been both a blessing and a curse
is that it is so incredibly broad. The issues and
implications of ‘prosperity, security and sov-

Former U.S. Trade Representative Charlene Barshefsky speaks on
“Global Trade and Economic Interests.”

Melinda Clare Baldwin
Eileen Beardsley

Louis Thacher Becker
Melissa Carole Breedlove
Sean Patrick Brooks |
Michael Brenton Byars
Mary Faith Carpenter
William Adam Chalker
Wesley Byron Chaney
William James Childs
Zachary Luke Farmer ~*
Jeffery Martin Fox

David Christopher Francis
Douglas Garland Freeman, III
Katharine Parker Giguere
Alissa Leona Greenberg
Sara Hockin Holmberg
Leigh Anne Hoskins
Robert Zebulon Kelley
Megan Newpart Kota
Jonathan Andrew Kropski
Jeffrey Harold Larrimore
Anna Cecile Lauzon
Robert Steven Lippert
Kristen Lynne Mays
Rachel Patton McCord
Zoe Elise McCoy

James Riley McNab, III

Phi Beta Kappa

Elected to Membership-in-Course February 18, 2004

Gregory Alan Molenkamp
Joshua Paul Morrow
Mark Jeffrey Murray
Johannes Frederick Norling
Chandra Nicole Payne
Julia Anneke Perry
J. Bradley Pilon
Arthur Paul Pineau
John Douglas Pitts, Jr.
Justin Ross Porter

. Laura Bowmar Puckett
Elizabeth Page Redpath
Clinton Scott Rickards, I
James Wilson Roberts
Susan Grams Robison
Tristan Thomas Roy
Christopher Ryan Schmader
Gregory Earl Scott
Ann Elizabeth Snider
Jennifer Lee Swails
Christopher Jesse Bird Thawley
George Thomas Vahamikos
Emily Marie Van Leeuwen
Thomas Kingsley Dixon Ward
Drew Steven Weber
Annette Virginia Welty
Timothy William Westover
Matthew Thomas Whited

ereignty’ are socomplicated thatit’s really hard
to get your head around the issues sometimes,”
Lytle said.

“On the other hand, the fact that the topics
have been so different has meant that we’ ve
drawn ina variety of students with very differ-
ent interests. A handful of students have been
to most (or all) of these events, but at each panel
or keynote speaker, I see more students Ihaven’t
seen before or whom I know don’t often make
it to one of our events,” Lytle said.

Overall, most students seem to be pleased ©

with the quality of the lectures.

Ashish George ’07 said, “All of the speakers
have done a good job of buttressing what they
have said with facts rather than merely making
claims that could elicit skepticism.”

Other students have expressed satisfaction
at hearing their own political opinions echoed
by the different speakers.

“I thought the sovereignty lecture was great,
but then again, what Krasner basically advo-
cated was close to American soft imperialism.
In short, Krasner is a realist, and he definitely
represents my political affiliation,” said Seany
Patrick ’06. iy

In addition to student enthusiasm, the Dean
Rusk Program attributes the success of the
conference to months of hard work and to the
efforts of the Student Advisory Committee
(SAC), which has worked in conjunction with
the Dean Rusk Program to make the confer-
ence possible.

“They have spoken in classes, put up a mil-
lion flyers, held programming events to in-
crease awareness and interest, driven speakers
to the airport... the list goes on and on,” said
Lytle.

As the conference approaches its end, stu-
dents are grateful for the opportunities this

“a photo by College Conununications

Kwesi Botchwey discussed the
challenges of development and
sovereignty Monday night.

series has provided them.

In the words of Leslie Thompson ’04, “This
conference has been a great opportunity for
Davidson students, especially those of us who
have had the chance to spend time with all of
the prolific speakers.

“I am disappointed that more students
haven’t been turning out for all of the events,
but I think that some of the guests, like Zakaria,
have ‘rock-star’ status and naturally attract
more attention than others. I certainly hope that
Dean Rusk continues to host the conference
every two years,” Thompson said.

H.S. Juniors flock to campus
in biggest Junior Day yet

By B Levin SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

This past Saturday, Davidson’s Admissions
Office hosted Junior Day 2, a program designed
to introduce high school juniors to Davidson
as well as to the general college search pro-
cess.

Students from 28 states attended Junior Day
for a total of 566 registered juniors. The num-
ber marked a significant increase from the 400
students who registered for the first Junior Day
in February.

The agenda for the day included faculty
panels, admission and financial aid sessions,
greetings from President Bobby Vagt, and a
lecture from Dean Nancy Cable entitled “The
College Search: An Insider’s Guide.”

More than 50 Davidson students volunteered
to lead events throughout the day.

Guides led approximately 35 tours of vary-

ing sizes in the morning, and panelists answered
questions and led discussions with prospective
students in the afternoon.

Admission Counselor Khoury Ashooh em-
phasized the importance of student participa-
tion in helping make Junior Day a successful
event.

“We rely on student participation to lead
tours, and many times the number of tours
given, as well as their size, is impacted directly
by the number of student volunteers,” Ashooh
said. , ;

“Some students give tours only, some do pan-
els only, some do both, some sit on parent
panels, and others — Senior Admission Fellows
— help out in different ways,” Ashooh contin-

- ued.

The Admissions Office also sponsors Deci-
sion Davidson for admitted students in April,
along with two Discover Davidson programs
for high school seniors in the fall.

Trespassing, from page 3

Although they will be more alert, many stu-
dents say that they do not intend to change their

habits drastically.

Darcie Draudt ’07 believes that although
trespassing is an everyday occurence in the out-
side world, it can seem to be a big deal at a
small college such as Davidson.

“Break-ins and peeping toms are typical
occurrences, but when it happens to a small
town college with a living Honor Code, it be-
comes a really big deal...I will still leave my
bookbag in the library when I go to the Union
or whatever, but I think that, like most college
campuses, having outsiders on campus is a
normal thing,” she said.

Geoff Kings’06, like Draudt, is not that
worried about the prospect’of unlawful entry,
but he said he will be more wary.

King also finds it interesting that these vio-
lations have highlighted the fact that the Honor

Code does not necessarily apply to outsiders.

“These incidents have the possibility of
undermining the benefits and false security of
the Honor Code, as some people might begin
to lock their doors, be more wary and worried
about the security of their belongings if left
somewhere... .however, I do think it is an inter-
esting situation where the college community
meets the less forgiving outside world,” King
said.

Although the students may not be particu-
larly worried about the threat of crime, they
still hope that the campus law enforcement will
do what it can to prevent these events from oc-
curring.

“Tt would be nice to know that campus po-
lice is continuing to be hesitant of anyone who
looks like they’ re not affiliated with Davidson,”

said Draudt.

Walker and the Campus Police intend to
continue watching out for trespassers. “The
safety of innocents is paramount,” he said.
