12 _ Tue DavipsoniAN

Or Ol
SpOres fas...

DAVIS PICKS OF

THE WEEK

wildcat game of
the week:

Men’s Basketball vs. College of Charleston

- Saturday at 7 p.m. in Belk Arena

SPORTS _.

The Patriots are a good team, even a great

one. They just won the Super Bowl, and that
speaks for itself. But are the New England

. Patriots the first dynasty since the free agency

era began, as many sensationalist members of
the media have been suggesting? Are they
even a dynasty at all?

No, and no.

If you’ve picked up any major sports
page in the last few days, or watched ESPN,
or surfed the web for Super Bowl stories,
you’ve most likely been subject to the lat-
est aggravating trend in sports media: laud-
ing the Patriots as the most amazing thing
to happen to football since the new free
agency era began in 1993. You’ve heard’
about how rare it is for teams to make, let
alone win, two Super Bowls in three years
during this age of parity. The feat is unheard
of, it’s unimaginable, it’s the most amaz-
ing phenomenon in recent sports history.

It happened five years ago.

And it almost happened a year before that.
And it happened two years before that. It’s
been happening, in fact, since free agency
began in 1993, the start of this so-called era
in which no team can stay on top for more
than a year. -

The Broncos won two in a row in 1997 and
1998. The Patriots didn’t even make the play-
offs last year to defend their title after win-
ning it in 2001. People seem to have forgot-

Chicago’s bull has hit the fan. Bulls mas-

cot “Da Bull’ has been caught selling mari-
juana out of the trunk of his car. Chester
Brewer, who has been the man under the bull
since 1996, has put his entertaining job in jeop-
aay with his deviant side job. If he loses his
oe ee) job, he will most likely re-
locate to a place where his
F services can be of better
use. Isn’t Portland in the
market for a new Trail-
blazer? ... At least it’s not
forced marriage: the Chi-
nese National ping pong
coach has banned his
players from “falling in
love” until after the

=== Olympics are over this
coming summer. Head coach Cai Zhenhua
made his announcement after removing three
players from the team who were reportedly
being affected by their inter-team romances.
Two of the removed players were ranked 10th
and 20th in the world. Zhenhua feels that be-
cause this is an Olympic year the players

BOE des
By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

Greatest Super Bowl ever? That’s what most
of the so-called experts are saying, and with
just cause. After all, it was four seconds short
of becoming the first Super Bowl in thirty-
eight tries to go into overtime.

Sure, the first 27 minutes were less excit-
ing than a high school debate match, but the
Patriots and Panthers combined for 24 points
in the three minutes before half time, igniting
what ultimately proved to be an offensive
slugfest between two defensive-oriented
teams.

As for the halftime itself, well, there was
more nudity than a good late-night feature on
Cinemax. a

You had Justin Timberlake “accidentally”
tearing Janet Jackson’s star-studded breast out
of her costume, and then there was the obliga-
tory streaker, who was decked by Matt
Chatham of the Patriots before being hauled
off like road kill.

Honestly, I thought the game was going to
be a blowout. Sure, there were all those evil
omens: Troy Brown losing to Steve Smith in

we
B.
Pe. -7

ten about that dynasty. The Denver victory, in
fact, came over the Green Bay Packers as they
themselves were attempting to take two in a
row. The Packers won jn 1996, one year after
the Cowboys pulled off the same feat the Pats
just accomplished (winning in 1993 and 1995,
not to mention the pre-free agency title in they

by MIKE GIGLIO

won in 1992).

And as the prematurely heralded Joe Mon-_

tana of the future, Tom Brady, undoubtedly
recalls, the Patriots won the first Super Bowl
of this incredible run over the St. Louis Rams,
who were attempting to win their third in three
years after losing in the Wild Card round the
year before. The poor Rams were just one
Adam Vinatieri kick away from being their
own dynasty.

Actually, by these new standards, it is now
very easy to have two dynasties at the same

should make sacrifices for the team . “Sepp
Blatter, president of FIFA, the world gov-
erning body of soccer, has released a state-
ment that female soccer players should
wear tighter shorts to promote “a more fe-
male aesthetic.” Blatter stated that the change
would increase the popularity of the sport. So
would serving free beer, but its just not going
to happen .. . What do R. Kelly, Julius
Erving, and Paris Hilton have in common?
One believes he could fly, one could fly, and
one flies to answer her cell phone. But all
of them also share their sex life on publicly
released video. Erving, 53, the father of a
22-year-old girl and a six-year-old, was headed
to court to settle the divorce with his wife of
31 years, Turquoise, when some video foot-
age surfaced. A sex tape of Dr. J that was un-
covered by the NY Post shows the fro-less
Erving in a white undershirt, boxers, and
metal-framed glasses. His co-star was a “vo-
luptuous, dark-haired young women with cin-
namon skin.” The background music, cour-
tesy of the Honeydrippers’ “Sea of Love,” and
some wine accompanied the two as they chat-

that video game, the winner of which has gone

on to win the last eight Super bowls; the Pan-

thers looking eerily like the 2001 Patriots; and
my roommate just freaking out all week, con-
vincing me we had absolutely no chance. But,
I don’t believe in superstition, and I thought
Carolina was insanely overmatched. Unfor-
tunately, as has become common lately, I
played the fool.

After former superhero Adam Vinatieri
pooched two easy field goals, it seemed all
the football gods were aligned against us and
those Panthers might win this one, an event
that would have obviously required me to
transfer.

Patriots’ fans worldwide breathed a collec-
tive sigh of relief, though, when we finally
scored a few points and seemed ready to take
a one-touchdown lead into halftime. But then,
employing what I believe is the second-worst
play in football behind the quick lateral pass

_to the wideout (you all know the one), we

squib tHe kickoff and virtually hand the Pan-
thers three points. Ya-da-ya-da-ya-da . . . the
Panthers take the lead. ~

This is when nausea set in and all the non-
Patriots fans started calling my cell phone. We

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

time in the NFL. If Tampa Bay rebounds and
wins it all next year, they will be a dynasty.

That might be more likely than the pros-
pect of the Patriots winning it next year to
make it two straight, a milestone their dynasty
has not yet reached. While the Patriots offense
is young and poised for years of success, their
defense is not. The defense that gave up
the fewest points per game in the league
this year started four players with ten or
more seasons of experience. Only two had
less than seven. While this hardly means
that the defense will fall apart next year —
chances are it will remain good — the num-
bers suggest that most of these players
won’t be around long enough to make the
run of a true dynasty, a 1980s 49ers type
of dynasty.

Unfortunately for the Pats, a great pres-
sure quarterback is not enough to main-
tain or even establish a dynasty, as Brett Favre
has discovered. It’s enough to keep.a team
competitive and in the playoffs, like the Pack-
ers have been since their dynasty hopes fell
through in 1997 (and, technically, in 1998).
That seems to be the fate of Brady and his
Patriots: a very competitive team for a good
amount of time. It’s more than most teams can
even hope for. It’s also a far cry from a dy-
nasty.

The new Joe Montana doesn’t even have a

Jerry Rice.

ted and moved on to “karma sutra-like posi-
tions” . . . Less time on the court, and more
time learning to read. Wondering what
Aaron Boone is up to during his off-season
following his 11th-inning game-winning
home run in Game Seven of the ALCS? The
Yankees third basemen is honing his round
ball skills on the court, kind of. The only prob-
lem: he might have torn his ACL while play-
ing, which would keep him out for the entire
2004 campaign. In his new contract, there is a
line prohibiting him from certain activities,
one of which is basketball. Boone must have
skimmed over that part... Where is the line
drawn for raising money? A booster club
for a Catholic high school girls basketball
team in Pittsburgh sold an advertisement
for their game program to a company that
markets exotic dancers for bachelor par-
ties. I have to ask two questions: what was
the booster club thinking in selling this ad?
And what kind of business does this company
think they will get from parents of Catholic
high school basketball players? Wait, maybe
there’s a few Julius Ervings in attendance.

65 RRR ie Ho ie!

hadn’t trailed i ina game . for 478 minutes—

you do the math. That streak was our confi-:
dence. And the highly anticipated commercials

did nothing to ease my pain because they all

sucked. All of them, especially the Cialis one

about timing your erection, which only com-

pounded my nausea.

So, cell phone off and puke bucket by my
side, I returned to my throne and waited. Not
that Tom Brady needs any more praise, but
the guy is the coolest cat on the planet. After a
little help from Carolina kicker Jon Kasay,
Brady methodically drove downfield and con-
nected with Mike Vrabel, a linebacker
(what!?), to regain the lead.

Alas, Jake Delhomme stormed right back
and tied the game with just over a minute left.
Fortunately, we’d been there before—too
many times before—and my confidence re-
turned knowing that, at worst, we’d take it to
overtime. But, like Lloyd Christmas in Dumb
and Dumber, Vinatieri stepped up to a 41-
yarder and totally redeemed himself!

Ball game. All of New England erupted like
it was on Cialis. Is this a dynasty? Maybe,
that’s not for me to decide. All I have to say
now is, Go Red Sox.
