THE DAvIDSONIAN

from Fans, page 12
two teams are opponents on the field, they
have a mutual respect and understanding of
each other when it comes to dealing with child-
ish behavior.

The game of baseball prides itself on n being
.America’s pastime, as well as on being the
most progressive sport in terms of interaction
between players and fans. For example, there
are autograph sessions before games and play-
ers throw balls in the stands at the end of in-
nings, and. all of this interaction contributes
to a very open, sociable environment.

However, there are problems with this in-
teractive environment. Fans, and in particular
men, are ruining a family baseball environ-
ment by crossing the line repeatedly.

Perhaps alcohol is a problem. Perhaps these
aggressors, through jealousy or bitterness,
need to reevaluate their seating choice.

Either way, there needs to be a warning sent
out to fans: do not mess with professional ath-
letes. These people weight-lift for a living, and
have for years. The men of Major League
Baseball, especially the pitchers, are very big.
Doug Brocail is 6 feet, 5 inches tall and wer
235 pounds.

Perhaps seating arrangements need to be
changed. There could be family sections near
bullpens and dugouts, no alcohol served after
the fifth inning (it currently cuts off in the sev-
enth inning), and Major League Baseball
could do anything else that might help tone
down the intensity of the wanna-be athletes.

Granted, Francisco, Brocail and Almanzar
(all of whom will be suspended) acted like
children in retaliation. But spats like this mark
a growing trend in M.L.B.., and the fans need
to be dealt with before someone is hurt far
worse than anyone in Oakland last week.

SPORTS

y i eesge out the win agaist the
Charleston. eS

from Players, page 13

out of the stadium if they are causing a major
disturbance. Unfortunately there are no mo-
ron detectors to preemptively turn them away
at the gate. But if fans are being safe,without
disturbing other fans experiences at the park,
I don’t care if they heckle at all.

The fact is, the players have the choice to
ignore it and go about their business.

Players like Cal Ripken Jr., Curt Schilling,
and Edgar Martinez have provided a great
example.

These players choose instead to interact
with fans in positive ways. Players like
Schilling even interact with hecklers in a posi-
tive way, joking with Yankees fans as if he
were just another Fenway-dweller.

The fact is, baseball players are role mod-
els, whether they like it or not. Young people,
and some adults look up to them.

I grew up idolizing Major League baseball
players. As I got older, I began to realize that
athletes were not perfect, just normal.

Too many players, like Francisco, have |

grown up in environments where authority
figures let them behave poorly -- as long as

they throw hard or hit consistently. They grow

up with a sense of entitlement. Actually, they
don’t grow up: they remain children.

Now, choosing the baseball players I look
up to is a moral dilemma. I look for players
who I respect as people too.

I feel thankful that I am now old enough to
know the difference. I’m worried that younger
baseball fans do not. 5

Frank Francisco could take a lesson from
some of his more mature counterparts. Frank,
if your out there, grow up. There are kids
watching. I really don’t care if they started it:
you should know better.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 B

 & © dD
A&E GO dD

Pa

e=3

It's stress management. It's knowledge.

's an art. | a reproduction.
» ¢ > y yf

What do you see? Every day, The New York Times helps you see the world around

you in whole new ways. Pick up your copy of The Times today. And to subscribe
at a very special student rate of more than 50% off, call 1-888-NYT-COLL and
mention media code S84AJ. Or visit nytimes.com/student. THE NEW YORK TIMES.
INSPIRING THOUGHT. DAILY.

Che New York Eimes Know LEDGE NETWORK.
INSPIRING THOUGHT

