12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2004

By Witson McCrory
Sports Editor

In so many ways, Davidson football’s trip
to San Diego, CA this past weekend showed
exactly what is wrong with the current state
of our football program.

On the surface, it was an embarrassing 56-
0 drubbing, the first time
the Wildcats have been
shutout since the beginning
of the 1999 season against
Morehead State.

Against the Toreros, the
offense was wholly inept,
with quarterbacks Damion
White ’05 and Beaux Jones
08 combining to go 10-32
with three interceptions
and no touchdowns. John
Leverett °07, the stalwart
of the Wildcat offense, was
never able to get in any
rhythm either, as Davidson
had to pass early and often
to try to recover from a 21-
O hole after just 15 minutes
of play.

The game reflected a
season that has been
plagued by turnovers and offensive ineffi-
ciency, as the Wildcats lost the ball four times
against San Diego to give them 23 turnovers
for the season. Davidson’s opponents, on the
other hand, have given the ball over only nine
times over that same stretch.

Davidson’s defense was also again porous
in allowing 418 yards, only 13 above their per-

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

FOr jou
SOOrus fais.

BROOKIE

Did you hear that?

That was the sound of my GPA crashing
through the floor, not that it had especially far
to fall. How can teachers expect Red Sox fans
to maintain focus at a time like this?

Our situation is not unlike Brooks’ from

The Shawshank Redemption, who was re-
leased from countless years in prison only to
find himself completely lost and utterly
clueless. And while surely none of us Sox fans
will hang ourselves in a seedy motel room,
our heads very well may explode during these
next few days.

Boston last went to the World Series in

» PICKS
OF THE

Wi dcat game of
the week:

WEEK

Cross Country at Southern Conference = 196, and despite being just three-years-old
Championship, Furman University at the time, I distinctly remember slugging six-
Saturday, October 30

packs of Gerber products when the Sox
knocked off the California Angels in seven
- games to capture the pennant.
I also remember hanging Bill Buckner in
effigy from my crib (I was a late-walker) af-
ter game six of the World Series. Fortunately

Cross Country is one of the sports that often
gets overlooked at Davidson. It’s a shame,
because. is svaners ne somes Oe Rett

, ino 5, a edb aco of

either. ee ee
and could have a brea

By AusTIN MERCADANTE AND WILSON McCrory

Senior Staff Writer and Sports Editor

Field hockey goalie Sarah Nolan continues
to garner recognition for her play in goal for
the Wildcats, as she was one of four goalies in
the nation recently named to the Division I
North/South All-Star game by the National
Field Hockey Coaches Association. Nolan
owns Davidson career records for minutes play
and career saves, and is second in career shut-
outs with ten.

Over the past two years, football has been
outscored by San Diego 110-7. Davidson,

game average. The Wildcats allowed 42 points
in the first half alone, and allowed yardage in
chucks both on the ground and through the
air. ;

To be sure, the product on the field is not
currently what it was in 2000, when the Wild-

“cats went a perfect 10-0 en route to their first

perfect season in school history. According to

Athletics Director Jim Murphy, the team has
struggled with attrition and injuries since that
period, leaving the squad with little depth in
key areas such as the offensive line and at
quarterback over the past few years. Whether
the change in performance is due to the afore-
mentioned reasons, a difference in talent, a
new coaching staff, or just plain bad luck is

Pedro went seven strong for Red
Sox in Boston’s 4-1 victory Tues.

now, being 21, my options for six-packs ex-
tend well beyond Banana-Tropical Blend and
Apple Delight, and as such the 2004 pennant
celebration in my room was similar to the one
in the Red Sox clubhouse, minus the 30-inch
Dominican midget, of course.

What’s more, Bill Buckner now resides in
the Idaho woods, close to the Unabomber’s
old place, and the only Sox player currently
hanging in my crib is Pokey Reese, whose
poster shares wall space with Avril Lavigne
and the Rat Pack.

Saying “World Series” to a Sox fan is like

meanwhile, has scored 115 points in seven
games this year.

Mén’s soccer is undefeated in its last five
games, with four wins and a tie in that stretch,
and appears to have snapped out of an early
season funk in which they were winless in six
straight games in September and October.
Davidson is also 4-0-1 in overtime play this
season after beating Furman, Wofford and
Elon in extra time this week.

In other men’s soccer news, Mac Wilkie ’07
was named TIAA-CREF Student-Athlete of
the Week. Wilkie had five points in three

anyone’s guess. =

More than wins and losses

But there is more wrong With the Davidson
football program than the 5-13 record over the
past two seasons, and a lot of it has nothing to
do with what goes on between the hash-marks
on Saturday afternoons.

: More disconcerting than
the lack of quality play on
the field is the general apa-

-thy directed towards the ©
football team by the
Davidson community. We
will never be a Michigan,
Tennessee or Ohio State,
where football dominates the
college culture, and that is
fine.

Indifference, on the other
hand, is not tolerable. The
student section is never close
to full at football games, and
attendance has fallen more
than 33 percent over the past
few years to below 2,000 per
game, mostly because there
is little reason to care what
Davidson does on a weekly
basis.

In 2000, when attendance was over 3,000
fans per-game, the schedule was littered with
competitive games against local rivals such
as Centre College, Sewanee, Hampden-
Sydney and Randolph-Macon, in addition to
what are now Pioneer Football League South

see McCrory, page 13

Lisa Turtle saying”“‘Yes” to Screech. We re-
ally don’t know the meaning of the word. How
are we supposed to act? My buddy called from
Boston and told me he dangled by one arm
from a 40-foot streetlight in Kenmore Square
during last Wednesday’s riots. Is that normal
for a pennant celebration? Like the where-
abouts of Whitey Bulger, nobody knows.

After dethroning the Yankees in the great-
est comeback in baseball history, Red Sox
Nation waited for our next opponent the way
a Kentucky Derby-winning horse set out to
stud waits for his next philly: the race has al-
ready been won, and all we can hope for now
is some ephemeral (look it up) enjoyment.
Cardinals, Astros—it could have been Martha
Stewart’s prison softball squad for all we
cared.

On Saturday night the Red Sox surrendered
nine runs on 11 hits and made four errors en
route to winning game one, 11-9. Who the hell
are we playing? Surely not the best team from
the National League.

see Connolly, page 13

games for the Wildcats, including a game-ty-
ing assist and game-winning goal in the same
game against Mercer. For his efforts, Wilkie
was also named to the UNC Greensboro/
adidas Classic All-Tournament team.

Women’s soccer is still plowing through
conference competition in the final weeks
before the Southern Conference Tournament.
They have recorded five wins and a tie in the
last six games, all against Southern Confer-
ence teams, and have outscored their oppo-
nents 18-1 in that stretch. The defense is look-
ing very strong, and Sarah Hobart ’05 contin-
ues here strong work in goal.
