10

Staff Editorial

Encouraging public
art at Davidson

While Davidson College has made a significant effort over
the years to expand and enhance its arts program, most notably
with the building of the VAC over ten years ago, the College’s
commitment to student art outside those academic walls has
thus far been rather limited.

However, every once in a while a Davidson student creates
a work of public art that goes to highlight the exceptional artis-
tic talent present in our student body.

This week the Residence Life Office decided not to paint
over a work of public student art, a complete transcription of
Virginia Wolfe’s “A Room of One’s Own” that covers the walls
of a storage room in Little residence hall.

There are certainly few if any reasons why RLO would need
to paint over this work given its location in an unused storage
room, and we applaud RLO for changing their minds and de-
ciding to keep this work of art for all students to enjoy, hope-
fully for years to come.

Yet now that RLO has made the decision to keep this work
of art, it is up to Davidson students, both current and future, to
take advantage and actually go examine this work for them-
selves.

RLO’s decision only goes to highlight the fact that Davidson
currently lacks many works of public art for students, faculty
and the rest of the community to enjoy.

Although student performances and exhibitions are usually
popular and well attended, public displays of art, both by stu-
dents and professionals, are too often confined to the VAC an
the College Union. :

This decision should encourage students to use more public
spaces to display their art.

After all, how often do most overburdened Davidson stu-
dents venture across the street to the VAC to take in a student
exhibition or admire some of the College’s own vast collection
of art?

Placing more student art in public spaces around campus
would be an easy way to make the student body at Davidson
more aware of the artistic talents of their classmates and could
entice more students who might never consider taking an arts
course to take an interest in the visual arts.

After all, isn’t a liberal arts education supposed to expose us
to topics that we might not otherwise think of pursuing?

RLO’s decision to keep this work of art is a sign that the
administration is willing to bend its normal policies in order to
allow public displays of student art. Hopefully, more students
will now be encouraged to undertake public art projects in less
traditional spaces.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUSX.LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
-David Crow
Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor
Zach Williams
Arts & Living Editors
Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson
Yow! Editor
Colin Eagan
Peter Allison & Mike Giglio
Photography Editors
Dorsett Clark & Ryaty Thompson
~ Nick Horton’
Circulation’ &-Advertising Managers
: Laura Filosa’ ‘

PERS

TIVES |

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Apri 21, 2004

Patent Sweater Ali Fitzgerald
LAY OFF,
hace oat (MILL HES MY LITERARY

AT TopAY3 eRvsut

BOOK SIGNING.
Win

No WAY.
8
Mooavey Me.

| THoveur

THE ‘TRI- CoRNERED
<_}| WaT WAS A

» [FASHION STATEMENT

NI

Looking back on the

t-shirt debate

I would dike to thank you for your inquisitive reporting re-
garding Sanctuary’s sweat free t-shirt project. As a member of
Sanctuary, I appreciated the new perspective that you gave the
issue by looking at the question with due sympathy to both
sides, the women in Nicaragua as well as the local employees
at Davidson Screen Printers.

However, as I read both the news
article and the staff editorial which
concerned our project, I was confused
as to why our proposal would truly
put the Screen Printers’ business at
risk. Our suggestion is simply that the
shirts be purchased from the Nueva
Vida Co-op, and then sent to
Davidson Screen Printers where they would be printed for
campus groups just as they have been before. If it is indeed the
purchase of the actual t-shirts on which this business depends
and not the printing over those t-shirts, then itis more clear why
our proposal threatens their enterprise. This was never the in-
tention of our group; it was simply a result of not investigating
the issue to the depth that it deserved.

Therefore, Sanctuary will be happy to pursue a more rigor-
ous investigation, including speaking to Mr. Hageman, the
owner of Davidson Screen Printers, to ensure that a compro-
mise can be met. Perhaps he will be willing to accept our pro-
posal to support Nueva Vida as his own supplier, for at least
some of his inventory. If he does so, it would be even easier for
our campus to choose to support the lives of those women and
the development of their community. But he would only sup-
port this project if students continue to request that he does so;
therefore it is still a responsibility of our campus to further
discuss the issue and to remember the vast influence our pur-
chases can make.

Nicole Mader ‘06

te

DAY Te CAGLE State ,com

ta
Ws (ou LIke

\nanna Se ram FREE? Wanna HUGP
Yes, Youre?
StS, Cone Now Sit
NG ES

odd), Bo | S ie,
SSCh ED

Geodk.Bo0dk, ie.

=D RoLL OVER.
Geeb Dagaie---

