THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

Women’s Committee hosts
‘Corporate Ladder’ talk

Committee also explores

possibility of on-campus
day care facility

By JACKIE McKEon
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson Women’s Committee hosted
“Climbing the Corporate Ladder ina Skirt” last
Thursday in Chambers Gallery.

Shannon McFayden ’82 and Lynn Ford ’84,
female executives from Wachovia in Charlotte,
described their career path to an audience of

Lynn Ford,’also a psychology major at
Davidson, began at Wachovia in Winston-Sa-
lem. ~_ ot

“T.was interested in how psychology mani-
fested itself in the workplace,” said Ford.

Ford eventually moved to Wachovia in Char-
lotte and married a fellow banker. She contin-
ues to work at Wachovia and the business she
focuses on deals with retirement.

Her husband currently works out of their
home and has the flexibility to take care of their
daughter while Ford is at work.

McFayden and Ford shared their personal
encounters with gender discrimination at the

Davidson College female students. McFayden-—workplace and offered their advice to Davidson _

and Ford discussed their experiences involv-
ing the balance between a career and a family,
and larger issues such as gender inequality in
the workplace.

Associate Director of Career Services
Monica White opened the talk with her per-
sonal thoughts on gender in the workplace and
shared statistics which confirmed the existence
of gender inequality.

“There is progress being made and that is
important, but it is also important to know that
there is still a gap,” she said.

McFayden, apsychology major at Davidson,
fell into banking after a mock-interview ses-
sion with an executive at First Union in Char-
lotte. She married a Davidson graduate and her
career caused them to move from Charlotte to
Florida for a period of eleven years.

“Tloved my job but it was causing me to travel
all of the time and it was horrible being away
from my children,” said McFayden.

The family moved back to North Carolina
and McFayden now serves as Senior Execu-
tive Vice President and Head of Corporate and
Community Affairs at Wachovia in Charlotte.
Her husband is now a stay-at-home dad.

tween 11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.

a

Campus Police Blotter

11/5 Chambers Building Vehicle Theft

Unknown person(s) removed a student’s bicycle from outside Chambers building be-

11/6 Patterson Court
Student stated that sometime between | and 2 a.m., some unknown person(s) took two
wallets out of her purse that was hidden in the KA House. She later found the wallets with
everything except $60 in cash, which was missing.
11/6 Alvarez College Union Unruly Person
Officer responded to a call from the Union Cafe manager, who stated that there was a
student sitting on the edge of the cooler. The manager had asked to student to get off, but
the student did not obey. Officer instructed the student to get off the cooler and he did.

11/6 Irwin Dormitory

Officer observed underage students involvedina drinking game while on patrol in Irwin.

11/7 Richardson Dormitory _ Alcohol Poisoning

Officer responded to a call of possible alcohol poisoning of a student. The student was
transported to Lake Norman Regional Hospital. :
11/7 : Irwin Dormitory Underage Drinking
Reporting officer walked by an open door and observed a plywood table with red plastic
cups arranged at both ends. There was beer in each cup. Also on the table and around the
room were numerous empty beer cans. Students were advised that they were going to be
cited for underage possession of alcohol and for engaging in a drinking game.

11/7 Sentelle Dormitory Alcohol Poisoning

Reporting officer and a medic unit were dispatched to Sentelle in reference to a possible
alcohol poisoning. Student was transported to Lake Normal Regional Hospital. _

College women on how to handle this sort
discrimination.

“Tt was great to find two women who are
managing the corporate world and their fami-
lies and hear stories about what kinds of ob-
stacles they have encountered along the way
in their careers and homes,” said Meredith
Lorenz ’05, co-president of the Women’s Com-
mittee. ‘

The Women’s Committee hosted numerous
events this fall and has big plans for the spring.

They hosted an intimate discussion about
sexuality with Georgia Ringle early in the fall
and a luncheon with the cast of “Love of the,
Nightingale,” which focused on the issues of
rape, incest, and sexual assault that exist in the
play.

The organization also supports the possibil-
ity of a day care facility on campus.

“The Trustees and Bobby Vagt are consider-
ing aday care facility for faculty, staff, andcom-
munity members,” said Lauren Heinz ’07.

Locations are currently being considered and
the day care could provide a chance for biol-
ogy and psychology student research, as well
as work study positions.

Property Theft

Underage Drinking

