Staff Editorial

Bats warrant
quicker response

What do the quaint town of Davidson and the fictional me-
tropolis of Gotham City have in common? They each have a
“bat cave,” at least of sorts.

Residents of Watts Residence Hall were recently awoken with
the fluttering sound of a bat flying around their room. Days
later, another bat was found to have entered a Watts room through
an open window, and yet another was thought to have entered
a student’s room through holes in a closet.

Yet as shocking as these incidents may seem, Watts’ bat prob-
lem is hardly new.

There have been reported incidents of bats in Watts since at
least fall of 2003, and by some accounts bats have inhabited
their own “bat cave” in Watts’ attic even longer.

While the bat problem is clearly not new, the Residence Life
Office has thankfully responded quickly to the incident this year
by contacting a pest control company as soon as the incident
was reported.

RLO should be congratulated for their quick initial response
to this problem. Hdéwever, their actions since then have not been
quite as commendable.

Residents of Fourth Watts who filled out work orders request-
ing screens be put on their windows so that bats that were still
congregating outside the building would not fly in through open
windows have still not gotten their requests fulfilled.

There is no reason why a simple request for screens to be
placed on windows should take so long, especially when the
consequences of not placing screens could mean bats flying in
windows in the middle of the night.

Don’t Davidson students have the right to open the windows
of their residence halls without the fear of a bat flying in and
causing a disturbance?

The idea of waking up and finding bats hanging from one’s
ceiling is not a pleasant thought to most students, and RLO
should be doing everything in their power to get rid of this
problem completely as soon as possible.

Instead of completing the simple task of installing screens,
RLO sent an email to Watts residents saying that those bats who
remain outside the building are “welcome neighbors because
they consume mosquitoes and other flying insects; forexample,
a little brown bat can consume up to 1200 flying insects in an
hour.”

While RLO should get credit for their creative excuse for
ignoring this problem, ensuring that Fourth Watts residents have
screens on their windows to protect them from the bats should
be their first priority.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in-Chief
David Crow
Managing Editor _
Zach Williams
-News Editors

Zach Kazior, Adam Martin & Ruchi Turakhia
Per: é ctiv ” E di r %
Nicholas Carison

Afts & Li

PERS

TIVES

THe DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
_ SEPTEMBER 15, 2004

Letters to the Editors

Pass/Fail
deadline
extended

Davidson students, as we all know, want
not only to succeed but also to get the full
benefit of a liberal arts education. To do
this, we must take classes, write papers,
and discuss topics that are outside the realm
of our usual mind frame each semester.

We are very lucky to have the option of

taking a class pass/fail for it allows us to :

branch outside our major, minor, or com-
fort zone and take classes we may not have
taken under the usual guidelines. That
being said, many students were unhappy
with the timeline of declaring a class pass/
fail.

Students argued that the old deadline—
6 weeks into the semester—did not allow
them a chance to get a sense of the class,
from both acontent anda grade standpoint.

With the recently approved extension
through the recommendation of the Edu-
cational Policy Committee and the Student
Government Association, the faculty voted
toextend the deadline for declaration from
six weeks to nine weeks. I believe this
change will allow students to absorb the
full benefits of taking aclass they may not
normally have taken.

With only a limited amount of time
around such amazing professors and class
topics, it is necessary for all of us to take

advantage of these resources. I hope this
change allows students to do so more fully.

Thank you to all who helped support
the change. The extension of the deadline
exemplifies how student concerns can re-
sult in positive change.

Katherine H ubbard 05
SGA President

Cable
Information

I want to update the campus commu-
nity on our efforts to provide cable TV
service to all residence hall rooms.

Campus wiring was accomplished far
faster than expected and all residence halls
and apartment buildings are now receiv-
ing cable television service from our new
provider, Campus Televideo, which re-
packages offerings from several satellite
services to meet the needs of campus
communities.

Unfortunately, Campus Televideo re-
ports a nationwide problem with channels
provided by the Dish Network: Channels
have been “freezing”, sometimes several
times daily. Although other channels re-
main operational, the effected channel
remains frozen until the receiver is manu-
ally rebooted by Davidson CollegeslTS
personnel. Dish has been unable to cor-
rect the problem. At the request of

DirecTV. This will cause some change
in channel line-up and offerings. After
the conversion, CAT-TV will no longer
offer PAX, Boomerang, E! Style, Hall-
mark and Reality TV. However, the
following channels will be added to the
CAT-TV line-up: College Sports TV,
FX, MSNBC, Spike and Women’s En-
tertainment. .

Davidson College has requested
Campus Televideo’s earliest possible
conversion date. At present, itis unclear
exactly when Campus Televideo can
schedule the conversion. We hope still
to meet our target date of Fall Break for
full, trouble-free cable service. Watch
the CAT-TV_ website (http://
www2.davidson.edu/its/cattv/
catty _home.asp) for the latest status
updates and conversion schedules. In
the meantime, please use the web form
to report problems with reception, es-
pecially “freezing” of channels.

ITS personnel will service the receiv-
ers during weekday business hours.
They are not able to provide nighttime
or weekend service so channels may re-
main frozen until the next business
day. f

Although disappointing, glitches and
malfunctions are to be expected in new
technological projects of this scope.
Anticipation of technical problems and
service disruption is one reason RLO is
not passing cable costs on to students
during this first year.

Be assured that RLO, ITS, Physical
Plant and Campus Televideo are all
working diligently to correct problems
as quickly as is possible. In the mean-

Davidson College,

NY OPPONENT OFFERS

A
"TART WILL DO NoTui, HALT Che

G To LoweR CO

time, we appreciate your continued pa-

Campus Televideo  tience.

will eliminate . .

Dish Network Leslie M. Marsicano
channels from our

Assc. Dean of Students

line-up and con- ; : .
Director, Residence Life

vert our service to

The Davidsonian welcomes
and strongly encourages
letters to the editor.
sions of less

_ Please e-mail sub

In a flood of opinions, ride your own raft

By Ros Ruscu
Staff Columnist

In this day and time, society often decapitates logic with the
bitter swipe of a double-edged sword. With contradictions and
stereotypes abound, we are given a thousand subtle sugges-
tions, each with their own unclear.purpose, while at the same
time we are told how to defy those very concepts. The thin red
line between right and wrong is blurred beyond comprehen-
sion by the double standards of society, leaving many to drown
in the anxiety of hazy choices and stuttering consciences.

To understand such a maze, one must find the source of the
double standard. Inevitably such contradictions lie in the in-
herent freedom of the human mind and the surrounding me-
dium with which to project such freedom. Today we see such
expressions widely broadcast on TV and in magazines and more
localized in a city function or even the general way an indi-
vidual acts. Each of these, from a Saturday sitcom to a precari-
ous sentence, provides us with specific stimuli and work tomeld
our character. Each represents a standard. Together, all these
standards embody the standard of society. Every action we
take is incorporated into the equation that calculates society’s
standard, while at the same time, society’s standard factors into

our own personal equation of standard. This fluctuation of
inputs and outputs invariably creates a world with contradic-
tions and double standards as free ideas run rampant, stimulat-
ing reactions and creating new bounds for morality.

Society is a living creature evolving with the individuals
that make it up. Political, economical, personal, and religious
disagreements create knowledge pools of conflicting infor-
mation. Each side stresses the fact that it is right and urges the
rest of society to join its cause. This action is actually healthy
for society as a whole. Conflict spurs the evolution of new
ideas and general advancements in morality and technology.

However, as an individual; you, me, she, and he; one often
falls into the abyssal sea between these varying rights and
wrongs. The deluge of opinions often drowns one in confu-
sion, complicating the choice of right and wrong. This can
often lead to stress when making and decision and likely to
guilt once adecision has been made. No matter what one does,
someone will find it wrong and someone will find it right. In
this world of double standards, one must find their own stan-
dard. One cannot accept the myriad of ideas floating across
the sky; they are only there to consider. Each has to accept
what they believe and how they believe it, standing stoically
firm in an ocean of honest deceit and bitter half-truths.
