Che #

@ “THE SOUTHS POR: EI

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

hye

*.. ey,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2004

First CLass
U.S. PostaGe Pain
Permit #1
Davipson, NC

ISP COLLEGE WEEKLY” @

2 we

VOLUME 95, NUMBER 15

$1.7 million
soccer stadium
expected by fall

New location risks decrease
in game attendance

By ADAM MarTIN _

Admissions braces for record high apps

College to firmly ‘hold the
line’at 460 incoming fresh-
men, restoring smaller
class sizes

By BRANDON CARROLL

Senior Staff Writer

The success of fundraising efforts over
the last two years will bring the Varsity
Men’s and Women’s Soccer teams a new
$1.7 million stadium hopefully int time for
the fall 2004 season.

The new facility will sit directly over the
current varsity soccer field, behind the F
senior apartment, and will come complete
with lights, locker rooms, concessions,
restrooms and 2,000 seats.

“Construction is starting right away with
the goal to be ready for games this fall,” said

Jim Murphy 78, Director of Athletics.

According to Murphy, the final plans have
not yet been selected, but the preliminary
work, which involves resculpting the current
field, will begin immediately. ?

“This is a massive step forward for our
program,” said Matt Spear ’93, the Men’s
Varsity Soccer Coach.

In years past, Varsity Soccer teams have
had to switch back and forth from their
current “lightless” field to Richardson
stadium for most of their scheduled home
games.

These transitions involved the sharing
and transforming of Richardson Stadium
for games, including removing goalposts,

see Stadium, page 5

Managing Editor

The class of 2008—next year’s freshmen—
figures to be the most competitive class in
Davidson history.

At the end of last week, the Admissions of-
fice had received 4,079 completed applications,
Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Nancy
Cable said. The number might creep higher
after some applications now only partially
complete are received.

This represents 150 more applications than
last year’s 3,927, which set a record 16 percent
increase over the previous high. Rather than a
single-year anomaly, the increase now appears
part of a trend.

Cable said national trends are partially driv-
ing the increase in applications, but that

4500

2500

Last year ’s admissions officers struggled with stacks of

tae es

applications. Even more applicants this year will strain Admissions.

“frankly, the quality of our current student body
and the faculty are driving it. They are ever
more national and ever more diverse.”
Director of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano
has coped with a hous-
ing crunch from this
year’s record freshmen
class. She has just one
plea for Admissions,
“Let’s hold the line.”
Marsicano said she had
been told to expect 460
to 465 students, the low
end for .a typical
- Davidson class size.
Political Science
Professor Lou
Ortmayer confirmed
that President Vagt had

capped the maximum number of incoming
students at 460, down from 465 in the fall.
Ortmayer is chair of the Faculty Committee of
Admissions and Financial Aid.

Cable said it is important “not to press one
class to rebalance.”

Early Decision

Making Davidson even more selective this
year is the fact that nearly 190 of those spots
have already been filled by Early Decision ap-
plicants.

Out of Early Decision I, 151 are confirmed
to be in next year’s class. They represent a
highly qualified and talented mix of students,
and were drawn from a pool over 300 appli-
cants. Early Decision II should add 37 students,
and those decisions were mailed this week. In

see Admissions, page 4

Administration strives to increase diversity among faculty

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

As Davidson College attempts to incorpo-
rate more underrepresented groups into its
predominantly white student body, the admin-
istration is also working to attain a more de-
mographically diverse faculty.

In order to help encourage this movement,
two faculty members from other institutions
that have made progress in diversifying their
own faculty recently visited Davidson.

As part of these visits, Davidson faculty and
administration reviewed several recruitment
strategies that could be used to attract a variety
of candidates for faculty positions to the col-
lege.

One strategy that has been in consideration

been?

ARTS 8. LIVING, PAGE 6

Where have
these hands

since before the arrival of the visiting consult-
ants is the plan to be open to possible curricu-
lar change.

According to this approach, when academic
departments design an advertisement for a fac-
ulty position, they should consider how the
courses and needs advertised will be received
by minority candidates.

Departments should also be willing to ad-
just the position to better fita candidate’s back-
ground and educational training.

Clark Ross, Vice President of Academic
Affairs and Dean of Faculty, hopes departments
will comply with this suggestion.

“We hope they will make an effort, to the
extent possible, to design adds that will show
flexibility in course offerings and be attractive
to minority candidates,” Ross said.

This movement is not in response to a par-
ticular event but is rather a culmination of
Davidson’s efforts over the last 20 years to
diversify its faculty.

While the school has made progress in inte-
grating female faculty, Ross says that ithas been
more difficult to achieve the goal of integrat-
ing minority faculty members.

With a flexible curriculum, Davidson will
be able to offer courses that might better coin-
cide with the academic interests of some of the
candidates for faculty positions.

“You have to make the position attractive,
and the curriculum is one way to do that,” said
Ross.

Ross pointed out that students, both major-
ity and minority, have also expressed desires
for creating greater diversity both among the

faculty and within the curriculum of various
departments.

Sean Chan ’06 said, “Diversity in the fac-
ulty and the in the curriculum is integral in any
educational environment, because as young
and maturing adults, we are for the most part
still trying to find out who we are and where
we want to go.

“Diversity, including race, gender, political
affiliation, and even hobbies, helps to give a
balanced approach to education, especially
a“‘liberal’ education, while also revealing top-
ics of interests to students who might not oth-
erwise have been exposed to them.”

Departmental willingness for curricular
change is only one of a number of strategies
that Davidson is currently employing to at-
tract a more diverse faculty.

SPORTS: Cat Pack bursting with school spirit

The Yowl:
It's back: .-.

HUMOR, PAGE 9

The latest
from DCPC

" (Asi, PAGES
