4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NeEws

Political organizations.
gear up for election season

By Jackit MCKEON
Staff Writer

Both the Young Democrats and College
Republicans saw increased membership and
interest during their first meetings last Tues-
day as they began preparing for the 2004 elec-
tion year.

Due to lack of space in the original meeting
room, the Young Democrats were forced to
move to the 900 Room of the Union.

“More than 115 people were at the meeting,”
said last year’s Young Democrats President,
McLean Quinn ‘05.

About 60 people attended the College Re-
publicans meeting.

“Our membership has increased 35 percent
since last week,” said College Republicans
President Joseph Adams ’06.

Both organzations are providing a variety of
outlets for political activism this fall.

In addition to watching the Presidential and
Vice Presidential debates, the Young Demo-
crats and College Republicans will facilitate a
series of campus-wide debates.

These debates are seen as a way to “encour-
age dialogue,” said Trey Skinner ’07, secre-
tary of the College Republicans.

One debate will happen on the balconies of
Philanthropic (Phi) Hall and Eumenean (Eu)
Hall, bringing back a Davidson political de-
bating tradition dating back to 1873.

Another debate, sponsored by Dean Rusk,
will occur in late October and will feature the
topic of foreign policy.

‘Our purpose is to represent the
Republican Party and its principles.
Bush has offered clear and consistent
leadership to this country in times of
uncertainty.’

--Joseph Adams ’06, College
Republicans president

Another primary objective of both organi-
zations is to promote voter registration oncam-
pus.

“We hope to ensure that as many Davidson
students get out to vote as possible through
persistent voter registration drives,” said
Quinn.

“There are a lot of undecided voters on this
campus. I would say I have no less than five
people come by my room every day to talk
about the elections,” said Adams.

In addition to voter registration drives, Col-
lege Republicans plan to lead a nonpartisan
question and answer session for all interested
students. ;

They hope that this would give students the

opportunity to learn more about their candi-
dates in the upcoming Presidential and Sena-
torial elections

The Young Democrats will be working
closely with the new organization, Davidson

Students for Kerry-Edwards, founded by An-.

drew Yancy ’05.

“We are simply encouraging people to sup-
port two men, John Kerry and John Edwards,
and make an effort over the next two months to
elect them President and Vice President of the
United States,” said Yancy.

Students for Kerry/Edwards and other
groups on campus are working to provide trans-
portation to the polls on November 2.

The Young Democrats will also direct their

-

‘President Bush and the GOP have
steered this country in a new and
radical direction that violently
diverges from the ideology of most
Americans. The Davidson College
Young Democrats are an .
organization...who want to get the
country back on the right track.’
--McLean Quinn ’05
former Young Democrats president

efforts off-campus. Interested members will be
volunteering for Democratic campaigns in
Charlotte this fall.

Will Kincheloe, a campaign representative
for'U.S. senatorial candidate Erskine Bowles,
was present at the Young Democrats meeting.
He praised the students that have already con-
tributed to Democratic campaigns, and urged
others to become involved.

A new group of Young Democrats leaders
were elected at the meeting. Taylor Ansley ’07
and Chris Burks 07 will serve as co-presidents,
among many other newly-elected student lead-
ers.

The College Republicans elected their offi-
cials last spring.

Both organizations seemed ready fora lively
campaign on campus.

“Our purpose on campus is not to counteract

the Young Democrats. Our purpose is to repre-

sent the Republican Party and its principles.
Bush has offered clear and consistent leader-
ship to this country i in times of uncertainty,”
said Adams.

Quinn agreed that the Young Democrats’
purpose was not to work again the Republi-
cans.

“President Bush and the GOP have steered
this country in a new and radical direction that
violently diverges from the ideology of most
Americans. The Davidson College Young

"Democrats are an organization for students and

staff who want to get the country back on the
right track,” Quinn said.

Fd

#

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2004

al Senos

CAMERON SCHOOL
OF BUSINESS

MSA

Master of Science in Accountancy
Have you thought about a career in public accounting,
corporate accounting, or management consulting?
Do you want to be a CPA?

VEGGIE MELT - - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES — CAESAR SALAD
GRILLED CHEESE - ESE IDE ‘SOUP

All undergraduate majors welcome. Our 10-month, full-time MSA program
begins in August. We offer an excellent teaching faculty, smaller classes,
lower tuition, and excellent financial assistance opportunities,
Cameron School of Business is accredited by AACSB,

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE Applications are due April 1; early applications are encouraged.

HOMEMADE ORANGEADE. LEMONADE AND LIMEADE
"bet you didn't think of US

for vegetarian fare!
896-7743 _ 910-962-3903 or ericksonk@unew.edu

All major accounting firms recruit at UNCW.
For information, come to the Davidson College September
Career Fair or contact Kathy Erickson

“Eat-in Take-out
Z . ee eng: Sat-Thur 8-8 ‘Fri 8-9 ee
104 S$ MAIN ST. “Davison: NC . an EEOIAA insitation

bon we eee ee ee eee ee ee eee a ee eee rr re

