16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

Football ends losing streaks with tough homecoming win

By STEPHEN HALLIDAY
Staff Writer

After an 0-2 start to the season, the football team returned
to Davidson for their home-opener and homecoming match-
up against Butler looking to notch their first win of the year
and break a six-game losing streak dating back to last year.
Despite several injuries, including one to quarterback Damion
White ’05, the ’Cats responded with a 21-14 win against But-
ler behind a 100-yard, two touchdown performance from John
Leverett ’05 and a dominating game from safety Kevin
Saunders ’05,

With the win over Butler the ’Cats also won for the first
time at Richardson Stadium since Oct. 26, 2002, a span of six
home games.

Beaux Jones ’08 relied on the rushing of John Leverett ’05 and others to lead the Wildcats.

The win this week was accomplished by a good all-around
team effort, including an efficient ball-control offense and a
strong defensive against both the run and pass.

On offense, John Leverett ’05, Jonathon Hubbard”07 and
Christian Hunt ’05 ran for a combined 181 yards rushing.
Leverett led on the ground for his ninth career 100-yard rush-
ing game. Leverett also had a great day returning kicks, with
75 yards on two returns to give the "Cats good field position
and momentum following Butler scoring drives.

White was effective in the first half, going 9 of 13 for 93
yards and one interception before going down with a sprained
foot. He was unable to return to the game, and is listed as day
to day. Freshman Quarterback Beaux Jones ’07 played the
entire second half; and though he did not put up big numbers,
he managed the offense well and led the team on the game

winning scoring drive late in the third quarter. Head coach
Mike Toop said Jones “did enough for us to win the game,
and did a good job of playing within the system and making
good decisions.”

The defense had by far their best game thus far, forcing two
turnovers and effectively stopping both the run and pass. The
strongest performance came from Saunders, who, after miss-
ing last week’s game with an injury, recorded nine tackles and

-an interception in the red zone late in the game, earning him

honors as the PFL defensive player of the week.

Despite the loss of Jim Walter ’07 early in the game with an
ankle injury, the defense rallied to record four sacks, and shut
down the passing game with great efforts by cornerbacks Yeatts
Anderson ’06 and Frankie Jones’”’05. Alex Arinsmier ’06 led
the team in tackles, and Brendan Dete”’05 recorded four tack-
les in addition to recording his first career interception. Coach
Toop said of the defense ““We made some good adjustments at
half-time and played much better all-around.”

On a positive side note, the Butler player that went down
with a neck injury late in the fourth quarter was able to ride
back with the team on Saturday. The player was motionless
on the field for over twenty minutes before being carted off in
an ambulance, but after being checked out briefly in the hos-
pital was cleared to go home with a clean bill of health.

Next week the ’Cats look to build upon their momentum
with a tough match-up with the 3-1 Dayton Fliers, who are
ranked second among Division 1-AA mid-majors. Dayton is
coming off two straight shutouts, including a 40-0 win over
Austin Peay last Saturday. The Wildcats are looking for re-
venge against the Fliers, however, after a heart-breaking 32-
25 last-second home loss to Dayton at home a year ago.

In preparation for this game, Toop wants to improve the
kickoff coverage, and he hopes the defense comes out strong
and that the running game can pound the Flier defense into
the fourth quarter.

Furthermore, according to Toop, the defense missed a few
tackles this week, and that’s something that the’ Cats can’t
afford to do against a team like Dayton. The offense will also
need to avoid turning the ball over, as they gave up three more
turnovers this week in a trend that has plagued the’’Cats all
season.

Field Hockey splits two games over weekend homestand

Wildcats dominate Catawba, but fall
to NorPac rival Radford, 1-0

By Britt MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

After starting the season with five games on the road, field

hockey returned to Davidson for three games, including two
this past week, before heading off again on another four game
road stint. The Wildcats were hoping the support from the
home crowd would help them improve their 1-4 record over-
all and their 0-1 mark in the Nor-Pac Conference.

The Wildcats played flawlessly in their first two games,
overpowering the Longwood Lancers 5-1 and trouncing the
Indians of Catawba 11-2. They were unable to continue their
success in their important Sunday match-up against Nor-Pac
foe Radford.

Catawba arrived Tuesday at Belk Turf Field anxious for
their first victory, but the Wildcats showed no mercy as they
hammered Catawba to drop the Indians to 0-7 on the season.
Eleanor Cowley ‘08, a member of the highly-touted freshmen
class, was the first to score for the Wildcats, and freshman

see Field Hockey, page 14

Field hockey dropped an important NorPac match-up at home vs. Radford, 1-0, on Sunday.

BO ft 0

Player of the Week

Kevin Saunders ‘os

Football
Hometown: Roanoke, Virginia

Major: Biology
Senior safety Kevin Saunders was named PFL defensive player
~ of the week after anchoring the sound defensive effort for the
« ‘Cats in the 21-14 victory against Butler on Saturday. Saunders
had nine tackles, forced a fumble, and most importantly, inter-
cepted a Bulldog pass at the goal-line to preserve the victory.

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Volleyball won the first two games against Gardner-Webb on Tuesday in
relative ease, 30-21 and 30-19. In the third game, the Runnin’ Bulldogs
had two game points to climb back into the match at 2-1, but Davidson
rallied to even the score at 30-30. Liz Williamson '07 then notched her

team-high 17th putaway of the match to give the Wildcats a 34-32 victory.

- The win moved Davidson to 4-14 on the season, including two victories in

their past three matches.
