8 __ THE DAVIDSONIAN

RTS &

ee

‘Hellboy’: Rasputin and

Nazis fail to scare

By STEVE KALIsKI
Senior Staff Writer

When a movie begins with hordes of Nazis
hfring Grigori Rasputin (yes, of the mad Rus-
sian monk fame) to unlock an occult portal to
Hell that will unleash a demon with the key to
provoking Armageddon, you know you prob-
ably should’ ve thought twice before buying that
theater ticket.

You also know that what you are about to
see will undoubtedly be absurdly and unabash-
edly interesting. “Hellboy,” the latest bombas-.
tic attempt to bring Marvel’s most beloved
comic books to the big screen, is nothing if not
embarrassingly worthwhile.

Borrowing most noticeably from “Men in
Black” and “X-Men,” “Hellboy” provides
some very skilled summer-lite entertainment.
While never reaching the same visual and ki-
netic heights of some of its superhero prede-
cessors, it adequately passes the time with an
intriguing plot and a charismatic title charac-
ter. As Hellboy himself, Ron Perlman revisits
the same nonchalant animal magnetism that
gave him his big break in 1987’s famous
“Beauty and the Beast” TV miniseries.

But back to that whole thing about Rasputin.
The maniacal monk, played by Karel Roden
(as if he had memorized “The Idiot’s Guide to
Superhero Movie Villains” before the shoot),
succeeds in opening the mystical portal long
enough for an infant demon to sneak into our
world. The plan goes awfully wrong for the
silly Nazis, however, and the adorable Hellboy
falls into the hands of the American good guys.

Taken back to the mainland and raised by
the mysterious Professor Bruttenholm (John
Hurt) at the FBI Bureau of Paranormal Re-
search and Defense, Hellboy develops into a
nifty little crime fighter. Kept under a shroud
of secrecy, the FBI enlists his mighty services
only when the opposition gets otherworldly.
Since one of the first things we all learned about
Russian history was that after poison, gunshots,

and drownings, Grigori Rasputin still refused .

to die, director Guillermo del Toro doesn’t
waste time in rousing this vicious adversary
from the dead. Still determined to capture
Hellboy and open the portal to the dark king-
dom, the great showdown between good and

Perlman shows Selma Blair some
special affection.

Ron Perlman as ‘Hellboy’
evil begins.

But oh, there’s so much more to this movie
than just that. While saving the world from
Armageddon is a relatively consuming task,
Hellboy still finds time to search for himself
amidst the social ruins of American society.
He files down his horns to look more like areal
man. He throws back a six pack of Bud Lights
on a park bench and dreams about the time in
which his freakishly pyrotechnic dream girl
(Selma Blair) will escape from the insane asy-
lum and elope with him.

In all seriousness, however,*the greatest
strength of “Hellboy” is its reverent fidelity to
the comic book spirit. The most compelling
superheroes have always been the most vul-
nerable, and Hollywood has done a splendid
job recently in capturing this sentiment.
Hellboy joins the sadly persecuted X-Men, the
angsty and hormonal Peter Parker, and the
emotionally ravaged Hulk as some of the most
engaging superheroes with otherwise serious
personal issues.

Del Toro briskly and deftly navigates his way
through the playful action, but Perlman de-
serves the most credit for separating this movie
from the rest of the crop..The next morning,
you’ ll probably remember scenes of Hellboy
sharing girl problems with a thirteen year-old
more than the monumental showdowns be-
tween Nazis, immortal Russians, and ademon
with a heart of gold.

Bilingual lecture exemplifies

cultural misunderstanding

By JessicA STRAUS
Staff Writer

Last Friday night, Cuban-American author
Roberto G. Fernandez discussed his writing and

personal experiences. Professor Mary’

Vasquez, Professor Carlos Rivera and Profes-
sor Hernandez-Chiroldes, made his visit to the
Davidson community possible.

Fernandez’s writing is influenced by his
Cuban-American heritage. He calls himself-a
“bicultural writer” who is “working at a bicul-
tural moment.” Rather than a “translation
writer,” Fernandez writes in English and inter-
mingles Spanish. The bilingualism of his work
allows him greater faculty with his words be-
cause he can draw on two languages. Fernandez
hopes to target a bilingual audience.

His intended audience is very clear in his
book “Raining Backwards.” His book explores
the “Cuban Diaspora” through an assortment
of quirky, clever characters and by specifically
addressing Cuban-Americans living in Miami.
Despite the importance of the characters, the
true protagonist is the Miami Cuban culture,
which can only be truly understood by those
who possess the “database,” or the intimate
familiarity with Miami-Cuban culture.

Fernandez creates an insider space - a nod
to his fellow Cuban-Americans - while also dis-
tancing the rest of the American population.
Alternatively, by focusing on this specific
community, he raises its importance in the
mainstream American social conscience. He
deftly creates this juxtaposition of alienation
and inclusion in his novel.

As aspeaker, I wish that he could have com-
municated the same emotional depth to his live
audience. Fernandez spoke to a group of about
40 Davidson College'and community mem-
bers. Fernandez began speaking in English. He
spoke about the “Cuban Diaspora” (an apt

adaptation of a term usually used in conjunc-

tion with the Jewish exile from Babylon and
subsequent scattered settlement of the area
around Palestine). The Cuban Diaspora is a
central exploration point for Fernandez. He
communicated this exploration with the audi-
ence by reading excerpts from “Raining Back-
wards.”

This is when Fernandez may have lost some
of his audience. He began reading without
providing the necessary background context
for his excerpts. His most interesting readings
were parts where he had translated Spanish
idioms into English, which would have been
incredibly funny to someone familiar with
Spanish, English and his book.

The second part of his talk was spoken en-
tirely in Spanish. In his effort to access his
bilingual audience, his monolingual audience
was left wondering whether they should try to
decipher some meaning from his intonation. It
is unfortunate that so much of what Fernandez
had to say was lost in the abyss of miscommu-
nication.

Speakers and writers should make it a prior-
ity to access their audience rather than expect
the audience to wholly understand. The ability
to engage with and listen to any audience is
essential in gaining perspective and affecting
change.

Fernandez andhis Friday night audience may
have missed an important opportunity to be-

“come involved in a reciprocal conversation. In

every encounter between a writer and his au-
dience, the chance for a vital exchange exists,
that allows both parties to reformulate things
that were previously unquestioned.

Within his writing, Fernandez does revisit
those unquestioned things. His wordplay with
English and Spanish translations comment on
how easily the two cultures can misunderstand
each other. It is important for Fernandez to try
and actively fix this lack of communication that
he sees so clearly.

Aa nets east
