THE DavIDSONIAN

isic Hermes &
Janelle

Viilanes

PERSPECTIVES

‘WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 11

John Kerry flips, sometimes also flops

By JoserH ADAMS
Staff Columnist

In the same week that President Bush surveyed hurricane
damage in Florida and led disaster relief efforts there, John Kerry
also made landfall in Florida, criticizing President Bush’s per-

formance as commander-in-chief and again revising his
campaign’s Iraq policy.

While it is true that tomorrow night’s debate between Presi-
dent Bush and his opponent will focus on the
DE ISION foreign policies of the two candidates, Kerry
2 OG will likely attempt to shift the debate to a
F vi tty of President Bush’s leadership i in

Iraq and the broader war against terrorism.
If one is to listen to Senator Kerry’s complaints about Presi-
dent Bush’s so-called “mismanagement” of Iraq and the war
against terrorism, then one should also explore Senator Kerry’s

troubling record on foreign policy in recent years.

Many supporters of John Kerry clamor to his side because
they believe he is a peace-loving man who lacks the reckless-
ness—some call it courage—to defend our country by sending
American troops into harm’s way. His supporters reaffirm their
commitment to his campaign by embracing his staunch oppo-
sition to the doctrine of preemption.

But does John Kerry really believe what his supporters think
he does? In 1997, Kerry criticized President Clinton for not
being sufficiently forceful against the regime of Saddam
Hussein, arguing that the United States should “take preemp-
tive action whenever we feel it’s in our national interest.”

This line of reasoning, advocated by Kerry more than four
years before the September 11 terrorist attacks, was both pre-
scient and prudent. Had it not been for Senator Kerry’s decision
to tie his candidacy’s positions to polls instead of principles,
the foreign policy issue in this campaign may well have been
that Senator Kerry better understood the terrorist threat and the
danger lurking in Saddam Hussein’s Iraq before September 11
than did President Bush Senator Kerry also inspires his base by
repeatedly talking of “launching and leading a new era of alli-
ances” and arguing that the United States should not rely upon
“coalitions of the willing,” as President Bush admiringly calls
our friends and allies throughout the world.

Kerry claims that he can “restore credibility to the White
House” and “reach out” to nations like France and Russia, whom
he slanderously claims are not helping us in the war on terror.
Is Senator Kerry’s plan for expanding American power in the
world to continually refer to nations such as Great Britain, Italy,
and Japan as a “coalition of the coerced and bribed?”

Kerry emphatically says that the United States “can’t count
on France [or] Russia,” yet Exhibit A in his case against Presi-
dent Bush’s war in Iraq is that the United States failed to get
France or Russia to commit troops to the liberation of the Iraqi
people. If Senator Kerry continues to believe that taking every
position on every issue will carry him to the White House, then
he will lose this election in a landslide.

Alexander Hamilton once observed that “he who stands for
nothing, falls for anything.”” The American people stand for
freedom, security, and integrity. Over the last four years and in
the next four years to come, President Bush stands with us.

Kerry has a plan to ‘Win the Peace’ in Iraq

By Joe REED
Staff Columnist

The debate over the war in Iraq, both in the national political

arena and in the media, seems to me to be focused almost en- (_

tirely on the wrong issue. The most impor-
tant question now concerning Iraq is not
whether the American-led coalition should
or should not have invaded that country; that
is a policy debate whose currency has long since expired. Of
course, that question does bear some relevance to the current
election in that the candidates’ answers to it shed some light on
their philosophy of foreign policy, but a far more important and
far more urgent question concerns what should be done now to
ensure the freedom and security of the Iraqi people.

Senator John F. Kerry laid out a comprehensive plan for the
rebuilding of Iraq in a September 20 speech at New York Uni-
versity. After speaking at length on the problems currently faced
in Iraq—the large and increasing number of monthly troop
deaths, the growing number of terror attacks, the worsening
living conditions, and others—and criticizing the Bush
Administration’s actions at every step of the way as inept and
reckless, Senator Kerry turns his attention to his own four-point
plan to “win the peace” in Iraq.

The first point of this plan is the internationalization of the
Iraqi conflict. To this end, Senator Kerry proposes that the
President convene ‘“‘a summit meeting of the world’s major

pay
oo

powers and Iraq’s neighbors” to both insist that they provide
the financial support promised under U.N. Resolution 1546 and
give them incentive to do so in the form of a possible invest-
ment role in Iraq’s oil infrastructure. Kerry’s second main idea
involves accelerating the training of Iraqi security forces, both
police and military. Given that only 5,000 of these vital secu-
rity personnel have been fully trained, Kerry’s proposals to
expand and standardize police and military training, vastly
increase the number of trainers (particularly from our allies),
and improve the quality and efficiency of training, seem long
overdue. As does his third point, on the necessity of designing
a “reconstruction plan that finally provides tangible benefits to
the Iraqi people.”

To do this, he suggests that America reprioritize spending in
Iraq towards “high-visibility, quick-impact projects” to bring
visible.benefits to Iraqis on the local level, and also make a
concerted effort to involve more Iraqis in the rebuilding of their
country. Fourth, Kerry argues that it is essential for the presi-
dent to “‘take...steps to ensure the promised elections can be
held next year.” Among these steps would be forming an inter-
national U.N. protection force to ensure security in the elec-
tions and undertaking the responsibility of helping to establish
long-term constitutional stability in Traq.

In short, then, Senator Kerry has now articulated a clear and
substantive vision for the future of Iraq. Whether you agree
with his plan or not, hopefully it will at least (and at last) move
the debate on Iraq towards the future and away from the past.

These guys don’t regret choosing to live on

By Carey BAXTER
Guest Columnist

The first year guys living substance free on the third floor of
Cannon dormitory want everyone to consider dispelling the
sub-free stigma, if only for a moment.

“Dating Advice” from The Yowl section of the September 1
issue of The Davidsonian stated: “If you live in the Substance
Free Living Option, it is important to tell everyone that either
your parents made you live there or that you did not choose it,
but there was no room in the traditional residence halls so the
school forced you. If not, be ready for a long, lonely, sexually
frustrating year.”

In response to this, Matt Scott, a safety for the Davidson
football team, summoned me to have a chat with him and his
hall-mates that would allow me to eloquently enlighten The
Davidsonian reading audience with some stereotype-busting
facts about the lives of these sub-free gentlemen:

First of all, the guys I talked to ee for themselves to live
in Substance Free Housing.

“We all chose to do it,” said Blake Poole.

And they’ re not afraid to defend that choice.

“Why sub-free? How about why drink?” asked Poole.

“We don’t look down on it. We don’t see the reason for it.”

But this certainly doesn’t mean that the guys don’t party. A
resounding chorus of “oh yeah” met my inquiry as to whether
they go down to Patterson Court.

But when they go to parties they want to remember every- -

thing. Instead of a drunken alter ego, “it’s better if you are there,”

said Matt Scott.

“You don’t have to get drunk to have fun with drunk people,”
said Ersag Keskin.

Anders Wells, whose family is in the alcohol business, said
he can understand drinking alcohol but not to excess. “I have
areal problem with alcohol abuse,” he said. It shows a lack of
respect for alcohol, yourself, and your friends, who have to
take care of you.

“You gotta take care of yourself,” said Chris Burton.

“I’ve seen too many people do sick things when they’ re
wasted,” said Craig Pickett.

Even though they may not relish being around drunk or
drugged people—“It’s sloppy. It really isn’t cute, and a lot of
girls don’t know that,” said Matt Scott— the girls still find them,
they claim. .

“They come down on their own,” said Matt Scott.

Around this point Burton made a cell phone call. Soon,
Whitney White walked into the lounge where we were all con-
gregated. “You needed me to prove a point . . .” she said upon
entry.

Laughter erupted. Not so smooth. I told White why I was
there, and she replied, “They are awesome, so I don’t mind.”

Obviously, third Cannon is home to some really cool and
very interesting guys.

These are the guys who donned war paint and ripped their
shirts for the Freshman Olympics. Not only that, they bellowed
warrior chants and used an upturned trash can as a kind of tribal
drum. The guys won third place, or, as they would have it, they
“tied for second” but lost in sudden death.

-

a substance-free hall

Burton is a disc jockey on Sundays at 8 p.m. on Walt 1610
AM. He also likes to rap on occasion.

“T picked sub-free because I hate smoking,” said Burton.

“Sub-free doesn’t mean we can’t have a good time.”

Peter Simov, the quiet, unassuming Bulgarian guy, blasts 50
Cent in his dorm room.

Sammy Kim, a very quiet fellow with a dorm room sparse
enough for an ascetic, was born in South Korea but now lives
in Santo Domingo of the Dominican Republic.

He speaks three languages (Korean, Spanish, and English),
and he lives in Santo Domingo because his parents are mission-
aries.

“He’s a refugee from Cambodia,” quipped Keskin. “We
smuggled him out of the Vietnam War.”

And then there’s Ersag Keskin, who knows almost half ofhis
fellow first year students by name.

“Tf you haven’t met Ersag, you haven’t lived. He’s the Turk-
ish delight in town,” said Byron Miller.

“TJ met one girl on campus that didn’t know Ersag,” said Matt
Scott.

“And she was deaf,” finished J.C. Boyle.

English is not his first language, yet “he knows more idiom-
atic expressions than we do,” said Chris Goldrick.

So maybe pause and think before you judge and dismiss a
fascinating person who just happens to enjoy sobriety. Imagine
that.

There’s always that stereotype that sub-free students are going
to become “cornballs and nerds,” said Burton. “But we have
our fun down here.”
