Davidson violinists and competition winners will perform solo,. duet

Student violinists to serenade
Davidson College audience

By SARAH RoBINSON
Staff Writer

Every fall semester, the Music Department
holds a Concerto/Aria Competition semester
for the chance for students to perform a solo or
duet with the Davidson College Symphony
Orchestra (DCSO). This year’s winners will
perform a solo by Jean Sibelius and a duet by
Johann Sebastian Bach. The solo will be per-
formed by violinist Brian Conaway ’06 and the
duet by Susan Stroebel ’04 and Lee Ballard
°07 (also violinists). All three have chosen
pieces that allow them to combine their love of
music and their technique, so that they may
entertain the audience with history as well as
harmony.

Stroebel started playing when she was three
and a half, and attended an arts school from
fifth to twelfth grade. Conaway has been play-
ing for over fourteen years, starting with his
parents’ suggestion and then continuing once
he fell in love with music. On the other hand,
Ballard started after watching a concert on
television and seeing a solo violinist.

The concerto winners have a unique oppor-
tunity to perform for the student population and
show their ability as violinists. For the audi-
tions, the musicians were accompanied by pi-
ano. Now, the three players have rehearsed with
DCSO, working to adjust the sound for har-
mony. Stroebel says the experience has taught

her that, “communication is really the key to
working with a larger group as a duet. Notonly
do Lee and Ihave to be onthe same wavelength
at every moment, but also have to be sensitive
to the orchestra.”

When choosing the music, the three choose
compositions that would challenge them and
were arranged by composers whom they ad-
mired. Since Ballard liked the third movement
and Stroebel liked the second movement of
Bach’s Concerto for Two Violins, they decided
to perform all three movements. Ballard states,
“Bach always has engaging textures and driv-
ing rhythms, as well as creating space and
beautiful melodies that hang in the air. His
mood tends to be more consistent within the
movements than Beethoven or the Romantics.”

Conaway, who also composes, states, “the
Serenades are very lyrical and melancholy, and
Sibelius’s orchestration is very unique. He
ranks right up there with Mahler and Berlioz
on my list of favorite composers.” He will
perform Serenatas One and Two. The two dif-
ferent pieces will compliment each other in
their styles and from their contrasting musical
periods (while Bach is from the Baroque Pe-
riod, Sibelius wrote in the twentieth century).
The different styles of Bach and Sibelius will
expose the audience to the violin’s versatility.

The concert will be on February 26 “oe
p.m. in Duke and will include the Davidson
College Wind Ensemble.

Snapshots of Davidson

Arts & Living encourages students and faculty to submit creative or

personal photographs for the ‘Snapshots of Davidson’

- LIVING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2004

Southbound 77: Pat Green
sings Texas to Charlotte

By Cannon Hopce
Arts & Living Editor

Since pop music and its breast-baring, mini-
microphone-wearing trolls invaded Nashville,
good country music has completely died. Con-
certs are lip-synched and roughly choreo-
graphed, and today’s lyrics are so poor that they
consist of nothing more than a simple generic
chorus. Even worse, some “country music”
artists have released cross over albums that
offer both twangy and techno versions of their
lyrically deprived ballads. Lord, whatever is
going to happen to the face of country music?
Where are the songwriters? Where are Steve
Earle, Waylon Jennings and Walt Wilkins hid-
ing? Oh please tell me that they haven’t given
up to those wannabe cowboys who wear black
leather cowboy hats and sing about sexy trac-
tors. Wait - have any of those clowns even
driven a tractor?

Don’t worry, there’s hope.

Conquering the Texas Music world is sim-
pler than taking on Nashville’s megalomania.

Gor

band makes money is by selling tickets - put-
ting butts in the seats and selling T-shirts. That’s
how we make a living.” Thus,'Green’s con-
certs are memorable, unique to each venue and
catered toward any audience.This Friday
night’s show, however, will be in a larger venue.
The Grady Cole Center houses 1,600 fans and
is much larger than Green’s previous concert
locations. This slight change indicates Green’s
recent success.

Green’s music is not typical contemporary
country, and his bandis as eccentric as the Texas
Music capital is. In fact, Green’s band consists
of some of Texas’ finest musicians, and the
band’s influences include Stevie Ray Vaughn,
David Grissom, Mark O’Conner, Nigel
Kennedy, Eddie Bayers, Dwight Yoakum, Old
School Motown, Buck Owens and the High-
way Men. This band is far more eclectic than
your average hackneyed, soap-box produced
pretty boy group dressed in tight jeans.

Honeybrowne, another Texas Country band,
opens for Pat Green. The Austin-based group
has opened for Texas greats Willie Nelson, the

Pat Green and his best friend

Artists like Django Walker, Harris and Ryden,
Cross Canadian Ragweed, Kevin Fowler and
Jack Ingram have a strong Texas following but
rarely venture beyond the state line. Pat Green,
however, has.

He was born a Texas good ole boy and he
certainly has not forgotten his roots. Many of
Pat Green’s Texas fans argue that the Texas
artist has joined the Nashville milieu and mi-
litia, but many others firmly support the Green’ s
move to New York-based Universal Records.

While his Texas concerts regularly sell-out
to audiences of over 100,000, attendance of
Green’s east-coast venues matches that of his
early-day college pub shows. Audiences as
small as 45 have been known to sit on the floor
of some pubs to listen to acoustic duets per-
formed by Green and Walt Wilkins. These
concerts are far more intimate than his Texas
performances, but the energy is still there.

Live concerts are more important to Green
than his radio success. While “Wave on Wave”
ranked #3 on Billboard’s Country Music
Charts, Green maintains that “the goal for our
bandisto kind of be acountry Widespread Panic
or String Cheese Incident. The real way that a

Scabbs and Jack Ingram, and has been touring
with Green for a while. This band has been
called one of the hardest working bands on the
Texas Music scene and is sure to expose North
Carolina to a true Austin sound. Touring with
honeybrowne proves that Pat Green will con-
tinue to fight the overwhelming Nashville ste-
reotypes. Since beginning their February tour,
honeybrowne and Green have sold out in New
Orleans, Aubum and Tallahassee. While North
Carolina usually is inundated with sappy-
soaked Nashville country, Pat Green and
honeybrown will prove that they are talented
and that they did, in fact, appreciate Johnny
Cash before his surge of posthumous popular-
ity. :

Concert Information:

Honeybrowne opening for Pat Green °
Venue: Grady Cole Center

Date: Friday, February 20, 2004
Time: 8:00

Tickets: $18.00

704-336-2884

MOVIE EXTRAS/
MODELS NEEDED

Local and statewide
, productions
No exp. req. all looks ages 18+
Minor and major roles avail.

EARN UP TO $300/DAY
1-800-818-7520

