THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004 3

College begins preparation |
for SACS reaffirmation

Photo courics

PRUPLCAUTLONS

of Colle ge Con

The process of reaffirmation includes a survey of all campus
services from academics to student life.

By Don WILLIAMS
Staff Writer

The office of Planning and Institutional
Research has begun preparations for the re-
newal of Davidson’s accreditation with the
Commission on Colleges, a division of the
Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
(SACS) that certifies institutions of higher
learning in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Ken-
tucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia,
and Latin America.

This process of reaffirmation occurs every
10 years.

Davidson was last reaffirmed in 1996 and
this cycle will be completed in June 2007, as
SACS requested Davidson wait an extra year
because many schools are being reaffirmed for
2006.

The process starts with a comprehensive
survey of all areas of the services provided by
the campus, from academics to campus life.

Director of Planning and Institutional Re-
search Linda LeFauve said, “There are stan-
dards set by SACS that cover everything from
academics to techindlogy to just about every-
thing that could affect the learning process, and

Davidson must show compliance with them.” .

A more comprehensive study of one aspect
of the school, known as a Quality Enhance-
ment Plan, must take place. This study must
look at one area in terms of what it means for
student learning.

This aspect of the reaffirmation process is
relatively new.

Davidson participated in.an early incarna-
tion of the Quality Enhancement Plan in 1996,
when institutions had the option of complet-
ing as few as one to as many as five in-depth

15 MONTH .GOARMY.COM

studies.

Davidson chose to study the maximum five
areas.

The self-study program allows a college to
assess its progress in meeting its long-term
goals and in remaining faithful to its institu-
tional mission.

According to LeFauve, the concept of acom-
prehensive self-study is nothing new to the
college accreditation process; it is widespread
for institutions applying for reaffirmation. All
major accrediting organizations have some
form of a Quality Enhancement Plan.

Community forums and other forms of cam-
pus communication about the progress of the
reaffirmation process will occur in the future.

The college will submit an electronic report
to SACS sometime in the spring of 2006 out-
lining the institution’s compliance with SACS
standards.

This report will be studied by a compliance
review team that will provide feedback and
allow for concerns to be addressed.

The review team will then make a campus
visit in the fall of 2006 and will meet with
members of the administration, faculty, staff
and students.

“If we were not accredited, we would not be
able to receive federal student loans. This would
place us at a significant disadvantage to our
peers,” said President Bobby Vagt.

However, the benefits to the college are not
only monetary.

“The benefit to accreditation is that it pro-
vides an objective, externally vetted appraisal
of how well a school adheres to standards that
all the schools in the accreditation region have
had a hand in shaping,” said LeFauve. “It also
provides an opportunity for each school to take
a good, hard look at itself.”

MECCA, from page 1
courses (101 and 102).

- Students learn through workbooks and ac-
companying DVDs, and then meet with a local
Arabic-speaking person for 2.5 hours a week.

The students meet often to practice speak-
ing skills, much like an AT session for Spanish
or French. That tutor is paid a small sum by the
school.

At the end of the year, an external evaluator
meets with each student to test his or her oral
skills and give a final grade.

SILP also offers Italian, Hindi, Swahili, and
Japanese if a native speaker living in the area
is willing to meet with the students.

Jemison acknowledged that hiring a full-time
faculty member to teach Arabic would not be
an easy process.

“There is no magic wand and we know there
are very real obstacles in bringing an Arabic
professor to Davidson. This is why we are com-
mitted to working with the faculty and the ad-
ministration to work towards this deserving
goal,” he said.

SGA Academic Committee Chairman Jack
Hubbard ’06 met with Jemison last week about
getting SGA support.

Hubbard, who is the junior class president,
said “I’m with him 100%, and we will both be
presenting a resolution in front of SGA in two
weeks.”

MECCA will present their petition and pro-
posal to the Academic Trustee Committee on
Oct. 7.

Jemison foresees several difficulties for the
school: funding a full-time professor’s salary
for a tenure, hiring outside of an existing de-
partment structure because of Davidson’s
“strong democratic faculty,” and deciding that
students will have a sustainable interest in Ara-
bic.

“We believe that the U.S. will be engaged in
the Middle East for many years to come, and

that the need for Arabic is not a passing aca-
demic trend but indeed acritical language that
will find its way into academic institutions
across America,” said Jemison.

MECCA met for the first time a little over3 ~

weeks ago and quickly began its flurry of cam-
paigning, setting up booths in the Union and

“...the need for Arabic is not a
passing academic trend but indeed
acritical language that will find its
way intoacademic institutions across
America.”

--David Jemison

outside of Chambers.

Over 40 students have joined the cultural
organization, different from the religious
group, the Muslim Student Association (MSA)
that began fall 2003.

MECCA plans to promote understanding
and awareness of Middle Eastern culture by
holding a variety of events and services, in-
cluding one big Arabic food and dance festi-
val.

Other events and services they are planning
include screenings of fiction and documentary
Middle Eastern films, an Arabic table at Vail
Commons, a Middle Eastern News email dis-
tribution list, guest lecturers, campus-wide de-
bates, Arabic Tea Time discussions (through
one of the Dean Rusk Center for International
Studies programs), and cosponsoring the
Ramadan ‘id al Fitr celebration with the MSA
and Interfaith.

MECCA’s other officers include Alaa’ Odeh
04 (Vice President), Rob Mark ’08 (Treasurer/
Public Relations Chair), and Megal Atias ’08
(Secretary).

| sornpure™

Standard softwar
Perfigo» Sma

GOT TROUBLES?

foreer * Unified Messaging
— Theres just one number you need to know

29300

Option 2, Follow The Menus

Open Sunday-Thursday, 7-1 0pm
voicemail available 24x7 or emai resnet

kkk

The Fine Print (You knew there would be some): if you'e having problems with
installation or setup, peripherals (digicams, printers, etc.) or unsupported software, we can't help. Call your vendor or the
manufacturer. For a list of supported software, visit our website: http:/www2.davidson.edu/ts/resnet/ .

:SNET!

ireless Networking

games, operating system installation, hardware

