10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS |

as Panthers Assistant

By JacKSON HERLONG
Staff Writer

Dr. Shaw Smith, Davidson professor of art
history, has the unique perspective of being
both a fan and an employee for the home team.
His role with the Carolina Panthers is Home
Team Locker Room Assistant, meaning he
prepares the uniforms and helmets and the like
for the Panthers prior to their home games.
This means that he gets to stand on the side-
lines at the home games, but Smith describes
the experience as “being at work,” rather than
being a fan.

Not to say, he isn’t a fan of the team or the
game. Smith grew up in Davidson, watching
Davidson football games every Saturday he
was home from his family’s traveling magic
show. He served as the team’s water boy for a
number of years and even got his father to get
him some chalk so he could outline a gridiron
in his front yard.

Smith played club football at UNC and was
one of the club’s founders. He and the other
founders had a grandfather clause inserted so
that he could continue to play until he was 33
(he attended UNC as a grad student until then).
His wife, Ann Haley, is as passionate about
football as he is; her father was an all-Ameri-
can at UGA in the 1920s, but turned down an
opportunity to play for the Packers to become
a judge in South Carolina.

Smith achieved his part-time position with
the Panthers through Davidson equipment
manager Dan Morphis, who taught him a lot
and introduced him with Jackie Miles, head
of Panthers Equipment Management Staff.

When asked about what he was most look-
ing forwards to about the Super Bowl, Smith
replied matter-of-factly, “Winning. You don’t
do it just for fun.”

He told his wife in July that he thought the
Panthers would make it to the first round of
the playoffs, and since they have passed that
mark he has greatly enjoyed being proven
wrong. Smith couldn’t predict an exact final
score, but gave an estimate of both teams be-
ing in the 20s, with “the Panthers being on
top, of course.”

He harbors no ill will to the Patriots; in fact,
“T admire them because they were the under-
dogs two years ago, and they’ ve been able to
come back, which is very impressive in this

age of salary caps and free agency. I really.

like their concept of team, and what I think of
when I think of the Patriots is that two years
ago, I was catching punts behind Baker with
ex-Panthers punter Ken Walter, who had been
recently cut by the Panthers and had a preg-
nant wife and no job. Eight months later, Ken
was hugging [Adam] Vinateri after holding for
the winning kick in the Super Bowl.”

Smith makes sure to mention the other Pan-
thers associates who have Davidson connec-
tions, a group of considerable size. Starting
guard Kevin Donnalley played at Davidson
before transferring to UNC and has spent the
past three seasons with the Panthers. Teresa
Jones, a Davidson grad who is a CPA in Char-
lotte, made the jump from Wildcat Cheer-
leader to TopCats, the Panthers’ dancing
squad.
Smith finds one of the most remarkable
things about the Panthers and this season to
be the “changing [sports] culture in the Caro-
linas. Up until now, it’s been all college bas-
ketball, but now the Panthers are showing
everyone that the NFL is just the greatest. The
game requires you to give so much, but it gives
so much back, whether you’re a player, coach,
or fan. It’s one of the reasons we live in the
USA.”

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2004

.

Women swimmers celebrate
‘senior weekend with 3 wins

Sara Laws '04 placed first in the.
- backstroke in her last home meet

By ASHLEIGH FINN
Staff Writer

This past weekend, the swimming and div-
ing team hosted a two-day tournament against
arch rival UNC Wilmington as well as Old
Dominion and William & Mary.

The tournament was especially significant
because it was the seniors’ last home meet.
The pool was packed both Friday evening and
Saturday afternoon with friends and family,
cheering on the senior athletes. .

The women celebrated the weekend with
victories over all three schools. The men’s
team wasn’t able to defeat any of the schools
but had some success in individual and relay
events.

Friday’s meet began at 6 p.m. and ran for a
grueling three hours, with all four schools neck
and neck. The women’s star players placed in
the majority of their races and broke season-
best and Davidson record times. Eli Trefzger
’07 placed second in the 1650 freestyle and
lowered her own Davidson record to 17:32.94.
Megan Hollar ’06 won yet another race in the
100-yard breaststroke.

Seniors Vanessa Witt and Sara Laws have
been essential components to the Davidson
swim team throughout their four years at
Davidson. Laws began her last home meet
with a season-best time in the 100 back. Trisha

| HAD THI
SAME QUESTIONS.

et my MBA without

ec¢
sU

Blackwell ’05 also swam 4 season-best in this
event. Witttook away a victory in the 400 in-
dividual medley. The women left on Friday
slightly trailing UNC Wilmington.

The men showed some impressive results
as well. Robert Koch ’03 placed in the top-
five of the 1650 race with a season-best time.
Charlie Hunter ’03 also swam a season-best
in the 100 backstroke with a time of 53.44.
Brad Poole ’06, who has been an outstanding
leader, finished top five in the 200 free.

Saturday morning began with the recogni-
tion of each of the senior swimmers. Family,
friends, teammates, coaches, and president
Bobby Vaught applauded the efforts and
achievements that each swimmer contributed
to both the team and to Davidson College at
large. The women began with a victory in the
200-yard medley relay. Seniors were deter-
mined to end their last meet on home turf with
a victory. Laws took a win in the backstroke,
followed by Carrie Rafer ’04 in third and
Leslie Cook ’03 in sixth. Trefzger splashed
her way to yet another school-record in the
500 free with a time of 5:06.13, beating the
old record by a tenth of a second.

The men’s team was not as successful, but
two underclassmen swam to season-best
times. Mill Graves 07 accomplished this in
the 200 IM and Scott Foster ’07 swam a per-
sonal best in the 200 freestyle. Hunter’s suc-
cess from the previous day was repeated in
the 200 back where he ended his last race in
second place.

With the impressive victory, the women
demonstrated that they should be a force to
contend with at the CAA Championship from
Feb 18-21. ;

Seniors Joanie Gidas, Ashley Cain, Erin
Rosintoski, Leslie Cook, Sara Laws, Becky
Lyons, Vanessa Witt, Carrie Rafer, Kelsey
Holmberg, Robert Koch, Mike Mazza, Charlie
Hunter, and Beau Dasher all competed in their
last meet at Davidson,
