THE DAVIDSONIAN -

Davidson students party hard on The Court.

Weekend Warriors and
Midterm Survivors

By Katie HuNTER
Staff Writer

“What are you doing tonight?” During the
week, most Davidson students could answer
that question with a standard response, usually
in reference to multiple sports, extracurricular
activities, or piles of homework on their desks.
When the weekend rolls around, however,
don’t expect their attitudes to change. Like
everything else, Davidson students take their
fun, and weekend time, very seriously.

“During the week, I work hard, so on the
weekends I party hard,” declares Bianca Guinn
’08. Many people share her sentiments, choos-
ing to let loose by forgetting about that upcom-
ing test or term paper for a couple of nights.

What did people do for that last hurrah be-
fore fall break?

The answers vary as much as the personali-
ties on campus, ranging from a quiet night
watching movies in Chambers to a German
“Oktoberfest” in one senior apartment. Stewart
Knight’08 was lucky enough to score tickets
to the Allman Brothers and Lynrd Skynrd
Concert on Saturday night. “Friday was my
birthday,” says Knight, “so my sister and
friends came down from Charlottesville to
attend the show with me.”

Plenty of arrests were made this weekend as
well, but all in the spirit of good, clean fun. The
women of Rusk invited all members and fresh-
men ladies to “cuff‘em and ruff ‘em” for their
annual semi-formal, the first one held by an
eating house so far this year. Ladies were asked
to escort the date of their choice, or tojust show
up for a good time at the Policeman’s Brawl.

Though caution tape decorated the columns
outside of Rusk, a few freshmen women said
the only thing they worried about was “mak-
ing sure noone spilled anything on our dresses.”

Felt like you needed a “holiday” from study-

ing for midterms this weekend? Judging from -

the masses of black-lace-and-pearl clad girls
who descended on Warner Hall this past Sat-
urday, many people did.

The eating house featured its annual
Madonnaroma Party that night, one of the most
crowded court functions of the year. The party

Got Art?¢

Want to write for
A&rL, contact
sarobinson or

anmartin.

went off without a hitch, except for the acci-
dental trigger of the fire alarm early on in the
evening. “The fog machine set off the alarm,”
laughs Elizabeth Berndt ’07, “so we all had to
evacuate the building.” Fortunately, this little
mishap didn’ tstop the party for long. The crowd
continued to get down to Material Girl beats
and swirling disco lights until 2 a.m.

Some people would rather leave the danc-
ing to the professionals. This past Saturday,
Step Afrika! took the stage in the Duke Family
Performance Center for a performance featur-
ing tap, modern, freestyle, step, and native
South African dances.

The fun can't
last forever,
though, which
many students
realize with the
dawn of Sunday
morning.’

Jeanelle Perry ’05, who attended a Step
Afrika! performance at UNC Charlotte months
ago, was thrilled when she found out the Wash-
ington, D.C. based troupe was coming to
Davidson. “The variety of dance pieces was
impressive,” stated Perry, “especially because
it was a very different show than the one I saw
at UNCC.” ;

“T even got to go up on stage and step my-
self,” Perry says excitedly. “It was a great way
to get my mind off of school and work.”

The fun can’t last forever, though, which
many students realize with the dawn of Sun-
day morning. Some students use Sundays for
reflection, attending church services as a way
to refresh their minds for the upcoming week.
With the prospect of midterms looming, this
idea seemed to resonate with many students.
Perry, who attended University Park Baptist
Church’s morning and communion services on
Sunday, claimed that this time also helped her
“deal with stress” and concentrate on spiritu-
ality.

The workload might seem overbearing on °

Sunday evenings, but most students possess
few regrets about their weekend experiences.
The sign on one freshman dorm’ s door in Third
Belk seems to sum it up with this motto.

“Working hard might pay off later, but pro-
crastination always pays off right now.”

With Fall Break around the corner, one hope:
that students will find the time to make i
through the madness to enjoy a well-deserved
break.

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 7

Are relationships worth the trouble?

By EmiLy WILSon, STEVEN GENTILE, KATE
WILLIAMS, KIRSTEN TALLEY, AND Kim NEwTON
Student Health Advisors

The quandary of the collegiate “hook-up” is
as nebulous as it is ubiquitous. More frequent
on weekends and after alcohol consumption,
less applicable to real relationships; ask any
two people, and you will likely find differences
in both their objective definition, and their sub-
jective perception and personal history of
“hooking up.”

When asked about “hooking up,” one stu-
dent emphasized that the practice is emotion-
ally economical. “I don’t have to know a per-
son, to have a good time with them, and I’m
not expected to keep in touch forever, after-
wards.”
mous college “hook-up” as a “good way a way
to get ass without attachment, but only because
the relationship isn’t worth being attached to.”

Many see these short-term physical attach-
ments as a happy medium between involved
relationships and sexual frustration. The
anomaly can consist of anything from talking,
to touching, to intercourse. Hook ups usually
occur during the wee hours of the morning, and
end when one person embarks on the ominous
“walk of shame” (or march of conquest; again,
we have an ambiguous term open to interpre-
tation) back to his or her room. While serious
emotional attachment is not usually at the heart
of the matter; couples can form after a pattern.

Now, to add another ambiguous piece of
lingo to this article: what is “game?” It’s slang
definition is often closely correlated to one’s
ability and desire to hook up. Because students
onasmall college campus lack anonymity, the
“dated” concept of the one-night-stand is no
longer viable.

In one conversation with a peer, it became
evident that we still play “the game,” but that
therules have changed. “You are still judged,”
said the student, “‘it is just that now, you don’t
know how you are being judged.”

. Perhaps the ambivalence of the hook up
protects its participants; perhaps it sensation-
alizes the same old story. In 1998 musical group

Another referred to the nearly anony-*

Public Enemy rewrote Buffalo Springfield’s
1966 song “‘For What it’s Worth.” The new
version was entitled “He Got Game” and ad-
dressed how we assess what it is we do.

“It might feel good

It might sound a little somethin’

But d@#* the game if it don’t mean nothin

What is game who got game

Where’s the game in life behind the game
behind the game

I got game

She’s got game

We got game

They got game

He got game

It might feel good

Or sound a little somethin’

But f#%* the game ifitain’t saying nothin’”

Ou Geka at es, mM. tw
900 Room, Pr jJohw Rush
is presenting the lecture,
which focuses on student
depression. the lecture
was started by the Class
of ‘90, tw order to
commerate a fellow class-

mate who committed
sutcide. Dr. Rush is a
member of the psychiatry
department at the Univer-
a of Texas Southwest-

Kirsten Talley ’05Kim Newton ’05, Steven Gentile ’06, Emily Wilson
705, and Kate Williams ’06 are this year’s health advisors.

Monday and Tues4o)f
Second Meal at 1 Le
(Equal 9"

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com

; Hib
Pr af

10Z Off with Sehool IP
Monday-Friday Z2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

achi Grill Spe
with Schoo) 2!
e)

“t

erlege Night!

with school |?

