6

Latest computer animated film fails to be ‘Incredible’ in plot

Frozone fails to make an impact of the story line.

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Regardless of the massive success of the
computer animated movement, noone can deny
that this thriving and irresistible genre follows
a strict formula. Take one non-human cluster
of objects or animals, whether it is toys, bugs,
monsters, fish, or fairy tale creatures, and make
it completely human. This simple equation
opens up worlds of possibility for remarkable
cleverness. Honestly, what do audiences love
more than imagining that all real and mytho-
logical worlds operate as distinct human cul-
tures?

This month, “The Incredibles” extends this
formula to the land of superheroes. Telling the
story of a family of exceptionally gifted crime
fighters who must struggle to make do in the
real world, this widely appealing flick has an
almost indestructible premise on its hands.

However, director Brad Bird veers far
enough away from the computer animated
_ recipe to consequently weaken “The
Incredibles” into an unsure and middling piece
of entertainment. Attempting to create a world
that is more sincere than sarcastic, this over-
earnest comedy provides the first indication that
the honeymoon is ending for computer anima-
tion.

Technically competent, occasionally amus-
ing, and nobly directed, “The Incredibles” is
mysteriously missing the rich and hysterical
satire that made the “Shrek” franchise and
“Finding Nemo” so sublime. While those
movies jammed every frame with hilarious
reminders of humankind’ s ridiculousness, Bird
contents himself here to tell a disappointingly
tired and straightforward narrative about what
it means to be special.

“The Incredibles” begins in a time in which
superheroes regularly bail out incompetent
policemen in order to save the day from evil.
However, in a deft jab at the. American legal
system, crime victims notice loopholes in su-
perhero practice and thus raise lawsuits against
their saviors for not saving the world as well as
they could have.

Public disillusionment and financial ruin
drive the superheroes underground, and one
man, Mr. Incredible (Craig T. Nelson), secures
ahumdrum job in insurance claims. He andhis
superwife, Elastigirl (Holly Hunter), assume
the names of Bob and Helen Parr in an attempt
to start anew. However, a forgotten enemy from
Mr. Incredible’s past surfaces on a tropical
island, and the happy couple must don their
form-fitting supersuits once again. Also along
for the ride are Dash and Violet, the Incredibles’
“special” children who have the respective
powers of amazing speed and dematerializa-
tion,

Bird also introduces Frozone (Samuel L.
Jackson), Mr. Incredible’ s best friend who has
the ability of turning water into ice. Sadly, this
lively character does not fit into the plot sum-
mary because he inexplicably disappears after
twenty minutes, only to-return when he is no
longer important.

An opening night crowd filled with children
confirmed “The Incredibles” biggest problem;
in spite of its tremendous comedic potential, it
actually isn’t that funny. Only a couple of re-
spectable laughs emerged from the packed
house, and for an animated film that runs
unforgivably close to two hours, this is adeath
sentence. Bird wants so desperately to create
an innocent and pure story that he almost com-
pletely whiffs on attaining satirical bite. Also,
the uninspired voice cast desperately misses

the frantic presence of an Eddie Murphy or an
Ellen DeGeneres to lighten things up a notch
or two.

Visually, “The Incredibles” lacks the rich
and textured landscapes of its predecessors.
Watching “Nemo” and “Shrek” felt much like
reading a “‘Where’s Waldo” book; each frame
contained so much imaginative and humorous
detail that you could never pick up every joke
on a single viewing. In “The Incredibles,” on

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
NoveEMBER 10, 2004

the other hand, what you see is what you get.
Bird gives, us no Far, Far Away Lands or ma-
rine life communities to distract us whenever
the plot lags.

None of this is to say that “The Incredibles”
is a bad movie. In fact, it is far from it. Still, the
amazing crop of computer animated films from
the past decade has set such an unsurpassable
standard that a simply “good” attempt does not
feel like enough. Just as the Incredible family
struggles to fit in the world of ordinary people,
so does this incredible genre struggle to fit in
the world of ordinary movies.

A normal family sitting at the
dinner table.

The ensemble presents a variety of dance styles.

Davidson Dance Ensemble
presents fall concert

By MIcHAEL CAVELL
Staff Writer

This weekend, the Dance Ensemble will treat
Davidson students to not just one, but two fall
semester performances. The two shows, be-
ing held in Duke Family Performance Hall, will
be begin at 8:00 p.m. on both Friday and Sat-
urday. Tickets are $3 and can be purchased in
advance from the box office in the Alvarez
Student Union.

Friday and Saturday’ s recitals should be well
worth the small ticket price. Each show will
consist of 25 pieces in contrasting styles, in-
cluding but not limited to jazz, lyrical, ballet,
modern, Latin, tap, step, and hip hop. With the
wide variety of styles featured in this semester’s
performances, everyone should atleast be able
to find something they like. Said Dance En-
semble President, Catharine Foster ’05, “If you
don’t like what you’re watching, wait two
minutes because the pieces are so diverse ev-
erything will change in an instant.”

One exciting aspect of this semester’s per-

formance will be the use of professional cho-

reography i in addition to pieces by student
choreographers. Marissa Nesbit of North Caro-
lina Dance Theater and Jann Soud, a ballet
teacher for the Dance Ensemble will both have
their work featured this weekend.

Davidsonians who participated in classes
offered by the Dance Ensemble in ballet, mod-
ern, belly dancing, and tap will all have a piece
in this fall’s concert. In addition, the Dance
Team has a piece in the show and there will
also be a piece done in collaboration with the
theater department. Said Foster, “I think they’ Il
really add to the show.”

If this sounds like a lot, that’s because. it is.
All counted, there are 125 dancing in the show
and another 15 orso working behind the scenes.
That is pretty impressive participation for an
organization run completely by students.

If all goes as planned, the two Dance En-
semble shows are sure to provide good times
to all who attend. With a stunning degree of
student participation and dedication, the Dance -
Ensemble will not disappoint.

Dance Ensemble has approxi-
mately 140 members.
