By Pierce TRUMBO

Staff Writer

After losing eleven of their first thirteen games, volleyball
appears to be getting it together just in time for, conference
play. With this week’s wins, the ’Cats have won three in a row
and four of the last five, improving their record to ‘6-13 over-
all and 3-1 in the Southern Conference.

The successful week started last Tuesday as the Wildcats
disposed of Gardner-Webb in three straight games. Liz
Williamson ’07 led the ’Cats with 17 kills in the women’s
victory, but the rest of the week’s wins would not be nearly as
easy.

On Thursday, East Tennessee State traveled to Davidson to
face the ’Cats at Belk Arena. After losing the first two games
of the match on their home floor, the women could have eas-
ily become discouraged. However, they fought back and won
aclose third game 30-28. Said Williamson of the team’s early
play in the match, “[It] took a while to wake up.” Building
from the win of game three, the women won the final two
games, securing the match 3-2 (28-30, 27-30, 30-28, 30-22,
15-9).

Williamson played a major role in the victory, with a ca-
reer-high 25 kills. She was helped by Katie Pierucci ’08 who
had 18 kills. Anchoring the defense was Tamara Gallen ’05,
who registered 27:digs. She was followed by Jenna Dykstra
’07 and Lindsey Woeste ’08, who had 20 and 21 respectively.

On Saturday, the ’Cats traveled to Tennessee to play Chat-
tanooga. The first three games of the match were all decided
by narrow margins (27-30, 31-29, 21-30), with Chattanooga

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
OcTosBER 6, 2004

AVIPOON

LAVIDS) TLLEVBALI

OAV VOLLEVDs' 5
VOLLE if B { f

is

"AVIDSON
NVLEYBALL

The young volleyball team has depended largely on their group of freshman this year.

winning two out of the three. But again, down two games to
one going into the fourth game, something clicked for the
women and they beat Chattanooga 30-13 in the fourth game
and then 15-12 in the fifth and deciding game. Williamson
described the 30-13 game as a time when the team “came to-
gether, [in] one of [our] best games.”

Pierucci led the team with a match-high 33 kills and
Williamson added 24. Overall, the ’Cats had a .212 attack
percentage. On the defensive side, Erin Balak ’06 had 29 digs,
Gallen had 28, and Woeste had 20.

Gallen said the wins this week were that much sweeter since

Davidson students camp out in “McKillopville” to be first in line for tickets to the
basketball game against Duke. To read about this year’s campers, go to page 12.

the Wildcats were 1-3 against conference rivals ETSU and
Chattanooga a year ago. Said Gallen of the team’s recent suc-
cess, “Definitely we’re building our confidence...we’ re tired
of losing.” She continued, “I think that we’re learning each
other tendencies and forming confidence in one another.”
Williamson supported this idea saying, “I think everybody’s
starting to know their roles.”

The women are off until next weekend when they travel to
Greenville, S.C. to face Furman University on Saturday Oct.
9th. They then head to Spartanburg, S.C. on Sunday Oct. 10th
to challenge Wofford.

Men’s Soccer
collapses in 2nd
half against USC

By BriAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

Visiting South Carolina scored four second half goals to
lead the 15th ranked Gamecocks to a 4-1 win over the Wild-
cats at Richardson Stadium last Wednesday. The four Game-
cock goals were the most surrendered by Davidson since the
2002 season. Spanning the last four games, the Wildcat’s op-
ponents have tallied a total 13 goals, the highest such total in
five years.

For the third straight game, Davidson started the match well
and took the lead in the first half of play. Utilizing a high-
pressure defensive scheme and a possession oriented offen-
sive style, the Wildcats were able to contain a dangerous South
Carolina attack and control the flow of play.

Just over twenty minutes into the first half, a Gamecock
foul warranted a Davidson free kick from 25 yards. Freshman

‘ Robby Hoak ’07 then sent the ball over the leaping wall and

into the side netting for the early 1-0 lead. Hoak’s goal was
the first of his young Wildcat career. “It was great for Robby
to get his first goal,” head coach Matt Spear said. “I anticipate
many more from him.”

Stellar defense, led by junior Will Carroll ’06 who was fill-
ing in for injured John Latting ’06, preserved the lead for the
remaining minutes of the half and the’’Cats entered the break
with the lead.

“I thought we had them pinned it,” Spear said. “I thought
we had the better of the play and more scoring chances [in the

see Men’s Soccer, page 15

Liz Williamson ‘07
Volleyball
Hometown: Austin, Texas
Major: Undeclared
A big reason for the volleyball team’s turnaround last week
had to do with Liz Williamson’s exceptional play and clutch
putaways at the ends of matches. In the win against ETSU,
Williamson posted a career-best 25 kills and hit .365. She fol-
lowed up with 24 kills in the win against Chattanooga.

Last Wednesday, the Men’s and Women’s soccer games were
supposed to be the first ever at the new Alumni Stadium. Due to
“various construction issues” the opening was pushed back on
gameday, moving both games to Richardson Stadium. Finally, on
Friday evening the women’s soccer team played the first ever game
on the new field. Although they lost to a solid Socon team,
Chattanooga, the girls were glad to break in the new turf after a
fall of uncertain circumstances surrounding the construction.
