THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Bulldogs talli ad fist goal of the
game within the first few minutes of the
opening quarter, but the Cats came back and
scored a series of quick goals, making the
score 4-2 at the end of the first half. Davidson
increased its Jead 2 as high as three goals dur-
ing the second half, but The Citadel remained
in the game and rallied to come back and tie
the score at 6-6 with a little less than two
minutes remaining in the fourth quarter.

With time running out, att:
Comet 04 drove to the net Past numerous

and sli

teagic in pera Florida, North Caro-
lina, and South-Carolina. Davidson’s next
‘game is the home opener against Wake For-
est this Thursday, February 12. The opening
Pr ca al onal

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

y, ;
Many coaches tell their athletes from day
one that alcohol has no place in sports.

This is a lie.

There is at least one sport where alcohol is
not only allowed but also an integral part of
the event, and that sport is The Beer Mile.

While it has yet to gain national media rec-
ognition, the Beer Mile is a bona-fide com-
petitive sporting event. It has rules and com-
petitors and documented races all over the
nation, with a best-known world record of
5:40.0.

What is the Beer Mile, you ask?

Well, it’s quite simply that giddy combina-
tion you’ ve always been looking for: some fine
brewskies and a hardcore competition—at the
same time!

The procedure is quite simple; you drink a
120z beer and run a lap around the track. Beer.
Lap. Beer. Lap. Beer. Lap. Get it? (That’s four
beers and four laps in case you lost count.)

There are a few rules, too.

Beer can only be consumed—more or less
quickly depending on your personal ability—
in the 10-meter transition location at the start
of each lap. More importantly, however, is that
your beer can’t be the watery goodness also
known as Milwaukee’s Best Light. In fact, it
must be a beer with an alcohol content of at
least 5%, meaning a step up to the mighty
Beast Ice would be a necessary evil.

Also, for you experienced drinkers, no arti-
ficial holes can be made in the can (no shot-
gunning), and only cans with the standard
drinking mouth can be used. That means none
of those convenient wide-mouths are allowed.

Can’t take the slish-slosh of four beers in
your stomach? Well, go ahead and puke, but
beware the additional penalty lap at the end

SPORTS
The Beer Mile: combining suds and sports

of the fourth lap. It’s a doozey.

Senior track star Ben Gaspar is no foreigner
to the idea of the Beer Mile. While never com-
peting in one himself, he knew a friend who
finished right around six and a half minutes.

Still, Gaspar admits, “it sounds pretty un-
believable to me.”

On the other hand, senior Nick Asma, beer
connoisseur and casual runner alike, has no
fear for the challenge.

“T honestly don’t think it would be too
tough,” said Asma, who was just hearing about
the Beer Mile for the first time.

Discussing strategy, Asma guessed that the
“cheap and watered-down” beer would be the
best bet, and that while drunkenness shouldn’t
be a problem, the sheer volume of the fluids
definitely would be. He suggests running
slightly dehydrated and on a semi-empty stom-
ach to offset these problems.

While the Beer Mile sounds really nice,
senior Chris Schmader, yet another trackster,
has goals far beyond that of just the single
mile.

“It’s always been my dream to run in a Beer
Mile,” said the long distance specialist. “I hope
to begin training for the event as soon as the
Outdoor Conference meet is over this year.
After that, I'll make the move up to the ‘Beer
10k.’”

Schmader was only half-joking about the
variation of the Beer Mile, though, as real-
life upgrades truly exist.

Not a big beer fan? Try the Vodka Two-Mile
(that’s eight shots and eight laps). Or the Four-
Lap Beer Steeplechase (four beers; four quar-
ters, 16 barriers, four water pits). Or, if you
just need that team sport credit, go for the 4x40
Beer Relay (four team members, one 400z
beer, and one lap apiece).

Of course, slight adaptations can be made
for non-drinkers as well. The Soda Mile is an

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 11, 2004

13

obvious one, but how about the Ben and
Jerry’s 4x4 (four pints of Ben and Jerry’s ice
cream of at least 300 calories, four miles)?

And then there’s the Renaissance Mile, ru-
mored to have a record of 29 minutes, which
consists of running a mile, solving a Rubik’s
Cube, drinking 400z of malt liquor, dunking
a basketball on a 10-foot rim, and eating a pint
of ice cream, in any order.

In conclusion, the Beer Mile is a sport, and
it just might be the right one for you. Give it a
thought, and maybe one day you will join the
sub-seven minute club!

For more information on the Beer Mile,
consult www.beermile.com, which was the
source of all the information for this article
and has endless more tidbits that might just
tickle your pickle.

from Men’s, page 14

conference schedule. The Southern Confer-
ence is as tight this year as it has ever been,
and every opponent will be a challenge.

“The conference is so even that [the big-
gest factor in every match] could be the home
court advantage,” observed head coach Jeff
Frank. “Every match will be a battle.”

But before they start thinking about the
SoCon, the Wildcats must focus on their trip
to Columbia on Sunday, February 15 to face
off against SEC powerhouse and the 23rd-
ranked team in the nation, South Carolina. The
*Cats will be looking to improve upon last
year’s result, in which Stonestreet won at the
number three singles position and several
other Davidson players nearly pulled off up-
sets.

“We typically play pretty well there,” said
Frank. “I think we’ll have a much stronger
performance than we did [earlier this season]
at UNC.” -

Since 1990, 31 Davidson College graduates

have applied their leadership skills to the growing

movement to end educational inequity in our country.

Will you join them?

APPLICATION DEADLINE

FEBRUARY lo

apply online at teachforamerica.org

TEACHFORAMERICA
www.teachforamerica.org

