4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WeEpNESDAY, OCTOBER 20, 2004

MRSA, from page 1

coccus (or Staph) bacteriacommonly colonizes

in the nose or on the skin of approximately 30.

percent of the healthy population, Marsicano
said.

MRSA, though, is a type of Staph bacteria
that resists the normal treatment of antibiotics
like penicillin.

Carriers of both Staph and MRSA bacteria
are not susceptible to infection, White said.
However MRSA is easily spread to those
people in close physical contact and with cuts
or wounds. Members of sports teams and their
“close associates” are more likely to get in-
fected and spread the bacteria than the general
student population.

White provided other reasons for the staff’s
response, which he called “timely and appro-
priate.”

The close proximity of students living on
campus and indorms makes most college stu-
dents more susceptible than the general popu-
lation. White reported a recent outbreak at NC
State among its general student population.

Also, the body’s natural resistance to harm-
ful bacterial decreases when immune systems
are weakened by lack of nutrition or sleep.

“Tam confident that we’ ve got it under con-
trol,” said Marsicano, after a thorough treat-
ment of Baker Sports Complex and the Union
fitness center.

The football locker room, carpets, and equip-
ment were steam-cleaned from top to bottom
and will continue to be cleaned on a regular
basis. Football players are now issued dispos-
able towels and must shower after practice.

Cleaning procedures have also been stepped
up in all athletic and fitness facilities. Spray
bottles of a stronger, more effective disinfec-
tant than used in past years have been placed
next to all equipment.

Assistant Union Director Tim Stroud said
the 24-hour Fitness Center may consider
switching to disposable towels. He has also
encouraged student employees to wipe down
equipment before and after each use.

“We have the right cleaning solutions. We
can prevent spread if everyone’s proactive.”

Stroud also said students identified with
MRSA are prohibited from the Fitness center
until they have been properly treated.

The problem is that “people don’t recognize
it and treat [MRSA],” said Dean Marsicano.

Early symptoms include small pimple-like
bumps that redden and fill with pus. These
bumbs can spread into larger and deeper skin
infections, creating abscesses and boils.

Report any suspicious skin sore or boil to
Student Health immediately (x2300).

Students who are found to have the infec-
tion sign a waiver that allows the Health Cen-
ter to notify the Residence Life Office so that
rooms, showers, and toilets could be disinfected
in dorms or apartments. ,

Plunge, from page 1

sential to blend in more readily within the

‘homeless community. Following the advice of

the “Urban Plunge Manual,” group members
did not shower between two and five days
before the trip and the men in the group did not
shave.

“We wore the same clothes we would wear
on the trip starting two days in advance, so that
they might begin to look a little worn and ac-
quire a smell,” Gerstenmier said. “The morn-
ing of the trip, we soiled our clothes and skin
alittle, not to get extremely dirty, for that would
have been into simply a homelessness stereo-
type, but to roughen up our college student’s
skin, nails and hair.”

For two day.and two nights, the nine
Davidson students slept in the streets, pan-
handled for money and received meals from
soup kitchens or local religious organizations.
At night, a local homeless person served as a
“guide,” helping the students find a safe place
to sleep.

The personal impact of the plunge varied
among the individual participants, however
certain sentiments resonated throughout the
group.

“There is acertain rawness in feeling incom-
plete, out of your element, and knowing that
you do not immediately have the comfort of
friends who know you,” Will Perreault ’06 said.

Perreault said that the most disconcerting
aspects of the experience were the feelings of
loneliness and rejection that he experienced
during his aimless wandering and panhandling
for money.

“To be perfectly honest, it was flat out dis-
gusting to witness how many people did not
even acknowledge the homeless population by
turning their heads quickly to avoid eye con-
tact or crossing the street,” he said. “Even if

~

people do not choose to give money to some-
one who is panhandling, they can at least have
the decency to say ‘hello,’ or ‘Iam sorry, Sir, I
can’t give you money, but can I help you find
out about the shelter in the community?”

For Amanda Brown ’08, the experience
helped foster a greater appreciation of the fun-
damental necessities and opportunities that
many people tend take for granted.

“It was very humbling to be so dependent on
strangers for the basic necessities of life,” she
said. “I really enjoy being independent, so it
was hard for me to feel comfortable asking
favors of strangers.”

Despite its brevity, the plunge illuminated
the detrimental effects of homelessness on a
person’s emotional well-being, said Brown.

“Tt was very difficult for me to be ignored or
disrespected by people I didn’t know just be-
cause I looked homeless,” she said. “It was
very lonely to panhandle since most people
ignored me.”

Brown’s interaction with her homeless guide
David helped her realize the full emotional
impact that homelessness can have on a per-
son.

“David said that when he first became home-
less, he didn’t know anyone and was very de-
pressed and miserable,” she said.

“For the most part, there was plenty of food
for the homeless, but services for the emotional
well-being of the homeless seemed to be ex-
tremely lacking.”

Interaction with real homeless people var-
ied from student to student. Aside from inter-
action with the night-time guides, Gerstenmier
did not have much interaction with homeless
persons. -

“The NCH asked us to pretend even to the
homeless population in the city that we were
homeless, and not blow ourcovertoeveryone,”

SEES
Celebrate Parents Weekend With Us!

131 MAIN

17830 Statesville Road ¢ Cornelius, North Carolina

704-896-0151

Located at exit 28 on the comer of Baley Rd. and Statesville Rd

1/2 mile north of Home Depot °

he said. “So, to not blatantly reveal my cover,
I tended to avoid long conversations with the
city’s homeless, something I now regret not
having taken advantage of.”

Although many members of the group ex-
perienced feelings of loneliness and social re-
jection, they also emphasized the many ways
in which community memberg demonstrated
kindness and cgmpassion. |

“Despite the brief moments that were hard
for our eyes to see, there were moments of hope
amid of chilly nights and aimless days,”
Perreault said. “Those who chose to help us,
or even smiled and let us know that we were
fellow humans gave us hope that humanity
would prevail.”

During the day, Brown observed a positive
community atmosphere in Dupont Circle,
where chessboards were set up in one corner
of a nearby park.

“Homeless and non-homeless people would
interact as equals and play chess,” she said. “No
one was judging and it just seemed like a very
nice social scene, especially for people who
didn’t have anyone else.”

Perreault said that although his personal
experience with panhandling was largely un-
successful, D.C. organizations seemed to ef-
fectively assuage the hunger needs of the home-
less population.

“T was surprised by the services that existed
outside of individual programs,” Perreault
said. “For example, churches in the area were
avery reliable source of food by bringing pre-
pared meals to the local parks during meal
hours. It was apparent dyring our time in DC
that hunger was usually met within a few
hours.”

The NCH requires that plunge participants
sleep on the streets, rather than in homeless
shelters, so they are not taking a bed from some-
one truly without a home.

“There was a greater sense of urgency when
it came to shelter,” Perreault said. “Although
there are many shelters in the area, they often
do not have enough beds to meet the needs of
the entire city.”

Firsthand exposure to life on the city streets
enabled Gerstenmier learned about the great
distances homeless people must travel to ob-
tain the services they need.

“There are very few places in the city that
provide all the services a homeless person
would require,” he said. “Therefore, they are
forced to walk miles and miles all around the
city to get food, shelter, clothing, health ser-
vices and other essentials.”

While the experience provided a valuable
glimpse into the daily struggles facing home-
less people, Perreault said that it is impossible
to know whatit is like to be on the streets living
day to day.

“Yet I think it is safe to say that through our
momentary condition of homelessness, as well
as the 48 hours of deliberate focus on this so-
cial issue, we are able to at least better under-
stand the plight of the homeless,” he said.

This year, there were three other Alternative
Breaks as well.

The groups traveled to two sites in North. |
Carolina and one in Georgia to take part in
service projects.

Brian Creech ’05 and Hannah Legerton ’05
led a group of students to Pembroke, NC.

They assisted the Riverway project in
Robeson County, which after having lost over
10,000 jobs since NAFTA was instituted in
1994, is now the poorest county in North Caro-
lina.

Another Alternative Break trip, led by Jordie
Poncy ’06 and Sarah Caitlin Mattingly °06,
traveled to Asheville, NC, where they worked
with Mountain Housing Opportunities, an or-
ganization that sponsors home repair and con-
struction projects for people in need.

In Asheville, the group took down a ramp
from a family whose father had recently died
from cancer and reconstructed the ramp as well
as a porch and stairs for another family.

Will Scheffers ’06 and Kelly Williams ’06
led the fourth Alternative Break trip toAtlanta,
GA.

They worked with Project Open Hand, de-
livering prepared meals to AIDS victims and
people with other debilitating illnesses. :
