Staff Editorial

Elections overlooked
most needed reform

SGA elections at Davidson too often turn into popularity con-
tests between the candidates. Whoever has the most friends who
vote for them ends up winning.

This year we saw SGA take some steps to prevent the cam-
paigns from focusing on popularity. Not only did most candi-
dates campaign on real issues, such as getting cable in dorm
rooms and extending the Pass/Fail deadline, but SGA also took
the long overdue measure of sending an email to students that
contained brief statements from most candidates about why they
should be elected. Students were finally able to compare can-
didates side by side based on their own words rather than sim-
ply voting for whatever name they recognized.

SGA should be commended for taking this much-needed step
to focus the elections on issues rather than name recognition.
Candidates, too, should be praised for running their clean, issue
oriented campaigns, and we hope an expect they will try to fulfill
their campaign promises.

However, the SGA elections are still far from perfect. Can-
didates for the Student Conduct Council and the Honor Council
were prohibited from making statements about why they should
be elected in this email.

To any student brought before the Honor Council, those se-
lected to try and defend that student will quickly become the
most important elected officials at Davidson. So why is it we
are not allowed to know anything about the candidates for these
positions, who they are, what they stand for and why we should
vote for them over others?

Preventing these candidates from campaigning may be an
attempt to keep these very important positions from becoming
mere popularity contests, but disallowing any public statements
whatsoever could actually lead to more of a popularity contest.

If students have no way of differentiating candidates for the
Honor Council and Student Conduct Council other than their
names, it is inevitable that those who have the most name rec-
ognition and the best reputation will win. Should we really force
students to cast their ballots based solely on whether or not we
recognize a name or have heard good things about that person?

If we truly value total anonymity in the election, representa-
tives should be selected at random from the community to serve
terms. Of course, that is absurd, but so is the present system.

SGA should allow candidates for these positions the right to
make a brief statement explaining their qualifications. A better-
informed electorate is more likely to make better-informed

choices, so why try to keep the student body in the dark.
' Avoiding a popularity contest is the rightidea, but SGA should
reconsider whether or not their methods are making the prob-
lem better or worse.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ©

., Editor in Chief
SVE Crow. g
, “e~ Managing Editers™~.
' Brandon Cateolt & Amee Patel
_ Ruchi Turakhia’& Sarah-Grace Wesley
Perspectives Editor _
“. 9 Zach Willi
“ “Arts & Living
Cannon Hodge & Ch

Mike'Giglio'’ »
* *% Dorsett Clark :

E Peter Aliso nf

Bush-bashing must
remain ‘respectful’

Leslie Smith’s column of two weeks ago, in which she ac-
cuses President Bush of hatred, ignorance, and fear of homo-
sexuals because of his stance against homosexual marriage lacks
any rational argument. Worse, by simplifying this complex issue
of morality and public policy to atest of tolerance versus hatred
and ignorance, she implicates all who disagree with her with
stupidity and hate. What a way to
argue.

Recently posted signs attacking
President Bush'as an anti-homo-
sexual, stupid dictator are more un-
fortunate products of this method of
argument. That our President does not
wait for the signal of an impotent and
irrelevant international body to ini-
tiate action in our country’s interests means that he is a dictator.
That he has come down in support of traditional marriage means
he is a hater. That he is from Texas makes him a dumb monkey.
What sort of dialogue do these signs intend to further?

Political argument is vital, insightful, and sometimes quite
fun. Now, I am no paragon of political deference or non-parti-
sanship, nor do I seek to force others to act in this way. But I
have a suggestion, in light of the foregoing. When President
Clinton was under fire in 1999, I truly loathed him. Yet I was
proud to tell people that, if I were to meet him that day, I would
shake his hand. I could respect him, for that moment. My hope
is that some of Bush’s most fiery opponents can. come to ac-
knowledge this man, and this office, with a modicum of respect
and dignity. Perhaps such sentiments could incite reasonable
and non-inflammatory debate.

Roland F. Foss ’05

The facts on Teach
for America

- It may be true that Teach For America “sends recent college
graduates with little or no teaching experience to some of the
most challenging public school districts in the country,” but
there are certain facts about the organization that failed to make
itinto the recent Davidsonian article “Education prof critical of
Teach For America.” Here are the facts:

Teach For America applicants undergo a rigorous selection

process thoughtfully designed to find those candidates who have

proven their ability to take challenges head on.

It is no secret that the corps member experience is anything
but a walk in the park, and it is for that reason that Teach For
America selects only those candidates they are confident will
go above and beyond to see their students succeed.

The rigorous Summer Institute is also a major part of the -

Teach For America experience. Atthe Institute, corps members
learn about approaches used by successful teachers in low-in-

come areas and student teach to gain invaluable classroom ex--

perience. It is because of the summer institute that, in a 2003
survey, Kane, Parsons & Associates found that 74 percent of
principals regard Teach For America teachers as better than
other beginning teachers and 9 out of 10 principals report that
corps member training is at least as good as that of other begin-
ning teachers.

When students commit to Teach For America, they are com-
mitting to much more than simply teaching for two years in a
low-income public school. They are committing to dedicate
their lives to the Teach For America nfission that “one day all
children in this nation will have the opportunity to attain an
excellent education.”

Though 60 percent of corps members do remain in the field
of education, all members work as leaders in the movement to

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 18, 2004

end educational inequity, regardless of the field in which they
chose to work.

Teach For America is much more than a “pit stop,” it is a life-
altering experience and, therefore, a lifelong commitment to
our nation’s children, and everyone involved with Teach For
America takes that commitment very seriously. The Davidson
community should be proud of the Davidson students who have
applied to Teach For America and decided that they want to
seriously commit themselves to such a noble and successful
mission.

Elizabeth Devlin ’04

Black Out Day gets
varied response

Last Friday some Black students united to commemorate the
contributions Blacks have made to America. In honor of Black
History Month, organizers felt it important to remember the
significant impact Black Americans have had on the develop-
ment of this nation. Black-Out Day was a silent demonstration
that lasted from 7 a.m. until 5 p.m. Participating students wore
black shirts and labels that read “Please Respect My Silence.”
The goal of the demonstration was to symbolize what America
as well as what Davidson College would be like without the.
presence, thoughts, and contributions of Blacks. It was a com-
memoration of those who have come before us.

Responses to this day varied as well as participation. Some
students readily participated and some decided to show their
support by wearing black shirts. Others chose not to participate
at all. On this day those participating, honored our ancestors
who were silenced by fire hoses and dogs, silenced by mobs
and lynching, and silenced by Jim Crow laws and an unfair
justice system.

In general, students and faculty were respectful if not sup-
portive of the day. However some participating students were
greeted with unexpected hostility from several professors. In
two cases students were threatened with a loss of participation
points if they refused to talk in class. Other professors publicly
questioned the validity of the cause.

One way to determine the success of this day is to ask your-
self, did you notice? Even more importantly, did you care? Will
you remember this Friday the 13th? .

Vanessa Young ‘05

A -DOSA FILOSA, BY LAURA FILOSA

