THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2004 7

Thief can’t steal our rhythm: DE a crowd pleaser

By Kayce THOMPSON
Special Contributor

As an actor in the fall main stage production
here at Davidson, I have to admit that I was
quite envious of the enthusiasm with which the
140 dance ensemble students were met. Even
during my final bow, it was my mother who
did the catcalling. However, five minutes into
the show I sucked it up, left my envy behind,
and fell victim to the groove. From Court-like
moments to slow, sweeping lyrical dances, the
ensemble managed to fit in a bit of everything.
Although a relatively long two hours, I re-
mained riveted more often than not.

First and foremost, I say “hats off” to every-
one in the show. It takes talent and courage to
dance your heart out before the shouting and
remarking majority of the school. It is hard to
write about a presentation such as Dance En-
semble and not highlight particular moments,
but rest assured that even those dances going
unmentioned were certainly remarkable—it is
my poor memory to blame for not being able
to recall the entire presentation. One of the
evening’s opening acts was a whirling number
with couples in black and red dancing to spicy
Latin music, an audience favorite and a reap-
pearing portion of the show that just gets better
every year.

Following closely was a dance to a Bjork
favorite, “It’s Oh So Quiet,” emulating the
mirror dances we girls surely did to the song
hiding away in ourrooms in 9th grade. Women

in ties were next, prancing to the Pink Panther
theme (a sassy hit), then came Harry Connick,
Jr.’s “Wink and A Smile” accompanied by
bowler hats, winks, and... well, smiles.

The dance “ON FIRE!” was acrowd pleaser,
weaving Billboard chart-toppers with ladies
who surely could have been some of
Davidson’s most vivacious Patterson Court
dancers. This top-40 theme was prevalent
throughout the evening and evoked some of
the audience’s most pithy remarks and shout-
outs to those they loved best. Some of the more
successful dances synthesized a variety of
music, switching it up for the audience and
making sure it was loud.

The selection of the right music for a par-
ticular dance is, for me, what makes the per-
formance. Perhaps the only critique I have

concerns the poor choice of tunes for some of

the pieces. Although many good songs made
an appearance, I found that some just didn’t
suit the choreography. These were the spots
where I drifted a bit.

Some of the song choices that worked the
best on this evening of dance definitely had to
be the ultra-sexy “I’m A Woman” (although
Peggy Lee’s version is my all-time favorite,
but that’s not important), the Michael Jackson/
Salsa collaboration, the “No Angels in
America” selection of hip-hop goodies, and
Philip Glass’ accompaniment of the “pastiche”
dancers.

As aside note, perhaps it is here that I should
remark that, although one of my least favorite

An insider’s view on performing

By Patricia MASSEY
Special Contributor

It’s hard to believe that it is all over. I re-
member the first week of rehearsals like it was
yesterday. Friday and Saturday nights were the
culmination of the time, talent, energy, and soul
of many Davidson students.

After weeks of being in the Baker Dance
Studio, the Davidson Depot, Chambers Gal-
lery, or whatever space we found to practice,
last week we all finally came together on the
stage of “the Duke.”

Finally, we were able to dance in a space
that was big enough, we were able to add lights
to the design of our dances, we wore our cos-
tumes, and we were able to see the dances that
everyone else had been working on for so long.

Yet, the most beautiful part of the show
wasn’ tthe lights, the costumes, oreven the great
stage. The most beautiful part of the show was
that we were, at last, able to come together as
acommunity of dancers and artists, instead of

Chile ang Costa Rica

5

chstian Australi

classmates and peers.

Before every show, the members of the
Dance Ensemble have a special tradition of
sitting in a circle on the stage, holding hands,
and “passing the squeeze.” Each dancer looks
at this time in a different way. As I sat on the
stage Friday night, waiting for the squeeze to
get all the way around, I realized that in the
time that I was on the stage, I was able to re-
treat from the frustrations of my day—the work
that I still had to do, the exhaustion in my body,
and missing friends that I hadn’t seen all week.
Even if just for the moments that I was on the
stage with my fellow dancers, I was at peace
and genuinely happy.

It’s hard to believe that it is all over. But, it
is even harder to believe that before we know
it, rehearsals will start again and plans for the
spring show will begin to come together.

Thanks for your support, Davidson. We are
grateful to be able to share the gifts that dance
offers this community with you, semester af-
ter semester.

Logan: Costa Rica and Spain

The University Studies Abroad Consortium, with programs
in 24 countries, allows students to master languages and
study disciplines — including business, fine arts and
history — at distinguished, overseas schools. Soak up the
vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience of

e Summer, semester and yearlong programs e Wide range
of academic courses e Internships ¢ Language classes at
all levels @ Field trips and tours ¢ Small classes

e University credit ¢ Scholarships e Housing

UNIVERSITY
Se ated
CONSORTIUM

HTTP: //USAC.UNR. — 784.- —

Pet Shop Boy’s songs made its way into the
show, the very presence of Ryan Hastings ’05
in drag made it perfectly bearable.

As much as I don’t want to pick favorites, I
feel like I just have to recognize two dances
that really just blew me away. The first being,
as most would probably concur, “No Angels
in America” with choreography by Marc
Vinson ’05. I could only drop my jaw for the
first few minutes and afterwards just shouted
where appropriate for the duration. It was ap-
parent that so much skill and hard work went
into this particular dance. The music, the tal-
ent, the spirit, the costumes, and the all-around
uniqueness of the piece left me truly amazed at
the level of skill of the performers and the in-
credible presence of step dance at Davidson.
My compliments, dancers.

Secondly, I was dually impressed with “pas-
tiche: morning passages,” choreographed by
graduate Beth Gardner ’03 and the perform-
ers. I have been looking forward to the very
physical, movement-based theatrical produc-
tion of “pastiche” that opens this week, and
that little taste of the show only heightened my
excitement.

I felt like each dancer had a remarkable
awareness of her body, and the choreography
was just exquisite, accentuating perfectly the
talent of the performers. Quirky and unex-
pected, classic yet modern, the dance certainly
created a murmur of appreciation from the
audience. For a few moments, we were all si-
lent and transported to a world that had been
skillfully crafted for us. I must also briefly
mention another unexpected and provoking
performance of the evening: “The Fight Un-
seen,” choreographed by Athena Stevens ’06,
Ryan Creighan’07, and Patricia Massey ’07. I
truly appreciated this:very sincere and beauti-
ful performance.

living in a foreign land.

A masked dancer performed at the Dance Ensemble performance.

So, to say that my evening was worth the $3
tickét would be an understatement. In my years
here at pavidson. nee Ensemble has always
been an opportunity for students to come to-
gether for a precious couple of hours and ad-
mire the work of other students without the
pressure of creating high-art or appearing to
understand high-art.

However, the level of talent and the appre-
ciation for the skill of fellow students is height-
ened each time I walk into the Duke and see
that big ballerina shining on the main curtain.
Thank you performers and peers for a lovely
Friday evening.

Blend of the arts
in ‘pastiche’

By Amoura CARTER
Staff Writer

During the Dance Ensemble last weekend
numerous students and faculty members were
able to get a sneak peek at the highly antici-
pated performance of “‘pastiche.” The dance
piece is called “pastiche: morning passage”
and was choreographed by Beth Gardner °03
and the dancers, Jessikah Byington ’05, Katy
Gleditsch ’05, Amanda Kuker ’08, Patricia
Massey ’07, Erika Weiberg 08, and Lauren
Yero’07. If you were not able to see the Dance
Ensemble do not fret—they will perform dur-
ing the run of “pastiche,” starting this week.

Roberto ig eee a visiting | theatre

| Music, drama, movement, and sound help
create the mixtures of images and associa-
This is a truly unique play with,
como estimates, about 60 percent

1 script and 40 percent content devel-

in collaboration with the actors. He

his actors to move freely, take risks,

stsin eae
