_ THE DAvIDSONIAN

SPORTS

~ pL DY Riss SHiill

With her four goals, Hill °07 was sthe Cats’ otenes aainat Stanford.

Lacrosse avons two in a row,
now 0-6 in conference play

‘Cats looking to Saturday's
Spring Frolics game to pick
up elusive conference win

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

The lacrosse team traveled to Durham,
North Carolina to play no. 20 Stanford Uni-
versity last Sunday after losing at Virginia
Tech on Wednesday.

In Wednesday’s loss, the ’Cats were unable

photo by Russ Smith

Williams ’04 was one of six ’Cats
to score in the loss at Va Tech.

to hold back Hokie Lindsay Welch, who had
six goals for the day in Virginia Tech’s 18-6
victory in Blacksburg.

Stanford, traveling from California to play
the Blue Devils two days earlier in a 9-5 loss,
faced the ’Cats on Duke’s turf field. The Car-

' dinal was not weary from the loss, however,

and. quickly capitalized by scoring a goal
within the first 38 seconds of play.

The Cardinal then went on a scoring run,
tallying nine unanswered goals in the first half,
including an Abbi Hill hat-trick in the first 16
minutes of the game. Ruthie Hill ’07 scored
Davidson’s first goal of the half with less than
a minute remaining in the period, and at half-
time it was 9-1 in Stanford’s favor.

Davidson’s Hill began the second half
quickly by scoring two back-to-back goals i in
under three minutes. The first goal was unas-
sisted, while Lindsay Frank ’05 gave a crisp
pass to Hill for her third goal of the day.

Stanford fought back quickly by scoring
five goals, including three in less than a
minute. Sarah Carter ’07 then broke the Car-
dinal run, scoring her fifth goal of the season
on a feed from classmate Alex Eagan ’07. Hill
also scored again before the end of the sec-
ond half between two Stanford goals, leading
to the final 16-5 score.

For the game, Hill had her second hat-trick
performance of the season. Unfortunately,
while only two Davidson players tallied goals,
eleven different Cardinal player had scores for
the day. Wildcat goalie Leslie Smith ’06 had
thirteen saves against Stanford, including nine
in the second half.

With the loss, Davidson moves to 3-12 for
the season. The next match-up is against Wil-
liam and Mary at home on Saturday, Apr. 24
at 12 p.m.

from Baseball, page 16

’05 led off the inning with a blast over the
left-centerfield wall.

An error kept the Cougars alive in the fifth
and they capitalized on uncharacteristically
wild Davidson pitching, as four Charleston
batters were hit by pitches, helping them grab
a 5-3 lead.

Charleston added two more in the top of
the ninth, and Davidson put the tying run at
the plate in the bottom half but was unable to
convert.

Shoop proved an offensive juggernaut, go-
ing 3-for-4 with a home run, two runs, and
two RBIs. Brian Akin ’04 (6-1) suffered his
first loss of the season despite not allowing
an earned run in 5.2 innings, as his ERA
dropped from 2.14 to 1.95, good enough for
third-best among SoCon pitchers who have
thrown 25 innings or more.

The Saturday before Easter, Davidson
outscored Appalachian State 15-5 in a double-
header, taking the first game 8-4 and the sec-
ond 7-1. Co-Captains Matt Dellinger ’04 and

. Akin put together two sterling performances,

including a complete game from Akin, as
Davidson cruised to victory in both games.

In game one, Davidson held a 5-4 lead head-
ing into the ninth, but with one out got back-
to-back doubles from Navarro and Crissey,
who both scored in the inning, to provide some
insurance.

Shoop then launched a two-run homer well
over the right-field fence for the icing on the
cake. Dellinger went 7.2 innings, allowing
four runs on 10 hits and a walk while striking
out three in his best start of the season.

It was all Akin in game two, as the hard-
throwing righty yielded just seven hits and
struck out four en route to tossing the first
complete game of his collegiate career.

Davidson opened the series by dropping an
8-3 decision, as the ’Cats stranded 10 runners.
Navarro launched his first homer of the sea-
son in the losing effort, and Shoop went 2-
for-4 with an RBI and a run scored.

Davidson travels to Duke tonight and will
then head down to Charleston for a three-game
series against The Citadel this weekend.

- The next home game for the ’Cats is next
Tuesday at 6 p.m. against Gardner-Webb.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2004

15

Trio of talented recruits to

By WALKER SAIK
Senior Staff Writer

Stuff you associate with spring: Spring Frol-
ics, baseball, finals, beautiful Friday after-
noons on your porch, lottery night, Decision
Davidson, and so much more.

But there’s something you have overlooked.
There’s been a gap in your schedule that just
hasn’t been filled for quite some time now,
and it used to be so very important. But what
was it?

Ah, yes, Davidson College Basketball. See-
ing freshmen dress up as Scotts or fraternities
painting up used to be the pinnacle of your
week, so what could basketball be up to these
days?

Recruiting. Recruiting, recruiting, recruit-
ing.

It’s the activity that head coach Bob
McKillop is entrenched in all year yet gets no

join men’s basketball in fall

comers. ,

“T think that all three of them will-have a
chance to contribute immediately. With the
veteran cast that we have returning, that cer-
tainly won’t be an easy task, but they’ re a very
special group of young men,” he said.

But don’t get frustrated if you don’t see
these guys first thing next year.

McKillop is quick to point out that they’ ve
got a pretty darn good bunch of guys coming
back. With all five starters returning, there will
certainly be a good bit of learning time for the
class of 2008 teammates.

Getting the two big men in this class may
have a bigger effect than most think, however,
as Nick Booker is considering graduating be-
fore the season.

“Nick is in his fourth year, and he has the
ability to graduate [before the season]. Nick
might opt to graduate rather than come back
here next year. That’s a decision he’s wres-

credit for until mid-
April when the names
get posted on the Col-
lege web page. So the
ultimate question is,
what'd we get?
There’s this 6’2”,
180-pound “combo
guard” who owned up
high school ball. An Il-
linois native, Jason
Richards averaged 20
points a game with four

tling with.”

“T think that all three of them — Such a toss would
will have a chance to contrib-
ute immediately. With the
veteran cast that we have
returning, that certainly
won't be an easy task.”

- Coach McKillop

be considerable for the
*Cats who often took
advantage of having
two physical men
down in the post in
Logan Kosmalski ’05
and Booker. Losing
Booker would require
Conor Grace ’05 and
Ian Johnson ’06 to
step up and would

assists and two steals to

‘go along with it. He totaled over 1,700 points

and put his name on 12 school records.

Add six inches, a little more meat, and a
French accent to Richards and you’ve got
Boris Meno, the 6’8” forward from Paris.
Having competed in the States for two years
now, Meno led his ‘high school team in re-
bounds and has taken home several tourna-
ment MVP awards. .

Tag-teaming down low with Meno will be
the Ohio-native Thomas Sander. Another 6’8”
forward, Sander was nominated for
McDonald’s All-American status, leading his
league in rebounds for two straight years.

McKillop is excited about this year’s new-

likely lead to more
calls on the freshmen.

Whatever the decision, the ’Cats have an-
other class of recruits on the books. Don’t
underestimate the troubles that the coaches
have to go through, though, to get these guys.
Davidson’s a tough school to compete in, and
it’s a tough school to study in, and these
coaches have to adjust to that.

“We look under every rock, around every
corner, and exhaust every network we have to
find people to come here. We find very spe-
cial people, and Davidson is a very special
place,” said McKillop. “Finding those people
who can fit in here socially and athletically
and can succeed is very challenging.”

from Tennis, page 16

Furman won the first set in five of the six
matches. The Paladins continued to roll, win-
ning at positions one, two, and four—the first
three matches to finish—to gain the insur-
mountable 4-0 lead.

The remaining Wildcats on court did not
give up, though, fighting to make the final
margin a little closer. Meghan Fillnow, at num-
ber three, and Kate Levitt ’07, at number five,
played great tennis in coming back to win the
second sets of their matches before ultimately
losing in tiebreakers played in place of a full
third set.

Fittingly on Senior Day, Hatch was the last
Davidson woman left on court, though differ-
ent circumstances would have been preferable.
The lone Wildcat to win the first set of her
match, Hatch stumbled in the second set and
followed the paths of Meghan Fillnow and
Levitt in losing a third-set tiebreaker.

“That was the toughest 7-0 loss we’ ve ever
had,” said Price. ‘If we had managed to force
a third set in [any of those first three singles
matches to finigh], it would have been a whole
different story. The momentum would have
shifted dramatically our way.”

The loss to Furman leaves Davidson’s final
conference record at 8-2, good enough for the

third seed in the tournament, behind Furman .

and College of Charleston, the ’Cats’ only
conference losses. If the seeding holds true to
form, the Wildcats: will play East Tennessee
State, Charleston, and Furman in succession
en route to the SoCon championship.

If a positive can be taken from the Furman ~

match, it is that the Wildcats have a very nice

yecent memory of rebounding against the Pala-

dins. Last season, the ’Cats lost 7-0 to Furman
in the regular season before turning around
and ending the Paladins 50-plus match con-
ference winning streak in the SoCon tourna-
ment semifinals. A similar turnaround this year
would give Davidson the SoCon champion-
ship trophy and trip to the NCAA’s.

If you speak Arabic, this is your chance to

' start a career as an Army Linguist. This
experience will help prepare you for a
future in business, government agencies, ;

- embassy work and more! You'll also get:
English training (if needed) and receive .
quick advancement in rank. $3
See your local Army Reserve Recruiter.
or visit arabic.goarmy.com/2 a]

"Call 1-866-635-8450 -

AN ARMY UF ONE
