12 THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOr Vou
SOOrls las. 7
Pel BR S PICKS OB

THE WEEK
Wildcat game of
the week:

Men’s Tennis vs. Chattanooga
Friday at 2:00 p.m. on the Covington
_ courts

The ’Cats have a dismal 0-3 record within
the conference, but they have a chance to
change that this weekend against Chatta-
nooga. While they have played three more
SoCon matches than the Wildcats, the Mocs
are a mere one game ahead in the standings
with a record of 1-5. The men are 6-5 overall
this season and, with some crowd support,
could easily improve on that record and ob-
tain chet 5 paren ED.

Outside the Den:

#1 Saint Joe's vs. #4 Wake Forest...

SPORTS

The recent appointment of Davidson Ath-
letie Director Jim Murphy to the newly-cre-
ated NCAA task force on recruiting has been
overshadowed by reports of a recruit-
ing scandal on Davidson’s own campus.
The task force was created in response
to the rash of scandals that have rocked
respected institutions such as the Uni-
versity of Colorado, where allegations
of alcohol abuse and sexual misconduct
on official recruiting visits have sur-
faced.

Recent events suggest that Davidson
may not be as far from the fray as people
think.

The visit in question occurred last
weekend, when a football recruit (whose
name is being withheld pending further inves-
tigation) made his official recruiting trip to
Davidson. The events reported by the recruit,
as leaked to the Davidsonian by an anonymous
source, give a detailed account of the scan-
dalous instances of alcohol abuse and sexual

Hopele

I’d like to start ¢ out t with a story on the
Japanese, now that we are on the subject.
In a time of economic despair, Japan and
its horse racing fans are
finding hope, or hope-
lessness, in a horse that
has lost 106 straight
races. In her last race,
Haru-urara, which means
Gentle Spring, finished in
tenth place in front of a
record crowd of 13,000
fans, hailing from across
the country. The runty
chestnut mare that wears
a pink Hello Kitty hood
was even jockeyed by one
of the most famed jockeys
in Japan, Yutaka Take. Is this hopeless horse
the key to Japan’s return to economic pros-
perity? It’s a possibility. The racetrack, Kochi
Racecourse, was nearly bankrupt until they

March: a month of miracles ; al

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Staff Columnist

It was entirely fitting that, as the skies
opened up last Thursday at noon and the rain
came pouring down, the NCAA Tournament
began. You see, for so many of us March
Madness has washed away any and all other
obligations.

But can you blame us? With more than
seven hours of live basketball for four con-
secutive days, sports junkies and casual fans
alike have been hard pressed to find any rea-
son to leave the couch. Meals consisted en-
tirely of leftovers, phones went unanswered,

bathrooms became obsolete, and relationships

ended all because 14 games came down to the
last shot.

CBS is lowest on the major network totem
pole; that’s common knowledge. No offense
Survivor and Star Search fans, but those shows
have about as much appeal as Magic Cards.
When it comes to sports, however, CBS domi-
nates, and March Madness is the network’s
version of Spring Frolics.

On Saturday night there were two incred-
ible games ending at exactly the same time,
and CBS was forced to switch back and forth
between the Syracuse/Maryland game and the
Stanford/Alabama contest. It got to the point
where the games basically meshed into one,
and you were rooting for Syrabama to upset
Stanland.

Every tournament day, Cinderellas are born
and Goliaths are slain, all while our emotions
are about as stable as Dick Vitale on crank.
Indeed, the outcome of a single game can

Thursday evening, where he met his host
(whose name will also be withheld). The two,
along with the host’s roommate, then traveled
to a local Davidson bar, called the Brickhouse.
Here the group indulged themselves on

promoted this four-legged loser, and their rev-

enues began to rise . . . That is not all that
Hara-urara is doing for the Japanese. We
in the United States have our “Seabiscuit,” in
time the Japanese will see a movie about this
winless horse (it is in the making). Also in-
cluded in the Haru craze are pop songs about
her, t-shirts being printed, “Hara” tours being
offered, postage stamps being made, and lucky
charms available containing strands of her
hair. Selling “lucky charms” from the hair of
a record-setting loser? Actually, the record for
most consecutive losses by a Japanese horse
in 161 races by Hakuhou Queen in 1992...
If only it was on PPV. Picture this: Nate
“Galaxy Warrior’ Campbell and Robbie
“Bomber” Peden are going at each other
in the super-featherweight title eliminator
bout in Temecula, California. Campbell,
ranked at number two, is ahead on two of the
judges’ scorecards and level with the third in
the fifth round. An boxer philosophy, this night

make or break one’s day, night or even entire
weekend.

Case and point: Saturday night North Caro-
lina loses to Texas, and both parties on
Patterson Court were noticeably empty, due
in large part to the many Tar Heels fans sit-
ting at home in the dark remembering the bet-
ter days of Eric Montross and Serge Zwicker.

Similarly, Davidson’s club lacrosse team
hammered Alabama on Saturday night, 17-2,
but the Crimson Tide laxers were not drown-
ing their sor-
rows at the
hotel follow-
ing the game.
Instead, they
were out cel-
ebrating 8-
seed ’Bama’s ,
victory over
top-seeded
Stanford. It
takes a small
miracle for
anyone to for-
get a 15-goal
loss within an hour of the final whistle, club
sport or not.

Certainly, many of us enjoyed watching the
’Tide roll over the Cardinal, but how many of
you had Stanford going to the Final Four, or
even all the way? Busted Bracket much?
Therein ligs the greatest problem of March
Madness: our hearts want Cinderella, but eur
brackets (and our money) need her evil step-
‘sister.

Which brings us to the most frustrating and

misconduct that may push Davidson ahead of chicken wings before
CU in the national spotlight.
The recruit arrived in the student union late

WEpnespay, Marcu 24, 2004

: oe
ing asked to leave the
bar after the host allegedly attempted to order

a round of beers using a chalked license.

. The group then traveled back to cam-
pus in search of a party, and ended up
back in the union for “Trivia Night.”
Here the three again indulged them-
selves‘on chicken wings, with the recruit
reportedly becoming slightly sick from
all the food.

The group then returned to the host’s
room, where the recruit spent the night
on the futon listening to the host make
out with his girlfriend, who spent the
night. The host reportedly promised,
“Tomorrow night will be much better.
Just wait.”

The recruit was then forced wake at
9:00 a.m. the next morning and brought to his
host’s 9:30 political science class, because, ac-
cording to the host, “This is my easiest class.

see Sideline, page 13

should be wrapped up in the hands of
Campbell. But, only explained by cockiness
or fraud, the Galaxy Warrior drops his gloved
hands to the side, sticks out his chin, and dares
the Australian Peden to hit him. Accepting the
dare, the Bomber drops a ferocious left hook
and gives Campbell his first Everlast tattoo,
directly on the chin. Well, not really, but Peden
TKO’s the cocky Campbell, end of story . . .
Pascale Paton struggled for eight hours
when she finally reeled in a 400kg shark of
the coast of Sydney, Australia. The long-day
began at 9:45 a.m., when her sixteen-year-old
felt the pull of this 4.4-meter long shark who
had clapped down on her 5 kg salmon bait. It
wasn’t until 6 p.m. that same night when she
pulled in her winning fish in the Sydney Bro- ~
ken Bay fishing tournament. Pascale had this
to say about the miraculous fishing display:
“My legs started to hurt, but I wouldn’t give
up.” It’s too bad this Australian can’t speak
“horse.” Japanese horse that is.

ad madness

entertaining tasks known to men and women
between the ages of 18 and 35: selecting your
bracket. Unless you’re a complete dork, no
one knows enough about each match-up to
make even an educated guess about the out-
come. March Madness is the great equalizer,
and any team can win on any given night—
except 16-seeds, which have never won.
Often times, especially in the first round,
you’ve got to invent a reason. why the chess
club president will beat the quarterback and
win the girl. I’d love to hear why anyone
picked 12-seed Pacific to knock off 5-seed
Providence. Was it a 2pac vs. Biggie type of
thing? Or maybe it’s because Providence is
run by the Italian Mafia? (Sadly, it’s true).
And then there are those 8 vs. 9 match-ups
that are almost unfair to us bracketologists.
This is like picking between Bird and Magic,
Gretzky and Lemieux, or Britney and Jessica.
It’s within these match-ups that we create the
most elaborate reasons defending our choice.
For instance, I had 8-seed Washington over

' 9-seed UAB because I read an ESPN article

about perverts on UAB’s football team. _

As for the rest of my bracket, it’s not look-
ing good—lI’ve only got eight teams in the
Sweet 16, and three of my Elite Eight teams
are gone. My underdogs didn’t rise up and my
favorites fell down.

Fortunately, having no real allegiance to any
one team (my parents went to Holy Cross, and
Davidson isn’t dancing this year), I’m not
obligated to automatically send some school
like Duke or Kentucky to the final. And so I
ask, does anyone else have Pittsburgh cutting
down.the nets on April 5? Anyone?

