Staff Editorial

Service to whom?

“The primary purpose of Davidson College is to assist stu-
dents in developing humane instincts and disciplined and cre-
ative minds for lives of leadership and service.”

These words from the College’s Statement of Purpose may
seem straightforward enough, but in today’s complex global
world, achieving those goals are often far more difficult than
they seem.

As The Davidsonian reports this week, Sanctuary, a student
group on campus, has started amovementto persuade Davidson
organizations to buy their t-shirts from “sweat-free” manufac-
turers, rather than the local distributor we have long relied upon.

The implications of their project should be given close atten-
tion by the entire Davidson community since they so clearly
highlight the incredibly complex issue of foreign competition
and job outsourcing that has captured the national attention and
may well play a deciding role in the upcoming presidential
election.

While changing our provider to a “sweat-free” company may
seem to have few negative implications, doing so could put the
seven employees of our current provider, Davidson Screen Print-
ers, in serious jeopardy of losing their jobs.

In fulfilling Davidson’s mission of developing “lives of lead-
ership and service,” who are we supposed to serve first, our
local community or those in the larger world outside of our
town, state and country?

If serving one group necessitates hurting another, with what
moral compass do we chart our course?

These are each important questions that get to the heart of our
College’s Statement of Purpose, yet in today’s complex world
lead to no easy answers. ;

The very complexity of this problem has caused our editorial
staff many headaches in coming up with a firm stance to take
on this issue.

While many feel a deep connection and strong loyalty to the
members of our local community, we also feel the need to better
the lot for those working in far away in places and who have so
little, who many of us may never see.

Because of how difficult and personal these decisions about
how best to fulfill our purpose are, there should be no official
policy—whether college-wide, or through a subsidiary admin-
istration like Patterson Court Council—on where to buy our
shirts. The decision to support local manufacturers or fight glo-
bal economic injustice must be made individually by each or-
ganization on campus, according to the consciences of its
members, and not mandated by overarching policy.

Only by examining this dilemma individually can we each
hope to discover what “lives of leadership and service” truly
means.

The Bavidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor in Chief
David Crow
Managing Editors
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
News Editors
Ruchi Turakhia & Sarah-Grace Wesley

f Perspectives Editor

Zach Williams
Arts & Living Editors
Cannon Hodge & Sarah Robinson

Yowl Editor

%, rele “Nick. orton” d
“Circulation & Advertisitig Managers

i

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
Apri 7, 2004

The Outpost Debate:
Round two

Good ol’ Bobby. Our fearless president shows signs of fur-
ther loosening his tie by his willingness to discuss Outpost:
Round two.

It’s interesting to see who will be fighting for or against the
Outpost. Can I see everyone that was in favor of scratching the

Outpost from the
beginning? Anybody? Oh, that’s
right. It was an administration policy
that was pushed through despite a vast
and unified outcry from the student
body.

The Outpost debate pitted the stu-
dent body against the administration,
and round two is unlikely to be any

ee EAT
a Bee

different.

Unless of course RLO Dean Marsicano gets her way and
succeeds in pitting students against students.

She has framed the debate into whether or not Kappa Sig
should be allowed back on campus by stating there isn’t enough
space for both the Outpost and the fraternity; we have tochoose.

Does anyone remember the days of yesteryear when both the
Outpost and KappaSig were on the court? Has anything
changed?

The outpost debate has once again been framed by the pow-
ers that be. As the debate continues, let us not forget those of
us who have missed out on the Outpost their entire Davidson
career.

Evans McGowan ’05
o

Correction

Last week’s article, “H.S. Juniors flock to campus in biggest
~ Junior Day yet” stated incorrectly stated the number of stu-
dents visiting Davidson on Junior Day.

During the first Junior Day in February, 150 students were
registered and 400 total people attended - the 400 includes
parents, siblings, etc.

During the most recent Junior Day, 201 students were regis-
tered and 566 total people attending - again the 500 includes
family members.

The numbers stated in the article included all visitors, not
just students.

Bs \ 7,
 — —: Ronee PR nT

BD Dew oer aa
GonTe-COM

| Patent Sweater Ali Fitzgerald

WHY \S Your
“AT GERBIL our

WM A Cricetus Gri
ae ek WORDS, yi
A HAMSTER!

) AM CERTAINLY Not

..+ AND ORANGE RINDS
RETAIN WATER, THANK YOU.

Wornirn Shoes do
mot ACtall. enable

Weoreay to walk.

