THE DAvIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2004 7

Dorm Living: The Best (and Worst) of Life at Davidson

By Katie HuNTER
Staff Writer

A day in the life of a Davidson student
doesn’t allow much time for leisure, but where
does one go when those precious free moments
are available?

“Any spare minute that I have between
classes, I come to my room to listen to music
or nap,” discloses freshman Sarah Rice ’08.

Many people would agree with Rice when
it comes to their rooms, viewing them as a
private getaway from the craziness of college
life. Perfect for reading, studying, or that elu-
sive action of sleeping, dorms provide students
with the familiarity of having their own per-
sonal space. “In some of our Counseling Cen-

The Beatles adorn the wall.

Got Art?

Want to write for
Awl, contact
sarobinson or

anmartin.

Flores and Koukopoulos’ room on 2nd Rich.

Pa

Photo by Katie Hunter

ter workshops on stress management, we en-
courage students to attend to ways in which
they can make their residence hall rooms seem
really theirs, imparting a sense of “home” or
haven to their rooms” explains Dr. David
Staton, Director of Student Counseling.

Students often choose to do this by add-
ing personal touches and furnishings to remind
themselves of regional ties. “I saw aroom with
the Texas state flag on the door, and thought it
was acool idea,” said Elizabeth Moore ’08, on
her decision to display the South Carolina state
flag in her room. Moore, from Spartanburg,
says that the flag reminds her of home, espe-
cially since most items in her room “are from
Davidson or E-Bay.” Posters, photographs,
flags, and stuffed animals are a few of the more
popular items that adorn Davidson dorms.

While the majority can find some com-
mon ground when it comes to particular dorm
decorations, major differences exist in the way
students treat their special spaces. A brief tour
of each of the major residence halls provided
some great insight into how students utilize,
use, and sometimes abuse their temporary
havens.

Some take great pride in their glorified
closets, choosing to take the time to shop for
unique furnishings, hang wall adornments, and
even buy permissible pets like goldfish. Many
of the more hospitable students opt to extrava-
gantly “doup” their dorms in hopes that friends
and hall mates will visit. As first-year student
Whitney Waites ’08 puts it, “We decorated our
room in a manner that makes not only us feel
comfortable, but our friends feel comfortable
as well.” Waites, referring to herself and room-
mate Emily Zipperstein ’08, furnished their pad
with a giant dish chair from Urban Outfitters.
It comfortably seats hall mate Kathryn
Hamilton ’08, who admits that she “hibernates
in this chair, even when Emily and Whitney

aren’t in the room.” This room has received —
“ numerous compliments from visitors, includ-

ing one from fellow Third Belk resident David
Dennis ’08. “I call it mamma’s crib because
when you walk in, you feel at home,” states
Dennis.

Occupying the other end of the decora-
tive spectrum are a few residents of 2nd
Richardson. Roommates Yancy Flores ’08 and
Morgan Koukopoulos ’08 admit that they have
greater concerns than the state of their living

quarters, which were too cluttered for the in-
terview to take place in their quarters. ““Wecan’t
have anybody over to sit down,” said Flores
apologetically, “because my laundry is all over
the chair.” It is difficult to walk into their room
without stepping on some article of clothing or
leftover food box. They have also taken to
hanging papers from their central light source,
in an effort to create “mood lighting” and shield
outthe glare. “That was Morgan’s brainstorm,”
declared Flores.

“It doesn’t work so well now since most of
the papers have fallen, but we are too lazy to
put them back up.”

When asked why they allowed their dorm to
turn into such a dive, Flores candidly replied,
“Morgan and I really do mean to clean up our
room, but we are always busy and don’t see a
reason to if people don’t come over.” This
seems to resonate with many Davidson stu-
dents, who have disorderly dorms as a conse-
quence of their constant activity. This leaves
little time for decorating and clean-up. In
Flores’ case, though, the lack of tidiness often
causes more trouble than finding time for
housekeeping. “The funky smell in our room
came from that glass of milk I left out for 3
days, combined with the odor of Morgan’s
work-out clothes,” he states. However, Flores
admits that most of the stuff in his room is just
“out and waiting to be put away.”

crs

e encourage students to
attend to ways, in which
they can make their rest-

dence hall rooms seem
really theirs, imparting a
sense of home or haven to
their rooms.”

-Dr. David Staton, Director

of Student Counseling

Putting possessions away and making good
use of space are nearly as important as the
decorations one uses when it comes to dorm
living. The avérage dimensions of a Belk dor-
mitory room is only 15’6’’ by 10’. A recent
renovation, however, has made Belk residence
hall one of the finer buildings on campus. “The
carpeting makes it a lot nicer, even though it
will probably get torn up pretty soon,” states
Jeff Yeakel ’07, a former resident of 1st Belk.
“There definitely used to be a foul odorin Belk,”
Yeakel reminisces, “especially on my floor.”
Yeakel now inhabits Ist Watts, living on a
comparatively quieter sub-free floor. When
asked about the best aspect of his room now,
Yeakel immediately replied “my roommate,
Jon Holbrook.”

Not everyone is as lucky as those two when
it comes to living, and decorating, harmoni-
ously, “One roommate’ s neat and clean, quiet,
organic, candle-scented haven is another’ s ster-
ile hell, because he or she instead craves visual

A room that looks like home.

and auditory noise to feel at home,” states Dr.
Staton. This is one reason why Davidson em-
ploys the Meyers-Briggs Personality Test to
determine best roommate matches. The Resi-
dence Life Office tries to pair students up by
focusing on their living styles, which includes
how much care each person devotes to their
space.

Decorating rivalry isn’t the only dorm di-
lemma that Davidson students have to contend
with. The occupants of Base Richardson are
reputed to be some of the most “mentally
stable” students on campus, due to their ability
to contend with some of the meanest living
conditions. When asked about the worst aspects
of life on Base Rich, resident Charles Horwitz
’08 replied, “The small windows, lack of light,
the smell we get when it rains a lot, and the fact
that few people ever venture down here because
it is so dank.” However, Horwitz stresses the
fact that “Not once have I ever heard any of the
guys complain about our hall, because what
doesn’t kill you makes you stronger, right?”

The sophomore apartments are also reputed
to be lacking in visual appeal, but are known to
provide residents with greater feelings of in-
dependence. Roommates Megan Qualey ’07
and Margaret Brooks ’07 enjoy living “down
the hill,” which allows them to be closer to their
classmates and eating houses. “There is no
storage, no sink, and really low ceilings,” ac-
knowledges Brooks, “but we love living down
here.” When asked if she considered these fac-
tors a detriment to her living experience, Brooks
emphasized that “the rooms don’t really mat-
ter, it’s the people who make it fun.”

Most Davidson students seem to agree.
However, many also take advantage of the
privacy that a dorm affords amid the commu-
nal chaos of college. “I know that most people
need asense of being grounded that is afforded
in part by having one’s own space,” states Dr.
Staton.

Though Davidson students treat this space
inso many different ways, this concept appears
to ring true for most.

atie Hunter

Waites and Zipperstein pose in their bowl chair.
