14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS _

WEDNEsDAY, J ANUARY 21, 2004

At halfway point, Wildcats standing strong in third place

pAVIDSON
(7

Katie Hamilton ’07, Meghan Bryant ’04, and Ashley

Hallsted ’04 have helped propel the Wildcats fro

NM Vi (

ae

)

m

the middle of the SoCon pack; the team is currently three games behind divison-leading Chattanooga

With a 7-3 record in their
last 10 games, women’s
basketball poised to surge

By Erin DELK
Senior Staff Writer

With the first half of the conference sched-
ule under its belt, the women’s basketball team
is looking tougher, deeper, and more prepared
than it has in several years. Currently ranked
third in the Southern Conference, the Wild-
cats have emerged from the middle of the pack
with a 6-3 conference record since the end of
last semester, putting them at 9-7 overall.

Davidson started the break with a convinc-
ing 65-49 road win over College of Charles-
ton, shooting 41 percent from the floor to the
Cougars’ paltry 30 percent. Nine Davidson
players contributed 14 or more minutes as the
*Cats moved to .500 for the first time this sea-
son.

Only two days later, however, the ’Cats gave
up a disappointing loss here at Belk Arena to
Western Carolina, 54-62, right before leaving
for their six day break for Christmas. Perhaps

exhausted from exams and needing some rest,
Davidson shot a mere 5Opercent from the free
throw line. As head coach Annette Watts re-
marked, “We shot poorly and we allowed
Western to make the last offensive run, which
spoiled our hopes of winning the game.”
Thirteen days later,
any memories of the
Western loss appeared
fully forgotten as the

Game after game,
the ability of the

45 percent from the floor, but App State’s last
second three point.shot gave them the 80-81
victory.

In the ensuing practices, Davidson ad-
dressed their defensive problems, and they ar-
guably played their best week of basketball
this past week, winning two
of three games in five days,
including an important road
win against Elon on Satur-

Wildcats tore through b en ch an d th e start- day. ““The five day span of
Georgia Southern, games proved that our non-
winning by nearly the @rsS CO splay together conference schedule had

same score as the
Charleston game, 62-
49. Courtney Laird ’04
had a stellar game with
a career high 21 points
and key baskets with
the shot clock winding
down to push the ’Cats to a 3-1 conference
record.

Where the ’Cats had an offensive lapse in
the Western game, they experienced q defen-
sive one in their January 6 meeting with App
State. Both teams shot ‘extremely well, over
50 percent from the three point line and around

epee 36

and pick up each
other’s slack has been
a key factor in
Davidson’s wins.

prepared us for lots of
games in a few days,” Watts
said. ;

Last Monday night’s
game against division-lead-
ing UT-Chattanooga gave
Davidson some much de-
served respect in the conference and proved
that the team can play close against the best
in the conference. In an extremely hard fought
game from tip-off, UTC made Davidson work
for every basket. Their on-the-ball pressure
was intense, but the Wildcats stayed strong,
committing only 12 turnovers to UTC’s 20.

The ’Cats kept the lead for the entire first
half, relinquishing it with 17 minutes left in
the game. The game remained close until
Davidson hit a wall of exhaustion with about
five minutes remaining. UTC continued to hit
big shots, mostly three pointers, and Davidson
did not step up its coverage of the shooters.

It took Chattanooga’s shooting an amazing
63percent from the floor and 75 percent from
the three point line in the second half to fi-
nally put Davidson away, 68-79.

Undeterred, the Wildcats returned to action
two days later in an important game against
Furman. Davidson’s 57-46 win put them ahead
of Furman in the Southern Conference
rankings. Despite taking nearly four minutes
to get on the board, the ’Cats found help from
their bench, which scored 14 of their first 19
points. As Robyn Flewelling ’04 notes, “Play-
ers such as Tia Washington (’07) and Katie
Delk (’06) added a great spark off the bench
and ignited the team.” .

Washington’s quick defense and Delk’s de-
fensive presence in the lane forced 25 Furman
turnovers and a mere 35percent shooting from
the floor, including zero percent from the three
point line. On the other end, Furman refused
to get out of their signature zone defense, and
they paid dearly. Davidson shot 50 percent
from behind the arc, with Katie Hamilton ’07
leading all scorers with 15 points.

Hamilton again led all scorers with 19 points
in Davidson’s exciting 64-62 comeback win
over at Elon on Saturday. Previously 24-2 and
averaging 80 points per game at home, the
Phoenix presented a tough challenge to the
Wildcats with great inside and outside pres-
ence in guard Holly Andrews and 6’ 5” center
Courtney Nyborg.

Davidson had a sluggish start, allowing
Andrews 17 first half points before she was
sidelined for the remainder of the game with
an injury; however, as Emily Callahan ’05
remarked, “The starters cut down Elon’s lead
in the first four minutes of the second half,
and from there, the game was back and forth.”

Laird’s layup with 51 seconds remaining put
Davidson up for good, and their perfect 11-11
free throw shooting in the second half sealed
the win. As Watts noted, “Our strength is in
our numbers.”

Game after game, the ability of the bench
and the starters to play together and pick up
each other’s slack has been a key factor in
Davidson’s wins. If the Wildcats continue this
trend, the team should be a factor in the SoCon

_tournament. The ’Cats are currently third in

the conference and one game behind second-
place East Tennessee State.

Iphia Center i

Education at Work

Get a taste of life in one of
America’s greatest cities.
Earn academic credit living, working
and studying in Philadelphia!

Financial Aid applies and
_ Academic Credits transfer!

