THE DavipsoNniIAN

By Jor REED
Staff Columnist

Despite what Mr. Hall would have you be-
lieve, Senator Kerry’s health care plan is in no
way a government takeover of our nation’s
health system. On the contrary, the plan allows
Americans to choose from a broad selection of
competing, private plans to find the one that
best fits their needs. It would also grant a tax
credit of up to 50 percent, as well as govern-
ment payment of 75 percent of catastrophic
costs (which could save families up to $1,000
in health premiums), for businesses who pro-
vide their employees with quality health care.
As President, Senator Kerry will expand Med-
icaid and the State Children’s Health Insurance
Program to provide coverage to 19 million
Americans, including guaranteeing that every
child in America has health care. Finally, John
Kerry supports reducing the costs of prescrip-
tion drugs both by allowing the re-importation
of safe drugs from Canada, which have been
found to be between 33 percent and 80 percent
cheaper than in ourown country. Mr. Hall seems
to think this common-sense, pro-consumer idea
would lead to the end of medicine, worldwide.

Many people, upon seeing Senator Kerry’s
ambitious plan, wonder quite naturally how he
expects to pay for it. While I have absolutely
no idea where Mr. Hall got his absurd ten-tril-
lion-dollar figure (even the conservative
American Enterprise Institute puts the ten-year
cost at $1.5 trillion, far below Mr. Hall’s source-
less number, and Dr. Kenneth Thorpe of Emory
University says it would be $653 billion), this
is certainly a valid question. To answer it, the
Kerry campaign has gone through and meticu-
lously costed out his plan, showing in detail
exactly how it can be paid for. Many of his
middle-class tax cuts will be specifically tar-
geted to make health care more affordable to

By SAM SPENCER

Staff Columnist:

In some ways, this election is about the plans
that John Kerry does not have. Kerry would
rather take the $11 billion dollars yearly that
Bush wants to spend on missile defense and
invest itin homeland security. How isa missile
defense system going to stop terrorists who
smuggle dirty bombs into our country?

John Kerry would not cut homelarid secu-
rity funding by $1 billion as Bysh plans to in
2006. John Kerry will restore our respect and
credibility in the world. John Kerry will work
to gain allies in the War on Terror, even if we
~ cannot gain allies like France and Germany in
Iraq. John Kerry will engage in both multilat-
eral and bilateral talks with North Korea, espe-
cially since Japan, South Korea, China, and
Russia have done the same thing, and liave
urged us to follow their lead.

Additionally, John Kerry will expedite ef-
forts to secure loose nuclear material in Rus-
sia, because he understands that time is of the
essence in a country that becomes more dicta-
torial with every passing week. John Kerry will
increase troop numbers abroad.

John Kerry’s plan for foreign policy is a
nuanced, multifaceted approach to a post-9/11
world, emphasizing homeland security.

For all of his efforts, what has Bush done to
protect us, aside from giving us a color-coded
guide to terrorism and a quagmire in Afghani-
stan? Bush is so out of touch with reality that
he claimed just a few weeks ago that the
“Taliban no longer is in existence.”””

We cannot re-elect a president who stated
that “[Iraq] attacked us” without retracting the
comment or correcting himself. We cannot re-
elect a president who resorted to nuclear
scaremongering, warning of a “smoking gun
[that is] a mushroom cloud” in order to make

PERSPECTIVES
_Issues Crossfire: Elections 2004 _

the middle class, and his plan’s cost to the gov-
ernment would be paid for by rolling back the
Bush tax cuts for the top | percent of income-
eamers, which would raise about $860 billion
in new revenue over the next ten years.

Mr. Hall notes that “when wealthy individu-
als around the globe need the best health care
they come to the United States.” Yes, Mr. Hall.
Wealthy people have no problem getting health
care here in the United States. Wonderful. Now
that that’s taken care of, perhaps we should con-
cern ourselves with those in the other income
brackets, who seem to be finding that more and
more difficult these days. He also claims that
“every year health care is getting better for
every American.” Well, let’s see what the facts
have to say about that. In 2004, 5.2 million more
Americans are uninsured than were in 2000.

‘The total number of uninsured is now around

45 million, a record. Family health premiums
have risen by arecord 64 perecent over the last
four years, and over the past year grew at five
times the rate of wages . That’s the status quo
that President Bush and Mr. Hall are defend-
ing. Perhaps they would like to explain to the
millions of Americans who have either lost their
insurance or seen their health premiums eat up
a larger and larger share of their income (which,
by the way, is down by an average of $1,535
under President Bush) how much better health
care in America has gotten over the past four
years.

Of course, anyone who sees the above sta-
tistics can understand that something needs to
be done about our nation’s health-care system,
and that it needs to be done quickly. Fortunately,
John Kerry has a concrete and comprehensive
plan, paid for without raising middle-class
taxes, to bring down costs and provide cover-
age to more Americans who are in such des-
perate need of it. He’ll make it a priority from
his first day in office.

the case for war. We cannot re-elect a president
who has lost international credibility. I sup-
ported our country’s withdraw from the Kyoto
Accords, but Mr. Bush did it in a tactless way
that perturbed other world leaders.

Bush squandered our post-9/1 1 international
respect with a rush to war that spent our diplo-
matic currency so quickly that we have a re-
spect deficit.

Bush didn’t even have a plan to win the
peace. Kerry always wanted to disarm Saddam,
but that did not mean we had to go to war. Now,
Kerry justly criticizes a mismanaged and un-
just conflict.

Republican allegations of “flip-flops” com-
paring Kerry’s votes on Iraq are fallacious; as
Republican Richard Burr said last week, an
opponent in a political race can “pull a vote on
either side of any issue if [they] want to. Every
[politician] is susceptible to that.” Kerry was
for the liberation of Kuwait in 1991, buthe took
acourageous stand against an unconstitutional
resolutioi that would have set a bad precedent.

I think that the differences in this election
boil down to different points of view..

Bush thinks that “either you’re with us or
you’ re againstus;” John Kerry understands that
policy isn’t a black and white affair.

My opponent in this crossfire said in the

‘Charlotte Observer last month that this elec-

tion is all about the red and the blue states. I
disagree: this election is about the United
States. I’m nota true believer in all of Kerry’s
policies, but I believe in picking the best man
for the job regardless of politics. I want a presi-
dent who will unify the people of America and
the people of the world; I want a president who
will tell me the truth; and most of all, I want a
president who understands our priorities in the
War on Terror. If you share my priorities, I
humbly ask you to send John Forbes Kerry to
the Oval Office on November 2.

By MatrTHew Ha.
Staff Columnist

Under Senator Kerry’s plan, the government
would cover the insurance of young children
and the elderly. It is estimated that such a plan
would costten trillion dollars. Where does John
Kerry think he will get funding for such a pro-
gram? He says that he will not raise taxes to
pay for it, but faced with the program’s im-
mense costs, he will have few options. In Eu-
rope, the prohibitive costs of government-spon-
sored health care have put such a heavy tax
burden on the populace that disposable income
is decreasing. As aresult, Europe’s population
is declining.

Advocates of socialized medicine cite the
universal coverage that many Europeans en-
joy, and campaign for a similar system in the
United States. And while John Kerry isn’t call-
ing for universal coverage, his plan may even-
tually lead to socialized medicine in the United
States. Historically, when a government gets

- involved in an industry, it tends to grab more

and more power until it finally controls that
industry. The United Kingdom has had social-
ized medicine since the 1950s, and the result
has been long waits and inefficient and inad-
equate service. What is the United Kingdom
doing today? They are moving away from
socialized health care, and are working toward
privatizing their medical industry. Moreover,
when wealthy individuals around the globe
need the best health care they come to the
United States. This is a testament to the
strengths and endurance of our current system.

Another hallmark of Senator Kerry’s plan is
to allow Americans to buy prescription drugs
from Canada. The Left’s take on the drug in-
dustry is essential to understanding this debate.
Kerry and many others continually criticize
American pharmaceutical companies for

By JosepH ADAMS
Staff Columnist

In the epic struggle between freedom and
tyranny, the United States of America must net
strive for a balance of power between these two
forces, but for an absolute victory for freedom.
This, simply put, is at the core of President
George W. Bush’s foreign policy. The fight for
liberty has never been easy, and if freedom were
easy to acquire, we wouldn’t value it as much
as we do. A lot has changed in our world since
the terrorist attacks of September 11, and in
some ways the struggle for freedom has been
made more difficult by the new enemy we face.
However, if we take the right approach in the
days ahead and reaffirm our commitment to
the cause of freedom, then we will prevail.
President Bush’s foreign policy reflects the
right approach for America.

Only sixty years ago, the United States si-
multaneously fought against Germany, Italy,
and Japan. Today, a senator from Massachu-
setts tells us that the country that defeated Hitler,
Mussolini, and Hirohito cannot win in Afghani-
stan or Iraq. America suffered hundreds of
thousands of casualties in World War II. We
lost more troops defending the Aleutian Islands
from the Japanese than we have lost in two years
in Iraq. President Bush believes that just as
freedom was worth fighting for then, itis worth
fighting for now. Senator Kerry disagrees, and
that is why Icould never support his candidacy
to be President of the United States.

The most solemn duty that any president has
is to protect the American people. After Sep-
tember 11, President George W. Bush’under-
stood that the task of protecting our country
had changed, so he took immediate action to
keep America safe. To defeat the new threat of
terrorists while remaining ever-mindful of
conventional threats to our national security,

WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 27, 2004

11

charging what they call exorbitant prices. Do
Kerry and his liberal buddies realize how new
medicines are developed? It costs a lot of money
to research, produce, and market new drugs.
The entire world depends on our pharmaceu-
tical industry, and our pharmaceutical indus-
try depends on the American public purchas-
ing its drugs. Buying cheaper drugs from
Canada may seem like a good solution, but at
what cost? If we start purchasing drugs from
Canada, drug companies profits will decrease,
and subsequently, research will be curtailed.
With reduced research, pharmaceutical com-
panies will be forced to make difficult choices
in what to research. Our continued progress in
health care will be threatened.

John Kerry’s plan is dangerously short-
sighted. He may insure a couple of a million
people, but he would risk fundamentally alter-
ing the finest medical industry in the world. In
addition, Kerry’s program would be extremely
expensive, and would lead to an increase in
taxes for all Americans. If our government
cannot effectively run social security (which
is essentially insurance), do we really think it
can handle our health care? President Bush, on
the other hand, wants to protect the health care
system of the United States. He realizes that
the best medical service in the world is a result
of privatized health care. Moreover, he under-
stands that the pharmaceutical industry is cru-
cial to the future of medicine.

Under our current system, research and tech-
nology are accomplishing things we never
dreamed possible. Every year we are making
advances in medicine. Every year health care
is getting better for every American.

As our economy continues to surge, more
and more people will become insured. The fu-
ture of health care in the United States is bright.
* With President Bush’s re-election, we can
be assured it shall not dim.

President Bush made it clear that our country
will use every tool we have—homeland de-
fenses, law enforcement, intelligence, diplo-
macy, and military power—to keep America
safe. Today, the president’s foreign policy
agenda is simple. We will defend the peace by
fighting terrorists where they are and not wait-
ing until they attack us here at home. We will
preserve the peace by continuing to build strong
alliances with other countries. And we will
extend the peace by promoting free and open
societies in every corner of the globe.

The most important thing to notice about
Senator Kerry’s foreign policy in this election
cycle is that it consists only of second-guess-
ing. Indeed, it seems that in Mr. Kerry’s mind,
hindsight is the one thing needful in America’s
foreign policy. When the stakes are high and a
decision must be made, Kerry takes a neutral
position. If things go well, he says the decision
was the right one. If things go imperfectly, he
reassures us he would have done differently.
Fortunately for America, Senator Kerry has left
a telling record in the Senate of times when he
did take a stand on contentious issues: To his
credit, Senator Kerry had been consistent in
his stances on foreign policy issues until the
late 1990s; unfortunately, he had been consis-
tently wrong.

What kind of message does that send to our
friends and allies throughout the world that
Kerry opposed the liberation of Kuwait?

In the war in which we find ourselves today,
Senator Kerry’s foreign policy agenda is based
entirely on his ability to criticize the decision-
makers in our government. However, if he is
elected president, the difficult decisions of war
will be his to make. If Senator Kerry cannot
take a courageous stand when the pressure of
the office of the presidency is not on his shoul-
ders, how could we possibly trust him to pro-
tect our nation from the Oval Office?
