THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 2004

15

Women’s Cross Country
places well in Pennsylvania

Men's team does not fare
as well against top compe-
tition from northern states

By PiERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

Last Saturday the cross country teams trav-
eled to Bethlehem, Pa. for the Paul Short Run
at Lehigh University. Amongst stiff national
competition, the men’s team finished 20th out
of 24 Division I opponents. The women as a
team, meanwhile, placed 11th out of 26 Divi-
sion I foes.

For the women, the spotlight again be-
longed to Senior Kelly Fillnow ’05, who
placed 12th out of over 200 runners in a time
of 21:20.89. Fillnow’s performance proved
that she can compete and do well against the
nation’s elite runners.

Freshman Brittany Crawford ’08 also ran
well, placing 32nd in 21:53.19. Brenna
Burns’08 (72nd, 22:34.61), Anna Brew ’05
(73rd, 22:35.14), and Meghan Fillnow ’05
(107th, 23:17.59) rounded out the top five for
the Wildcats. Sally Stanhope ’05 (110th,
23:18.46) and Annie O’Donnell ’08 (113th,
23:22.19) ran sixth and seventh for the team
and contributed to the overall effort.

Even though the women were not one of
the top teams at the event, the competition at
Lehigh was better than what the Wildcats will
face in the Southern Conference and served
as great preparation for the season to come.
Said senior Meghan Fillnow ’08, “The high
level of competition was great preparation for
our conference tournament...I think we sur-
prised ourselves how [well] we can stay with
the big teams.”

In their first 8K of the season, the men raced
decently at the Paul Short Run. As co-captain
Nick Lehman ’05 said, the performance was
not anything “‘to be excited about,” nor was it
anything to be “discouraged [about].” Coach
Gary Andrew described the meet as”“‘a solid
performance.”

Leading the ’Cats was junior Jonathan

Baker ’06, who ran a time of 26:07.72 and

placed 97th overall. Baker’s race, according

to Andrew was “the third fastest time by a
Davidson runner on [the] course.” Following
him was Austin Mercadante (110th, 26:22.77),
who according to Andrew “recorded his fast-

est 8K time ever.” Sam Morris ’08 (122nd,

26:51.70), Lee Wheless ’05 (127th, 26:57.96),
and Nick Lehman ’05 (130th, 27:00.30) filled
out the Wildcéat top five. John Doehring ’07
(145th, 27:34.09) and Douglas Noreen ’07
(150th, 28:02.53) finished sixth and seventh
for the men.

Freshman Morris was a bright spot for the
men, placing third in his first ever collegiate
8K. Lehman said that the freshman “ran
tough” and that his performance was “good
to see.” Wheless also ran well as he continues
him comeback from multiple knee surgeries
during his collegiate career. Wheless had not
run a race since his freshman year, and he set
his personal best by 1:29 at the Lehigh race.

As was the case with the women, the com-

“There’s no question that
we need to get faster in
order to be competitive in
the conference champion-
ships.”

petition in the men’s meet was formidable.
Andrew described the teams as “extremely
high level [competition],” and Mercadante
added, “There were a lot of teams at Lehigh
that are top teams in the nation.” Baker said
that, despite the 20th place finish,““The meet

was a step in the right direction.”

Overall, Baker said, “The race highlighted
some areas that require a little work...There’s
no question that we need to get faster in order
to be competitive in the conference champi-
onships, but we all know that, and we’ ve got
time to get there.” Mercadante said, “We still
need to work harder at staying together early
in the race.” ‘

Both cross country teams continue their
seasons on Saturday, Oct. 9th. in Greenville,
S.C. at the Furman Invitational.

‘Women’s Soccer beats Elon,

By MicHaeL TELLIS
Staff Writer

It was a tale of two very different games

~ this week for the women’s soccer team, as the

Wildcats traveled to 1-6 Elon before playing

host to national power Duke this past week-
end.

The ’Cats unbeaten run in the SoCon con-
tinued as they beat Elon 1-0 on Wednesday.
Jenny Soldano’s ’06 first goal of the season
less than five minutes into the match turned
out to be the decisive score, as neither team
was able to generate any offense the rest of
the way.

After a relatively quiet first half with just
two shots on goal, Davidson created a num-
ber of opportunities in the second half, but they
were unable to convert any of those chances
into scores. Kara Koehrn ’06, in particular,
impressed with five shots on goal in the sec-
ond period.

Said head coach Greg Ashton, “‘This was a
very tough game. Both teams wanted to win
really badly. We were lucky to score first.

Though we didn’t create too‘many chances in.

the first half, we played very well in the sec-
ond. This also was the best performance by
our. defense this season.”

The ’Cats splendid run in the SoCon so far

this season has already galvanized the team.
Says Cameron Hardesty ’07, “We are very
positive about the SoCon this year. We feel
like we can compete with any team in the con-
ference and get a win. It feels great to have an
unbeaten record and we are working very hard
to maintain it.”

The ’Cats’ good fortune in the SoCon so
far has not made then complacent either.
Freshman Kristen Koehrn ’08 says “Being
satisfied with the two wins that we have as of
now is a ticket to disaster. Taking the season
game by game is how we have got to this point
and that is the intended strategy for the rest of
the season.”

Davidson then played 18th ranked Duke of
the Atlantic Coast Conference on Friday, and
the Wildcats were unable to continue their
winning ways as they lost 8-0. Goalkeeper
Sarah Hobart ’05 put on a great performance
in the first half to deny Duke several scoring
opportunities and keep the game scoreless for
the first 33 minutes. A disappointing defen-
sive display in the second half, however, led
to an offensive explosion by the Blue Devils.
The ’Cats were unable to recover after con-
ceding four goals in the first seven minutes of
the second half after being down only 1-0 at
intermission. :

Said Ashton, “Duke’is the best team that

Staff Writer

Volleyball split their two Homecoming
matches over the weekend, trouncing the Cita-
del three games to none and then losing 3-1 to
College of Charleston.

The Citadel match, after a slow beginning
with several errors for Davidson, went entirely
the Wildcats’ way. After the offense struggled
in game one, the Wildcats came alive in their
best offensive performance of the season. For
the game, the Wildcats notched a season-high
.312 attack percentage.

Erin Balak ’06 and Katie Pierucci ’08 led
the team with 14 kills each, and Balak tallied
a career-high .591 attack percentage. Setter
Jenna Dykstra ’07 notched 41 assists, and Tam
Gallen ’05 led the way on defense with 19
digs. In total five Wildcats had at least 5 digs
to hold the Bulldogs to a .090 percentage on
offense.

The second match of the weekend against
Charleston was a far more evenly matched
contest. Said Courtney Cron ’08, “The match
was a huge step ahead for the team. Outside
of closing a few of the games after significant
leads, we definitely showed that we can com-
pete for the top spots in the SoCon.” The 3-1
score was deceiving, as the Wildcats had nu-

loses to Duke

we have played all season. We managed to
hold them off in the first half to 1-0, but in the
second half they showed us what they were
really made of. Also, Wednesday’s hard-won
battle with Elon caught up with us.”

The team believes that they have learned
some valuable lessons from the game, and are
looking to work on the glitches that were ex-
posed by the Blue Devils. Says Hardesty, “The
one thing that we took away from the game is

‘to think about replicating what we did well,
like our performance in the first half.” Accord-
ing to Koehrn, “With a breakdown of about
eight minutes, we lost the game. We learned a
valuable lesson that every minute counts.”

Davidson next plays UNC Ashville on
Wednesday in their final non-conference game
of the season. The game will be played at the
new Alumni stadium. Says Ashton about the
game, “We are really excited about playing
on the new stadium. I believe that the team
will rebound and come out even stronger.”

The ’Cats will then host Chattanooga on
Friday in their third conference game of the
season, and will be hoping to continue their
unbeaten run in SoCon play. In Ashton’s
words, “Chattanooga is a great team in the
conference. They are on a winning streak and
it will be a great game. We will hope to do
well.”

Photo by Dorsett Cla

The volleyball team may be turning the corner on a losing season.

Volleyball beats SoCon foe
Citadel, loses to Charleston

By NATHAN BRADSHAW

merous chances to pick up their second SoCon
win of the season against the Cougars.

With Davidson leading late in the first game,
Charleston delivered nine unanswered points
to claim the lead and the victory. The second
game was a thriller that ended 35-33 in favor
of the ’Cats, riding on a block by freshmen
Lindsey Woeste ’08 and Katie Pierucci ’08.

Davidson was on the way to another game
win in the third frame after coming from be-
hind to lead 28-25, but the Cougars came back
yet again to win the game 33-31. The Cou-
gars held Davidson to only 23 points in the
decisive fourth game for the 3-1 win.

Statistically, Dykstra put up an exceptional
52 assists, Liz Williamson ’07 led the offense
on 18 kills, with Pierucci right behind at 15,
and Gallen paced the defense with 29 digs.
The Wildcat defense was “phenomenal,” ac-
cording to Cron. The team recorded 90 digs
on the match, holding the Cougars to a .194
percentage. .

“As a small team, our defense is what will
get us through the tough matches,” said Cron.
“The hope is to come out strong in these next
few matches like we did against College of
Charleston...We are going to make an impact
in conference play.” The ’Cats go up against
conference opponent ETSU on Thursday and
travel to Chattanooga on Sunday.

from Connolly, page 12

these other college games most Saturdays and
see kids bouncing of the stadium walls and
hope once—just once—we can get that kind
of atmosphere at Davidson. I'd say Saturday’s
atmosphere was roughly equivalent to a JV
game at West Caanan High—not bad consid-
ering the library was standing-room-only.

Don’t get me wrong; that whole picnic-in-
the-park environment is part of what makes
Davidson great, but we’re only in college
once. Let’s go for that I-want-to-get-on-TV-
and-embarrass-myself attitude.

The festivities continued well into the night,
of course, with a veritable Who’s Who of re-
cent Davidson graduates packing the
Brickhouse. It was a little frustrating, how-
ever, when several alumnae commented on
how “grown up” I was. Gee, thanks. Now that
you’ve completely squashed my ego, why
don’t you just go ahead and kick my dog and
spray-paint my car.

You know it was a good day, though, when
you wake up the next morning happy that you
still have your wallet and cell-phone, but sad
knowing what happened the day before only
occurs once, maybe twice,.a semester. We have
a couple more home games left, and I hope to
see many of those “backpackers” along with
the rest of you out there. So, come on, let’s try
to make “the 12th man” not merely the atten-
dance but an actual presence.
