_ THe DAvVIDSONIAN

NEws

First Years head off-
campus for parties

By Liz BARRY
Staff Writer

College policy restricts first years from at-
tending parties at Martin and Patterson Court
before First Night Down.

However, the line of permissibility becomes
blurred when it comes to freshmen attending
off-campus parties.

According to the Patterson Court Council
Bylaws, “Upperclassmen are not permitted to
invite first year students to off-campus func-
tions until after First Night Down.”

The wording of the by-law sparks confusion
because rather than explicitly barring freshman
from attending off-campus parties, it only ad-
dresses the role of upperclassmen in inviting

“It’s a little ridiculous to restrict
freshmen from attending off-campus
parties as a means of prevening early
recruitment.”

-Wally Wiggins '07

them there.

Anonymous sophomore asserts that many
upperclassmen, including those associated with
Patterson Court organizations, are either un-
aware of or choose to ignore this policy.

“Whether direct or indirect, invitations are
happening and freshmen are coming to off-
campus parties,” he said.

The reasoning behind this policy is two-fold,
said Director of Residence Life and Associate
Dean of Students Leslie Marsicano. First, hav-
ing freshmen at off-campus parties inevitably
leads to early recruitment for fraternity and eat-

ing-house members, giving certain organiza-
tions an advantage. .
Wally Wiggins ’07 argued that early recruit-
ment is inevitable. He says that as soon as fresh-
man step on campus they will have interaction
with upperclassmen affiliated with Patterson

- Court organizations through classes, sports

teams, and other campus activities.

“{ think it’s alittle ridiculous to restrict fresh-
men from attending off-campus parties as a
means of preventing early recruitment. Recruit-
ment starts as soon as the kids get to school. It’s
unavoidable,” Wiggins said. ~ _

Furthermore, allowing first years to attend
off-campus parties during the first few weeks
of school may pose a safety risk because they
lack the support network that on-campus par-
ties provide.

“You as a freshman are putting yourself at

much more risk if you go to an off-campus
party,” said Patterson Court Advisor Joy
Hamm.

During orientation, first years receive infor-
mation about First Night Down policies from
their hall counselors, Director of Public Safety
and Police Fountain Walker, and other sources
in order to avoid confusion.

Walker said that the First Night Down poli-
cies should not discourage healthy interaction
between freshman and upperclassmen.

Walker added that, contrary to common mis-
conception; first years are allowed to visit up-
perclassmen friends who live on Martin Court
and off-campus, as long as the visit is not dur-
ing a party.

Hamm acknowledged the vague nature of
this by-law and said that it and other laws may
be looked at by the Patterson Court Council for
further clarification

- \

CASES, COFFEE HOUSES & ROASTERY

Bring your Davidson ID
and receive
a FREE Port City Java Iced
or Brewed Coffee
for the month of September

Pastries * Muffins
° Bagels

Free Wireless Internet for All Costomen

We're open: Mon-Fri 6 a.m., Weekends 7 a.m.
Jp! 9930 West Catawba Ave., Cornelius
Near McAlister's Oet - Ext 28, off 1-77

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 2004 3

Students watch cable television in their room. .

College gets new cable provider

By Lauren Law

Staff Writer

The college has signed a five-year contract
with Campus Televideo, which replaces
Adelphia as Davidson’s new cable television
provider.

Although the cable in dorm rooms was ap-
proved in order to enhance the standard of
residence life, the decision continues to be a
source of dissent and debate among students,

’ faculty, and staff.

The debate came to fruition this past Janu-
ary after the Committee on Campus and Reli-
gious Life, headed by Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, passed the proposal due to com-
plaints from minority and female students that

majority and male students were dominating
show selection in the lounges and the Union.
Hall lounges were also becoming additional
housing for the Freshmen class. Jack Hubbard
‘06, President of the Junior class, also lobbied
heavily for cable through SGA.

Some members of the community are still
concerned, however.

Shandley said, “I still have some concerns
about [the impact on the community], and |
hope I am wrong...One of the joys of being at
Davidson is the community, students interact-
ing with each other. If that breaks down, then
[the decision] will have hurt this place.”

Some students expressed dissatisfaction with
the future payment policy as well.

see Cable, page 5

Ranking, from page 1

The gap in finances stems largely from
Davidson’s endowment of $330 million, which
lags behind other top schools. Fourth-ranked
Wellesley enrolls 2,300 students and holds an
endowment exceeding one billion dollars.

“We’re playing with the big boys,” says
Shandley. ;

The faculty and administration, while excited
by Davidson’s rank, prefer to emphasize the
work that won the recognition.

“T personally feel that external reviews af-
firm the strength of acollege,” says Ross, “but
we take more pride in what we’re doing than
being recognized.

Professors agree.

“Personally, I like being able to teach small
classes and work with students on individual
research projects,” says Psychology professor
Greta Munger. “The rankings capture some of
that, but not everything.”

U.S. News is the premiere college ranking
system, relying primarily on statistical data
such as graduation rates and SAT scores.

“To the extent that you can measure quality,
they’re accurate,” says Linda LeFauve, amem-
ber of Davidson’s Institutional Research De-
partment, “U.S. News verifies information ex-
tremely well.”

Still, the U.S. News ranking system has its
limitations. Its emphasis on academic reputa-
tion allows for some subjectivity. Also, rank-
ing schools for overall quality goes against the
multidimensional college experience.

“A particular college might be the best choice
for one student, but another college might be a
better match for a different student,” says
Chemistry professor Felix Carroll.

The sum-total rankings fail to segregate the
separate departments within each school, along
with other factors affecting college life. Every
school has a profile that might include particu-
larly strong or weak departments.

“Places that don’t rank have strengths, and
places that do rank have stengths,” says Reg-
istrar Hansford Epes.

While the ranking system has its limitations,
the positive publicity can only help the school.

“Many of us share a skepticism about the
rankings but like to see Davidson in a high
place,” says English professor and Davidson
graduate Randy Ingram. “That high place puts

us ina national, rather than regional, context.”

“T try not to think about whether I could be
admitted to Davidson nowadays,” he adds.°

“Many students will use the ‘rankings’ to
guide them in their college searches,” says Vice
President and Dean of Admission & Financial
Aid Nancy Cable, speaking on all college rank-
ing systems. “Being among the most highly-
respected, academically-vigorous, and nation-
ally-recognized colleges and universities is a
position that helps very able future
Davidsonians identify us as a high quality
choice that they ought consider.”

Other experts agree on the importance of
rankings.

“Students generally have an impression of
where to look before the rankings, but U.S.
News helps them narrow down potential
schools,” says LeFauve.

“More than anything it gives confirmation
to people who have already made up their
mind,” says President Bobby Vagt.

Not all students, however, place equal im-
portance on rankings. Davidson’s top-ten rank
had varying impact on current freshmen’s de-
cision to commit.

“I was aware [of the ranking] and it’s obvi-
ously good,” says Mike Nevi ’08, “but I knew
Davidson was a good school from other
sources.”

“It’s a source of pride,” according to Nick
Skipper ’08. ’““You can say you go to the num-
ber-seven school.”

Davidson’s rank in the top ten places it among
the nation’s elite liberal arts colleges. Within
the faculty and administration, there is little
preoccupation about moving up ordowna spot
or two.

“It’s not a rat race,” says Dr. Epes.

The greatest beneficiaries of the US News
ranking may very well be students currently
enrolled at Davidson.

“Recognition adds to student’s education
while they are here and it certainly adds to their
pride,” says Dean Shandley. “It also helps us
get Davidson’s name out there to employers,
graduate schools and professional schools.”

No one looks to benefit more than current
seniors.

“T don’t follow rankings too closely,” says
Trenita Brookshire” ‘0S, “‘but hopefully it will
help me get a job.”
