4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

WEDNESDAY, OcTOBER 6, 2004 |

‘Pickin’ Parlor’ attracts —
bluegrass lovers of all ages

By ADAM MarTIN
News Editor

A little over 20 years ago, Leonard Bolick
and his friends began gathering weekly in the
shed behind his home to play bluegrass music.

This shed, known to some as the “Pickin’
Parlor,” has since remained a regular retreat
and a point of intimate intersection for-local
bluegrass lovers, young and old, including
several Davidson students and Davidson Physi-
cal Plant employee Jimmy Freeze.

“Leonard used to come sit out here with his
fiddle and play all day,” said Jimmy.

“T guess I’ ve been coming out here for about
ten years.”

One fall day in 2002, Jimmy, a Davidson
employee of 24 years, went to cut the lock off
a student’s bike and found Durham Barnes ’04
outside, picking his guitar.

“Jimmy asked if I wanted to go and play at
this guy’s shed in Mooresville where he goes
every Friday,” said Durham.“So I did. And I
took some friends.”

For the past two years, Durham and other

students have regularly attended either to play
or just to listen to the melodies nostalgic for
the freedom and hardship of mountain life.

Durham described the shed in a recent piece
for his non-fiction prose class. He describes
the shed’s place in a Davidson week as a “‘heav-
enly refuge that emerges every Friday night
from the chaos and monotony of life.”

The group typically starts gathering around
7 p.m. and plays until around 10:30 p.m. The
musicians are mostly older men.

“The youngest men’s ages seem to range
from 50 to 100,” wrote Durham.

Ben Nelson ’05 and Jamie Ferguson ’06 often
add a banjo and fiddle, respectively, to the 6-
10 other instruments played by various older
men in the instrumentalist’s circle. After each
song, the musicians chat and joke until some-
one starts playing another tune. The rest pick
up the song without any reference to sheets of
music or written lyrics.

Jimmy plays the acoustic, standing bass and

sings backup tenor.

Wooden rocking chairs, white plastic lawn
chairs, and angular, brown vinyl school bus
seats line the walls, providing resting spots for
Jamie Shelton ’05, Andrea Applebee ’06, and

Chris Knowles ’05 who regularly go to listen.’

Andrea said her favorite parts of the night
are the “tuning sounds of the music circle be-
tween songs and the aura of sweet tea, fret-
flexed fingers, and a tune.”

The musician’s wives and the wives’ lady
friends come out and listen too. They sit on one
of the benches, do crossword puzzles, and dis-
tribute sweet tea to all during intermissions.
Sometimes whole families and other friends
come for the social ritual.

“Old couples rock and hold hands like high
school sweethearts,” wrote Durham.

“I’ve been here before when there’s been
about 40-50 people here, and people are stand-
ing because there are no more seats,” said
Jimmy.

Jimmy runs Davidson’s boiler room, which
provides hot water to the entire campus. He
also is the general mechanic, “the college fix-
it man” as he puts it. He cuts bike locks, door-
knobs, grandfather clocks, and fixes “anything
nobody else can fix.”

Jimmy’s friendship with Durham, Ben and
other students extends beyond Friday’s musi-
cal episodes.

“Jimmy let me live for free in a trailer on his
property the summer I worked forthe Davidson
Physical Plant. We rode to and from work to-
gether many mornings that summer. He opened
his house to me and eagerly shared his vast
knowledge about traditional living skills (horse
power, farming) with me.”

Others have made molasses at Jimmy’s home
and had conversations around campus.

Jimmy also has played in several local blue-
grass bands, performing at barbeques and par-
ties, though his group recently disbanded.

Though the gathering’s founder Leonard
Bolick died in 1998, his son Paul and wife,
Connie, still host the gathering in the same
concrete shed.

Grocery, from page 2°

The construction of the Alvarez Student
Union, which houses a full-service post office
and cafe, “closed the last bridge” between the
town and the college, he said.

Both Woods and Harris expressed a wish that
the new commercial center will provide a place
for members of the town and college to inter-
act.

“We would certainly want to attract students
as customers,” said Woods. “Town folks re-
ally like to see students mingling in the com-
munity. Thecollege presence here, beyond that
beautiful park-like campus, creates a lot of

energy and life that makes Davidson such an
attractive community.”

The town council had a few reservations
about the new building plans, including “the
already-approved concentration of residential
and commercial plans in the area, the projected
increases in traffic congestion and the effect
this small niche of retail development would
have on our downtown business economy,”
said Woods.

Woods hopes that “the developer is success-
ful in developing a contract with a high quality

grocery store operation very soon. With this .

‘anchor’ in place, construction could begin that
might be completed in nine months or so.”

4

4

\ GRILLED CHEESE -

a

VEGGIE MELT = ; VEGGIE BURGER — VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP - VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

Plas: FRESH SQUEEZED ORANGE JUICE ~
~ Hone HADE DRANGEADE. LEMONADE AND LIMEADE a

Bet. you ‘didn't “think, of US
a fer veretarian fare!——

— fou S MAN. St. Davinson-NC_ |

‘4 yo

f

VEGETABLE SOUP /
Ws aA

Eat-in Take-out

896-7743
Sat-Thur'8-8 Fri 8-9

Debates, from page 1

during the debate. He felt Kerry’s performance
might drive some liberal voters toward Ralph
Nader.

“Kerry came across as more conservative and
cutthroat than I had ever seen him before,” he
said. “Kerry didn’t turn anyone away from
Bush, he just turned people away from him-
self.”

Young Democrats Co-President Chris Burks
’07 disagreed.

“John Kerry won the debate in decisive fash-
ion,” said Burks. “Every single news organi-
zation agrees with this assessment.”

Burks emphasized that the debates reflected
Kerry’s overall momentum in the race.

“The debate validated that John Kerry has
the positive momentum in this race,” said
Burks.

Jesse Johnson ’07 felt Kerry won the debate,
but doubted its significance in the overall race.

“J think most people have made up their
minds,” said Johnson,“‘but [Kerry] certainly
strengthened my opinion towards him.”

During the panel discussion, the professors
addressed matters ranging from foreign policy
to the candidates’ performances.

“Style went to Karry, but substance
went to Bush...Kerry didn’t turn
anyone away from Bush, he just
turned people away from himself.’”
--Joseph Adams ’06, College Re-
publicans President

“J think the debate was notable for a lot of
things left out,” said Kumar, “It was largely a
rehash of things we’ ve been hearing.”

Kumar described the purpose of omitting
some details as an appeal to the average viewer.

“Not everyone has a Ph.D. in each area of
diplomacy,” said Kumar.

Stell echoed similar thoughts about the
debate’s content.

“In terms of substance, the questions were
pretty boring,” he said.

The performance of the candidates was an
early topic of choice. The professors generally
found Kerry to present himself better than his
opponent.”

“Kerry won the debate in, decisive
fashion...The debate validated that
John Kerry has the positve momen-
tum in the race.”

--Chris Burks ’07, Young Demo-
crats Co-President

“In terms of performances, Kerry performed
better than Bush,” said Stell. “Bush seemed
angry with Kerry at times.”

Dr. Levering found Kerry to exceed his ex-
pectations.

“Senator Kerry came across much better than
I expected,” he said. “I think Kerry used much
better language than Bush.”

Kumar described Bush as attempting to
maintain his image as a firm leader.

“Bush attempted to show that he’s resolute,
he’s aiming at a fixed point, and he’s not going
to be wavered,” he said.

The panel discussion was not limited to
matters directly addressed in the debate. The
panel discussed issues such as farm subsidies,
soft force diplomacy, and the media’s depic-
tion of the debate.

“T think it will be interesting to see how the
media portrays it,” said Stell. “It’s in their best
interests to portray this as a horse race to the
finish.”

The panel members occasionally disagreed
on specific issues but remained relatively con- .
trolled. The moderator, Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, never had to intercede.

The Deadline for the George L. Abernathy
Foundation is November 12th!

Abernathy Funds are available to students
in the following three categories:

1) Independent student research,
either in the US or abroad

2) Cross-cultural study opportunites for
students during the academic year

3) Collaborative research by students &
faculty. The student must have a
clearly defined independent role in
the research.

At the request of the donor, applications
are limited to projects that fall within
the humanities and social sciences.

FYI: LAST YEAR THE ABERNATHY ENDOWMENT
SUPPORTED PROJECTS WITH GRANTS UP TO $3,500;
- THE AVERAGE AWARD WAS ABOUT $2,000.

Application forms are available >
in the Office of the Vice President
for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283).
Completed application forms are due back
in this office before 5:00 p.m. on
Friday, November 12,
The announcement of awards will occur on
or before Jan.15,

2004.

2005

