2 ‘Tue DavmsoniAN

News

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2004

Sewage, from page 1

cern that granting improved lottery numbers
to the base-Rich residents might challenge the
fairness of the current system. .

“RLO has not adjusted lottery numbers in
any case except when directed to do so by the
Honor Council or Judicial Board as a sanction
for one of their cases,” said Marsicano.
“RLO’s position has been that the fairest thing
to do is to preserve the random number sys-
tem.”

“That’s ridiculous...I don’t see
a correlation between an
actident and lottery numbers.
Should the people who fell'out
of their beds get better lottery
numbers too?” ,

'—Erik Knelson ’07

Altering the number system based on hard-
ship, said Marsicano, would raise the question
of what exactly warrants an adjustment to the
lottery system.

“Some other students in basement Sentelle
and Duke had mold problems at the the begin-
ning of the year, Watts people had bats, some
students were forced off campus into College-
owned houses and some first-year students
have had difficulties with the roommates RLO
assigned them,” said Marsicano. “I imagine
these people would like a lottery number ad-
justment as well.”

“The problem with any lottery adjustment
system is determining who gets to decide what

constitutes a ‘hardship.’”

Reactions to the base-Rich residents’ request
have been mixed.

Some students have reacted negatively to-
ward this idea of lottery number compensation:

“That’s ridiculous. Does the City Parks and
Rec. department compensate citizens whose
sewage pipes burst?,” said Erik Knelson ’07.
“T don’t see a correlation between an accident
and lottery numbers. Should the people who
fell out of their beds get better lottery numbers

too?”

Other students were more supportive of the
idea.

“They should definitely be compensated in
some way,” said Jesse Johnson ’07. “If not
through better lottery numbers, then at least
with areduction inroom and board expenses.”

The school’s response has left Ippolito skep-
tical about his chances of receiving compen-
sation such as improved lottery numbers.

“It was nice of them to set up a meeting, but
itjust wasn’t very constructive,” said Ippolito.

Ippolito felt the meeting was arranged pri-

marily to “placate” the residents.

Reassuringly, the overflow of sewage
stemmed from misuse of a cotton towel and a
toilet rather than a problem with the Richardson
drainage system.

“T think we have finally got the drainage
system working but I guess there is always the
possibility of some yahoo doing something he
shouldn’t,” said Marsicano.

Marsicano also reminds residents with hous-
ing-related problems to fill out work order
forms.

“We want it to be right for the students, but
the only way we’fe going to know about it is if
they fill out a work order,” she said.

Campus Police Blotter

12/1

Sophomore Apartments

Alcohol Find

Diversity issues becoming
increasingly more important

By Liz Basar
Senior Staff Writer

-AnAfrican American student feels pressured
to give the popular “black” opinion instead of
his own during class discussion.

An openly gay student experiences hostile
glares at a Patterson Court party.“

Arecentalum expresses frustration when she
cannot return to Davidson for homecoming
because it conflicts with Yom Kippur.

“Diversity” is a buzzword that often perme-
ates discussion about campus life.

As the minority population increases and
Davidson expands its demographic scope, stu-
dents face important questions regarding the
nature of diversity at Davidson and how it af-
fects our community.

“T think as we become more diverse, we need
to move our focus from getting students here
to inclusivity,” said Jill Williams, Assistant
Director for the Theological Exploration of Vo-
cation.

According to the Statement of Purpose,
Davidson’s educational mission is “‘to teach all
students to think clearly, to make relevant and
valid judgments, to discriminate among val-
ues, and to communicate freely with others in
the realm of ideas.”

Because a diverse student body is integral to
achieving this mission, admission officers have
increased efforts to recruit qualified applicants
from minority groups that are under-repre-
sented on campus.

“Preparing humane students for future lead-
ership is not possible unless our learning envi-
ronment reflects different areas of thought,
experience and culture,” said Wookie Payne,
Director of Multicultural Recruitment.

To foster a community that embraces diver-
sity, students must make a concerted effort to

“Prospective students always ask about di-
versity,” Payne said “I want to be sure that they
will take an active part in diverse dialogues
and experiences once they are here and are not
just asking the question because it seems like
the right question to ask.”

Arecent survey reveals student opinion con-
cerning the relationship between diversity and
the educational experience. ‘

The survey addressed diversity in terms of
geography, race and ethnicity, religion, socio-
economic background and political ideology.

Students felt strongest about diversity of
political and ideological perspectives, with 67
percent of students rating it “very important”
to providing the best educational experience
possible.

In regards to racial and ethnic diversity, 59
percent of all students rated it as “very impor-
tant.”

Further breakdown of the results reflected a
significant disparity between the opinions of
minority and white students.

Seventy nine percent of minority and inter-
national students ranked racial and ethnic di-
versity as “very important” compared to only
57 percent of white students.

Phia Salter ’05 suggests that the disparity-
may stem from the tendency for white students
to underestimate the importance of racial iden-
tity for those in the racial minority.

Because “white culture” dominates many
aspects of American society, white students
may not fully recognize the importance of their
own racial identities.

Although it’s important to recognize and
embrace Davidson’s distinguishing character-
istics, Trenita Brookshire ’05 said that placing
the school on too much of a pedestal can lead
to disillusionment when the ideals donot match
the realities.

While conducting a walkthrough of Knox Dormitory, officer observed an open door.
Officer noticed the room was not occupied, but observed many bottles of alcohol, includ-
ing one bottle of Jim Beam 1/8 full, one empty bottle of Honey Brown flavored lager beer,
one mini bottle of Captain Morgan’s Parrot Bay, and two flask containers with a liquid
substance that had the smell of spirituous liquor. All alcohol was taken to the police depart-
ment for disposal.

12/3 Martin Court Fire Alarm
Around 7:08 p.m., officer responded to a fire alarm at Ryburn Dormitory. Upon arrival,
officer spoke with a fireman who advised him that someone had burned food and all was

good.

12/4 Patterson Court Vandalism

At | p.m., investigating officer met with reporting person in reference to damage to
property at Connor eating house. Reporting person stated that sometime between Decem-
ber 3 and 4, some unknown person had broken a window in the building. Reporting person

stated that she thought the window may have been broken with an apple.

12/5 Sophomore Apartments Underage Drinking

Reporting officer was conducting a walkthrough of Akers Dormitory and observed a
student standing in an open doorway with a can of beer. The student appeared intoxicated.
He was unsteady on his feet, had an odor of alcohol about his person, and had slurred
speech. After the student produced his CatCard, officer determined the student was under-
age. ;

12/5 Sentelle Dormitory Mysterious Figure

Ataround 4:48 a.m., reporting officer responded to acall stating an unknown person was
in a room in Sentelle. Officer spoke to the room’s residents, who stated that an unknown
subject was in their room. The residents stated that they were asleep when they heard the
door shut. They said they woke up and saw someone who was standing over the bed then
left the room. Officer checked the other halls of Sentelle, but did not observe other suspi-
cious activity.

12/6 Tomlinson Dormitory Underage Drinking
At around 4:57 p.m., reporting officer conducted a foot patrol of Tomlinson Dormitory.

Reporting officer found an underage student in possession of alcohol. Reporting officer

called the area coordinator and advised him of the situation. Reporting officer then con-

fiscated the alcohol and destroyed it.

interact with students from.a wide range of
backgrounds and experiences in and out of the
classroom.

“T think that it’s important to acknowledge

see Diversity, page 5

80

70
60
50
| Not Important
40 + Somewhat Important
| Very Important
30

20

10 f=

Racial Diversity Socio-economic
Diversity

Religious
Diversity

Political
Diversity

Geographic
Diversity

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com

10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm

