Movie Review

By STEVE KALISKI

IVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 1, 2004

Sharks, Camera, Action!- bad luck or reality?

Senior Staff Writer

Michael Moore would love “Open Water.”
Not only would he admire director Chris
Kentis’s grimy attempt at joining the “Fahren-
heit 9/11” mastermind’s fellowship of make-
believe documentary filmmakers, but Moore
would also praise Kentis’s stunning ability to
make audiences furious at inconveniently stu-
pid people. After seeing “Open Water,” you
will want to rise up in revolution against all of
the inane dive instructors in the world who leave
their clients lost at sea.

OK, so it may be a bit of a stretch to call
“Open Water” an issue-oriented movie. But
while Bush and Kerry would be at a loss of
words to describe it, [can tell you that this latest
entry into the minimalist digital video move-
mentis an incredibly unpleasant, slightly chill-
ing, and utterly convincing mixed-bag.

Propelled forth by a seemingly innocuous

Open Water

Directed and Written by:
George Armitage

Starring: Blanchard Ryan
and Daniel Travis

Runtime: 79 minutes

Rating: @ @ 1/2

case of human carelessness, this story of two
married scuba divers stranded in the ocean
doesn’t frighten nearly as muchas it provokes.

‘The sharks that eventually terrorize this tragi-

cally unfortunate couple appear and disappear
in brief flashes, but the despairing mood cast
by the absolutely avoidable helplessness of the
divers lingers well past the conclusion.

Regardless, “Open Water,” clocking in at a
hassle-free 79 minutes, offers its viewers
enough cinematic novelties to justify the price
of admission.

Susan and Daniel (played by good sports
Blanchard Ryan and Daniel Travis) desperately
need a vacation. The stress of their respective
jobs has plunged their marriage into monotony,
and a spontaneous island vacation might be the
only cure. :

However, when a seriously shoddy roll call
aboard a diving boat incorrectly assumes that
Susan and Daniel are present and accounted
for, the two find themselves drifting aimlessly
in the sea without a vessel in sight.

The remainder of the film focuses ‘less on
what happens to the couple than what doesn’t
happen to them. The drama of “Open Water”
relies heavily upon the dread of isolation that
Susan and Daniel must face with each increas-
ingly desperate hour. When the pesky sharks
finally arrive, the two naive travelers realize
that their worst diving nightmare might be
coming true.

Is “Open Water” scary? The answer to that
question depends on how much you need to
see in order to be frightened. If you couldn’t
sleep for weeks following “The Blair Witch
Project,” then the almost implied thrills of this
very, very realistic movie might appeal to you.

Then again, “Blair Witch” benefited from
an enthralling mythology and an intriguing su-
pernatural element. In““Open Water,” however,
what you see is what you get. If you, like me,
will never have the slightest incentive to scuba
dive, this movie may simply feel like someone
else’s bad luck.

The one indisputable truth that does emerge
from“Open Water” is that Kentis and his ac-
tors have crafted a stunningly believable
movie. Ryan and Travis exchange dialogue that
most Hollywood screenwriters would dismiss
as bland but that works wonders for the
couple’s chemistry here. You never doubt for
one moment that Susan and Daniel love each
other, hate their jobs, and are unable to com-

This shark is not camera shy in “Open Water.”

prehend the mess that they’ve inherited. In
terms of searching for a universal theme in a
film that appeals only to a specific demo-
graphic, Kentis captures that notion of “how
the hell could this happen?” with complete con-
fidence.

Calling “Open Water” a shark movie or a
creature feature only sets up an audience for
disappointment. These sharks do not have the
personified malevolence of the villains in the
“Jaws” franchise; here, they just act as they
naturally would around scrumptious, bobbing
fish bait. If “Open Water” casts a spell, it re-

to mention their anger at the fools who left them
floating in the middle of nowhere.

‘Jim Dine Prints’ reflect life through imagery, lost symbols

Jim Dine Prints: 1985-2002.

Creative type: Davidsonians in the arts

By AnpDy MartTIN

Arts & Living Editor

Minutes into a conversation over carne
asada at a hip Central Avenue Charlotte
taqueria it becomes readily apparent that in con-
versations with ‘Libertas’ editor Andrew Haupt
‘05 there are rarely pregnant pauses. _

“He comes froma large Catholic family and
he has a twin sister, so he always talks fast. He
had to work to get in a word edgewise at the
dinner table. And it’s also because he thinks
fast,” says longtime friend and Libertas sec-
tion editor Pat Duncan ‘05.

Duncan continues, obviously amused but

- affectionate, “He manages the creative process
at ‘Libertas’ by being ahead of the big loud
family that exists in staff meetings. He’s up
for anything; He’s a good sport. I mean, last
week when I knocked on his door at 3 a.m. and
asked if he wanted to go for a bike ride, he was
all for it. Two hours later we wound up on our
bikes in Mooresville.”

By Darry_ RATCLIFF
Staff Writer

Chain-saws, copper plates, power grinders,
homemade cookies, stunning young women,
and free libations. This Thursday past’s open-
ing of The Jim Dine Prints 1985-2002 at the
Belk Visual Arts Center’s in-house gallery had
it all.

Born in Cincinnati in 1935, Dine, a major
New York artist, is closely associated with the
development of Pop Art in the early 1960’s.

The current exhibition, in the VAC’s William

H. Every, Jr. and Edward M. Smith Galleries,
features thirty-eight of Dine’s finest prints from
the last twenty years.

Brad Thomas, gallery director and curator,
calls the show, “A very significant exhibition.
You see lots of repeated imagery indicative of

Being a good sport is sometimes required of
a senior who manages Davidson’s only stu-
dent-run magazine. ‘Libertas’ has been at-
tacked for frivolity and for profanity, facing

Andrew Haupt ’05
complaints from students, ere and admin-

istrators.

“T remember freshman year, ne was deliver-
ing issues and I was practically accosted by
most of the people I delivered it to. People were
telling me to stop leaving toilet paper outside
their door. Basically that they didn’t care for

his style as painter, draftsman, and printmaker.”
Dine’s prints grapple with many familiar
themes such as youth, desire, sexuality, long-
ing and mortality.

“A person who has made art
his life. He ts living and
relaying himself through

these images.”
-Brad Thomas

According to Thomas, this honesty is part of
what makes Dine’s work so memorable. “You
get a view into apersons life. A person who has
made arthis life. He is living and relaying him-
self through these images. He is showing us his
journey through mortality.”

Images recurrent in Dine’s work include the

the cut of our jib,” says senior correspondent -

and focus editor Jimmy Newlin ‘05.

Haupt responds to such criticism with what
amounts to a verbal shrug,

“People whocomplain obviously don’ tread
the entire magazine. We print some crap, but
usually it’s only because we’re working on a
deadline.”

The creative process behind the staff’s bi-
weekly product has often times seemed ex-
tremely obscure to many students—the maga-
zine has had such off-color and ambiguously
themed issues as “Brown,” “Pirates,” and

- “Fake Things.”

“We'll publish anything,” says Haupe, “This
one time a kid wrote a treatise on the nonexist-
ence of the moon and we put it in there any-
way.” Some students have gone so far as to
call,the publication inane, toothless, and
thoughtlessly liberal, although its slant has
shifted in recent semesters from an irreverent
and sometimes hysterical political reading of
campus events to a more playful one.

skull and skeletal figures representing mortal-
ity. Others, like his prints of Pinocchio, refer-
ence youth and desire. Dine’s headless female
figures, evocative of the Venus di Milo, repre-
sent sexuality and longing.

At the gallery opening it was clear that Jim
Dine was a Davidson hit. “I’ve never seen a
show like this. It is interesting how he is able
to transform objects in a unique and innovative
way,” said art history major Andrew Gib-
bons,’05.

Crowds included across-section of interested
students and visitors to campus, and, most
importantly, not just art people. ““Withso much
texture and color, it is an exhibit that even
people who don’t know much about art can
enjoy,” said Martelle Esposito ’08.

‘The Jim Dine Prints’ will be on display in
the Belk Visual Arts Center until October 6.

At the same time, the magazine provides one
of only afew opportunities for students to show-
case their writing, art, and design, sometimes
with impressive results. Within recent memory
‘Libertas’ was honored with a special award
given to college publications by “Wallpaper”
magazine. “We start with nothing but blank
pages,” quips Haupt, “It’s acreative endeavor.”

Haupt, asenior philosophy major anda math
minor, is nothing if not fair-minded and prag-
matic when it comes to managing the maga-
zine. “Outside of staff meetings, each section
editor acts as a sort of senior editor all to them-
selves,” he says with a furrowed brow, “I just
need to know that there are reasons for what
they do—if they are taking a risk I want there
to be a reason for that risk.” ~

Haupt is pensive and consistently thought-
ful when discussing the magazine. He pauses,
sighs, and scratches his head before finishing,
“T play devil’s advocate and make sure that a
reasonable person would understand. why we
print what we print.”
