THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS _

Davidson student teams up
with Tiger Woods in Pro-Am

Faris Al Mazrui ’07 poses with
teammate Tiger Woods in Dubai.

By BEN WHIGHAM
Staff Writer

Earlier this month in the Dubai Desert Clas-
sic Pro-Am, Davidson student and United
Arab Emirates National Team member Faris
Al Mazrui ’07 enjoyed a round of golf with
Tiger Woods.

The competition pairs off amateurs with
professionals and pits them against each other
over 18 holes of golf. Mazrui and his UAE
teammates were paired with Woods.

“It was a magical experience,” said Mazrui,
who remembers Woods as being “nice, out-
going, and friendly.”

Mazrui was surprised to find a much more

easy-going Tiger than what the TV cameras
had led him to expect.

“He looked very serene out on the course,”
recounted Mazrui. “He seemed very relaxed
and collected.”

Mazrui anticipated the world’s top- ranked
golfer to be much more competitive and in-

tense.

“[Woods was] quite the opposite to what I
see on TV where he seems to be competing
with the other players on tour,” he said.

Maztui cited Woods’ example as a testament
to the power of the calm and quiet to “‘over-
come the world.” Mazrui intends to apply this
philosophical lesson to future matches.

Perhaps in response to Woods’ presence, the
UAE team was on top of their game. With
Woods’ help, the group finished third in the
Pro-Am at a net -15. Woods finished at -2,
which was six strokes off his performance in
2001.

“We joked around with Tiger a lot,”
Mazrui. “He was very level-headed.”

“Whenever one of us would hit a good shot,
he would say ‘I wish I could hit it that good!’”
said Mazrui. “He never acted as if he was bet-
ter or more important than us.”

Despite Woods’ world-champion status,
Mazrui found him approachable. Talk strayed
into the academic arena, where Mazrui dis-
covered that Woods is still pursuing a degree
in Economics from Stanford.

Several days later, Woods took to the course
for the Dubai Desert Classic. Despite falling
off the leader board with a double bogey late
in the tournament, Woods gave the tournament
winner, Mark O’ Meara, a bear hug on the 18th
green.

said

Outdoor track season underway

By AustiIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

The track and field team made the long and
arduous journey south to the famed Irwin Belk
track at UNC-Charlotte to compete in the
famed UNCC “49er Classic.” Though one
might question how many gold-seekers made

. the pilgrimage to Charlotte during the famous
gold rush of ’49, several Davidson Wildcats’
efforts turned up figurative gold on Friday and
Saturday.

Since this was the first big track meet of the
outdoor season, most everyone ran or threw a
seasonal best. Nonetheless; several Davidson
performances were noteworthy.

Three Davidson sprinters entered in the 400-
meter hurdles, and each flew around the track
in a magnificent display of strength and agil-
ity. David Ritchie ’07, Cisco Morales ’07, and
Johannes Norling ’04 glided over the high
hurdles as they zoomed to times of 57.73,
59.67, and 60.26, respectively.

For the middle distance crew, the 1500-
meter dash was quite a fun race. Greg Scott
’04 and Nick Lehman ’05 ran in different heats
but had similar race strategies and the same
result. Both pulled away in the third lap and
out-sprinted several late-race challenges to win
their heats. Scott won with a time of 3:56.78,
while Lehman won in 4:02.05.

The women’s 1500 was a showdown be-
tween Ashley Griffith ’05 and Allie Martin ’06.
The two raced in the same heat and finished

less than 3 seconds apart. Martin took the early
lead and led the heat through three laps. A
couple of fast finishers passed her in the last
200 meters, but she was still the first Davidson
runner to finish. Martin’s time was 4:52.03,
and Griffith finished a few steps back with a
time of 4:54.86.

The men’s 5000-meter race was run under
the light of a waning moon and several mega-
watt stadium lights late Friday night. Several
Davidson harriers produced spectacular races
for the teeming masses that were exiting the
stadium after the sprint events were concluded
for the day. Jonathan Baker ’06 ran the fastest
time for the team, setting a PR of 15:03.60.
Ben Gaspar ’04 finished soon after, marking
his return from injury with a time of 15:16.22.

The women’s 3000 was the main race on
Saturday afternoon. Four Davidson runners
entered, but only one emerged victorious.
Laura Puckett ’04, Carissa Skrivanek ’06,
Ashley Griffith 05, and Sally Stanhope ’05
all raced for Davidson; however, it was

Skrivanek that emerged from the ensuing car-

nage as the victor with a time of 10:36.28.

Men’s head coach Gary Andrew was “lovin’
it.”

“This meet marked our first competitive
contest of the outdoor season, and the guys
responded well, producing several impressive
early season marks,” he commented. “Early
is the key word here, as there are still six weeks
before the conference championships. We
need to remain focused and build upon this
effort.”

from Baseball, page 16

Alex Entrekin ’06 paced the ‘Cats offen-
sively, driving in two runs and scoring two
more. Entrekin leads the team in batting aver-
age with a .352 batting average and 12 RBIs
while starting all 19 games behind the plate.

Before the Elon series, Davidson hosted Ivy
League power Yale, dropping a 4-1 decision
’ to the Bulldogs. One bright spot on the evening

occured when Sam Navarro ’05 tossed a fro-
zen rope from right field to cut down a Yale
runner at the plate.

Davidson returned to action today against
Radford at Wildcat/Park and will now travel
to Westerm Carolina for a three-game week-
end series before taking on N.C. State in Ra-
leigh next Wednesday. The next home game
for the ’Cats is on April 1 against Harvard.

“Bodybuilding takes a lot of time, and it’s
hard to do it consistently when you have so
many other things going’ on. Especially at
Davidson, where there’s so much work and

’ other activities, that kind of time commitment .

isn’t for everyone,” he says.

But this uber-cultured European commod-
ity connoisseur is quick to point out that fit-
ness is a whole ‘nother ballgame.

“Fitness is something that everyone should
engage in few sessions a week, and it’s very
beneficial. I think that a lot of people are in-

timidated to get started or fail to do it consis- .

tently enough to see results. It seems as
though there are a select group of students
that use the fitness facilities, and I would like

from Sideline, page 12

You don’t even have to do the reading every
day.” The NCAA is currently investigating this
class, as the recruit reported seeing “at least
two other guys wearing Davidson football
sweatshirts and one strong-looking guy with
a fade” in the class. One of the football play-
ers reportedly received an extension on a pa-
per because “he’d apparently been out for the
last two weeks with mono.”

The recruit then toured the campus with
fellow perspectives before being picked up by
his host and brought to dinner at Fuddruckers,
where they met several other hosts and re-
cruits. A claim that the host paid for the
recruit’s Fhe “Works” Burger and Sprite is also
being investigated:

After dinner, the host reportedly stopped at
a local Food Lion, where he purchased two
cases of “Beast,” an alcoholic beer that the
recruit found to be abundant on campus
throughout the weekend, with the chalked li-
cense. The recruit was then allowed to con-
sume “at least four” of these drinks in the
host’s room while the two played Madden,
then attended a party in a nearby dorm room.

The party allegedly had more of the “Beast,”
some of which was brought over by the host,
and three or four girls who were “wearing
pretty tight pants.” The host reportedly asked
one of the girls to flirt with his recruit, citing
a need to make the recruit “feel like he’d get
some if he came here.” The girl proceeded to
sit next to the recruit on a couch until she fin-
ished her beer and left with her friends for a
senior apartment.

The party lasted until about 2:00 a.m., with
the recruit “getting kind of drunk” before go-
ing to bed so he could wake up for an 8:00
a.m. meeting with the coaches. According to
one coach, “I knew there might be some funny
business going on when [the recruit] showed
up five minutes late and looked a little tired,
but I had no idea the extent to which things
had gotten out of hand the night before.”

The recruit met his host again at 5:00 p.m.
and was again treated to dinner, this time at a

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 24, 2004 . 13

dated cardio | equipment in the Union.”

Meanwhile, others on the scene have a few
problems with Davidson weightlifting.

Franz Pastorius °06 finds it difficult to lo-
cate adequate lifting facilities on campus.

“You're only other option [besides a Union
room without free weights] is the weight
room in Baker, and that place is pathetic,”
he says. “It’s small, ill-equipped, and
offentimes not open when it should be.”

Steve Sellers ’05 concurs, adding that the
Union facility just isn’t good enough for se-
rious lifters.

“It’s really easy to settle into going to the
Union to workout, but I found that doing so
really puts the brakes on getting much stron- ©
ger,” he says. “I’m not ragging on the Union,

see Albo, page 15

Pizza Inn. The host again paid for the recruit’s
meal.

Drinking resumed when the recruit returned
from dinner, this time with the host and some
other members of the football team teaching
their recruits how to play “Speed Quarters”
on the host’s wooden chest. The game report-
edly got the recruit “pretty drunk. I couldn’t
find my visor for about five minutes when we
were trying to leave.”

The group then went to the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity, where the recruit was reportedly
given beer “from the apartment” despite the
fraternity’s dry status. Here the recruit found
himself taking part in the events of “Ladies
Night,” as he reportedly jumped on the stage
during a performance (fraternity members
were putting on their own song and dance rou-
tines, some with sexual innuendo) and ripped
his shirt off in a drunken stupor.

The recruit then began dancing with a girl,
reportedly a “Delta bag,” who wore “a really
short skirt and tank top. She ran up to a bunch
of the players and hugged them, but they kept
pushing her back at me.”

The two then reportedly made out on the
dance floor for three songs, until two of the
girls’ friends came over and dragged her from
the party. The recruit tried to follow them out
but lost sight of them in the immense Ladies
Night crowd. The recruit was then brought
back by one of the host’s friends, as his host
was allegedly “running around screaming and
breaking things on campus.”

The events of the night nearly caused the
recruit to miss his morning flight home, as he
“would definitely have overslept if my dad
didn’t call my cell phone to wake me up.” The
recruit’s parents became aware of the events
of the weekend after smelling alcohol on their
son when they picked him up to drive to the
airport (“I forgot to change my shirt”), and
they proceeded to report it to authorities.

. The NCAA and Davidson College are in-
vestigating these allegations, which threaten
to discredit a Davidson athletics program that
has previously been cited as an ideal example
of moral and ethical recruiting procedures.
