THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

Goose jokes retired at ceremony

This past Thursday, in a ceremony tak-
ing place in the Duke Family Performance
Hall, all jokes having to do with Davidson
College’s infamous goose incident of 2003
were Officially retired from active use.

The “goose incident,” in which six
pledges of the now defunct Kappa Sigma
fraternity used golf clubs to beat a goose
to death, gained national notoriety for the
six, as well as the college. In short time,
the incident became part of the college
discourse, and soon after, many jokes
emerged having to do with what some
saw as the ridiculousness of the episode or
what others saw as an overreaction by the
media, college, and the United State judi-
cial system. :

Explained Martin Underwood ’03,
“During the heyday of the goose mania,
you couldn’t go more than eight minutes
without hearing a goose-related joke. It
was almost like a rule, when in doubt, just
make a goose beating joke. Even back
then, in the fading spring glory of my
Davidson career, the jokes got a little old.”

The move to retire the jokes stemmed
from what Troy Scranton ’06 described as
“A general tiredness of the goose jokes.”
Scranton continued, “I’ll be honest, I
never thought that the goose jokes were

Special In-Depth Report

that funny. But now, one and a half years
after the whole thing, it’s time to end
them. I mean, isn’t there anything else
people could joke about?”

Officially, the quest for retirement be-
gan at a September 3 SGA meeting, when
Sophomore Senator August Jackson
brought up his sentiments on the goose
issue. After a seventy minute delibera-
tion, the SGA voted to form a committee
to discuss possible actions, ranging from
a moratorium on goose jokes, to outright
retirement. When the committee pre-
sented their findings, on September 16,
they recommended that the SGA pursue
a policy of goose joke retirement. The bill
to retire the goose jokes was quickly rati-
fied, and the retirement ceremony was
scheduled for September 23.

Most students are relieved by the
move. Said Claire Wilson ’07, “I wasn’t
even here for the whole goose thing, It’s
all I heard about when I was a prospec-
tive. ‘At least it wasn’t a goose’ or ‘It’s not

~ a party until somebody kills a goose.’ It

just gets old after like two years.”
Many in the administration do agree

that the retirement is a good idea, but for .

a different rationale than the students’
reasons. Associate Dean of Students An-

thony Lepage said, “We should just forget
about the whole thing; it’s done. The
whole experience was embarrassing for
the college. The sooner it’s swept under
the rug, the better.”

Others are angry about the retirement.
Claimed Mike Wilton ’06, “The goose in-
cident is still hilarious! They beat a goose
with golf clubs! You can’t make up that
kind of stuff!”

Jess Hamilton ’05 alleged that “the ad-
ministration is clearly stealing some of the
students’ history in order to be more pre-
sentable. By forcing a retirement of the
goose incident, they rob from us our very
freedom to joke about things that are very
meaningful to each and every one of us.”

Still, some do not plan on observing the
retirement, as there is no punishment for
contravention. Said Craig Linson ’05,
“We're just going to keep on making goose
joke after goose joke. If they take that
away, how could we entertain? We got
nothing.”

Furthermore, according to some
sources, goose jokes are not the only jokes
to be retired, as recent discussions within
the SGA may allegedly lead to the retire-
ment of duffle bag jokes in the very near
future.

ee ee
9th Annual Voice Your Choice Food Show:
fi shining moment for Dining Services

the Food Show

Last Tuesday, I attended the 9" Annual
Voice Your Choice food show in the Vail
Commons. As a journalist, I was there to
inquire about and observe the potential
new delicacies to be added to the menu,
but as a student I was there to participate
in perhaps the best food-related event on
campus. When I came close to the Vail
Commons building, my excitement
reached its climax.

As I descended down the stairs I could
hear the mix of loud, thumping music and
the cries of joy echoing
upwards. I stepped off
the last step and the fes-
tive scene revealed itself.
My eyes beheld vendors
as far as the eye could
see, students waiting in
lines for samples, and
others crowding around
the tables to feast on their
spoils. A professional DJ
was playing hit songs and
telling hilarious jokes.
Everyone on campus
seemed to be there. I saw
professors, physical plant
staff, and even soccer
players enjoying the at-

‘mosphere. While I was
waiting in line to pay the

Our reporter, Jeffery Yeakel, samples the fare at-

measly four dollar
fee, I heard one stu-
dent with a smile
from ear to ear rush
by saying, “This is
like a dream.” And
perhaps it was a
dream. Prizes were
being distributed
left and right. Stu-
dents seemed to
have an extra skip
in their step. People
were happy.

If variety is the
spice of life, then
commons served up
a “five alarm” food
show. Local ven-
dors from all over
the greater Char-
lotte area brought
in the finest of their
freshly prepared products. Everything

_ was homemade and, in my opinion, deli-

cious. Even more difficult to believe was
that all this amazing food was all-you-
can-eat!

A local ice cream shop, Breyers, was
the first booth I visited: Eating dessert
first is not something I-usually do, but
that’s the beauty of these annual food
shows: they rip you away from your com-
fort zone of eating off the chef's table ev-
ery afternoon, and toss you headfirst into

an overwhelmingly diverse culinary expe-
rience. It’s not every day that you are able
to get ice cream in Commons!

Another important booth was the local
wing company, Dutch Quality. In my un-
derstanding, Commons will use the most
popular of their wings, either the
Garlipper or the Buffalo Wings, for the up-
coming Commons Chicken Wing Eating
Contest.

For most people, the Commons food
show is like a Christmas in late Septem-
ber. On several separate occasions I heard
students saying, “I’m so happy right now”
or “this is like eating at a restaurant.
Everything’s so good and fresh.”

Others however questioned the naivety
of those who enjoy such a display. Aaron
Smith ’05 is one such student. “Doesn’t
anyone see that this is all an excuse for
Commons to take a day off while still serv-
ing the same mass produced junk? They
don’t ever serve any of the food we vote
for. Check the hot rolls drawer a month
from now and you'll see it still has the
same stale, lukewarm rolls in it, instead of
the Ciabbatta Variety dinner roll you
voted for.”

Despite what the naysayers might say,
the 9" Annual Vote Your Choice Food
Show was a shining moment for Dining
Services. Not only does it help the local
economy and connect students to the
community, but it sure makes for one de-
licious and satisfying lunch.

By Jeffery Yeakel

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2004 9

College crams for
SACS review

Davidson has begun to prepare the
campus for its accreditation renewal with
the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools, and the administration has been
working overtime to get ready for the re-
view. Members of the office of Planning
and Institutional Research, the group as-
signed to oversee Davidson’s compliance
with SACS regulations, have reportedly
been working 18-hour days and drinking
10-12 cups of coffee. Most of the work
involves pouring through a 600-page
manual of rules and regulations. Elaine
Scolnick, the director of Planning and
Institutional Research, says teamwork
has helped them get through all of the
material. “Well, none of us really kept up
with the reading, so we split the manual
up into six different sections and are e-
mailing each other our notes. Dean Jef-
frey Hammond hasn't sent his to us yet,
and my friend Betsy says she saw him out
drinking at Warner last night. That is so
totally not cool.” Scolnick believes they
will be well prepared for the review, espe-
cially if Hammond’s friend with the
Ritalin prescription comes through for
them.

The SACS evaluates and accredits nu-
merous undergraduate and grammar
schools in the southeastern United States.
Other below-the-Dixie Line academic in-
stitutions facing renewal include Duke
University, Wake Forest University, and
Jim Bob’s School of Veterinary Medicine.
The grading process is said to be very
stringent; Jim Bob's School is said to have
failed their recent SACS review when it
was discovered that instead of actually
healing rabbits, they just buy a new rabbit
that looks like the old one. Problems like
this one are exactly what the Planning
office is trying to avoid.

The SACS evaluation is threefold: aca-
demics, student life, and aesthetics. The
academic evaluation mostly involves
depth and difficulty of material taught

and student proficiency. Material diffi-
culty at Davidson gets a boost from
classes like Physics, Mathematics, Span-
ish and other classes that students such as
sophomore Marissa Marks claim are “like,
totally impossible to understand.”

Dean Joseph Hafker believes
Davidson’s high academic standards will
sail past the SACS’ requirements; how-
ever, he has been quoted as asking some
members of certain less demanding de-
partments to “wear janitor uniforms for a
while.” Similarly, campus aesthetics have
not been regarded as much of a problem.
Davidson’s beautiful brick buildings and
lush green lawns are renowned across the
Southeast. Problematic, however, may be
some of the college’s uglier students.
Hafker discussed possible remedies to
this touchy issue, “We haven't discussed a
cage per se, but there have been talks of
some sort of an enclosure. Needless to
say, any affected students will have regu-
lar feeding times and daily outdoor
playtime to run around or dig.”

The review of student life, however, is
a different issue. Many members of the
administration are reportedly worried
about the state of Davidson’s social scene.
Even though the quality of life at
Davidsonis currently ranked number one
overall by the Princeton Review, they
worry that it has peeked due to an in-
crease in sub-free housing, more strict
policing, and unnecessary student peti-
tion tables in front of Chambers have
been on the rise. Numerous plans aimed
at student life have been suggested; one
favored proposal is to lure the many
squirrels to the Cross Country Trails.
Overall, everyone believes that the College
will be ready within fifteen minutes of the
evaluation. :

The SACS is known for tough reviews,
but with the office of Planning and Insti-
tutional Research pulling an all-nighter,
Davidson’s renewal should be a safe bet.

write for

YOWL

THIS
SPACE FOR
SALE

Contact
brparets@davidson.edu
with your ideas, com-
ments, or suggestions

