THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

Shops for the frugal |

Doesn’t Birkdale remind you of “The
Stepford Wives?” It is sterile, complacent and
lacks the cultural flair that once made Davidson
so familiar. Our fashionable research staff has
compiled a list of affordable places of which
you may or may not be familiar.

1.) Oak Street Mill—This antique-store mill
is perfect for those who enjoy strolling through
neatly maintained booths that overflow with
personal items of yesterday. One staffer once
found a vintage Christian Dior belt for $20,
and another found dainty church gloves that
kiss the elbow. Fabulous! OakStreet Mill:
19725 Oak St. Cornelius, 704-895-2653.

2.) Habitat for Humanity — Another gem for
those who love what’s old. Habitat for Human-
ity: 20310 North Main Street, 704-896-8468.
[Behind the Police Station in Cornelius]

3.) The Goodwill Retail Store — Popular
among students who frequent Patterson Court’ s
theme parties. The Goodwill has everything
from bridal gowns to old-school straight skis.
The Goodwill: exit 28, 214 Williamson Road;
704-696-0033.

4.) Value Village — This is more of an under-

Value Village- a place where ,
bargains can be found.

It’s fairly obvious when a certain fashion
trend enters its denouement. Wearing a trucker
hat, forexample, gives one the feeling that one

has been tagged by a team of fervent biologists.

conducting a study of the migratory habits of
rich white folk. -

The end of atrendcanbe spotted by any mall-
hopping simpleton. Yetin the midst of the fever,
itis hard to keep one’s head. If only one could
apply hindsight to the present; the tool never
fails to present a crystal clear vision of histori-
cally horrid trends.

“Oh, my, neon and Lycra—what were they
thinking?” we ask with ahealthy dose of moral
and aesthetic superiority. But the trick is to spot
the whitehead of today before it becomes the
zit of tomorrow. Let us select current styles of
our precocious college campus that deserves
to be excised.

We live the fashion vacuum that is the south-
eastern U.S., which means that pastels are de

Bob Jones University requires
girls to wear long skirts.

ground treasure. Value Village is a large-scale
used clothing store that has fabulous vintage
jackets and more. Carolina Value Village: exit
36, 314 East Plaza; 704-663-7242.

5.) Target — Now that Target offers designs
by Isaac Mizrahi, Mossimo, Cynthia Rowley
and Michael Graves, who need§ their more
pricey items? Target truly has become the
French boutique for the cheap. Super Target:
exit 36, 9801 Sam Furr Rd; 704-896-2601.

6.) Syms — A favorite among those who
enjoy serious browsing and don’t mind dress-
ing rooms that resemble corral stalls more than
they do a shopping arena. However Syms is a
leading off-price retailer that offers designer
items for less than $20. Syms: 3600 N. Sharon
Amity Rd, Charlotte; 704-532-0018.

7.) Concord Mills — Too-many acres of all
things discount. Our favorite stores are: Bass
Pro Shop, Banana Republic Factory Store,
Eddie Bauer Outlet, Forever 21, Brooks Broth-
ers Factory. Store, Polo Ralph Lauren Factory
Store, Perry Ellis, Arden B, and Saks Off Fifth.
If all of these stores appeal, bring your lunch
money. Concord Mills: 8111 Coricord Mills
Blvd; 704-979-5000.

8.) T.J.Maxx — Where one Davidsonian
purchased their formal wear. T.J.Maxx has
everything from designer jeans like Diesel and
Miss Sixty to fabulous hosiery. T.J.Maxx: exit
36, Sam Furr Road; 704-799-3757.

9.) J&R - Best place to buy Wranglers and
other Western-style accoutrements for cheap.
J&R is somewhat of a haul but its boastful
billboards offer exciting literature during your
drive. J&R: 1515 East Broad St, Statesville;
704-872-5300.

Davidson’s ubiquitous short

. Skirts, a far cry from BJU.

rigueur. Yet our first pick in the Davidson bad-
fashion draft goes to pale shades of pink, blue,
and yellow. Women wear pastels here like the
buildings wear brick. We just went to a party
at which a powerful pastel tube dress bomb had
been set off, tragically wounding almost every
female, and one very drunk male.

Of course, everyone looked lovely, and we
too were wearing pink. The problem with pas-
tels is that, when worn in multiples, one tends
to look like an Easter egg, or a cool bowl of

sherbet. And while a soft yellow or pink looks -

great those with bronze skin, the pale turn
pastry-like. We love a good pastel on a sum-
mer day, but only when donned with aware-
ness and not wild abandon.

We also have issues with teeny-tiny flared
skirts and body hugging, brightly striped shirts.
What about other prints, girls? Or other skirt
lengths?

We were recently inspired by a brochure
from Bob Jones University in which four
women smile with the joy of the Lenten sea-
son. Really, they are just super-excited about
their ankle-length skirts, which is the female
dress code requirement at the school. So what
say we bring back the long skirt? Or, we don’t
know, some length that doesn’t require me to
see the under-curve of everyone’s butt cheeks.

VO het did. gas

The pointy-toed shoe has become a cliche
not only at Davidson, but also among twenty-
something women across America. But be sure
to watch out for shoes with extreme promon-
tories: they are dangerously close to those me-
dieval page elf shoes one sees in tapestries.
We’re none too far away from this historical
disaster - and, perhaps, severe foot disfigure-
ment.

Furthermore, college women often pair the
dagger-toed shoe with tight flared jeans and a
slinky sleeveless top. We are all about this
combo; it’s asimple way to look jazzy and put-
together. But when lost amidst a sea of other
well-heeled and tank-topped lovelies at a party,
we find ourselves feeling bland. All we are sug-
gesting is a little creativity.

Shall we even proffer advice to the gentle-
men of Davidson College? Pastel shorts, Rain-
bow flip flops, polo collars popped or frater-
nity or sport t-shirt perfectly scruffed—it is a

WEDNESDAY, April 21, 2004

gms Cn today?

‘be

uniform of iron that cannot be welded anew,
perhaps not until Judgment Day itself.

We know we ve all given up sometimes, but
really, try not to wear a Davidson sweatshirt
and jeans every day. It only says that you're
studying too much (and who’s doing that?).
And we know that we all need a handy way of
carrying our CatCards, but wow, do lanyards
make ugly necklaces. Especially the bright red
Davidson ones with needlepoint-sampler
stitching.

Butreally, we don’t want tochange too much
about Davidson wear. While the stylish would
probably be disgusted by the homogeneity of
our Campus, we would argue that we are a
better-dressed bunch than many universities.

Whether one conforms to the trends or
smartly steps out on their own, we can gener-
ally say that we’ re not slobs. But then, we have
our laundry done for us. If we didn’t, wrinkled
pants would be en vogue.

Peninsula China Bistro

Sy 1-77
Grewery| |. ~1mi_. ext t
7. Eo
19906 N Cove Rd Comelius

Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

- FREE DELIVERY (min $20) |

‘LUNCH HOURS —
‘Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00 e Sun 12:00-3:00

DINNER HOURS:
Mon-Thurs 5:00-10:00
Fri & Sat. 5:00-1 ed e ‘Sun 5:00-10:00

