8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

Creative Type: Frank Chemotti fills

lonely airways with audio oddities

a a

“05.

Frank Chemott
By Anpy MartTIN

Arts & Living Editor

An interview with Frank Chemotti ’05 of
Cedarburg, WI a few nights ago had the odd
air of one of those park bench meetings be-
tween Cold War secret agents that you see from
time to time in spy movies. The night was cer-
tainly not as cold as the Minsk or Moscow of
the movies, but a fall chill forced my hands
into my pockets and had me ducking behind
one of the library’s columns qs I waited for
Chemotti to arrive for the interview.

A stray smoker or two sat under the eaves
opposite me. A girl twenty yards away under
the big tree on the library green was on what
sounded like a late night phone call to a distant
and misbehaving boyfriend and she struggled
not to shout into her mobile phone. For the most
part though I was alone. I found myself check-
ing over my shoulders, watching my back asif
some kind of a dirty but profound metaphysi-
cal secret were about to be passed my way.

Presently, a tall thin figure appeared walk-
ing around the north side of Chambers, framed
by the electric yellow lamplight of the light
posts lining the red brick walkway. He was
caught between a wintry gust and the building’s
northern exposure and his own hands were
shoved deep into his pockets. As the figure
closed the distance between us rapidly with a
long and measured gait, I made out the bur-
gundy fleece jacket, neatly creased khakis, and
gray tennis shoes that are a trademark of Frank
Chemotti, the campus disc jockey whose sly,
reserved bearing and delightfully peculiar ra-
dio show have made him into something of a
cult figure at college. Five more steps and
Chemotti was in front of me, grinning a know-
ing grin, hands still in pockets.

We sat next to each other on one of the hard,
wooden benches outside the library and ex-
changed some stiff formalities. I fumbled with
a tape recorder brought along for the interview
until I managed to clumsily click it on. Being
that it was a new tape recorder (and being that
Iam mechanically inept) I was unsure of how
exactly to operate the simple device. At one
point Chemotti, chuckling, took it from me and
gave it a once over to make sure I wasn’t bun-
gling anything. He assured me I was in fact
tape recording our conversation and handed the
recorder back to me.

Devoted readers of this publication will
know that Chemotti and his radio.show have
appeared previously in these pages. He was not,
he says, entirely satisfied with the result of that
interview.

“Tt was stupid questions,” says Chemotti in
a thoughtful, measured tone. “I don’t remem-
ber it very well. It was mostly about things I
liked. Foods I liked. Where I was from. I don’t
know—it wasn’t very in depth. I was kind of
disappointed.”

Every Monday night at 9 p.m. on Davidson’s
WALT 1600, Chemotti hosts “Contused,” one
hour of conceptual and experimental music. “I
picked that name because I play the Stevie
Wonder song ‘Contusion’ at the beginning of
every show. And I play generally electronic

and experimental music,” says Chemotti. “Ilike
to play things that are kind of as far out as Ican
find incontrast to a lot of the other radio shows,
which I find very boring. So I try to challenge
my audience.”

The music has been so challenging at times
as to make the airwaves a little lonely—the
listenership of “Contused” is certainly not what
one might describe as large and sometimes one
gets the feeling that the DJ would prefer it that
way. “About two weeks ago I did alittle test of
my audience,” a characteristically deadpan-
Chemotti quips, “I didn’t do a show.” And did
he get a lot of complaints? “Not one word.
Nobody missed it.”

Chemotti has a passionate interest in the
sequencing and selection of music on his show
and in conversation it is clear that he under-
stands this as an artistic contribution of his own.
“Usually in the second half of the show I do
what I call a ‘free set’ in which I just kind of
open up the format for me to just play what-
ever I want. I try to mix sounds together, play
what I think would sound good together,” he

- says. “I also just kind of got bored with choos-

ing the order of my songs to play and, you know,
pushing the buttons exactly when I’m supposed
to. I take risks, I make mistakes; it’s more
exciting and hopefully it’s more exciting to
listen to.”

Chemotti is also a pianist (he’s played since
he was 5), though he mostly now plays in spare
time. “I have a few pieces that I’m still work-
ing on. I guess I just tend to play piano when
I’m bored and don’t have other things to do.”
He says, though, that he still prefers to work on
acouple of pieces by Ravel these days. He has
also composed some experimental electronic
pieces on his own—“I guess I still have a mind
for it.”

A mathematics major, Chemotti has plans
to continue on to graduate school in pure math-
ematics next year in “a big city.” Chemotti cites
mathematics as an influence on his work in the
WALT booth. “I guess it has removed any fear
of the abstract I might have had previously. In
mathematics, I don’t care about working with
concrete objects. I can work with just letters.
and sets. And my music doesn’t have to have
lyrics oridentifiable sounds that match up with
this world.”

STSTRAVEL.COM

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2004

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

