THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005 19

Club lacrosse claims conference championship

By GEOFF FEHLING
Guest Writer

An invitation to participate in the USL-
MDIA National Championship in Blaine,
MN, next week means that the 7th-ranked
club lacrosse team will be extending their
post-season play.

Lacrosse beat Appalachian State in a dou-
ble-overtime thriller Sunday afternoon by a
score of 12-11 to win the Southeastern
Lacrosse Conference (SELC) Division B*
Championship in only its second year in the
league. There are 13 teams in the B-division,
which consists of smaller schools with a 1-
AA football program: As champion,
Davidson receives one of 16 automatic qual-
ifiers to the national club lacrosse tourna-
ment held annually in early May.

“The level of talent on this team is incred-
ible,” said goalie Ben Ralston ’05. “In atime
when Title LX has made men’s club sports
extremely competitive, this young team has
been able to dominate. I only wish I could
play in the coming years when I know
Davidson lacrosse will make another run at
the national championship.”

Ralston, named to the .SELC AIll-
Conference and All-Tournament teams,
made several crucial saves during the two
overtime periods, which allowed Davidson
to get the clinching goal.

The ’Cats finished the regular season with
an overall record of 8-2 and 5-1 in SELC
conference play and headed into the tourna-
ment as the 3rd overall seed with a number
of regular season victories behind them.

In 2005, Davidson had defeated cross-con-
ference rival Elon University on the
Phoenix’s home field, beat A-division
University of South Carolina for the second
consecutive year, and outscored their oppo-

@

nents 167 to 82. Davidson had extra incen-
tive heading into this year’s tournament,
seeking revenge fora heartbreaking 17-19
loss to No. 5 Appalachian State earlier in the
season in Richardson Stadium.

In a sudden burst of- offense, co-captain

Garen Riedel ’06 took an overhand shot that
found the back of the net and gave the team
its first conference championship. .

None of the team’s accomplishments
would have been possible without the partic-
ipation of head coach Fuji Lozada, a
Davidson professor of anthropology and for-
mer Division-I lacrosse player. Lozada’s
organization and commitment to the team
were invaluable to the team’s success at any
level. ,

“Having a faculty member involved with a
club program who is just as passionate about

Davidson comes out on top after double overtime on Sunday

the game as the players is a necessity if you
want to have a successful program,” said
defenseman Greg Means ’08. “Luckily, we
have that. Fuji brings experience and focus
to the field through his days playing defense
at Harvard, and we have a lot of fun with him
as we win tour-
naments.”

Coach Lozada
is aiming to
build a strong
fundamental
program that can
compete at the
highest possible
level.

“This year, our
second year in
the league,”
Lozada said, “we
shocked every-
one in the
Southern
lacrosse world
by winning the
B-Division
championship
and hopefully,
with even more
support from the college, we can compete on
a national stage at the first national champi-
onship for the B-Division of the US Lacrosse
Intercollegiate Associates.”

Even if problems arise in organizing a trip
to the national tournament, the team mem-
bers still plan to participate in games over
the summer during a tournament in Beijing.

“Our upcoming trip to China will bring
[the team] to an even wider audience,” said
Lozada.

With the possibility of extending post-sea-
son play, many team members are excited to

ee

bring recognition to Davidson College ath-
letics at a national level. This year alone, the
team had five players named to the All-
Conference teams and six to the Aill-
Tournament team, as well as the tournament
offensive MVP and the defensive MVP of
the year.

Last year, the ’Cats had three honorable
mention All-Americans and hope to increase
that number as the program improves every
year.

Since the inaugural season in 2003, the
roster has almost tripled in size to 29 players,
only seven of them seniors. With a reliance
primarily on outside sources to support the
team, men’s lacrosse has been searching for |
funds from organizations on campus to sub-
sidize their trip to Minnesota. Fighting for
field space and facilities is more challenging
as the number and intensity of clubs at
Davidson grows.

“Club teams such as club lacrosse or
DUFF,” Lozada said, “while supported by
the college, do not have the same status as
varsity teams there is not the same recogni-
tion, despite the similar black-and-blue color
of the bruises and the shared content of the
sweat on the fields of play, club level athletes
are seen as pursuing hobbies on the side.”

Throughout the season, the team was out-
numbered but won by relying on teamwork.

“Sweeping two great teams [during the
SELC Tournament] that had the advantage of
scholarship funds and large numbers, we
were able to play through injury and get by
on heart,” said attackman Jamie Butler 07.
“I look forward to the chance to represent
Davidson at the national championship.”

With a chance at a national championship,
the team looks forward to the 2005-06 sea-
son to further improve and gain more sup-
port from students and the administration.

From the Library: |

(or listen in!).

them down.

or comments.

-CD Players. If you turn them up too loud, someon

-new hours for the electronic classroom at 12:30...or as soon as there are no more scheduled uses for
the room, it will be opened for student use. This will be the routine all during the school year.

-carrel applications for next year are available at the reference desk

-4 laptops are available for check-out, wireless...ask at the circulation desk
-Hours extended. During end of the year Friday and Saturdays until midnight; during exams, until 3AM
Wireless. Now the entire library building has been ‘wired for wireless.’

-Cell phones. Please cut them off in the building, use them only outside so others won’t be bothered

e else can hear them...please be thoughtful and turn
-Return your books before leaving. Check the library homepage for a list of books charged out in

your name...please turn them in before heading out. This includes interlibrary loan books!

-Lost books. Please help us find books around campus...in the dorms, classrooms, lounges, all over.
Either bring them back or let us know so we can have them picked up. We want to cut the number of lost

items drastically from last year.

-Suggestions for next year? Go to the CHAL Suggestion Box and let us hear from you...suggestions

Good luck on exams--have a great summer!

--The Library Staff

