THE DAVIDSONIAN

_ NEWS.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005 3

First-years dissatisfied
with election process

By ALEX GREGOR
Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA) held freshmen elections Monday
from 8:30 a.m. to 8:00 p.m., followed by a
runoff election for the top 12 candidates on
Tuesday.

In retrospect, some of the freshmen candi-
dates have criticized the campaign process.

“T think the election process needs a pub-
lic speaking element ... the process is too
superficial,’ Mike Beaucaire ’09 said.

Many students who were not running crit-
icized the election process as well.

“I wish that candidates would make more
of an effort to show what policies they sup-
port ... I feel like the candidates are focusing
on who can make the coolest posters rather
than on who’s. the most qualified,” said
Kelsey Formost ’09.

“We've only been here for three
weeks, and thus the majority of
voters are not well-acquainted
with every person running...
When you get down to it, it is a
popularity contest.”

--Sara Kay Knicely ’09

Other students echoed Formost’s senti-
ments.

“We've only been here for three
weeks, and thus the majority of voters are
not well-acquainted with every person run-
ning. It’s hard to have a firm grasp on who
will do the best job ... a fair amount of vot-
ers are going to be voting for the people they
know. When you get down to it, it is a popu-
larity contest,” said Sara Kay Knicely ’09.

Campaigning began on September 2, the
last day members of the class of 2009 could
declare their candidacy for the SGA’s senato-
rial elections. ‘

Thirty-one freshmen registered as candi-
dates for the six senatorial positions. The top
vote- winner becomes class president.

During the brief time leading up to the
elections, the candidates “are allowed to do
whatever campaigning they want as long as
they don’t exceed the $15 campaign limit
and as long as they do not campaign whatso-
ever in any of the academic buildings,” said
SGA Election Chair Ryan Creighan ’07.

Robbie Squibb ’09 disagreed with the pol-
icy of not allowing campaign buttons or
word of mouth campaigning in academic
buildings. ;

“Word of mouth campaigning ... is the
best way to associate a candidate’s name and
face, and restricting it from the place where
freshmen are most likely to see each other
does not make much sense,” Squibb said.

Most candidates followed similar methods
in campaigning, promoting themselves by
word-of-mouth and festooning dormitory
hallways and the Alvarez Student Union
with posters.-

The more brazen candidates decorated
bathroom stalls with self-promoting flyers,
and a few students even donated their bed
sheets to the electoral cause, flying them out
of dorm windows or using them to clothe the
columns of Vail Commons.

“Some were corny, some were clever ...
some tasteful, some not so tasteful,” Knicely
said.

A number of candidates also created
groups for their campaigns and supporters on
theFacebook.com, a popular online social
network.

“Oh, we ‘facebooked.’ We got 80 mem-
bers in our group,” said Alex Hunger ’09,
campaign manager for Kate Sternstein ’09 .

On election day, candidates were permit-
ted to publish a statement of 100 words or
less “to promote their campaign or to include
anything they wish to be sent out to the stu-
dent body,” Creighan said. --

Some candidates used their statements to
introduce themselves, others to vaunt them-
selves, and still others to propose ambitious
campaign platforms.

Upperclassmen Honor Council and
Independent Senator elections were held at
this time as well.

Category | Election Results’

Freshman Class President
Richmond Blake

Freshmen Senators
Brian Aoyama |
_ Ben Ferguson —
‘Coleman Hubbard
Omar Pickett _
Kate Sternstein

Sophomore Honor Council
‘Kate Denning >
:: Elizabeth Henry
Rob Heppenstall
_ Matthew Gregory

Community Service Office
gets two new leaders

By BRIAN MoRAN
Staff Writer

Following the resignation of two of its
leaders last spring, Davidson’s Community
Service Office has added Stacey Riemer and
Kevin Buechler to its ranks.

Riemer will serve as Assistant Dean of
Community Service, while Buechler joins
Davidson as Director of Community Service
and the Bonner Scholars program.

While both Buechler and Riemer are
impressed and pleased with Davidson’s com-
munity service program, they see opportuni-
ties for improvement and changes they
would like to make in the years ahead.

Integration of all service efforts into the
one office is a major goal for the upcoming
year. ““We want to create this [office] as a hub
for all service,’ Buechler said.

“Our vision for the next year is
not only to get the word out, but ©
also to present a unified image of
our purpose as community service
broadly defined.”
--Stacey Riemer, Assistant
Dean of Community Service

Similarly, Riemer plans to reach out to dif-
ferent groups across campus.

“Beyond our major programs, we’re a
resource to everyone,” she said.

Buechler also identified the disparity
between female and male participation in
service as a major problem to address. He
said he hopes to overcome the image of
“service as a feminine thing to do.”

“Service is about leadership and citizen-

ship,” Buechler said.

Riemer joined Davidson from Syracuse
University, where she was a faculty member
of the school’s higher education graduate
program as well as Associate Director of the
Center for Public and Community Service.

Riemer was attracted to Davidson because
of its size and feel, as well as its attitude
toward community service.

“IT missed the small liberal arts atmos-
phere,” she said.

Particularly, Riemer was “really struck by
the consistency of Davidson doing what it
says it does.”

She noted that while many schools often
set service positions off to the side, Davidson
“walks the service walk.”

While here, Riemer will continue to work
towards her doctorate, focusing on the expe-
rience of students in paid service-learning
programs.

Buechler, who has a bachelor’s degree in
history and graduate degree in humanities,

was formerly a teacher of government and
English at Avon Old Farms School in Avon,
Connecticut, where he also served as coordi-
nator of community service.

“T found that working with my students in
community-based projects was the most ful-
filling aspect of my job,” Buechler said.

When he first took over Avon’s communi-
ty service program, Buechler was faced with
a program dominated by students looking to
satisfy their athletic requirement.

During his five years as community serv-
ice coordinator, Buechler was able to elevate
voluntary service involvement from under
five percent to over 80 percent.

Buechler eventually decided that a move
to higher education would be gratifying.
Upon visiting Davidson, he was impressed
by the “friendliness of every person” that he

- met.

“T don’t know how I could have said no,”
he said.

Buechler is excited to join a community
“committed to leadership and service.”
Among the community service office’s
strengths he sees are a “wonderful pool of
students” with a “willingness to get involved
across the board.”

Buechler cited Patterson Court and United
Community Action as particular assets to
Davidson’s tradition of service.

He noted that the response to the recent
disaster surrounding Hurricane Katrina epit-
omizes Davidson’s attitude toward service.

“People just want to give their time and
money,” he said.

Buechler and Riemer are very optimistic
about the future of Davidson’s Community
Service office.

“Our vision for the next, year is not only to
get the word out, but also to present a unified
image of our purpose as community service
broadly defined,’ Riemer said. “I really
think there are opportunities here.”

Stacey Riemer is Davidson’s new
Assistant Dean of Community Service

Muchane, continued from page 2

From there, he continued to the University
of Tennessee-Knoxville, where he received
his masters degree in planning with a con-
centration in spatial information systems in
1990.

He stayed at Tennessee until 1999, serving
as associate director of university-wide tech-
nology and as an adjunct assistant professor,
teaching courses on information systems.

According to Muchane, his previous expe-
rience in several ‘different branches of col-
lege administration and education provide
him with a unique perspective.

“Knowing what occurs in the classroom
and in fundraising, for example, gives me a
better understanding of college ‘functions,”
he said.

When offered the position of an instruc-
tional technologist at Davidson in 1999,
Muchane leapt at the chance to return to a
small school after having cultivated a “love
of the liberal arts tradition” at Warren

Wilson. Working as director of instructional
technology, Muchane helped to establish a
fund for management and replacement of
educational and research computers in the
science departments, introduce Blackboard
to Davidson, and establish the Center for
Instructional Technology in Chambers.

While immersed in his new position at the
college, Muchane also finds time for
involvement in the greater Davidson com-
munity.

He did not assume his new position until
July 12, when he returned from a trip to
Kenya he led with the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church Global Missions group,

. which he co-chairs while also serving as an

elder in the church.

When not involved with his many com-
mitments, Muchane enjoys running, singing
in the DCPC Chancel Choir, and spending
time with his wife, Mary, who is Director of
Grants and Contracts at the college, and his
two sons Michael and Mark.
