12 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

| The Week Ahead |

For you
Sports fans...
TRUMBO’S PICKS

OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of

the Week

Men’s Basketball
Davidson at Duke
11/18 5:00 p.m.
ESPN 2

This pick is a no brainer. Following a
beating of Concordia, men’s basketball
will experience the other end of the

Philly future dim without two stars

As a wideout for Philadelphia, Terrell
Owens had 47 catches and six touchdowns in
seven games this year. That’s almost seven

. catches and a touchdown a game.

The Eagles’ other two wideouts, Reggie
Brown and Greg Lewis, had only six catches
combined in Sunday’s loss to Dallas.

Just looking at the math, it’s easy to see
that Philly could really use T.O. on the field.
Looking at the math, T.O. is an asset—a very
controversial asset—to the Eagles’ depth
chart. There is no disputing his grasp of the
game and the sheer gracefulness with which
he can catch a McNabb pass and speed past
every defender for the touchdown.

Owens, however, has proven that football
is indeed a team sport. His self-centered atti-
tude has led to a breakdown within the team,
and now he won’t be returning to the City of
Brotherly Love unless it’s to play against the
very people whose downfall he made a real-
ity.

Along with his agent Drew Rosenhaus,
whose burlesque-like performances steal the
show even from the loud athlete, T.O. has
made harsh statements about his quarter-
back, the Eagles organization, and the coach,
and has lost no opportunity to cast himself as
the victim.

“I’m smart enough to know when I’ve
done something wrong, but I don’t under-
stand this,” he said to ESPN the Magazine
after he was criticized for his endzone antics.
“Guys are beating their wives, getting DUIs
and doing drugs, and I get national attention
for a Sharpie? People are personally attack-
ing me because I did something creative dur-
ing a game. Why?”

Excuse me, but wasn’t the whole point of
autographing the football after a touchdown
to attract attention to himself (not his team-
mates, not his team) and get individual cred-
it? And when he made a very public fuss
about the lack of celebration for his 100th
career touchdown on Oct. 23, well, he cer-

By Ricky DIMON
Staff Writer

The men’s basketball team is picking up
right where it left off last season—playing
the defending ACC Champion on national
television. Get your TVs on ESPN2 Saturday
at 5 p.m. when the ’Cats will venture into the
unfriendly confines of Cameron Indoor
Stadium to take on Mike Krzyzewski’s Duke
Blue Devils.

While the “Cameron Crazies” will attempt
to get in the heads of yet another mid-major
school, these ’Cats will be anything but
intimidated. They have been there before,
and the current seniors have played on
Coach K. Court twice. Davidson visited
Duke in both 2002 and 2003, putting forth
valiant efforts that ultimately came up short.
In the 2002 contest, the Cats closed to with-
in one basket late in the first half, then trailed
by only six with a minute left in the game
before falling 95-80.

Last season, Davidson treated a “home”
crowd to an equally thrilling contest against
the Blue Devils in the Charlotte Coliseum.
The ’Cats trailed by only four points with
five minutes remaining, but Duke hit their
free throws down the stretch and pulled
away for a 74-61 victory.

Heading into this season, both teams have
reloaded and are unanimously favored to win
their respective conferences. Duke lost guard
Daniel Ewing and forward Shavlik
Randolph, but the Blue Devils are returning
All-Americans J.J. Redick and Shelden
Williams. Coach K. also landed McDonalds
All-Americans Josh McRoberts and Greg
Paulus, two first-years expected to con-
tribute immediately.

Like Duke, the ’Cats also lost two key
components in big men Logan Kosmalski
’05 and Conor Grace ’05. Davidson, howev-

From the Sideline

neau

tainly wasn’t in a hurry to thank the players
that blocked for and threw to him.

Said T.O., “I’ll watch the highlights every
now and then, but as far as watching the
game, I feel like I am the game.” That’s
either really confident or really arrogant. My
vote is for the latter, and arrogance is no
friend to team unity.

The situation with Donovan McNabb and
the Eagles clearly parallels his jaunt with the
49ers and QB Jeff Garcia in San Francisco.
He makes great plays, leads the team in
touchdown receptions, and ultimately self-
destructs. He accused Garcia of having a
weak arm; he told reporters that the Eagles
would be better off with Packer Brett Favre
than McNabb. The Philly quarterback has
gone out of his way to avoid slinging mud
back in Owens’ direction, but the wideout
has not made it easy. Just last week he
allegedly challenged McNabb to a fight in
the locker room, which McNabb declined.

er, sports a 2005-2006 roster that consists of
seven seniors, three of whom are returning
starters and two others who averaged double
figures off the bench last season.

Filling the void left by Kosmalski and
Grace, Ian Johnson ’06 will have the task of
containing either McRoberts or Williams on
Saturday. Johnson, who scored 23 points
against Duke in his first collegiate game in
2002, will also be counted upon to provide
the bulk of Davidson’s frontcourt scoring.

For Davidson to have a
realistic chance of upset-
ting the No. I Blue
Devils, their experienced,
vaunted backcourt will
have to shine.

For Davidson to have a realistic chance of
upsetting the No. 1 Blue Devils, their experi-
enced, vaunted backcourt will have to shine.
Point guard Kenny Grant ’06 will be running
the offense against a Duke defense known
for applying relentless pressure and capital-
izing on opponents’ turnovers. If Grant can
repeat his zero-turnover performanice the last
time Davidson played in Cameron Indoor,
the ’Cats could start sounding the upset alert.

That is, only if J.J. Redick is off-target
from the three-point line. Regardless of how
well the ’Cats defend the guy everyone loves
to hate, Redick will get off his share of treys,
as he has perfected the art of shooting off-
balance and off the dribble. If Redick is on
fire from beyond the arc, Matt McKillop ’06
and Brendan Winters ’06 must answer.

In last season’s upset of Missouri,
McKillop knocked down five threes en route

Owens was bid adieu by Philly for the last
time just before the Redskins routed last
year’s NFC champions. His hands, but not
his temper, were gieatly missed as the Eagles
fell 17-10, then were! defeated the next
Sunday by_Dallas in their third straight loss.
The question has become whether his soap-
opera style would be a greater threat to the
team than his abilities are an advantage. His
former coach in San Francisco, Bill Walsh,
tried to remedy the problem by mandating
anger management counseling. Owens was
dropped because the treatment didn’t work.
Go figure.

This past weekend, fans threw mutilated
No. 81 jerseys into a coffin, along with a few
bucks for T.O.’s retirement fund, and with
the demonstration, it was obvious even his
terrific numbers didn’t lessen the hostility.
The coffin was then burnt and its ashes
spread over the endzone, the very place T.O.
reigned supreme for so many weeks.

For Philadelphia’s loyal fans, only a loss
to the Cowboys could have overshadowed
Owens’ dramatic parting from the organiza-
tion; unfortunately, quarterback McNabb is
now under as much fire as his former team-
mate. In one of the worst plays of his career,
the QB was intercepted by Dallas’ Roy
Williams, who ran it in for the touchdown.
This. led to a fourth quarter come-from-
behind win for the Cowboys and a despair-
ing home crowd.

The Eagles go into week 11 with a losing
record and an away game against the 6-3
Giants, who are 4-1 at home. If Philly wins
this Sunday, it could mean a chance for the
post-season. Everything hinges upon
Donovan McNabb, who is almost definitely
out for the next game, if not the season, with
a stomach-muscle tear that will require sur-
gery. ;

Will the Eagles be able to pull off a mira-
cle without their starting quarterback and
best receiver? It is very, very doubtful.

’Cats look to quiet Cameron Crazies

to scoring a game-high 28 points. The ’Cats
need a similar performance out of the senior
co-captain on Saturday.

Davidson must also rely on Winters, the
Southern Conference Pre-Season Player of
the Year, to duplicate his standout perform-
ance from last season’s clash with the Blue
Devils. In that contest, Winters recorded 24
points on 10-for-17 shooting, including four
of seven from downtown.

Boris Meno ’08 and Thomas Sander ’08
will split time at center. What makes Meno a
D-Block and Belk Arena fan favorite—his
unrivaled athleticism and spirited play—will
also make him the object of the Cameron
Crazies’ ire in Cameron Indoor Stadium. He
will have to tune out the hecklers as he bat-
tles under the basket with McRoberts and
Williams. If Williams, known as “The
Landlord” for the way he consistently domi-
nates in the paint, gets Meno and Sander in
early foul trouble, the ’Cats will find them-
selves in just that—trouble.

But Davidson has no plans of getting run
out of the gym. Nor will they be satisfied
simply with losing by a slim margin, as
coach Bob McKillop has gotten this program
to a point where moral victories are a thing
of the past. So while the ’Cats are obviously
big underdogs in a hostile environment
against the nation’s No. 1-ranked team, they
are heading into Krzyzewskiville anticipat-
ing victory.

Even if the ’Cats do not pull off the upset,
however, the contest will prepare them for
the 2005-2006 version of the tough sched-
ules that coach McKillop puts together year
in and year out to get his teams ready for
Southern Conference play. Win or lose,
Saturday’s game will be a positive step in the
*Cats’ journey toward their ultimate goal: a
Southern Conference title and berth in the
2006 NCAA Tournament.
