14

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 13, 2005

Staff Editorial

Resignations regrettable,
but process fair

Two long-time supporters of Davidson College resigned
as members of the Board of Trustees this week over an issue
that, in their view, goes to the core of Davidson’s identity.
That issue, of course, is the relaxing of the Christian
requirement for members of the College’s- Board of
Trustees.

John Belk and Steve Smith have each played a prominent
role in building the Davidson we students benefit from.
While acting on their principles is commendable, these
community-minded leaders knew, or should have known,
that their public resignations would have negative repercus-
sions on a College they have served and contributed to for
decades.

The change in the trustee requirement was moderate in
scope, long overdue, and would have carried far greater
consequences had it not passed. As our editorial board has
argued in this space before, it will hardly cause the College
to stray from its Presbyterian heritage, but instead further
embrace its roots in the Reformed tradition.

More practically, this was a change that had the support
of a vast majority of students, faculty, and trustees. Even
among alumni, the most divided group, many wrote to
express their approval or to complain that the reform did not
go far enough.

Countless individuals deserve credit for spending time
and energy on making this process as open and honest as
possible. Under the leadership of President Vagt and John
McCartney, chair of the Board of Trustees, over 17,000 let-
ters were sent to alumni about the proposed change before
the trustees’ vote. A retreat organized by the leadership last
February allowed the trustees to explore what it means to be
a college in the Reformed tradition, ensuring that any vote
would be thoughtful and in the institution’s best interest.

Vagt and McCartney were willing to weather personal
attacks for this action. Their selfless service is the kind of
leadership Davidson needs to prosper in the future.

On the other hand, the self-righteousness displayed by
Belk’s and Smith’s public resignations will leave a legacy
that overshadows the scholarships and buildings given in
their names.

As these leadership styles reveal, there is a constructive
way and a destructive way to approach this, and any, dia-
logue. Only the former is befitting to Davidson’s identity.

The Davidsonian

Sd ALE NIDA LUIX UIBE©OORTA LIBERIAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor

Mike Giglio

News Editors

_ Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yowl Editor

Brendan Parets

Sports Editors

Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory -
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year

by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please

address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail
iso ‘ "pans adem csnempebeeimnepelge

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Trustee change reflects Reformed tradition

Davidson College’s Board- of
Trustees recently decided that people
who are not active members of a
Christian church may serve on that
board. Some have criticized this as a
move away from our Christian her-
itage. I would like to offer a different
interpretation, as I see the change as a
forward-looking expression of how we
want our particular understanding of
Christian faith to be embodied.

Davidson College is related to the
Presbyterian Church USA. It stands in
that part of the family of Christian
churches known as the “Reformed tra-
dition.” The college’s Statement of
Purpose is explicit about our religious
heritage and convictions: “Davidson
commits itself to a tradition that recog-
nizes God as the source of all truth, and
finds in Jesus Christ the revelation of
that God, a God bound by no church or
creed. The loyalty of the college thus
extends beyond the Christian commu-
nity to the whole human community
and necessarily includes an openness to
and respect for the world’s various reli-
gious traditions.”

For Christians in the Reformed tradi-
tion, God’s truth is revealed fully but
not exclusively in Jesus. As human
beings, our understanding of God’s
truth is always imperfect and partial,
because we are limited by historical
and cultural circumstances. Therefore
we Presbyterians believe no church or
denomination fully embodies or
expresses the one truth revealed in
Jesus.

Precisely because of our faith in
Christ and in light of our own limited-
ness, we must be loyal to people of
other faiths. We may not agree on many
theological matters, but we should
respect and love one another, for Christ
called us to love both God and our
neighbors. In pursuit of truth, we
should be prepared equally to tell oth-

ers what we believe and also humbly to
listen to their beliefs, for perhaps we
can learn from each other ways to be
more humane to one other and faithful
to God, which is what matters in the
long run.

Davidson College has worked dili-
gently to embody this Christian identi-
ty. Five years ago we initiated a pro-
gram in which students, faculty, staff
and alumni explore their vocation in
terms of faith commitments. This pro-
gram, led by a Presbyterian minister,
encourages students to consider enter-
ing ordained ministry, brings Christian
scholars in the Reformed tradition to
teach on our faculty, and promotes con-
versations across faith traditions.

“To understand the
recent changes to the
Board of Trustees as a
turn away from our
religious heritage is
perhaps to make mis-
taken assumptions
about the tradition in
which we stand.”

In our campus religious life, we help
students of many backgrounds find
ways to be nurtured in their faith. In
collaboration with local houses of wor-
ship and religious organizations, we
now have, in addition to myself, 10
adults (including ordained clergy from
the Episcopal, Methodist, Presbyterian
Church USA, Presbyterian Church of
America, and Jewish traditions, and a
Catholic laywoman) working with stu-
dent religious organizations. Every

Thursday approximately 200 students
gather at the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church for an ecumenical,
student-led Christian service of praise
and worship. We also have Catholic,
Episcopal, Jewish, Presbyterian and
Quaker worship on campus on a regu-
lar basis.

To understand the recent changes to
the Board of Trustees as a turn away
from our religious heritage is perhaps
to make mistaken assumptions about
the tradition in which we stand. At its
best, ours is not a tradition that fears,
excludes or belittles those who are dif-
ferent. From its beginnings in the 16th
century, the Reformed tradition has
been ecumenical in spirit. Davidson has
never sought to be a school only for
Presbyterians, though they continue to
comprise the largest Christian denomi-
nation represented in the student body.

Today, the college also has Buddhist,
Hindu, Jewish and Muslim students
and staff. They are as much a part the
Davidson family as any Presbyterian,
with as much to contribute to our com-
mon life. If we are to be authentically
Christian in our particular Reformed
context, we should respect them
enough not only to “allow” our sisters
and brothers of other traditions to be
trustees, but, in fact, to hope that they
will serve the college in that capacity.
Our recent policy change therefore
gives us reason to be glad that we seek
to be a-Presbyterian church-related
institution that bears witness to a
Christian tradition in which respect for
and loyalty to all people is a hallmark
and a source of hope for the whole
human family.

Rev. Robert C. Spach ’84
Chaplain

Reprinted with permission of The Charlotte Observer.
Copyright owned by The Charlotte Observer.

Board of Trustees gave into secularist pressure

Yesterday’s Charlotte Observer trum-
peted the resignation of John Belk, an
alumnus of distinguished business and
political credentials, from the College
Board of Trustees, for inescapable dif-
ferences stemming from the Board’s
recent vote to allow non-Christians to
serve on the Board.

Was it worth it? What has the Board
accomplished by allowing — non-
Christians 20 percent of the seats on the
Board? Surely not comity. Belk and
Steve Smith, another Board member,
have just resigned. Moreover, many
alumni, students and others see this
vote for what it is: a vacuous attempt at
assuring. the outside world _ that
Davidson, indeed, gets it.

I cannot come up with a better expla-
nation for the vote. I remember the
utter lack of interest of the student
body—save for the consistent editorial-
izing by the Davidsonian—in the sub-
ject over the last four years. Though
campus sentiment favors a change to
the Christian requirement, I perceived
little pressure for a change. The Board
had felt the same way, until this year.

What happened, then? There must
have been  pressure—considerable
leverage, actually—coming from
somewhere. The re-creation of a
Reform-themed professorship, rightly

called a joke by the religious professors
two weeks ago in the Davidsonian,
smells like bait dangled from the tight
hand of a strong-willed Administrator
in order to coerce holdouts to recant.
After all, the main argument by reform-
ers—that allowing non-Christians on
the Board is more in keeping with the
‘Reform tradition’—is utterly illogical.
How can greater representation of non-
Christians possibly make the group
more amenable to keep with Christian
tradition in the future?

And the issue will not go away. The
80/20 agreement is preposterous, as
most any Board member will tell you.
Why 20 percent non-Christian? Why
not 25 percent? Or 50 percent? Why
not abolish the quota completely, as
some progressives on the Board had
originally insisted? The strong desire
by somebody—or group of somebod-
ies—to produce a symbolic victory for
secularists has led to an absolutely
unworkable agreement.

On top of the squabbling which is
sure to take place among the Board dur-
ing the next decade we have a greater
concern. The spirited opposition of
many alumni, including John Belk, the
College’s largest donor, could very well
have serious implications for future
fundraising for capital projects and

enlargements of the endowment.

However, I should note a positive
effect of Board reform. It has given all
those within the College community a
chance to see the willingness of our
beloved College’s officers to sacrifice
stability, tradition, and intellectual for-
titude for the hope: of recognition by
those who distrust any mingling of reli-
gion or sacred authority with education.
This distrust manifests itself in many
ways, yet is marked by its inability
(until now) to invade Davidson
College, even as it has conquered
almost every other elite institute of
academe. Alas, I hope that this event
will be the last time that the College
caves in to the dominant secularist atti-
tudes of our times.

Roland Foss 05

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor. Please
e-mail submissions of less
than 250 words to david-
davidson.edu. We
right to edit for

1 arayr
ram-

sonian@

reserve the

