THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS
Large gender disparity seen

among medical school apps

High female-to-male ratio
reflects national trend

By ALANA VAUGHN
Staff Writer

Despite a drop in the number of seniors
applying to medical school this year, appli-
cations have remained steady over the past
12 years. Twenty-three seniors applied to
medical school this year, down from 28 in
2004.

Dr. Jeremiah Putnam, Director of
Davidson’s Pre-medical Program, estimates
that approximately. 21 additional students
from the class of 2005 will apply to medical
school within the next year, bringing the
total number of applicants to over 40 stu-
dents.

As far as Davidson is concerned, student
interest in the medical profession has not fal-
tered.

“It shows that students are choosing the
profession for the right reasons,’ Putnam
said. :

However, according to Putnam, there is a
large disparity in the number of males and
females applying to med school.

“What is really interesting is the female-
to-male ratio,” Putman-said. “Out of the stu-
dents who intend to apply for medical school
from the class of 2005, 21 are female and 12
are male.”

The unequal female-to-male ratio reflects
a national trend.

With more females applying, it is becom-
ing more difficult for females to be accepted
into med school.

Putnam said Davidson has addressed the
male/female issue through efforts to balance
the male-to-female ratio in the admissions
office and among faculty.

Putnam also said he would like to see
“more minorities in the pre-medical pro-
grams.”

Davidson’s pre-med program has become
more geographically diverse in the past sev-
eral years. ;

As the President Elect of the National
Association of Advisors for Health
Professions, Putnam has had the opportunity
to travel across the country and attract more
diverse students into Davidson’s pre-med
program.

In addition to their major requirement,

students in the pre-med program are
required to take two courses in Biology, four
in Chemistry, and two Physics courses.
Several medical schools may also require
calculus or general mathematics courses.
The Pre-medical Advisory Committee
encourages students to take courses in

Humanities and Social Sciences for academ-

ic diversity, as more and. more medical
schools are starting to look for well-rounded
applicants who exhibit strengths in non-sci-
ence disciplines.

The rigorous workload weeds out students
who are not serious about pursuing a med-
ical career.

However, Putnam said that students are
generally undeterred by the -workload.
Davidson’s pre-med requirements are com-
parable to those of Duke and UNC Chapel
Hill.

“Out of the students who intend to
apply for medical school from the
class of 2005, 21 are female and 12
are male.” .
--Jeremiah Putnam
Director, Pre-medical Program

The rising cost of medical school tuition
has not played a large role in deterring stu-
dents from applying to med school.

“Medical schools are working hard to
raise funding for medical school students,”
Putnam said. “The assumption in the past
has been that you’ll make a lot of money so
you’ ll be able to pay off the loans.”

Putnam adds that money does play a role
career choices.

For example, because general practiction-
ers make less money, students often prefer to
specialize in a certain area.

Students also seem to come to Davidson
knowing that they are going
pre-med.

“I knew before I came to
Davidson. I haven’t decided
whether I am going straight
to medical school after I
graduate or if I’m going to
wait a year. Maybe I will,
maybe I won’t. But I plan on
specializing in Orthopedic

Surgery and Sports
Medicine,” said Max Citrin

05.

P. A

Now OPEN!
BONSAI GRILL AND SUSHI BAR
(FORMERLY JOEL’S GRILL)
101 Depot Street
Davidson, NC 28036
Tel.: 704-892-2641

Fax: 704-895-8376
(Please call to confirm all faxed orders)

LUNCH: (Mon.-Fri.) 11:00 am-2:30 pm
(Sat.-Sun.) 11:30 am-2:30 pm

DINNER: (Sun.- Thurs.) 5:00 pm-9:30 pm
(Fri.-Sat.) 5:00 pm-10:00 pm

ES

e Live in a Buddhist temple,

a Tibetan monastery, or a
; Hindu mission and
participate in religious
rituals and festivals

e Earn 30 undergraduate
credits

e All are welcome to apply

‘Conflict, continued from page 1

pointed that Spring Frolics has fallen on the
same weekend as the Eastern Orthodox
Easter in two out of the last three years, he
recognizes the logistical challenges in
scheduling campus-wide events.

When Homecoming was scheduled on the
Jewish High Holy Day Yom Kippur this past
fall, many community members called into
question the college’s commitment to the
various religious groups that are on campus.
President Bobby Vagt accepted responsibili-
ty for the decision and apologized for the
error.

In response to the scheduling mishap, the
Council on Campus and Religious Life is
examining Davidson’s sensitivity to the var-
ious religious groups on campus.

The committee, composed of students,
staff and faculty members, will make a pres-
entation to Vagt this Thursday with recom-
mendations on how the college should deal
with issues that relate to religious sensitivi-
ty.

The college does not have an official pol-
icy concerning the scheduling of major
events on religious holidays.

“We are trying to educate the campus
about high holy days of various religious

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005 5

traditions but we have stopped short of
directing what student organizations should
do,” Shandley said.

Vagt elaborated on how the college
accommodates various religious holidays.

“We avoid scheduling on major holidays,
particularly campus-wide events,” Vagt said.
“If a conflict is unavoidable, we decide what
accommodation we should make. Even if the
conflict only affects a small population at
Davidson, it’s important to recognize the
conflict and be sensitive to it.”

College Chaplain Rob Spach compiled a
calendar of religious holidays from tradi-
tions represented in the student body in the
fall of 2003.

Event organizers are encouraged to con-
sult the calendar before scheduling major
events. ;

Many important questions have been
sparked by the growing awareness of reli-
gious diversity on campus. Members of the
CCRL are considering what constitutes a
high holy day and whether it matters how
many students, staff, or faculty members cel-
ebrate a religious holiday when scheduling
an event.

“It’s a problem, but it’s a good problem
that has come up as the diversity of the stu-
dent body has increased,” Spach said.

Van, continued from page 3

becoming more expensive for the school to
maintain.

Although there are no safety issues other
than the lack of seatbelts, certain features of
older vehicles, such as a heating system that
stays on after the van has been turned off,
make it difficult to operate.

Saik believes Motor Pool should purchase
a used van rather than opting for an
Excursion.

“The van is mistreated: people don’t put
the windows up, people leave lights and heat
on and the battery dies,” Saik said. “New
vehicles don’t have these problems. A lot of
these problems would be solved if they got a
better van.”

Brawley, however, is not in favor of pur-

chasing a used van.

“A replacement vehicle is going to cost
somewhere around $34,000, and it couldn't
pay for itself just to be used on Thursdays,
Fridays, and Saturdays,” he said.

The Rides Committee is still operating the
Vamanos Van on Thursdays, Fridays, and
Saturdays and will continue to do so. SGA
recently examined a proposal to change the
hours of the van’s operation to 9:00 p.m. to
3:00 a.m. but decided against the change
because of a lack of drivers.

The committee is currently looking into
using the van to provide transportation to
other school-sponsored social activities.

“We have the potential to use it to expand
the campus,” Kreutzer said. “There is dis-
cussion to use it to arrange for off-campus
opportunities on the weekends.”

A Year-Long, Experiential Program in

Introducing the

~ New 2005-2006 Itinerary:
China, Thailand, India, Greece @& Italy

¢ Pursue your academic
interests in religion,
anthropology, and
international studies
through participating in
and experiencing various
religions & cultures

Admissions Office
Friends World Program ¢ Long Island University
239 Montauk Highway, Southampton, NY 11968-4198
(631) 287-8474
liu.edu/friendsworld/cre © fw@liu.edu

FRIENDS WORLD PROGRAM

LONGIS
| ee

COMPARATIVE RELIGION & CULTURE

Friends World: Over 35 Years of Global Education for Social Change

