‘ First Class

e Davidson

Permit #1
& “THE SOUTHS FOREMOST COLLEGE WEEKLY ” &

Davipson, NC

DAVIDSON COLLEGE ras WEDNESDAY, MARCH 16, 2005 . | i VOLUME 96, NUMBER 19

All the world’s a stage Vagt makes final
es i BE ox: mensc eromernne| SUD-free decision

from “The Two Gentlement of

Verona.” First, second year students can be sub-
Below: Dita, who plays Crabb

the dog in “The Two Gentlemen || free by hall; no option for juniors, seniors
of Verona,” attends a press con-
ference By AMEE PATEL about their concerns. “I was
Editor-in-Chief amazed at how many parents called
and said that maintaining sub-
President Bobby Vagt made his  stance-free was important,” Vagt
decision on substance-free housing said.
last week, nearly a year after Director of Residence Life
Sophomore Class President Mac Leslie Marsicano, who has been
Skelton first met with Dean of involved in the process as both a
Students Tom Shandley regarding member of the RLO Task Force
his concerns on the option. Vagt and CCRL, said that while the
called for sub-free housing to be decision itself may be surprising,
made available by halls for first the manner in which Vagt made his
and second year students only, dis- _ decision is hardly so. “He talks to a
persed around campus and based _ lot of people and arrives at his own

Two-week Royal Shakespeare Company

residency permeates campus life on demand. conclusions. It would be unusual
Vagt’s decision, which will be for him to rubber-stamp any pro-
By Kate GILLESPIE drawing in audiences with its mod- sometimes more people come.” implemented in the upcoming lot- _ posal,” she said.
Senior Staff Writer ern versions of classic Shakespeare “Julius Caesar” is set in the tery process, did not take the full
plays. beginnings of a new democracy recommendations found in the

The Royal Shakespeare “The question is how to make and resonates with modern three proposals prepared by the IN-DEPTH
Company believes its mission is Shakespeare relevant today,” said themes about the dangers of Residence Life Office’s Task Force
“to keep audiences in touch with Davidson theatre professor Ann placing too much power into the on Sub-free Housing, the SGA, or E xploring
Shakespeare — understanding his © Marie Costa, who serves on the — hands of one person. the Council on Campus and ,
work through today’s artists, RSC Advisory Committee. “How “It’s set in a timeless time,” Religious Life (CCRL). SGA and CCRL S
actors, and writers.” ‘ do we get past the barrier,.of Costa said. “You get the sense .

The RSC began its two-week Americans not thinking that that what happened to Caesar, President Vagt’s decision: sec- controversial
residency at Davidson with the Shakespeare is accessible? It’s a his hubris, could happen today. ond-year sub-free housing to rel ationship
opening performances of “The unique vision statement, because What this play does is | think continue
Two Gentlemen of Verona” and _ it’s saying we want to keep it rele- capture that in a society we can Articulating his decision in a let-

“Julius Caesar” last Wednesday _ vant and to do it in today’s lenses. choose with great oration or ter to Shandley last Friday, Vagt See article, page 4
and Thursday and has been _ If you make a play contemporary, See RSC, page 5 instructed RLO to continue the

current policy, taking the recom-

l l e f ‘H ; - J mendation by the Task Force that Implementing the new sub-

R _ t l Rw d h “the substance-free floors will be free options

ea 1 e O e an a ero dispersed among those residence RLO has moved quickly to
halls available for first-year stu- accommodate the changes to the

e ” :
to speak about Experiences “iron: te wo mx "Mastin sn 2 amps

Force’s recommendation, which wide email on Monday, informing
called for an end to the sub-free students of the decision that sub-
option for upperclassmen, Vagt free halls for second year students
decided on “a continuation of our would be dispersed around campus
current policy for second-year stu- and be based on demand.

By ZACH KAZIOR
Senior Staff Writer

Paul Rusesabagina, the real-life hero of the acclaimed film “Hotel —

Rwanda,” is coming to Davidson on Sunday, Apr. 17 to speak about his dents, with these hall units to be According to her email, “For the
experiences during the Rwandan genocide of 1994. In a speech entitled ~ dispersed as well, depending upon . academic year 2005-06, sopho-
“Hotel Rwanda: A Lesson Yet to Be Learned,” Rusesabagina will con- the demand for this option.” more substance-free housing will

nect his story with present-day African conflicts and international for-
eign policy.

During the three-month genocide, Rusesabagina’ s connections with ©
Western businessmen and high-ranking African soldiers and generals ~
allowed him to save the lives of 1,268 refugees sheltered in the hotel ~
where he worked.

Nate Shestak ’07, who spearheaded the efforts to bring Rusesabagina
to Davidson, hopes that Rusesabagina’s visit will help make the
Davidson community more aware of the struggles in Africa. ,

“Iwas primarily inspired by the ongoing genocide in Darfur and the

No substance-free housing will be located on the first floor of Belk
be designated beyond sophomore Hall.”
year. Vagt noted in his letter, “As a Skelton said this message seems
matter of practice, requests for inconsistent with Vagt’s decision
substance-free housing by juniors and does not solve the issue of stu-
and seniors has been de minimus.” —_ dents selecting the sub-free option

Vagt said that decision came only to get housing up the hill.
from the input of students, staff, “To me, if you’re going to have
and faculty members, in addition sophomore sub-free housing at all,
to the proposals of the three you have to follow what President
lack of an international response,” Shestak said. “My interest in geno- Nate  abiuck ‘or groups. Vagt actually says and disperse it.

helped to bring .
See Rwanda, page 3 Paul Russkabegina to Davidson. Parents were particularly vocal See Sub-free, page 4

TS hy 1D) Sh thud a. @ NEWS: Campus police track laundry thief SEE PAGE 2

Davidson did
not deserve

at-large bid

Organic goodness
at the Farmer’s

Market

Big Dawg’s
Commons
tips

see YOWL, PAGE 9 see SPORTS, PAGE 12 _ see A&L, PAGE 8
