16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Week in Review:

The Week Ahead

For you
sports fans...
BROOKIE’S PICKS

OF THE WEEK

Wildcat Game of
the Week

Women’s Tennis at Furman
Saturday, April 16 at 1:00 p.m.

Davidson sits just behind Furman in
the Southern Conference standings, and
a win could bring the Wildcats to the top
of the charts. The Wildcats have had a
phenomenal season, but Furman is

undefeated thus far in the SoCon. The

"Cats will have to knock of the Paladins
if they want to legitimately contend for a
championship. :

Outside the Den

Denver Nuggets at
Houston Rockets
Saturday, April 16, 7:30
ESPN

I have to vouch for my Nuggets this
week; it’s not too often that I get to see a
team from my home state of Colorado
obliterate every opponent that it faces. I
don’t know what George Karl did to turn
these guys (a bunch of lousy whiners in
the first half of the season) into the
hottest team in the NBA. Whatever he
did, it worked, and I can only hope that
it still works in the playoffs.

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

For almost 20 years, I was convinced that

Title IX was an outdated and unnecessary
means to promote gender equality in sports.

I used to sit with my mom and talk for
hours at a time by the fireplace in our den,
debating with her the merits of Title IX and
its effect on both men’s and women’s sports.

I was convinced that Title IX, while unde-
niably a positive step for women’s sports,
was no longer needed in a society that is con-
stantly moving towards promoting gender
equality.

More so, I felt that Title IX had become
unnecessarily detrimental to men’s sports, as
it was forcing schools across the country to
cut programs such as wrestling, golf, and
gymnastics, to name a few.

I couldn’t relate to my mom’s frustration,
though, because I hadn’t experienced the
times when women truly were not given the
chance—much less encouraged-to compete.

When she grew up in the ’50s and ’60s,
she had to play alongside boys just to find a
playing partner in tennis. When she went to
college in the ’70s, in the infant years of Title
IX, she was given a pair of tennis shoes. I
assure you they were not Nike’s, either.

Now I look at my sister, who has played
soccer, basketball, tennis and volleyball,
among other sports, in her short 16 years,
and I understand why my mom so vehement-
ly supported the principles of Title IX.

Sure, there are some frustrating aspects to
Title IX, particularly at the high-major col-
lege level. Revenue sports such as football
and basketball frequently finance a heavy
majority of the athletic budget, including
women’s sports, yet the scholarships used
for those revenue sports count against the
other men’s teams at the school.

Once-proud men’s programs are being cut
every year to balance the budgets and bring
programs into standards with Title IX restric-
tions.

But those concessions are well worth it
when I think about my sister, who has had

“Miss the Ti

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Guest Columnist

Tiger Woods sits comfortably in his living
room, perusing through the countless news-
paper articles by every sports journalist
across the country. “He’s back!” they all
read. Tiger laughs to himself.
He shows it to his gorgeous
wife, and she laughs as well.
He calls Mark O’Meara, his
best friend, and they both
laugh about it.

Why did we doubt him? I
tried not to; I defended him
in every argument since’ his
last swing change in 2003.
But when he went more than
12 months without winning a
stroke play event, I too start-
ed to wonder. Where did
arguably the most dominat-
ing athlete of our lifetime go?

But when Tiger won the
1997 Masters by 12 strokes
at age 21, what did he do? He
changed his swing. People
doubted his move, but Tiger
knows more than any of us.
Yes, anyone. He worked tirelessly with his
swing coach, Butch Harmon, attempting to
create the most infallible swing in golf histo-
ry, and he struggled through a few seasons in
the process.

The swing came together late in 1999,
however, and Tiger then tore apart the PGA

Tour for an unpagglleled three-year stretch.

He won seven out of the next 11 major tour-
naments, including two more Masters. He
won five consecutive PGA Tour Player of the

From the Sideline

every opportunity that I had to get involved
with sports. I am sure she would not be look-
ing at playing soccer in college if it weren’t
for Title IX.

And that’s why I can’t believe the recent
back-door announcement by the Education
Department that added a new clause to the
“equal opportunity” section of Title IX.

Schools have always been able to meet the
Title IX requirements through various
means, including showing they have met the
demand of female athletes, but there had
never before been a way to quantify that
demand. As a result, schools were forced to
provide the opportunity to play, and women
have taken advantage of that chance

With the new Department clarification,
however, schools can now identify demand
by sending out an internet survey to female
students. Worse, schools can interpret low
participation in the survey, no matter what
the actual responses indicate, as justification
for a lack of demand by women.

Eric Pearson, chairman of the College
Sports Council, says, “This clarification now
gives schools a viable, common-sense alter-
native to the gender quota that has wreaked

fe ees

Year Awards and earned more money than
any other golfer ever had.

But when Tiger won the 2002 U.S. Open
at Bethpage Black, what did he do? Almost
inexplicably, he changed his swing again. He
fired Butch Harmon because his swing coach
could not fathom why he wanted to change

Tiger may have gone 10 majors without a win, but he’s still the best.

the perfect swing. Then, when Tiger lost 10
majors in a row, everyone criticized him and
called him an idiot for firing Harmon. “His
dominance is over,” they all wrote.

Vijay Singh, Phil Mickelson, and Ernie

"Els had all caught, if not passed, him.

He kept telling us, however, that the new
swing was coming around. Why did we
doubt him? He showed signs of brilliance by
winning two non-tour events late last year
and raised all eyebrows by winning two

havoc on college athletics. There is still work
to be done, but this is a positive step in
restoring ... fairness for all student-athletes.”

But it’s really just a veiled excuse for
schools to cut back on the funding of
women’s sports, an action that would ease
the ever-growing strains on athletic budgets.

In Davidson’s elections for SGA positions,
for example, usually little more than a third
of students vote.

When the Union Board uses online voting
for the semi-annual concert research, 500-
600 is a good showing. Do you really think
that this proposed internet survey to judge
sports interest would have any different
results?

Schools are urged by the new regulations
to send out the internet survey with as much
fanfare as possible, including e-mails and
follow-up correspondence. But in the end,
the clarification creates a watered-down ver-
sion of the Title IX restrictions.

The most disturbing aspect. of this
announcement, though, is how little fanfare
it brought. In 2003, the Bush administration
spent months reviewing the entire Title IX
policy. No changes were proposed, but only
after the backlash made it clear what the
public thought of any tinkering with the law.

After two years of silence on the issue, the
Education Department then released this
refinement without a public debate of any
kind. Even the head of the NCAA, Indiana
president Myles Brand, says that this initia-
tive is potentially harmful to women’s
sports. He, of course, had no say in the issue.

After the Bush administration failed to
make progress through the court of public
opinion, it appears they decided to take the
matter into their own hands.

In doing so, they may have also set women
straight back on the course they came from
30 years ago, when my mom entered thé col-
lege ranks as at 18.

And for me, unlike a few years ago, that is
now something I take personally.

Rect y:

more PGA events this year. But when he shot
a 74 on Thursday to fall seven shots behind
first-round leader Chris DiMarco, Tiger dis-
appointed the majority of fans that thought

- he was back.

Then, the magic returned. 66 second

round. 65 third round. Both of those scores
were the lowest of their respec-
tive rounds, and while Tiger
rose up the leaderboard, every-
one else, save Chris DiMarco,
ran the other way. Ernie, Vijay,
and Phil felt the wrath of Tiger,
and started uncharacteristically
hooking drives and missing
two-foot putts.

Is he back? Sure, but he
never really left.. Tiger knew
what he was doing and still
knows what he was doing. He
is-the best golfer on the planet
for a reason, and the so-called
“slump” was anything but that.
Tiger has made 140 straight
cuts. The second longest active

“streak? 19.

‘His reign over the sports
world in 2000 was unprece-
dented, but Tiger decided to
change his swing again in search of even
more success.

Expect great things from Tiger soon. Why
should we-doubt him when he says that his
new swing is battle-tested? Sure, he strug-
gled on the 71st and 72nd holes, but when it
counted most on Sunday, in the playoff, he
hit three gorgeous shots to win at. Augusta
National.

He knows he’s on the verge of something
special, again. Why should we doubt him?
