2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEwsS

photo by Jessi

Students discuss bringing a 1 black sorority to campus at an open forum last night.

Sorority, from page 1

would be subject to the same rules as the
other PCC organizations. Representatives
would be required to attend PCC meetings,
and the president would also meet with
Hamm.

According to supporters of the initiative, a
historically black sorority would do more
than just increase diversity on the Court.

Jeffries stressed that participation in the
organization would help students even after
they graduated from Davidson.

“When you look at the role models for stu-

“Gents of color, we’re not very free flowing on
this campus,” Jeffries said. “An organization
would not only provide instant role model-
ing. We’re talking about a network that can
go way beyond Davidson.”

“When you look at the role models
for students of color, we're not very
free flowing on campus. An organ-
ization would not only provide
insTant role modeling. We're talk-
ing about a network that can go
way beyond Davidson.
-Ernest Jeffries,
Assistant Dean of Student Life

Hamm also believes that a historically
black sorority would increase leadership
opportunities on campus.

“These organizations run almost like a
business,” Hamm said. “It’s [a leadership
position] a tremendous asset to have on your
resume after you graduate from college.”

Ashoosh spoke from an admissions per-
spective and described the sorority initiative
as a “manifestation of what we promote
Davidson to be.”

“T think that one thing this type of organi-
zation: might bring to campus is to show in
another way how Davidson is changing, how
Davidson is opening up,” Ashoosh said.

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

GRILL

The panel followed a 24-2 vote in support
of a historically black sorority by the
Patterson Court Council (PCC) on Monday
night.

The initiative will next go before the
Committee on Campus and Religious Life
(CCRL). If it passes throu ugh the CCRL,
President Bobby Vagt will" make the final
decision on whether to bring a the sorority to
campus.

If the initiative is approved, the college
will follow the process it used to bring the
historically black fraternity Alpha Phi Alpha
to campus two years ago.

Representatives from the four historically
black sororities will be invited to campus to
give presentations.

Students will be encouraged to attend
these presentations and give feedback on
which organization they think fits best at
Davidson.

A committee comprised of students,
administration, and faculty will then decide
which sorority to invite to campus.

There are many challenges in the process,
however.

“It’s not automatic that you will get
approval from national offices to get an
organization,” Jeffries said. “They scrutinize
the campus very heavily.”

The small number of minority students on
campus, as well as other factors such as
grades and interest level among students,
may discourage a Greek organization from
coming, to Davidson.

Leaders of the historically black fraternity
initiative went through a 15-year process
before Alpha Phi Alpha was finally estab-
lished on campus.

The students involved in the sorority ini-
tiative are optimistic about the future.
Although they have experienced some back-
lash, they have received more support than
they expected.

“It’s definitely an uphill battle, but we’re
encouraged by the support on campus,” pan-
elist Whitney White 08 said.

ac

BAR~B~QUE,

Ss
D>

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HoT DOGS
SERVED ONGRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,SWEET
ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &OUR OWN PORK

BEAR’S BEST “SN8”PHILLY

CHEESESTEAKS & CHI

Now thee re Smoked Ribs!

Gra Gaiivanabear ant coi

Convocation, from page 1

dren who were displaced as a result of
Hurricane Katrina.

Spellings, who plays an important role in
the Bush Administration’s No Child Left
Behind Act, expressed her desire that all
children receive a quality education regard-

_ less of their socio-economic backgrounds.

She admitted that as a nation we still have
a long way to go as far as having all of our
children on an equal educational playing
field but expressed optimism about our sys-
tem, saying, “education can and will break
the cycle of poverty.” v

Spellings also expressed her faith in the
data from the new standardized test that has
come with the implementation of No Child
Left Behind and said actual testing data is
the most powerful tool our government can
use as a measure of academic success.

“In God we trust,” Spellings said. “All
others: bring data!”

Overall, Spellings’ speech followed a
theme of “you just never know.” She
reminded graduates that they “just never
know” what is going to happen in their lives,
telling them that they should keep their
minds and eyes open to opportunities in
order to realize their dreams.

Some professors and students expressed
concern prior to Spellings’ speech that her
record and affiliations would reflect poorly
on the school.

German professor Maggie McCarthy was
uncomfortable with Davidson inviting

Spellings to speak because she condemned a
PBS television show that featured a segment

French professor Lauren Yoder

about a child with two mothers earlier this
year. McCarthy said she was concerned
Spellings had reacted in a way that could
only be seen as “blatantly homophobic.”

Although she does not oppose speakers
with different viewpoints, McCarthy said
she found Spellings’ views to be completely
out of line with the college’s values, making
her an inappropriate convocation speaker.

McCarthy initiated a discussion among
faculty to express their disapproval of
Spellings’ views.

After others expressed similar feelings,
many decided to wear rainbow-colored rib-
bons, which are commonly associated with

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

support of gay rights, to the convocation as a
sign of protest. A solid number of faculty,
including senior members in the front row,
wore the ribbons at Convocation.

Others in the Davidson community, how-
ever, did not believe that Spellings’ speech
would affect Davidson’s reputation.

“T do not think it sends arly message other
than that she is the U.S. Secretary of
Education,” Barratt Park ’06 said.

Kathleen Cour ’06 felt that inviting
Spellings was a good decision because she is
more conservative than past speakers.

“The fact that they chose a more conserva-
tive-minded speaker is actually a good
example of the college balancing out their
speakers’ ideologies,” Cour said.

Many students who heard the speech
applauded Spellings for shying away from
political messages.

“One of the things I was worried about - as
a strong Democrat - was that the speech was
going to be a little too political,” Elizabeth
Rugala ’08 said. “Obviously she did have to
plug Bush at some points (he is her boss after
all), but I thought she did a good job at keep-
ing the speech focused on the graduating
class.”

History professor Sally McMillen

President Bobby Vagt had a similar reac-
tion to Spellings’ speech and said, “she pret-
ty much stayed above the political fray.”

Several awards were presented at
Convocation.

History professor and Chair of the History
Department Sally McMillen was presented
with the first ever Boswell Family Faculty
Fellowship, which will allow her to take a
one-year sabbatical with full pay and bene-
fits.

The Thomas Jefferson award was present-
ed to French professor Lauren Yoder for
“going above and beyond the call of duty” as
a professor, according to Dean of Faculty
Clark Ross.

Students who were honored included
Halley Aelion 08, who was presented the
Alumni Association Award for having the
highest GPA of her class in her first year.

The Goodwin-Exxon award was presented
to a member of the sophomore, junior, and
senior classes who demonstrates the “highest
standards of character, good sportsmanship,
and consideration of others.” This year’s
recipients were Sarah Allen ’08, Brendan
Watkins ’07, and Amee Patel ’06.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/17 Main Street

Vandalism

A sign was stolen from 310 Main Street between 8 a.m. on October 14 and 3 p.m. on
October 16. There are no suspects at this time.

10/22

Greenhouse Parking Lot

Mugging

Students reported that they were robbed in the Greenhouse Parking Lot at approxi-
mately, 2:30 a.m. According to the victims, there were at least four black males
involved, one of whom threatened violence if they did not relinquish their wallets.
Although no one was physically injured, a total of $13 was taken from the victims.
Campus police are working with local agencies to investigate and apprehend the indi-

viduals.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

