THE DAVIDSONIAN

«Joo ["} A LOOK AT THE NATIONAL MEDIA

Criticize for the right reasons

If you get all your political commentary from Sean Hamnity
and Bill O’ Reilly, chances are you view the mainstream media
rather like Woody Allen’s protagonists view themselves—rife
with neuroses. It is an article of faith
on the right that our media, self-
consciously cosmopolitan, .per-
plexed by “The Passion of the
Christ” phenomenon, and elitist to
thecore, is simply out of touch with
what drives most Americans. But
does the evidence support the lib-
eral media theory?

In 2003, the Journal of Commu-
nication published a peer-reviewed
meta-analysis of 59 previous stud-
ies examining the question. The
study concluded, “On the whole, no significant biases were
found for the newspaper industry. Biases in newsmagazines
were virtually: zero as well ... studies of television network
news showed small, measurable, but probably insubstantial

.. biases.” (Information on this study is available at http://
joc.oupjournals.org/cgi/content/abstract/50/4/133.)

If the media were biased, surely that bias would manifest
itselfin the Bush administration’s most important policy ques-
tion, the Iraq War. But when the media watchdog group Fair-
ness and Accuracy in Reporting (FAIR), which has an exten-

What’s up?

' ASHISH GEORGE

What should have been a time for
vigorous debate was instead ... the
echo chamber.

sive archive devoted to the obsequiousness of the Iraq War
coverage, looked at the 393 on-camera sources appearing on
“ABC World News Tonight”, “CBS Evening News”, “NBC
Nightly News”, and PBS’s “NewsHour with Jim Lehrer”, the
results were startling. The study focused on the week prior to
and the week after Colin Powell made his February 5, 2003
presentation before the United Nations. This time period was
arguably the most pivotal in the prelude to war.

What should have been a time for vigorous debate was in-
stead the era of the echo chamber. Of the guests on these pro-
grams, more than two-thirds (267 out of 393) were Ameri-
cans. Of these, 75 percent were current or former government
or military officials.

This would not be so objectionable as long as disagreements
were still expressed. But only one U.S. official—Senator Ted
Kennedy—articulated doubts about the war. Among both U.S.
and foreign guests, 76 percent (297 out of 393) were current
or retired officials, seriously diminishing the chances of genu-
inely independent viewpoints. Of all official sources, 75 per-
cent (222 of 297) were associated with a government that
supported the war. Incredibly, only two percent (four out of
222) were opponents of the war.

Let us content ourselves with
disparaging the media not for be-
ing left-wing, but rather for simply

being bad.

The burden of proof is borne by subscribers to the liberal
media theory. When questioned about their confidence that
the media is liberal, conservatives usually respond, “How can
you think the mediais not liberal?” But those who make positive
claims—i.e., those who believe something exists or an entity
possesses a certain trait—generally must be the ones doing the
proving.

Studies do consistently indicate that journalists are more
liberal than the population at large. And, indeed, vivid cases
exist when individuals or their employers have done shoddy
jobs that merit charges of bias, as Dan Rather’s sloppiness did.
But until clear quantitative data emerges to buttress the claim
. that journalists let their own politics seep into their work or
that Rather’s defects have metastasized, let us content our-
selves with disparaging the media not for being left-wing, but
rather for simply being bad. No other project should bind lib-
erals and conservatives together so strongly.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, NC. His
columns appear in our pages frequently. He can be
contacted at asgeorge @ davidson.edu. We also welcome
your comments on this column at

davidsonian@ davidson. edu.

_ Center for The People & The Press

. ence of a color between black .

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 19, 2005 = 11 |

FOX

‘MEWS

nNannet

CBS memo scandal shows liberal bias

Having given a‘cursory reading to the 200-some page report
on the purported “Memogate” scandal with CBS, Dan Rather,
and “60 Minutes,” Ihave to say that

. things look grim for those who pur-

port that there is no liberal bias in
the media. At least as far as CBS
goes. I will point once again to the
somewhat circumstantial but nev-
ertheless consistent evidence for the
lack of balanced coverage of ABC,
CNN, and various newspapers. In
fact, a May 2004 Pew Research

face the nathan

poll of 247 national-level journal-
ists shows a 34 to seven percent ratio
of self-described liberals to conser-
vatives. The national ratio is around
23 percent liberal to 33 conservative (preceding data from http:/
/www.mediaresearch.org).

If the percentages above and the questionable content of the
Independent Report Panel below are not indication enough of
some manner of bias, let us consider two responses to the so-
called “Memogate.” First, Dan Rather’s own response to the
initial questioning of the validity of the reports on President
Bush’s Texas Air National Guard service: “People, including
many who are partisan political operatives, concentrated not
on the key questions of the overall story, but on the documents
that were part of the support of the story” (mediaresearch.org).
Or, in short, Rather suggests that people should not consider
whether or not these documents are false, but rather what these
potentially bogus reports say. The average chimp would know
enough to scratch his head at this point.

The second response, and my personal favorite, comes from
ABC’s second-in-command, analyst George Stephanopolous.
He suggested that the forged documents might be linked to
‘Republican officials as part of a setup to discredit CBS or the
Kerry campaign. “Saturday Night Live” has a lot of fun with
the suggestion that Bush is incapable of admitting he is wrong.
I wonder if ABC still supports Stephanopolous’ statement.

Regarding “Memogate” itself, I found a few interesting sec-
tions of the report on CBSNews.com. “60 Minutes” producer
Mary Mapes seems incapable of recalling a conversation with-
out having serious points of disagreement with the other party
over key aspects of it. Regarding her contact with Kerry cam-

NATHAN
BRADSHAW

paign official Chad Clanton, Mapes holds that she spoke to him
once, while Clanton told the Panel that he had several conver-
sations with Mapes.

Mapes later contact with senior Kerry advisor Joe Lockhart
is riddled with discrepancies. Each claims that the other initi-
ated contact first. Mapes has a vague recollection that over the
course of a two-minute conversation, she may have mentioned
Lt. Col. Bill Burkett, a major source in the story to be run about
Bush’s TexANG service record, to Lockhart. Lockhart recalls
that in a five-minute discussion, Mapes pushed him to contact
Burkett and discuss a retaliation to the Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth attacks on Kerry.

Lockhart further asserted, “if the story [on Bush’s TeXANG
service] held up, his involvement would merely cast doubt on
it, and if the story did not hold up, he did not want to be asso-
ciated with it.” Both were very valid concerns, and both, unfor-
tunately for him, came true.

Having also informed Clanton of Burkett’s desire to discuss

I have to say that things look grim
for those who purport that there is
no liberal bias in the media.

strategy with the Kerry campaign—and given him Burkett’s
phone number—Mapes claims that “she did not think that
Clanton would call Lieutenant Colonel Burkett”
(CBSNews.com). This seems either naive in the extreme or a
weak attempt to make the story sound less like a senior CBS
official looking to provide specific aid to a single candidate’s
campaign.

Incidentally, the findings of the Independent Report Panel
were downplayed in the media less than 24 hours after their
release. As always, the truth is in the eye of the beholder. Per-
sonally, I say, “Behold! It walks like a duck, it talks like a duck,
and it looks like a duck.”

Nathan Bradshaw is a freshman from Swannanoa, NC.

His “Face the Nathan” column appears frequently in our
pages. He can be contacted at nabradshaw @ davidson.edu.
We also welcome your comments on this column at
davidsonian@ davidson.edu.

Separation of press and state attacked

By JC BoyLe
Staff Columnist

When commentator Armstrong Williams first confessed
wrongdoing by accepting $240,000 in taxpayer money to pro-
mote the No Child Left Behind Act, he said there was “‘a gray
area.” (Interestingly, that may

cused on those like him, and within days more turned up, albeit
with different circumstances. The news, which became the con-
servative counterattack to any anti-Bush judgmentarising from
the Williams bribery, was that the Howard Dean campaign paid
bloggers for word-of-mouth buzz during the primary season.

It is easy to admit that this too is a bad thing, and a bad thing
for independent journalism.

have been the first time a Bush
supporter admitted the exist-

and white.) Williams went on to
“thin line,” and that he had

“probably crossed it.”
-“Probably,” of course,

“That may have been the first
time a Bush supporter admitted the
acknowledge that there was a ExIStence of a color between black
and white.”

There are, however, major differ-
ences. Dean’s organization wrote
the check with its own money, not
the government’s, and at least one
of the two bloggers acknowl-
edged publicly during the cam-
paign that he was a paid consult-
ant.

doesn’t begin to cover it. When part of his defense is that he was
never paid to change his views, only to repeatedly emphasize
them, he’s trying to save himself by saying he didn’t ever have
to be bribed. But he let it happen anyway. He took almost a
quarter of a million dollars of taxpayer money to do something
he was already doing.

Recent years have not been kind to the media. Between the
Jayson Blair fiasco, the Jack Kelley follow-up, the CBS News
debacle, and the decline of objective journalism in general,
journalists have had and will have many opportunities to ques-
tion aloud what their problem is. So it is only natural that this
latest scandal has offered the

Now, two weeks after Armstrong Williams confessed his sins,
his story is dying down, with the real culprits having yet to be
found and barely sought—certainly not with the sound and fury
following Williams. His transgression was a major one, but the
government’s was far greater. A quarter of a million dollars
went to promote a program most agree is underfunded by bil-
lions.

Whoever drafted Williams’s contract with the Education De-
partment breached the wall between the fourth estate and the
government and reinforced the fact that this administration cares
more about appenrances than reality. “To seem, rather than to
be,” is the motto of the times, and

media another excuse to psycho-
analyze themselves.
Unfortunately, the navel-gaz-
ing has disguised the big picture:
that somebody in the govern-
ment contacted a member of the
media and bribed him or her to

“Whoever drafted William’s
contract ... breached the wall
between the fourth estate and the
government.”

winning support for a policy is
more important than a winning
policy. T.S. Eliot said that “be-

' tween the idea and the reality falls
_the shadow,” and starting tomor-
row, the shadow begins another
four years of illusion and obfus-

deliver propaganda for a parti-
san policy. There are more vil-
lains in this case, and we have yet to find out who they are or
how high they go.

The investigative response to Williams’s admission of guilt
has not been to find those who bribed him but instead has fo-

cation.

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, Ga.
His columns appear frequently in our pages. He can be
contacted at jcboyle @davidson.edu. We also welcome your
comments on this column at davidsonian@ davidson.edu.
