10

PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 16, 2005

Staff Editorial

Repeal obsolete social policy

Patterson Court has seen a drastic change in its weekday social
policy with the new application of a previously sensible “two-
party rule.”

Before last summer, this rule restricted the number of large,
weekend-style parties during the school week to two for all Court
houses combined.

With last summer’s revisions to the alcohol policy, the language
of the “two party rule” now applies to small, informal, and often
unplanned weekday gatherings, frequently called impromptus.

There are words to describe this policy. Here we elaborate on
just a few: Unfair. Paternalistic. Discriminatory. Self-defeating.
Potentially dangerous. ,

Instead of preventing an abundance of large-scale parties that
could detract from the Davidson academic experience, this policy
now bans more than two laid-back social gatherings.

_ The rule effectively shuts down the Court between weekends.

And if this policy truly reflects faculty objections to Court par-
ties, then it smacks of paternalism.

Ostensibly, it protects the purpose of a college by not allowing
late-night parties and noise to interfere with the academic process.
In reality, it interferes with the broader purpose of a college to pro-
vide an environment for young people to mature and to learn per-
sonal responsibility.

The rule also discriminates against Patterson Court houses and
their members. Independent students and other social organiza-
tions on campus can freely register and host parties at senior apart-
ments. The college does not restrict—and should not—the number
of lectures, athletic events, service events, Union-sponsored con-
certs, or any other kind of activity on this campus that rob students
of precious hours in the library. Low-key Patterson Court social-
izing should be similarly exempt.

Court houses are not often enough recognized for what they add
to the Davidson through community service, both in terms of
events and personal involvement. The houses are also terrific out-
lets to gain experience in leadership roles on campus. Weekday
socializing is for reinforcing those links of friendship that make
the service and leadership side-effects possible.

The policy is self-defeating because it confines the Court’s
social activities to weekend parties, precisely those that generate
negative perceptions of the Court and concerns about safety.

Related to safety, the policy has already encouraged off-campus
parties during the week. These carry with them risks of unsafe
levels of alcohol consumption and possibly drunk driving.

Any student or group may ask President Vagt for changes to the
Alcohol Policy between two-year review periods. Patterson Court
leaders have initiated this process. In particular, four fraternity
presidents have submitted a letter expressing their displeasure. We
add our voice to theirs.

Now is not the time for compromise. The outcome should not
be a new “target number” of gatherings during the week. Instead,
this unnecessary rule should be wholly repealed.

The Davidsonian formally requests a review of this rule.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LLX UBL ORDA LIBERTAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman
Yowl Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge -
_* Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes™

« LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Stressful environ-
ment may drive
need for counseling

I would like to write to express an
opinion on “Counseling Center usage
increases” (News, Nov. 9).

It read, “Davidson now has one of
the highest counseling center participa-
tion rates in the country.” Maybe it is
just me, but does anyone else find this
statistic to be the least bit disturbing?
Maybe it is just that more students are
arriving with pre-existing conditions,
or that Davidson students are not afraid
of getting help. But to me it seems that
maybe there is a more deeply-rooted
problem that no one seems to want to
address here. ;

At what point does Davidson College
need to take an introspective look at a
problem that exists?

I do not mean to say that visiting the
counseling center is an inherently bad

environment where students find that
nothing seems to be good enough any-
more for professors; an environment
that at times seems like the emphasis is
solely on your academic performance,
and your other gifts seem to be mini-
malized or “secondary” to your aca-
demic growth.

Therefore students are driven into the
more intier regions of their soul and
thus look towards other forms of com-
fort.

If Davidson’s purpose is “to assist -

students in developing humane
instincts and disciplined and creative
minds for lives: of leadership and serv-
ice”, then why not give students time to
explore their potential in areas other
than the classroom, or some recogni-
tion that not all students’ gifts are aca-
demics?

I do not want this to seem like I think
all of Davidson is horrible. If it were, I
would not have stayed until now. I just
want to see if the administration is at all
concemed with this matter.

Acliberal view of

liberal education

Rarely do I read a Joseph Adams dia-
tribe (“A college that has abahdoned its
cause,” Nov. 9) without shaking my fist
in (gentle) animosity, but, as a liberal, I
must concur with Adams that a liberal
arts education should open our eyes to
different views.

One should relish in the opportunity
to hear the views of another in order to
help you better understand your own!

Go see the Kennedys, the Spellings,
and the Edelmans. Heck, watch Fox
News on occasion (if not for a simple
chuckle).

Thank you, Joseph, for reminding us
of the true meaning of “liberal.”

Steven Gentile ’06

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
to the editor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of less than 250 words to

davidsonian @davidson.edu by

thing; I just mean to suggest that per-
haps Davidson should reconsider just
exactly what environment it creates: an

Graham Honeycutt ’06

Sunday night. We reserve the right
to edit for content, brevity and
grammar.

Campus freedom of speech at risk?

Davidson has experienced much
evolution throughout its history,
’ such as the admission of women ‘to
~ the student body and the transition
_ from a highly-religious to a more
’ secular institution. Throughout all
these changes, however, the
school has maintained a commit-
ment to the principle set forth in
its motto, “Let Learning Be
Cherished Where Liberty Has
Arisen.” According to this motto,
the students and faculty must first
enjoy liberty if the college is to be
a proper place of learning.

Freedom to speak is arguably the most important liberty
for the purposes of higher education, because learning can-
not occur in silence. Davidson has remained a campus where
free speech reigns, even as so many other campuses across
the country have turned away from liberty and toward polit-
ically correct authoritarianism.

Yet recent events should remind us that Davidson’s com-
mitment to freedom of speech is by no means guaranteed.
We must defend it vigilantly.

Federal law demands that all colleges and universities pro-
hibit “discriminatory harassment” on their campuses in order
to receive federal funds. But numerous colleges, many of
which are similar to Davidson in size and academics, have
expanded their anti-harassment policies from the narrow
goal of protecting students from threats and true intimidation
to the more troublesome purpose of prohibiting any kind of
speech that could possibly be seen as offensive, no matter
how unreasonably.

For example, in 2003, .the University of Maryland’s
speech code forbade students from making “idle chatter of a
sexual nature, sexual innuendoes ... and comments or ques-
tions about the sensuality of a person.” As law professor
David Bernstein observed, under this code, “saying ‘I like
your shirt, Brenda’ is a punishable instance of sexual harass-
ment.”

But there’s no chance that Davidson would ever place the
rights of certain people to feel comfortable at all times above
the rights of everyone to speak freely, right?

The first cause for worry is the faculty reaction to several
satirical articles printed in this newspaper in September..
Faculty members are certainly free to speak out against sen-
timents they find sexist or offensive-—but there’s something
strange about the arguments they used. They are frightening-
ly similar to arguments used on other campuses to justify

crash course

Marr BANDYK

. Festrictive speech codes.

Members of the faculty claimed in letters and columns that
The Yow! articles were not merely mistaken or unfunny;
they were intimidating people through the perpetuation of

misogynistic stereotypes. ;

Advocates of speech codes at other colleges have taken
this argument to its logical conclusion: if these kinds of jokes
are intitnidating, then they are forms of harassment and must
be banned. ;

This absurdly expansive view of intimidation is antitheti-
cal to the goals of a liberal arts education. The free exchange
of ideas necessary for a truly educational environment is
impossible if students cannot talk about sexuality or other
controversial topics due to fear of punishment by the .admin-
istration.

The second event that sparked my concern for the future
of Davidson was a recent discussion about pornography
organized by the student health advisors. The discussion
‘continually steered towards ideas that ‘porn is degrading and
exploitative of women, even the actresses that voluntarily
participate, that it somehow lures men into committing acts
of violence against women, and that it is so obscene that it is
exempt from the First Amendment.

I am glad that students are discussing these ideas. But
what disturbs me is that these arguments are indistinguish-
able from the talking points used by radical feminists and
Christian fundamentalists alike to advocate legislative bans
on pornographic material.

Is our college’s motto simply a
few pleasant words that look
good in brochures, or is it a
statement of values that provides
purpose to the school?

I believe it is impossible to defend the principle of free
speech while simultaneously attacking certain kinds of
speech as beyond the' pale. If free speech only means the
freedom to say or look at things that the majority approves
of, then it is truly an insignificant value. Defenders of liber-
ty must answer the accusations levied against porn if this
campus is to remain a place where all perspectives, even the
most unpopular, are respected.

Is our college’s motto simply a few pleasant words that
look good in brochures, or is it a statement of values that pro-
vides purpose to the school? Davidson may be challenged to
answer this question in the near future. The members of this
community must speak up now against the intellectual
oppression that has swept other campuses, or our college
may fail this challenge. -

Matt Bandyk is a senior political science major from
Tampa, Fl., and is co-editor of the Perspectives section.
Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu.
