8 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By WILL BYRAN
Staff Writer

Routine is a major part of life at Davidson
College. We wake up at the same time, go to
the same classes and eat the same food day
after day. So, upon leaving Chambers after a
morning class, the prospect of mixing up my
dining routine for a day seemed to be an
adventure: I decided to stop and buy an apple
from that girl who is always whistling by the
flagpole.

Her name is Liz Dover, and she is actually
trying to raise money for a semester in
French cooking schools. After being turned
down by various sources of funding on cam-
pus, Dover decided to try different approach-
es to raising money. “I have taken jobs at a
church as pianist/choir director, in tech serv-
ices, as a tutor, and selling apples/bananas,”
she said.

In all, Dover has raised $2,500 with a goal
of $4,000. Her fruit business has contributed
$300 in the last two weeks as she has now

decided to sell bananas as well as apples.
She hopes to be able to raise enough money
to be able to attend the Cordon Bleu and

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84——'05

Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

ARTS & LIVING _ weovesoax, ran 20,205
she sells scrumptious apples

study pastry making in Paris.

Contrary to a bewildering myth, however,
Dover does not actually steal apples from
Commons, but rather buys them from the
Home Economist. “They are organic and
frankly,” she said, “I think they are much
more flavorful than the apples on campus.”

Not only does Dover sell fruit in front of

Chambers, but one can also stop by her dorm
room at Belk 401 for a tasty snack or to make
a donation. Like everything else on campus,
the fruit is under the protection of the honor
code. :

Apart from her fresh fruit and cheerful
smile, Dover can also be recognized by her
distinctive whistle. “Whistling makes me
happy,” said says, “it’s kind of like singing in
the shower.” So if you haven’t been moved
by the dedication or the ingenuity of this fel-
low Davidsonian, perhaps you could just ask
her to whistle some Gershwin for you and
the memory of that impossible review will
temporarily slip your mind. But, even then,
“there is one guy on campus who says that
my whistling makes him want to kill furry
puppies. I stop when I see him. | like ani-
mals too much.”

LAW FIRM

We Are Proud To Be Your Nei ghborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

DANCE ENSEMBLE
FILLS THE HOUSE

By ARIEL BUGOSH
Staff Writer

“Davidson, a high selective independent
liberal arts college ...” “Davidson, a former
Presbyterian seminary. ...” The ongoing
trustee debate shows the conflict between the
“new” secular Davidson and the older, more
traditional Davidson. However, what does
religious life at Davidson really look like?
Outside of the politics, what are students’
experiences?

The center of Davidson religious life is the
Chaplain’s Office, which provides funding
for many different religious groups. In addi-
tion to several Christian groups, there are
Muslim, Jewish, and Interfaith opportunities.
Representatives from all organizations meet
bimonthly to discuss issues and events.

Within groups, participants attend Bible
Studies or prayer meetings edch week. Many
students also attend either the Weekly
College Worship, on Wednesday afternoons,

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D.University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson

83—'85; 88’-’97

NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president

Town of Davidson Commercial and

Other Areas of Practice

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning, Nes
Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203

Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Nextt to the Brickhouse Tavern)

North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate

Executive Council ‘03 to present.

or the Thursday Night Worship at DCPC.
Nor are events always “spiritual” in nature;
next year, groups are planning a Kickball
Tournament between all the groups on cam-
pus.

‘ Groups also sponsor speakers, such as
writer Don Miller back in March. On
Monday, the 25th, at 7:30 pm, several groups
are cosponsoring a discussion called “Race
and the Church: Divided or United by
Faith?” ‘The influential pastors from the
racially diverse Christ Central Church in
Charlotte, as well as sociology professor Dr.
Marti, will talk about issues facing the
church today.

Religious groups at Davidson try to inte-
grate spiritual growth and service, showing
that religion is not just one part of a person’s
life.

But policies and publicity only go so far.
Ultimately it comes down to the student to
consider, choose and plug into the spiritual
opportunities.

INTERESTED.
IN BEING

_ Arts & LIviING
a EDITOR ©
"NEXT SEMESTER?

EMAIL

