THE DAVIDSONIAN

septic Eo pi on ane 31 at
class series. os

Professor Rubie Watson of Harvard Uni Ses
Mao: An Impending Crisis?” on January 27 a
Visual Arts Center. Call (704) 894-2035 for in

re = s

Samantha Kerry of Duke University will speak on “Studying ats ‘mui ce
elegans: Are Humans Truly Different from Worms?” on January 27 at 4:30 p. m. iRoom.
146 of pane Science puis:

pias Rusk Lecture

Dr. Hilary Inyang, Duke Energy Distinguished Professor and Director of the Global
Institute for Energy and Environmental Systems at the University of North Carolina-
Charlotte, will speak on “Environmental Quality Aspects of Global Sustainable
Development” at 7 p.m. on January 27 in the 900 Room of the Union.

Chemistry Lecture
Corporation; hehe ini on “The New
eas at 230° Acie On Ne c

te A 8 : Bod er sNas Se: Gas

zs Michael Collins, President: and CEO of CEM
“World of Microwav, hooera a

a ETE PSE

Campus Police Blotter

1/17

Cannon Dormitory Larceny of Clothing

Person entered a room in Cannon and-removed over $500 worth in clothing.

1/20 Patterson Court Unregistered Party
Officer noticed a large gathering at PIKA. PiKA members stated that they had been try-
ing to get the people to leave since they had not registered the gathering. Officer assist-

ed them in getting people out.

1/21 Knox Dormitory Crime Prevention
Two students were found in Knox with a 6mm soft-air bb pistol that had been designed
to look like a pistol. Police officer advised students that bb guns were not allowed on

campus. Weapon has been confiscated until student has the opportunity to take it home.

1/21 Belk Dormitory Trapped Person
Police received call reporting that student was stuck in an elevator in Belk. Student was

safely removed without incident.

1/23 Patterson Court Vandalism
Small pane was found broken outside of kitchen door at Sigma Phi Epsilon. Nothing

was missing or damaged within the house.

1/23 Martin Court Intoxicated Pedestrian
Officer observed male student urinating off of second floor balcony in Jamison.

Student, who appeared to be heavily intoxicated, explained to officer that he had to go to
the bathroom.

1/23 Martin Court Fire

Fire alarm went off when a roll of paper towels was set afire in registered party in
Ryburn. Police responded to the scene. No damage was reported.

oom G10 of

By LypiE WHITE
News Writer

As of last Thursday, the Student Health
Center reported 15 diagnosed cases of the
flu. Due to a nationwide vaccine shortage,
Davidson College was forced to forgo
administering the flu vaccine to “well” peo-
ple this past fall, leaving more people at risk
for the flu.

Normally, the Health Center offers a flu
vaccine clinic between mid-October
and mid-November, and for the past eight to
10 years has offered 500 to 550 shots. In
addition, some students get the shots from
their physician at home. Generally, around a
third of the students are protected.

Many other viral upper respiratory illness-
es are being reported due to the winter sea-
son. The classroom and dormitory settings
are conducive to the spreading of these ill-
nesses, as well.

“A lot of people confuse other viral respi-
ratory illnesses and gastrointestinal illnesses
with the flu,” said Health Facility Supervisor
Jan Poole. “The flu is a viral respiratory ill-
ness, but rather than a gradual onset there is
a rapid onset of chills, fatigue, headache,
muscle aches and a high fever [102-104
degrees],” she said.

Poole said that a dry cough, runny nose
and scratchy throat are also typical symp-
toms. "

The fever and Acute symptoms usually
decrease within five to six days, but the res-
piratory symptoms, fatigue, and a decreased
appetite may remain for two weeks or more.

A person with the flu may be contagious
one to three days before the start of symp-
toms and five days after the illness begins.

Besides avoiding the classroom setting
and close contact with others, anyone with
the flu can help protect others by covering
his or her mouth and nose with a tissue when
coughing or sneezing, then promptly dispos-
ing of tissues and washing hands.

“When someone at the Health Center has a
positive flu test, we are asking for their
roommate’s name and ... [for the names of]
anyone else that has had an intimate expo-
sure, boyfriend, girlfriend or anyone they
know [who] has been drinking after them or

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

Flu spreads through school

Vaccine shortage leads to increased susceptibility

otherwise had a very close exposure within
the last.day or two. We then try to contact
those persons and offer them a prescription
for seven days worth of a medication that
can help keep them from getting the flu,”
Poole said.

In addition to the prescription, there are
other precautions that are beneficial in stay-
ing healthy. These precautions include fre-
quent hand-washing or the use of hand sani-
tizers.

Viruses can remain active several hours on
inanimate objects that many people come in
contact with, such as doorknobs or tele-
phones.

Healthy behavior, such as getting adequate
sleep and eating well, are helpful in warding
off sickness.

Finally, an obvious way of avoiding the flu
is to stay away from people who are cough-
ing, sneezing, or are visibly ill.

“Dean Shandley did let the professors
know via e-mail Tuesday morning that the
health center is seeing flu cases and that stu-
dents with the flu have been told not to
attend class as long as they are running
fever,” Poole said.

Dean Shandley also let faculty know that
the flu can leave its victim fatigued for a
week or two even after the acute illness sub-
sides.

“Pivio by mate OD

Washing one’s hands will help reduce
the chances of getting the flu.

CoHo, continued from page 1

project, such as Connor’s Breast Cancer
Dinner or Sigma Phi Epsilon’s Turkey Trot,
which will get both the house and the cam-
pus excited.

Stereotypes have also hurt the image of the
eating house.

“TI believe that one of our biggest problems
has been our image. Ever since I joined,
there have been some common misconcep-
tions about CoHo. It has been seen through
an extremely lame stereotype,” said CoHo
member John Geer ’05.

“CoHo has a certain reputation, and that
deters people,” said Kristen Kavanagh ’06.
“We offer something unique to the court. The
administration should be aware of that. The
college works hard to provide something for
everyone...CoHo provides another option. It
would not be good if we went under.”

Although CoHo contends that it will be

staying .at Davidson next semester, the
administration’s response towards the finan-
cial and social problems of the eating house
has been mixed.

Last semester, conflict arose over the pres-

ence of a box on the women’s court selection
form that said, “I want to join ONLY an all-
women’s eating house.”

CoHo asked the administration to remove
the option from the form with the belief that
the presence of that choice singled the eating
house out among the others; the administra-
tion refused

“It is my understanding that the box was
placed on the Court Selection forms because
the committee did not want to force anyone

into a co-ed eating house. We are not sure of
any statistics on how many girls actually
check that box, but we do often wonder if it
may have an affect on our luck in the lottery
system,” Groves said.

Former CoHo president Bekah Diehl ’05
and Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm
refused to comment on the option, but
Hamm said that Patterson Court backs
CoHo’s efforts to remain on campus.

“We are not trying to close the door on
CoHo; its membership at Davidson is very
valuable and its presence adds a different
aspect to Patterson Court,” Hamm said. “We
want to support them, and we have talked
about strategies, trying to find ways in which
to improve their situation, but it must be
mostly an internal correction.”

According to President Bobby Vagt, “The
issue here is not money ... as difficult as it is
for us to take, no one wants to join a co-ed
eating house. At this moment, that is not the
experience people are looking for,” he said.

Although she inherited many difficulties
as the new president, Groves refuses to give
up.

“A big part of our plan is to truly define
what CoHo is and let people know it,” she
said.

“T think we are on the right path to figur-
ing out where we want to take it from here.
It will take a lot of work and a ton of deter-
mination, but I know that CoHo will perse-
vere. We want to be the co-ed house that sur-
vives.”

CoHo currently has 22 members, includ-
ing three freshmen. 11 of its members are
seniors.
