16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 7, 2005

WILL BRYAN

kets and no team built a lead greater than four points at

Th, ee ee” Pes ee ee ne
’Cats upset St. Joe’s, UMass; lose in 20T at UNC-C

Staff Writer

In recent years, the “Cardiac ’Cats” has been the
moniker of the Carolina Panthers in the Charlotte area.
This year, it seems that title would be more fitting to the
other ’Cats’ téam just miles up I-77. The men’s basketball
team has started the 2005-2006 season with a 3-2 record
after two straight close victories over Massachusetts and
St. Joseph’s, a double overtime thriller in Charlotte, and
a 33-point thumping last weekend at Appalachian State.
Their first game of the season was.a loss‘at the hands of
the top team in the country, the Duke Blue Devils.

Despite allowing Duke to finish both halves on-runs of
16-6 and 19-8, respectively, Davidson showed that they
were able to body down against the best shooter and
defensive players in the country. Ian Johnson ’06 man-
aged to score 19 points despite the presence of Duke’s
Shelden. Williams, who ended the game with nine blocks,
while Brendan Winters ’06 contributed 17 points.

Davidson played well in the first half as they were able
to cut Duke’s lead to five with just over five minutes
remaining after a 10-4 run that was capped off by a
jumper from Johnson.

Duke was determined, however, not to allow the ’Cats
to keep pace as their defense kept the Wildcats half-court
offense on its heels while their outside shooting contin-
ued to widen the gap. Although the score didn’t reflect it,
the Cats came away Cameron Indoor Stadium a more
disciplined team.

That newfound experience was put to the test immedi-

any one time.

Things began to look bleak for Davidson after UMass
went on a 11-0 run with under 10 minutes to play in the
second half. Davidson seemed unable to generate any
offense, and they were stuck with a deficit of 60-50 with
six minutes to play in the game.

At this point, the Wildcats looked to their defense to
create offense. Accelerated by steals from Matt McKillop
°06, a block by Andrew Lovedale ’09, and strong
rebounding from Johnson, Davidson began hitting out-
side shots and forcing the Minutemen to extend their
defense.

The play of the game came when McKillop shot a
three-pointer from the corner with four minutes to go. As
the ball rippled the nets, a whistle blew, signifying a foul
on the shot and the chance for a four-point play. Belk
Arena was electric. After a UMass three with a little over
a minute to play, Davidson was still down by four points.
McKillop quickly answered with another three of his
own.

After a defensive stop, Kenny Grant ’06 found Thomas
Sander ’08 open under the basket to put in the go-ahead
lay-up. The game wasn’t sealed, however, until two more
Winters free throws and a blocked desperation shot sent
the Minuteman packing and took the Wildcat faithful out
of the trauma unit.

The drama for the ’Cats continued less than a week
later when Davidson hosted the St. Joseph’s Hawks.
Despite the Thanksgiving Break, many Davidson fans
and a few students made it out to the game to cheer on

ately as Davidson hosted the University of
Massachussetts last Tuesday night. The first half of the
game seemed an absolute stalemate as teams traded bas-

their Wildcats.

See Basketball page 14

Sander ’08 had 10 rebounds and made six of seven shots
for 13 points in the ’Cats 81-85 (20T) loss at Charlotte.

Oglethorpe still lone win for struggling Wildcats

SO 8008
ao A

Oglethorpe.

SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writer

After defeating Belmont Abbey 78-44 in their exhibition
game, the women’s basketball team has only won one game
of four to begin their season.

Davidson started with an away loss to the nation’s No. 7
team, the Tarheels of North Carolina. The unfriendly con-
fines of Carmichael Stadium proved too much for the ’Cats,
and there they were defeated in an 86-48 loss.

For the first 24 minutes of the game, the ’Cats stayed close
to the Tarheels and North Carolina never gained a larger
advantage than 14 points. Davidson pulled within six points
of the Tarheels in what was to be the closest point differen-
tial for the rest of the evening with less than eight minutes
remaining in the half.

The last three minutes, however, featured a struggling
Davidson team that committed three turnovers and a total of
eight shots. The ’Cats sunk only 10 of the 34 shot attempts
for a field goal percentage of 29.4 percent, a number that
cannot hold up to North Carolina’s 51.3 percent.

Coming out of the break ahead 48-24, the Tarheels contin-
ued their scoring trend. The Wildcats could not stop North
Carolina guard Ivory Latta, who finished first on her team
with 20 points. Latta dropped in two three-pointers and a
jumper in just six minutes to bring her team up 63-28.

In 10 attempts, the Wildcats could not score a single three-
pointer in the second half. Janell Crayton ’06 led the ’Cats
with 13 points while Brynn Kelly ’07 got a career-high 10
rebounds to bring Davidson to a total of 46, just two less than
the Tarheels.

Following Thanksgiving Break, Davidson faced Wake
Forest in their first home game of the season that ended in an
exciting but disappointing overtime loss, 87-84. Led by
Jessica Mitchell ’07 and Crayton in scoring with 23 and 22
points, respectively, the Wildcats matched the Demon
Deacons step for step and led for most of the game by a nar-
row margin.

The ’Cats nailed 70.8 percent of their field goals in the
first half and hit nine of 15. three-pointers for the night. Wake
Forest also sunk several threes, including four in a row just
before the halftime break. ’

The final minutes of the game featured three lead changes.
Davidson relinquished the lead with just over three minutes
to play but regained it soon after only to let the Demon
Deacons tie it up with a free throw with 37 seconds left.

After taking the lead in the overtime period, Davidson
could not find the net and missed all of four attempts from
the field. Wake Forest used this to their advantage and went
on a 7-1 run from which the Wildcats could not recover.

The team was within three points, but Davidson guard
Mitchell could not sink a three-point shot and the ’Cats were
defeated.

Davidson’s first win of the season came three days later on

‘Nov. 29 after taking on Oglethorpe 95-39. Every Wildcat

netted at least one basket;, and the game was Davidson’s
highest scoring since the 2001-02 season.

The Wildcats surged in an early lead, and they put up 22
points to Oglethorpe’s three in under 10 minutes. At half-
time, Davidson left the court with an impressive 32-point

See Women’s Basketball,

Player of the

lan Johnson ‘06

Week

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Thomas Sander’s lay-up

Basketball
Hometown: Ruckersville, Virginia.

Major: Pyschology A Matt McKillop ‘o6 three brought the ‘Cats to within

one point against Massachusetts. Then Sander ‘o8
completed the comeback with a lay-up to give the
team a 6463 lead and the win. Sander had six points
and eight rebounds.

‘Starting with a 19 point effort and a dunk over Sheldon
Williams at Duke, Johnson has been a force down low in the
‘Cats first five games. He led the team in three of those five

games and was named Socon Player of the Week.

