10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
AvuGusT 31, 2005

Staff Editorial

We’re towntes too

When you first visited Davidson College, what did you expect
of the town?

Davidson promises a close-knit community, seemingly worlds
apart from Charlotte suburbs with a genuine smiall- town feel that
is becoming harder to find.

Yet for most of us, this corner of Mecklenburg County is often
defined by a fleeting encounter, whether zipping down Griffith
Street in our cars or simply zipping through our four years here.
It is hard to feel that we, as Davidson College students, also have
a stake as residents of Davidson, the town.

Nothing could be farther from the truth.

Davidson changes every year in ways that profoundly impact
the student experience. Unfortunately, by the time students learn
about the issues many decisions have already been made. And
while decisions that are being made now may not affect us this
semester or the next, first-year students could feel the repercus-
sions in their future years at Davidson.

Rising property values might lead new professors to live in a
cheaper town, lengthening commutes and diminishing their abil-
ity to be more involved in campus life. Members of our commu-
nity on fixed, relatively low-incomes might be squeezed out by
those same changes, altering important parts of our College com-
munity, like the Ada Jenkins Community Center.

A new subdivision approved more than two years ago will
soon be built off of N.C. 73, out Concord Road. It so happens
that a pond in the area has proven invaluable to the research
efforts of Biology professors and their student researchers. What
other ecologically important areas are threatened by develop-
ment?

Davidson is coordinating with other Mecklenburg cities for a
light rail line that will begin construction and service in a few
years. For efficient service, some street crossings will need to be
closed. What will the planned closing of the Delburg Street rail
crossing near the Brickhouse mean for students living at the
Depot Apartments or on Armour Street? What will a proposed
extension of Concord Road through downtown to the rail tracks
mean for the quaint atmosphere on Main Street?

This semester, we will investigate these issues in our news
pages. We will ask town council candidates for their views and
explore what the future of the town of Davidson will mean for
the College’s future. In return, we want you to become informed
and to take a role in shaping a student-friendly town for future
classes.

And register to vote.

It’s easy. Just go to the town library and ask how —at least 30
days before the November election this year. Depending on the
law back home, you ought to be able to re-establish your residen-
cy there by the time of the 2006 congressional elections.

It’s too easy to see ourselves solely as members of a college
community. Let’s stop zipping around and start acting as mem-
bers of the Davidson town community.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORLA LIBLEKLAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Sara Sams & Reid Wildman
Yowl Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

Alcohol policy: Provoke or Prevent?

This year Davidson has upped
the ante in punishment for alcohol
violations. The new policy doubles
the fine to $50 for under-aged stu-
dents caught red-handed. It also
places the host(s) of drinking
games or gatherings (including the
roommate even: if s/he is not pres-
ent at the time of the offense) on
social probation for the first
| offense and kicks host(s) (and
M8 roommate, even if not guilty) out
of campus housing for a second
offense.

Though an admirable attempt to
keep students safe, I fear that the new policies will not so
much discourage drinking as encourage sneaky binging—
dangerous rapid consumption of beer as well as the hard stuff
that gets the job done quick. Dragging the possibly innocent
roommate kicking and screaming into the punishment will
only lead to more bitterness against the new policy and its
enforcers and encourage more rebellion—off campus.

The new policies might scare first-year students into sub-
mission, but compliance of older students will depend upon
enforcement. Will doors be knocked on? Will hall coun-
selors, RAs, and campus police actively seek out violators, or
will only blatant offenders be punished? Will students turn
each other in? Probably not. We will have to wait and see
how effective this new policy is, but I think if past behavior

baxter’s banter

CAREY BAXTER

‘is any indication of our intentions, something drastic will

have to be done to stop dangerous underage drinking on cam-
pus. .

Respect for the law is fragile at its conception and
strengthened only over time by parents and positive societal
influence. It is very easily chipped, cracked, or broken by a
few thoughtless words or actions.

But the fact that drinking is so embedded in college culture
can in part be blamed on the law, which permitted 18 year-
olds to imbibe until 1984 and then revoked the privilege (in
response to a rise in fatal drunk driving accidents for 18 to 20
year-olds, the government threatened to revoke federal high-

way funding for states that did not comply with a 21 year-old
drinking age), essentially declaring 18, 19, and 20 year-olds
too immature to drink responsibly.

We can smoke cigarettes, drive, vote, marry, and fight in
military, but drink alcoholic beverages? Hell no. Has this
changed our behavior considerably? Hell no. Most college
students drink. They have in the past, they do now, and they
will continue to do so for many years into the future.

Not that alcohol is much safer than more taboo illegal
drugs. But as socially acceptable as it is to deny young adults
the right to drink, such a decision basically declares our
immaturity for us. We resent this, and we act accordingly,
and oftentimes stupidly.

In his book “Binge: Campus Life in an Age of
Disconnection and Excess,” Barrett Seaman points out the |
parallel between the present attitude of young adults toward
alcohol and the attitude of Americans during Prohibition,
when being drunk was a statement of freedom. Today, says
Seaman, alcohol restrictions have “artificially imbued drink-
ing with a mystical quality-the last tile that completes the
puzzle we call adulthood.”

In trying to protect us from ourselves, alcohol restrictions
in general inadvertently cause us to inflict ourselves with
unnecessary illness and harm (not that we wouldn’t do it oth-
erwise, but I think restrictions encourage rebellion). Ideally,
rather than trying to prevent drinking, colleges would foster
a more responsible drinking community, say, by allowing
beer but not hard liquor for drinking games or by placing
limits on alcohol availability at parties. Allowing students to
drink openly in front of older adults, especially professors
and parents, would quickly temper our greedy thirsts. If we
only see others drinking with abandon, how can we but do
otherwise?

Of course we are going to drink to feel the effects, but usu-
ally we over-do it. As Seaman warns, “Many students never
see how alcohol is supposed to be handled; they never learn
that it is not only possible but proper to have one or two
drinks and then stop. And so they don’t.”

Carey Baxter is a sophomore English major from Monkton,
Mad. Contact her at cabaxter @davidson.edu.

Confidentiality in the Supreme Court.

If one were to examine Judge
John Roberts’s background, one
might dismiss his confirmation to
the Supreme Court as a mere for-
mality. In 1976, he graduated
Harvard summa cum laude and
three years later he graduated
from Harvard Law School magna
cum laude. And that was only the
_ beginning. Since then, his career

& has been nothing short of extraor-
dinary.

According to CNN, Roberts
clerked for Justice William
Rehnquist, argued 39 cases before
the Supreme Court, acted as deputy solicitor general under
President George H.W. Bush, and most recently served on
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia.
When the Senate approved his appointment to the Court of
Appeals in 2003, it was by a vast majority.

Moreover, as President Bush pointed out, at that time, a
politically diverse group of over 150 lawyers sent a letter to
the Senate arguing for Roberts’s confirmation. With such a
phenomenal career, why are we hearing charged rhetoric
against his appointment? ;

Part of it has to be political. The Democrats, principally
the Left Wing, have sworn for years that they would fight
President Bush’s Supreme Court nominee tooth and nail,
regardless of who he nominated.

Indeed, the very night Bush declared that Roberts would
be his choice to replace Sandra Day O’Connor, one pundit
predicted the battle over the confirmation would cost
upwards of $100 million.

- For some, however, the issue is more than political.
Certain individuals and organizations, both conservative and:
liberal, are very concerned about Roberts’s stance on a range
of social issues. As a result, a minority of senators has made
it known that they intend to ask Roberts his opinion on con-
troversial issues such as abortion.

Others, such as Senator Feinstein of California have out-
right declared that Supreme Court nominees’ views should
be “mainstream and considered.” That sounds fine, but the
problem is the Senate is not there to make inquiries into

the resident hall

MATT HAL

Roberts’s political leanings, they are there to determine
whether he is a judicious and appropriate appointee.

John Roberts’s political leanings are not the chief issue. As
long as the nominee’s political views are not indicative of a
demented mind, the Senate should not consider his political
opinions.

What is more, asking the nominee his opinions-can have
detrimental consequences. If the nominee were to offer his
opinions on, for instance, Roe vs. Wade, he might be
required to recuse himself as a justice.

It was out of concern for this that now-justice Ruth Bader
Ginsberg refused to answer questions at her confirmation’
hearing. As Fox News contributor Liza Porteus remarked,
the “Ginsburg” rule “refers to how a judicial nominee can
choose’ not to answer questions that may hint at how he or

A nominee’s right to reserve
his opinion is a time honored
tradition

she would rule on a future case.”

A nominee’s right to reserve his opinion is a time-honored
tradition that grants him the freedom to rule on the many
diverse cases that come before him.

In Article II, Section 2, of the Constitution of the United
States it reads, “and he [the President] shall nominate, and by
and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate, shall appoint
... Judges of the Supreme Court.” It is all about “Advice” and
“Consent.”

What is at issue during the confirmation process is whether
the President nominated an individual worthy of serving in
one of our most sacred positions in government. We are not
looking for a representative or a politician, a person who rep-
resents our views; rather, we are looking for an impartial and
judicious individual who will hear cases, consider argu-
ments, and make the best decisions based on the evidence. If,
during the hearing, John Roberts appears to fit that descrip-
tion, there is absolutely no reason to hinder his confirmation.

Matt Hall is a senior history major from Benringion, | Vt.
Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu.
