THE DAVIDSONIAN

oy SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005

13

New lifting coach an inspiration to athletes

By IAN JOHNSON
Guest Contributor

Ask Evan Simon if he’s liberal or conser-

vative, and he’ll probably tell you how your
political ideology can affect your bench press
max.
_ Ask him if he’s seen “Wedding Crashers,”
and he’ll probably bring up how reading
celebrity magazines can improve your form
on tricep extensions.

Ask him about the workout video he’s in
wearing old-school Chuck Taylors and span-
dex, and he’ Il probably just laugh.

You may not know the definition of a
reverse lumbar pull, but by the time you fin-
ish reading this, you’ll know that Davidson’s
head strength and conditioning coach Evan
Simon does, in addition to hundreds of other
lifts and techniques that are making
Davidson’s athletes quicker and stronger
every day.

“T loved athletics,” Simon said. “Being a
strength coach seemed like the perfect fit for
me. All I needed was the opportunity.”

He’s giving student-athletes here an oppor-
tunity, too: the chance to not only show up
three afternoons a week and lift weights, but
to inject themselves with weightlifting les-
sons and knowledge that they can carry with
them long after the buzzer sounds on the
playing field.

Weightlifting seems to seep into all aspects
of his life. As I entered his office to conduct
this interview, Simon doused his hands with
lifting chalk and blasted “Hatebreed,” his
favorite inspirational lifting band, on the
stereo. After doing a few quick stretches, he
finally sat down and faced me.

“Ok, now I’m ready.”

He may not be that extreme, but his pres-

15% OFF

WITH DAVIDSON CATCARD
OR THIS COUPON !

OR, DELIVERY AVAILABLE
DAILY SPECIALS!

Za" www. furnaplzza.com

¢e FRESH HOMEMADE

¢ HAND TOSSED PIZZAS

ence is being felt, especially in opponent’s
aches and pains after games.
After arriving last November after almost
three years as a paid intern at the University
* of Kentucky, he now has the brand sparkling
new Doe Weight Room under the football
bleachers to compliment his passion, dream,
and effort.

Photo courtesy@fColle x
Evan Simon, the new strength coach

C onununicatrons

“My goals for the all the athletic teams
here under myself and my assistant is for our
athletes to see strength and power gains,
enjoy what they’re doing, and have all the
athletes and coaches use our strength and
conditioning program as a selling point,” he
said.

So far the response has been tremendous,
enough so that he can’t go a week without a
call from a cop asking for cardio advice.

“Coach Simon is a wonderful addition to
Davidson Athletics,” field hockey coach Lisa

(704) 655-4444

18059-8 W. Catawha Ave. « Cornelius, NC

BUFFALO WINGS

DOUGH & SAUCE

Thompson said. “He possesses a great
knowledge regarding peak performance and
sport-specific training. He also has a great
way with the athletes. It’s a great balance of
intensity and compassion for each and every
student-athlete.”

This past summer Simon would often
arrive at Baker before 6 a.m. and not leave
until after 7 p.m., lifting with various athletes
at different times of the day, his energy never
wavering.

Basketball player Matt Mckillop ’06 raves
that Coach Simon “knows no boundaries
when it comes to helping athletes.”

Have I mentioned that Coach Simon has
squatted 600 pounds, bench pressed 440
pounds, and dead lifted 550 pounds?

“I’m proud that all the exercises I prescribe
for my athletes I perform in my own training
as well,” he said.

Short, big, and muscular, Coach Simon is
what you’d expect in an image of a strength
coach. Together with the muscle shirts and
extensive lifting knowledge, his favorite
movie is “The Rock” and his favorite Sunday
pastime is bicep curls.

When asked if he has a soft side at all, he
said, “I know I have one, but I’m not really
sure what it is.”

But Simon is not all muscle and grit.

He recently became engaged to his girl-
friend of more than eight years (his favorite
date: a nice dinner, a little dancing, capped
off by a 20-minute Boflex workout) and likes
to kick back to some softer groups like the
Dave Mathews Band or the Barenaked
Ladies.

Ok, so Evan Simon may have somewhat of
a soft side, but if you dare to challenge him,
he'll see you in the weight room.

He’ll have the lifting chalk ready.

“sn “impressive aight for the outside
linebacker as he also recorded seven
tackles, ‘one for loss and a sack.

The Wildcat defense “*hawked the

ball” all night long. Defensive back

Jeffrey Scott ’08. and. outside line-

backer Niel Andrew ’06 also record-

ed interceptions for. the defense, and
helped break Davidson’s intercep-

tion record.

“The defense, particularly the
ATC; made the most of our opportu-
nities,” said FitzGerald.

Junior kicker Brad Smith ’07
tacked on a 33 yard field goal with
8:30 left in the fourth quarter and
Gréensboro managed to get on the
board with a touchdown with only
four minutes left in the game. When
the final whistle blew, the ’Cats left
the field with a 32-7 victory.

The win was a first for Coach
Tripp Merritt at Davidson and broke
the four game losing streak of the
*Cats dating back to last season. The
next game will be this Saturday night
at 7:00 p.m. when Lenoir-Rhyne
comes to Richardson Stadium for a
non-conference clash.

Win*25,000

for grad school!

LAW © BUSINESS + GRADUATE + MEDICAL + DENTAL

¢ FRESH SALADS

¢ OVER 20 VARIATIONS
OF BREADSTICKS

r Lowin thc a You In...
And Pays Your Way Swcepstases!

One lucky person will win $25,000 toward the first year
of law, business, graduate, medical or dental school.

To enter, vist kaptest.com/25k by October 31, 2005.

WS PLRCOGRE AOCEUAAS) H OUD 04 WL 8 Bienes WEL Oe
ORGAN VRE CHOKE CO WHER. VED WOEPE POCO TED, nes oF
CURD URN POUT OGD (cee © eae Heer) vt & bet Ven oe
re Perret of Laren ta Utes Kags ot [atote pretetng the lepers
Cette) ard seater meg Dh ELCES] Vln & Gree cee
eteteeen whe oe mighters LA) pees of age oe oti ct be Gee ol rey
A Be ee
et att fet oo Reet te eel eet Debuts HPO ee ate
Bete 4 oe @ Me cigs Aretrtre @ Me Se Pe fey ete Me
Remmeneen LAS Cee we om sores od ew eben bl mel eed
ne eee
ieee ghee (WARE, HA ated Oe OO Ree me
cece, wee 8s epee (Oe Get see ¢ for cen oe
from per em EL. lem Oger re orem whe wt
at Od ars FF © RegOnl ome Rategnisins wb etry + tb ShRIEERE
repel eeeinge be Wage bee View tnt Pan Yew Ae” lemophaen,
14@) Siete 5 Mer We fo See We IIE Pee of ree
CA.) AS terme Oe pew Hn 8 6 14 EN o (eter gute

1-800-KAP-TEST
wees De o meting CR pEEE Om Nel Rertet w Phe et ten Mecend Othe kaptest.com/25k

PTW 00d OA ANE WR pte Geen e ber Ue fond GEES RtERAE mem le er Fe pe Pe teqaten # an rumen er Aine rR
Re a ea A eT Bs ad ipa Te LRN ININ Clad Daten Fp Oe 000 WH Wh eicete Rain CF Ne ae Fagen, Pe oie,
PRT os Ne ee Vaartgiting (her, 144) Create, oe Ftc, See Fem Som Pom 18

or.

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad
"Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come
soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the expenence.
Wie offer personalized attention from start to finish.

KAPLAN

Test Prep and Admissions

¢ Summer, semester and yearlong programs

¢ Wide range of academic courses ¢ Internships

* Language courses at all levels © Fleld trips and tours

© Small dasses ¢ University credit * Scholarships * Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.
Visit usac.une.edu for exact dates and locations.

USACE

‘sour ¢ mang > sere

bans ees

ine cata
SO

%

