THE DAVIDSONIAN

feliav’e eoikel Diversity is a big buzz word
ic Lo ( e .
here at Davidson. Everyone on

campus says it is important. Most
say they appreciate it. Some say
we need more of it. Few work to
bring about that change. Very few
_ seem to make it a top priority.
Looking around this campus, you
| are going to see a lot of familiar
faces; not just because the school
is so small, but also because we are
a pretty homogeneous bunch. A lot
of us come from the same parts of
the world, the same social back-
ground and the same economic
level. So I think it would be safe to say that the Davidson
community should not be taking any steps to further reduce
the range of types of people we have on our campus.
Taking away sub-free dorms would be doing just that. Sub-
free represents a more alternative option to college living:
one that hypothetically cuts out the drugs and alcohol, which,
for some, make the college years “the best years of their
lives.” It is also a system prone to abuse: a lot of students
sign up for sub-free dormitories who use alcohol and drugs
and are only looking for cleaner housing in better locations.

HALLEY AKLION

Sub-free is a legitimate way of living

PERSPECTIVES

But for every case of misuse of the system, there is a student
legitimately looking to avoid the sometimes tragic accidents
which come with alcohol and drugs.

Doesn’t the college owe it to them to allow them to make
that decision and live the way they want to live? Even if it is
not the “average” college life? Being different doesn’t have
to be defined by visible signs like skin color or ethnic back-
ground; it can just as legitimately be lifestyle choices.

If it eliminated this choice, Davidson would further narrow,

the types of people who will become interested in attending
the college. Why come to a school where you cannot feel
comfortable living in the place you call home? For some,
their adequate comfort level can only be reached in an envi-
ronment without the disturbance that comes with inebriated
and/or drugged up kids looking to make trouble every Friday
and Saturday night. That’s a legitimate concern.

I think the removal of sub-free dormitories would be a big
mistake for the college administration to make. To ensure
Davidson is a place that remains attractive to the widest array
of people, sub-free living should remain an option. It’s a sys-
tem with its faults, but it’s also a way of life that people
appreciate and choose to stick with. Why take that away?

Halley Aelion is a freshman from’Bowie, MD. Contact her
at haaelion@ davidson.edu.

Sub-free only hinders social interaction

; What is the purpose of sub-free
housing? During my time at
Davidson, I have yet to find a sat-
isfying response to this question.
The administration has decisively
tottered toward insinuations at
possible remedial action. The self-
evident must be confronted: Were
substance-free housing to be elim-
inated, sub-free students would
probably lose very little, and they
could even gain a great deal.

In the interests of respect for
autonomy, one must necessarily
approach propositions that seek to
take away individual choice with suspicion. Fortunately, the
sub-free controversy does not compel those ensconced in the
adversarial camp to appeal to any supposed common good.

The choice to divorce oneself from the intoxicated misad-
ventures of one’s peers is a phantom problem. Students who
live outside the sub-free borders rarely significantly disrupt
the routines of their teetotaler hall comrades. Invariably, non-
sub-free halls host a wide range of libationary preferences,
from the affection of hulking athletes for the comforts of

ASHISH GEORGE

Captain Morgan to the church-going A-student’s worship of
soft drinks for sweet motivation during the enervating hours
of the early morning. In other words, the non-sub-free hall is
inherently pluralistic. With diverse lifestyles come diverse
interactions, and it is the exertion of free choice in these rela-
tionships that gives rise to a spontaneous order that endows
each person with an appreciation for a dynamic to which he
or she has contributed. Sub-free housing errs by imposing an
order on students even before they reach campus.

The sub-free student is predisposed toward a great many
difficulties. Many of those in sub-free housing still go out
and drink, which often produces a rift back on the hall as the
inebriated ‘meet the opprobrium of their more judgmental
hallmates. With less hall diversity, sub-free living reinforces
and occasionally even encourages seclusion.

It is often posited that the admissions office would suffer
with the abolition of sub-free. If prospective students eager-
ly espy Davidson, only to be repelled solely by the lack of a
sterile dorm environment within which they can nurture their
studies, perhaps the boon of their scholarship is an honor
Davidson’s student body can do without.

Ashish George is a sophomore from Greensboro, NC.
Contact him at asgeorge @ davidson.edu.

Creationism: mistaking opinion for fact?

By JoE TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

Before the synth-fueled electrocrashes crescendo into a
danceable tantrum, a melodic voice breaks through the dis-
tortion and delivers the most memorable opening line in the
history of music: “In the beginning, there was semen.”

With one inventive statement the macabre band “The
Faint” capture the nature of the recent debates surrounding
evolution in the classroom. The media is splattered with sto-
ries about iiber-conservatives who demand that their local
school districts require alternatives to or replacements for
evolution. In Georgia, for example, some districts have
incorporated the concept of intelligent design into the biolog-
ical curriculum while other schools in Pennsylvania and
Texas have slapped disclaimer stickers on all science text-
books: “This textbook contains material on evolution.”

Can someone explain why evolution must be approached
as if it were a form of radioactive waste? Apparently the
insurmountable evidence in favor of evolution and natural
selection, which has accumulated since 1858 when Charles

-Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace first presented their
hypotheses, rests upon the earth like a pile of enriched urani-
um for those who interpret the Bible too literally.

Unless legitimate criticisms of evolution can be support-
ed by empirical data or objective evidence, then they have
absolutely no place in the scientific classroom. Creationists
cannot look at life on earth, shake their collective head and
decide that it is too complex to have’ not been designed by
some immaterial blob of divinity. The philosophical term
that describes this approach, in which a person has no evi-
dence or facts and thus inyents a hypothesis unable to be test-
ed, is referred to as the burden of misplaced proof or an

appeal to ignorance.

Ironically, though, those who take a creationist perspective
fail to recognize that religion is nothing but a personal belief.
In fact, that is what most people enjoy about it; there is no
need to vindicate it because it is a personal choice, and to
cram it in as a scientific theory is to miss the purported point
of it in the first place. There is no objective truth that sets one
religion above another, nor are there any facts to solidify a
specific interpretation as more correct than the others.
Religion is an interpretation, not a choice or provable fact.
Personally, I abhor religion and often sound like the

. Antichrist because I think that religion is disadvantageous

for humanity, but I recognize that people are free to choose
to believe in it as they wish. This does not mean, however,
that creationists should be able to bring their Harper-Collins
Study Bible to biology class with them in order to combat
evolution with unfounded speculations, wishes, and stories.

Even the thought that some religious conservatives would
attempt to enforce creationism in biology makes me want to
walk into oncoming traffic. This is not about my personal
problems with religion; this is about religious extremists and
their closed-minded fear of anything that contradicts their
own overzealous ambitions. Science does not have to oppose
religion. In fact, the closing line to “The Faint” song illus-
trates that the two disciplines can accurately portray the same
phenomenon but for drastically different purposes. The “mir-
acle” of birth, for example, can be described in terms of
divinity and abstract ideas as well as in terms of semen and
scientific facts: “I should have noticed the beauty/and not
how it hurt/wet like a cherry/in the bloodbath of birth.”

* Joe Taylor is a junior neuroscience major from Poland, OH.

Contact him at jotaylor@ davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, FEBUARY 2, 2005 11

More conservative
professors needed

Davidson College has a prob-
lem. That’s not quite accurate,
however; this macro-issue is the
result of many micro-issues. We
are a campus much like the
Roman god Janus, a head with
two faces opposed, eyes never
meeting. With all of the debates
on our campus, we lack a sus-
- tained dialogue between stu-
§ dents and a true embrace of our
diversity. In this age of ever-
increasing connectivity,
Davidson students are growing
further apart.

Currently, we tread cautiously over numerous fault lines
that divide liberal and conservative, Greek and sub-free, gen-
tile and Jew, agnostic and Young Life leader ... and I can
think of many more divides. In the interest of creating a dia-
logue on campus, I have decided to. write a series of
columns—sometimes contentious—that explore solutions to
these problems and ask for suggestions.

This series is a work in progress, so I greatly appreciate
any input you have to give.

I would like to start by addressing a problem of scarcity
that affects most American universities — the lack of conser-
vative professors.

There is a horrible misconception that either conservatives
have nothing to give to academia, or that the majority of
would-be conservative professors are too greedy to pursue a
career with more esoteric rewards that financial ones.

A more likely explanation is that conservatives avoid an
academic career because they see it as an uphill battle.
Becoming tenured is a daunting process that requires
immense support from your peers, something that conceiv-
ably is in short supply if you are a lone John Locke amongst
Michael Moores.

the sprinkle room

SAM SPENCER

“the conservative view was not
represented, turning the program
into a liberal echo chamber.”’

In any case, the fact that liberals greatly outnumber con-
servatives in teaching positions asks an important question:
where have they all gone? Recent surveys put the ratio at
nine or more Democrats for every Republican.

Though Davidson does not have as bad a problem as some
other liberal arts schools, we stilt have far more liberal teach-
ers than conservative ones. Additionally, while most profes-
sors in the Political Science department are very mindful of
the problem (so much so that they occasionally lean a little
right to be on the safe side), other departments seem to be
less mindful.

One personal anecdote I have was my experience in a
Davidson program I’ll refer to only as “The Human Fund.”
While I was in THF, much of the instruction I received was
based on unquestioned liberal premises. While I agreed with
many of the premises, I was bothered by the fact that the con-
servative view was not represented, turning the program into
a liberal echo chamber. When I started to play devil’s advo-
cate and give a voice to the conservative position, I was mis-
understood, which led to conflict between myself and one of
the program’s leaders. For the conservatives in the program
who could not speak up, it must have been overwhelming.

Conservatives who come to Davidson should not be
expected to face a monolithic Versailles of liberalism when
they walk onto campus. Davidson needs to actively pursue
conservative professors in order to solve this problem. If
conservatives feel welcome, they are more likely to engage
the rest of the community, and communicate ideas. This
would help create a more constructive dialogue on campus
and keep the liberal and conservative groups from radicaliz-
ing and becoming warring factions.

Furthermore, having more conservative professors would
be good for campus liberals because if liberal ideas go
unevaluated at an institution with such great capacity for crit-
ical thought, they become weaker and less practical.

It is not likely that conservative professors will ever form
a large minority of our campus’s teachers, but at a college
where anywhere from 40 to 45 percent of students consider
themselves conservative, it is important that there is diversi-
ty in the faculty as well as in the student body. Without a
comfortable environment for both liberals and conservatives,
everyone loses.

Sam Spencer is a sophomore physics and political science
double major from Davidson, NC. Contact him at
saspencer@ davidson.edu.
