4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hours, continued from page 1

Arnold also noted that other majors would
receive hours for time spent outside of class,
whether for an AT session or a writing lab.

“This system would not hurt any other
majors,” said Arnold, “it would only help lab
intensive majors.”

In 1968, Davidson did away with the
hourly credit system that awarded course
credits as a function of hours logged per
week. Since then, Davidson students have
received a single course credit for each class
they take.

Registrar Dr. Hansford Epes said that nei-
ther system will offer absolute fairness to
students.

“Our system is not perfect and I know stu-
dents in labs are spending more scheduled
time for their class, but it does not follow
that they are the only students spending
extra time for their classes,” said Epes.

Epes emphasized that the huge variety in
course design makes “absolute fairness” an
impossible goal for either a course credit or
hourly system.

“T don’t know of a system on the face of
the earth where every course is equal,” said
Epes.

Most complaints about the present system
came from science majors, who felt that the
credit system should reflect the extra time
spent in lab.

“I feel I’m more pressed for time when I
have a lab on a day,” said Jessica Lahre ’07,
a biology major.

“T think there should be a credit per hour
system so that students would get credit for
everything from labs to AT sessions.”

Graham Honeycutt ’06, a Spanish major,
showed far less concern over changing the
credit system to reflect extra time commit-

NEWS

ments outside of class.

“IT wouldn’t say I’m against a different
system,” said Honeycutt. “I just don’t care
that much. I took my one lab and I’m done.”

The course credit system is not unique to
Davidson.

“Our system may look wild and unique,
but it’s not. It is characteristic of most of the
top liberal arts schools,” said Epes.

Many top schools, including Harvard, use
course credit systems similar to Davidson.

Biology professor Karen Bernd supports a
system that recognizes all course commit-
ments that are outside the usual 50 minutes.

“If the answer compensates for all the
extra hours spent outside the SO minutes in
class, then it would be fair,” said Bernd.

Davidson alum Dr. Craig White ’82
expressed reservations about switching
toward an hourly system.

“J just don’t remember Davidson empha-
sizing course hours,” said White.

A graduate of Harvard Medical School,
White worried that an hourly system would
discourage pre-medical students from taking
other classes.

White fondly recalled taking a diversjty of
courses at Davidson outside of the pre-med-
icine track.

“I wouldn’t want to keep pre-med stu-
dents from taking other courses,” said
White. “If science courses are heavily
weighted, then science majors might be
inclined to take fewer courses in other
areas.”

Arnold stressed that he has plans to fur-
ther research the issue before he takes any
action.“This is my preliminary opinion, and
I feel I need to talk with Dean Shandley,
President Vagt, and most importantly the
student body in order to better understand
the situation.”

APPLICATIONS INVITED
| FOR THE
KEMP SCHOLARS PROGRAM

The office of the Vice President for Academic
Affairs encourages students from the classes of
2006, 2007, and 2008 to apply for the 2005 -
Kemp Scholars program. Sponsored by
Bank of America, up to four Kemp Scholars each
receive $2,000 in reimbursable expenses to
support independent study, travel, and research, |
plus a cash award of $1,000. Frequently, projects
have had an international focus with the award
sponsoring summer travel outside the U.S.,
however, domestic projects are also welcome.
Research topics from any and all disciplines
are eligible.

Professor Mark C. Foley in the Department
of Economics is the current program
director and more information, including
the application form, can be found at
his website. (Navigate to the Department of
Economics home page.) Proposals are due

March 1lth. .

Sub-free, continued from page 1

body moved into Executive Session for final
debate and decision-making.

The SGA proposal reads, “The substance-
free by freshman hall option proposed by the
substance-free committee will be installed
for one year only (2005-2006); the room-
mate option ... will be enacted at the begin-
ning of the 2006-2007 academic year, -and
then totally reevaluated by the SGA in the
spring semester of that year.”

According to the roommate option pro-
posed by SGA senators Mac Skelton ’07 and
Jack Hubbard ’06, first-year students can
“indicate no preference as to desiring a non-

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

Other issues influencing the committee’s
recommendation included the demand for
cleaner and quieter living space, valid con-
cern about fragmentation due to isolation,
location’s effect on the desirability of sub-
free housing, possibility of sub-free housing
reducing student's “social education,” and
the critical need for sych options for first-
year students. \ ‘

Based on these issues, the group made
three recommendations: first-year students
would still have the option of living on sub-
free halls, which. would be dispersed
throughout different buildings; upperclass-
men sub-free housing would be completely

discontinued; and all of the housing options

would be better publi-

drinking roommate or
not, request a non-
drinking roommate, or
request a non-drinking
roommate who is also
willing to make a bind-
ing agreement not to
drink throughout the
year.” These roommate
pairs would be dis-
persed among fresh-
man halls.

Skelton was pleased
with the SGA’s deci-
sion.

“The substance-free

“The substance-free by
freshman hall option proposed
by the substance-free committee
will be installed for one year

only (2005-2006); the

roommate option ... will be
enacted at the beginning of the
2006-2007 academic year, and
then totally reevaluated by the
SGA in the spring semester
of that year.”

--text of SGA’s sub-free proposal

cized to the Davidson
community.

The committee also
argued that \gub-free
halls spread around
campus would increase

interaction between
drinkers and _ non-
drinkers.

From his own experi-
ence, however, Skelton
argued that the hall
solution would not go
far enough.

“IT was on one of two

by freshman hall solu-
tion is a step in the right direction, but it is
eventually self-defeating,” he said. “If
drinkers and non-drinkers are taught to live
separately freshman year, how can they be
expected to live together in the following
three?”

The proposal of sub-free by freshman hall
was proposed by the task force committee
formed to discuss sub-free housing options
earlier this year.

The committee looked at options at com-
parable institutions, engaged in focus group
discussions, and conducted a student survey
in forming their recommendation.

While many factors guided the commit-
tee’s recommendation, they were particular-

ly surprised to find that minority students .

make up a disproportionate percentage of
sub-free housing, “with 63 percent of Asian-
American students and 53 percent of
African-American students choosing this
option.”

substance-free ‘halls in
Richardson last year. There was very little
interaction between the three regular halls
and the two substance-free halls.”

Another proposal presented to the SGA
was submitted by freshman Senator Joshua
Choi.

Choi’s proposal supported leaving the cur-
rent sub-free housing system untouched, but
it received little enthusiasm among the SGA
senators.

According to Skelton, plans are also
underway to overhaul freshman program-
ming to “promote respect, friendship and
understanding between drinkers and non-

. drinkers and, more generally, between every

behavioral, social, racial, and religious
group on campus.”

“He hopes that reevaluation of freshman
programming will help “shape the social
environment through hall counselors and
freshmen programming, as preparation for
the following three years.”

THE LATEST NEWS ON CAMPUS...

«=» JUST WAITING FOR YOU TO REPORT IT.

Write News. Email libarry. -

