THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alcohol, continued from page 1

required at Patterson Court social events
to ensure student safety and compliance with
college regulations.

Before the revisions, Court parties were
classified into at least four different cate-
gories: registered parties,
spontaneous/impromptu, guest-list or date
functions, and members-only. Based on
these categories, houses would supply the
necessary number of risk management staff.

These categories have now condensed to a
single party type with risk management poli-
cies based solely on the attendance at the
party.

One risk manager is now required at par-
ties of at least 30 individuals, a change from
40 under the old rules.

For events attended by at least 60 individ-
uals, organizations must now have two risk
managers, one trained student bartender and
an ID checker.

A further change to risk management poli-
cies is the requirement of a police officer at
all events of at least 80 individuals.

The only exception to the attendance-
based policy is events where. only members
of the Court organization are present.
Entirely members only events do not require
the police officer.

Associate Dean of Students and Director
of Residence Life Leslie Marsicano hopes
that the attendance-based policy will help
clarify the policies.

“Patterson organizations that appear
before judicial boards [over violations of the
risk management policies] often express
confusion at the rules,” Marsicano said.
“One of our top goals was to design a policy
that is clear and easy to understand.”

Adam Sperduto ’06, current president of
Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, found the clar-
ification encouraging.

“One large concern regarding risk man-
agement policy in the past was the complex-

NEws

ity of the regulations,” he said. “The new
rules aim to simplify the symemy and I
believe they have.”

Other members of the Patterson Court
expressed concern about the financial burden
increased regulation of risk management
policies will have on organizations, as well
as trouble finding increased numbers of risk
managers.

Alex Arinsmier ’06, president of Phi Delta
Theta fraternity, said via email, The student
population’s safety should be first priority,
but it appears the targeting of Patterson
Court to increase the number of paid risk
managers at Court parties is an unfair

assumption, which will lead to a decrease in

the number of parties on the court, and a
probable increase in unsupervised alcohol
consumption in dorms.”

In response to student concerns about cost
last spring, a successful recommendation
emerged that allowed organizations to hire
risk managers from within their own ranks.
In the past, risk managers were forbidden
from being in-house.

Date rape concerns lead to solo cup lids

Patterson Court organizations will also
need to provide lids for drinks served at par-
ties. The lids are meant as a precaution
against the introduction of any foreign sub-
stances or drugs into the drinks.

“I do believe that the lids are a step in the
right direction,” Sperduto said. “We will
have to assess the practicality of this solution
as the semester progresses.”

Other environmentally-attuned students,

favored a “just can” approach to the policy.
Becky Nolin ’06 said, “I like the anonymity
of the cups, but I favor the ecology of the
cans.”

Drug policy revisions
The revisions to the Drug Policy were
equally substantive.

‘ North Carolina law classifies different
drugs according to “schedules.” Formerly,
Davidson College policy treated all sched-
ules of illegal drugs in the same manner, for
possession. For the first offense, this includ-
ed notification of parents, one year of disci-
plinary probation, and participation in a drug
education or treatment program. A second
offense resulted in immediate and indefinite
suspension from the college.

For Schedules I through V, the option for
probation has been eliminated to bring col-
lege policy more into line with state law. A
first offense for these drugs will now result
in indefinite suspension.

An extensive listing of these drugs may be
found in Appendix B of the Davidson
College Red Book.

“Campus police were concerned about the
drug violations because the drugs are distrib-
uted by dangerous people, and they do not
want that group on our campus,” Marsicano
said.

Section VI drugs, defined as ‘Marijuana,
THC, Hashish, Hash Oil,” retain the former
punishment.

Room Search Policy

In addition, Residence Life Room Search
policies have now been incorporated into the
College’s Drug Policy itself. These include
the right of full-time college RLO or Public
Safety staff to search any room, without
notice, given “reasonable cause” — including
but not limited to drug or weapons searches.
The policy makes no provision for the pres-
ence of student RLO employees, like hall
counselors, as witnesses or the presence of
the residents themselves.

Student Government Association
President Ryan Arnold ’06 said, “‘The [inclu-
sion of] Room Search Policy was not dis-
cussed in CCRL,” or the Council on Campus
and Religious Life, an advisory body to the
president made up of students, faculty and

take Forest

GOMMUNITY CHURGH

www.lakeforest.org

Passion. Grate.

Hays as part of your spiritual growth and exploration
B animals at once. Our worship service is designed to
ve ‘always’ gone to

WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 31, 2005 5

staff. “I’m only assuming it is new because it
is in red [in Assistant Dean of Student Life
Earnest Jeffries’ email of the changes to the
student body]. I was not aware of the former
policy.”

Arnold expressed concern that students
would also be unaware of this addition.
“Students were not involved in the process
of deciding this policy. At a minimum, a stu-
dent should be present during a search in
order to witness the process,” he said.

The process of policy review

Discussion of the changes will be on
SGA’s Thursday agenda, where they will dis-
cuss what role, if any, SGA has regarding the
new policies.

The changes are a reflection of the col-
lege’s policy to update its alcohol and drug
rules every two years. A panel of students,
faculty and administrators drafted the
changes and then presented them to the
SGA, CCRL, and Patterson Court Council
for revisions and further suggestions last
spring.

Marsicano served on the committee that
developed the new changes to the alcohol
and drug policies. The committee also con-
sisted of students Weston Waxweiler ’0S,
Jennifer Mickle ’05, Katherine Hubbard °05,
Christine Higby ’05, and Adam Martin ’06.
Dr. Cindy Hauser and Dr. Fred Smith repre-
sented the faculty.

The proposed alterations were ultimately
submitted to President Bobby Vagt, who
decides on any changes to school policy.

“These changes come regularly and come
on the recommendations of students and
staff,” Vagt said. “I do not see these as huge
policy shifts, but as regular, every couple of
years, fine tuning.”

Managing Editor Mike Giglio and Senior
Staff Writer Ben Whigham contributed to this
article.

le who've given up
you this Sunday.

Lake

Norman

enit

|

Lake Norman YMC4

teens
“ig / College
Concord Rd

¢

We Mect Here

W15

3
Old Statetatle R4)

jf 4 Crlamea Ave iah

Uiscovery
