14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By JAMIE WILL
Staff Writer

Three days of intense competition at
Davidson’s Cannon Pool ended well for the
men’s and women’s swim teams on Nov. 18-
20, as they placed first and second, respec-
tively, against the College of Charleston,
Virginia Military Institute, Indiana
Univerisity of PA, Gardner-Webb, and
Washington and Lee.

The Davidson College Invite came down
to the wire for the women, who nearly
defeated the College of Charleston on the
final day, but the ’Cats unfortunately fell a
mere three points short of first place.

Despite the undesirable result, the
women’s team had several major contribu-
tions from swimmers of all classes.

The team was led by co-captain Megan
Hollar ’06, who posted seven victories
throughout the weekend in races, along with
Ellie Trefzger 07, who provided a win in the
1650 free as well as in a relay. Alanna Ream
*09 and Courtney Sanders ’09 also competed
well for the Wildcats.

Said Ream, “It was a very exciting meet,
and even though we lost narrowly to the
College of Charleston, the meet gave us a lot
of confidence that we have a strong team and
can be competitive in our conference.”

In fact, in the 100 meter butterfly, Sanders
was able to set a meet record time of 58.59,
and she nearly etched her name in the all-
time Davidson College record books as well
in her first year.

Hollar also set a women’s meet record in
the 800-meter freestyle relay and the 100-
meter breast stroke.

SPORTS
Men take first; women,

second at College Invite

Despite the final result, the team made a
terrific showing and demonstrated a lot of
potential to build on this year.

On the men’s side, it was a dominant
showing in which Davidson never trailed in
the meet, taking first place by over 200
points.

Everybody seemed to get into the act, as
there were often multiple Wildcats racing
into the finals in events, including the 50-
free in which Davidson had three final par-
ticipants.

A few swimmers with standout perform-
ances for the men’s team included Will
Broughton ’08, who had a terrific showing
on the first day in winning the 500-meter
freestyle and putting the team ahead, as well
as captain Brad Poole ’06, who set a meet-
record in winning the men’s 100-meter but-
terfly.

“Looking at the results from the Davidson
Invite from this year and then comparing
them to that of last year, I can really tell that
the team is improving. Everyone really
stepped up at the meet and swam strong. It is
exciting to see the team moving in the right
direction,” said Broughton.

Hollar was named Swimmer of the Week
by the Colonial Athletic Association. She
was Rookie of the Year in 2003 and holds the
school record for the 100 free.

The performances by both the men’s and
women’s swim teams for Davidson show a
lot of promise for the rest of this season as
well as the future of the team.

Both teams will return on Dec. 17 to swim
at Florida Atlantic University in Boca Raton,
FL. They will compete against FAU for their
training trip and the University of Denver.

100%

66%

Sponsored

EXP
oo ye FR.

Congratulations Seniors!

The Senior Class Gift has
en reached 66%
Paid Participation!

President and Mrs. Vagt

gift of $12,006 to the
Annual Fund if the

reaches 75% PAID participation!

Please visit our website at
www. davidson.edu/giving
to make a gift online.

CONTACT Liz KISS AT
LIKISS@DAVIDSON.EDU
WITH QUESTIONS!

Seniors, Don't Forget:
Thursday, Dec. 8th Latte Mug Study Break
by the Residence Life Office
10:00 pm C. Shaw Smith 900 Room

will make a

Senior Class

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

Brendan Winters ’06 had 24 points on 8-of-17 shooting in the Wildcats exciting

double-overtime game against Charlotte.

Basketball from page 16

their Wildcats.

In familiar fashion, the first half was anti-
climactic as both teams exchanged small
leads in a defensive struggle. Jason Morton
06 helped to break the monotony as he
scored seven quick points to spark a 9-2
Davidson run that ended the half. The
Wildcats were able to maintain their lead
throughout most of the second half behind
the offensive prowess of Johnson, who fin-
ished with a team-high 23 points, Winters,
and Grant.

As a team, Davidson shot 51.6 percent
from the floor and 82.4 percent from the free
throw line. The ’Cats continued to stay ahead
of the Hawks throughout the final minute of

the game behind the clutch free throw shoot-

ing of Winters, but two three-pointers by St.
Joe’s at the end of regulation left the score
tied at 83.

Davidson reclaimed their momentum as

Jason Richards ’08 hit a three-pointer to
score the first points of overtime. Davidson
never looked back as they ran to a 100-94
victory in front. of a crowd of 3,544.
* The Wildcats’ winning streak came to a
halt at the end of November when they fell
by four points in double overtime to
Charlotte. Despite the efforts of Winters and
Morton, the ’Cats were not able to regain
control of the game after Charlotte came
back from a 54-46 deficit in the second half.
A few clutch shots kept the Wildcats’ hopes
alive, but the home crowd and the Charlotte
momentum kept upping the ante. It also did-
n’t help that every rebound seemed to turn
into a foul against the Wildcats.

The 49ers exposed some key weaknesses
for Davidson, including the ’Cats’ inability
to control defensive rebounds and the lack of
a multi-faceted offense when Johnson
missed inside shots. '

These mistakes seemed to have been all
but erased when Davidson took to the road
again up to Boone, NC, to face Appalachian

State. Davidson was not intimidated by the
giant-killer attitude that the Mountaineers
had taken on, as they rolled through the sec-
ond-half allowing ASU to score four second
half points until the nine minute mark in the
game.

Johnson recorded his first double-double
of the season while Morton and Winters con-
tinued to be hot from behind the line, com-
bining for eight trifectas en route to the 102-
69 victory.

Sander continued to be the underrated
force inside as he went 6-7 from the field,
recording 16 points on the game. While this
win should be a harbinger of things to come,
it is worth noting that the.’Cats have not
blown out a conference team on the road by
this margin of victory in many years.
Coming into the season, Appalachian State
was expected to challenge for the North divi-
sion title. .

Despite all of the storylines of this early
season, perhaps most exciting is the relation-
ship the team has with its fans. With so many
games within traveling distance of
Davidson, the team often can count on its
fans to carry them through rough stretches of
games. This occurred both in the UMass and
St. Joseph’s game, as the energy of the crowd
translated into energy on the court.

“In college basketball, the margin for error
is ever so slight as games are decided by
inches, seconds and points,” said McKillop.
“We fed off the crowd in [the UMass and St.
Joe’s] games. It is no coincidence that, in the
last four minutes of each game, we were at
our best when the fans were at their best.”

Davidson brings the show back home as
they face a Big 12 powerhouse in the
Missouri Tigers at 8 p.m tonight in Belk
Arena. The Tigers should still be angry about
their three-point loss to Davidson last year,
but the Wildcats have the experience and
senior leadership to bring energy and accura-
cy to the court on Wednesday.

The Davidson fans will be out in high
numbers as they will look to experience yet
another attack of the “Cardiac ’Cats.”
