4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Students express discontent
with registration process

WebTree proves to be fairest program, says Epes

By BLEVIN SHELNUTT
Senior Staff Writer

As another hectic period of drop/add
comes to a close, many students express dis-
content with Davidson’s course registration
process.

“IT am a junior, and I feel like I should be
getting choice of my classes but I am not. I
continually have to do drop/add. I think the
system should be more accommodating so
that upperclassmen can actually get into the
classes they need,” said Emily Moore ’06.

The college’s current ‘registration process
dates back to 1975, when students created
the complex lottery system fondly referred to
today as WebTree.

The basis for the system is the idea that
everyone has an opportunity to procure their
first-choice course before anyone has an
opportunity to procure their second-choice
course. This contrasts with the college’s pre-
vious registration system, in which courses
were assigned based on a process called
“time-ticketing.”

According to class year, students would
come to Chambers gallery at a specific time,
approach a department representative to
inquire about course availability, and fill out
a blank note card to register.

The registration process is comprised of
three phases. The first phase is the lottery,
which provides students a starting point from
which to fine-tune their schedules.

The second phase is the schedule adjust-
ment period. All drop/add changes can be
made on the web to the first k of

5 ee

3 My I-77
®

| | [Seuthe T
StL Bremer] || ~ TMi exit yy

classes. During the first week, courses that
require instructor permission or other excep-
tions must be done manually through the
Registrar’s Office.

During the second week of class, all
drop/add changes must be done through the
Registrar’s Office. Students must also pay a
$20 fee for each schedule adjustment. This
fee has existed since the implementation of
the current registration system and encour-

‘ages students to settle their schedules as

quickly as possible.

After the second week of class, schedule
changes are only permitted for students reg-
istered for five classes. Students are allowed
to drop the fifth class in the third week; how-
ever, no classes may be added.

The college is currently revising this rule
in order to prevent students from “test-driv-
ing” courses and preventing others from reg-
istering. Registrar Dr. Hansford Epes
believes he has seen an increase in this
behavior over the last few years and remarks
that although withholding a course might be
a good strategy for one student, it is not fair
to other students interested in the course.

“Oftentimes, courses which are full when
students are trying to get into them are not
full three weeks later,” Epes said. “But then
it is too late for other students to add.”

Dr. Epes believes Davidson has continued
to utilize the WebTree registration program
because students believe it is the fairest
process.

He also points out that Davidson’s regis-
tration system has been copied by several
other institutions, including Rhodes College.

HELP WANTED

MATURE, RESPONSIBLE FEMALE TO HELP

WITH MY THREE YOUNG CHILDREN.

MAY

INCLUDE SOME LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING.
WILLING TO SUBMIT TO BACKGROUND CHECK.
MONDAY THROUGH THRUSDAY,

4-6 HOURS A DAY.

DAYS AND TIMES FLEXIBLE BUT PREFER
MORNING HOURS.

~ $10.00 / HOUR
CPR EXPERIENCE PREFERRED AND BABYSITTING
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES REQUIRED.
MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION.
PLEASE CALL STACEY IF INTERESTED
704-894-0986

' Epes.

Classes, continued from page I
Chiroldes, Professor and Chair of the
Spanish Department, said, “We are filled
right now, and next year we will have to raise
the ceilings. Literature classes will be raised
from 20 to 25 students and composition
classes will go from 16 to 20 students. With
more students in classes, quality might go
down a little bit.”

Dr. Hansford Epes, the college Registrar,
believes that the issues raised by faculty are
important, but says that there are limitations
as.to how many courses Davidson can offer.

“Any good’ professor can make a really
good case that they can do a better job teach-
ing if the class is smaller, but there are some
things that simply aren’t practical,” said
“How high would we have to raise
tuition in order to add all the classes we
would want to add?” .

Epes also said that Davidson does a better
job than most of ‘its peer institutions with
regard to class size and student-faculty ratio.

“Classes that have 30 students here would
have 40 or more students at a lot of other
schools,” Epes said.

According to Davidson’s Office of
Institutional Research, 71 percent of classes
contain fewer than 20 students. That figure is
approximately average compared to the
other colleges ranked in U.S. New and World
Report’s top ten liberal arts colleges.

Davidson’s student-faculty ratio, however,
which has remained approximately the same

‘for at least the last five years at 11:1, is last

among the top ten liberal arts colleges. Most
other top ten liberal arts colleges had student
faculty ratios of either 8:1 or 9:1.

Overall, Davidson ranks seventh among
all liberal arts colleges in the country in that
survey.

Davidson is able to keep class size small
despite a higher student-faculty ratio because
it expects professors to teach five classes per
year compared to just four classes expected
at many other top liberal arts colleges.

The Dean of Faculty, Dr. Clark Ross, sug-

) WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005

gested that even with the increased course
load Davidson professors carry, their overall
workload is no more than at comparable
institutions.

“While our faculty do teach more, we
don’t have the same publish or perish philos-
ophy that some other schools have,” said
Ross.

Ross went on to explain several factors
that have contributed to the high ‘number of
classes at or near capacity in recent years.

“The class of-2007 is particularly large,
and we have seen fewer students choosing to
study abroad than we had in the past,” Ross
said.

Several department chairs said they
believe that hiring additional faculty is the
best solution to this problem.

Yet the high cost of adding additional full
time faculty, which cost $1-$1.5 million each ©
to endow, means that the administration is
cautious about hiring additional faculty
members in order to solve problems of over-
capacity.

“Because of the tenure system, adding a
new faculty member means a permanent
commitment, and there is no way to know if
current demand for a particular subject will
stay the same ten years down the road,” said
Ross.

Instead of adding full-time faculty, Ross
said the College was focusing on filling tem-
porary vacancies with visiting professors,
and eventually reducing the overall size of
the student body slightly in order to reduce
demand for courses.

While this solution might not solve the
immediate problem of overcapacity, many
professors said they realized that the
College’s limited resources mean that solv-
ing the problem will take time.

“TI would love it if we had a couple more
faculty, and there are some courses, like
international law, that we can’t offer because
we don’t have anyone specializing in that
area,” said Thornberry. “But I realize that
there are limited resources.”

Pell, continued from page 1

lion, will be included in Bush’s budget pro-
posal for the fiscal year 2006.

Stevenson said that it was impossible so
soon after the announcement to determine
the exact effect of the updated formula on
Davidson’s 136 Pell Grant recipients.

Her “rough estimate,” though, is that
Davidson will see its total Pell Grant money
reduced by $20,000.

She said, “When you put that in the con-
text of the financial aid budget at Davidson
and the amount of money the college is pro-
viding for institutional funds for our stu-
dents, it is a very, very small amount.”

While careful to emphasize that she was
not making “a guarantee,” Stevenson said
she did not anticipate Pell Grant recipients at
Davidson “feeling [the] impact” of this deci-
sion. She added that the college would likely
be able to “absorb” students’ additional
expenses.

She also said that Davidson uses federal
and institutional formulas to calculate finan-
cial need.

Since the college relies most heavily on its
own institutional formula, changes in the
federal formula should not have much of an
effect on its distribution of financial aid.
However, some critics have expressed con-
cern that states and colleges that follow the
federal formula will make their own reduc-
tions in grants ‘and loans to low-income stu-
dents. _

Stevenson said of Bush’s proposal to raise
the maximum Pell Grant, “Even if in princi-

. ple it gets endorsed and gets into the law, that

does not mean it is going to be funded. So
that is simply presidential rhetoric at this
point, nothing more.”

According to Stevenson, the average Pell
Grant at Davidson is $2,607. Davidson stu-
dents received a total of $354,600 in Pell
Grants this year.

Sushi @ The Lake

(704) 987-8080 www.sushiatthelake.com

Hibachi
Sele

(Equal

51 OM

chi Grill Speci

Coy
C Bee. wine Night!
h School iD

; 10% Off with School ID
Monday-Friday 2pm-6pm
Saturday 11:30am-5pm
