THE DAVIDSONIAN

Tenure, from page 1

regularly reviewed by tenured professors.

“You have an opportunity to review cours-
es,” Ryan Aponte ’07 said, “but I don’t think
it’s that big of an opportunity.”

Janelle Milanes ’07 complained about a
professor who diverged greatly from a syl-
labus and neglected to have structure in the
course. Like Ruble, she felt her course failed
to live up to Davidson’s rigor and organiza-
tion.

“While I want to protect the idea of
tenure, and thus academic freedom,
I want to know that when I evalu-
ate a professor poorly, someone
looks into the incident and makes
sure no one is abusing the ‘freedom’
they've been given.”

--Julie Ruble ’06

Ross, however, has a high bar for serious
concerns with courses. Concerns with style
are not among them. Serious concerns, he
said, include not attending classes, not
assigning reading, grading irregularly or
with bias, and harassment.

“The Davidson faculty is by and large just
extraordinary and excellent,” Ross said. “In
my experience, problems with individual
instances are far and rare.”

Ross sees many complaints as issues of
style, which he defends in the interest of
diverse approaches to teaching.

“I would never want to see a fear of com-
plaint to homogenize teaching approaches,”

~ he said.

Ross gave the example of his introductory
economics course. He thinks the most appro-
priate way to teach his that course,is by lec-
turing, even though some studefits have
complained about it in the past.

Ruble, however, found fault with her pro-

fessor’s style in the aims for the course.

“While I want to protect the idea of tenure,
and thus academic freedom, I want to know
that when I evaluate a professor poorly,
someone looks into that incident and makes
sure no one is abusing the ‘freedom’ they’ve
been given,” Ruble said.

The Tenure Process

According to the Faculty Policies hand-
book, a professor must demonstrate “profes-
sional competence, service to the academic
community, and commitment to the welfare
of the College” before he can receive that
freedom and security. After six years of serv-
ice, a professor on tenure track can be con-
sidered for tenure.

Davidson’s tenure process weighs per-
formance in the classroom very heavily,
according to Tenure Committee Chair and
History Department Chair Dr. Sally
McMillen.

NEWS

“Teaching is number one,” McMillen said.
“We look very carefully at student evalua-
tion and at letters students write on the pro-
fessor’s behalf.”

McMillen said scholarship, such as
research, published materials, and confer-
ence attendance, is second in importance.

Service to the community has the Jeast sig- °

nificance for tenure.

“Davidson does a really good job of let-
ting people know whether they have a good
chance of getting tenure,” Sellers said,
explaining why he believes Davidson has a
large percentage of tenured professors.

Before the tenure process in the sixth year,
the professor undergoes a second-year and a
fourth-year review by his or her department
chair and the dean of faculty.

“I really feel it’s a good process,”
McMillen said.

This year 11 professors are up for tenure.
Last year only four were considered. The
number each year is a function of when pro-
fessors came to the college, so it can vary
greatly. Thirty-seven professors out of the
155 currently at Davidson do not have
tenure, about 24 percent of the faculty.

Tenure and the Classroom

According to Ross, most professors at
Davidson choose different styles of teaching,
which may cause students to fault their pro-
fessors and blame tenure. Many students,
however, have never had a professor fail to
appropriately teach the intended material,
whether or not they are tenured.

“I’ve never noticed a difference between

tenured and untenured , professors and
between professors before and after they’ve
been tenured,” Bo Barley ’07 said. “Some of
the professors that have been tenured for a
long time are good professors.”
. Sellers, however, believes that further
review of professors would ensure that
courses are on par with Davidson’s level of
organization and rigor, regardless of style.

Professors, he said, do not talk about the
results of their evaluations unless the course
is taught by multiple teachers.

“Obviously it depends on the professors,
but you can’t really neglect what your stu-
dents are saying since the college is so
small,” Bill DeVoe 07 said.

DeVoe said he had a couple of professors
who gave anonymous midterm course evalu-
ations, similar to those at the end of the
semester. .

He thinks more professors should do this,
because it shows they really care what stu-
dents think about their classroom experi-
ence.

President Bobby Vagt agrees that student
opinions about their courses are essential to
the Davidson academic experience.

“It’s absolutely vital that there are steps
taken if a student is unhappy with a course,”
Vagt said. “What goes on in the classroom is
what we’re all about.”

And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad
Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries Come
soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the expenence.
We offer personalized attention from start to finish,

© Summes semester and yearlong programs

© Wide range of academic courses ¢ Internships

© Language courses at all levels ¢ Fleld trips and tours

* Small classes © University credit « Scholarships » Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.
ak ueiciaie cls tor bani Satin anil cations.

LEMS ey A
itase, AL ‘Ss
SUMS b.4 +

ren oor > sare

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19,2005 #5

Sandy Salazar ’06 and the boys from Tara Hall watch eggs fall during an egg drop.

Alternative Breaks help spark
interest in ‘unusual’ service

By CHRISTINE HIGHET

Staff Writer

The Alternative Breaks program at
Davidson sent 33 students to various parts of
the country to take part in different commu-
nity service projects over Fall Break. The
Alternative Breaks program is a national
organization, but Davidson’s program differs
from many others others in that the college
funds the trips.

Elizabeth Henry ’08 and Will Perreault ’06
led a group of seven to Asheville, where they
worked with Mountain Housing
Opportunities (MHO), an organization that
helps with emergency home repair. Davidson
has worked with MHO on many previous
Alternative Break trips, as well as on Service
Odysseys and Bonner Scholar retreats.

This year, the Davidson group built an
accessibility ramp for a handicapped woman
and aided MHO in a few clean-up tasks.

“It was a great way to learn more about
issues of equality and service in our area and
about the steps that are being taken by
groups and individuals to better our commu-
nity,” Henry said.

The second group, led by Leah Swaney
708 and Daniel Clayton ’07, traveled to
Atlanta, where they worked with Project
Open Hand to make and deliver meals to the
elderly and AIDS patients around Atlanta.

In Georgetown, SC, a group of students
led by Sandy Salazar ’06 and Ethan Case ’08
worked with the Tara Hall Home for Boys,
an organization that provides homes for
abused or troubled boys. The students spent
time with and bonded with the boys.

The fourth group, led by Laura Beach ’07
and Jon Holbrook ’07, volunteered with the
Energy Xchange, a company in Burnsville,
NC whose main focus is alternative energy
sources in the area. For the first two days,
they transplanted plants into greenhouses

completely run on alternative power sources
and heated by methane gas.

On the last day of service, the group
worked at the home of a couple who have
been building an “earthship” for almost four
years. Their “earthship” is a completely self-
sustained house made of recycled materials,
including tires that would otherwise be left
to sit in landfills. The house is powered by
solar panels that charge batteries to allow for
electricity at night.

“Ultimately, it looks like a normal house,
but [it’s] way cooler, and a lot more natural,”
Kyle Konrad ’09 said.

The group helped build one-story, non-
load bearing interior and exterior walls made
of soda cans.

“The trip was mind-blowing, to say the
least,” said Konrad. “The group that I went
with was probably the greatest group of peo-
ple ever. Each and every one of them grew in
some way on the trip, and now, not only are
they really awesome friends, but we all
learned so much.”

The program is part of United Community
Action (UCA) and is entirely student-run.

Kelly Williams ’06 and Christina Evans
’06 planned and coordinated this year’s trips.
Williams has led four trips and been on six;
Evans had led one and been on four.

“The great thing about these trips,” Evans
said, “is getting the opportunity to put in
practice the ideas we talk about in school.
You just feel so refreshed at the end of every
trip. It’s great.”

Evans and Williams use a website to select
the trips, which are held during Fall and
Spring Breaks. Williams and Evans may also
plan a trip over winter break.

“With trips like these,” Evans said, “you
really -become more conscious of what’s
going on around you. It’s cool because it
helps to spark an interest in something
unusual,”

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

&
GRILL

aS

15% OFF WITH CATCARD!

GOURMET FLAME BROILED ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DoGS
SERVED ONGRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,SWEET
ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA &OUR OWN PORK
BAR~B~QUE, BEAR’S BEST “SN8”PHILLY
pS itcbanBel ia & CHICKENSTEAKS

9709-B $ PUlRR SHOPPING CENTER NC

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON”
Zeurs~Dally 11AM~GPM; Clesed Sunday
Phene Number: (704) 895-2692
www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

