THE DAVIDSONIAN

Week in Review

The Week Ahead

Tennis: 3/22 ys. Charlotte 3:00
Tennis: 3/25 vs. Georgia Southern 3:00
Track: 3/25-26 Wake Forest Inv.

Men
Baseball: 3/23 at South Carolina 7:00
Baseball: 3/25 at Elon 7:00
Baseball: 3/26 at Elon 2:00
Baseball: 3/27 at Elon 1:30
Baseball: 3/30 at Radford 3:00
Basketball: 3/23 at Maryland 8:00
Tennis: 3/23 vs. UNCG 2:30
Tennis: 3/24 vs. Charlotte 2:00
Tennis: 3/29 vs. UAB 2:00
Track: 3/25-26 Wake Forest Inv.

For you.
sports

fans

GUNNAK > PICKS
OR TEE Wieitiks

Wildcat Game of
the Week

NIT Basketball
Davidson at Maryland
Wednesday, March 235 at
8:08
Comcast Center

ESPN 2

| don’t mind missing out on the
NCAA when we’re winning in the
NIT. If Davidson beats Maryland
and makes it to Madison Square
Garden, it would be sweet
redemption for the SoCon loss.

Outside the Den

NCAA Tournament
Texas Tech vs. West Virginia
Thursday, March 24 at 9:66

After upsetting Wake, West
Virginia now takes on Texas Tech.
The double-0T win should have
WUU excited for a second upset.

Texas Tech is led by Bobby
Knight, who you might remember
from his chair-throwing days at
Indiana. This match-up ensures
an excellent game with two
closely-ranked teams competing
for a chance to advance.

play on CBS over the weekend, while I could
only get the Davidson game on my laptop
computer (though I’ll take John Kilgo over
Billy Packer any day).

When I saw Vermont, Bucknell; and
Wisconsin-Milwaukee celebrate their way
into the round of 32, I couldn’t help but think
about what could have been.

We too could have been the Cinderella that
joyously shredded thousands of office pool
brackets.

But really, this NIT thing isn’t too bad
either.

Sure, it’s better known as the “‘Not Invited
Tournament” instead of the National
Invitation Tournament, and it has to be the
most disorganized college sporting event
ever.

The bracket is more complicated than any-
thing the NCAA tournament can conjure;
despite the newly-adopted pod system, home
games are seemingly chosen at random; and
every team has a name better suited on the
compass rose.

But while the likes of Maryland and Notre
Dame take the floor with indifference and
dreams of the offseason, the NIT provides
teams like Davidson a chance to play one
more time and salvage something from a
season that turned south so quickly.

With that in mind, I made the five-hour
trip up to Richmond on Wednesday to see
Davidson play at Virginia Commonwealth,
still hoping to get rid of that horrible taste of
a loss that wouldn’t go away.

After the horn sounded for the final time
against UNC Greensboro in the tournament
semifinals, I sat in my seat for several min-
utes, unable to admit that the season that held

so much promise was done. Could 16-0 real-_

ly go down the tube in a couple of lousy min-
utes?

By going to Richmond, I could at least
pretend there was still something to be excit-

Yeah, it sucked to watch everyone else

ed about. Only four games from Madison
Square Garden, right?

‘Three minutes into the game, though, I
was already resigned to an even worse end-
ing than the one two weeks earlier. I had
given up a day of my life to see a blowout in
the season finale.

VCU was every bit the athletic team that
Davidson is not, and it used that advantage to
run up and down on the Wildcats in the open-
ing minutes. Our offense was resigned to
passing the ball around the perimeter until
the shot clock forced a shot, and our defense
appeared content to allow lay-ups and 10-
footers in the lane.

The ’Cats recovered to keep it close for the
rest of the half, but they were a shell of the
confident, 16-0 team they had been for so
long.

In the second half, though, Davidson came
out and played what may have been its best
ball of the season, jumping out to a 46-34
lead it would never relinquish the rest of the
way.

The Wildcats shot over 50 percent in the
second frame, including six of 10 from
beyond the arc and 15-17 from the foul line,

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

to show the once-perfect team was no fluke.

Even better than the win was what hap-
pened after the game, as the players came
back onto the court to great family and
friends i in attendance.

For the first time in weeks, smiles actually
accompanied the faces of the players in
Davidson jerseys. Instead of being labeled
by its tournament failure, this group was now
the team that had claimed the school’s first
postseason victory since 1969, and the first
NIT win in four tries.

The streak continued on Saturday night
against SWMS, as a group of friends and I
huddled around a small computer on fourth
Sentelle to root on our ’Cats over 1,000
miles away. Davidson again fought off first-
half lethargy before playing more near-per-
fect basketball in the second frame to claim
a win against the Bears.

So Davidson now travels to College Park
to face the mighty Terps of the ACC, a team
that beat Duke twice in regular season but
went 0-3 against Clemson to fall out of
NCAA tournament consideration on the final
weekend.

Maryland has little to play for, as its sea-
son is a failure even if it finishes as No. 66.

But to Davidson, this NIT postseason can
more than quiet the ghosts of that semifinal
loss. Instead of being a footnote to the sea-
son, it can define it.

Davidson is playing as well as it has all
season, perhaps because there is no pressure
to perform, nor any reason to look ahead.

With each passing game, Davidson not
only gets further away from the bitter disap-
pointment of early March, but also closer
towards making this a magical postseason
run.

And while New York City, College Park or
wherever Davidson’s season ends will have
nothign to do with the NCAA tournament,
almost anything is a heck of a lot better than
the ending created in Chattanooga.

Lacrosse falls to 0-3 1 in conference play

By KATHERINE SWAIN
Staff Writer

Davidson opened up its three-game home
series with an 18-1t win over Iona last
Wednesday, but the Wildcats then fell in two
American Lacrosse Conference games. to
remain winless in league play.

Sarah Walter ’08 had a stand-out game,
collecting six points on five goals and one
assist for the day. Walter also caused two
turnovers and two ground balls in her first
collegiate start.

Davidson’s strong attacking performance
was also highlighted by hat-tricks from
Kiften Stephens ’06 and Emily Palmer ’08.

Overall, eight different Wildcats found the
back of the net, illustrating their balanced
offensive play. “We usually have good
takes,” said coach Heather Bliss, “but we
haven’t shot as much as we could, so I’m
very happy with the shots we took and the
job we did backing up missed shots.”

Laura Johnson ’08 also earned her first

collegiate win in the cage for the ’Cats, reg-.

istering seven saves and four ground balls in
the victory.

On Friday afternoon, Davidson hosted
ALC rival George Washington, and the ’Cats
fell to the Colonials 19-6. GW’s aggressive
attack dominated the game, as two different
Colonial players scored four goal apiece to
pick apart the Wildcat defense.

On the offensive side, Whitney Diefendorf
’05 and Eloise Grose ’06 each scored two
goals, while Lindsay Frank ’05 also found
the net twice. Missy Gilbert '06, meanwhile,
tallied three assists on the afternoon.

“I’m not disappointed [with the loss],”
said Bliss, “because we played really well. It
was just the little things. It’s just everybody
doing one more little thing right.”

|
{
:
'
'
ce,
{

Davidson next lost a hard-fought game to
Ohio, 10-3, on Sunday afternoon at Belk
Turf Field. The Bobcats held Davidson
scoreless in the first half and used four goals
of their own to take a +0 advantage into the
locker room.

Frank scored the Cats’ first: goal at the
20:44 mark of the second period, and Millie

“McKenzie ’05 and Sarah Walter ’08 each
notched goals for the Wildcats as well. Their

efforts were not enough, however, as the:

*Cats could not keep pace with Ohio,

On the defensive end, Johnson had a
tremendous game in the net, making eight

saves and causing one turnover for the day.
“Johnson made a lot of great one-on-one

eee
sean? wa vosavnet We >
ts 2

eee

AMT Sane eet

is strugg play so far this year, but tl
ed against nationally-ranked conetonts like Johns Hopkins and Penn State.

saves,” said Grose. “As a freshman in goal,
she was tremendously poised, showing her
great potential for the rest of the season.”

- Davidson played aggressively throughout
the game, double-teaming midfield and
holding the Bobcats well beyond the defense
perimeter for much of the game. Still, the
Bobcats managed to find holes in the
Davidson defense, and Ohio’s rough style of
play kept Davidson’s offense away from the
Bobcat goal for the majority of the game.

With the loss, Davidson fell to 0-3 in ALC
play, and the ’Cats are now 3-5 overall on the
season. Davidson next faces Canisius
College.on March 31 in the first of another
three-game series in four days after Easter.
