2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 6, 2005

Town of Davidson gets new interim police chief

By EmILy KoTA
Senior Staff Writer

Lieutenant Amy Ensminger was named
the interim Police Chief for the town of
Davidson on March 24.

Her appointment resulted from the retire-
ment of former Police Chief John Kearin,
who served Davidson for four years.

Ensminger has worked with the Davidson
police since 1993, when she was a dispatch-
er.

To the best of her knowledge, the town has
not yet established any qualifications for or
begun the process of filling the position.

Ensminger is very interested serving as the
permanent police chief permanently, citing
her experience working in Davidson and her
“intimate knowledge of the town’s needs and
what people are looking for in a police
chief.”

Ensminger was Davidson’s first female
lieutenant and just returned from three
months of training at the FBI’s National
Academy.

Ensminger does not see the potential for
dramatic changes in the relationship between
the college and town police with the appoint-
ment of a new police chief.

Her efforts for change would be more
focused on improving communications
between the police and the entire communi-
ty of Davidson, including students.

“J don’t segregate students, we are all citi-
zens of Davidson,” Ensminger said.

She cited the recent launching of CATs, or
Community Action Teams, an initiative that
was formed to increase community involve-
ment with police, who want to know peo-
ple’s concerns.

As with police in any college town,
Ensminger’s biggest concerns regarding the
student population relate to underage drink-
ing.

At the same time, she said, “students have
never given us any big problems.”

Ensminger hopes that students are able to
have fun responsibly, namely by avoiding
alcohol poisoning and drinking while intoxi-
cated. *

Briefly

Michael Ridge will speak on “Ecumenical Expressivism: The Best of Both Worlds?” on
April 7 at 4:30 p.m. in Room 313 of the Union.

Philosophy Lecture

Film Studies Lecture

-

Lawrance Toppman of the Charlotte Observer will speak about his work as’a film crit-
ic on April 7 at 7 p.m. in the Sprinkle Room of the Union.

Medical Ethics Symposium Oo et
The annual Frederick Womble Speas Symposium considers the topic ‘Organ
Transplantation: How Far Have We Come, How Far Should We Go?” on April 8 in the
900 Room of the Union. The symposium will feature a number of speakers.throughout the

day, as well as panelists and breakout sessions.

Pancho Sanchez Latin Jazz Band

Grammy winning conguero Pancho Sanchez will perform on April 9 at 8 p.m. in the
Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets can be purchased at the Union ticket office from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m.

g

Reptile Day

The Davidson College Herpetology Laboratory will host the fifth annual Reptile Day
on April 9 in the Blanche Knox Parker Garden from 10:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.

Batten Lecture

Batten Visiting Profeiioe of Public Policy Charles M. Hauser will deliver the annual

Batten Lecture, on “Media: Monopoly, gues! mee April Pe rare! in
the 900 Room of the Union. - ee

.

Ensminger does not believe that the town
police specifically target students.

She recognizes that “students are here to
go to school, learn, and have fun,” and it is
not a primary goal of the town police to
interfere with that.

The only comments newly-elected junior
class president Andy Agcaoili ’07 has heard

about town police is from students who

claim to frequently get tickets on the road
into campus from Interstate-77.

Agcaoili hopes the SGA has a voice in the
selection process.

He said that this input “will help so much
in improving the relationship between the
town and the school.”

Ensminger plans to talk to Director of
Campus Safety Fountain Walker in order to
address any of his concerns and see if there
is anything that they can do to work together
more effectively.

Walker also plans to “reach out to them to
build a working relationship that will
enhance the quality of life for all of
Davidson.”

Walker views the relationship between
town police and the college as positive,
explaining that the mission of the town
police is “to protect and serve the citizens of
Davidson,” is the same as that of the campus
safety.

“To my knowledge there has not been any
significant issue, more or less community
members do not understand law enforcement
practices. Due to this, there have been situa-
tions where individuals feel they were not
dealt with fairly,” said Walker.

One change that Walker would like to see

is the establishment of a forum between the
student body and the new Davidson town
Police Chief.

Walker said this would “allow us to
enhance our service capabilities...and would
be a great opportunity to learn the new phi-
losophy of their Department and meet the
officers.”

Walker appreciates all the efforts of the
town police, who are active in “assisting
with criminal investigations, responding to
emergency situations on and around campus,
and police officer training.”

“A great deal of what Davidson Police
have contributed to our community goes
unseen,” Walker said.

Interim Police Chief Amy Ensminger

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/27 Patterson Court Property Damage
Unknown person(s) threw paint of the columns outside Connor House and rum-

maged through the house. There are no suspects at this time.

4/1 Little Dormitory Property Theft

An iPod was stolen from Little Dorm at 2:40 p.m.

4/1 Satellite Parking Lot Property Theft

A stainless steel boat propeller was taken from a 1988 Boston Whaler that was
parked in the upper Satellite Parking Lot between March 31 and April 1.

4/3 Carnegie Guest House Property Theft

A wallet was stolen from a guest at the Guest House.

4/3 Baker Sports Lot Aggravated Assault

Unknown assailant(s) assaulted campus visitors in the Baker Sports Lot at 1 a.m.

