10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 2, 2005

Staff Editorial

No walls to protect us

It’s 1 a.m. on Thursday night, and after three hours buried
in the library, it’s finally time to emerge and head to bed.
With iPod at full blast, you begin the trek down the hill alone,
thinking about little more than the massive headache you
somehow developed in the past few hours. Completely obliv-
ious to your surroundings, you are far from thinking about
how vulnerable to robbery—or worse—you might appear.

After all, this is Davidson College. Will not the Honor
Code protect us? What could happen here in our community
of trust, where we leave our bags unattended in the Union
and find $20 bills taped outside dorm rooms?

As three Davidson students discovered, a lot can happen.

Two weekends ago, three seniors were followed onto cam-
pus and robbed by a carload of males. Thankfully, the mug-
ging was relatively harmless—no one was hurt, and the
assailants got away with little more than pocket change.

While an incident like this is rare, it should serve as a
reminder to Davidson students that living in an open commu-
nity like ours does not preclude them, or justify attitudes of
carelessness and neglect.

There is and has been increased vigilance on the part of
public safety since the incident. As Dean of Students Tom
Shandley wrote in an email sent to the entire student body
yesterday, “We have stepped up patrols in that area and all
parking lots on campus.”

But this will not a noush.

As one of the students admitted, their negligence was to
blame for the robbery. Even after noticing that a car was fol-
lowing them, they failed to recognize the potential danger.

Is that so unusual? How often do any of us watch for cars
that may be following us, or actually ask who is at the door
before opening it?

Davidson often sells itself as an idyllic, walled-in commu-
nity. Does this hurt more than it helps? Town development
policies aside, Davidson and surrounding suburbs will con-
tinue to grow in the future. With this growth will come a new
reality for Davidson College. As Chief of Campus Safety
Fountain Walker said, “The Davidson community is often
targeted for crimes because of its reputation for trustworthi-
ness and affluence.”

While increased patrols and better lighting may help, inci-
dences like the mugging will continue unless we as students
increase our own vigilance.

We need to recognize that the Davidson “bubble” does not
exist. We are not a walled community and do not seek to be.
But, as long as we continue deluding ourselves, we’re putting
this entire community at risk.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UB! ORDA LIBLRITAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Jarrod Blue & Reid Wildman
Yow! Editors _
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge
Business. Manager
* Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

+ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Faculty response to
Spellings hypocritical

The last issue of The Davidsonian
(10/26) featured an article on Secretary
Spellings. Aside from highlighting the
insular thinking of this college’s faculty,
the article addressed the supposed need
for Spellings to stay “above the political
fray.”

As an alumnus, I recall my own Fall
Convocation speaker in 2002, John Hope
Franklin. This man, an accomplished civil
rights leader and historian, did nothing
more in his speech than lambaste any sup-
perter of President Bush, tell Americans
how bullish he thinks we are, and regurgi-
tate tired political talking points.

Yet, he was awarded with a standing
ovation and an honorary doctorate.

One party works for President Bush and
the other criticizes him.

Is this hypocrisy at work?

Khoury Ashooh ’03

Columnist gets
patriotism wrong

I would like to congratulate Mr.
Bradshaw on once again confusing
sensationalism with making a good or
coherent point (The Davidsonian,
10/26) and for suggesting that we as
citizens, instead of seeking to improve

his beloved (and apparently perfect)
America, should simply throw up our
hands in disgust and apathy and “move
to Somalia.”

He fails to realize that the criticisms
of these unpatriotic America-haters are
actually the suggestions of well-inten-
tioned public servants constantly seek-
ing to make America an even better
country than it is today.

I also question the logic of the head-
line “Defy the P.C. gods and thank
America,” which seems to imply that
making off color jokes about Helen
Keller or lesbians somehow qualifies
as expressing gratitude toward the
countless men and women who have
died in order to keep our country safe
from foreign attack.

Andy Kifer ’08

Community should
adopt less selfish ends

I am writing this letter out of disap-
pointment and with the hopes of inspir-
ing even a few students on this campus
to introspection.

I recently experienced another hit
and run on my car parked on campus,
the fourth time in three years. The
repairs have cost a total of $2,000.

The point of this letter is not my
car’s trauma, however. I want to
encourage the Davidson community to

make less selfish decisions in their
lives. ~~

Understandably we are busy and we
have pride. Yet, somehow, these oft vir-
tuous traits preclude more important
qualities like honor, responsibility, and
learning. My situation is only one
example.

Are we too busy/important/confused
to honorably fess up to hitting someone
else’s car?

Are we too stressed/tired/drunk to
take responsibility for our personal
actions?

Are we too focused/intellectual/
ambitious to learn from our mistakes?

My point here is not the car; if you
still think so, you are missing the
importance of my means. Furthermore,
I am in no way ragging on the incredi-
ble and inspiring people in this com-
munity. I simply hope to further incite
discussion and introspection into why
we do the things we do.

Matt Wilson ’06

The Davidsonian wel-
comes letters to the edi-
tor. Please e-mail submis-
sions of less than 250
words to davidsonian

@davidson.edu by
Sunday night. We reserve
the right to edit for con-
tent, brevity and grammar.

A critical mass of campus awareness

By Joe TAYLOR
Guest Columnist

Breast Cancer Awareness Day, which occurred last
Wednesday, coincided with Asian Awareness Week during
Domestic Violence Awareness Month. October is a conscien-
tious month whose enviable multi-tasking abilities enable it
to simultaneously serve as AIDS Awareness Month, Apple
Month, Book Month, Car Care Month, Cosmetology Month,
Dental Hygiene Month, Family Sexuality Education Month
and Medical Librarians Month.

Did I forget to mention National Coming Out Day?

It is an understatement to say that those who unabashedly
claim days and months to be devoted to their cause are com-
pletely out of control. Not a single day goes by that someone
should not be more aware or sensitive toward something,

while also being mindful of something else that is complete-

ly unrelated to the original focus of attention for that day. Or
was it that month?

Those who unabashedly claim
days and months to be devoted
to their cause are completely
out of control.

The worst part about this dizzying array of superficial
awareness is that even local events that are planned with sin-
cerity become trite and shallow. Breast Cancer Awareness
Day and National Coming Out Day, for example, were
respectively celebrated on campus with pink-and rainbow-
colored ribbons. How these items raise awareness or support
is beyond me.

Would I have been more aware of breast cancer on
Wednesday if I had worn a pink shirt? Would I have made a
difference by scribbling my name on the gigantic Gay-
Straight Alliance banner? One problem with these
approaches toward garnering public support is that the pub-
lic often feels obligated to participate for no reason other
than peer pressure. Who wouldn’t sppest awareness of
breast cancer?

The information or enlightening discussions that could
genuinely affect these problems do not result from ribbons or

banners. Perhaps a more effective way to raise awareness is
to educate people about the cause or to catalyze discussions
about ways in which to improve stagnant situations.

An article by Sam Hotchkiss in the October 26 issue of
The Davidsonian ironically illustrates this point very clearly.
In it Mr. Hotchkiss dedicates a few paragraphs to the ease
with which he lives his life as an “out, gay male at
Davidson,” before abruptly turning toward his shock and
outrage at the disparity between the number of signatures on
the National Coming Out Day banner and the 94 percent of
students who responded to the CORE survey supporting dif-
ferent sexual orientations on campus.

The information and discussions

that could genuinely affect these

problems do not result from rib-
bons or banners.

Perhaps the disparity, Mr. Hotchkiss, results not from a
lack of tolerance but from the way the GSA chose to garner
support. If people have been accepting of you then what is
the specific purpose of the banner? You ask for signatures
but do not describe the specific problems on campus or in
society that reveal the undeniable ignorance and bigotry that
truly needs to be addressed.

Despite Mr. Hotchkiss’ clever attempts to prove that being
“anti-gay” is no longer “P.C.,” he fails to insight the genuine
discussion or thought that would make a difference. Perhaps
everyone would learn more about tolerance from a speaker
or a film then they would from seeing more signatures on a
piece of paper or more people at the “Barbequeer,” an
obnoxious and unnecessary pun on sexuality that shames
even the most tactless celebration of heterosexuality.

With ideas and information, these gimmicks, which create
more problems than they solve, would become irrelevant. As
a result, special events like Breast Cancer Awareness Day
and National Coming Out Day could genuinely make a ait
ference because of quality, not quantity.

Joe Taylor is a senior neuroscience major from Poland,
Oh. Contact him at jotaylor@davidson.edu.
