es

ut

16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OCTOBER 5, 2005

‘Cats suffer second- half Homecoming defeat

Chad Barnes ’09 had 65 yards on 16 carries in football’s 58-17 loss against Drake. received a monster

With two wins, ’Cats improve
to 3-0 and 3-1 in SoCon play

By MOoNIcA JAMOUNEAU
Sports Editor

The Wildcats defeated Elon and UNC-Greensboro in
two home games this weekend to bring their record to 3-
1 in the Southern Conference and 5-2 in their last seven
matches.

Against Elon University, Davidson achieved a season-
high .356 hitting percentage, while the defeat of the
Spartans was marked by eight different Wildcat players
making a kill.

Saturday’s match began with a lead by Elon, 9-8,
before the ’Cats stepped up with an 11-3 run and went on
to win 30-23. Davidson notched 17 kills.

The second game began with a small 2-0 lead by Elon.
The ’Cats and the Phoenix traded points to a 10-all score,
but the home team took a stand and after kills by Jenna
Dykstra 07, Kittery Neale ’09, Liz Williamson °06,
Katie Pierucci ’08, Allison Dwyer ’09, and Tierney
Hodge ’09 the score stood at 20-16.

Though Elon crept within one point of Davidson’s
lead, three consecutive attack errors by the Phoenix and
kills from Williamson, Pierucci, and Hodge were enough
to end the game in favor of Davidson. The score of game
two stood at 30-24.

The ’Cats got off to a quick start in the third game with
Pierucci and Erin Balak ’06 serving and rose to 17-8 fol-

lowing a kill from Hodge. Neale finished off Elon with a .

BY Mark CLAYTON block from wideout Ryan Hubbard °08 and

Staff Writer sprinted down the sideline for the touch-
down. The ’Cats took a 10-7 lead with 3:46
remaining in the first quarter.

The Drake Bulldogs came into Richardson ; ry ae
Stadium for the "Cats Homecoming game on Co-captain Alex Arinsmier °06 sparked

Saturday and handed Davidson a crushing the team on the next defensive series when
58-17 defeat. he picked off a ball across the middle.

Alexander went to the air once again and
found tight end Jackson Whetsel ’07 in the
end zone for his second touchdown comple-
tion. With the crowd roaring and the ’Cats
leading 17-7, Drake turned up their level of

The late arriving crowd of over 3,700 fans
watched Davidson lead the game 17-7 in the
early second quarter before the Bulldogs ran
off 51 consecutive points to bury the ’Cats
and give them their third loss of the season. play
b aethaaaii received ue openins kickoff, The Bulldogs punched in touchdowns on

ut a turnover on its first possession proved

costly as Drake connected for an easy touch- their next two possessions to take a 20-17
down pass to take a 7-0 lead. The ’Cats lead with 7:59 left before the half, one they

quickly answered the Bulldog score with a would never relinquish. Drake tacked on 10

27-yard field goal from kicker Brad Smith 9 points before the halftime horn to take
07 a 30-17 score and all the momentum into the

. . . locker room.
On the ensuing possession, Davidson cor-

nerback Patrick FitzGerald ’08 recorded his Turnovers and missed opportunities cost
Ley: . . the ’Cats in the second half.

fifth interception of the season and took it 26 : .

yards the other way to the Drake 41. A failed field goal at the start of the third
The pick fueled the ’Cats, and Davidson quarter would prove to be the last real scor-

converted the turnover into seven points. ing chance for Davidson.

Quarterback Ryan Alexander ’08 found a

crossing Jake Rice ’06 with a sharply thrown

ball. Rice, trying to

get to the corner and

turn up field,

See Football, page 13

a kill on the last point. Davidson ended game three with
a decisive 30-19 score, and with that the ’Cats took the
match 3-0.

Williamson led the Wildcats with 13 kills, while
Pierucci followed close behind her with 11. No Phoenix
player had greater than eight kills,

On Sunday, Davidson hosted UNC-Greensboro and
won its second match of the weekend. The Wildcats out-
hit the Spartans with a .217 hitting percentage and had
leads of greater than 10 points in two of the three games.

The ’Cats ran away with a quick 11-4 lead following a
kill by Neale. They continued to score until they had an
11-point spread at 25-14. From there, kills from Dykstra
and Williamson, along with many attacking errors from
the UNC-G squad helped Davidson take game one with
a score of 30-19.

The Spartans combined in games one and three for 22
attacking errors, which, added to the high number of kills
for Williamson, caused much of their undoing in the
match.

In the second game, Greensboro looked to reverse the
advantage and jumped out to an early 12-8 lead.
Williamson came up big for the "Cats, however, and put
away two kills. Dykstra then made a kill and tied the
game at 12-all.

Davidson went on to take the lead, but a bad set from

See Volleyball, page 15

The ’Cats have won five of their last seven games.

Player ofthe Week = PLAYOF THE WEEK —

Liz Williamson ‘o7

Volleyball Ben Hoak’s goal against Wofford
Hometown: Austin, Texas
Major: Political Science Having lost consecutive games to Old Dominion and
Williamson has led the ‘Cats in kills for seven straight Virginia Tech and not having scored in either game,
games, recording 26 kills in her last two games alone to the ‘Cats needed a lift. Ben Hoak ‘o8 provided that lift
help volleyball to victories against conference foes Elon and * in the 64th minute of last Saturday’s game against
UNC-Greensboro. The ‘Cats are now 5-2 in their last 7 games Wofford when he broke a 0-0 tie and gave men’s soc-

and have started SoCon play with a record of 3-1. cer a 1-0 win in their conference opener.

PEE CCN 8 CoC RSE E OS NE  PO Se ners

