THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005 7

Spices of India in Charlotte

By KATHERINE SORRELL AND
MICHELLE LEVIN-CROWLEY
Staff Writers

Ever have a nagging craving for a masala
dosai or chai tea? Ever find yourself with a
hankering for carrot halwa or a coconut
uthappam? Yeah, you know you do.

After three and a half months on_ the
Davidson in India program, enjoying the
splendid and unique cuisine of South India, I
definitely get an occasional craving for aloo
gobi, paneer masala, and mango lassi. My
cravings, however, usually begin a very
mournful process of reminiscing, of remem-
bering intimate meals around wooden tables,
of eating with my hands, of the men who
served us food every morning, afternoon,
and evening, of tea breaks to burn our
tongues in the middle of hot Indian after-
noons. Sure, my India days are over (at least
for the. time-being), but my Indian food days
are only just beginning.

By the end of last
semester, I still could-
n’t tell you the differ-
ence between roti,
parantha, and poori (all
types of Indian breads)
to save my life, and I
still needed a consis-
tent supply of water to
avoid crying my way
through every bite of
Indian spice, but I
grew to love the rice
and lentils, the rich
sauces, and the amaz-
ing ability of Indian
food to combine just about anything and
make it taste good. So, when I returned to the
U.S., I started browsing Indian restaurants to
satisfy my endless cravings and provide a
fun way to reminisce—with food, of.course.

Any Indian food expert (or wanna-be) will
tell you that Woodlands is a great place to get
that spicy fix. Located on Albemarle Road,
just off Independence, in the heart of
Charlotte, Woodlands sits near several other
ethnic restaurants, including a Middle East
deli and several Hispanic restaurants. It
remains tucked away in an unassuming
building, but the restaurant offers superior
service and an elegant setting, complete with
white tablecloths and wine glasses. This is a
place, however, where you can eat with your
hands. .

Woodlands is authentically Indian, dis-
playing Indian religious figures, including
Shiva and Buddha, and Indian art. They also
play Baliwood music, to the great delight of
those closet Baliwood fans who can’t help
but tap their foot under the table to that irre-
sistible beat. Most importantly, the food

What are you doing this summer?

Colorado College Summer Session offers:

Mongolia, Peru, and Spain

Chai is a flavorful blend of black tea,
milk, and various spices that include cin-
namon, nutmeg, and ginger.

* Over 60 courses in over 30 departments

* Experiential learning throughout the American Southwest and across the globe
including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, England, Germany, Italy, Japan,

* Dance, music, voice, drama, and film intensives taught by nationally and
irteenatienaly:) known professionals

tastes like Indian food. Woodlands manages

to avoid Americanizing their unique cuisine °

to make it more appealing to non-Indians.
Rather, the food remains spicy, hot, and deli-
ciously good. It’s perfect for those people
brimming with memories of India like me,
but it’s also a delightful experience for those
who’ ve never set foot in India, or outside the
United States, for that matter. If you fall into
the latter category, I encourage you to
explore, try new things, and. eat with your
hands (especially if, like me, you never real-
ly could get that whole chopstick thing down
at the Chinese restaurants). In fact, we have
a few tips for some hand-to-mouth tech-
niques.

A Beginner’s Guide to Eating With Your
Hands:

1) This applies to all saucey dishes that
come with rice. So, first, dip some rice onto
your plate and then cover the rice with your
dish of choice (i.e.: paneer masala, aloo gobi,
or rasam).

2) Stick your
fingers into the
concoction on
your plate and use
the sticky rice to
form a_ ball
around the main
saucey main dish.
This ball should
be bite size.

3) Cup your
hand and dig all
of your fingers
except your
thumb under the
rice ball.

4) Bring the cupped hand to your mouth,
open your mouth, and use your thumb to
push the ball of food into your mouth from
behind.

5) Alternatively, you can use bread to
scoop food off of your plate.

If this exercise sounds a little too sensual,
get over it. Eating Indian is dining for the
senses.

Another recommendation from a new
timer to this cuisine is to drink the Indian tea,
a.k.a. chai tea. Not only will it soothe your
nerves, but it’s a great aperitif and digestif,
or before and after drink.

Last tip: try the masala dosai. It’Il take you
straight to India—for the first, second, or
tenth time.

Woodlands Vegetarian South
Indian Cuisine features entrees
under $10 and is located at
7128 Albemarle Road in
Charlotte, NC.

Once again, |
answer questions
posed by mem-
bers of the
Davidson
communi-

ty.

From a
male stu-
dent: How
do you last
longer while
having sex? In other words, how can I
prevent coming too early?

First of all, realize how common prema-
ture ejaculation is, especially among college-
age men. Nearly all men experience prob-
lems with premature ejaculation at some
time in their sexual lives. In fact, premature
ejaculation is by far the most common sexu-
al dysfunction of men under age 40.

Why do men experience premature ejacu-
lation? The most common reason is that
teenage boys learn to masturbate quickly and
in secret, which leads to speedy ejaculations.
While this may be desirable for masturbato-
ry pleasure, it oftentimes isn’t so for sexual
pleasure.

Rest assured that premature ejaculation is
rarely a physical problem in college-age
men. More often, it’s just that you’ve been
training your body to do the wrong thing.
The answer in fixing the problem is relative-
ly simple: train your body to do what you
want it to do.

The two most common techniques used to
prevent premature ejaculation are the stop-
and-start method and the squeeze technique.
Essentially, the stop-and-start method entails
bringing yourself, via masturbation or with a
partner, to what many have called “the point
of no return” and then stopping. You contin-
ue to do this several times over many weeks
or months, and gradually the time between
starting and stopping will, in theory, become
longer.

The same is true of the squeeze method,
except, as you would imagine, you squeeze
the tip of the penis when you are about to
ejaculate, which will force blood out of the
penis to lessen the erection. Check other reli-
able resources or information at the Student
Health Center for more thorough explana-
tions.

Other common suggestions for dealing
with premature ejaculation include regulat-

On premature

ejaculation,
oral sex, and

the morning after pill

ing your breathing during sex to relax your-
self. Again and again, urologists say that the
problem is almost always mental: hesitance,
anxiety, embarrassment, nervousness. Cope
with these issues first, and odds are you will
be able to last longer. Good luck.

From a female student: I get the feeling
that when I perform oral sex, the guy isn’t
really enjoying it that much. I enjoy doing
it, but I am not sure if he does too. A lot of
my girlfriends have said they have experi-
enced the same thing. How can we per-
form oral sex better?

Well, the first thing to do is to talk to the
guy! As trite as it sounds, the answer is more
often communication than anything else.
Ask him if he is enjoying what you are
doing. If not, what is it about the oral sex that
he doesn’t find pleasurable? And being com-
fortable together, preferably in some mean-
ingful relationship, always makes any sexual
experience better.

Perhaps an awareness of the anatomy of
the penis could help, though. Know that the
most sensitive area of the penis is the head.
In particular, the area under the base of the
erect penis is especially sensitive.

Most males, however, appreciate attention
paid to the entire length of the penis and even
the surrounding area, though it is extremely

_ careful to be both sensitive and receptive to
his reactions. Any warm, soft, wet place is
highly arousing for many men, but know that
exploration during oral sex often increases
arousal for both partners. '

How do you get the morning-after pill
on campus?

Good question. Call the Student Health
Center at extension 2300 at any time of day
or night. If it is after-hours, follow the
instructions to get to the nurse on call.

You have 72 hours to take the pills, and
Georgia Ringle usually requests that the
woman actually come in for a brief talk with
her about choosing the best contraceptive.

For off campus assistance, please call 1-
866-942-7762.

Arousingly,
Dr. Secksgawd

got questions? email
davidsonian@ davidson.edu

Peninsula China Bistro
704. 987-2299... — 3 on

“Each entrée a masterpiece...
Heidi Edidin, “The Wandering Gourmet”

: Crossland Centre at Jetton Village 5

+ as

Fine Wines e Full Bar c
Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere
Reservations Accepted
Carryout
FREE DELIVERY (min $20)
LUNCH HOURS
Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00 e Sun 12:00-3:00
Catawba Ave DINNER HOURS |
19906 N a Rd Comelius ras atsoore ea o- |
|

