10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 6, 2005

Staff Editorial

Alcohol proposal problematic

The Alcohol and Drug Policy Review, whose provisions are
scheduled to be voted on by the CCRL on April 12, mentions a
concern that “stricter alcohol policies and more severe sanctions
would encourage drunk driving by encouraging students to do
their drinking off campus.”

Yet the committee’s recommendations encourage just that. Its
stricter risk management policies on Patterson Court will encour-
age students, particularly those in fraternities and eating houses, to
take their parties off campus. If enacted, the proposed changes
would make throwing Court parties significantly more cumber-
some, expensive, and frustrating.

Citing the complexity of the current system as a reason for
reviewing the policy, the recommendation has extended beyond an
attempt to clarify the rules. It has taken the initiative to make them
considerably more confining.

The number of students allowed at a party before a Risk
Manager is needed has dropped from 40 to 30. At 60, two Risk
Managers, a primary ID checker, and a primary bartender are
required, whereas no requirement existed here in the past. A police
officer is still required for parties of 80 or more people.

Alarmingly, these rules would now encompass all types of par-
ties. The policy eliminates distinctions between advertised parties,
impromptus, closed date functions, and members-only parties. All
will fall under the attendance guidelines stated above.

From a practical standpoint, adhering to these guidelines is
nearly impossible. Recruiting volunteers and officers for Court
parties requires planning. Impromptu gatherings, by nature, often
do not. If, for instance, more than thirty people — less than the
amount of members in many houses — show up at a house on a
given night, they must find an unoccupied and willing Risk
Manager, or the party will be shut down. Risk Managers are diffi-
cult enough to find in advance.

Expecting those students to call it a night or disperse is simply
unrealistic.

While disrupting the ability of Patterson Court members to
gather informally at their own houses, the changes place further
restrictions on private formal functions that are meant to be just
that: private.

With the distinction between regular parties and date and mem-
bers-only parties eliminated, houses with more than 30 members
will no longer be able to socially convene as an exclusive group.
Date functions will also suffer from the intrusive presence of out-
siders, potentially increasing resentment for those who are only
supposed to help. On campus events will no longer be an attrac-
tive option for such functions.

Ultimately and unfortunately, off-campus parties may become
the only alternative in situations that call for privacy or flexibility.
When parties go off campus, the risk of students driving drunk
increases.

This should not be a change the administration, or the student
body, permits to take place.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor

Mike Giglio

News Editors

Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams

Yowl Editor

Brendan Parets

Sports Editors

Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

« LETTERS TO THE EDITOR «

Giving due
credit to RSC

I am incredibly surprised at the sway
of attitude toward the Royal
Shakespeare Company’s production of
Julius Caesar.

Any disappointment concurrent with
the performance is solely due to one’s
own lack of knowledge and interpreta-
tion.

To expect THE Royal Shakespeare
company to perform Caesar in typical
garb, spoon-feeding the audience
exactly what we expect to see from a
junior high production, is underestimat-
ing the Company’s proficiency.

Hanna, the Assistant Director of the
production, had actually lived in Russia
for a number of years, so her interpreta-
tion of Caesar's Rome as parallel with
Putin's Russia is a refreshing reenact-
ment of what many assume to be just a
historical reiteration of Herodotus'
Histories.

A refreshing
reenactmeut.

I hesitate to praise a play that trans-
ports what I believe to be immaculate
playwriting into our own time period,
but the Company did not condescend to
make a sitcom of Caesar. The leather
jackets did nothing to detract from the
murderous minds and carnivorous coup
of Cassius and Co.

On a more positive note, Julius
Caesar , as shown by the RSC was an
impressive, awing redesign that
revealed its tech support and special
effects to the audience. The acting was
superb, as to be expected.

One sensed the struggling restraint as
Brutus fought with himself over
whether he should love Caesar or Rome
more.

If this distinguished interpretation

did not impress this audience, then per-
haps we should heed the words of
Antony, for we are not stones.

Paige Taylor ’08

The real facts
about China

In Halley Aelion’s column (Mar. 25,
“America is not ‘king of the world’”),
she wrote “the European Union looking
to facilitate diplomatic relations
between China and the rest of the
world, is ready to initiate more eco-
nomic ties.”

She states that Europe's plan is
“advantageous to all” but is being
stymied by the Bush administration,
which, by “trying to hold a foreign
power to our national standards,” is
getting “in the way of any actual
progress towards true democracy.”
These statements are somewhat mis-
leading.

The “economic ties” that the Bush
administration so naughtily opposes
are, more specifically, sales of sophisti-
cated weaponry to China. The sale of
these weapons is certainly not advanta-
geous to Taiwan, for one, which relies
on military technology as an equalizer
in deterring numerically superior
Chinese forces. Upsetting this balance

is also destabilizing and potentially”

devastating for the entire region.

It is also important to note that the
Bush administration is not fighting for
a change in EU policy, but against one.
The administration is arguing that
Europe should not lift its self-imposed
embargo on weapons sales to China.

These sanctions were initiated after
the 1989 Tiananmen Square incident,
where death toll estimates from the
government crackdown range from the
hundreds to the thousands, not includ-
ing those executed afterwards for
organizing that fateful summer’s pro-

democracy demonstrations.

A desire for governments to refrain
from killing large numbers of their own,
peacefully demonstrating citizens is not
a value only Americans adhere to and is
integral to any “true democracy.”

I was perplexed by some of Halley

. David Crane ’06
Don’t reward

Iran for nukes

Aelion’s comments concerning
American foreign policy. None caused
me so much confusion, however, as
her opinions regarding Iran.

Aelion suggests that “if we want to
avoid danger we need to focus on mak-
ing friends with those who have the
power to harm us.” This is a wonderful
idea. I would be delighted if, in her next
column, she would present a basic out-
line of how the U.S. might engender an
amiable relationship with a government
that a) denies the existence of Israel, b)
refers to our country as “the Great
Satan,” and c) is potentially construct-
ing a covert nuclear weapons program.

Perhaps the frustration resulting from
efforts to devise such an idealistic strat-
egy will lead her to the realization
that we cannot simply “make friends”
with a government that wants to see our
destruction. Enter the president’s reluc-
tance to offer Iran “carrots” without
wielding some sort of “stick.”

The columnist’s understanding of the °
administration’s policy towards Iran
would further benefit from a re-reading
of the children’s book “If You Give a
Mouse a Cookie.” For those unfamiliar
with the story, the lesson to be learned
is that the mouse will next want a glass
of milk, and so on. There must be con-
sequence for non-compliance when
dealing with an issue as serious as
nuclear weapons.

Jarred Taylor ’07

‘Heavens no’ to public religous display

By JC BoyLe

Staff Columnist

The Terri Schiavo defeat spells problems for the Christian
right, who have two other cases pending decision at the
Supreme Court, both symbolic of everything they stand for.
Yes, the Ten Commandments are back, standing not for the
rule of law or the role of religious heritage in America’s
foundation, as their supporters would have us believe, but for
paralyzing obedience to an antiquated code even less rele-
vant than that of Hammurabi.

This time Texas and Kentucky are fighting to keep the Ten
Commandments on public grounds, but they aren’t the only
ones hungry for an outcome favorable to fundamentalists.
The inhabitants of what Mencken called the “Sahara of the

. Bozart” want this desperately. But why? Do they genuinely

believe that the installation on public grounds of the back-
bone of the Mosaic code will make every citizen a saint?
Heavens no.

The only commandment they care for is the first, and by
promoting all ten, their only hope is that the people and the
state will be cowed into believing that their God is the only
one, and that no one shall have any gods before Him.
Sacrilegious to the concept of America, they deem the first
commandment more important than the First Amendment
and aim to shun every citizen who feels otherwise.

For the Supreme Court to endorse taxpayer-sponsored Ten
Commandments monuments, it would set precedent to fur-
ther alienate religious minorities. It would be an endorsement
of monotheism in general and the Judeo-Christian variety in
particular. It would be a sacrifice of the country’s virtues on
an altar of misguided morality. - 7

In short, it would send America spiraling straight to hell,
and far faster than the country will go if it only abides by the

parts of the Ten Commandments it already does. The simple
proof the commandments aren’t needed is that only two of
them fully translate into American laws, while a third (bear-
ing false witness) is only a law in special circumstances.
There are more obscenities derived from religion than there
are laws from the Ten Commandments.

Since all societies, even those not blessed with Ten
Commandments monuments, condemn murder and theft, it is
absurd to argue that the commandments influenced
America’s legal system, or any non-theocratic government.
In fact, government employees, more often than not, are
more sinful than the general populace, a fact dating back mil-
lennia. Despite the fact that “he who hath been wounded in
the stones,” in the parlance of Deuteronomy’s times, “shall
not enter into the congregation of the Lord,” eunuchs have
always been able to penetrate Christian-dominated govern-
ments, starting out as chamberlains in Constantine’s time and
evolving into today’s Democratic Party.

It is obvious, therefore, that history is not an accomplice to
fundamentalism and that by claiming the contrary, Ten
Commandments supporters are guilty of an all-too-pre-
dictable willful ignorance.

Since-all their arguments are fictions, having failed the
Lemon Test, it is clear the fundamentalists are only using the
Ten Commandments as a stepping stone to theocracy. This
may sound like exaggeration, but look at the track record —
they want Christian documents in city halls and courthouses,
organized prayer in schools, antiquated morality inscribed in
the Constitution. They’re just one test case away from being
able to do these things with impunity, and it shouldn’t be
allowed to happen.

JC Boyle is a freshman classics major from Atlanta, Ga.
Contact him at jcboyle @ davidson.edu.
