THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 5

Park, from page 1

“He [Dr. Park], of course, is a pleasure to
work with,” Senior Interlibrary Loan
Assistant Joe Gutekanst said. “To me, he is
and has always been the type of boss that
never feels that his position is something he
‘holds’. It is something he shares and uses to
support others. In a way, it is something he
‘gives away’ to the library staff. The staff
knows that this ‘giving away’ is something
he doesn’t have to do. It’s something he
believes in. And by giving his position
away, he has increased it immeasurably
among us.”

Student employees in the library also feel
the effects of Park’s leadership even if they
dg not work with him on a day-to-day basis.

“His love of his job and his devotion to the
library are evident in how much all of our
bosses love him and also in how smoothly
the library runs,” Bree Berry ’08 said. “I
know that everyone who works in the library

is deeply saddened by his retirement and that

we’ll miss him immensely.”
Park was born in Louisiana and raised i in
Orlando, FL.

“If you're looking for a walking
icon that represents Davidson, for
over two decades it’s been Leland
Park. His retirement should be a
sadness milestone in the life of the
college.”

--President Bobby Vagt

“I attended prep school in Tennessee, and
then I came to Davidson as a student in
1959,” he said.

As a freshman at Davidson, Park devel-
oped a passion for Southern history after tak-
ing a class with Dr. Davidson. He also
worked for Dr. Davidson in the library to
earn extra money while studying at the

Park helps a student with the card catalogue in 1971.

Spellings, from page 1

ly hectic schedule, we [the executive staff]
were pleased by and grateful for Secretary
Spellings’ very gracious and prompt reply,”
President Vagt explained. “She was our first
-choice speaker; there was no number two.”
At this time, the college has not requested
any information concerning the title or the
contents of Spellings’ address, but Vagt
anticipates that she will discuss the impor-
tance of accountability in higher education.

“[Secretary Spellings] was our
first-choice speaker; there was no
number two.”

--President Bobby Vagt

Spellings’ visit to Davidson’s campus is
especially timely. On September 19, she
announced the formation of the Secretary of
Education’s Commission on the Future of
Higher Education.

This 19-member panel will formulate a
national strategy to address the issues of
accountability among post-secondary insti-
tutions and the role that the federal govern-
ment should play in the nation’s system of
higher education.

While the decision to invite Spellings to
Davidson preceded the official inception of
the new federal commission, the college’s
executive board knew of the impending
announcement prior to the start of its speak-
er selection process.

The formation of the commission antici-
pates an increase in the number of students
attending colleges and universities. The
commission’s goals include meeting the
United States’ future economic and work
force needs, maintaining the nation’s posi-
tion as a world leader in academic research,

and providing all students -with opportunities
to attend post-secondary institutions and to
pursue the careers of their choice. .

In a Department of Education press
release, Spellings emphasized that the com-
mission “should send students a clear mes-
sage: If you work hard, you can go to college
regardless of how much money your parents
make.” .

Charles Miller, former Chairman of the
University of Texas System Board of
Regents, will head the Commission, which
will include former governor of North
Carolina James B. Hunt, Jr. and university
presidents, CEOs, policymakers, and
researchers. The commission will meet for
the first time on October 17 in Washington,
D.C.

Confirmed in her current position on
January 20, 2005, Spellings formerly served
as Assistant to the President for Domestic
Policy during President George W. Bush’s
first term, during which time she was instru-
mental in crafting the No Child Left Behind
Act. Prior to her time in the federal govern-
ment, Spellings served as a Senior Advisor to
then-Governor Bush during his term in
Texas.

The college hopes that students and their
parents will attend Fall Convocation as a part
of Parents’ Weekend activities on campus.

“Tn a community where time is a commod-
ity, it is difficult to get people to attend,”
Vagt said. “I’m hoping that the fact that
Margaret Spellings is speaking will get peo-
ple to come. This is a woman who is creating
a committee to assess higher education.”

In addition to speaking at Convocation,
Secretary Spellings, who is the first mother
of school children to serve as the federal
Secretary of Education, is expected to attend
a luncheon after the ceremony and will then
enjoy the Parents’ Weekend festivities with
her daughter, a first-year student.

College.

He recalls volunteering to open the library
every morning one semester.

“T volunteered so that I could actually say
that I did it, but I am not really a morning
person,” Park said. “Morning is now a time
to sit at home with a cup of coffee and check
your emails. After that one semester, I was
finished working mornings at the library.”

After graduating from Davidson, Park
studied for his master’s degree in library sci-
ences at Emory University. He obtained his
doctorate from Florida State University.

The strong bond Park shared with the for-
mer director Dr. Davidson brought him back
to Davidson in 1967 after serving in the
army and working for a year as a reference
librarian in Charlotte.

He accepted the position of Director of the
Library in 1975.

“Everyone needs a library in their
life, and the library at Davidson is
singular for its commitment to
uphold values and the Honor
Code. The administration, faculty,
and students support the library in
a truly remarkable way. This is a
special place.”
--Leland Park,
Director of the Library

For Park, the library directorial position
implies a stewardship of the ideals that sup-
port the college’s foundation.

“Everyone needs a library in their life,”
says Dr. Park, “and the library at Davidson is
singular for its commitment to uphold values
and the Honor Code. The administration,
faculty, and students support this library in a
truly remarkable way. This is a special
place.”

Park serves as head marshal during the
class of 1994’s graduation.

The college administration has provided
tremendous support to the library by increas-
ing its budget annually, enabling the college
to offer an outstanding collection to its
patrons.

“It’s amazing how the college views this
library,” Dr. Park said. “Even the two build-
ings, Chambers and the library, they speak to
each other. In 39 years, I have never once
dreaded coming to work.”

The college has selected a committee
composed of faculty that will begin the
process of searching for Park’s successor.
Park said he has offered to assist in the
search process in any way the administration
desires. .

“My hope,” he said, “is that my successor
will build well on this wonderful founda-
tion.”

=

LAK NORMAN

Quality repair by people who care!
Confused about where to have your vehicle repaired?

Lake Norman Auto & Tire Center

is your “One Stop Repair Shop”
We value all our customers and guarantee all
work for 14 months or 14,000 miles.

Call Lake Norman Auto & Tire for “free” consultation
on any problem you may have with your vehicle.

Lake Norman Auto & Tire offers a
| 10% Labor Discount
to ALL DAVIDSON Students,
Faculty, and Staff!
Additionally, we will provide shuttle service
back to campus.

Give us a call at
704-892-6590
or email at
service @lakenormanauto.com
for consultation or to make an appointment!

18705 Statesville Rd
‘Fax 704-892-6596

