THE DAVIDSONIAN

Trustees, continued from page 1

heritage.

“Tt just doesn’t make sense to me how
opening the board to non-Christians doesn’t
weaken our traditions,” said Smith. “Trying
to couch this in the Reformed tradition is
very insulting to me.”

Many other trustees did accept the argu-

ment that allowing non-Christians on the’

board did not lessen Davidson’s Christian
heritage.

Rev. John Rogers ’63, a Presbyterian min- .

ister and trustee who had originally voiced
concern about opening the board to non-

“I was against the change and I
got voted down. I think Davidson
ought to remain a Christian school
governed by Christians.”

--John Belk ’43

Christians, voted in support of the change.

“T don’t think Davidson has acted in a way
-to distance itself from its Christian commit-
ment at all,” said Rogers. “This is consistent
with our Reformed tradition and shows a
confident, critical openness to other perspec-
tives.”

News

Rogers did, however, accept that there
could be significant disagreement over such
complex theological issues.

“I_don’t think there was a right side and a
wrong side in this issue,” he said. “This is a
matter about which people of good faith can
disagree.”

Stacking the deck?

~ Smith believes that the process of this
change was biased in favor of getting rid of
the Christian requirement for trustees.

Specifically, Smith pointed to the fact that
Roy Davis ’55, the trustee who chairs the
standing Committee on Campus and
Religious Life and who had been opposed to
changing the requirement, was not appointed
as part of the ad-hoc committee that ulti-
mately recommended getting rid of the
requirement.

“It seems obvious that you would include
Davis since he’s the chairman of the standing
committee, but he was not invited to join,”
said Smith.

McCartney, who appointed the members
of the ad-hoc committee, said there was no
deliberate attempt to bias the committee’s
ultimate recommendation by excluding
Davis or through any other means.

“I, by no means, intended to snub Roy

Davis,” McCartney said. “I did specifically
want the trustees who are currently pastors to
serve on that committee, and both John
Rogers and Art Ross agreed. Other than that
T just wanted to ensure there was adequate
representation from alumni-elected trustees
and alumni ex-officio trusteés.”

“My view of the process was it
was basically someone’s personal
agenda to get this rule changed
and the process was orchestrated
to get that end.”

--Steve Smith ’66

Davis, who ultimately was one of the five
trustees to vote against the change, did not in
any way feel he was deliberately excluded
from the process or that the selection of the
committee was biased.

“When this issue came up John
[McCartney] told me that he had considered
asking me if I would serve, but knowing I
had recently served on two other ad hoc
committees, he felt I had done enough serv-
ice on ad-hoc committees,” Davis said. “I am
convinced that there was no ulterior motive
by my not being asked to serve on the com-

Amnesty International launches Darfur
humanitarian crisis awareness campaign

By AMEE PATEL AND Liz BARRY
Editor-in-Chief and News Editor

Amnesty International has launched
campus-wide efforts to raise awareness of
the humanitarian crisis in Darfur, a western
region in Sudan, where, according to the

U.S. State Department, genocide is taking

place.

According to a recent CNN report, over
200,000 civilians have died, and two mil-
lion more have been displaced from their
homes since early 2003. The United
Nations has labeled Darfur as the “worst
humanitarian crisis in the world.”

Paul Rusesabagina, the real-life hero of
the acclaimed film Hotel Rwanda, will
deliver a speech entitled “Hotel Rwanda: A
Lesson Yet to be Leamed, ” on Sunday in
the 900 room.

He will connect his story with present-
day African conflicts and international for-
eign policy.

Associate Professor of Political Science

Ken Menkhaus teaches a seminar entitled
“Humanitarianism and War” and commented
on the importance of Rusesabagina’s visit.

“He is a living reminder of the power an
individual can have in saving lives,”
Menkhaus said. “That’s what is being
demanded of us and our leaders.”

After the Rwandan genocide of 1994,
leaders around the world uttered the words
“Never Again” and vowed to prevent future
genocides from occurring.

“Certainly the parallel between the geno-
cide in Rwanda and the situation in Darfur is
compelling,” Menkhaus said. “Now is the
moment the world’s commitment to never
again allow genocide is being tested.”

In conjunction with Rusesabagina’s talk,
Amnesty International has set up a table in
the Union through Friday where student can
learn about the situation in Darfur and con-
tribute to lobbying efforts.

Davidson students will be encouraged to
call their senators and ask them to support
the Darfur Accountability Act, which calls

for direct U.S. and international action to
confront the crisis.

Nate Shestak ’07, who spearheaded
“Darfur at Davidson,” explained the goals
of Amnesty’s efforts.

“We would like students to become

“[Rusesabagina] is a_ living
reminder of the power an individ-
ual can have in saving lives.
That’s what's being demanded of
us and our leaders.”
--Ken Menkhaus, Associate
Professor of Political Science

aware of where Sudan is, and what is going
cn there,” he said. “Secondly, we are hop-
ing to make some real waves in our lobby-
ing for the Darfur Accountability Act”

Amnesty International is also hosting a
free screening of Hotel Rwanda tonight in
the 900 Room.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005 5

”

mittee.

Alumni letters

Smith’s other objection to the process cen-
tered around what he felt was the inadequate
attention paid to alumni responses to the rec-
ommended changes prior to the trustees’
vote.

Following the ad hoc committee’s recom-
mendation that the Christian requirement for
trustees be changed, the Alumni Association
sent out a packet to all 17,000 Davidson
alumni in December, informing them of the
proposed bylaw changes and asking for their
input.

“The cover letter sent to alumni was very
vague about what was being proposed,” said
Smith. “You had to either look at attach-
ments or go to a website. It was not clear
from the cover letter that the proposal was to
change the trustee religion requirement.”

The cover letter sent to the alumni said,
“The Trustees are considering a series of rec-
ommendations, which were placed before
them at their October meeting, with respect
to the requirements for being a Trustee.”

The cover letter did not specifically men-
tion that the requirement under consideration
was the requirement that all trustees be
Christian; however, the attachments included
in the packet did include the full proposal by
the board.

In response to the packets sent out to the
alumni, the President’s office received 122
written responses prior to the trustees’ vote
on the proposal at their February meeting.

Smith said that he was never given the
opportunity to read those letters carefully
before he was asked to vote, and he believes
that these letters were deliberately withheld
from the board.

“I was left with the distinct feeling that
some people didn’t want these letters to be
seen,” Smith said.

McCartney defended his decision not to
distribute the letters to all members of the
board prior to their vote.

“The ad hoc committee had reported to the
trustees on the number of letters we received
and how many seemed pro or con or neu-
tral,” McCartney said. “It was my assess-
ment, in concurrence with the chair of the
ad-hoc committee, that the trustees had ade-
quate information on which to make their
decision and did not need to receive every
letter.”

Vagt agreed with McCartney’s reasoning
saying, “All of the letters were seen by some
trustees so that when the trustees acted they
felt they were conversant with all the issues.”

Future implications

704-895-4412
Across From
The Movies @ Birkdale
in Beautiful Birkdale Village

STUDENT SPECIAL!

> 2 5 WEEK

2 Mystic Tans

for the price of one.

Despite their resignations, both Belk
and Smith’s feelings towards Davidson
as an institution and towards its student
body have not faltered.

“I’m still in favor of the students and
my money will continue to go towards
the student body, but not towards other
causes,” said Belk in continuing his com-
mitment to the Belk Scholars program,
which, with the class of 2009, now offers
ten comprehensive scholarships to
Davidson College.

Smith voiced his support for the insti-
tution, but said he cannot support the cur-
rent administration.

“The school transcends the current
leadership of the school, but I can’t abide
by a flawed process on something this
important,” he said.

McCartney acknowledged that with
any significant decision there is the
potential for strong disagreement,
regardless of what the Board decides.

“This issue and the outcome represents
a sign of change for Davidson and any-
time there is significant change there is
the risk of disagreement,” said
McCartney. “The result that a number of
our alumni don’t agree with the decision
" |was expected and understandable. I think”
people would have: been disappointed
regardless of what decision was made.”

