2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

N

EWS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

ee
Commons trying to make

nutrition a priority

Courses, from page 1

combined it with “writing across the curricu-
lum,” or teaching writing in multiple sub-
jects.

The faculty considered requiring first-year
students to take an English composition
course but decided that teaching the class
would be an impossible task for the depart-
ment.

“Since content enriches writing, the deci-
sion was to do [writing courses] across the
curriculum,” President Bobby Vagt said.

Davidson used to accept exceptional
scores on the AP English Language exam as
an alternative to taking the course but decid-
ed it was necessary to address the bridge
between high school- and college-level writ-
ing.

“It [the AP English Language credit] does-
n’t prepare you for the range of writing chal-
lenges you’re going to face in college,” said
English professor Shireen Campbell, who is
also the director of the Writing Center. -

Composition classes are currently offered
in most departments, including English, reli-
gion, German, political science, philosophy,
and classics.

Regardless of its academic department, the
W-course encourages written excellence
through different types of writing assign-
ments, including a research paper, and by
emphasizing the importance of revision.

“We've had two days focused on writing
workshops, and we’re doing a peer editing
activity right now,” said Sarah Rhodes ’09,
who is in the Humanities course.

Additionally, each class sets aside time for
a library training visit during which students
can familiarize themselves with the
resources available for research.

Some academic departments, such as
English, expect each professor to teach a W-
course in the subject, while other depart-
ments rely on professors who offer to teach.

Often, both full-time and visiting profes-
sors undergo the experience of teaching one
such course. ,

“We have and continue to use excellent
short-term and longer-term professors,” Ross
said.

The W-course offerings change slightly
each academic year as a result of some not
being offered consecutive years as well as
the addition of new course options.

New courses must be approved by the col-
lege composition committee, which consists
of Dean Ross, Campbell, religion professor
and W-course coordinator Trent Foley, the
English chair, the director of the Humanities
Program, and usually a faculty member from
the social sciences and mathematics.

Although Ross notes that W-courses are an
integral part of the Davidson academic expe-

rience, he recognizes a few concerns about

‘them.

“It’s difficult to balance [the subject mate-
rial] and decide how much content to teach
and how much writing to teach,” he said.
“Inevitably, you have to sacrifice some of the
content.”

Foley, who currently teaches a W-course
entitled “Religion in the Movies,” agrees.
According to Foley, an emphasis on course
readings would overburden students and
detract from the desired focus on written
samples.

“The real center of these courses for me is
the paper writing,” Foley said.

Despite the difficulty of teaching writing
within the constraints of another academic
subject, many W courses satisfy more than
just the composition requirement.

“A W-course that only confers the writing
requirement [and does not count toward
completion of the core curriculum] would be
less in demand than one that confers both,”
Foley said.

Concerns about W-courses are complicat-
ed by the difficulty of assessing whether
each individual course is preparing students
for future writing.

A student who needs improvement may
feel as if the course has been a great help,
whereas a strong writer might not have
learned as much.

“I had a lot of really good experiences
with English in high school, so I don’t like
the requirement,” said Emily Powell °09,
who is taking “School and Society in the
Novel.”

“Some students feel that they have left the
class with an unrealistic idea of their writing
skills, only to be criticized in future courses.

“Although my composition class taught
me to write originally, which is helpful even
now in my thesis seminar, I don’t think any
one class can prepare you for all the writing
you'll have to do,” Nia Pleasants ’06 said. “I
think it’s something you have to experi-
ence.”

Nevertheless, many students think that the
course has the positive effect of streamlining
skills to enable later classes to expect a cer-
tain level of proficiency.

“I think it’s good to have the course
because people come from so many different
educational backgrounds,” Ellie Strachan
*06 said. ““W-courses ensure that we’re all on
the same page as far as writing abilities.”

Callie Plaxco ’09, who is taking “Possible
Selves,” agreed.

“We've done three papers, and they’ve all
built upon each other,” Plaxco said. “We
learn one skill and then use that skill in the
next paper. Some people do know how to
write an essay, and some don’t. It’s important
to get that foundation.”

Briefly

Rik Myers of the University of Miami’s Department of Biochemistry and Molecular
Biology will speak on “Unsafe sex: The rec(k)-less mechanisms of genetic exchange” at
2:30 p.m. in Room 146 of the Dana Science Building. :

Biology Talk

Symphony Orchestra Concert

The Davidson College Symphony Orchestra will perform at 8 p.m. on October'5 inthe

Duke Family Performance Hall.

foreign language writing: dictionary, thesaurus, corpus” at 4:30 p.m. on October 5 in

Pie

i

By JILLIAN BARTELS
Staff Writer

The renovation of Vail Commons has
made campus nutrition an issue among stu-
dents concerned with making healthy food
choices at Davidson.

Campus Nutritionist Theresa Logan and
Director of Dining Service Dee Phillips said
there are plenty of healthy options and
Dining Services does not need to change
anything about the foods they serve.

“Davidson College Dining Service is one
of the few colleges that actually provides
fresh entrees and vegetables,” Logan said.

With a few exceptions, like the Chicken
Parmesan entree that is frozen and fried,
these fresh foods preserve their nutritive
value. Dining Services also strives to meet
USDA guidelines for healthy food choices.

According to Logan, Davidson’s Dining
Services “works with students in developing
a balanced lifestyle.”

Logan provides a lunch and dinner
“Dieticians Choice” menu everyday for stu-
dents who need guidance on making healthy
food decisions.

This menu shows foods with moderate
carbohydrate, lean protein,.and low fat con-
tent.

Phillips said serving “top quality, nutri-
tious foods is a top priority for Dining
Services,” and feedback from customers is
also important because if no one is interested
in the food options, their nutritional value is
unimportant.

“I feel like students have healthy options
available for them and that’s what counts-
the fact that I can choose something
healthy,” said Lauren Ulrich ’08.

Carolyn Kiss ’08 echoed praise for the
options offered at Commons, but also added
that “sometimes it’s hard to pass up the tasti-
er options.” |

Logan and Phillips both expressed appre-
ciation for the physical renovations at
Commons because they “offer meals to
order, less wait time in lines; and more vari-
ety. ,

The chefs and production crew. prepare
foods for students eating on the run or relax-
ing with friends,” which helps Commons
provide food that fits the busy lives of most
Davidson students.

Logan said the Union Café menu also pro-
vides food choices for “eating on the run,”
but that many of the options should be con-
sumed only rarely.

“All foods can really fit into your diet. Just
remember: everything in moderation,”
Logan said.

For students seeking to avoid the infamous
“freshman 15” or those upperclassmen who
are concerned about their dietary choices,
Logan and Phillips have some advice.

Phillips suggested that students not skip
breakfast and that they should try to cover all
the food groups with each of their meals.

She also advised that students. avoid
“study munching” and late night snacking
and that they work to make healthy snack
choices, like fruit, cheese and crackers

In addition to making good food choices,
Logan and Phillips suggest students get at
least seven to eight hours of sleep every
night, maintain a balanced schedule, try new
activities at and around the College, stay
connected with friends and family, and make
time to relax even with a hectic Davidson
schedule.

First, | studied art history.

Now, | manage operations.

At McMaster-Carr, we welcome all academic backgrounds.
In fact, many ofour successful managers were led bycuriosity to study
such non-business fields as abstract math, biology, or political science.
Others pursued degrees in fields like accounting, computer science, or
industrial engineering. Regardless of their majors, their intelligence,
creativity, and passion for details enable them to thrive here.

Our people have backgrounds and interests as varied as the products
we sell. Conversations around here vary in topic from jib crane
construction, warehouse layout, and developments in the nanotech sector
to post-modern aesthetics, the latest symphony, and baseball playoffs.
This variety of people, ideas, and passions enriches
our workplace and enlivens our thinking.

Our customers know us as a one-stop shop for industrial widgets of
all types and sizes. Our employees know us as a unique business
run like no other. We develop our own catalog and engage in intensive
market research. We write our own software systems in-house.
We.run our operations with passion and precision.

We rely on our own expertise for continual process improvement.

Do you want to continue learning in a vibrant setting?
Our management development career path will teach you our business
and lead to positions of responsibility uncommon for recent college
graduates. Submit your resume today for a campus interview.

Opportunities exist at each of our locations:
Atlanta,GA
Chicago, IL
Cleveland, OH
Los Angeles, CA

_ MAMASTER-CARR.

Resume Submission Deadline: September 30th
Info Session: October 12th, 7:00 pm, Alvarez Union - Rm. 313

