4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a

Students on the 2004 trip to Peru were able to immerse themselves in

Peru, from page 1

suitability.

Two of the courses will be focused on the
Spanish language, of which there will be
several levels of proficiency offered.

Since the program demands no language
prerequisite, beginner students can use these
courses to practice conversation with two
different professors.

A third course will be taught by a Peruvian
professor in English. .

In the case of advanced Spanish students,
direct enrollment in the university will be
considered a means of both enhancing lan-
guage abilities through firsthand experience
and earning additional language credit.

The attending Davidson professor will
teach the fourth course according to his/her
area of academic expertise.

As a result, each semester will assume its
own unique course load tailored to the pro-
fessor’s interests and relevancy of subject
matter.

“It’s a study abroad where there’s a very
strong focus on something other than lan-
guage,” President Bobby Vagt said.
“Because of the way it originated, there will

“Peru is the cradle of Incan civi-
lization, with fascinating history,
culture, and cuisine. [Studying
there] is a real opportunity to get
away from where most students
experience university life in a for-
eign country.”

--Russell Crandall, Assistant

Professor of Political Science

be a strong political and economic focus.”

Spanish majors who participate in the pro-
gram may earn up to four major credits.

“T think it would be such an experience to
go to a program in Peru because they have
such an indigenous population that still
influences life today,” Spanish major Haley
Acuff ’06 said, “but being a Spanish major
with one of my goals being fluent, I. would
most likely still pick studying abroad in
Sevilla because it really helped me get a
solid grasp of my Castilian Spanish.”

Political science professor and co-director
of the program Russell Crandall encouraged
all students to consider Peru as a study
abroad option regardless of their language
experience.

“Peru is the cradle of Incan civilization,
with fascinating history, culture, and cui-
sine,” Crandall said. “It’s a real opportunity
to get away from where most students expe-
rience university life in a foreign country.”

In addition to taking classes, students may
have the option of conducting internships
and participating in Davidson-led travel
excursions throughout the semester.

In particular, three expected week-long
trips to the Andes, coast, and jungle will
emphasize the pivotal natural attractions of
Peru.

A trip to Lima, the capital city, will pro-

NEws

the culture.

vide a focused look at politics, culture, and
human rights; a trip to Cuzco will lay the
foundation for a personalized introduction to
Incan civilization amidst the ruins of
Macchu Picchu; and a foray into the
Peruvian Amazon will direct a study of ecol-
ogy and economic development.

The accessibility of Peru to other countries
would also facilitate students’ decision to
remain after the program’s conclusion in
order to pursue independent travel.

As for mid-semester travel, Crandall
stressed that the Peru program was going to
be “fun and fascinating, but also serious—a
balance of exposure, language, and work
commitment.”

Mangan, Crandall, and Associate
Professor of History John Wertheimer are
initial volunteers for presiding over the pro-
gram, but in keeping with the idea of broad
course options, faculty members of all
departments are welcome to consider going
on the trip.

Giving, from page 3
relief projects at home and abroad,” says
Brown. “It is a big party that has happened
in Chambers Gallery each of the past two
years and has been co-sponsored by the
Adopt-a-Country AIDS Campaign and
Warner Hall eating house.”

The AIDS Ball raised $10,800 last spring

and close to $14,000 in 2004.

Generally Patterson Court organizations
organize more fundraisers than UCA,
Davidson’s umbrella’s organization for com-
munity service. UCA’s major fundraising
event is the Souper Bowl, which is held in
the spring and raises money to fix houses
with Habitat for Humanity.

“(Patterson Court] does more fundraising
for causes, but that doesn’t mean that they
don’t do good service as well,” -Buechler
said. “They are much more philanthropic
because of their nature, their national status.
They embrace causes. Connor does Bosom
Buddies for breast cancer, for example.”

Brown hopes that recent, procedural
changes in the philanthropic process at
Davidson will help students to realize their
goals more efficiently.

“When we changed out policy...we were
concerned about a couple of different
things,” Brown said. “One was to help stu-
dents plan out these activities carefully and
make sure that people weren’t bumping into
each other. We had very similar fundraising
projects happening at the same time, close to
each other.”

Student groups now have to apply before
holding fundraisers. The application process
involves outlining a description of the proj-
ect for the Student Activities Center and
acquiring various faculty signatures.

Brown further requires that students file
revenue/expense statements within seven
days of completing their projects so that the
Student Activities Center can ensure that the
money is going where it is supposed to go.

It is expected that around 14 to 16 students 4...The changes also keep students from

will choose to study abroad in Peru during its .

initial run.

The idea for the program originated in
2001-2002, when Davidson considered
doing a joint program in Santiago, Chile with
Wake Forest University.

“That [the Santiago program] didn’t work
out, but we kept the idea in mind and just
waited until the right city, country, and pro-
gram model came together,” Crandall said.
“Jane Mangan’s arrival in the history depart-
ment last year brought added enthusiasm to
the issue. Both Jane and I are ‘Andeanists,’
so that’s a good reason why we chose Peru.”

The anticipated expansion of Davidson’s
study abroad program has brought about
questions concerning student participation in
programs.

There are currently four locations of study
offered during the academic year. Davidson
offers full-year study in Wurzburg, Germany,
and Tours, France, while the Classics pro-
gram is offered odd-numbered springs and
the India program takes place even-num-
bered falls.

Study Abroad Coordinator Carolyn
Ortmayer confirmed that, while 372 students
chos¢ to study abroad last year, most of these
students relied on other schools for their pre-
ferred course of study.

“About 200 Davidson students participate
in non-Davidson programs per year,”
Ortmayer said.

Assistant Professor of French Leon Sachs,
who served as resident director of Davidson
in Tours during 2004-2005, credits a new
location with potentially influencing stu-
dents to look more closely at the entire pro-
gram as a worthwhile endeavor.

“I think if you go abroad, it will enrich
your experience at Davidson after your
return,” Sachs said.

Before it can be confirmed as a new study
abroad option, the Peru program must be
approved by the International Education
committee, which is made up of students and
faculty, and additional committees formed
through the college.

- WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005

being bombarded with several fundraising
requests at one time.

“We tried to manage the front door of the
Union so that we now limit that space so that
no more than two fundraising projects can be
there at a time,” Brown said. “We had got-
ten to a place where we had too many groups
asking for money.”

Buechler and th¢ Community Service
Office have been trying to regulate student
philanthropic efforts so they do not overlap.

“What we’ve done with [William
Brown’s] office is just try and get communi-
cation happening between the different
organizations on campus,” Buechler said.

“We now limit space so that no
more than two fundraising proj-
ects can be there at a time. We had
gotten to a place where we had too
many groups asking for money.”
--William Brown, Director of the
Union and Student Activities

To make sure Katrina relief efforts do not
compete with each other, the Community
Service Office has been holding weekly
meeting with the heads of Patterson Court,
SGA, and other campus organizations.

“Eventually our goal is to have a consis-
tent meeting time between groups,”
Buechler said. “We want to act as a hub for
all of the community service and philanthro-
py happening on campus.”

Although student groups are constantly
planning fundraisers, direct community serv-
ice is still more popular on campus.

“In my opinion, so many of us love to
work directly with the folks to improve their
community,” Buechler said. “Working on
Habitat, building a house with the folks who
are going to live there, feeds a part of your
soul. With philanthropy, you don’t get that
direct contact...and you need it.”

Live Broad

And

ious

KISS 95.1
10 - Midnighi=-

«
$2 SMIRNOFF iG
$1.50 MILLER LEGS

,
“
*
4 | ;

a)

Oe

te

