16 THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Week Ahead

For you
sports fans...

DROOKIE S PICKS
OF Tie WERBIK

I'd like to use my little corner of
the sports section this week to say
thank you and farewell. I worry. --
lying in bed at night, frightened and
shivering -- that the Davidson
sports fans will be not know what to
watch without my weekly advice,
but there is hope.

Next year I'm passing the torch to
Pierce Trumbo who will certainly
prove to match and surpass my wis-
dom, and to give you, the fans, great
picks and insider information.

For my final issue, I will leave you
with my three wishes for the coming

weeks: 1) I wish the Nuggets will ©

crush the Spurs on their way to an
NBA Championship. 2) I wish my
high school team, the. Durango
Demons, will finally win the
Colorado State - Baseball
- Championship. 3) I wish the execu-
tives will come to their senses and
take me as a first-round pick in the
Fraft (if this doesn't make sense, dis-
regard it). cee os

Best wishes,
_ Drew Brookie

PS. Thanks Wilson. Good times...

S PORTS WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Three weeks ago, my brother and I were
two of the few lucky enough to enter the hal-
lowed ground of golf in Augusta, GA, and
with my apologies to those at Pinehurst, St.
Andrews, and Pebble Beach, I am firmly
convinced the small patch of grass and trees
three hours south of here is the: most beauti-
ful testament to golf anywhere.

I didn’t end up.seeing much golf that
Thursday afternoon, as rain delayed the start-
ing times until 2 p.m., but I didn’t need to see
a single shot from the tee box, fairway or
green to be happy that day. Instead, I wanted
only to walk around the course that I had
seen on TV so many times but never as an
eye-witness.

In the process, I also got to check off
another item on the long list of my life’s to-
do’s. Hopefully, I can have more moments
like my first steps in Augusta National, when
it struck me just how green the grass can
truly be.

So if I may, here are a few of my humble
requests before I say my final good-bye.

-Break 80. I have played golf for almost
10 years now, and I still need more than just
luck to break 100. It takes me a few gimmies
and mulligans to even get close to breaking
triple digits, but I somehow walk out onto
the course every day convinced that I have
turned the corner with my imaginary swing
sessions inside the friendly confines of Belk
141. ;

-Hit a game-winning shot. Pick-up ball
doesn’t count, and there must be a clock.

-Coach a team to a championship. I
worked with a seven and eight-year old bas-
ketball team at the YMCA this winter, and it
was the most fun I’ve had with sports in a
long time. Practices were an hour a week, we
didn’t keep score on game day, and the par-
ents were actually civil. Even better, the girls
were the best players on the team. Someday,
though, I want to coach a team — YMCA,
high school, rec league, or whatever — to a
championship.

-Go skydiving.

-Be there when Davidson wins an NCAA
tournament game. It’s one thing to make it to
the tourney, and I fully expect to see that
shortly, but it’s an entirely different step to
put on Cinderella’s slipper. Next season
could be the year, as Davidson returns most

My final chance to bash

By RICHARD CONNOLLY
Senior Staff Writer

Over my four years at Davidson College I
have called four different abodes home.

It all began on 4th Cannon where we made
hall shirts that read, “‘We’re going to eat your
children.” Next was a Patterson Court apart-
ment that has since been turned into a
women’s bathroom.

Junior spring I found myself at 213
Armour Street amongst a plethora of stray
cats and a neighbor who assaulted my friend
and whose daughter rode around on her tri-
cycle hissing at people. This year it’s been
Flowe, where every other tenant wants to
drop me and my roommates from the third
floor balcony.

Also during my Davidson residency I have
had six different roommates from six differ-
ent states, with an even distribution of three

above and three below the Grits Line.
' So while I'll always be a New England.

boy at heart, the Southern culture has cer-
tainly been forced into my psyche.

I now understand what.it really means to
be polite, why Southern women always gét
what they want (that accent should be classi-
fied as some sort‘of weapon), and that moon-
shine surprisingly makes your nights less
lucid—quite the misnomer there, fellas.

I have pledged my allegiance to several

- different. club sports teams, reaching the

Krom the Sideline

of its core from the group that went 16-0 in
SoCon play in 2005.

-Run with the bulls in Pamplona. We’ll see
if I have the balls to go through with it if the
time ever comes. Only a handful of people
have died in the annual Spanish tradition, but
statistics get thrown out the window when a
600 kg bull is barreling its way down the
street towards you.

-See a game at Yankee Stadium,
Wimbledon, Madison Square Garden, The
Horseshoe, and Lambeau Field. I’ ve already
made it to Fenway, Wrigley, Augusta, and

So if I may, here are a
few of my humble
requests before I say
good-bye.

Cameron Indoor, but those places are only
the beginning of my odyssey to the most
renowned places in sports.

-Run a marathon. I don’t care how fast I
run, but only that I can go from start to fin-
ish without breaking into a walk. Bathroom
breaks don’t count.

-Win the NCAA office pool. If Carolina’s
in, they’re always my pick to win it all. That
plan turned out well this year, but my

regional finals in 2003 with roller hockey
and earning a 2005 Southeastern Lacrosse
League championship with club lacrosse,
which just beat Appalachian State on Sunday
in double overtime.

So what if I only played in four of 12
games, including both losses? Hell, the Red
Sox gave Ellis Burks a ring, and he played in
11 of 178. And he really sucked.

I have taken 27 classes on campus with 21
different teachers and have never had the
same professor more than twice. If one of
them remembers my name a year from now
it will orily be because I still owe an assign-
ment.

And I haven’t officially dated a girl for
more than, like, a night.

But despite my failure to find any consis-
tency in so many aspects of my Davidson
life, in the fall of 2001 I found this newspa-

per and have been with it ever since.

I arrived on campus as a freshman hoping
to play Division I baseball. But due to a
number of circumstances—mainly the fact
that I couldn’t throw and catch as well as the
other boys—the only spot I was offered
included counting pitches during games. As
sweet as that sounded, I politely declined.

My very first article previewed the 2001
women’s soccer season and opened with the
most gut wrenching cliché I could find: “One
good turn deserves another.” Why I was
invited to continue writing after that abomi-

A few small requests before I leave

remaining Final Four picks, Wake Forest,
Illinois, and Duke, weren’t enough to put me
over the top in any of my groups. Usually,
it’s the other vay around when my perennial
championship pick bows out early.

. Hit a baseball. When I was born, I was
diagnosed with coloboma-micropthalmia, an
eye condition that doctors said would at best
allow me to see only light and dark shadows.
I got lucky and beat the odds, but I am still
legally blind with even the best technology
around today. —

I have loved the game of baseball since I
started playing tee-ball at age five, but it
passed me by once machine pitch arrived
and vision became an issue. I would love to
have the chance to play for real some day,
but I will probably have to stick tp the
Braves instead. ;

-Play catch with my own kid. I can’t count
how many hours I’ve spent in my front yard
over the years, tossing a baseball or football
with my dad until it’s too dark to see. My
mom says my brother and I will only talk
with the aid of a ball, and I wouldn’t have it
any other way; there’s something about the
rhythmic motion and the pop of the leather
that puts me at ease, and I will cherish the
moment when I too can have a kid that begs
to hurl the ball around the yard until the sun
goes too far below the horizon.

98 OR AR Ae ok ee oe ee

Since this is the last issue of the year, I’d
also like to take the chance to thank Drew,
my co-editor all year, and the only guy that
could ensure we’d actually go to print before
4 a.m. on Wednesday morning. | still can’t
even import an article using the Quark soft-
ware, much less put together the paper on my
own. ,

Also, I'd like to thank one of my readers in
particular, as he called me out around
November through an e-mail to tell me how
much he disliked my columns. It hurt to hear
his criticism, but he was right; I was usually
just a couple of days behind ESPN.com in
this space every week. Hopefully that’s not
the case anymore.

Finally, I’d like to thank my parents, who
ensured that I’d have at least two readers
every week.

the Yanks

nation remains a mystery.

Over time, though, I developed my own
style, one that many of you may qualify as
egotistical and arrogant.

Still, it’s my own.

I have written close to 100 articles and
columns, covering everything from Lebron
James to Martha Burke, and TiVo to high
school football. Then there was that infa-
mous (read: sophomoric) article explaining
why Davidson should switch to Division III.
Oh, and occasionally I’d write about Boston
sports.

Of course, there have also been those arti-
cles I wanted to write but never did. For
instance, I’ve always wanted to sit down one
Sunday with a case of Budweiser and watch
an entire NASCAR race. Only then—
towards the end of the race and the end of the
case—do I think I’ll understand the sport’s
appeal.

But this is finally it, the end of a long and
sometimes foggy road.

Hard to believe this is my final opportuni-
ty to take cheap shots at Yankees fans or tell
you what my friends and I did this past
weekend.

I suppose I should offer some sentimental
parting line, but like Jerry Maguire, I’m just
not built that way. It’s been a good run, and
for that I’ll be forever grateful.

Goodbye Davidsonian, and thank you,
Davidson College.
