10

PERSPECTIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 20, 2005

Staff Editorial

Remembering a
newspaper man

“It is a newspaper’s duty to print the news and raise hell.”

This quotation by former Chicago Times owner and editor
William Storey became a permanent addition to our wall two years
ago and has been our unofficial motto ever since. It is a reminder
that we have many responsibilities as journalists, primary of which
is not to accept anything at face value.

Professor Chuck Hauser’s short tenure at Davidson left a lasting
impression on this publication and showed us that the newspaper’s
responsibility does not stop at Storey’s witticism.

Professor Hauser brought a lifetime of experience and commit-
ment to the field of journalism. In his 16 years at the Providence
(R.L.) Journal-Bulletin, he raised his fair share of hell. He exposed
a state Supreme Court justice for Mafia ties, and he stood in con-
tempt of court for defending his right to print the news.

As Batten professor on campus this semester, Hauser helped
students make abstract ethical arguments personal. He showed his
students that journalism is not a rigid series of rules, but judgment
call after judgment call based on sound logic and discussion.

His advice might have been intended for students when, in a
few years, they might be budding young journalists in the real
world, but we found it immediately applicable at The
Davidsonian.

When this paper debated breaking with its tradition to endorse
a candidate for SGA President, Professor Hauser supported our
right to do it, even if it ruffled some feathers. He believed the
process could involve more students, fit our role as a newspaper,
and better serve the College, and in doing so, reminded us of the
sensitivities involved in community reporting.

Each week, Professor Hauser would bleed red ink across our
broadsheet, staying after class to talk about ways we could
improve our paper’s look and content. Listening to him, for a
moment we could believe that The Davidsonian was more than a
small college weekly, but something professional. He legitimized
us not as student journalists, but as journalists.

And he held us to those same standards.

Professor Hauser was a crucial influence in inspiring and devel-
oping the forthcoming Code of Ethics for The Davidsonian, which
will be published next week. Expecting Professor Hauser’s time at
Davidson to be only a semester, and not tragically shorter, we set
out to put on paper the lessons learned and wisdom given, so that
next semester and in the ones that follow, his experience would
still influence future editors.

Professor Hauser called things as they were, unbiased by the
institutional perspectives of faculty, administration, or students,
unlike anyone else on campus. He pushed us “to print the news
and raise hell,” in an ethical and socially responsible way.

Future editorial boards will miss the opportunity of having
Professor Hauser as counselor and instigator, as only a true news-
paperman could be.

o

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
-Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams
Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janelle Milanes

-

¢« LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Belk is passive
about Christianity

I can only express regret and mild
surprise regarding Roland Foss’ letter
in last week’s Davidsonian and Mr.
Belk’s decision to remove himself from
the Board of Trustees.

The contention that an all-Christian
board would best serve the needs of
Davidson College seems at best ludi-
crous and at worst sheer bigotry. In my
mind, Mr. Belk’s decision arose from a
distinction -between two _ primary
approaches to Christianity: the active
and the passive. While the Board’s
guidelines define activeness and pas-
sivity according to church membership,
I elect to define these categories
through simple behavior.

The active Christian is a person who
actively puts his Christian beliefs into
force, not by excluding those who are
different but by exercising the central
Christian values of tolerance and love.

turning a blind eye to the cultures of
others is no longer an acceptable prac-
tice.

The decision to open the Board to
non-Christian or “non-active” Christian
faiths is not, as Mr. Foss terms it, a
“sacrifice [of] stability, tradition, and
intellectual fortitude” aimed at getting
recognition from some unnamed out-
side observer. Rather, it is a commend-
able step in the direction of equality
that history will look upon with favor.

Foss’ contention that the move will
hurt fundraising superficially implies
that there can be a material value
placed upon respect for our fellow man.

Mr. Belk’s concept of Christianity
precludes any possibility that perhaps
those of other faiths might be equally
capable of serving Davidson College;
he effectively closes the door to the
idea that perhaps a more representative
perspective could give this institution
the infusion of diversity and active, for-
ward thinking that it severely lacks at
present. I can’t think of anything more

~Alumnus supports

trustee requirement
change and new
professorship

As a Davidson alum, and one-time
professor at the college who strongly
favored the hiring of faculty not of the
Christian faith, I both support the inclu-
sion of non-Christians on the board of
trustees AND the establishment of an
endowed chair in Reformed Theology
in the religion department.

I agree with President Bobby Vagt,
both in making changes that look to the
future and in reaffirming the essence of
past conviction.

It is now up to the trustees and the
administration to give concrete mean-
ing to the Reform tradition at my alma
mater.

The passive Christian stubbornly clings passive than that.

to his own beliefs, refusing to acknowl-
edge that we live in a world in which

The Davidsonian wel-
comes letters to the editor.
Please e-mail submissions

of less than 250 words to

davidsonian @davidson.ed
u. We reserve the right to
edit for content, brevity
and grammar.

Burdensome changes alcohol policy

By BILL SOMMERS

Te Disco i publish Wikies eka thts oa
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per Please
address all to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail
Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411
of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the
"editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
- Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per
Rea Aiprectaieg ois ro eran sed reaeee.

Copyright i is held iy the Trustees of: ‘Davidson College.

—_Guest Columnist

On every college campus, students are going to drink alco-
hol, whether they are 21 or not. With this in mind I will
review the recommendations concerning alcohol policy
given to the College Campus on Religious Life by the
Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task Force.

The college’s concern about drinking on campus is a valid
one, since the school shoulders the financial liability for it.
For this reason, the recommendations by the committee look
to reduce the liability of the school, through more effective
risk management.

The recommendation to CCRL on a new Risk
Management Policy reads, “The Task Force recommends
that rules for risk management of parties be based on atten-
dance rather than party type. Organizations should be

. required to have a sober student Risk Manager in place when °

party attendance reaches 30 people. An additional sober stu-
dent Risk Manager, student ID Checker and student bar-
tender should be put in place when the party reaches 60
attendees and a police officer should be required for parties
of 80 or more students.”

“These changes ... will immensely
increase the fixed cost of having a
social event.”

The effect of these changes on Patterson Court organiza-
tions is twofold. First, this will fmmensely increase the fixed
cost of having a social event. For most houses, a closed func-
tion currently requires one risk manager. If these recommen-
dations are approved the school would now require two risk
managers, a police officer, a bartender and an ID checker.
This would magnify the fixed cost of this type of function by

Rob Heidrick ’06

William E. Jackson, Jr.
Class of ’57

a factor of at least six. This increased cost for organizations
will encourage social functions to be moved off campus, a
dangerous proposition.

Second, these changes throw off the current party designa-
tions of impromptu, closed functions, open parties and mem-
bers-only functions. Impromptu social functions are sponta-
neous, and hardly ever have more than 80 people. The cur-
rent recommendations will force Patterson Court organiza-
tions to plan these functions in advance. So, when an organ-
ization wants to have a spontaneous function, they will have
it off campus or decide not to have it.

The policy review states, “The current risk management
policies are extremely complex, with different rules applying
to different categories of parties. The Patterson Court
Judicial Board frequently hears testimony that groups or
social chairs did not understand the risk management
requirements.” Should an organization decide to throw a
spontaneous function on campus, these new changes make
the rules much more complex. Attendance numbers would
need to be counted throughout the night in order to be in
compliance with this new policy. In effect, social chairs now
would have to guess the attendance of a function days in
advance and decide whether to hire the necessary risk man-
agers, bartenders and ID checkers. If the social chair guesses
wrong, they might have to shut down a party once it hits 60
people or waste $150 on a bartender, risk manager and ID
checker.

What should the school be doing now, though? I call on
President Vagt to reject this specific recommendation,
whether or not it has been modified by CCRL. Instead, there
should be a panel for a more transparent discussion about the
issue of alcohol use on campus. This panel should attempt to
balance concerns over student safety with the school’s finan-
cial liability.

re Sommers is a sophomre history major from Houston,
. Contact him at bisommers @davidson.edu.
