THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005 7
Mental warfare proves tougher than combat

eee
©

re

sas ga,

‘Jarhead’ stars Jake Gyllenhaal, pictured, and Academy Award winner Jamie Foxx
both endure a physical and psychological combat overseas.

By STEVE KALISKI
Senior Staff Writer

Say what you want about Sam Mendes’
“Jarhead” being the definitive war film for
the Desert Storm generation. Considering its
courageous and hip leading actors, its decid-
edly unromantic tone, and its fashionably
cynical political statements, maybe it is the
quintessential picture for America’s linger-
ing Iraqi conflict.

Still, this disturbing, affecting film from
the director of “American Beauty” and
“Road to Perdition” succeeds far more
resoundingly than simply as an anti-war

film. An unnerving depiction of the violent
depths of boredom, “Jarhead” should res-
onate powerfully with anyone who has ever
experienced the agonizing sensation of use-
lessness in the wake of enormous expecta-
tions.

Those expecting rousing combat
sequences will leave the theater disappoint-
ed; “Jarhead” focuses far more attention on
psychological confrontations than on physi-
cal ones.

Like many of his fellow naive young patri-
ots, Tony Swofford (Jake Gyllenhaal) joins
the Marines with the certainty that his mili-
tary determination will leave a permanent

.imprint on the battlefield. When the Gulf

War appears on the horizon, Swofford and
his sniper company— including his Staff Sgt.
Sykes (Jamie Foxx) and his new friend Troy
(Peter Sarsgaard)—travel to Iraq hoping that
they will actively contribute to a thunderous
American victory.

What they actually encounter in the desert
is an insanely dull game of waiting. After
months of rigorous, relentless training, these
skilled soldiers must question the value of
their presence in an invisible conflict that
does not seem to require their participation.

Their days consist of pointless patrolling,
joyless masturbation, insincere interviews,
and inevitable break-up letters from sweet-
hearts back home. In fact, the only thing
missing from their routines is a motivational
purpose. After days, weeks, and months of
waiting, these stir-crazy soldiers finally lose
their patience with their own futility.

It’s not spoiling much to say that when
Operation Desert Storm actually does begin,
this atmosphere of uselessness does not dis-
sipate. In the aimless frenzy of combat, men
risk their lives to recover radio batteries that
are already dead; they face deadly air
assaults that mistakenly come from friendly
fire; they discover perfect sniper shots that
their superior officers veto in favor of alter-
native tactics.

In short, “Jarhead” becomes a movie
about once ambitious people who must
accept that their contributions amount to far
less than originally hoped. Gyllenhaal’s rag-
ing performance as the leading disillusioned
marine brims with moments of emotional
vulnerability that are not at all exclusive to
war. Perhaps most wrenching is his power-
lessness as he realizes that his long-time

girlfriend, the sole source of stability in his
life, has moved on to another lover while he
has remained motionless in the desert.

In his first two features, Mendes devel-
oped a reputation as master craftsman of
slow and eerie visuals. While the photogra-
phy in “Jarhead” lacks the overall decadence
of “American Beauty” and “Road to
Perdition,” Mendes occasionally reminds us
of his incredible control over the camera.
One sequence, during which the soldiers slog
through burning, raining oil wells, contains
enough frightening images to satisfy a year’s
worth of nightmares.

Combined with the film’s potent message
and its outstanding performances, such visu-
als more than compensate for the absence of
concrete, marketable action. While the sol-
diers in “Jarhead” may be bored to death,
audiences should brace themselves for a jar-
ring couple of hours.

2.6.6.

Starring: Jake
Gyllenhaal, Jamie Foxx,
Brian Geraghty, Jacob
Vargas and Laz Alonso

Directed by: Sam
Mendes

Rating: R

_ The boat's already packed. Help us fill it.

EVERGLADES 2006

