10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005

The field hockey team triumphed against Appalachian State 1-0 on Family Weekend.
Their record is now 4-9 overall in the Northern Pacific Conference.

Volleyball gets pair of
SoCon victories

By JAMIE WILL
Staff Writer

Heading into Family Weekend with two
SoCon matchups in front of them, the volley-
ball team looked to improve on their 9-14
overall record and 5-4 in-conference record
against Western Carolina and Chattanooga.

In the first match against Western
Carolina, in which Davidson was attempting
to sweep the season series, the Wildcats won
a thrilling, come-from-behind match 3-2 in
front of their parents in Belk Arena. With a
2-1 deficit and facing their last points in
game four, Davidson called a timeout only to
come back firing behind kills from Katie
Pierucci ’08, Jenna Dykstra ’07, and Tierney
Hodge °09.

The game ended with a Davidson victory
on a block by Kittery Neale ’09. Davidson
went on to maintain a two-point margin in
the deciding fifth game to win the exciting
match. Overall, key contributors for the
Wildcats were Liz Williamson °07, with a
double-double of 22 kills and 10 digs, and
Alison Dwyer ’09, who had the best match
of her young career with career highs in kills,
12, assists, 20, and hitting percentage, .500.

Bringing its record to 10-14 overall and
picking up their sixth conference win,
Davidson looked to add to that on Sunday
versus Chattanooga.

The first match of Family Weekend would
be matched in the second, as Davidson won
another five-game match against SoCon
rival Chattanooga.

Davidson’s SoCon record rose to 7-4 with
the victory, tying them with Chattanooga for
fourth in the conference. Led by Williamson
and Pierucci, who both had double-doubles,
the Wildcats had another comeback from
down 2-1. Davidson played a great fourth
game to tie it up, dominating Chattanooga
with a .341 hitting percentage.

In the deciding fifth game, the lead
switched back and forth nine times before
Davidson took over after a 10-10 tie. Kills
from Neale and Pierucci put Davidson up,
and they did not look back, finishing the fifth
game with a 15-12 score. Now with a 11-14
record overall, 7-4 and tied for fourth in the
SoCon, Davidson looks to take its strong
play into a pivotal SoCon match this week
against Appalachian State, the. second place
team in the conference with a 9-2 SoCon
record.

campus chums with a yommy
ice cream cake. Birthdays,

704-892-0604

study breaks, exam

het & Jerry's neenade Haings (re 2003

Wildcat defense stays
strong vs. App. State

By Ricky DIMON
Staff Writer

Field hockey had two crucial Northern
Pacific Conference games the past two
Sundays, and the ’Cats fought their way to a
hard-earned split.

On Oct. 16 Davidson clashed with the
Pacific Tigers in Williamsburg, Va. The
Cats jumped out to an early lead when Kayli
Maxwell ’08 scored in the 10th minute off a
play on a shot that deflected off the Tigers’
goalkeeper.

That was all Pacific would surrender, how-
ever, as Davidson could not hold off the
defending conference champions.

Pacific emphatically answered Maxwell’s
third goal of the season with two goals com-
ing just three minutes apart midway through
the first half. The Tigers added another score
one minute before halftime to take a 3-1
advantage into the break.

Wildcat goalie Brittany Rolek ’09 kept the
’Cats close the rest of the way, turning back
all seven Pacific shots in the second half.
Davidson, however, could not solve a stingy
Tiger defense. The 3-1 halftime score held
up as the ’Cats were unable to find the back
of the net after Maxwell’s early score.

Returning to the friendly confines of the
home turf field on Sunday, Davidson
bounced back and celebrated Senior Day
with a 2-1 victory over Appalachian State.
The ’Cats were working with a new-look
lineup to emphasize a more potent offensive
attack.

Kelly Brennan ’07 put Davidson on the
scoreboard just two minutes into the game,
finishing a two-on-one breakaway after cor-

ralling a nice pass from Maxwell.

The Wildcat offense continued to apply
pressure and quickly added an insurance
goal in the 12fh minute of play on a penalty
corner. Jen Willis ’08 took advantage of the
call by drilling a shot from the top of the cir-
cle past the hapless Mountaineer goalkeeper.

The visitors cut into Davidson’s lead with
a goal in the 34th minute, so the ’Cats took a
precarious 2-1 lead into intermission. To
Appalachian State’s chagrin, however,
Wildcat goalkeeper Rachel Kiselewich ’07
was solid in the second half.

Not one of the Mountaineers’ 11 second
period shots found its way past Kiselewich
as the ’Cats held on for a pivotal 2-1 victory.

“App. State has always been a big rival for
us, so getting this win was huge,” said co-
captain Molly Blackman ’06. “It’s definitely
a confidence-booster and a great showcase
of what our team is capable of.”

The ’Cats finish their regular season this
weekend with home games against confer-
ence foe Longwood at 3 p.m. on Saturday
and Lock Haven at 1 p.m. on Sunday after-
noon.

The squad will be looking to carry
momentum into the conference tournament
Nov. 3-5 in Berkeley, California.

“The conference is really even this year
skill-wise, so it will come down to who
wants it more,” said Blackman.

Motivation should not be an issue, as this
year’s tournament comes with unprecedent-
ed stakes in the form of an automatic bid to
the NCAA tournament. “We are very excited
to compete for the first-ever automatic bid at
this year’s NorPac Tournament,” said coach
Lisa Thompson.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
J.D. UNC Law School

Best Lawyers in America ‘84—'05
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Law School

THE
gAttos, |
LAW FIRM
We Are Proud To Be Your Neighborhood Law Firm

Concentrating in Personal Injury

Other Areas of Practice

Appeals, Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
F Family Law, Litigation, Real Estate, Wills & Trusts

In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699
(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)

Sandy Carnegie
B.A.Davidson College
J.D. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson

83~'85; 88'-'97

Town of Davidson Commercial and
North End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate

Executive Council ‘03 to present. Ce

