THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 26, 2005 7

Turn off your iPod and The thing that shall not be named

make your own noise

Hey, I do it too. Let the Young
Republicans and Young
Democrats do their active political
thing. Watch as groups organize
§ fundraisers and charity drives and
maybe contribute. But protest?

Not so much.

When you think about it, today’s
minority of active students poses a
stark contrast to our perception of
the wild 1960s and 70s of protests,
disobedience, and challenges to
authority.

I do acquiesce that our percep-
tion of those two decades could be
tainted by memories and history books that only remember
the wild ones and forget to mention the countless others who
kept quiet.

It seems that the new alcohol policy caused more waves
than it should have compared to the degree of severity of
many of today’s top stories.

As Barrett Seaman observes in “Binge: Campus Life in an
Age of Disconnection and Excess” (2005), “[p]olicies that
‘affect students’ daily lives, not global history, stir the blood
of today’s undergraduates.”

Don’t get me wrong; I think our response to the victims of
Hurricane Katrina has been powerful and immediate. But I
guess I’d like to see a little more youthful idealism. A little
more of my parents’ generation.

A little more in-your-face action and demonstrating that
gets people talking and doing. More than just on-campus
political talks and forums. Certainly we all can’t take up our
cross at every outrage, but once in a while it is most appro-
priate. Sometimes I wish I could get worked up enough about
an issue to want to stand out and yell and wave my banner
and flaunt it in the face of the opposition.

I’m not the loud, outgoing type, but I think this would def-
initely be possible if someone other than myself were organ-
izing such an event—someone who could really rally support
and excite fervor.

I would have to be convinced that what I was doing was
actually making a difference. | mean who cares if a white
college girl at little old Davidson is getting her ovaries in an
uproar over something?

But if we all have this attitude, then everyone is going to

CaREY BAXTER

Awareness is only personally
gratifying, and it won't do
much to ameliorate terrible
situations around the world.

go about his selfish little life in his oh-so-comfortable routine
trying to keep out anything that disturbs inner tranquility.

It seems like everyday American society in general is
becoming more self-absorbed. This is most apparent on the
roadways, but also at Davidson, as we all walk around
plugged up with headphones and cell phones. Uncork your-
self and take in your surroundings once in a while!

Not only is it gorgeous here, nature sometimes makes
pleasant noises, and there are people talking—sometimes
about important things. '

Compared to other colleges I think Davidson students are
really aware of current events. Awareness, however, is only
personally gratifying, and it won’t do much to ameliorate ter-
rible situations around the world.

I like to think that if everyone does his best to be kind and
do good in small ways everyday, then the world will be a bet-
ter place. But no one is going to be nice all the time, so when
we can we have to make up for all those slackers, including
ourselves.

And sometimes community service isn’t enough. Seaman
writes, “community service is today’s equivalent of student
activism ... this generation has learned to think globally, act
locally.”

Maybe a lot of us are waiting to graduate from Davidson
and the rest of the 25 years of schooling to become Doctor
Professor King Your Highness or whatever before we start
saving our ailing world.

It’s great to aim high for yourself, but I think we need to
think big for the world too.

Hey, I’m as guilty as the most culpable. I need to shut up -

and take some of my own advice—and put it into action.

Carey Baxter is a sophomore from Monkton, Md. Contact
her at.cabaxter@davidson.edu.

By SAM HOTCHKISS
Guest Columnist

Gay. There, I said it, gay. It is the thing that’s around us,
but the thing that no one likes to talk about.

Davidson is by no means a “gay” school, like our liberal
arts counterparts in the North, and I would even go so far as
to argue that Davidson is not entirely a “gay friendly”
school.

One could argue that this is the way it is because of our
location and affiliation with the Presbyterian Church; also,
the majority of our student body comes from the Southeast,
an area that is generally more socially conservative than
other parts of the country.

I was shocked at how many peo-
ple flat out refused to sign the
National Coming Out Day banner.

I will say in Davidson’s defense that it is becoming more
“secular” every year. For instance, women now make up 50
percent of the student body, attending church is no longer
required, and we now have a more diverse population,
racially, economically, and geographically. Orientation now
includes a part about how to come out to your roommate if
you’re gay, and 30 minutes of the mandatory Sexuality 101
class is devoted to helping students understand homosexual-
ity.

Being an out, gay male at Davidson, I can honestly say
that it’s been fairly easy being out. I’ve never been harassed
because of my sexual orientation, and I have found an amaz-
ing core group of friends who are not just tolerant, but
accepting of it. Also, we have a Gay-Straight Alliance, as
well as the confidential support group, You Are Not A

Stranger Here.

Despite these organizations advocating tolerance on cam-
pus, prejudice remains. This became evident when the Gay-
Straight Alliance decided to have a banner for people to sign
in support of National Coming Out Day 2005.

I was shocked, to say the least, at how many people flat out
refused to sign the National Coming Out Day banner.

We were very clear in saying that the only reason we had
the banner was just for people to sign and show support for
the Gay-Straight Alliance on campus, and in support of peo-
ple who were coming out. In a recent CORE survey, 94 per-
cent of students said that they thought it was healthy to have
students of different sexual orientations on campus.

I know that nowhere near 94 percent of the people who
walked by signed the banner.

Homosexuality, I’m sorry to say for those of you who
don’t approve, has become fairly commonplace in our socie-
ty. The majority of Davidson students attempt to attain high-
ranking jobs in the corporate world; that’s just who we are.
Let’s say you don’t approve of homosexuality, and one day
your female boss at a nationally-recognized bank invites you
over to her house for a cocktail party.

How will you react when you walk in, only to find that her
partner is not a man, but a woman?

My point is, people who are going to put up a fight about

homosexuality in our society, in the near future, are going to

get left behind. It will not be P.C. anymore to be anti-gay.
Davidson has been getting better, and continues to get bet-
ter for gay students. Each class has more out gay students
and is, overall, more accepting than the class before it.
Davidson will probably never become an NYU or an
Amherst, but it would be nice if some day in the near future,
everyone signed the banner.

Sam Hotchkiss is a sophomore from Alexandria, Va.
Contact him at sahotchkiss@davidson.edu.

Immigration offers opportunity for USA

The topic of immigration
reform has received a lot of atten-
tion since September 11, with
calls from all sides for tighter bor-
der control. Despite this added
emphasis, the Pew Hispanic
Center estimates that nearly 11
million undocumented aliens
reside in the United States, with
an additional 700,000 entering
each year.

This month, Homeland Security
Secretary Michael Chertoff
announced the end of the “catch
and release” policy that freed captured illegal immigrants.

Congress has also been addressing the issue, with Sens.
John Cornyn (R-Tx.) and Jon Kyl (R-Az.) presenting an
immigration reform bill, and Sens. Ted Kennedy (D-Ma.)
and John McCain (R-Az.) sponsoring a competing piece of
legislation. Neither offers a suitable solution to the problem.

The Cornyn-Ky] bill unrealistically suggests shipping all
undocumented workers back to their home nations, where
they could then apply for a temporary worker visa to re-enter
the country.

Since it is doubtful many illegal aliens will volunteer to be
uprooted, we currently lack the funds and the manpower to
forcefully deport 11 million people.

Although the Kennedy-McCain plan is a step in the right
direction, with provisions supporting a temporary worker
program and the opportunity to gain citizenship for current-
ly undocumented residents, it falls short in that it aims to
replace the current “I-9” system of employee documentation
with a similarly convoluted, and thereby ineffectual, pro-
gram.

These politicians fail to see the real problem driving the
issue. Some pundits endorse placing the National Guard on

the tao of scott

SCOTT SALDANA

Se] [hie 1) Cid

Sen. McCain, R-Az. (left), and Sen. Kennedy, D-Ma..,
-are working together on. an immigration plan.

the border to seal it off. But in all practical reality, it is impos-
sible to end the flow of immigrants across the border.

Why are they coming? Since illegal aliens are not racing
across the Rio Grande to collect welfare benefits,.it is logical
to assume they are finding jobs.

All of these proposals rely on a system of quotas on legal
immigration. The current caps have produced a backlog of
foreign nationals requesting visas, making legal entry
impractical. The Kennedy-McCain legislation would raise
the number of issued visas, but not to a level that would alle-
viate the problem.

Why not eliminate quotas?

If we allow immigrants to enter the country freely, provid-
ed they register with the government, they would have no
reason to sneak across the border.

This system could also offer the opportunity to gain citi-
zenship after a certain number of years spent working.

- If we allow immigrants to enter
the country freely, provided they
register with the government, they
would have no reason to sneak
across the border.

If all available jobs in the U.S. are filled eventually, unem-
ployed entrants would have to find an alternative place to go
(preferably Canada).

The main argument against such a programs is that it
would allow “foreigners” to steal the jobs of American work-
ers who need to support their own families.

Currently, illegal immigrants work for less than employers
could legally pay their American counterparts; however, if
all entrants were documented, that would end. It would sim-
ply foster some healthy competition by expanding the work-
force.

Very little separates the current flood of immigrants from
the group that came from Europe through Ellis Island in the
early 20th century. Each sought a better life in this land of
opportunity.

Rather than attempt to achieve the impossible goal of
sealed borders through wasteful government bureaucracy, we
need to acknowledge that as long as jobs are available, immi-
grants will come.

We need to have an effective policy waiting for their
arrival.

Scott Saldana is a freshman from Dallas, Tx. Contact |

‘ him at scsaldana@davidson.edu.
