THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS -

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005 15

Young and old unite as freshmen boost team on, off court

By Erik SWANSON
Senior Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team has enjoyed
some of its most successful seasons in the
four years since its current senior class
joined the team. When Kelly Fillnow ’05,
Meghan Fillnow ’05, Meggie Patterson ’05,
Sarah Borkowski ’05 and Kelly Meadors ’05
joined the team in 2001, the Wildcats had
just suffered through several losing seasons
in a row.

Not coincidentally, in the three years since
that class’s arrival, the ’Cats have not had a
single losing season, while they have made a
serious run at the conference championship
every April.

With graduation awaiting these five
women in May, one wonders how such a tal-
ented group can ever be replaced. The addi-
A ion of three impressive freshmen this season
may not be the answer to all of the questions
about the team’s future, but Kelsey Linville
’08, Kim Whelan ’08 and Meredith Skeeters
’08 have already impacted the team both on
and off the court as the ’Cats chase down an
elusive SoCon title.

On the court, the three freshmen have
combined for a 26-4 singles record and a 21-
10 doubles record thus far in the spring sea-
son. Only one of those losses, a doubles
match against East Tennessee State, came
against a conference opponent.

“The three freshmen have far surpassed
anyone’s expectations in only their first sea-
son,” said Kelly Fillnow. “With their
extremely hard work ethic and raw talent,
only good things are to come for them.”

Meghan Fillnow expressed the same
appreciation for the trio. “The three fresh-
men add an amazing. dynamic to our team,”
she said.
Linville from

came to Davidson

Columbus, Ohio, where she won four state
championships with her high’ school team.
An impressive fall seagon and an injury to
perennial number three singles player
Meghan Fillnow gave Linville the opportu-
nity to start the spring season in the third sin-
gles slot. Her dominating 1272 singles record
has shown her ability to handle the level of
competition, making her the first player to
disrupt the top-three combination of Kelly
Fillnow, Patterson and Meghan Fillnow in
the last four years.

“It is hard to come into a team when the
top three have been at the top for all four
years,” Linville admitted. “But I feel that all
of the upperclassman have made the transi-
tion for me and the other freshmen in prac-
tices and in matches a great atmosphere to
adapt to.”

Linville has also teamed with Patterson at-
the second doubles position, where the two
have tallied an 11-4 record, the best on the
team.

Whelan has lived up to the expectations as
one of the team’s top recruits, as well. Her
strong fall results earned her a spot in the
starting singles and doubles lineups. Playing
mostly at number six, Whelan has compiled
a 12-2 singles record. In doubles action, she
has held down the third slot, earning a 9-6
record with three different partners in the
search for the perfect fit.

Whelan cited the team atmosphere of col-
lege tennis as one of the positive aspects in
the transition from junior tennis. “The transi-
tion to college tennis was a very positive
experience,” she said. “I especially love the
team concept that was completely lacking in
junior tennis. The freshmen all get along
well with the upperclassmen; they
have helped us adjust very well.”

While Skeeters has not seen as much
action as the other two freshmen, she

RIBS...EAT IN OR TAKE OUT...RIBS

GRILL)

GOURMET FLAME-BROILED
ALL~BEEF “JUMBO” HOT DOGS SERVED ON
GRIDDLE TOASTED ROLLS, GERMAN BRATS,

SWEET ITALIAN SAUSAGE, POLISH KIELBASA

OUR OWN PORK BAR-B- Q BEAR'S BEST “ONG”

PHILLY CHEESESTEAKS & CHICKENSTEAKS

:*

Now Serving Smoked ibs!

9709- B SAM FURR RD- HUNTERSVILLE, NC

1-77 EXIT 25~RT #73~"EASY OFF/EASY ON"
Hours~Dally 11AM~8PM; Closed Sunday

Phone Number: (704) 895-2692

www.buzzyandbearsgrill.com

remains a valuable asset to the team. In lim-
ited action this spring, Skeeters is 2-0 in sin-
gles and 1-0 in doubles, though her team-
mates appreciate her for more than just her
on-court skills. “Meredith is a great tennis
player with such a sweet spirit, and she is
always thinking about others,” said Meghan
Fillnow. .

All three of the freshmen have impacted
the team off the court as well.

“Besides their natural tennis ability, they
also bring so much life and energy to prac-
tice every day,” said Kelly Fillnow. “One of
the main reasons for the success of the team
this year is our sister-like closeness, and we
have to credit the freshmen for the great
team camaraderie.”

Linville, Whelan and Skeeters have

enjoyed being part of the team for one of its
most successful seasons in school history.
The Wildcats boast a 12-3 overall record and
a 4-0 conference record, and their recent vic-
tory over No. 45 Western Michigan earned
the team its first national ranking since the
2001-2002 season. Now ranked No. 53 in the
country, the ’Cats will look to carry their
early success to the conference champi-
onship.

“We're all very excited to have this oppor-
tunity so early in our Davidson careers,” said
Whelan.

“I’m really excited to be able to contribute
to such a great team and awesome group of
girls. We have a lot of momentum to carry us
into the rest of the season and hopefully to
the conference championships.”

Photo by Dorsett Clark

Kelly Fillnow 05 leads the Wildcats at the No. 1 singles and doubles spot.

Men’s tennis falters against
SoCon rivals UTC, ETSU

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

The men’s tennis team had mixed results
in conference play this week, cruising to a
victory over The Citadel before falling to
conference rivals ETSU and Chattanooga by
scores of 6-1 and 7-0, respectively.

Against The Citadel, the team earned its
second victory in the SoCon by winning all
three doubles matches and losing only one of
six singles matches. The tandems of Donald
Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05 and Daniel
Bermeo ’07 and John Bolton ’06 recorded
easy victories, while Flav Simihaian ’08 and
Joe Cheaney ’06 had a closer match but
eventually won, 8-6, for their fifth consecu-
tive win together.

In singles competition, Miles used three
sets to beat his opponent 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 at the
top position.

Simihaian beat his opponent at the second
spot easily, 6-3, 6-0, while Bermeo, Burns,
and Jay Chitty ’07 also won singles matches
for the ‘Cats. :

“Against The Citadel we were all pretty
happy,” said Burns. “We played like we
thought we should have.”

The next two matches didn’t go nearly as
well for the "Cats, however. Against, defend-

ing conference champion ETSU, Burns (No.
5) won in three sets 4-6, 7-6 (3), 10-5, but he
was the only Wildcat to earn a match victory
on the afternoon. In fact, he was also the only
Wildcat to even play into the third set.

The doubles team of Simihaian and
Cheaney was the only other Wildcat team to
play ETSU close, as the duo lost in a tie-
breaker to end their five-match winning
streak together.

Next, Chattanooga dismantled the ’Cats 7-
0 on Sunday to drop Davidson to 2-2 in
Southern-Conference play. For the most part,
none of the matches were even close for the
out-manned Wildcats.

Miles fought to a three-set finish at the top
spot, as he rallied in the second set, 6-2, after
falling 4-6 inthe first frame. Still, he could
not pull off the victory in the third, an omen
that it was not to be the day for the ’Cats.

Simihaian and Chitty also played their
opponents to three sets but eventually lost.

“T think we should’ve won the match
[against Chattanooga],” said Burns, “[but]
we came out too slow and didn’t play up and
down the line.”

The team is now 7-7 overall and 2-2 in
SoCon competition, and it will next play at
home on. March 23 against UNC
Greensboro.
