16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 19, 2005

Wildcats cruise to 7-0 start in Southern Conference plays

isi

ah este fart

efiiee CoeE

¢ did not shy away from the challenge, however, and he has |
ene of the team leaders under his dad’s tutelage.

r way #
fficult coming to Davidson to play for

see Inside feature, page

Former goalie Nolan one of 10 cho-
sen for national training program

By AUSTIN MERCADANTE
Staff Writer

Last week U.S.A. Field Hockey selected
former Davidson goalie Sarah Nolan ’05 to
participate in the Elite Performance Training
Center program, which is designed as a
bridge between talented collegiates and
international team competition.

Nolan was selected for the EPTC after
competing in an open try-out for the nation-
al team, and she was one of only 10 seniors
selected to train in the coming months at an
EPTC site. As a result, she will spend time
from February until June at Wake Forest in
Winston-Salem in preparation for the tryouts
for the 18-member national team.

“The open trial for the national team. was
an eye-opening experience for me,” said
Nolan. “The international level of field hock-
ey is very different in a lot of ways-from the
college game, and in that weekend alone I
learned so much about goalkeeping.”

Nolan has been an integral part of the field
hockey squad at Davidson since her fresh-

man year, and she leaves the school as the
Wildcats’ most-decorated goalie. After shar-
ing time in the goal her first year, Nolan was
the starting keeper for the past three years.
She finished with the most career time in
goal with 4,584 minutes, or three days, four
hours, and 24 minutes.

Nolan also tops the charts in career saves
(542) and single-season. saves (195). In
recognition of her play, Nolan was named
this the 2004 Defensive Player of the Year
for the East Division of the Northern Pacific
Conference, and she was also nominated to
represent the South region in the North-
South Senior All-Star game.

Being named to the EPTC team is just the
next step towards Nolan’s eventual goal. She
said, “A long-term goal for me has always
been to play on the National Team. I never
really thought it was a possibility until my
coach told me about these open trials they
were having. I had no idea what to expect
going into this, and [ didn’t know that being
selected for the EPTC program was even an
option.”

By PIERCE TRUMBO
Staff Writer

It was another successful week for the
men’s basketball team, as the Wildcats
stretched their winning streak to six games
and improved to 11-7 and 7-0 in the
Southern Conference. The team’s 7-0 confer-
ence start is reminiscent of the ’95-’96 sea-
son in which the ’Cats finished 25-5, with a
perfect 14-0 record in the conference.

Last Wednesday, the "Cats traveled to
Western Carolina, and Davidson never
looked back after storming out to a 46-23
lead at the break. Said head coach Bob
McKillop, “We were aggressive from the
start coming off an emotional victory over
Charleston.”

In the second half, the Cats maintained
that comfortable margin en route to an 80-57
victory. Brendan Winters ’06 had a game-
high 20 points on 7-16 shooting, and [an
Johnson °06 went 7-9 from the floor for 15
points.

Furthermore, Logan Kosmalski ’05 barely
missed a double-double with 10 points and
nine rebounds, and Jason Richards *08 had
seven points and a game-high six assists.

McKillop has been impressed by the play
of Richards and the other Wildcat freshmen,
Boris Meno °08 and Thomas Sander °08,
saying, “All three are better than we
thought.”

As a team, Davidson shot 46.2 percent
from the field and out-rebounded Western
39-30.

On Saturday, traveled to
Furman, and after falling behind 7-2, the

Davidson

Field hockey
coach Lisa
Thompson has
watched Nolan

improve during her
time at Davidson,
and now has nothing
but praise for her.
“Sarah is an out-
standing athlete with
a lot of ambition and
desire. She is not
afraid to take risks
and go after what
she wants. She has
devoted herself to
improvement each
and every year.”

For her part,
Nolan is glad that the EPTC has the open try-
out system, which allows many field hockey
athletes the chance to further their careers. “I
am really happy that they have this program
set up, because it really gives athletes like

me, who are not yet at the National Team-

*Cats came back to take a 12-9 lead after
eight minutes of play. The teams then fought
evenly to a 29-29 tie at intermission.

Davidson scored the first point of the sec-
ond half on a Kenny Grant ’06 free throw,
however, and never trailed again in the
game. After fighting back several Paladin
runs. Davidson appeared to put Furman
away with an 8-0 run that increased its lead
to 13 at 61-48 with just over three minutes to
play.

The spurt included three-pointers by
Winters and Jason Morton ’06 and a steal
and breakaway lay-up by Kosmalski, but
Furman countered back with a 10-0 run of its
own to close to within three points with :37
to play. Davidson converted on 7-8 free
throws in the final seconds, however, to earn
the 68-61 victory.

Morton was perhaps the most impressive
Wildcat on the day, as he was 5-6 from
behind the are and contributed 17 points in
only 20 minutes of play. McKillop calls
Morton “an explosive scorer” and _ said,
“When you can bring [Johnson] and
|Morton] off the bench and have their kind of
production, it’s a jolt of energy.”

Winters had 17 points, including the
game-clinching free throws in the final min-
utes, and Kosmalski once again barely
missed a double-double with 10 rebounds
and nine points. Grant scored seven points
and handed out eight assists, but he also had
a team-high seven turnovers.

In the victory, Davidson held one of the
nation’s best three-point shooting teams in
check, and, more importantly, continued its

see Basketball, page 14

Nolan tops the Davidson charts in career saves with 542.

level ... a chance.”

Hopefully, the EPTC will be yet another
stepping stone to bigger and better things for
Nolan. Thompson certainly thinks that it is
possible, as she says, “I believe Sarah can
accomplish anything she sets her mind to.”

eee
Player of the Week |

Jason Morton ‘06

Basketball

Hometown: Charlotte, N.C.

Major: History

Morton helped to continue the Wildcats’ domination
over Furman by leading the team with 17 points. In
only 20 minutes off the bench, Morton provided long-
distance lightning, connecting on a career-high five of
six shots from behind the arc.

PLAY OF THE WEEK —

Mitchell’s game-winning free throws —

Western Carolina jumped out to a quick 15-4 lead against.the Wildcats on
Tuesday night, but Davidson fought back to trail by just one point entering
half-time. Tied at 63 with less than 10 seconds to play, the Wildcats passed it

around the arc before Jessica Mitchell '07 drove down the left side of the lane
and was fouled with 0.5 seconds to play. Mitchell hit the two free throws, and
on the ensuing Western possession, their inbounds pass was intercepted by
Davidson to secure the victory.
