2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Alumni, continued from page 1

Presbyterian, are more likely to be ministers,
and are more likely to have attended
Davidson when there were greater religious
requirements ante are today.

Despite the large. number of negative
responses to the decision, both Merrell and
Vagt are confident that this decision will not
significantly affect long-term alumni rela-
tions.

“I’ve heard from some alumni who said
‘take me off your list,’” said Merrell. “But
there are always some things that create that
reaction, be they the ‘goose incident’ or a
particular speaker coming to campus. Yet the
immediate impact has been fairly minimal.”

Vagt said that when alumni call voicing
concern over the decision he feels talking to
them and explaining the rationale behind the
Trustees’ actions usually helps ease con-
cems.

“I always start by telling them that the
decision to allow non-Christians on the
Board came out of changes to the Statement
of Purpose,” Vagt said.

The changes to the Statement of Purpose
were designed to strengthen and clarify
Davidson’s relationship to the Presbyterian
Reformed Tradition.

Human Rights Lecture

NEws

“We wanted to make it clear that
Davidson’s relationship to the Reformed
Tradition was not just historical, but that it
was ongoing,” said Vagt.

Among the specific changes made to the
Statement of Purpose were to make the lan-
guage more active and to change the order of
the paragraphs so that the first paragraph
stated Davidson’s continuing vital relation-
ship to the Reformed Tradition.

The changes also included additional lan-
guage that would hold the trustees more
accountable to the College’s history and pur-
pose by adding the line, “The Trustees com-
mit to being faithful stewards of the tradi-
tions of the College.”

Vagt also explains to concerned alumni
that the Trustees included a recommendation
that the College establish an endowed chair
in the Religion Department for a faculty
member specializing in the Reformed
Tradition.

Up until 1998,

Professor Sandy

McKelway had taught courses in Reformed
Theology. After his retirement, however, he
was never directly replaced.

“This position was viewed as a special cir-
cumstance given the important nature of the
[trustees’] action and the fact that this partic-

Marjorie Agosin will present a lecture cit the 1974-1994 Chilean “arpillege” ' move-
ment on Feb. 24 at 7 p.m. in the Semans Lecture Hall in the Belk Visual Arts Center.

Cornelson Lecture

ular expertise had not been replaced, ” Vagt
said.

Dean of Faculty Clark Ross, who is
responsible for overseeing: all new faculty
appointments, said that this is the first time
in his memory that the trustees have specifi-
cally recommended the appointment of a
new faculty position.

Typically, department heads requests new
professorships when there is’ both a sus-
tained demand for a particular subject cou-
pled with a particular area of study that a
department lacks.

Despite the unusual circumstances sur-

rounding the appointment of a new religion
professor in the ‘Reformed Tradition, Ross
said that the Trustees’ decision made this
appointment important.

“The overriding issue here is the notion
that this position was so central to the
College that attention should be paid to it,”
Ross said.

The trustees have taken it upon them-
selves to raise the $1.5 million necessary to
establish the new professorship.

After the money has been completely
raised, Dean Ross and the Religion
Department will begin a search for the best
candidate to fill the position.

Vagt said that once he explains that the
rationale for the changes came out of the
Trustees’ understanding of the Reformed
Tradition, and that the adjustments to the
Statement of Purpose and the addition of a
faculty member specializing in the
Reformed Tradition were meant to reempha-
size Davidson’s continuing commitment to
its Reformed heritage, many alumni will
become less concerned.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 23, 2005

“After I fully explain the decision it usual-
ly assuages-concerns,” he said.

Merrell said that one of the most impor-
tant things for concerned alumni to hear is
that the student body supports the Trustees’
decision.

“T tell alums that Davidson is still’a spiri-
tual place, but despite that most students
appear very supportive of the changes,” said
Merrell. “After hearing that most alums feel

- better about the decision, even if they don’t

completely agree with it.”

“I've had some people tell me
they had been embarrassed by
this rule and that they wouldn't
give to Davidson because of this
rule...They felt Davidson was los-
ing good people on the Board,
and now they don’t have that
feeling anymore.”

--Matt Merrell, Director of
Alumni Relations

Despite the large number of negative com-
ments from alumni, there have also been
many positive comments.

“T’ve had some people tell me they had

_ been embarrassed by this rule and that they

wouldn’t give to Davidson because of this
rule,” Merrell said. “I also know of two
examples of alumni who were invited to be
on the Board but had to decline because they
didn’t go to church. They felt Davidson was
losing good people on the Board, and now
they don’t have that feeling any more.”

Alan Krueger, Bendheim Professor of Economics and Public Affairs and Director of

Industrial Relations at Princeton University, will give a talk on “Misunderestimating

Terrorism: Economics and the Roots of Terrorism” on March 7 at 8 p.m. in Hance
Auditorium in Chambers.

Break Thy Leg: From Concept to Curtain Call at the RSC

The Royal Shakespeare Company will display the concept drawings, costumes, three-
dimensional models, and props that illustrate the skill, ingenuity and expertise that go
into all of their poe tow) in the William H. Van Every Gallery from March 7 to April
15. a

Anthropology Lecture :

Katherine Dettwyler from Millersville. University speaks about “Beauy and the
Breast” on March 8 at 7 p.m. in Hance Auditorium s

Liederabend

Students from the voice studios of Jacquelyn Colscenee Diane Thornton, Jennifer

Hough, sud. Sasi Wl pests vocal Revs mR Tm in Tyler-

Tallman Hall of the Sloan Music Center.
Philip Hockberge of Northwestern ‘Garenny ail ean ine vi Video

Microseary Nemes Siete ee iS aresa 146 of the

Dane Seige ee:

COVRIPUEE

The article “Artists Series funding quest (News, Feb. 16, page 2) contained two

PIONS

errors:

One published sentance read: “The ATC is composed of students who, along with fac-
ulty members, are responsible for picking the acts that come to Davidson.” This should
have read, ““A Union Board committee composed of students, faculty, staff and commu-
nity members select the acts that come to Davidson, and requests funding for them from
the ATC.”

The article also stated, “In the past, student participation estimates have fluctuated
between 100 to 200 students.” While those numbers are typical and convey the point
that student turnout is lower than from other sources, the phrasing might lead a reader
to believe that they are without exception. In fact, one performance last year saw near-
ly 400 students. :

The Davidsonian regrets the errors.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/13 Patterson Court Larceny

Student left her purse at a KA fraternity party, and returned to its original location a
few hours later to find it gone. Estimated value of the purse and its contents is $500.

2/17 Alvarez Student Union Assault
Student’s older brother started a fight with another student, eventually grabbing the
student by the neck and slamming him into the wall. Damage to the wall is estimated at

$150.

2/18 Griffith Street State Citation
Student was stopped by officers due to erratic driving. The student was issued a state

citation for provisional driver’s license offense involving alcohol.

2/19 Martin Court Large Gathering
Officers were called to F apartment due to the large number of people gathered out-

side. Upon arrival, officer observed 50 to 100 people in the courtyard, with three tables

set up for drinking games. Officer was informed that after a party at Jamison had been

shut down, students had migrated to F. Officer shut down the party without incident.

2/20 Patterson Court Noise Violation

While walking past PiKA house, an officer noted loud music and entered the house.
Inside were around 10 or 15 people, most drinking beer. Two were current PiKA mem-
bers, the rest were former members of PiKA. Officer noticed cases of beer sitting out in
the open, and the alumni took responsibility for the beer and the music. The officers left
the house and took the beer with them.

2/20 Ryburn Apartment Intoxication

Officer saw a student who appeared to be sleeping on the grass outside of Ryburn.
The student smelled of alcohol. Officer asked the student for his name, and after two
minutes he became coherent enough to cooperate with the officer, who walked him
hoine.

2/21 Fire Alarm

Alvarez College Union

Fire alarm was activated around 11 a.m. at the Union. Alarm had been in test mode,
which causes the alarm to go off and calls the fire department.

