2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC)
will continue its four-year stay at Davidson
from January 23 to February 5 with an edu-
cation residency themed “Infinite Variety:
Love and Family in Shakespeare’s Plays” in
2007.

Director of Artist Residency Bethany
Prestigiacomo hopes that, with this year’s
small-scale treatment of workshops and pro-
ductions, “students will have a lot more
involvement with the RSC on a personal
level.” >

Members of the RSC plan to conduct eat-
ing house dinners, coffee gatherings, and
beanbag events with students to provide an

informal forum for discussion § of
Shakespeare, in addition to classroom
appearances.

A January 31 beanbag event will double as
a workshop in using Shakespearean scenes

‘She Loves Me’

NEws
Spring ‘06 RSC residency to focus on education

to discuss real-life situations.

The RSC’s involvement will extend
beyond the English and Theater disciplines
when the visiting music group Ensemble
Chaconne conducts a master class on
Elizabethan performance.

The class will cover the instruments and
styles of singing during Shakespeare’s time
and will be free to the general public.

Ensemble Chaconne will perform music
from Shakespeare’s plays on January 28.

The college will also host several presti-
gious guest lecturers in an effort to transcend
the constraints of Elizabethan issues and
apply Shakespeare’s work to modern
themes.

Three scholars will lead a January 24-26
event designated “Perspectives on

Shakespeare, Marriage, and Family” to
speak about Shakespeare across multiple
areas of interest.

“What appeals to the study of Shakespeare
is that he hatches on so many aspects of

Theatre professor Ann Marie Costa will direct the theatre in their presentation of “She
Loves Me” on October 19 and 20 at 7:30 p.m., October 21 and 22 at 8:15 p.m., and
October 23 at 2 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance Hall. Tickets are $15 general

admission or $12 for seniors.

Melissa Pilgrim from the Savannah River Ecology Laboratory will speak on using iso-
topes to analyze trophic relationships among reptiles and amphibians On October 20 at 4

p-m. in Room 146 in Dana Science Building.

DC Jazz Ensemble Concert

The Davidson College Jaz Ensemble wl eve a caesston Octobe 21 at: ee in.

ae Oe Liao,

ee me

willbe made a the anal Fall Convection on October

presentations
22 at 10 a.m. in Duke Family Performance Hall.

Musical Interludes

Dylan Savage of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte will give a piano ‘con-
cert on October 21 at Opa: eee en oO poe Mae Eee

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19, 2005

photacourt

Students greet the Royal Shakespeare Company as they arrive on campus.

human nature,” Prestigiacomo said.

B.J. Sokol from Goldsmiths University
will speak on “Marriage, Culture, and Law
in Shakespeare’s Day,” and Lisa Hopkins
from Sheffield Hallum University will give a
talk entitled “Love in Shakespeare: A
Community Affair.”

Lynda E. Boose from Dartmouth
University will speak on women’s roles in
Shakespeare.

In conjunction with the residency, English
professor Cynthia Lewis will teach a spring
semester course entitled “Shakespeare
Practicum—Love and Family.”

The class will present a student-run per-
formance consisting of six scenes taken from
“Romeo and Juliet,” “Measure for Measure,”
“Henry IV”, “Twelfth Night,” and “A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.”

According to Lewis, the medium by which
the RSC actors will interact with students
this “puts emphasis on the educational aspect
[of performance].”

The course is a discussion-based rein-
forcement of the performance based on a
more complex study of the six scenes.

It will fulfill the Theatre 353/English 353
requirement and can also be used to accom-
modate the English 453 seminar requirement
for seniors.

Steve Gaultney ’07 and Athena Stevens
’06 are writing the one-hour play that will tie
all the scenes together. These students will
receive guidance throughout the writing
process from a playwright in the RSC.

Lewis points out that the medium by
which the RSC actors will interact with stu-
dents this year “puts emphasis on the educa-
tional aspect [of performance].”

Students in previous Shakespeare courses
affirm that activities associated with the

goals of the RSC are instrumental in revital-
izing classroom material.

“T think it’s imperative to act out certain
scenes,” said Serra Aygun ’06. “It gives you
a more complete understanding of the mean-
ing behind the words.”

Lewis hopes to bring the production to the
Edinburgh Fringe Drama Festival in
Scotland during the summer of 2006.

A performance of songs and sonnets by
students and professors will comprise anoth-
er aspect of the production, titled “For Every
Passion Something: Scenes, Songs, and
Sonnets of Shakespeare.” Students will have
to audition to perform the songs. Faculty will
volunteer for the sonnets portion.

According to Lewis, the educational focus
of the residency enables “a multi-faceted
project,” which she hopes will broaden the
scope by which _ students _ interpret
Shakespeare’s influence on literature and
life.

Dita, the Royal Shakespeare dog.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

10/12

North Main Street

Traffic Violation

Officer observed a Lexus fail to yield for a pedestrian in the crosswalk at the North
Main Street-Depot Street intersection. Officer stopped the vehicle, and, the driver was

issued a verbal warning.

10/16

Martin Court

Fire

Officers and the Davidson Fire Department responded to a reported fire in the court-

yard of Martin Court F. They located a fire on the walkway and grass area of the build-
ing. The fire was extinguished with no injury to persons and minor damage to the walk-
way. The incident is still under investigation.

"10/17

Cunningham Fine Arts Building

Larceny

Victim advised that unknown person(s) removed a large white vinyl sign with red let-
tering from the telephone poles located on the west side of the Cunningham Fine Arts
building. Estimated value of the sign is $100.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

