THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 26, 2005 11

POINT/COUNTERPOINT

Sororities would be more free and equal

Equality: here is the fundamen-
lalley’s comet

tal value of our country, protected
and enshrined in its constitution
and its institutions. When it comes
to national issues of employment,
personal liberties, and personal
security, equality must be protect-
ed by higher powers.

But this interference shows up in
a very different light when it
comes to Davidson and its system
| of eating houses.

The quota system the college
uses to ensure all eating houses
remain equal in size flies in the
face of what college life is supposed to be for young women:
a time of freedom of choice and development of identity.

Our gender counterpart does not face this infringement.

Fraternity life is alive and well on Davidson’s court. Each
fraternity has its own identity, its own family, and a strong
sense of community. Freshmen pledges have the privilege of
“shopping around,” finding their niche, and joining a lifelong
brotherhood that will become a part of who they are. Loyalty
to these organizations is high, and therefore they are well-
suited to make a difference in their community. If a fraterni-
ty is trying to organize a community service project, the
brothers not only have to participate, they want to; it
strengthens not only the larger sense of unity outside the
campus, but also the bond within the frat.

By taking away the freedom of choice from the girls when

HALLEY AELION

I certainly can’t profess being
very knowledgeable on the subject
of Greek life, but from the infor-
mation I’ve gathered here and
there, I think eating houses are def-
initely the way to go.

Coming from four years at a
very small, all-girls high school, I
know how annoying a large group
of girls can become. I’m sure the
situation improves from high
; school to college, but some girls in
their relations with other girls tend
to become catty and melodramatic
for seemingly ‘no good reason that I have ever discovered
except maybe to feel important.

Some of the girls in my high school would talk about
someone they were angry with to everyone but the person
they were angry with. These petty little squabbles got old
really quick, especially when two girls who were in a fight
would each try to gather allies and turn them against “the
enemy.” And I don’t know if behavior like this continues into
college, but I’m glad [ don’t have to find out.

I always hated how defined the cliques were at my high
school and how exclusive some of them tried to be. I was
repulsed by the idea of conforming to a certain group’s stan-
dard of cool just to sit at the “right” lunch table and hang out
with the popular guys.

Now, some girls at my high school couldn’t care less about

baxter’s bar

Ay Reet Be

CaREY BAXTER

it comes to what eating house they will belong to, the college
is not only belittling the right of girls to shape their identity,
but they are also seriously damaging the power of eating
houses in the community.

First of all, at this point, girls have learned that life is
tough. There are people out there that are mean, girls that are
catty, and life is not fair. We’ve been dealing with these real-
ities since third grade when the first girl. came to school
wearing her mom’s lipstick. The fact that the college is try-
ing to protect us from this truth now that we are college
freshmen is misguided. Though it is true most girls end up in
a house they are very happy with, there is the occasional
exception, which is ridiculous. Why should girls be denied
the guarantee of ending up in the house they want with the
girls they like, when that right is already assumed by the
male population on the campus.

Furthermore, the fact that inevitably some members of eat-
ing houses will be in their second or third choice houses low-
ers the efficacy of the house in the community. Without full
loyalty and whole-hearted support of all members, it is much
more difficult for eating houses to rally enthusiastic troops to
make a difference outside or on the campus than it is for fra-
ternities.

Instead of focusing on a forced equality that violates per-
sonal liberty of choice and self-determination, Davidson
needs to think about the equality of all its students, regard-
less of age, race, and especially gender.

Halley Aelion is a freshman from Bowie, Md. She can be
contacted at haaelion@ davidson.edu.

Eating houses better than sororities

belonging to a clique. I myself tried to ignore the snooty girls
in the upper crust of the high school hierarchy. But for those
poor females who were dying to be a part of the cool group,
I know how cruel girls can be if they are not interested in
befriending someone, usually for some superficial reason.

Sororities, to me, have the same elite feel that the cliques
of high school have. Only the cool girls who conform to a
certain image are chosen, leaving the rejected girls out in the
cold. I feel like in some cases girls have to compromise part
of themselves to try to fit in their chosen sorority, and that is
kind of sad because it promotes uniformity over uniqueness.

Eating houses, on the other hand, do not require proving
oneself for admittance. Each girl’s first choice eating house
is not always guaranteed thanks to the lottery system. Thus
the pressure is nonexistent during court selection time, unlike
the atmosphere that pervades sororities during rush.

The laid-back approach of the eating house system allows
girls to join an eating house just as a social member at first
and then choose whether to stay, switch, or quit altogether,
easily and without conflict. I get the feeling that here every-
one is just very relaxed about being a part of or not being a
part of eating houses.

So I am grateful to be able to try out a watered-down ver-
sion of a sorority and stay as far away as possible from that
cut-throat, over-dramatized, gossip-ridden world of girls,
girls, girls.

Carey Baxter is a freshman English major from Monkton,
Md. She can be contacted at cabaxter @ davidsonian.edu.

Four more years of freedom likely?

Bush’s inaugural address, full
of rhetoric- and few specifics,
painted a broad picture for the
next few years. His speech did
suggest key shifts in foreign pol-
icy, however. ;

By almost any account, “free-
dom” was Bush’s focal point,
| being mentioned some 30 odd
times. Bush has already con-
fronted wo oppressive regimes
that posed a “direct threat” to the
United States. Now he has “the
ultimate goal of ending tyranny
in our world,” meaning potential
policy changes in longtime tyrannical allies Saudi Arabia,
Egypt, Pakistan and Putinland. If so, Bush would silence his
oil critics and become a champion of human rights.

Bush’s domestic ideal of freedom, where “‘citizens find the
dignity and security of economic independence,” disregards
the vast inequalities of wealth in America. The richest one
percent of Americans has more wealth than the bottom 90
percent combined. .

Then there is Bush’s ownership society, spearheaded by

more than words

Evans McGowan

privatizing Social Security. The Social Security you present-
ly pay is for those who receive their checks now. In an inter-
nal memo, the administration admits benefits would be cut.
If persons have the choice to pay Social Security or not, they
will just spend the extra cash; was that not the logic behind
Bush’s tax cuts? And there will be little to own with rising
gas, food and health care costs amidst frozen personal
incomes.

Bush speaks of an ownership society, but none of his sub-
ordinates have taken the heat for blunders in war planning,
WMD intelligence or recognizing international law.

A good start would be Rice coming clean on false WMD
statements, Gonzalez “getting back” to Congress about the
infamous torture memo, and Rumsfeld taking full responsi-
bility for inadequate armor and ambiguous guidelines for
questioning prisoners.

Such shifts in foreign policies are doubtful yet would com-
bine the call to freedom with tough standards of responsibil-
ity. Until this happens, the world will remain dubious of
Bush’s efforts to spread freedom.

Evans McGowan is a senior political science major from
Wilmington, De. He can be contacted at evmcgowan@ david-
son.edu.

Let’s end the media

monopoly myth
_ The last we heard of the Federal
Communications Commission, it
was entangled in a matter of grave
national importance involving
Janet Jackson’s right breast.
Apparently Boobgate was just too
much for FCC chairman Michael
Powell to handle, as he announced
his resignation last week. The end
© of Powell’s reign provides a
moment for us to look back at a
worthwhile debate over the FCC
that has sadly slipped off the
EMM national radar.
Controversy arose in the spring of 2003 when the Federal
Communications Commission announced that it was loosen-
ing the national limit on the percent of newspapers and radio
and television stations that a single owner could possess in a
single market.

Ralph Nader and many like him denounced the FCC
move, saying that the ownership rules were so loose to begin
with that the media has consolidated into the hands of a few
corporate executives, crushing consumer choice.

But the Michael Moore crowd was not alone in voicing
this sentiment. | was amazed by how many political com-
mentators accepted the prevailing attitudes that a few corpo-
rate fat cats control everything we see and hear, and the FCC

“Ts it really true that we’re
doomed to watch nothing
but reality TV and listen
to nothing but Maroon 5

unless government steps in?”

needs to do something about it. Even the massive right-wing
conspiracy was largely silent. Is it really true that. we’re
doomed to watch nothing but reality TV and listen to noth-
ing but Maroon 5 unless government steps in?

The empirical evidence suggests that the media is far from
a monopoly, even though media ownership rules were liber-
alized in the 1980s (much like Powell proposed to do in
2003). Telecommunications researcher Ben Compaine
applied the Herfindahl-Hirschmann Index, a measurement of
economic concentration, to the 50 largest media companies.
and the industry’s HHI score reflected a highly competitive
market.

The truth is, while big corporations do merge together and
buy out others, they also often sell these acquisitions off and
lose footing to new players in the market, such as Comcast,
an unknown in the 1980s, but now the largest cable compa-
ny in the US. A quick glance at headlines cannot reveal these
gradual developments, which explains why the conventional
wisdom is so wrong.

The advocates of FCC restrictions ignore this evidence and
instead look to the history of radio deregulation to support
their arguments. After the 1996 Telecommunications Act
eliminated national limits on radio ownership, Clear Channel
gobbled up local markets and now dominates radio national-
ly with over 1,200 stations, leaving American radio bland
and uniform. I must admit that I found this argument some-
what compelling, because it is almost impossible to find a
radio station that doesn’t play absolute drivel.

But is government intervention the only solution? If indi-
vidual consumers find that the current choices in a market
aren’t to their liking, they will vote with their dollars. Top
radio star Howard Stern’s recent announcement that he will
leave traditional broadcasting for Sirius satellite radio in
2006 may be a sign that change will soon occur, as subscrip-
tions to Sirius soared during the 2004 holiday season.

The market is not static. If we get sick of hearing Ashlee
Simpson for the 1000th time, we can buy satellite radio and
get a plethora of choices. That’s what millions did when
cable came out, because they were sick of the big three net-
works. Trying to save broadcast radio by punishing Clear
Channel is just spitting into the wind.

FCC’s media ownership rules patronizingly tell consumers
that they shouldn’t be allowed to make some media players
too successful. Such paternalism will distort the market
process and leave consumers worse off. The FCC should be
allowed to gradually eliminate these restrictions so the true
voice of the people can be heard.

Matt Bandyk is a junior political science major from Tampa,
Fl. He can be contacted at mabandyk@davidson.edu.
