Tae DAVIDSONIAN

Soup, service, and singing

HAMMERS raises over
$5,000 at benefit lunch.

By Lauren CONN
Staff Writer

On Saturday, members of the Davidson
College community flooded the Brown
Atrium for soup, service, and singing to ben-
efit the service organization HAMMERS
(Hands Around Mecklenburg Making
Emergency Repairs Safely).

The atmosphere was friendly as all
embraced the opportunity to compare the
soups, share their favorites with their friends
and decide which should be the winner.

HAMMERS sold 376 tickets and raised
over $5,600, according to. Sarah Caitlin
Mattingly °06.

_Mattingly, who helped create HAMMERS
and organize the Souper Bowl, was happy
with the turnout for the event. Others were
pleased with the event as well.

Pam Krehnbrink, a community member
present at the Souper Bowl, said, “The soup
is wonderful, but my favorite part of the day
has been meeting new people.” .

Max and Erma’s won best soup in the cre-

ative category with Spicy Chicken Tortilla.

Longhorn Steakhouse Lake Norman won the

best creamy soup category. with. Loaded -

Baked Potato. A surprise third category of
best overall soup was givén to The Prickly
Pear for. their Cream of Corn and Poblano.

HAMMERS. is a partnership between
Davidson Housing Coalition, Our Towns
Habitat for Hymanity, and the College.

Mattingly believes HAMMERS has a lot
to offer students involved.

“HAMMERS gives students the opportu-
nity to help the community while learning
new skills and bonding with other students,”
she said.

HAMMERS strives to provide safe hous-
ing for the surrounding neighborhood.
Qualifications for emergency repair through
HAMMERS include people with special
needs such as the elderly, disabled, single
parent, or households with five or more
inhabitants including children. Households
within the communities of Huntersville,
Cornelius, Davidson, and Mooresville that
earn less than 80 percent of area median
income will be able eligible for assistance.

Rosie Molinary, chair of the HAMMERS
Steering Committee and director of commu-

See Soup, page 4

Students sample and vote for various soups at the Souper Bowl.

Red and Black Ball
raises money, awareness

By CAREY BAXTER
Staff Writer

Students, faculty and community mem-

bers gathered in Chambers Gallery Saturday.

for an evening of dancing, desserts, and art
perusing at the second annual Red and Black
Ball, hosted by Adopt-a-Country AIDS
Campaign and Warner Hall Eating House.

The social chairs of Warner Hall estimate
that the event raised $10,000.

“This number is a little Jess than last year,
but I think the event was a huge success,”
said Warner Hall Social Chair Lindsay
deCastrique °07.

All proceeds from the ball and art auction
benefited Metrolina AIDS Project and the
Mapendo of Sudan.

In addition to raising money, a major goal

of the Red and Black Ball is to-bring togeth--

er students, faculty, and community mem-
bers for a common cause.

“We hope that the evening brought about
an awareness of a very important issue that
affects everyone, both on local and interna-
tional levels,” said deCastrique.

President Bobby Vagt donated the band,
Sunset Drive; which played a mix of con-
temporary and big band-style songs. Disc

jockeys from WALT radio station volun- .

: teered their time for a portion of the evening.
Local bakeries donated the desserts and
refreshments, ‘and Davidson students con-

tributed their own works of art for the silent
art auction.

“Tt was very nice to see everyone dressed
up for a change,” Matt Scott ’08 said. “The
food was great, and the fact that the proceeds
went to benefit people with AIDS spoke
very well of Warner Hall and Davidson
College.”

Director of Public Safety Fountain Walker
and Assistant Director of Public Safety
Jonathan Sarver also donated their time so
that Warner Hall only had to pay for the one
other officer on duty.

Ed Kania, President of the Board of the
Metrolina AIDS Project [MAP], spoke
briefly about the goals of the organization.

Founded in 1985, MAP is the Charlotte
region’s leading provider of case manage-
ment, support services, prevention educa-
tion, and direct financial assistance to people
living with HIV/AIDS. MAP seeks to help
those affected by HIV/AIDS and strives to
prevent further spread of the disease through
services, education, and client advocacy.

Sasha Chanoff, founder and executive
director of Mapendo, also addressed the
attendees. Mapendo, an organization with a

‘medical clinic based in Kenya, seeks “to

keep alive HIV positive refugees [from
Sudan, Somalia, Ethiopia, the Democratic
Republic of Congo, and other countries]
who have fallen through the net of humani-
tarian assistance.”

NEWS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

Senators discuss options
for sub-free housing

By EmiLy Kota
Staff Writer .

On Thursday, SGA representatives con-
tinued discussing possible changes in sub-
free housing options.

Allocating. funds for the Senior Class
party and the Diversity Coordinating
Committee ahd reviewing the Treasurer’s
Report were also on the agenda.
Additionally, plans for April at the Lake are
underway.

Sam Spencer 07 presented a resolution
regarding sub-free housing.

While the SGA is planning to wait until
poll results are findlized to discuss the mat-
ter in depth and write a resolution, the pro-
posal prompted much conversation on the
subject.

SGA President Katharine Hubbard ’05
was quick to establish that as representa-

tives, “‘we can’t let our own personal opin- |

ions dictate our actions as members of
SGA.”

A town-meeting style forum was pro-
posed as a way to further dialogue regarding
sub-free housing.

Some senators, such as Francois Trappey
’06, believe a town-hall meeting would pro-
vide a conducive setting to ‘present results
of the poll to the student body.”

Others voiced concern that this format
might primarily attract students polarized
on the issue.

The senators also questioned the viability
and quality of the poll altogether.

Senators expressed concerns about possi-

-ble biases in the survey technique and the

diversity of students who completed the
poll.

Senators shared personal opinions and
anecdotes regarding the issue as well. Some
cited sub-free housing as a divisive force on
campus.

They believe that the current situation
prohibits students with different opinions
from learning from one another.

Senators also had concerns about the

influence of dorm location preferences
affecting student selection of sub-free hous-
ing.

The discussion will continue to be a topic
of contentious debate for the SGA and the
entire student body.

Residence life related topics, such as
cable TV and the housing lottery, were also
discussed.

Claire DeBord °05 proposed the alloca-
tion of money for the Senior Class’ annual
“beer truck” party.

While the party is completely funded by
parent donations, money is needed for
expenses related to postage and informa-
tional mailings. The motion was approved.

The Diversity Coordinating Committee
requested funds for expenses. The motion
was also approved.

‘The committee is currently funded by
SGA funds, limiting their budget. The possi-
bility of receiving funding independent of
SGA was proposed. This change would
“provide a clear message in support of
diversity,” according to Trappey.

The Treasurer’s Report, another monetary
topic, was presented by Billy Ferguson ‘05.
Sufficient funds remain for expenses this
semester.

Ferguson hopes that the new administra-
tion, “won't have to worry about funds,”
due to the cushion.

Plans for April at the Lake have begun.
The program is supported by SGA, PCC,
and the Union Board. It began as a way to
utilize an “under used portion of campus,”
providing day and evening programs,
according to Wilson McCrory °07.

“The emphasis is in trying to get student
participation,” said McCrory.

The program is tentatively planned to
begin on April 8 and culminate on April 28
with a bonfire.

As a final piece of business, the Category
Il elections are drawing near and plans
began for the February 17 SGA meeting,
when the new president and vice-president
will be sworn into office.

