_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005. 11

Who’s afraid of US hypocrisy halting global progress

secular liberalism?

Much of the way in which one
f perceives religiousness at
| Davidson seems affected by one’s
_ background. Along with a number
~ of my friends, I was taken aback
' by the enthusiasm with which stu-
dents embrace religion here—
‘ attending respective services on
| Sundays, meeting for Bible study
| during the week, talking freely
| about God all over campus.

I have also encountered several
people in the past few months from
very fervent religious backgrounds
who were equally surprised by
what they considered a lack of religiousness in the college
community. In a recent issue of The Davidsonian (“The
Danger of a Liberal Mind,” Nov. 2), Carey Baxter voiced her
surprise at “the eagerness of some people to tell me that they
are not believers.” I am similarly dazed by the borderline-
impolite directness with which some Davidson students pry
into the religious lives of their peers.

First, allow me to share briefly my involvement with. reli-
gion. I consider myself Catholic but only in the most super-
ficial of senses. I sat through Mass for eighteen years of
Sundays and attended a Jesuit (an order of Catholicism) high
school before coming to Davidson. I stopped the physical act
of Church-going once I came to college, but I hadn’t been
stimulated by the ceremony for several years. During this
time, I explored some alternatives to Catholicism and most
recently I have resolved myself to a conscious avoidance of
that inner burning which I think drives everyone to search for
something outside of themselves. Still, I consider myself reli-
gious in that I constantly think about all of this.

talk turkey

STEPHEN KALIN

Religion necessarily involves an
element of skepticism without
which beliefs dangerously solidify
in a vacuum Of logic.

To me, religion necessarily involves an element of skepti-
cism without which beliefs dangerously solidify in a vacuum
of logic. Thus, to read in Ms. Baxter’s article that my view of
religion (i.e. agnosticism) ought to be “a source of uneasi-
ness” perturbed me. What confused me more was her associ-
ation of a lack of religious association with school shootings.
Ms. Baxter suggests that educators fail to provide a moral
structure to help children make important decisions.

I contend that this is not entirely a bad thing. A publicly-
funded, liberal education ought to offer students the critical
thinking abilities to solve their problems rather than indoctri-
nating them with untested moral values. It is the responsibil-
ity of parents, not schoolteachers, to provide moral guidance.
Ms. Baxter blames liberalism for enabling a few disgruntled
youths to rationalize violence.

This rationalization is human by nature, not necessarily
learned through liberal education. True, people have used
moral relativity to’ justify what many people would consider
bad behavior. But many have also used moral absolutism in
much the same way.

Liberal education should not be dismantled because of
these failures. Many people struggle with liberalism and
moral relativity because its foundation is that we cannot be
certain that what we think we know is true. This uncertainty
can unsettle, but it can also liberate and empower.

Ms. Baxter proceeds to demonize openness and tolerance
in the name of absolute faith. This attack is rash and illogi-
cal.People are capable of holding beliefs while accepting the
incongruity of their beliefs with those of others. Those who
aren’t seem to me to be the bigger danger. This paradox—
that the only orthodoxy :is heterodoxy—is the very basis of
classical liberalism and of our American society.

Our Constitution guarantees the right of free speech to
anyone, even those who use it to disparage the Constitution.
In other words, those who disagree are welcome to disagree,
but not to prevent others from disagreeing.

Finally, I hope for the good of our country and the future
of our world that Carey Baxter is wrong—that liberalism
isn’t a tragedy. The hope of a liberal education is that our
“amoeba-like existence,” as she says, during the cognitive
development stage might someday evolve into a higher life
form, capable of maintaining convictions but also aware of
the flexibility of our beliefs and considerate of others’ differ-
ences. :

Stephen Kalin is a freshman from Tappan, N.Y. Contact
him at stkalin@davidson.edu.

Bush got booed out of Central
America this past week. Our presi-
dent was completely ridiculed and
dismissed by both the smaller
countries of Central America and
the superpowers there, such as
Argentina and Brazil. Though it
may not seem unusual or out of the
ordinary that Bush was ill received
a by these foreign countries, the
principle causes of his unpopulari-
ty in this instance might be surpris-
ing.

The main reason behind the
opposition rallies, the cold recep-
tion by the foreign governments, and the lack of serious con-
sideration of Bush were the ideals he brought with him as
tools to promote the Central American economy. These tools
were free trade and a liberal, capitalist economy.

Surprising to anyone else?

Considering America, the world’s economic superpower, is
founded on these two principles, why would they be met with
such vehement rejection by the Central American countries
whose economies pale in comparison to ours?

Can’t these countries recognize a good thing when they see
one?

Yes, to put it succinctly, they can.

So, again, why the negative response? It has nothing to do
with these economic principles and everything to do with
American hypocrisy that is, right now, destroying the
€conomies and populations of developing countries world-
wide.

It is easy for Bush to travel abroad spouting idealistic jar-
gon about economic expansion through free trade that will
benefit not ohly struggling countries but America herself, but
it has proved much harder for Bush to actually make the
changes which would allow those ideals to be put into action.

Presently, America is in the middle of one of the most pro-
ductive harvest seasons in the country’s history: farmers are
faced with grain surpluses that are littering their fields with
mountain-sized grains of corn and wheat. In this time of
American plenty, imagine the good that could be done world-
wide with this food!

What is actually being done?

Nothing.

In fact, this time of plenty has aggravated worldwide prob-
lems simply because Bush has not had the courage to stand
up to the agricultural sector of the government and imple-
ment reform to current, ludicrously large, agricultural subsi-
dies.

halley’s comment

HALLEY AELION

Due to the disproportionate power the now outdated agri-
cultural sector still holds in the American government, farm-
ers receive lavish protection from agricultural imports and
are assured copious government funding. Therefore, this
year’s harvest is costing taxpayers inordinate amounts of
money, while excess grain remains uselessly piled high on
American farms.

Why not export the grain to the starving people of sub-
Saharan Africa?

Bureaucracy, shipping complications, and funding all
stand in the way of this endeavor and ensure that the food
would not arrive to the needy in time.

Ironically, Bush’s administration also opposes the alterna-
tive and much more efficient plan of funding agricultural
development in Africa itself at the demand of American
farmers scared of losing any hegemony over worldwide
food production.

So what does this have to do with Central America?

High trade barriers and useless
subsidies encouraging outdated
priorities must go.

Everything.

Overstuffed with grain, the last thing America wants is
more agricultural produce coming into the country. So,
while Bush went to Central America to superficially encour-
age “free trade,” he was actually encouraging Central
America to open up its borders to American exports while
simultaneously keeping American borders closed to Central
American imports. Obviously the majority of Central
America’s exports will be less developed primary resources
such as foods and produce as it is an area dominated by
developing countries.

So what does Bush’s promise really hold for them?

Nothing.

Is his hostile reception any less of a mystery now?

The American government needs to do some serious
thinking about its policies in light of our new, globalized
reality. If this new world is to be founded on liberal
economies and democratic ideals, America must do her part
to encourage such interconnectedness. High trade barriers
and useless subsidies encouraging outdated priorities must
go. Maybe after we catch up with the times, others will let
us help them do the same.

Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md., and is co-
editor of the Perspectives Section. Contact her at haae-
lion@davidson.edu.

Celebrate community this Thanksgiving

Thursdays are usually good
days for me. But this Thursday, the
17, is going to be particularly awe-
some. If you don’t know why, then
you need to meet me at Vail
Commons around noon, when I
get out of class. I don’t plan on
leaving until 1:45 p.m.

Thursday is Commons’ annual
Thanksgiving Luncheon, aka
Turkey Day. I love Commons’
turkey dinner. Since my mother
may read this, I will say, quite hon-
estly, that home cooking can’t be
beat. But the Thanksgiving meal at
Commons gives, er, other moms a run for their money.

And while it may sound trite and hackneyed to say so, I am
thankful for that meal. In the hungry sense of, wow, there’s a
lot of food on my plate. In the globally conscious sense of,
wow, I have a plate and I have food on it in the first place.
But most of all, in what I would call the truly Thanksgiving
sense of, wow, someone else made lunch for me.

I suggest we would do well to
give thanks not only for what has
been given to us, but more so for

the people who do the giving.

face the nathan

NATHAN BRADSHAW

I would like to propose a re-evaluation of the word
“Thanksgiving.” As most elementary school students learn, it
comes from the notion that one should give thanks for that
which one has. Most American families go around the table
on Thanksgiving and share specific things for which they are
thankful—a custom I consider to be a great reminder of the
values of humility, gratitude, and joy.

The value I would like to place at the top of that list, how-
ever, is community. I suggest we would do well to give

thanks not only for what has been given to us, but more so
for the people who do the giving.

If I say on Thanksgiving Day that I am thankful for the
delectable turkey in front of me, that’s only partly true. I’m
probably more thankful that my parents, or friends, whoever
handles the turkey in a given year, put in the effort to cook
said turkey.

Ultimately, I’m more thankful that I have a family and
friends—a community—who cook and share a meal with
me.

The principle must not apply to
only one meal on only one day.

So my point initially was going to be that those of us who
walk into Vail on Thursday and delight in the food that
awaits us should be thankful, and should very directly state
our gratitude, for the hands that prepared it. I was going to
ask everyone to remember to thank the Commons staff, the
people within our community who prepare our food, for that
lunch.

But the principle must not apply to only one meal on only
one day. Yes, please do thank the people at Commons who
cook your food, put it on your plate, and wash your dishes on
Thursday. —

But if you leave it at that, you’ve missed the point. The
holiday may bring up the occasion for thanking the Dining
Service Workers, but the fact that we owe them thanks is
something we should remember at every meal.

Maybe this very wordy advice to just express your grati-
tude is unnecessary—I certainly hope so. Personally, I’ve
been uncomfortable with how few people do this on a regu-
lar basis in Commons.

Whether it’s already a habit of yours or not, please remem-
ber, on Thursday, on Friday, and every day, to say “thanks.”

Nathan Bradshaw is a sophomore from Swannanoa, N.C.
Contact him at nabradshaw@davidson.edu.
