| PERS

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 28, 2005

Staff Editorial

Lectures, events deserve
more than student apathy

What was your excuse?

“T had a huge paper due the next day ... and“ hadn’t start-
ed it.”

“I was still recovering from the weekend.”

“T forgot.”

Turnout at Monday’s “A Night for New Orleans” benefit
concert was disappointing. Only 642 tickets were sold, and
that includes general public.

The reasons for missing events on campus are always the
same. Yet that’s no excuse for such a low student turnout
when tickets were free (with a suggested donation) and the
cause was so noble.

A lot is made of the notion that college is about more than
what we learn in the classroom. Usually, that’s applied to
emphasize the value of social experiences and peer learning.
Sometimes, it’s used to justify taking the night off just to go
to a game.

It’s also relevant when we’re talking about visitors to and
special events in this community. These one-time events give
a new voice and raise issues students would otherwise be
without.

A healthy intellectual diet cannot be fed by E. H. Little,
Chambers, and the Belk computer lab alone.

There are talks coming up by Davidson alumni. There are
lectures about diversity on campus and in society. Your pro-
fessors will opine on matters of faith in the Profs on God
series. Where will you be when they roll around?

Davidson students complain about the “college bubble”
environment where it can be easy to feel disconnected from
the outside world.

Yet, when the college goes to great lengths to bring pieces
of the real world here, too many shun them.

Organizers of this weekend’s alumnus speech have
expressed concern about low student turnout at past events.
As we report,-David Rozelle ’95 will speak about his power-
ful experiences as an Iraqi war veteran. He is a man who has
not only answered the call to serve, but one who overcame
adversity and did so with the character and determination.

Leave your books in the library, drink an extra glass of
water before bed following Friday’s semi-formals, or do
whatever it takes to get up and over to Duke Family
Performance Hall on Saturday morning.

You owe it to your $34,000-plus education and you owe it
to yourself.

The Davidsonian

@ ALLNDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBLITIAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor.
Halley Aelion & Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & Reid Wildman
Yowl Editors
Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel
Sports Editors
Monica Jamouneau & Pierce Trumbo
Photography Editor
Jessica Hodge
Business Manager
Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Sarah Bogue & Janelle Milanes

+ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR +

Sororities build walls

I was extraordinarily disturbed to read of a movement to
start a historically African-American sorority at Davidson
(“Eating Houses: A Retrospective,” Sept. 14).

If it comes to fruition, this organization will deal yet anoth-
er blow to Davidson’s already fragile race relations. Let me
preface my argument with a bit of background. I come from
a community with much more racial diversity than Davidson,
but that is not what truly differentiates it.

Until I came to Davidson, I had always lived in’ places
where race was one label by which people identified them-
selves but absolutely nothing more. Colorblind community
was a wonderful way to live.

When I arrived at Davidson, I was not surprised by the
lack of diversity here. Instead, I was dismayed by the self-
imposed segregation on this campus.

At the same time, Patterson Court, social organizations
have the potential to break down these and other social
boundaries.

Through my fraternity, I have become friends with men I
probably would never have had any social contact with but
for our bond as members of Phi Gamma Delta. This story is
replayed in most if not all fraternities and eating houses on
this campus.

By permitting social organizations which reinforce the
walls Davidson puts up within itself rather than tearing them
down, the College defeats the very purpose of Patterson
Court.

If the Davidson community cares even a little about our
rhetoric of diversity, condemnation for the movement to fur-
ther racial labels should be immediate and widespread. .

Ryan Clark ‘07

Faculty letter off target

I have been very interested to hear and read all of the dis-
cussion and, in particular, the criticism directed at The Yowl
from Sept. 7.

While I am pleased to know that people are paying atten-

tion to issues of objectification and é¢specially sexual assault
on Davidson’s campus, I think that feminists have misdirect-
ed their concern. a

When it comes to feminism, I am on board. I am afraid,
however, that the signers of the faculty-petition reasserting
feminism and authors of various perspectives and letters to
the ‘editor (Sept. 14 and 21) who call The Yowl articles
offensive to women are accusing their allies.

The characters in the Yowl who demean and prey on
women are despicable—no one argues that. If the petition
endorsed by. many faculty members were aimed against
these sexual predators and superficial morons, I think we
would find that everyone would sign it, Yowl editors and
uncomplaining readers included.

The editors of The Yowl did not create nor promote objec-
tification and sexual assault at Davidson. They announced
and criticized existing issues and made it possible for us all
to identify someone who has acted a little like “Sketchy
Steve” and mock him.

I am a feminist, but I do not want these articles censored
or apologized for. Maybe all they do is call out and ridicule
these characters.

I hope, however, that they encourage the campus to more
actively combat the behavior of a few pathetic and awful
people who offend men and women alike.

Becky Nolin ‘06
President, Rape Awareness
Committee

The Davidsonian welcomes letters

to the editor. Please e-mail submis-

sions of no more than 250 words to
davidsonian@davidson.edu by 6

p.m. on Sunday. We reserve the
right to edit for content, brevity and
grammar.

Davidson women of color deserve sorority

By WHITNEY WHITE AND CHERITA JEFFREYS
Guest Columnists

Approximately 70 percent of Davidson women are mem-
bers of eating houses; however, less than three percent of
these women are women of color (Woc) and less than one
percent of these women are African American. It is estimat-
ed that only 11 percent of Woc join eating houses and even
less black women (seven percent) join.

Despite these statistics, we believe that eating houses are
inclusive of Woc; however, many Woc opt out of eating
houses largely because of cultural differences. The preva-
lence of alcohol at social func-

NPHC sororities have a national process for membership.
Qualified applicants must maintain minimum GPAs of 2.5
while remaining active in community service and leadership
positions. They must attend regional and national confer-
ences for the sorority, and their chapter decisions are guided
by a graduate adult member of the sorority. Membership is
for life.

Thus, the legacy and networking a NPHC sorority pro-
vides its members is invaluable: We have all heard, “It’s not
always what you know, but who you know” or “membership
has its privileges.” As we work towards successful futures,
we want access to these opportunities now. :
Eating houses contribute so

tions also deters some women, We simply ask Davidson students
to think outside of comfortable

but not all.
This semester several Woc
have joined to bring a histori-

much to Davidson’s campus.
We just want the opportunity
to contribute even more. We
want the Davidson College

cally black (National Pan- Stereotypes and connotations asso- community to understand and

Hellenic Council) sorority to
Davidson. Two benefits of this

ciated with the word sorority.

appreciate the heritage of all
groups, including Woc. Some

include making Patterson Court

more attractive to Woc and bridging the gap, obvious to
many students, that exists in the social fiber of this campus.
In previous years, Davidson women were given the option to
abolish the eating house system to allow sororities. The
majority voted to maintain the current system. Our proposal
respects this desire and requests the addition of a NPHC
sorority to Patterson Court.

Although NPHC sororities were founded to address’ the
needs of black women, these organizations have accepted
women of all ethnicities, including Eleanor Roosevelt.
These organizations commit themselves to scholarship, serv-
ice and sisterhood, and those ideals disregard race.

We simply ask Davidson students tg, think outside of com-
fortable stereotypes and connotations associated with the
word sorority. We ask that you assess our efforts through a
fresh perspective with open hearts willing to listen and
process new information.

suggest that a NPHC sorority
will segregate the campus although an examination of the
Statistics supports an existing divide.

We believe that allowing a NPHC sorority to join
Patterson Court would allow us access and a voice in work-
ing to overcome some of these separations. Additionally, any
woman who joins a NPHC sorority could have dual member-
ship in an eating house (and vice versa). :

It is our hope that this column will prompt the Davidson
College community to research and formulate ideas as indi-

' viduals in the earnest attempt to understand and respect our

request. You may still disagree with us or not understand our
needs, but we simply ask that you support Woc in our quest
for a space that we can call our own.

Whitney White and Cherita Jeffreys are sophomores.
Contact them at  whwhite@davidson.edu and
chjeffreys@davidson.edu.
