. ARTS & LIVING

Tea for two:

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Friday afternoons, often reserved for frol-
icking, fun, or much needed naps, are a little
bit different at 559 Concord Road. Rather
than discussing their weekend plans, stu-
dents gather at the home of McGee Director
of Dean Rusk International Studies and
Associate Professor Political Science Chris
Alexander to converse about international
issues affecting their daily lives, all while
enjoying some tea, tasty treats, and good
company. At these “Tea Time” discussions,
held every other Friday afternoon, the topics
range from last semester’s “Democracy in
Iraq: Impractical Dream to Idealistic
Possibility?” to last week’s “Genocide and
the U.N.: Is Prevention Possible?”

“We usually take a look at what’s going on
in the news or what’s going on around cam-
pus to select a topic,” says Lee Anthony ’07,
Co-Chair of the Dean Rusk Student
Advisory Council. Anthony feels that as if
Tea Times are a wonderful forum for stu-
dents to discuss subjects important to them,
but also thinks “they are a good place to
learn more about issues that you might have
little or no knowledge about.”

“Even if you just come to a Tea Time to
listen, you'll come away knowing so much
more about a topic than you did before.”

Dr. Alexander agrees, saying, “We also try
to diversify the issues to get away from the
Political Science and Economic slant, so as
to appeal to all students.”

He is pleased with this year’s Tea Time
turnouts, “These have been the most well
attended discussions we’ve had since they
started.” Dr. Alexander thought up the idea

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 27, 2005

discussions with international spice

for Tea Time after coming to teach at
Davidson three years ago. “I noticed the
divide between the Dean Rusk Program and
the students,” he said. “I felt as if they saw it
purely as a program that provided grants and
hosted speakers.”
Dr. Alexander envisioned

“Tea Time” as a way to
“bridge the gap
between —_ what
people learn in
the classroom

and
what they do in their
daily lives,” as part of what he considers
a “full liberal arts education.”

Gathered in the his cozy living room on
comfy couches and chairs, students shared
their opinions last week about why the

United Nations has taken relatively little
action to stop the Darfur genocide. Nate
Shestak ’07, who coordinated the “Darfur at
Davidson” week, stated that the West’s inac-
tion is indicative of its uncaring attitude
toward the African situation. He also noted
that a new clause in the U.N.’s sanctions
on genocide “are sorely lacking”
when it comes to allowing for
preventative measures to be
taken against the mass
killings.

Joseph

Adams ’06 asked if there should be a
requirement or realization of possible results
before intervention, or whether countries
should intervene regardless of the outcome.

Performance quenches ‘A Thirst’

By MIKE WELLMAN
Special Contributor

Arriving at the theater on Sunday after-
noon, I honestly did not know too much
about the play “A Thirst.” I’d been told to
see it by a friend, and while I knew that the
topic was disability rights, I was convinced
when the play was described
as being “worth seeing.” “A
Thirst,” directed by Athena
Stevens ’06, was well worth
seeing for entertainment and
to increase understanding of
life issues as a disabled per-
son. The production benefited
the Sunflower Foundation, a
charity that, among other
activities, aims to promote
awareness of disability rights
and tutors disabled children in
Budapest, Hungary.

“A Thirst” emphasized that
a major problem of the treat-
ment of people with disabili- -
ties is that many choose to
brush aside the issue and sim-
ply ignore the existence of
those who are disabled. The
play not only points out the
pain that is associated with
this treatment, but also the fact
that it is entirely possible in a
matter of moments to move
from being perfectly healthy to all of a sud-
den being placed in a situation that they had
never dreamed possible.

Another theme of the play was that people
with disabilities long to be treated as equals.
In one scene, a woman laments the fact that
she is treated as an asexual being, when she

 eo+retveetvRrn eas rte

too wishes to be cherished and loved as a
woman by someone else. This issue is also
present in the scenes in which those with dis-
abilities feel powerless or forced to succumb
to the insensitivities of others. Being com-
mended when one doesn’t deserve praise
because of a disability or not being thought
of at all is hurtful even if good intentions

Kevin Bell ’05 delivers a narration emphasizing human irperfection.

were in mind when people act this way.

' The play also explored the psychological

handicap that is imposed on those with dis-
abilities. Athena herself tells of the problems
that she has dealt with in which she has com-
pared herself to the standard image of per-

fection that is never achieved except for on

magazine covers. Athena makes the observa-
tion that, while there is no cure for her dis-
ability, many of the issues associated with
the disability can and should be prevented
from causing emotional harm.

Kevin Bell ’05 narrated a science fiction
story in which accure for all health problems
exists, as people have the ability to live for-
ever in perfect health. This
future turns out to be bleak-
er than expected, however,
as the people sink into para-
noia and lose their ability to
appreciate the wonders of
the world. The implied
message is that humans
were never meant to
achieve perfection, and that
by shedding the prejudice
of perfection, we would be
able to enjoy more fulfill-
ing lives.

Though the play power-
fully delivered a worth-
while message, it had an
occasional tendency to fly
into the abstract, so that it
could sometimes be diffi-
cult ‘to understand com-
pletely. This problem did
not occur often, however,
and did not hamper the
understanding of the play’s
message. The actors in the
play did fantastic jobs, delivering their lines
with a passion that demonstrated honest care
for the topic of the play.

“A Thirst” was a thoroughly enjoyable
production, and its message of understand-
ing of the issues of disabilities will hopeful-
ly reach fruition.

The group also discussed logistical possibil-
ities of interference in the crisis, as well as
the void in international action being taken
to stop it.

Though opinions noticeably differed, the
one consistent element of Tea Time is’ that
the discussion is entirely student led. Dean
Rusk Fellow Hannah Fuhr ’04 regards this as
a good thing, because “students can speak
their minds freely.”

“This year, there has been a diverse group
of people at Tea Times,” says Fuhr, “rather
than the same core people we’d have at
meetings during the last couple of years.”

She requests that students R.S.V.P for Tea
Times and caps them at 20 students, in
order to make the setting more com-
fortable.

“One thing that makes them
attractive is that you can sit on a
couch in a nice living room,” she
says. “I don’t think as many people
would come if they were held in the
Union.”

Students are also welcome to some deli-
cious treats and tea before discussion time,
which are generously provided by Dr.
Alexander and his wife. Discussions last
from 3:30 to 4:30 p.m., but students are wel-
come to stay for a while after if there is more
they’d wish to say about a given topic.
Though last week’s Tea Time was the final
one of the year, students will have the
opportunity to attend next semester, when
they start again in the fall. .

“More people should come out and not
feel intimidated about it,’ says Anthony,
“because Tea Times really are a great way to
share, learn, and become more aware of
what’s going on in the world.”

WANT TO EDIT FOR”
ARTS & LIVING
NEXT SEMESTER?

We'll pay you $20

and a pound of

: carrion flesh. It’s
really not that bad,

we swear.

