14 THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

A ‘pivotal’ debate Alcohol policy changes may hurt safety

for college’s future
This is a pivotal year for our

institution, possibly the most
important since the beginning of
coeducation or integration. And
everybody has an opinion—
while most students back the
decision to allow our Board of
Trustees to be more ecumenical,
many important alumni believe
. that we are betraying our
. Presbyterian roots. Case in
‘Ss point: the resignation of trustees
John M. Belk ’43 and Steven B.
Smith ’66.

And you know what? They were right to resign. Our
trustees represent Davidson, guide the spirit of our college,
and, admittedly, are vital to our fundraising efforts. If Mr.
Belk and Mr. Smith no longer believe in the direction of this
institution, they would be bearing false witness to represent
us further. I respect their decision, and I do not think they are
“bigoted” for resigning.

I am sorry to see them go, and yet I understand why they
must. I hope their exploration of the Presbyterian faith leads
them to the conclusion that the creation of an ecumenical
Board of Trustees will help us govern in a more Christian
manner, not less. I am glad that they are maintaining their
commitments to the college, and I hope that in the future they
may be able to reconcile with Davidson.

This is not to say that the rationale behind their sea change
is sound. Roy Davis ’55, who voted against the change, refut-
ed Mr. Smith’s claim that the process was unfair.
Furthermore, a solid majority of alumni support the change,
including an overwhelming majority of the 30-40 percent of
living alumni that have attended Davidson since 1990. A
majority of Davidson’s alumni and friends supported the
decision because it was the right thing to do, and I too believe
we should allow people of all faiths serve on the Board of
Trustees. While some have accused the Board of overzealous
political correctness, they have done their duty to our col-
lege, to our alumni and students, and to the faith that many
friends of our college share in Jesus Christ.

A misguided column in this newspaper painted the critics
of Mr. Belk and Mr. Smith as Stalinists who were ignorant of
all that Mr. Belk has done for Davidson. Though that com-
ment was simply inappropriate, equally imprudent was a col-
umn calling Belk’s reaction “close-minded and ignorant.”

The writer criticized Mr. Belk for “not being very
Christian,” and while I think that allowing people of all faiths
on the Board of Trustees is the Christian thing to do, I also
believe that he who is without sin should cast the first stone.
Writing a tactless harangue against Mr. Belk is not only cal-
low; it turns a victory for civil rights into a hateful squabble.
To quote our greatest civil rights leader: “Darkness cannot
drive out darkness; only light can do that.”

Another critic said the change came about to assure the
outside world that Davidson “gets it.” I think the change may
have been encouraged by Davidson’s recent instances of “not
getting it’; the Yom Kippur fiasco comes to mind.
Nevertheless, there is no proof of ulterior motives. He also
critiqued the 80/20 percent ratio, but I think that it is a ration-
al division since at least 80 percent of our alumni are
Christians. The ratio stays true to our roots while being inclu-
sive.

I believe I speak for most of the student body when I say
that the philanthropy of Mr. Belk and Mr. Smith has been
invaluable to our community. I also believe that while most
students are in favor of the change, even more students and
alumni want a constructive dialogue.

If one side cries “bigotry” while the other side accuses the
College of selling its soul to the PC gods, this change will not
be for the better and could very well split the College apart.
Progressives must remember that tolerance means more than
respecting other faiths. Being tolerant also means that we
respect people with different opinions and different interpre-
tations of our common faith.

However, tolerance is not an ambitious enough goal. We
must engage in a constructive dialogue so that we can learn
to respect one another regardless of our opinions. In the eyes
of the Reformed tradition, we are all children of God. Our
fellowship in learning at Davidson should defeat intolerance
and help us learn to respect one another; otherwise, we will
be abandoning our heritage in a way that is infinitely more
detrimental than any change to our board of trustees. =

SAM SPENCER

Sam Spencer is a sophomore physics and political science
double major from Davidson, N.C. Contact him at
saspencer @ davidson.edu.

By BILL SOMMERS
Guest Columnist

The Alcohol and Drug Policy Review Task Force, Bobby
Vagt and the Council on Campus and Religious Life are in a
dilemma regarding underage alcohol consumption on cam-
pus. The administration must walk a fine line between two
extremes; they must appropriately address their financial lia-
bilities while still striving to social functions on campus.

In this editorial, I will examine the revisions to the CCRL
has made to the recommendations set forth by the Alcohol
and Drug Policy Review Task Force. The changes to the Risk
Management Policy are the most pertinent to Patterson Court
social events, so I will focus on them.

The revisions made by CCRL are meant to help Patterson
Court organizations by lessening the fixed cost of throwing a
function. Now all party worker positions, including both risk
managers, the bartender and the ID checker, could be filled
by members of the host organization.

Dean Marsicano is quoted in last week’s Davidsonian as
saying, “The goal is to get students to plan ahead.” The best-
case scenario for any social function at Patterson Court
would have a sufficient amount of risk managers. As Dean
Marsicano knows, this requires planning. Impromptu social
functions are called that due to that fact that they are sponta-
neous.

As I stated in my previous editorial, the need for the prior
planning which CCRL wants to require will force true
impromptus off campus. Why is the school pushing students
away from social functions where the majority of people are
risk trained? Off campus social events are not guaranteed to
have a high percentage of risk managed students. Unlike on
campus social events, there is no officer on call who will
drop in intermittently. Finally, at Patterson Court houses
there is virtually zero drug use.

I believe that the school has a valid interest in protecting
their financial liability should a worst-case scenario ever
occur; however, pushing impromptu functions off campus
may create a worst-case scenario, such as a drunken driving
death because of more off campus parties. The danger is
compounded by the uncertainty of the Vamonos Van’s status
next year.

CCRL allowing in-house risk management is a step in the
right direction, because it lessens the cost of most social
functions. The house would still need to hire risk managers,
etc. for closed social functions, since all members would
want to attend. However, this only takes place about once a
semester. No solution is perfect, and thus both parties, the

administration and the Patterson Court organizations, must
compromise. :

Many students at this school,;question why the Alcohol
Review Task Force exists. Some see it as antagonistic, some
see it as reactionary. Since the administration believes that
the status quo does not sufficiently protect their financial lia-
bility, however, change is necessary.

The new propositions are concerned with the quality of the
risk management offered by one person with their current
training. More risk managers at parties may help with the
quality of risk management at a party, but at some point the
quality of risk training should be examined.

The class is 45 minutes and is primarily concerned with
Patterson Court protocol such as where to get the risk man-
ager’s bag or how to fill out the risk assessment sheet. These
are in place to show us how to limit the college’s financial
liability. But, to what degree should risk managers be con-
cerned with the physical risks to the students at Court social
functions. Should training include CPR training or some-
thing other than Court protocol?

“these changes may create a
worst-case scenario, such as a
drunken driving death because of
off campus parties.”

The answer for every scenario posed in the training session
is either get house management or get the police officer.
Then it would logically follow that all risk managers and
Patterson Court members should have the number for the
police officer on call.

The question of quantity versus quality is at hand. Are four
trained students working at-a party better than one or two
well trained risk managers? Faculty, next semester sit,in on
one of these training sessions and make the decision for
yourself.

What this entire situation reveals is the need for dialogue
between administration and the student body. These deci-
sions are being made in the interest of people that are for the
most part not present when the decisions are being made.
Incorporating those affected by the changes will be most
valuable both to the students and the administration.

Bill Sommers is a sophomore history major from Houston,
Tx Contact him at bisommers@davidson.edu.

Failure is never the end of the world

I hate comparing Davidson to a
bubble like so many people do. I
mean, it’s not an entirely false
metaphor, but it implies that
Davidson students have some kind
of protective force field around
them. The truth is our intelligence
and privilege do not grant us immu-
nity from life’s hard knocks.

I’m going to be honest with you
here: a sizeable portion of my col-
lege experience has been spent bat-
tling depression. I’m not ashamed
of it; I just can’t help but feel that admitting to depression is
like admitting failure. Sometimes failure just seems so
uncool.

When I hear about everyone’s summer plans, I wonder
what happened to living at home, having a blue-collar job
and making minimum wage. Now it seems that everyone I
know is going abroad to do some kind of research on a topic
entirely over my head or has an internship with some big
important corporation or is training wild monkeys in the
Amazon (or something like that).

I get the feeling that mediocrity just doesn’t cut it. And
being unhappy is completely out of the question.

I was really surprised when my friends confronted me last
year and asked me what was wrong. I thought, “Damn, I’m
not as good at hiding it as I’d hoped.” I felt incredibly
ashamed and embarrassed. I wish I’d known then what I
know now—that having problems to deal with and obstacles
to overcome doesn’t make you weak or flawed. It just makes
you human. é

In the “shiny happy people holding hands” world of the

get the picture

\HRENDI

GEORGI

Davidson “bubble,” we can’t be jovial all the time or go

mechanically and efficiently through our hectic schedules
without any setbacks. Despite our best efforts and our most
ambitious attempts to act like we’ve got everything under
control, bad things inevitably happen.

Forget thinking about how you probably don’t deserve it. I
doubt those who got up to speak at the “Take Back the
Night” event on March 21 thought they deserved to be the
victims of sexual assault. Rape is not something that anyone
asks for. It just happens, and no amount of intelligence or
know-how is going to help you in a situation like that.

I hate to sound so negative. I don’t mean to-say that we
should accept that life sucks and move on. Rather, I want to
say that even though we would like to think we’re invinci-
ble—that we can drive at high speeds, stay-up all night and
drink ourselves into a stupor without the slightest conse-
quence—we’re breakable all the same.

I think it’s great to set high standards and to never settle for -
being average, but I don’t think it’s healthy to be hard on
yourself all the time or to make no room for failure.

There’s so much in this world and at Davidson to be thank-
ful for, but when bad things happen (to good people, to use a
cliché), it’s okay to admit defeat, to realize you’re not per-
fect, to get help, to move on and to maybe learn something
about yourself.

As for me, I’ve become a card-carrying member of the
Zoloft generation. I realized I couldn’t feel better all on my
own. As it turns out, no one expected me to.

Setbacks, both minor (bouts of depression) and major
(date rape), don’t have to permanently send your whole
world speeding out of control like the Hurler at Carowinds.
We may not be in the “real world” just yet, but real world
problems still find their way into our quiet enclave of green
lawns and sprawling oaks.

And that’s okay. As long as we admit things like that can
and do happen here, we are better prepared to handle and
overcome them.

I realize I may have just popped your Davidson bubble, but
fear not—take a deep breath; you’ll find there’s a lot more
room to breathe.

Georgie Ahrendt is a junior sociology major from
Columbia, S.C. Contact her at geahrendt@ davidson.edu.
