. ARTS & LIVING

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 6, 2005

Frisbee golf: disc fun Without the sweating

KATHRYN WYLE
Staff Writer

With the shouts of “owned!!!” resounding
from Chambers lawn and legions of
“Davidson Ultimate” hoodies confronting
you wherever you turn, it’s hard to miss the
Frisbee presence on this campus.

But do you realize, gentle reader, that
there is more to this phenomenon than the
minions of DUFF? Perhaps you’ve played a
game of pickup Ultimate in your day, or been
a recipient of the famous DUFF emailing,
but have you yet discovered the joys of disc
golf?

You’ ve seen them teeing off as you walked
down to your frat or eating house for meals;
maybe you have even unwillingly joined in
their game, when that poorly aimed hammer-
throw whizzed just past your ear.

As the weather grows increasingly lovely
and your work ethic grows increasingly
threadbare, take the time to go play a round
with friends and see for yourself what the
differences between a putter and a driver are,
or why there is underwear hanging in a tree
along the course.

Disc golf began about 30 years ago when
a bright soul named Ed Headrick realized
that Ultimate Frisbee involved far too much
running, not to mention coordination of large
groups of people.

With disc golf you need neither a pen-
tathelete’s body nor a sorority girl’s bevy of
friends (though both are certainly. with their
merits, should you have them). In its most

pure form, disc golf is an internal battle, a
challenge between (wo)man and disc.

In its less pure—though no less enjoy-
able—forms, it can also involve friends,

pets, coolers, and copious bushwhacking to
recover lost discs.
The aim of disc golf is really quite simple.

Davidson’s campus harbors not one but
two courses: the first begins on Patterson
Court between SigEp and Fiji, continues out
behind satellite before looping back and con-
cluding by Commons. The second, less well-
known course is hidden at the lake campus.

It bears mentioning in all of this that not

DUFF enthusiasts practice their disc tossing skills with warm-up drills.

Move the Frisbee from the tee-off point to
the basket in the minimum number of
throws. Each hole has a par (but don’t at all
feel ashamed should you at first far exceed
it) as well as topographic challenges
designed to thwart you in your achievement
of that par.

UPCOMING EVENTS:

all discs are alike.

One very easy way to betray your igno-
rance is to confuse the equipment of
Ultimate Frisbee with the titular tool of Disc
Golf.

Regulation Ultimate Frisbees are larger,
lighter, shaped differently, and hold far more

. Strawberry milk. Disc; golf Frisbees are

small, heavy, and come in putters, drivers,
and midrange.

Both, however, can be found for hire at
Davidson Outdoors.

Just as golfers take great pride in the tita-
nium-alumnium core nine iron, serious Disc
golfers are similarly finicky about their
Frisbees.

Discs vary in stability and the type of plas-
tic, whether they “float” or not; you can even
order discs painted in colors that show under
ultraviolet ‘light. Though it is by nature a
simple, relatively unencumbering sport, the
true enthusiast can amass quite a collection
of paraphernalia and debate the merits of
Wham-o to Discraft.

I was initially chagrined to discover that
disc golf courses do not generally involve
windmills, miniature castles, or animatronic
pirates. Instead, the targets are, in effect,
large chain baskets on poles.

Admittedly, these lack some of the exotic
charm of your standard putt-putt course, or
the groomed country club sophistication of
the PGA. But disc golf fills a different niche,
I would argue, placing the player in a more
naturalistic setting far from commercializa-
tion or kitsch where the sweet rattling of
chains mingles with birdsong.

So if you are stuck on campus over a break
(which begs the question, “Why aren’t you
paddling to Capers Island or hiking in the
Smokies?”) take advantage of a nice day and
celebrate your freedom from work by throw-
ing a small plastic disc at large metal poles.

GRILLED CHEESE

Since 1951

J

VEGGIE MELT - VEGGIE BURGER - VEGGIE HOAGIE
VEGGIE CHEESE WRAP ~ VEGGIE RANCH WRAP
SWEET POTATO FRIES - CAESAR SALAD

~ VEGETABLE SOUP

Pca: tresn souezzen Onanse Juice
HOMEMADE ORANGEADE, LEMONADE AMD LIMEADE

‘bet you didn't think, of US
for vegelarion fare!

Teh ) 996-774
04S. Maru St. Davioson WC

Eat-in Take-out _

896-7743

Sat-Thur 8-8 Fri 8-9

