THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

Applauding mixed reactions

By SARA SAMS
Arts & Living Editor

Ambiguous ,characters place a delicate
responsibility in the hands of theatrical inter-
preters, directors and actors alike, and spark
a heated debate over the aecuracy of charac-
ter portrayal.

Shakespeare, undeniably a master of his
trade, did not wield ambiguity carelessly—
each line and every heartfelt absence of lines
are purposeful. Characters such as Julius
Caesar are meant to leave the audience ques-
tioning the intentions and morality.

The question of the hour, then, is not of
accuracy, but whether it is possible for a per-
formance to embed too much unsubstantiat-
ed decisions; whether modern interpretations
interfere with the original intent of the verse.

What needs to be understood is that the
magic of drama is its malleability: what
might be gathered from reading words on the
page may be transformed on stage.

The play is not as constant as Caesar
claims himself to be, and possibly even less
so than Shakespeare might have hoped. But
it is best to avoid viewing a dramatic produc-
tion with myopic eyes.

The dichotomy that is created between
personal character interpretations and a pro-

duction’s portrayal of such charagters should
be embraced, and an inyestigation of vary-
ing responses is called for. ,

And though different choices made at the
production level might stray from the origi-
nal text (though some performances are so
rootless from Shakespeare’s writing that
they do lose original intent), it is the ability
of drama to explore new presentations that
allows plays to remain popular for over 400
years.

The actors and even the characters know
they are giving a presentation to a mulling
audience. Su¢h awareness is itself included
in the text, as Cassius proclaims to the audi-
ence: “How many ages hence/Shall this our
lofty scene be acted over/ In states unborn
and accents yet unknown?” (III.1).

Students’ vigorous dissension in response
to the Company’s powerful production of
“Julius Caesar” should not be surprising.
The inexistence of healthy disagreement
would be revealing of an inferior produc-
tion, and the plethora of reactions rather
relates the substance and talent packed into
the final presentation.

It is no question that the RSC’s “Julius
Caesar” was livened by the company’s own
interpretations and decisions, even those
arguably unintended by the playwright.

What did you think
of ‘Julius Caesar’?

“The RSC’s costume choice, particularly for
Caesar, sometimes interfered with my understand-
ing of the play. The “tribunes” in the opening
scene are dressed in leather jackets and jeans —
identical to the clothes worn by the “commoners”
described in the text. Caesar’s shockingly dramat-
Henry van Wagenberg ’07 ic shift in dress over the course of Act II — from
a Western suit to a Colonel Kadafi military tunic

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

7

— would seem to indicate a similarly dramatic change in the way we should
understand Caesar over this period, yet no such shocking about-face occurs in
the text. Caesar’s costume change is too harsh; subtler choices would have
been more appropriate.”

“‘Julius Caesar’ was the most inventive stage interpretation of all the RSC
productions I have seen, and I thought, on the whole, the dramatic risks the
-directors took were very successful. It was astute but not heavy-handed in its
commentary on contemporary issues, and despite the barrage of technology
and machine guns, the emphasis was ultimately on performing Shakespeare’s
language. “Two Gents’ had a doggy, though.”

Jimmy Newlin ’05

“Caesar was portrayed as a tyrant with manic- (= <y,!

d : : ” ? . 4® 2

epressive disorder. i oe
Rob Rusch ’08

“Personally, I was disappointed and borderline offended by the casting of
Caesar in contrast to that of Calpurnia. The image of the old balding white
man with his young, black trophy wife conjured up images of slave-
owner/mistresses that I have been exposed to growing up in Mississippi. The
use of an African-American woman as an “oracle” of sorts (through
Calpurnia’s dream sequence) also conjured up the voodoist stereotypes of the
‘African-American woman in post-slavery America”

David Dennis ’08

“T enjoyed RSC’s ability to make the language of
Shakespeare applicable in universal settings. It was
brilliant.”

*

Scott Buckhout 07

Lake Norman’s :
Finest Italian

ae

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

Sa ~ PREE MEDIUM CHEESE PIZZA
toy Lm Karee wpa oa 8 igi

Tipu ects Devens

