16

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
- OCTOBER 19, 2005

Six shutouts in seven games for women’s soccer

Photo by Richard Shayegan

Nancy Haskell ’07 plays in a game earlier this sea-
son. The ’Cats are now 10-4-1 overall.

\ BY SuzIE ECKL
Staff Writer

Four wins, two hat-tricks, 15
goals, three shutouts, 65 shots,
15 saves: Those are the numbers
for the women’s soccer team
over the past couple of weeks,
and numbers say a lot. Also,
don’t forget these numbers: an
unbeaten streak of nine, an over-

“all record of 10-4-1, and a SoCon

record of 6-0.

In their last four games, the
Wildcats have defeated
Appalachian State, The Citadel,
Furman, and Winthrop each by a
margin of three goals or more.

Against App State on Oct. 6,
Kara Koehrn ’06 led the pack
with three goals to propel the
Wildcats to a 4-1 victory. After
falling behind to the
Mountaineers with a 25th minute
goal, Koehrn was quick to
respond with her first goal less
than 10 minutes later. She netted
the ball over the head of the
goalkeeper:

“Tt was an outstanding individ-
ual effort by Kara Koehrn on that

first goal,” said coach Greg Ashton.

Seven minutes later, Koehrn struck again
as she headed the ball into the goal off of a
corer kick shot by Anne Stevens ’07.

Following the break at the half, Koehrn
notched her third of the night off a pass from
Kristen Koehrn ’08 to complete her first hat-
trick of the season. Neely Meeks ’09 finished
up the scoring for the night with her goal off
a pass from classmate Tiffany Mumby ’09
with just over a minute left to play. In 18
meetings with Appalachian State, Davidson
has never lost. .

Three days later, on Oct. 9, the Wildcats
took to the field again, this time at The
Citadel’s home field. In the 5-0 shutout for
the ’Cats, Koehrn recorded her second hat-
trick in as many games. Less than four min-
utes into the game, Koehrn drove past a
Bulldog defénder and beat the goaltender to
put Davidson on the board early.

The Wildcats dominated play as demon-
strated by the shot total of 27-4. Koehrn
knocked in two more goals, one a header
from Amanda Traver ’07 in the 19th minute
and the other from Kristen Koehrn in the
51st minute.

Said Ashton, ‘“Kara’s goals were well-
earned, and we came away with another
shutout, so we’re pleased with that.”

On Oct. 13, the Wildcats took on the

Paladins of Furman and came out with a 3-0

. win, Bevin English’s (’08) third shutout of

the season. Davidson had never before beat-
en Furman at the Paladins’ home field, and
last year, Davidson lost to Furman in the
finals of the SoCon Tournament.

Koehrn continued her dominance on the
field, recording two more goals on the night.
In their fifth Koehrn-to-Koehrn goal of the
season, Kristen sent a pass to Kara who then
beat a defender down the near side before
sending it into the net. Koehrn put up one
more before the break. Ali Rittenberg ’09
sent a long pass to Traver who crossed it to
Koehrn for the finish at the far post:

Furman came out strong after the half, put-
ting up nine shots to Davidson’s three.
Nevertheless, the ’Cats held them at zero and
got a final goal from Jessica Lahre ’07 off of
Mel Smith’s (’09) corner kick in the 57th
minute of play.

“Overall, it was a fantastic team effort,”
said Ashton. with enthusiasm. “Kara Koehrn
led the front line, and the first-years in the
back played well beyond their experience.”

On’ ‘Monday, the ’Cats continued their
unbeaten streak against Winthrop taking it to
nine games. This ties the record set by

“Bavidson’s 1999 team.

See Women’s Soccer, page 14

Cats trample Austin Peay; lose at Jacksonville

By MARK CLAYTON
Staff Writer

The Wildcats fel] 21-13 Saturday in a hard fought PFL
South game to the Jacksonville Dolphins. The loss com-
plicates projections of who will be the PFL-South divi-
sion champion.

With the loss, Davidson (3-4) falls to 1-1 in conference
play along with Jacksonville, while Morehead State sits
’ at the top the division at 2-0. The Wildcats have a chance
to control their own destiny this Saturday when they trav-
el to Jayne Stadium to take on the Eagles of Morehead
State. ;

The first half in Jacksonville was sloppy with the two
teams combining for five turnovers, but the Wildcat
turnovers proved to be more costly. The Dolphins’ first
touchdown came after a blocked punt that Jacksonville
carried all the way to the Davidson nine yard line.
Jacksonville- converted a fourth and goal from the one
yard line and took an early 7-0 lead.

The special teams unit made up for their blunder on
their next punt when Jeffrey Scott ’08 forced a fumble on
the Dolphin punt return that was recovered by Blake
Mitchell ’07 on the Jacksonville 14. ;

The ’Cats couldn’t capitalize with points as a Ryan
Alexander ’08 pass ended up in the hands of a
Jacksonville defender.

The Wildcat defense stepped up in the second quarter
when co-captain Ricky Childers ’06 recovered his sec-
ond fumble of the day to give Davidson great field posi-
tion.

This time Alexander and the offense executed. The
Wildcat quarterback found Jake Rice ’06 across the mid-

dle at the 25 yard line, and Rice took it the rest of the
way for the score. The, extra point was blocked and

the 7-6 score carried into half.

After each team punted, Jacksonville put together a
10-play, 75-yard drive to increase their lead to 14-6.
Two more second half turnovers cost the ’Cats scor-

ing opportunities.

The Dolphins converted the last turnover into seven
points on a 30-yard touchdown strike. Jacksonville
now led 21-6 with just 8:57 remaining in the fourth

quarter.

The Wildcats clawed back into the game with a

gutsy 11-play 87-yard touchdown drive. Aided by two
pass interference calls, the "Cats found themselves on
the Dolphin 2 yard line. Davidson went to the air to
‘score as Alexander found tight end Jackson Whetsel
’07 for the touchdown. The extra point was good this
time, and it was a one possession game with the score
21-13.

Davidson’s onside kick attempt could not be cor-
ralled by the ’Cats as the Dolphins secured the victo-
ry. Jacksonville converted a tough third and six and
ran out the clock with the new set of downs as the
’Cats fell 21-13. ;

With the loss, Davidson’s PFL South record sits at
1-1. The ’Cats divisional victory came just a week
earlier when Davidson defeated visiting Austin Peay
44-6.

The Saturday game took place during fall break
and might not have been seen by most of the student
body, but the small crowd saw an explosive ’Cats vic-

See Football page 15

The 'Cats racked up 443 total yards in a 44-6 win vs. Austin

Peay, but only had 287 yards in a 13-21 loss at Jacksonville.

iver SF die Week

Kara Koehrn ‘06

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Soccer Last minute heroics vs. College of Charleston
Hometown: be Mest, California With six minutes remaining and the ‘Cats trailing 2-1,
Major: Biology

men’s soccer needed a goal to force overtime. What
they recieved instead were two goals to win the game.
Jon Basset ‘o8 (shown to the right) scored the first in
the 84th minute of the game and then Robby Hoak
‘06 knocked in the second with only 55 seconds
remaining to give the ‘Cats the win.

Koehrn has scored seven goals in the Cats’ last three games to
help extend the team’s winning streak to seven games, She has
also been named SoCon player of the last two weeks.

i.
Bassett ‘06

