THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 28, 2005 3

Young Democrats to work
for former SGA president

By BRIAN MORAN
Staff Writer

The Young Democrats will be working for
the political campaign of Anthony Foxx, a
Davidson alumnus. Foxx, a Democrat run-
ning for one of four at-large seats on the
Charlotte City Council, won in the primaries
held Tuesday.

Foxx approached the organization over the
summer to ask for help with his campaign.
The Young Democrats will promote voter
awareness throughout Charlotte by calling
potential voters, canvassing neighborhoods,
and distributing campaign literature.

Now that Foxx has succeeded in the pri-
maries, he will run against Libertarian Justin
Cardone and Republican John Tabor, both of
whom are currently their parties’ sole regis-
tered candidates.

General elections for city council will take
place on November 8.

Co-president Stewart Pierce-Gardner °08
hopes that participation in the campaign will
allow club members to learn about local
campaigns while providing support for the
Foxx candidacy.

“This particular campaign has a distinct
advantage in allowing our members to get
involved in local politics, while at the same
time being able to learn more about how
small campaigns are created and run,”
Pierce-Gardner said.

Foxx, a native of Charlotte, graduated
from Davidson in 1993 and majored in histo-
ry. While here, he served as SGA president.

Following graduation, Foxx continued his
studies at the New York University School of
Law. After receiving his law degree, Foxx
worked in the Civil Rights Division of the
United States Department of Justice.

He then served as counsel to the United
States House of Representatives Judiciary
Committee.

Currently, Foxx works as an attorney for
the Charlotte office of firm Hunton &

Williams LLP. There he specializes | in gener-
al commercial litigation.

Pierce-Gardner did not “lave any doubts
that [Foxx] will succeed in the primary as he
has a lot of momentum, experience, and
energy.”

Pierce-Gardner believes the Young
Democrats can offer valuable assistance to
the Foxx campaign.

“We are able to bring to this campaign the
perspective and energy that only young pas-
sionate college students can provide,” he
said.

The Young Democrats are excited to work
with Anthony Foxx in the upcoming weeks.

“I personally feel that he is a great man
and a perfect candidate for the position, and
I will be supporting him as an individual,”
Pierce-Gardner said.

But most of all, Pierce-Gardner appreci-
ates the opportunities this campaign holds
for members of the Young Democrats.

“Our objective is to provide opportunities
for involvement by our members in demo-
cratic political campaigns and_ thereby
expose them to the daily operations and
minutia of an election campaign,” Pierce-
Gardner said. “This is an excellent exercise
for any future pursuit in politics.”

Mas y photo

Foxx ’93 will run for Charlotte city coun-
cil in November.

Concer t, from page 1

results were not strong.

“Around the same time, the hurricane was
occurring,” Doyle said. “A lot of people had
the idea to do a benefit concert. Our agent
brought to our attention that there were a lot
of musicians in New Orleans who didn’t
have homes and had to go on the road. My
advisor Lee Ann Bannerman and I got
together and put together the ideas of a ben-
efit concert and a Baker show and a light
bulb went off that this was what we had to
do.”

Although the Union Board had only two
weeks to prepare, Doyle reported no prob-
lems with the show.

“We had to do a lot of publicity in a short
period of time,” Doyle said. “I got a crash
course in publicity. Other than being rushed,
everything went smoothly. Everyone who
participated was very relaxed yet very enthu-
siastic.”

Students who attended the concert were
very enthusiastic about the performance.

“The fact that all the proceeds and dona-
tions went to aid Katrina victims made it
even better and made me feel less guilty
about going to a concert on Monday night,”
Nafisa Isa ’08 said. “Although I understand
that the timing was inconvenient and I defi-
nitely didn’t sleep last night to get my work
done, I just wish that more students had been
there to at least support a great cause.”

Peninsula China Bistro
704-987-2299

20% OFF

(Take Out & Dine In Only)
Not to be combined with other coupon

jo &

Seg ne

Contemporary, Friendly Atmosphere —_
— haces ea

19906 N Gave Rd Comelius
Crossland Centre at Jetton Village

ot Oe ee Ge ee Ge Se ee Gee ee oe oe eee coe oe ee
PUG EET EY AOE MELINI OTE SAT EM GGL

‘Fine Wines : Full Bar. -

Se TT ra

ig) 5m Anniverary Special Coupon

, “Each Entree a
') Masterpiece...”
Heidi Edidin
“The Wandering
Gourmet”
LUNCH HOURS

Mon-Thurs 11:30-3:00
Fri & Sat 11:30-3:00 Sun 12:00-3:00 |

DINNER HOUR
Mon-Thurs 5:00-10:01
Fri & Sat 5:00-11:00 @ Sun 5:00-10:00

David Rozelle ’95 was the first amputee to return to duty during the war on raq.

Decorated veteran alum
to share Iraq experiences

By SARAH BALEY

Staff Writer

Decorated war veteran Captain David
Rozelle °95 will address the Davidson
College community in Duke Family
Performance Hall on Saturday. Rozelle lost
his foot during a vehicle explosion in Iraq
and has since written a book entitled “Back
in Action” about his experience.

“I’m delighted that he’s coming back,
because he’s a graduate of Davidson, and
we’re proud not only of what he did, his
heroism, but also how he very articulately
describes what he’s been through,” President
Bobby Vagt said. “His was not a particularly
easy course. He had a series of life chal-
lenges and met them. We’re glad to have him
come back as an example of what a
Davidson person can do.”

Rozelle, an English major, played football
and rugby for Davidson, was the Sigma
Alpha Epsilon fraternity house president and
was involved in ROTC:

Following his graduation in May 1995,
Rozelle joined the army and served as a tank
platoon leader, mortar platoon leader and
executive officer as part of the Army
Advanced Warfighter Experiment. In 1999,
he was a part of Operation Desert Spring in
Kuwait and was deployed to Iraq, in April
2003, as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom

In June 2003, Rozelle was leading a con-
voy in Hit, Iraq, when his vehicle exploded,
causing him to loose his right foot.

After only eight months of recovery in the
United States, Rozelle was able to engage in
the same activities as he had before his acci-
dent, including participating in a triathlon
that involved a four-mile run, 11-mile bike
ride and 500-meter swim.

“The most powerful part of this guy’s
story, from my standpoint, is that he was one
of those guys who was confident, very ath-
letic, handsome ... and he was [only] 30
years old when he lost his foot. He came to
the U.S. and was very dependent on

painkillers, drinking all of the time. One day |

he looked at his child and said, ‘I’m not
going to let him see me like this,’ Alumni
Director Matt Merrell said.

In April 2004, one year after his first

‘deployment to Iraq, Rozelle became the first

amputee in recent history to return to the bat-
tlefield. This time around, in addition to sup-
porting the Regimental Headquarters Troop
Battalion of 3rd Armored Cavalry Regiment
of Fort Carson, Colorado, Rozelle was in
charge of base security.

His second stint in Iraq enabled him to test

out the prosthetic foot that he had helped to

design, which allows the user to walk in
sand, and also served as the inspiration for

his book. Rozelle is currently working in the

“A

amputation division of Walter Reed Army
Medical Center in Washington, D.C.

Although he can draw on his own experi-
ence to help amputees, Rozelle has discov-
ered that everybody reacts differently to los-
ing a limb.

Merrell remembered a conversation with
Rozelle in which Rozelle said, “I learned
really quickly that for some guys you could
yell and tell them to go exercise, but for
other guys you need to get on your knees and
pray with them.”

Merrell and Rozelle have kept in contact
over the years because in 2003, as the U.S.
went to war, Merrell asked all of the alumni
in the military to keep in touch with the
College and Rozelle responded.

“We're proud not only of what he
did ... but also how he very articu-
lately describes what he’s been
through. His was not a particular-
ly easy course ... We're glad to have
him come back as an example of
what a Davidson person can do.”
--President Bobby Vagt

In the spring of 2003, the Alumni Office
worked with the Student Government
Association (SGA) to send care packages
including soap, toothbrushes and magazines

‘ to the Davidson alums serving in Iraq.

Rozelle was particularly flattered by the
packages and contacted the College in order
to say thank you.

Many students are excited about Rozelle’s
upcoming visit to the college.

“It’s so easy to get caught up in criticisms
and arguments for the Iraq war while losing
sight of the human faces. Captain Rozelle
and many like him have made real sacrifices
on the battlefield for this country, and I want
to hear what he has to say,” Adam Martin
06 said.

“This person is the best idea [in months]
for a guest speaker coming to Davidson,”
Ersag Keskin ’08 said.

Rozelle’s appearance follows the pattern
established by the Alumni Office of having
two alums speak to students each year.
Although student attendance at these events
has generally been low, Merrell hopes that
Rozelle’s unique life story and war experi-
ence will generate interest.

“Tf future speakers are as interesting as this
one promises to be, I definitely want to hear
them. I think that it’s a good idea for current
students to be exposed to the accomplish-
ments of past ones. It gives us at least a
vague notion of the possibilities that are’
open to us,” Kara Earle ’09 said.
