»

THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 7, 2005

Not-so-Intelligent A look back at the semester that was

Occasionally in the news, there
are references to Intelligent
Design, a theory competing with
creationism and evolution for

eo
Design
dominance in classrooms across

the United States. According to

-. Dictionary.com, which cites
‘Webster’s New Millennium

Dictionary, Intelligent Design is
_ “a theory that nature and complex
s biological structures = were
designed by intelligent beings and
were not created by chance.”

In other words, Darwin was
wrong.

Now I will admit that evolution may not be right, that it
may not be the final answer or our ultimate understanding of
how life exists and changes on Earth. Scientific theories have
been wrong before, and if evolution were correct, it would
certainly buck the larger historical trend.

Religion is valuable. Its value,
however, is nonexistent in the
, Classroom or laboratory.

Whether or not evolution is correct, however, (and for the
record, I believe it is) is not important. What is important is
that Intelligent Design, a theory that rejects evolution and
advocates that life was and is “designed,” has, according to
the National Academy of Sciences, no foundation in fact.
CNN.com noted earlier this year, “critics say intelligent
design is merely creationism.” If that is true, it is indeed
unfortunate.

If Intelligent Design is accepted and instituted, it will be a
step backward for science. It took centuries for science and
scientists to escape the bounds of religious ignorance. Only
with the coming of the Renaissance, with a weaker Catholic
Church, was science able to progress. We owe the comfort-
able lives we have today to this progress. We have cars, com-
puters, dependable medicine, and space ships; all thanks to
science freed from religion.

Religion can be a wonderful thing. It has the. power to
inspire, to hearten, to nurture, to give courage to and to pro-
mote understanding, fairness, benevolence and kindness. For
all of these reasons, religion is valuable. Its value, however,
is nonexistent in the classroom or laboratory. It has no role,
whatsoever, in science.

Let us $0 back to the dictionary. According to
Dictionary.com, this time citing the American Heritage
Dictionary of the English Language, one definition of sci-
ence is “The observation, identification, description, experi-
mental investigation, and theoretical explanation of phenom-
ena.” The suggestion that some “intelligence” designed life
is not theoretical. It is historical, and it is biblical.

'/
Marr Haw

We have to be ready to defend
science from those who would
replace it with unexplainable

notions of a grand intelligence.

Is this debate important? Is this column about something
that affects the average person? People in Kansas or
Pennsylvania would certainly say so. In November of this
year, the Kansas board of Education instituted new standards
that are critical of evolution.

Also, the citizens of Dover, Pennsylvania voted out a
school board that required ninth graders to hear a statement
about Intelligent Design.

Earlier I mentioned that if evolution were correct it would
buck a larger trend. This is true, but hasn’t the world bucked
a great many recently? Our scientific achievements, our
social achievements, our political achievements have all
been bucking the trend.

Sooner or later, we Davidson students will be graduating.
Once we are out there working, marrying, having children,
things like Intelligent Design will be important. The debate
will directly affect us.

We have to be ready to defend science from those who
would replace it with unexplainable notions of a grand guid-
ing intelligence. Let religion remain in church and science
remain in classrooms. The road was long enough and hard
enough to get this far.

Matt Hall is a senior history major from Bennington, Vt.
Contact him at mthall@davidson.edu. 27)

- What an eventful little semester
we’ve had this term. In fact, this
semester was so amazing that it
made people forget about last
year’s: controversy over the
trustees and Davidson being a
Christian school. Which is proba-
bly a good thing, since the guy
who said sell everything you have
and give to the poor probably
wouldn’t be happy that tuition is
more than the median household
income of North Carolina. So let
us look back, VH1 style, on the
semester that was.

First off, U.S. News Rankings! Despite wads of cash used
to make substantive changes to the college, like naming ever
more stuff after alumni and cyborg paper towel dispensers,
Davidson fell from seventh to 10th in the rankings.
Davidson College does not celebrate when we go up in the
rankings, according to Mr.

pring Ipta

ry

JAMES WELLS

to solve the body image problem on campus and get people
to recognize women as more than ‘hos’ by banning the Yowl.
Libertas had some strong words in favor of the Yowl, and no
one cared.

Then Dr. Bernd chimed in with what could be the greatest
letter to The Davidsonian ever, asking the immortal ques-
tion, why do Davidson women passively and actively
encourage their own objectification? Turner and Warner
responded with party fliers asking ““Want some booty?” and
implying fellatio, respectively.

Somewhere Catherine MacKinnon is crying like that
Native American in the anti-littering commercial. On the
Court life goes on, “one still loves one’s neighbor and rubs
against him [or her]; for one needs warmth.”

Speaking of the Court, we’re getting a new historically
black sorority. I’m in favor of it mainly because I don’t want
to be labeled a racist. And hey, a totally segregated Court
with more minorities on paper is way better than actually
having integrated houses, or so I hear. Sadly, people are
going to take that as a criticism of Alpha Phi, which I actu-

Robert F. Vagt, so -we’re not
going to dwell on this fall. Nice
try, but in 2003 there were no
less than three press releases on
the website making sure every-
one knew we were seventh in
the nation. Plus, to the best of
my recollection, it was men-
tioned about 420 times during
orientation.

Isn’t Davidson’s obsession
with the rankings and reassur-

Maybe all those career services
emails that go directly to my junk
mail folder would convince me
otherwise, but I thought a liberal
arts education was an end unto
itself and not a stepping stone to
grad school.

ally admire quite a bit.

The other big controversy
was the enforcement of the 1
a.m. closing times on build-
ings. Davidson is a business
first and has to save the $500
million (or whatever this
week’s figure is) that it costs to
keep the buildings open. Plus,
as bad as our tour guides are
about the sciences (did you all
take Chemistry of Art and
Artifacts?), we’re not going to

ing students and parents that
graduate institutions not only recognize Davidson, but give
applicants from here an eleventy-million point GPA boost, a
poke in the eye to the idea of a liberal arts education?

Maybe all those career services emails that. go directly to
my junk mail folder would convince me otherwise, but I
thought a liberal arts education was an end unto itself and
not a stepping stone to grad school. I’m pretty sure you can
get one of those a lot cheaper elsewhere.

Katrina: I signed a banner, [ donated money, I’m sure you
did too. Sudanese people died, forgotten by us all. I’m a cyn-
ical bastard. According to Barbara Ehrenreich, the North
Carolina Justice and Economic Development Center reports
that twice as many families in North Carolina with children
don’t make enough to meet their basic needs than the nation-
al average. So yes, Davidson came together and made a
great effort to help victims of Katrina, but could we do it
with a little less smug self-satisfaction next time?

The Yowl: This was my favorite controversy ever. I can’t
even remember what the Yow said, but boy did it make peo-
ple mad. As I recall, the Davidson Women’s Committee tried

have any science majors soon
anyway.

President Vagt once again provides the voice of reason on
this issue. It’d be unfair to the non-science majors if science
majors got access to their labs after 1 a.m., he claimed. I
think what he meant to say was that it’s unfair for the foot-
ball team to get all that extra funding and we’re cutting the
program at the end of the year, right?

And to cap it all off, there was the Warner Halloween
party’s first annual knife fight (I’ ve heard next year’s edition
will benefit Ada Jenkin). That was a huge deal for about two
days until everyone realized that it was stupid. Didn’t every-
one go to high school? That’s what happens: fights start,
someone pulls a weapon, everyone scatters, and a good time
is had by all.

And a good time was had by all this semester. It will be
fondly remembered by all on campus, at least until the cur-
rent freshmen graduate.

James Wells is a junior physics major from Montgomery
Village, Md. Contact him at jawells@ davidson.edu.

Davidson must become more assertive

Davidson’s high academic
rankings were important in my
decision to consider the college.
Once I made the decision to
attend, however, I quickly found
that few people know anything
about this school.
—~At no point was this more evi-
dent than when I traveled to Duke
to watch the men’s basketball
team. My friends and I were
asked on countless occasions
where Davidson was located. It is
understandable for Texans to be
unfamiliar with the college, but it seems preposterous that
North Carolinians would have no idea their state was home
to the top liberal arts school in the South.

Part of what I perceive to be Davidson’s lacking reputa-
tion results from a small student body and consequently
small alumni base. But I also think Davidson is not assertive
enough.

The men’s basketball team is a perfect example of this
issue. One of my friends pulled some strings to get us seats
five rows behind the Duke bench at Cameron Indoor Arena.
We donned our Davidson apparel and painted our faces red
and black. Unfortunately, about five minutes before the
game started, a Duke official approached us to verify we
were in the correct seats, and when she discovered that we
were, informed us that “policy” prohibited opposing fans
from sitting in those seats.

I guess that the self-proclaimed “best fans in the country”
could not handle any competition.

We were moved to seats on the other side of the arena,
with the rest of the Davidson fans. I assume Duke wanted to

the tao of scott

maintain home court advantage. This would be acceptable if
we had the opportunity to play Duke on our home coutt.;
however, the Blue Devils refuse to visit Belk Arena, opting
to play “road games” against us in Charlotte.

I assume we are supposed to feel privileged to play a high-
ly-ranked team like Duke, but instead, I feel bullied.

College basketball is a far more egalitarian sport than foot-
ball, with 65 teams, large and small, each getting an oppor-
tunity to play in a tournament to determine the national
champion. But apparently schools like Duke and North
Carolina sit atop a pedestal in the college basketball world.

Our basketball team is Division I, with legitimate NCAA
tournament hopes, just like Duke. Big programs like
Massachusetts, St. Joseph’s, and Missouri respect us enough
to visit. But our neighbors in Durham and Chapel Hill do not
share that sentiment.

Some may be wondering what bearing college basketball
has on raising Davidson’s profile, both regionally and
nationally. Success in athletics has an undeniable bearing on

e increased prominence. Gonzaga University, a perennial
“Cinderella” team in the NCAA tournament, has experi-
enced a 72 percent increase in its applications since its men’s
basketball team began making title runs in the last few years.
Duke has received similar benefits since the arrival of Coach
Mike Krzyzewski.

The task of improving Davidson’s name recognition lies
with accepting that we can compete with schools like Duke,
North Carolina, and Wake Forest both academically and ath-
letically. The first step is to stop getting pushed around, and
to refuse to schedule games with schools that think they are
above playing here.

Scott Saldafia is a freshman from Dallas, Tx. Contact him
at scsaldana@ davidson.edu.
