4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

‘Green’ chairs return to Chambers lawn

By EmILy KoTa
Senior Staff Writer

The Davidson campus will have addition-
al outdoor seating and student expression
this spring due to the renewed efforts of Mac
Cowell ’06 and his Adirondack chair proj-
ect.

According to Cowell’s plan, students and
faculty of academic departments will pur-
chase chairs, and then paint them in a man-
ner representing their respective discipline.
Cowell also extended the project to include
student organizations after they showed
interest.

Cowell’s project is strongly supported by
President Bobby Vagt. Steven Gentile ’06
has been working with Cowell on the project
and said Vagt is “very much into student
expression.”

Vagt continues to be “impressed by the
creativity of the students at Davidson, and
this project is no exception ... the idea of
painting them in departmentally sponsored
‘themes’ is brilliant.”

Several chairs have already made their
unadorned debut on campus; Vagt purchased
two, the physical plant purchased one, and
through spontaneous - fundraising, the
Davidson Village Inn purchased one chair.
These chairs are currently on the lawn in
front of Cannon Residence Hall.

“They are comfortable and situated in the
perfect location. I hope that they put more of
the chairs on campus,” Ashley Raba ’07
said.

Cowell plans to give these four chairs that
still need to be decorated to the student
groups and academic departments that show
the most enthusiasm for the project.

Cowell hopes to use “the four on campus
as a means to hook the rest of campus on the
idea.”

The plan originated as a way for Cowell to
serve the community, but he “also just want-
ed to sit outside in a lawn chair.”

He feels it is a shame that students do not
spend more time outside and believes that
the chairs will add a lot of atmosphere to the
campus.

“The presence of these chairs makes the
campus very inviting,” Vagt said.

This is not Cowell’s first attempt to
improve the campus through outdoor seat-
ing.

While visiting colleges as a prospective
student, Cowell saw Adirondack chairs on
other campuses. Once he arrived at
Davidson in the fall of 2002, he “thought
that it would be cool if we could do that
here.”

Because Cowell was working on the proj-
ect independent of any organizational asso-
ciation, he avoided having to deal with any
bureaucratic issues with his proposal.

On the other hand, he was not able to
receive grants for funding; most grants can
only be given to established organizations,
not individuals.

Raising funds to purchase the expensive
chairs proved the most challenging obstacle
to Cowell’s plan.

He began by going around the freshman
dorms with a Cool-Whip container asking
students for donations. Surprisingly, he
raised around three to four hundred dollars.

Unfortunately, the chairs cost about $300
each.

Cowell decided purchase plastic versions
of the Adirondack chairs to “‘act as a launch-

a
“OK
ars

-If you are planning to do research/work

on campus, OR
-If you are going to be employed in the area, OR
-If you are attending classes at UNCC...

Davidson can provide housing for the entire summer
or ona weekly basis in the Martin Court
apartments at very competitive rates.

Rent includes utilities, cable, and internet hookups,
kitchen facilities, and a private bedroom.
Phone service includes one common line
for all four residents.

Cost for the full summer (12 weeks) is $972,
weekly $86, and daily $15.75.

Applications will be available in RLO, Room 07,
in Belk Basement beginning March Ist.
They will be accepted until April 15th,
ona first-come, first-serve basis. You must submit
(1) A completed application, along with (2) A $100
refundable damage deposit, and (3) A letter/email
from your professor/supervisor/employer
stating your beginning and ending dates
of employment and nature of your work for
your application to be complete.

Roomate preferences are accepted but not guaranteed.

Questions may be directed to Judy Klein at x2341
. or juklein@davidson.edu

ing pad and to give the campus a taste of
what the idea was.” He hoped that the plas-
tic chairs would serve to convince the
administration to provide money to purchase
wooden chairs.

He had enough money to purchase 17
chairs and an anonymous donor paid for his

" order to be doubled to 34 chairs.

In the spring of 2003, Cowell and friend
Bo Rainbow ’06 picked up the chairs from
the physical plant and distributed them
around campus from the back of a pickup
truck.

Regrettably, students did not always use
the chairs for their intended purpose. Some
students took the chairs, using them in their
own dorm rooms.

Cowell kept track of the chairs and
noticed that two or three were broken or lost
each weekend. “The closer they were to the
court, the more often they got broken,” he
said.

Cowell “lost a lot of faith in the Honor
Code and the idea that it’s wholly accepted

_by the student body.”

This year, Cowell and Gentile brain-
stormed, trying to find a way to get the com-
munity involved and personally invested in
the project. The current plan addresses three
issues.

First, by connecting chairs to departments
and student groups, people have greater
interest in maintaining the chairs. At any
college, student turnover is high and involv-
ing professors increases the influence of
long-term members of the community on the
project.

Second, chairs will be sponsored, and paid
for, by the department or student organiza-
tion.

Distributing the cost of the chairs among
various groups makes the project economi-
cally feasible.

Third, painting chairs will increase stu-
dent expression on campus, an unrelated
concern of Cowell and Gentile.

Join America’s #1 Student Tour Operator

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 23, 2005

Watson, continued from page I

other Davidson seniors.

After being nominated by the College,
Nelson submitted his proposal as an applica-
tion to the program.

He has receivedjhelp from a wide range of
sources in developing his project.

“Everyone from fiddlers in Scotland to
professors here in the U.S. have been will-
ing to help with my project,” Nelson said.
“Tt’s really been amazing.”

Nelson is planning to live with a Swedish
musician for much of his time in westerm
Africa. .

The Watson Fellowship encourages inde-
pendent travel and prohibits students from
returning to the United States for the entire
year. 7

“Everyone from fiddlers in

Scotland to professors here in the

U.S. have been willing to help

with my project. It’s been really
amazing.”

--Ben Nelson,

2005 Watson Fellow

“I know that there are drawbacks such as
not seeing my family, but I know I’m doing
the right thing,” Nelson said. “A lot of my
connections with my family are through
music, and I know I'll be able to bring back
a lot from my time abroad.”

Nelson feels that competency in a coun-
try’s principal language is important for the
full experience.

“Being able to communicate in the lan-
guage that people are most comfortable with
gives you insights that you don’t get from
speaking in a second language,” Nelson
said. ; ;

Despite his proficiency in Malagasy,
Nelson will be exposed to many foreign lan-
guages throughout his project.

Nelson is competent in French. He also
learned how to speak Malagasy during his
time in Madagascar.

During his trip to Ireland, Nelson will stay
in the county that has the largest Irish-speak-
ing population among the entire British
Isles.

“I wanted something that would both
challenge and make me grow,” Nelson said.

The Watson is offered to qualified seniors
from nearly 50 undergraduate institutions
nationwide.

Each participating school is allowed to
submit up to four finalists for review at the
national level by the Fellowship Program
Board; there is no guarantee, however, that
any of those candidates will be selected fpr
the award.

50 students are selected as Fellows by the
Board.

Davidson has had a Watson Fellow every
year since joining the program in 1969.

GRE GMAT LSAT MCAT
DAT OAT PCAT TOEFL

Receive a $100 rebate when you enroll in a
Kaplan course between March 1 and March 31.

Limited time offer!

Call or visit us online for more information or to enroll.

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/rebate

