THE DAVIDSONIAN

HUMOR

A Professor's Guide: The secret to getting A's at Davidson

We recently sat down with Professor
Edward Braun of the Psychology depart-
ment. Dr. Braun is known among the stu-
dent body as one of the toughest graders on
the Davidson campus, keeping in tradition
with Davidson’s reputation of high academ-
ic standards. Dr. Braun agreed to let us in
on a few of his secrets, and for once, the gen-
eral trend of Davidson professors who are
cold, impersonal, and shun meeting outside
of the classroom.

Yowl: Thanks for meeting us for this inter-
view on such short notice,

Dr. Braun: No problem, I simply can-
celled my office hours today, only two of my
classes have papers due tomorrow.

Yowl: So have most of those students
already met with you about their papers, if
they needed help?

Dr. Braun: Oh, of course not. Like most
Davidson professors, I only allow students
to stop by and discuss academic work the
day before it is due.

Yowl: I suppose that makes sense, that way
the papers come out poorly and you can give
lower grades.

Dr. Braun: Yes, well I feel that it is the
charge of Davidson professors to make it as
difficult as possible for the students to earn
an A. In fact, some of the other professors
and IL have a pool going. Give out the least
A’s and you win a pizza. I love pizza.
Yowl: Could you give us some examples of

Dr. Edward Braun of the Psychology Dept.

how you make your classes intentionally dif-
ficult?

Dr. Braun: One strategy I really enjoy is to
change the tone of my lecture as I tell an
anecdote or some other piece of information
that seems slightly off topic. This leads stu-
dents into a false sense of security, thinking
that this analogy or story won’t be on the
test, and most of the students will stop tak-
ing notes. Then I ask about it as an essay
question on the next test.

Yowl: Would you ever ask about the plot of
a movie you watched in class or jokes that
you tell at the beginning of the class?

Dr. Braun: [laughter] Of course. Basically
if you don’t copy down every word I say in
class in your notes, it’s impossible to get an

A in one of my classes. The same is true for
pretty much every other class at Davidson,
as well.

Yowl: How does the Honor Code factor
into grading in your classroom?

Dr. Braun: It is a common misconception
that the Honor Code is in place for the ben-
efit of the students. In fact, it is there to
make it easier for professors to give lower
grades. A telling example of this happened
back in 1983 when the Honor Council went
on strike. Students were plagiarizing papers
and looking in textbooks on take-home tests
and there was nothing we could do as pro-
fessors to stop them. Luckily we settled the
strike by promising each member of the
Honor Council a 4.0 for the semester if they
returned to duty.

Yowl: Is there anything else you might rec-
ommend to a student wishing to receive an
A in one of your courses?

Dr. Braun: The final mark for the course

.is directly proportional to the amount of

times a student has spoken in class. So I’d
recommend that a student raise his hand
and comment on things as much as possible,
especially if it has no bearing on the current
discussion or is very obvious.

Yowl: Thank you very much for spending
some of your valuable time with us this
afternoon.

Dr. Braun: Oh, it was no problem, I’m just
now going to go make up some grades for
papers and take a nap.

Cannon top bidder in Belk, Smith eBay naming auction

Last spring, the Davidson College admin-
istration accepted the resignations of John
Belk and Stephen Smith from the Board of
Trustees. Belk and Smith, both prominent

_4lumni and donors whose
names appear on _ various
buildings and athletic facili-
ties, stepped down following
the trustees’ decision to allow
non-Christians on the board. :
Their positions were filled by
Aaron Goldstein ’76, a Jewish
man, and Hag Andrews ’84, a
witch.

The  board’s’ Christian
requirement had been a sub-
ject of controversy at Davidson
for the past few years.

Many felt the college had to
eliminate the prerequisite in
order to keep pace with the
nation’s elite academic institu-
tions. This was not the small
Southern school’s first divisive
change; Davidson lost trustees
when it decided to offer admis-

Christian board was one of the reasons he
believed that the school was so special, “It’s
about knowing that the people who guide
Davidson are guided by the virtues of

Chris Cannon ’39 at an alumni dinner last spring in Vail Commons

Jenkins said that the board came to this
decision because Davidson is “short on
green,” and then rubbed his thumb against

his fingers in a ‘money’ gesture.

Up for auction is Belk dormito-
ry, the Belk Arena, the Stephen
Smith football field, and Knox
dormitory. The Knox dormitory
was recently placed on auction
after the family failed to pay any
heating bills in the spring semes-
ter, for the third straight year.

With three days left in all the
auctions, the current high bidder
for every building is eBay user-
name “cannon4life,” at a total of
$5.4 million. The high bidder is
Davidson graduate Chris Cannon
°39, whose family name is already
on one dormitory.

This auction is actually a sec-
ond try to sell the naming rights to
the buildings after the initial auc-
tion, won by a combined bid of
Laurence Dana and Ronald
Watson, failed to meet the reserve

sion to minorities and women,
and when it dropped the
requirement for the school
president to be a registered
member of the Whig party.
Severing ties with Belk was
an incalculable loss for the college; he was
one of Davidson’s most well-known alumni
and its largest individual donor. Belk’s name
is recognizable from the freshmen dormito-
ry, the prestigious scholarship, the basket-
ball arena, and other campus landmarks.
Davidson graduate and trustee, Rev.
William Wood ’67 attempted to quantify
Belk’s importance. “It’s like Duke University
losing James B. Duke, or McDonald’s losing
the Hamburglar,” he said. “It’s that big.”
How could Davidson lose its biggest sup-
porter over this issue? Belk says an all-

“It's time for the Cannons to get
some love. We're taking over.”

Christianity. Virtues such as modesty and
humility.”

Belk said he will redirect the funds that
went to the college to the construction of a
pure golden castle that “will rival any of
God’s palaces.”

The ripples of Belk’s resignation are still
being felt. This fall, Davidson has decided to
rename all facilities dedicated for the two
men. :

Trustee Jeremy Jenkins ’73 said all build-
ings, athletic fields, and arenas naming
rights were being placed on auction on eBay.

price of $5 million.

Cannon, one of the few sup-
porters of desegregation in the
1950s, has been investing more
money into the Davidson campus
as of late.

Prior to his bids on the Belk cache,
Cannon donated his money and name to a
new academic scholarship, a ping-pong
table in the Union, and an order of pens for
the Admissions office.

He has attributed his recent generosity to
a personal feud with John Belk and the
recent good performance of his platinum
stocks in the market.

Regarding his bidding on every available
facility, the Davidson graduate said, “It’s
time for the Cannons to get some love. We’re
taking over.”

If all the bugs fought
in a battle, which
would win?

¢

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 14, 2005 9

How would you grade the parties on
First and Second Night Down?
Freshmen and upperclassmen respond
to the Yowl’s exclusive poll.

Jessica Madden ’08
Des Moines, IA
“I spent the whole time trying to avoid
my creepy new little brother.”

Jim Miller ’o9

Columbus, OH
“The [Der stamped me so much I could
barely breathe. She was cool, though.”

Jenna Oblanski ’08
Chicago, IL
“I couldn’t drink on First Night Down
because of our upcoming soccer game.”

Officer Tom O’Sullivan
“The PiKA party was slamming. I got
to arrest three dudes!”

The Skunk
“The KA party stunk, it was great!”
