THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 27, 2005

Staff Editorial

Ethical standards for the future

Ethics are neither about right or wrong answers, nor good
or bad results. They are the rubric that applies to approach-
ing thorny situations; they are guidelines in pursuit of “doing
the right thing,” and not the outcomes themselves.

With this in mind, the Code of Ethics cannot presume to
anticipate every ethical or moral dilemma that may arise for
student editors and writers of The Davidsonian. This code
represents instead only guideposts on the trail to responsible,
ethical decision making in college journalism.

Using the combined knowledge gained from our own past
experiences on The Davidsonian and thorough readings of
journalism texts and case studies in Professor Chuck
Hauser’s “Journalism Ethics” class, we have delineated how
each of these principles applies to our work on “The South’s
Foremost College Weekly.” We have taken this product to
campus ethics experts, graduated student editors, deans, the
president, faculty leaders in various fields, and professors
who have brought criticisms and complaints to The
Davidsonian in the past. We solicited their feedback and gave
all suggestions thoughtful review, whether grammatical or
material, incorporating many into the final product.

The result is meant to codify the kind of decision-making
we hope we have been following, and to leave as a rough
manual for conduct to our successors when all current editors
have left this community, degree in hand.

Our Code of Ethics represents a legacy of the wisdom that

our preceding editors passed on to us, and it represents the
legacy of the steep learning curve we have ascended and are
still ascending. It is also the legacy of Professor Hauser,
whose short tenure at Davidson will leave a lasting impact on
the ethical quality of student journalism on this campus.

We publish our new official standards in the hope that you
will help us live up to them. ,

This issue marks the last of the semester. This paper would.

not be possible without the invaluable contribution of so
many. We would like to thank all of our editors, writers, pho-
tographers, and guest contributors for their hard work this
Semester.

We would also like to recognize the dedication of editors
Liz Barry, Wilson McCrory, Drew Brookie, Elizabeth
Burkhead, and Brendan Parets, who will not be returning to
our staff in the fall. We wish them the best of luck. And thanks
to our predecessor, David Crow, for his tireless work.

We hope all of our readers have a great summer. Seniors,
good luck!

- Brandon & Amee

PERSPECTIVES

13

PREAMBLE

as a credible publication.

SEEK TRUTH AND REPORT IT

Ensure the accuracy of your information.

Investigate all sides of a story, remembering that your job as a
journalist is to provide fair, accurate, and responsible coverage of
the story.

Never alter quotations. Paraphrase with attribution if you are
not certain of the accuracy of a particular quotation.

Never plagiarize. Representing another’s work as your own is

_inexcusable.

Always question the newsworthiness of a story, taking partic-
ular note of the impact individual biases can have. If you have
any concerns, consult your editor(s).

Recognize the differences between advocacy and reporting.
All analysis and commentary pieces must be clearly labeled as
such or moved from the news section.

Try repeatedly to contact unresponsive sources and offer them
a chance to present their information or depiction of events.

When interviewing sources, use the most open communication
possible. Face-to-face meetings are the preferred method. Phone
interviews are preferred to email when practicable. Unless an
interview is face-to-face, the article must indicate the means of
communication between a reporter and a source.

Make your position as a journalist clear prior to conducting an
interview.

Recognize the difference between information obtained “on
the record” and “‘off the record.” Clarify the terms on which
information is being given by a source.

Never promise anonymity to a source before discovering
his/her motivations. Make clear at the beginning of an interview
that top editors will be made aware of his/her identity, regardless
of anonymity.

Anonymous sources may be used only 1) when requested by
the source and 2) when an editor feels a genuine threat of reper-
cussion exists against the source if they are linked in print to a
quotation or position. Examples of repercussions include but are
not limited to criminal or Code of Responsibility charges against
a student breaking the law or professors having their tenure jeop-
ardized. The highest level of disclosure possible (first name only,
“an English professor,” etc.) without identifying the source
should be made. Editors and writers remain bound to report first-
hand knowledge of Honor Code violations to’ the Dean of
Students.

Remember that accountability for each and every anonymous
quotation and its content falls not on the source, but on The
Davidsonian and its credibility.

Credit all contributing writers of a story — whether they have

contacted sources for comment or reviewed archived materials

~ THE DAVIDSONIAN CODE OF ETHICS

As a major source of information on campus, The Davidsonian provides a valuable service to the Davidson College commu-
nity. With this role comes significant responsibilities. Reporters, editors, and all others involved in The Davidsonian must main-
tain a high set of ethical standards, guided by clear values. The following establishes a foundation for ethical decision-making
based on the four cardinal principles of the Society of Professional Journalists: to seek truth and report it, minimize harm, act
independently, and be accountable. It is only with a defined set of principles that The Davidsonian can maintain its reputation

for the article’s background — in print. This is not just a matter
of fairness to their hard work, but a means of ensuring accounta-
bility.

Never tamper with or alter photos.

Seek diversity of all kinds within the paper’s staff. This will
ensure richer breadth and depth of coverage.

Remember that the values expressed in the Honor Code
always apply to our work with The Davidsonian.

MINIMIZE HARM

Show good taste. The newspaper is the result of a series of
judgments. Our determination of certain stories as “newsworthy”
and our presentation of the information affect our reputation.

Recognize the implications a story can have on sources, the
College, readers, and the reputation of The Davidsonian. Editors
must realize that unethical practices today can affect the newspa-
per’s ability to report tomorrow. Writers should report all con-
cerns about the impact of a story to their editor(s).

Confirm quotations and information that may seem factually
inaccurate with a credible source.

Be cautious of stereotyping. Use information on a person's
gender, race, ethnicity, religious background, or sexual orienta-
tion only when that information is pertinent to the story. Strive
for diversity in sources.

ACT INDEPENDENTLY

Avoid putting yourself in a situation of real or perceived con-
flict of interest. This code can neither fully outline nor draw a
line for when a conflict of interest exists. Together with your edi-
tor(s), decide on a course of action.

Discuss any potential conflicts of interest with your editor(s).

Refrain from reporting on organizations, events, and individu-
als you are associated with and feel you may have some bias
toward.

Maintain open communication with your editor(s) about any
ethical issues that may arise.

BE ACCOUNTABLE

Encourage public discourse about journalistic conduct.

Acknowledge mistakes and run expedient corrections.

Keep open lines of communication with readership.

Take prompt disciplinary action, including suspension or ter-
mination, for unethical behavior.

Always recognize the importance of maintaining the credibil-
ity and reputation of The Davidsonian. The newspaper is a trust
to be bestowed to future generations of Davidson editors, writers,
and students.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LUIBIORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Brandon Carroll & Amee Patel
Managing Editor
Mike Giglio
News Editors
Liz Barry, Jackie McKeon & Ruchi Turakhia
Perspectives Editor
Matt Bandyk
Arts & Living Editors
Elizabeth Burkhead & Sara Sams
Yowl Editor
Brendan Parets
Sports Editors
Drew Brookie & Wilson McCrory
Photography Editor
Dorsett Clark
Business Manager
; »..Nick Horton
Advertising & Circulation Managers
Page Persons & Janélle Milanes

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR «+

To ask questions
is a virtue .

Nate Shestak and others are due our
highest praises and commendations.
His accomplishment needs no introduc-
tion. After a week spent as a one-man
PR department, Nate forced us to open
our eyes ‘to the hell of genocide in
Darfur, and. he did so with admirable
humility. Nate impressed no political
agenda upon us. He did not guilt us for
donations or snub our own inaction into
our noses. No, Nate did just what
Davidson is supposed to teach us to do,
ask the right questions. Nate made us
all wonder, “Why is this happening,
and why haven’t we responded?”

What a welcome change! Every
week I find the “Perspectives” section
of the Davidsonian full of articles that
should instead be titled “Arguments.”
One need only read their taglines to
know what’s coming. They have all the
answers and are plagued with unsub-
stantiated claims and naive opinions. I
approve of strong political opinions,
but not when “John Doe, sophomore
political science major” postures him-

self as an expert on American foreign
policy and international affairs. It
seems the only thing Davidson students
fear more than being mistaken is being
quiet. Take the recent vote of the
Trustees as example.

I hold the scholarship that bears Mr.
Belk’s name, and while I will not speak
to my opinion on his resignation from
the board, it is not out of fear of criti-
cism or a sense of obligation to him.
Actually, I have rather mixed feelings,
and I’m really not sure what to think.
However, I am sure that it was a diffi-
cult decision for him, and one not made
rashly. So what happened? Despite how
we might like to interpret it, the contro-
versy was not a simple clashing of
“religious faith” and “secularist atti-
tudes.” Mr. Belk’s disappointment with
the outcome is not unwarranted, and
believing the change to be in line with
Reformed theology is not “utterly illog-
ical.” Those are the wrong answers.

I commend Nate for seeking to ask
the right questions. In the midst of
everyone who has the answers, he has
shown us that the honest question
always demands a thoughtful response.

Joel Hewett ’07

Androgyny
deserves more
credit

After last Wednesday night's per-
formance in the C. Shaw Smith 900
room, I think it’s fair to say that
Androgyny is no longer the “other” a
capella group at Davidson. As anyone
who was there can attest, their perform-
ance was full of energy and infectious
enthusiasm.

Their skits—like when Barratt Park
’06 came to the microphone dressed as
Georgia Ringle and threw condoms
into the crowd or when Roland Foss
’05S ran around the room like a crazed
Fiji during a staged Q&A session—
were funny and their songs, from Al
Green to the Counting Crows, were
tonally lush.

I don’t know where it’s come from,
but Androgyny—clearly now THE a
capella group at Davidson—should be
heartily commended for their embra-
sure of their role as entertainers. Bravo!

Nicholas Carlson 705
