18 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 2005

Ritchie captures first in front of home crowd

By WILL BRYAN
Staff Writer

This past Saturday Davidson hosted the
sixth annual Irwin Belk Invitational track
meet.

Although the intermittent rain showers
forced the fans to find shelter during some
events, the meet was another great success as
fans watched their ’Cats compete against

many other regional schools as well as _

Southern Conference rivals.

In the women’s events, Megal Atias ’08
led the way for Cats as she ran to a first
place finish in the 1500, while setting a
school record with a time of 4:38.28. The
Wildcat women also ran well in 800, as they
took third, fourth and seventh places.

Colleen McKown ’08 took that third place
spot with a time of 2:21.44, while Hilary
Leister *06 and Ashley Griffith ’05 took
fourth and seventh places, respectively. Co-
captian Anna Brew ’05 ran a strong race in
the 3000 and took third place with a time of
10:59.11. The women capped off a long, cold
day with a strong performance in the 1600
relay as they placed second with a time of
4:05.11.

In the men’s events, Davidson won one

event as David Ritchie ’07 turned in a win-
ning time of 55.42 in the 400-meter hurdles.
The ’Cats earned second-place finishes in
the 800 behind the long legs of Douglas
Noreen ’07, and in the 3000 where Jonathan
Baker ’06 ran to a 8:48.87.

“T thought that the team competed well on
Saturday,” said thrower Michael Anselmo
°06. “This meet really functioned as a tune-
up before we go in for conferences.”

The ’Cats have been turning in strong per-
formances in track and field this season.

Despite the lack of press that the team gets_ F

around campus. Much of that is due to the
fact that Davidson cannot compete with the
quantity of athletes that many schools can
produce that allow them to win points at
meets. Also, Davidson only hosts one track
meet a year, making a large fan-base diffi-
cult.

“This meet is always fun,”
“We have some advantages by performing
on the same surfaces that we practice on and
actually having people there cheering for
us.”

The Wildcats hope to continue performing
well this week as they travel to Western
Carolina for the Southern Conference
Outdoor Championships.

Men’s tennis falls in
first round of SoCon

Despite strong doubles play, tennis was unable to win points off of singles.

By BRIAN HELFRICH
Staff Writer

Just over a week after upending
Appalachian State in their final regular sea-
son match, the men’s tennis team lost a
heartbreaker to the Mountaineers in the
opening round of the Southern Conference
tournament last Thursday.

The eighth-seeded Wildcats jumped to the
early lead through stellar doubles play.
Donald Miles ’05 and Russ Burns ’05 paired
up for the final time, victorious 8-3 at first
doubles, while Daniel Bermeo ’06 and John
Bolton ’07 secured the crucial doubles point
for the Wildcats with an 8-4 decision.

Davidson’s strong play continued, as
Burns and Jay Chitty ’07 pulled out victories
at fifth and sixth singles, respectively.

“We started out exactly the way we need-
ed to, taking the doubles point and then two
singles matches to go up 3-0,” Burns

said. “Chitty’s win was huge, beating an

opponent to whom he had lost two weeks
before.”

The ’Cats could not maintain the early 3-0
lead, however, and lost the top four singles
matches to clinch the 4-3 victory for
Appalachian State.

“App. definitely picked up its level of
play in the remaining matches and ended up
winning it,” Burns said. “It’s just the way it
goes. We didn’t really make any big mis-
takes. They just fought harder.”

Davidson, who fell in its last three match-
es, concludes its season with a record of 11-
14.

“We were in every match, but we weren’t
able to pull out a lot of them,” Burns
said. “So the season was painful in one sense
and very positive in another. We thought we
should have won more, but we knew all
along we were: deep and talented. Luckily,
come next year, those losses will be gone but
the team’s confidence and depth should
remain.”

said Anselmo. .

from Baseball, page 20

The teams resumed acfion on Saturday.
Andy Carter ’05 returned to pitch,

despite starting three innings the night —

before. Carter continued to be effective
through the fifth inning, but in the bottom
of the sixth inning the potent Cougar
offense roughed the pitcher and scored
three runs before Hartanov recorded the
final two outs.

With the ’Cats lead down to a single
run, the offense stepped up. Heafner drew
a leadoff walk, then Benefield launched a
two-run homer. .

Charleston mustered only one more run
in the remaining three innings, and the
’Cats continued to add to their lead and
eventual 9-5 win.

Benefield was the unquestioned star of
the game. He went 4-5 from the plate with
six RBI, including his 100th career RBI,
and scored two runs. Hartanov and
Heafner also gave stellar pitching per-
formances to hold the dangerous Cougar

offense to one run over the final 3 2/3°

*Phow by Dorsett C Vark

The track teams drew more home support in their home meet last weekend.

innings.

Unlike game one, the Cougars pitching
dominated the second gamie of the series
and their starter gave up only one run. The
Cats did manage 10 hits but failed to con-
vert on any scoring opportunities. Alex
Entrekin ’06 tallied two hits, which
increased his hitting streak to 13 games.

The rubber game of the series went
much like the second game, as the
Charleston pitchers held the ’Cats to only
one run on seven hits. The Cougar offense
was just as potent and took eight runs off
of the Davidson pitching staff.

The loss puts the ’Cats in eighth place in
the SoCon, but the team hopes to recover
this week with a home game against Duke
on Wednesday and a home series against
The Citadel April 30 through May 1.

This week Jay Heafner was added to the
2005 Brooks Wallace Award “watch list.”
Heafner, who currently bats .442 with nine
home runs, 49 RBI, and 38 runs leads the
’Cats offense in nearly every category, and
also serves frequently as the ’Cats closer
with an ERA of 5.79 and six saves.

Excellent Employment Opportunity

Come join our team at
THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB!

The club is looking to employ persons for the
wait-staff. Individuals applying for this
position should be team players that
have high energy. Those with

experience will be given preference.
Come by the club and apply in person:
THE PENINSULA YACHT CLUB -
18501 HARBOR LIGHT BLVD.
CORNELIUS, NC. 28031

Further questions can be directed to : 704-892-9858

