THE DAVIDSONIAN....

from Funding, page 16

No preferential treatment

Not only do ‘scholarship counts separate
Davidson from its competitors, but Wildcat
teams battle numerous other obstacles,
including the academic rigor of the College
and the lack of admissions leniency.

For instance, many Davidson opponents
hold slots in admissions for certain athletes.
Davidson holds no such slots.

“Wake Forest has slots. Duke Has slots.
We don’t-have slots,” said Spear. “We want
the integrity of the student athlete to contin-
ue.”

And while it may be hard to entice the

blue-chip high school athlete to choose
Davidson, especially if he or she cannot clear
admission standards, the student athletes this
school attracts fit it better anyway.

“We don’t conceal who we are. We let [the
athletes] know up front what we are about,”
said men’s basketball coach Bob McKillop.
“We don’t just recruit talent. We recruit fit—
fit for the school. Fit for the team.”

Thus, the success of the teams shouldn’t
be solely characterized by the wins and loss-
es in a given season.

“We can’t just look at wins and losses,”
said Athletics Director Jim Murphy. “The
athletic department helps the college meet its
objective, and that is to build great leaders.”

Graduation rates

Once the student-athletes get to campus,
Davidson is then one of the best at making
sure they leave with a degree.

According to the latest NCAA records,
Davidson graduates 91 percent of the schol-
arship athletes within six years, while the
NCAA average is 62 percent.

How do our main opponents compare?
UNC Charlotte, a very comparable athletic
program, graduates a mere 68 percent of its
scholarship athletes, and UNC Greensboro
graduates just 67 percent. Furman, perhaps
the second strongest school academically in
our conference, likewise graduates just 81
percent.

SPORTS

Athletics extension of College

Because of these factors, athletic success
will always be difficult for Davidson. Still,
the overall integrity and mission of this insti-
tution carry over into the athletic department.

“The integrity and mission of the college
go hand in hand,” said McKillop.
“Professors reinforce the same sense of
responsibility and accountability in the class-
room that coaches expect on the playing
field.”

“It’s a credit to the coaches, the players,
and the college. The typical Davidson stu-
dent tends to perform over their head,” said
Murphy. “If you get that mentality, with
good coaching and motivation, you’ ll tend to
be successful with limited resources.”

And some teams, most notably soccer,
basketball, and women’s tennis, do compete
on a conference and even national level.
Unfortunately, most Davidson teams cannot
make the same claim.

Room to improve

“TJ want more of.a winning atmosphere in
all programs,” Spear said. “Recruiting, fund-
raising, teaching better. We want to win. The
athletes need to want to win. There needs to
be more pride in winning.”

“Most programs spend more money every
year than funding provides,” Spear contin-
ued. “We have to raise our own funding.”

The biggest issue that Davidson faces,
though, is the tenuous line between main-
taining academic integrity while doing all it
can to be competitive in the Southern
Conference and beyond.

It would be great to see what Greg Ashton,
Annette Watts, and Dick Cooke, just to name
a few, could do with funding comparable to
even rival institutions.

Unfortunately, Davidson prohibits all of

‘its programs from receiving maximum fund-

ing, and almost every team is far below the
maximum.

“In scholarships, Davidson is continuing
to grow,” Murphy said. “The DSP has made
a tremendous impact, but we have to
increase our scholarship levels to stay com-
petitive.”

(

CALLING MUSICIANS
POETS ano ARTISTS!

WE'RE LOOKING FOR ARTISANS TO
PERFORM AND DISPLAY THEIR WORK

AT OUR NEW CORNELIUS LOCATION.

MUSICIANS and POETS: bring by a demo or examples of your work

ARTISTS: Pick up a display application to have your work
displayed on a rotating basis.

REJERRY

fONT’S PINES:

19930 WEsT CATAWBA AVE., CORNELIUS
Near McAuister’s Dewi - Exit 28, oFF I-77

704-896-1900

| WWW.BENJERRY.COM/LAKENORMAN AND WWW.PORTCITYJAVA.COM

SCE5398936

WE OPEN: MON-FRI 6AM, WEEKENDS 7AM

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20, 2005

13

| ake Norman’s

Finest Italian

All Students, Faculty, and Staff
receive 20% off with CatCard!

Fr ivery!

T0005 W. CATAWBA AVE (EXI By
704-987-0479

VISIT WWWILGIARDINO.US

