4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

be

More students use their meal plans on weekends at Commons since its renovation.

NEws

photo by Emma Garren

Commons sees higher
usage since renovations

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

This: summer’s renovations to Vail
Commons have increased student and facul-
ty usage of the dining hall.

Although the $1.6 million renovations
have not yet resulted in a significant increase
in the total sale of student meal plans, more
students now eat at Commons on weekends,
and the missed meal factor has decreased.

Although Commons has traditionally not
been a popular weekend dining option, it has
been serving between 200 and 300 people
during Friday and Saturday dinner hours.
Meal plan use during lunch on these days has
also increased.

Additionally, the decrease in the missed
meal factor, which refers to the number of
meals on their meal plans students do not use
each week, shows students are more fully
taking advantage of their meal plans.

“The renovations to Commons do make
me want to eat there rather than at the
Union,” said Karina Nascimento ’08.
“Sometimes I feel like the Union doesn’t
have very much variety. I’m always eating
the same things there, but Commons has
more options.”

Even though the total number of meal
plans purchased has increased only slightly,
students are buying larger meal plans.

A new five meal, no Bonus Bucks option
was popular this semester. Dining Services
sold 40 of these plans.

According to Dee Phillips, Director of
Dining Services, the biggest overall change
in attendance at Vail has occurred amongst
the faculty and staff. More departments are
holding meetings in Vail, and many profes-
sors meet students over lunch.

Phillips attributes the increase in

1S sn Aniiverary Select Coup ($i
: 20% OFF

(Take Out & Dine in Only)
Not to be combined with other coupon

H Teeter

Commons’ popularity to the increased vari-
ety of options, including at least one vegetar-
ian entree in every line, and to the increased
efficiency of the multiple serving lines.

“We might swipe 300 people in 15-20
minutes during our busiest periods, but it
never feels like there are 300 people being
served,” Phillips said. “The lines are shorter.
In the old [Commons], the wait in the lines
always felt like it took forever, regardless of
the amount of time actually spent in line.”

Upgrades to the food preparation technol-
ogy in each of the serving lines have greatly
contributed to the efficiency of Commons.

The Turbo-Chef oven in the pizza line, for
example, cooks the pizzas much more quick-
ly than the old machine did. Additionally,
more highly-skilled chefs have been hired
for the grill and sauté lines.

The increased aesthetic appeal of
Commons also contributes to its popularity.

Commons has not yet yielded an increase
in profits, however. Although production has
increased, the higher level of skill employed,
coupled with the increase in the amount of
food being served, has balanced the slight
increase in meal plan sales.

Commons continues to cover its operating
expenses, as it has in past years.

Currently, the staff is anticipating the
changes in meal plan sales that next semester
may bring.

“Let’s save our final evaluation of the ren-
ovations until next semester, after everyone
has had a chance to see what’s happening in
Vail,” Phillips said.

This summer’s renovations only encom-
passed the first phase of the changes planned
for Commons. Upcoming improvements will
include renovations to the main kitchen, the
addition of private dining areas, and the pur-
chase of new tables and chairs.

CCRL, from page 1

Patterson Court.

“Since the Alphas came to campus, I no
longer see 36 white faces at Patterson Court
meetings,” Hamm said. “This adds a com-
pletely different perspective to the discus-
sion, which is important.”

Assistant Dean of Students Ernest Jeffries,
a guest at the CCRL meeting, also empha-
sized the degree to which black Greek organ-
izations encourage the social participation of
minority students.

“T am an Alpha, and I have been an active
member for more than 15 years,” Jeffries
said. “This type of organization promotes
involvement; it requires a great commit-
ment.”

The women highlighted the importance of
making women of all ethnicities feel wel-
come in a sorority at Davidson.

“We want this organization to be open to
everyone,” organizer Cherita Jeffreys ’08
said.

The women also explained that the organ-
ization would also provide a place for
women with underrepresented ideological
perspectives to gather.

“Once minority women feel like they have
a place to become involved in court life,”
White said, “they will be able to interact with

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 16, 2005

women from the eating houses. Everyone
will then come to see that there is ideological
diversity as well as ethnic diversity at
Davidson.”

“Once minority women feel like
they have a place to become
involved. in court ‘life, they will be
able to interact with women from
the eating houses. Everyone will
then come to see that there is ideo-
logical diversity as well as ethnic
diversity at Davidson.”

--Whitney White ‘08

Moore agreed that minority women need
to feel like they belong on the Court.

“We seek to give minority women a more
developed, organized experience,” she said.
“They need an organization where they feel
comfortable and develop a greater social
interaction and possibly even join an eating
house on Patterson Court.” ;

The CCRL vote follows a vote by the
Patterson Court Council in support of the
sorority. President Vagt will now decide
whether a historically black sorority should
be allowed to come to campus.

Hinds Feet goes long-term

By SARAH BALEY
Staff Writer

Hinds Feet Farm, a non-profit organiza-
tion located in Huntersville, will open in
2007 as a long-term family care residence
for survivors of traumatic brain injury.

“By the time we’re fully operational, we’ll
have three programs out here up and run-
ning,” founder and executive director Martin
Foil ’85 said. “The first is the residential pro-
gram... for up to six individuals. Then there
will be a day care program for up to 10 [indi-
viduals], four or five days a week. Then there
will be a club house program,” in which
other groups can use the facility for meet-
ings.

“[The program] is not about how
much money the patients make ...
The point is that it’s something
they grow themselves. Whatever
they earn is their personal essay.
This teaches them to be self-suffi-
cient, to become part of society in
general.”

--Amanda McQueen ‘06

Many Davidson students, as well as organ-
izations such as Davidson Outdoors and
Rusk Eating House, volunteer at Hinds Feet

Farm.

CoHo also sponsored the Mount Everest
Climbing Challenge in October to raise
money for the organization.

“[{Hind’s Feet Farm is] trying to do some-
thing that not a lot of other places do,” vol-
unteer Amanda McQueen ’06 said. “Marty
has all these huge plans. There will be ani-
mal husbandry, three horses and some cats.
Eventually, they’re trying horticulture to [let -
the patients] grow their own produce. It’s not
about how much money the patients make...
The point is that it’s something they grow
themselves... Whatever they earn is their per-
sonal money. This teaches them to be self-
sufficient, to become a part of society in gen-
eral. [At Hinds Feet Farm], they won’t just
stay in their little hole.”

Assistant Dean for Community Service
Stacey Riemer encouraged McQueen to
become involved in Hinds Feet Farm.

“I’m doing the film and media studies con-
centration so I was really interested in doing
something media related,” McQueen said.
“[Riemer] said that I could do some kind of
PR for Hinds Feet Farm.”

Now, however, McQueen’s responsibili-
ties have expanded to include administrative
activities.

“T’m seeing all the stuff that [Marty] has to
deal with,” McQueen said. “Doing data entry

See Hinds Feet, page 5

Please call us
with ions or to
schedule a vist!

NEW LISTING!

* 3 Bedrooms, 2 1/2 Baths
* Private porch and garage

1.677 Squore Feet!

