THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2005 = 11

Public disagreement Compromise is key on Kashmir issue

good for campus

I never saw it coming. When I
was offered a position on the
Davidsonian editorial staff, I saw
a great-looking extra curricular, an
opportunity to work with interest-
ing, opinionated Davidson stu-
dents, and a lot of time trying to
master the nuances of the newspa-
per’s MAC computers.

What I did not see was a flood
of passionate letters and articles
touching on issues as sensitive as
gender, race, stereotypes, and sex-
ual crimes.

I was equally as blind to the
possibility that articles published in the Perspectives section
of the Davidsonian had the power to divide, unite, irritate,
infuriate, and provoke Davidson’s community and inspire
campus-wide debates and disagreements.

What do I think of these unforeseen consequences?

I think they’re great.

But let me explain.

Division, argument, stereotypes, and accusations: these
we can do without. However, these potentially detrimental
interactions do not go away if we ignore them, especially
when they relate to topics as personal as those recently dis-
cussed in the Perspectives section of the Davidsonian.

If we refuse to air our disagreements in an organized and
structured manner, animosity will not disappear; instead, it
will remain inside our community, silently festering until
something provokes an explosive and possibly disastrous
reaction.

Such a reaction could be mild, but when dealing with top-
ics as delicate as race and gender, the likelihood of someone
responding with hatred or violence is not negligible.

So what good does venting about these issues in a public
forum such as a campus newspaper do? A lot of good.

Ask the author of any such article or column. By taking
the time to think about the issues, identify their feelings,
organize their thoughts, and write a coherent commentary,
the authors themselves arrive at a better understanding of
their views.

‘But the advantages of their work are not limited to just
themselves. Those who read such opinions are also provoked
to respond to others’ ideas, prompting them to come to a bet-
ter understanding of where they stand on the issues. This cre-
ates an atmosphere favorable to productive debate.

halley’s comment

5 a Ae

HALLEY AELION

Furthermore, I applaud the Yowl
for being bold enough to start the
whole controversy in the first
place by raising such a sensitive
issue without fear of political
correctness.

And after the writing is over, actual debate can take place,
as it will on October 5 in.a luncheon sponsored by
Davidson’s Women Committee (DWC). -

In my opinion, the DWC has taken this recent controversy
in just the right way by using the campus’s obvious gender
disagreements to further encourage debate and discussion.

It is not just the DWC who has been smart enough to use
the Davidsonian as the educational tool it can be. Alpha Phi
Alpha, SISTAHs, and the faculty have also joined in. I
applaud their efforts.

Furthermore, I applaud the Yow! for being bold enough to
start the whole controversy in the first place by raising such
sensitive issues without fear of “political correctness” (a
term I consider to be a 21st century euphemism for plain old
censorship).

Long before this politically-charged 21st century,
Davidson College was founded to be a liberal arts college; its
founders imagined a campus dedicated to the promotion of a
curriculum based on humanist teachings which encouraged
students to learn a broad variety of subjects to be better pre-

_ pared for the real world.

But the one skill these humanists really stressed was
dialectics: or the use of discussion and debate to arrive at the
truth. I am proud of our campus for continuing this tradition
today, and I hope it continues far into the future. Don’t agree
with me? Write a letter.

Halley Aelion is a sophomore from Bowie, Md. Contact
her at haaelion@dvidson.edu.

: ' cies Like two toddlers quarrelling
global perspective : :
; = over a favorite toy, Pakistan and

India have been at loggerheads
over Kashmir since 1947. I could
go on to cite statistics about how
many hundreds of thousands of
people have been killed. But while
I greatly respect the soldiers on
S both sides who gave their lives in

= the line of duty, I believe the great-
est impact has been off the battle-
field, on the hundreds of millions
of people who live in these two
countries.

Unimaginable sums of money
have been spent buying new planes and maintaining huge
standing armies; this money could have been better spent
reducing illiteracy and poverty, building infrastructure, and
fueling economic growth. With a significant part of the pop-

way, the poor who are starving for food and the businesses
starving for cash don’t have to compete with the biggest
money drain—the military.

But there is hope for the future in the leadership of both
countries. With economically-minded men at the helm in
both countries, Indian PM Manmohan Singh and Pakistani
PM Shaukat Aziz, hopefully both countries can see beyond
the tanks and guns and focus on the starving masses in their
country.

Both India and Pakistan have been historically averse to
change. Rather than making progress in leaps and bounds,
the governments have been saddled back by their electorate,
who see any change in policy as succumbing to pressure
from across the border.

For most of its history after independence, Pakistan has
been under military dictatorship. The last two democratical-
ly elected leaders are living in exile out of the country, and
the religious extremists remain quite a powerful force in the
country. And across the border in India, the bureaucracy has

ulation below the poverty line in
both countries, economic devel-
opment is of crucial importance.
At the heart of the issue is the
Kashmir dispute. Generations of
diplomats on both sides have
spent the better part of their
careers working on an agreeable
long-term solution, but to no

Saddam Hussein will champion
human rights and democracy
before either government will be
ready to take a bold step forward
to resolve the crisis

enough red tape to wall-
paper every house in the
country, and there are
enough internal problems
and _ religious tensions
without having the
Kashmir problem to deal
with.

Saddam Hussein will .

avail. And any territorial conces-
sion from India is extremely unlikely, as it requires a two-
thirds majority in the Parliament—no government has been
able to put together that kind of majority for anything, let
alone for giving up land!

Pakistan is also not likely to give up its claim to Kashmir,
as even the slightest indication of compromise by the
Pakistani government would be met with huge domestic
backlash.

But perhaps we can start with baby steps. Instead of
scratching our heads for a long-term solution, let’s start with
a short-term ceasefire maintaining the status quo. That could
bring more results by allowing both nations to focus on inter-
nal matters without fear of losing ground on Kashmir. That

On September 15, I watched
as 10,000 people and a handful
of Cirque du Soleil rejects con-
quered 120 acres of land in
north Charlotte. Billy Joel’s
“My Life” played as this deluge
of emptors elucidated the
intendment of their lives by act-
ing like a flummoxed but pas-
sive bovine herd headed for the
; abattoir (sorry about the vocab,
but it’s my first op-ed of the
year and Financial Aid slashed
my aid to pieces, so I have to
show my parents I’m learning

SAM SPENCER

something.) .

The spectacle was attended by Charlotte mayor Pat
McCrory and County Commissioner Jim Puckett. McCrory
was happy to mention that the victory for capitalism I wit-
nessed was facilitated by the 2000 new jobs created by the
Taubman Centers real estate investment trust.

80,000 denizens of Charlotte ...
had attended the opening of
Northlake Mall, but I would
wager that I was one of the few
worrying about the implications
of this mall, and the mall culture
in general.

Of course, few if any of these jobs were created by local-
ly.owned companies, but that didn’t matter. Puckett remi-
nisced about his childhood, which included growing up less
than a mile from the site. I found this ironic since he had
been instrumental in the desolation of a good chunk of his
old stomping grounds.

By the end of the day, 80,000 denizens of Charlotte and the
surrounding area had attended the opening of Northlake
Mall, but I would wager that I was one of the few worrying
about the implications of this mall, and the mall culture in
general.

champion human rights
and democracy before either government will be ready to
take a bold step forward to resolve the crisis, as Israel did
with its withdrawal from Gaza.

Intervention is not the way to resolve this dispute. Both
nations, India particularly, would see this as undermining
their sovereignty. Instead, there should be economic jincen-
tives to bring the troops back from the border and initiative
to spend the money on education and policies that will spur
economic growth. Only then can India and Pakistan start to
realize their economic potential.

Aneesh Kulkarni is a freshman from Charlotte, N.C.
Contact him at ankulkarni@davidson.edu.

‘Mini-Birkdales’ to change community

I still don’t understand why 10,000 people were waiting all
morning for a mall to open. I don’t want to critique our entire
consumer culture—it’s the backbone of the Chinese econo-
my—but the sight of all those people trying to get through
one pair of sliding doors was ridiculous. Perhaps I’m just too
old-fashioned to savor the fruits of progress.

By the time my class graduates, there will be two new
“Mini Birkdales” affecting the town of Davidson in both eco-
nomic and practical ways. One such project will have two
hotels and be built right at exit 30 and will confound drivers
and the children at the two schools next to the project with
three traffic circles. The other will be built on South Street
south of Davidson Elementary with a lot of high-density

housing.

Both could
cause traffic oe on
nightmares, —
endanger ele- ‘ay ‘ye CFS age t\ 4
mentary school rot Lad 4 wa
children, and hl vi

receive a nice
revenue stream
nine months out
of the year from
our student
body (full dis-
closure: I was
hit by a car in
third grade
because of poor
traffic and safety planning around what was then the new
Davidson Elementary.)

Nevertheless, if managed correctly the shopping centers
could put more money into our community, and generate tax
revenue. Additionally, Summit Coffee has the right of first
refusal for the “coffee shop” slot in the development on
Griffith Street, keeping Davidson Starbucks free a little
longer. Still, many of the town’s citizens feel the mere con-
cept of a commercial development is heresy.

These are issues that we as Davidson students should care
about. If you register to vote in Davidson, you have the

™~) hl eer
fit ar

» photo by shi pbb aki

Tens of thousands thronged the
opening of Charlotte’s Northlake Mall

chance to either re-elect or remove some of the people

responsible for these decisions. The deadline is October’ 15.

Sam Spencer is a junior political science major from
Davidson, N.C. Contact him at saspencer@davidson.edu.
