4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

School starts search for
new Dean of Admission

By EmIiLy Kota
Senior Staff Writer

The search for a new Dean of Admission
and Financial Aid is underway, following the
resignation of former Dean Nancy Cable. A
broad job description is being written, and
the position will soon be advertised.

Witt/Kieffer is serving as the college’s
executive
describes itself as “the nation’s largest and
most experienced search firm that special-
izes in the education and not-for-profit sec-
tors.”

The firm will help with the logistics of the
process, as well as make connections with
potential applicants who might be interested
in the position but are not actively job
searching.

A representative from Witt/Kieffer visited
campus and met with faculty and staff in
order to formulate a job description and get a
feeling of Davidson’s needs.

While qualifications for the position have
not been formalized, College President
Bobby Vagt looks to the example set by
Cable, who acted “‘as a face of the voice of
the community.”

Vagt hopes to find someone who can act as
an “ambassador of the campus” and who is
experienced, creative, and fully understands
the nature of Davidson. Additionally, Vagt
said the position should be filled by a person
of “great integrity and high professional
standards.”

Advertising the position is the next step in
the process, followed by taking resumes and
applications for the job.

A committee comprised of various faculty
and staff members will review submitted

Enter today for a ¢

you need to get ready

Prizes include:

search firm. The company ,

hance to win the tools

applications. The committee includes
Professor of French and chair of the Faculty
Admissions Committee Homer Sutton,
Associate Professor of Biology Karen
Bernd, Professor of Psychology Julio

Ramirez, Vice President of College
Relations Kristin Hills Bradberry, and
Director of Human Resources Carl
Sorenson.

After selecting the candidates that best suit
Davidson’s needs, the committee will con-
duct telephone interviews, which will be fol-
lowed up by airport interviews with approx-
imately 8-10 applicants.

Airport interviews are a common practice
and take place at the airport. The committee
will travel there in order for the process to
run more smoothly.

Next, three to four candidates will visit the
campus to be interviewed by a wide variety
of people.

Summer is the best time for the search to
become very active for several reasons.
First, as the admissions cycle runs, the
process cannot begin until new acceptances
are completed. Additionally, most potential
applicants for the position will begin looking
at available opportunities later in the year.

Vagt expressed concern over the potential
lack of student involvement in the process,
because the majority of the process will
occur over the summer. He is confident that
there will be enough students on campus
over the summer to gauge general student
opinion.

The Board of Trustees, which will be
involved from the airport interviews on, will
make a recommendation.

Vagt hopes to fill the position by the
beginning of the 2005-2006 academic year.

for grad school!

» Kaplan programs and services

> Dell laptops

» Tickets from STA Travel to
visit your target grad school

» And more!

Visit kaptest.com/giveaway by May 31 to enter!

Test Prep and Admissions

Marketing Department, 1440 Broadway, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10018.

s

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com/giveaway

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO. ENTER OR WIN. Open to legal residents of the 50 United States and the District of Columbia and Canada (excluding the Province
of Quebec) and students residing on a student visa in these eligiblé jurisdictions who are eighteen (18) years of age or older as of March 16, 2005. LIMIT: One
entry per person. All entries must be received or postmarked by May 31, 2005. For additional eligibility restrictions and instructions to enter, see the complete
Official Rules, available at Kaplan centers and on-campus sites in the U.S. and Canada, online at kaptest.com/giveaway, or by sending a self-addressed,
stamped envelope to Grad School Giveaway, 1440 Broadway, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10018. Three (3) winners will be selected from all eligible entries received
in a random drawing to be held on or about July 8, 2005. Odds of winning depend on total number of eligible entries
Constitutes entrant's full and unconditional agreement to and acceptance of the complete Official Rules. VOID WHERE PROHIBITED, TAXED, OR OTHERWISE
RESTRICTED. If you do not wish to receive notice of future Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions promotions, contact us at Kaplan Test Prep and Admissions,  —~

LIL

. Par

in this pi

SPGAOOOS

Batten, continued from page 3
college that, appropriately, prides itself on
courses that are not pre-professional,” Vagt
said. “It’s nice to interject a piece of the real
world into the liberal arts curriculum.”

Taylor Batten, the son of James Batten and
editor with the Charlotte Observer, thought
Hauser’s talk conveyed an important mes-
sage.

“T think the lecture was timely as all of us
in the industry are facing the economic
forces [Hauser] discussed,” Batten said.
“The industry has some huge challenges
ahead of it in addressing the current decline
in readership.”

Batten agreed with many of Hauser’s main
arguments.

“We need to make sure the readers get
what they want and need. In the end, high
quality journalism is essential to survival,”
Batten said.

Charles Horwitz ’08 said, “He offered an
interesting explanation as to how he believes
the quality of news in America has deterio-
rated in the past few decades. Batten’s dis-
cussion of the increasing role of commercial-
ism and profit in the news made me disap-
pointed, but it’s something that we must all
be aware of when reading the news.”

Attendee Ellen Giduz, the wife of
Davidson’s News Director Bill Giduz,
enjoyed the talk.

“I could have listened to him for three to
four more hours,” said Giduz, who found
Hauser’s portrayal of the newspaper industry
darker than her own.

“He seemed to paint a bleaker picture than
I would have imagined.”

Responding to questions after the talk,

Books, continued from page 1

The library functions on an Honor System,
and students caught removing books from
the library without first checking them out
are reported to the Honor Council. Penalties
for such violations include performing hours
of public service work, paying fines, and
writing a letter of apology.

“I’m not worried about students stealing
books for profit,” Park said. “But I worry
about students sense of community. The
Honor Code is a gift from students who have
gone before, and students must check out

7 og
‘ <i i
ih] ‘?
4 7 " Y 1%
fe [ a
4 g

4

es.
ae

j

a

—__—
2 ea
j

S@annacees steele

Pera RNA RENN ae Us NI TBE Le,

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 13, 2005

Hauser commented on the special interest
stories that dominate the news such as the
recent Michael Jackson and Scott Peterson
cases.

“If we only talked about the things we
thought were important and didn’t cover
things that were interesting, we’d be pretty

dull;” Hauser said. ,

nm

“Quality journalism will survive.
The good, big newspapers will sur-
vive as they are the dnly medium
that can set the national standard
for news. The local newspapers
will survive by providing accu-
rate, detailed coverage of local
news.”

--Charles Hauser, Batten

Professor of Public Policy

Despite the challenges facing print jour-
nalism, Hauser predicts newspapers will
remain popular for years to come.

“Newspapers won’t disappear for a long
time,” he said. “There’s something special
holding a newspaper in your hand.”

Hauser boasts a distinguished career as a
journalist. He is a member of the Academy
of New England Journalists and was induct-
ed into the North Carolina Journalism Hall
of Fame.

The James K. Batten Professorship in
Public Policy was established in memory of
James K. Batten ’57 in 1995 through grants
from the John S. and James L. Knight
Foundation and Knight-Ridder, Inc.

books for it to continue.” —

Park encourages faculty members to dis-
cuss the importance of the Honor System in
the library with their classes and encourages
students to talk about the issue in their dorms
and eating houses.

Park also urges students and faculty to
help locate the missing books.

“We hope the College Family will contin-
ue to value the Honor System in the library
and work hard to preserve it,” Park says. “It
is one of Davidson’s finest traditions. It
would be tragic to lose it.”

~~

Duncan Berry ’07 and Walter Wiggins ’07 study in the library with a large stack of —
books. The library has seen an increase in the number of missing books this year.

Lake, continued from page 3

Student talents will also be displayed
through a Battle of the Bands showcase.

‘ Lewis Beard ’07 member of the Battle of the

Bands-winning Blue Barnstormers said,
“We're really excited about the prospect of
playing at April at the Lake, although we
have a lot of work to do between now and
then considering we’ve only been together
for four days.”

Student favorites, quesadillas and s’ mores,
will also be available around a roaring bon-
fire and on boat tours.

Saik expects “the event to appeal to all
aspects of the campus.” But, he is aware of

how busy the social calendar is this time of
year. He hopes “the wide range of events
draws that crowd out to the lake over partic-
ular court houses.”

During the 2005-2006 academic year the
Union Board plans to take over April at the
Lake. A new committee, currently called the
Lake Campus Committee, has been formed
to plan events that utilize the Lake Campus
throughout the school year.

“We want to have more events, not only in
the spring, but also in the fall, out at the Lake
Campus,” said current Concert Committee
Chair and 2005-06 Union Board Vice
President Katherine Cox ’07.
