: THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2005

15

Mocs collision: UTC ends Wildcats’ five-game win streak

By MoNIcA JAMOUNEAU
Staff Writer

After a five-game winning streak, the
_longest since the 1998-99 season, Davidson
looked to assert its place near the top of the
Southern Conference when it hosted 15-1

SH oe 48

from ’Cats, page 16

32.4 percent in the second frame. Davidson-

also forced 22 UNC-G turnovers and won
the battle of points in the paint, 32-18.

Coach Bob McKillop said of the game,
“We played with great energy, and without a
doubt the tone was set by [Grant]. He con-
stantly had us on threat offensively and
defensively.”

Grant showed his versatility in the game,
recording 21 points, eight rebounds, and six
assists. Winters had a team-high 22 points on
8-17 shooting, and Morton had 13 points to
go along with three steals. Down low,
Kosmalski had another double-double, his
third in the last four games, with 13 points
and 10 rebounds.

Next, on Monday, Davidson traveled to

“We can’t look beyond
what's in front of us
each day ... We need to
be at our best when the
conference tournament
approaches next March.”

: Wofford, where the ’Cats had not won in
three consecutive trips. Davidson shot better
than 50 percent from the floor in the first
half, but 10 Wofford offensive rebounds as
well as eight Wildcat turnovers allowed
Wofford to enter the intermission tied 33-33.
’ Davidson came out firing again in the sec-
ond half, as Winters netted 12 of the team’s
first 17 points to push the Wildcats lead to
50-32. Davidson maintained that lead for
most of the game, and a Conor Grace ’05

Washington 07 drives hard on the baseline against a Chattanooga defender.

Chatttanooga on Monday night. The game
between the top two teams in the conference

was tight throughout, but Davidson eventu-*

ally fell 67-63.

First, the ’Cats earned their fifth-straight
win on Saturday against East Tennessee, and
in the process they avenged an early-season

three-pointer with just under three minutes:to
play gave the Wildcats a seemingly comfort-
able 66-55 lead.

An 11-2 Terrier run in the closing minutes
brought them to within two points at 68-66,
but Morton’s defensive rebound and two
free-throws with 1.6 seconds left sealed the
70-66 win.

For the game, Davidson hit on 13 of 24
three-pointers, its best clip since the season-
opening win at Missouri. Winters had five
threes for the second consecutive game, and
he ended up with 18 points on the night.
Morton, meanwhile, hit on four three-point
attempts and scored a team-high 20.

Davidson lost the battle of the boards for
just the second time in conference play this
year, though, as Wofford out-rebounded the
’Cats by one, 36-35.

Davidson’s win, along with College of
Charleston’s loss at Chattanooga on Monday
night, assured the ’Cats of at least a tie for a
second-place finish in the South. The top two
teams in each division earn the all-important
first-round bye in the upcoming SoCon tour-
nament, and Davidson needs just one more
win to clinch an outright second-place finish
and an automatic by.

McKillop is not looking that far ahead,
though, as he knows that the team’s next five
games are more important right now than
anything that happens in March.

“We can’t look beyond what’s in front of

‘us each day,” he said, “[because] no matter

what happens, we need to be at our best
when the conference tournament approaches
this March in Chattanooga.”

Fortunately, as the "Cats have shown time-
and-again this year, even then they won’t
mind playing in just another of their many
homes-away-from-home.

Davidson next hosts Georgia Southern on
Saturday at 7:00 p.m.

XN

loss to the Bucs in Tennessee.

“More than anything, we were ready to get .
them back and play our game,” said Jessica
Mitchell ’07. .

The Wildcats ended the first half ahead by
only four points, but better offensive effi-
ciency and a huge 50-28 rebounding edge
helped pace Davidson in the second half.

Davidson actually pulled ahead by 22 with
less than 10 minutes remaining, but ETSU
closed to within nine with a quick 15-4 run.

The ’Cats picked up the defense in the
final moments, however, as Davidson forced
three turnovers to stop the Bucs’ momentum.

“Our second half opening against ETSU
was more focused on offense,” said coach
Annette Watts. “We talked about setting and
using screens in the locker room, and about
finishing our shots. I really felt we did a
tremendous job in offensive execution in the
second half.”

Said Mitchell, “We knew they would
come out strong, but we are a better second
half team. We started getting a lot of offen-
sive rebounds, and we put them in.”

Danielle Hemerka °08 and Katie Hamilton

- °Q7 led the team with 14 points each, while

Mitchell added 11 and Tia Washington ’07
chipped in 10. Hemerka also paced the
women with nine rebounds.

Emily Callahan °05, who notched eight
points and three boards against ETSU, was
honored in Belk Arena prior to the game for
becoming the ninth Wildcat to accumulate
1000 points during her time at Davidson.

Davidson returned to Belk on Monday
against SoCon-leader Chattanooga, and the
game proved to be an up-and-down thriller
worthy of the conference’s top teams.

Chattanooga jumped out to a 33-27 lead at
the break, and the Mocs appeared to have
pulled ahead for good when they went up by
11 with just over three minutes to play.

Davidson fought back, however, as six
points by both Hamilton and Mitchell pulled
the ’Cats to within two with 20 seconds
remaining. Chattanooga made one of two

from Boris, page 16

“People like sports much more here,” he
said. “Basketball here is part of the
school’s system, but in France, they don’t
care. You can either be a student or an ath-
lete. You can’t be a student-athlete.”

Suddenly, though, after a year of high
school ball, Boris got some national atten-
tion.

By the end of his senior year, he had 30
schools looking at him, and he nearly
ended up attending St. Joe’s. He decided to
hold off on college, however, and take a
year of prep school.

By the end of his prep year, he became
even more coveted and had to turn down a
scholarship offer from Michigan State
(that’s the No. 12-ranked team in the coun-

Mitchell ’07 hit a trifecta with 45 sec-
onds left to cut the deficit to three.

free throws to take a 65-62 lead, and
Davidson had one more chance to tie the
game and send it to overtime. Mitchell could
not convert on the potential game-tying
three, however, and the ’Cats fell to 11-5 in
SoCon play.

Davidson will travel to Elon on Saturday
for a game against the Phoenix, whom the
Wildcats defeated earlier in the season.

try, for those not kéeping track) to come to
Davidson.

And thank goodness he came. He’s
about as big-time as the extra filling in the
double-stacked Oreo cookies. This guy is
great, and he’s only going to get better.

To top it off, he’s one of the most ami-
able guys you'll ever come across. No
wonder people recklessly chant his name
to get him in the game.

“My team and I have been working pret-
ty hard; and we think it’s great to have the
whole scheol behind us,” said Boris on the
fan support. “When I hear the crowd chant
my name, I like it, but I don’t know what
to think. I’m just glad my game excites
people.” .

Keep it up, Boris, and you’ ll excite a lot
more people.

HELP WANTED

MATURE, RESPONSIBLE FEMALE TO HELP
WITH MY THREE YOUNG CHILDREN. MAY
INCLUDE SOME LIGHT HOUSEKEEPING.
WILLING TO SUBMIT TO BACKGROUND CHECK.
MONDAY THROUGH THRUSDAY,

| 4-6 HOURS A DAY.
DAYS AND TIMES FLEXIBLE BUT PREFER
MORNING HOURS.
$10.00 / HOUR
CPR EXPERIENCE PREFERRED AND BABYSITTING
EXPERIENCE AND REFERENCES REQUIRED.
MUST HAVE OWN TRANSPORTATION.
PLEASE CALL STACEY IF INTERESTED
: 704-894-0986 —
