THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 2006 5

2006 BANK OF AMERICA CONFERENCE

Speakers to focus on challenges
faced by indigenous peoples

By COLLEEN MCKOowNn
Senior Staff Writer

The tenth Bank of America Conference will focus on the
challenges faced and the roles played by indigenous people
throughout the world. The conference is entitled. “Determining
| Our Destinies: Indigenous Peoples in a Changing World,” and
will be held in the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room of the Union Feb.
12-14.

Director of the Dean Rusk International Studies program
Chris Alexander said the conference will be an eye-opening
and educational experience for students.

“Students understand the term ‘indigenous people,’ and
they can give you an example of an indigenous group,”
Alexander said. “However, most don’t understand the linkage
between indigenous people and their political and economic
issues.”

Alexander expects the conference to interest not only those
students studying politics and economics, but also those
studying history, anthropology, sociology, literature or global
cultures.

Indigenous people, the descendants of a regions’ native
group, make up four percent of the world’s population. They
are found on every continent, and most live in developing
countries. Though they make up such a small number of peo-
ple, indigenous people make up 95 percent of the world’s cul-
tural diversity.

Alexander believes a key struggle for these people is main-
taining their cultural identity in a shrinking world. Other
issues include unstable environments, exclusion from politics,
human rights abuses and stark poverty.

The Dean Rusk program wanted to bring speakers to the
conference who were aware of these issues and were involved
in improving conditions from a grass roots level.

“We didn’t want experts on the Native Americans to come.
We wanted the people themselves to actually come and tell
their own stories, not as victims, but as strategic choice-mak-
ers.” Alexander said. “They are intentional, empowered
actors, not inert victims.”

Speakers from Africa, Australia, Asia and the Americas will
travel to Davidson for the conference. The speakers are
indigenous people themselves and act as leading advocates for
their respective communities.

Organizers plan on testing a new format for the conference
this year. In the past, the conference was conducted as a series
of lectures, but now, the conference will include two round-
table discussions preceded and concluded by statements from
speakers.

Dean Rusk International Studies Program fellow Ashley
Griffith ’05 believes the new format will have a positive
impact on the conference’s effectiveness.

“T think the most interesting part of the conference will be
the round table discussions, partly because all of the speakers
will be participating in each panel,” Ashley said. “These dis-
cussions are intended to provide the audience with a sense of
the common issues and concerns facing a variety of indige-
nous communities, as well as the different ways they are cop-

Alejandro Argumedo

Paul Knight

Lucy Mulenkei

ing with these challenges.”

The round-table discussions, held at 3 p.m. on Monday and
Tuesday, will examine “Globalization and Sustainable
Development” and “Human Rights and Political
Participation,” respectively. The speakers will elaborate on
their own community’s experiences and challenges with the
issue for five to ten minutes, and then the room will open up
for discussion.

. “We can sit across the table from people who have them-
selves been persecuted,” Alexander said. “Even if you’re not
particularly interested in economics or politics, you can learn
from people who come here from different areas of the world.
They bring a unique perspective on lots of issues. We should
seize the opportunity to engage and ask questions.”

Alexander’s only concern is that students will allow their
perceived lack of knowledge to intimidate them and keep
them from asking questions. He assures students that their
questions will be appreciated.

“We didn’t want experts on the Native
Americans to come. We wanted the people
themselves to actually come and tell their
own stories, not as victims, but as strategic
choice-makers. They are intentional, empow-
ered actors, not inert victims.”
--Dr. Chris Alexander,
Director of the Dean Rusk Program

“A goal is to demystify indigenous people,” Alexander
said. “They are not just sacred costume people. Their issues
are faced by people everywhere; students can ask the same
questions they would ask of any policymaker. Davidson stu-
dents are smart, articulate and globalized.”

Among the eight speakers are Walter Echo-Hawk, the
Senior Staff Attorney for the Native American Rights Fund,
and Lucy Mulenkei, the Chair of the African Indigenous
Women’s Organization and the Executive Director of the
Indigenous Network.

Echo-Hawk has worked as a courtroom attorney, a politi-
cal activist and a tribal judge for the Native American people.
He has pushed for religious freedom, prisoner rights and
treaty rights.

Mulenkei promotes indigenous peoples’ political participa-
tion and helps the Kenyan people secure their human rights
through training and workshops. The workshops educate
people on basic rights, as well as HIV/AIDS and female gen-
ital mutilation.

All were all eager to come to Davidson and educate North
Americans about the issues faced by their communities.
None of the people he contacted turned him down.

“Every person jumped at the chance to come,” Alexander
said. “They liked the idea of giving students the chance to
participate. Students understand global issues well, and they
should bring their questions and curiosity.”

es i

Robert Rhoades
