THE DAVIDSONIAN

Members of the Black Student Coalition met with Rev. Moss after Convocation.

Moss, from page 1

He currently serves as pastor of Olivet
Institutional Baptist Church in Cleveland,
Ohio. He has preached throughout the world
and has received numerous honors for his
work in civil rights.

“I applaud Dr. Moss for attacking
the complacency and indifference
that plagues so many of us. It is
evident that not all of us will make
a worldwide impact that will etch
our names in textbooks. However,
Dr. King could not have spearhead-
ed the progress that was made if
people were not willing to bring
change.”

--Chris Burton ’08

Moss spoke about common reactions to
King’s life and impact and encouraged the
audience to carry on King’s legacy personal-
ly, interpersonally and politically.

Moss first expressed deep admiration for
King’s loyalty to his cause and to his people.

King once said that he would rather
“spend ten years in prison than turn his back
on the people of Montgomery.”

Moss then spoke at length about his belief
that King was, and still is, profoundly misun-
derstood and unjustly shunned.

Moss cited an incident in which a director
of the FBI once referred to King as “the most
notorious liar in the nation.” Even some in
King’s own race did not support his actions,
mocking King’s nonviolence and wishing to
get on with the “real revolution.”

“The prophet must always take the risk of
being profoundly misunderstood, as well as
profoundly admired,” said Moss.

Moss spoke about several responses to the
life of King.

He called the three responses “blind, bitter
rejection,” “empty adoration,” and “comfort-
able indifference,”

Jeffries said he can certainly see these
responses lived out by Americans. As for
rejection, he feels that many believe King
has been hyped up, and that he did not do

1/14

conducting an investigation at this time.

,#

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

Patterson Court

At approximately 10:15 a.m., a male student reported being assaulted as he attempt-
ed to enter the basement of one of the houses on Patterson Court. Campus Police are

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

anything special.

According to Jeffries, South Carolina had
rejected King’s holiday in the past, and only
started observing the day within the past few
years. ,

However, according to Moss, “empty ado-
ration” and “comfortable indifference” are
just as bad, if not worse, than the rejection of
King’s life and message.

While most cities have streets named after
King, and most offices have his picture or
quote, most people do not carry on King’s
legacy.

“It’s easy to put up a picture of him, but
not to adopt his principles into practice in
our lives,” said Moss. “It’s easier to put up
monuments than to build a better world.”

Jeffries agrees, saying, “A lot of people
admire the name, but the younger generation
doesn’t know the depths of what he did and
stood for.”

Moss continued by encouraging a different
reaction to King’s message, a reaction of
“creative struggle.”

Creative struggle requires asking oneself,
each day, what one is doing to build a better
world.

Moss challenged the audience to think
about the “real weapons of mass destruction”
in our world, addressing controversial politi-
cal. issues such as the federal budget, the
abandonment of public education, and
aspects of foreign policy.

“I applaud Dr. Moss for attacking the com-
placency and indifference that plagues so
many of us,” said Chris Burton ’08. “It is
evident that not all of us will make a world-
wide impact that will etch our names in the
textbooks. However, Dr. King could not
have spearheaded the progress that was
made if people were not willing to bring
change.”

Moss concluded his talk by urging the
audience to “remember that the dream is in
our hands” and to “ask ourselves what we
shall do to examine the meaning of nonvio-
lence for our lives.”

He said that nonviolence deals with the
way people treat each other, what people put
in their bodies, how people behave and what
people believe about another’s humanity.

Moss asked his listeners to “live in, chal-
lenge, and change the world.

”The battle is in your hands,” he said.
“[King’s] question is, ‘what did you do with

my dream, and what did you do to my —

dream?’ How will you respond?”

Simple Assault

BSC and APA member Chris Burton ’08
said he was upset but not surprised by the
results.

“As a-proud member of both organizations
I can very Well say that neither Alpha Phi
Alpha or the Black Student Coalition are dis-
criminatory or prejudice-based organiza-

_tions,” Burton said.

The BSC, which was established in 1976,
is open to all members of the student body.
Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity was chartered as
the first historically-black fraternity at

‘Davidson in 2003. Like the BSC, Alpha Phi
Alpha membership is open to all students. °
Brendan Watkins °07, president of the

BSC and APA, said the results reflect a com-..

mon misperception of both organizations.

According to Watkins, 15 of the BSC’s 48
dues-paying members are non-black.

“In years past, there have been three
Caucasian members of the executive coun-
cil. It’s not that we exclude, it just that peo-
ple really don’t know [about the organiza-
tion],” he said.

‘Burton added that the APA’s history often
feeds student misperceptions.

“Whenever we have an awareness semi-
nar, we strongly emphasize that while APA is
the first historically-black fraternity, that
doesn’t mean we exclude non-black mem-
bers,” Burton said.

Students offered reasons for the perception
that the BSC and APA exclude on the basis
of race.

Gabriel Mayer ’09 said that while neither
the BSC nor APA intentionally exclude non-
blacks, social pressures often perform the
same function.

“I probably would have listed the BSC and
Alpha Phi Alpha [in the survey] because they
are historically-black organizations,” said
Mayer. “I would feel uncomfortable joining
the BSC and Alpha Phi Alpha.”

Social pressure, according to Burton, is at
the root of student misperceptions.

“People haven’t educated themselves
enough about these organizations and fear
allows them to cast judgment where it may
not necessarily deserve to be,”’ Burton said.

KA’s southern roots lead to student mis-
perceptions

The third organization perceived to
exclude members on the basis of race was
Kappa Alpha Order, a historically-southern
fraternity whose Davidson chapter was
established in 1880.

Rachel Heidmann ’08 was not sure if she
would consider KA exclusionary, but she
found the survey results informative.

“Why would people say KA over the other
fraternities?” she asked.

Sellers voiced a similar concern.

“If it was just a general problem with
Patterson Court, you would see all of the fra-
ternities potentially mentioned. But Kappa
Alpha got 15 mentions,” he said.

KA President Mill Graves ’07 acknowl-
edged that KA’s history as a southern frater-
nity has often been equated with negative
stereotypes such as racism.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 2006:

“Before joining KA, I thought this as well.
It’s historically been a southern fraternity,’-
Graves said.

After joining and getting to know the fra-
ternity’s history, however, Graves found the
association to be nothing more than a com-
mon misperception. °

“I definitely don’t beli¢ve its true,” he
said. a

Former KA president Joe Cheaney ’06
agreed that the history of the fraternity had
something to do with the results of the sur-
vey. °

“Robert E. Lee is the spiritual founder of
KA. So a lot of people automatically think
Robert E. Lee, confederacy, slavery, racism.
This doesn’t make’ sense in my mind,” he
said.

According to Graves and Cheaney, the
perception that KA is exclusionary is one the
fraternity’s national organization is trying to
correct. However, Graves said that the
Davidson’s chapter has always been “for-
ward-thinking”. The College’s chapter
admitted the first two African-American
members in the nation.

Despite the fraternity’s attempts to correct
its image, students still believe its member-
ship is limited on the basis of race.

Doyle said she considered KA to be an
exclusionary organization.

“I’m sure they’re not racist,” she said.
“But I do think they have a very ‘southern
pride’ image, and that is probably why a lot
of people think that they are exclusive.”

Doyle said that the lack of diversity in KA
is another reason for the perception. “It’s
probably just the type of people they appeal
to maybe aren’t as racially diverse,” she said.

According to KA brother Carlos Ortiz ’07,
the fraternity’s makeup is not intentional.
Ortiz, who is South American, said, “Frats
are selective organizations. But what drives
the selection process is not race.”

Graves added, “If you look at the other
frats on the court, they are just as diverse and
not as diverse as ours.”

Trying to correct misperceptions

Leaders of all three organizations said they
were working to change the perception, but
there was only so much they can do.

“Perceptions are what they are. You can’t
really change them. It’s a matter of under-
standing,” Graves said.

According to Watkins, all that the BSC
and Alpha Phi Alpha can do is continue to
sponsor campus-wide forums and encourage
dialogue on the organizations’ purposes. In
addition, he said the BSC would put a “ques-
tion box” in the Union for any questions stu-
dents may have on minorities on campus.

Burton said the survey would help ener-
gize the BSC and Alpha Phi Alpha’s aware-
ness programs. In order to correct the mis-
perceptions, however, students would need
to do their homework on the organizations.

“Go to a BSC meeting or attend one of the
events sponsored by KA or Alpha Phi
Alpha,” he said..“If the perception that they
are prejudiced is true, that’s one thing. But if
you find that it’s not true, you need to reeval-
uate the way you think.”

