THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006 = 11

It’s not easy
being green

By ASHLEY SEMBLE

Guest Columnist

\) |
E.H. Little Library houses the carpet in question.

As I trudge towards my hole (aka my carrel) in the E.H.
Little Library, I sullenly drop my head towards the ground in
hopes that it might somehow swallow me up so I can avoid
my fast-approaching organic chemistry test.

What I’m met with is a sight that the average stressed pre-
med, such.as myself, encounters more often than is mental-
ly healthy: the green pigment of our library’s carpet.

I am strongly opposed to the carpet--resembling the mess
that I routinely clean up on the average post-party Sunday in
my eating house bathrooms--that I see every day.

As soon as this mashed pea color hits my sleep-deprived
eyes, I begin to ponder the origin of this supposedly aesthet-
ically-pleasing material.

Was there a man who passionately exclaimed, “We should
put green carpeting in the library!”

Whoever this man is, he has atrociously vile taste, and he
will never be able to get a girl. (I am purposely omitting the
option of a woman having a hand in this selection because
no self-respecting woman could have picked that green
unless high). I’m here to tell this man that I severely dislike
him, and so do all the rest of my fellow library loiterers.

I cannot help but ponder why —
none of the recent SGA
presidential candidates decided to
campaign for a more pleasant
carpet color.

Countless fellow Davidsonians have confided that the
only reason they do not frequent the library is because they
feel that the color of the carpet is depressing. It could be the
carpet shade or the three tests and a paper that is causing this
misery. That is open to debate.

I cannot help but ponder why none of the recent SGA
presidential candidates decided to campaign for a more
pleasant carpet color (not to imply that the reintroduction of
kegs onto campus isn’t the most pressing calamity facing
Davidson’s student body).

If one of the candidates had proposed a realistic plan to
eliminate the ugliness that is the library carpeting, he would
have guaranteed probable possession of my vote. I say
“probable” possession simply because I was holding out for
the candidate who promised perpetual transportation up and
down the hill via the ever-popular Vamanos Van.

I wish that the library floor could reflect the brilliance of
the hundreds of students that stomp on it every day. I wish
that I would no longer be forced to stare into an ugly abyss
while memorizing functional groups. Most of all, I wish that
all the carpets, in all the libraries across the country, could
instill feelings of great joy, rather than misery and sorrow.
(Maybe not too much joy, though, because if I was in that
good of a mood in the library, I’d probably stop being a loser
and get the heck out of there).

All I desire is pretty carpet in a color that everyone can
enjoy —perhaps a deep mango or a rich maroon. Until the
day when I can procrastinate (by checking my email every
seven minutes) with attractive carpeting beneath my feet, I
will hold out hope for a better world—a world of kegs at the
court, a world where the Vamanos Van would make the aver-
age walk up the hill a party and a world without ugly green
carpeting.

Ashley Semble '09 is from Winston-Salem, NC. Contact
her at assemble @davidson.edu.

- VAGINAL FoRUM .
Ani unnecessary vulgarization

‘By DANIEL VAN OUDENAREN
Guest Columnist

The “Vagina Monologues,” a production ostensibly pro-
moting sexual education, rape awareness and greater respect
for women, came to Davidson this past weekend. Given that
the play has been performed at Davidson since 2001, much
of the community apparently embraces the production, see-
ing in it an expression of liberation for oppressed women.

But it is my view that the “Vagina Monologues” first pro-
motes a perverse notion of womanhood and sexuality, and
second, is more concerned with entertaining and shocking an
audience than with addressing any real social or medical
problems. ;

So why is it that no one on this
campus seems to question the
morality of a performance in
which a prostitute describes jat
length the various moans she

elicits from her clients?

Let us look at a few examples. In one of the monologues
a woman is encouraged to “be her clitoris,” and in another, a
woman is supposedly awakened to a true awareness of her-
self by a man who tells her that her vagina “is who you are.”
In this profoundly self-centered view, the human being’s
identity is grounded in its sexuality and placed in sub-
servience to its impulses.

The focus of “Vagina Monologues” on the physical sexu-
al act, whether heterosexual, homosexual or masturbatory,
removes the act from any social, emotional or moral context
and hence denigrates the individual, who undoubtedly does
exist as a socially, emotionally and morally responsible
human being. The message that Eve Ensler seems to promote
is that when something feels good, it is right, and when it
feels bad, it is wrong.

Thus, in one monologue, rape is decried not because it is
a gross violation of human liberty per se, but because it is, in
this instance, painful and damaging; in another monologue,

a lesbian encounter is described as “a good rape” because it
is pleasurable. The latter. phrase has been removed from
many productions of the “Monologues” because of its con-
troversial nature, but the dangerous moral framework with-
in which the statement was grounded remains.

So why is it that no one on this campus seems to question
the morality of a performance in which a prostitute describes
at length the various moans she elicits from her clients? Is it
because this is empowering? Liberating? For a good cause?

The most serious issue which the “Vagina Monologues”
does address, the widespread African practice of female cir-
cumcision, is discussed for perhaps one minute of a per-
formance about two hours in length. We can appropriately
label this issue and the “Fight against Fistulas,” to which the
Monologues donates its ticket sales, good causes—but not
the performance itself.

The “Vagina Monologues” is part of a continuing move-
ment to divorce sexuality from any moral implications and
part of a wider glorification of sex in our society. Those
seeking to promote the play posted fliers proclaiming “The
Vaginas Are Coming” and hung drawings of vaginas in the
Union. One such banner of their cause portrays a vagina
over a cross and the word “Redeemed,” as if it were neces-
sary to add just a scent of sacrilege to an atmosphere already
pungent with triumphal lustfulness.

Indeed, the “Vagina Monologues” glorifies sexual awak-
enings as born-again experiences, or, as Dan Brown might
say, as celebrations of “the sacred feminine.” In one skit,
vaginas are described as being “full of grace,” and a sex
counselor is said to “believe in vaginas.” In a discussion of
what vaginas smell like, women include the words “God,”
“heaven,” and “the Beginning.” Such tribute is not a true
expression of the potential goodness of human sexuality or
the dignity of women, but rather an insidious idolatry of the
present age.

As a matter of health, sexuality can and should be dis-
cussed, for it is dangerous to cultivate an atrnosphere of
shame and silence in which sensitive issues cannot be
approached. But even in an environment of openness, such
matters should be approached modestly in the proper time
and place—not farcically paraded upon a stage.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08 is a classics major from
Bethesda, Ma. Contact him at
davanoudenaren@davidson.edu.

A declaration, an affirmation

Men are not shy about their
penises. They name them. They
brag about them. They scratch
them. They compare them. They
build national monuments in our
country’s capital that resemble
them.

And this is not on a special day
of the year. It’s not an annual or
semi-annual occurrence. This is
an ever-present reality. Do not
get me wrong: I am not com-
plaining about this reality. It is
what it is.

As.a woman, I do not feel this pride and companionship
with my own reproductive parts, and therefore I cannot real-
ly know what I’m missing. Sometimes the male preoccupa-
tion with all that is phallic seems a little distasteful, but as
long as this fascination does not impinge on another’s rights,
who am I to complain?

I would ask the same courtesy of all those men (and
women, if they exist) critical of this past week’s production
of the “Vagina Monologues.” Yes, it is a shocking play. In
What other way would an audience be persudaded to hear
women talk about their vaginas for two hours?

If this play did not have shock value, how many tickets do
you think Davidson students would have bought? Or, per-

halley’s comment

HALLEY AELION

haps a better question: how many tickets do you think .

Davidson male students would have bought? My guess: not
enough to make a difference in the life of even one woman
suffering from fistula in Africa.

Our patriarchal society is not used to hearing about vagi-
nas, generally does not desire to hear about vaginas, and
must be offered something out of the ordinary to break out
of that mental block.

Only after a way is found to bring the issue forcefully out
into the open can society open up to a new way of discussing
and learning and understanding women’s sexuality.

Eve Ensler, to the chagrin of many, but to the delight of
more, has succeeded in finding that way.

An accomplished poet, Eve knows the best way to
approach a delicate subject is often the most blunt: getting
everything out there opens the way for more detailed and
nuanced discussion after the initial shock. If it offends you,
don’t watch. But don’t knock it as farcical.

As for the oft-heard protestations about the lesbian rape
scene, maybe a review of the meaning of rape is in order:
rape is defined as the crime of forcing another person to sub-
mit to sex acts, especially sexual intercourse. If you listen to
the relevant scene, this is the opposite of what the mono-
logue describes. The act is consensual and very much
desired by both parties. In real life, statuatory rape is not a
question of consent as much as it is age, but let’s remember
what the “Vagina Monologues” is: a play. The point here is
that the sexual experience affirms human liberty in its defi-
ance of convention, leaving the formerly traumatized girl (a
victim of a true rape) believing she has found her “salva-
tion.”

Just as the “Vagina Monologues” is not reality, the
“Vagina Monologues” is not a war cry. They do not provide
explicit instructions to women on how to wield their sexual-
ity as a lethal weapon. The “Vagina Monologues” does not
encourage women to hate men.

What does it do? It does celebrate all that is feminine. It
does condone the recognition and love of the physical body
as an integral part of the female identity. It does empower
women.

Maybe all these things are perceived as threats to some. I
urge them not to worry. The patriarchal society is going
nowhere anytime soon. So embrace “Vagina Monologues”
for what it is: a two hour diversion, an affirmation, art. And
if a couple more women name their. vaginas after the show,
so much the better. oe

«. Halley Aelion ’08 is a French major from Bowie, Md,
Contact her at haaelion@davidson.edu.
