THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006 7

The Snacks played to a packed house In the Union on Saturday night, ending up with second place honors in the Third Annual Battle of the Bands.

Third Annual Battle of the Ba

By MIKE WELLMAN & Katie HUNTER
Arts & Living Editors

The Union rocked last Saturday, and for once the usual late
night quesadilla stampede wasn’t to blame. Students came
out in droves to WALT’s Third Annual Battle of the Bands to
support friends, take in the show, and enjoy free food.
Emcees Paige Taylor ’08 and Nick Fell ’08 kicked things off
at 9 p.m., introducing the J. Knowles Blues Band, the first in
a lineup of seven previously-auditioned and talented groups.

With guitar amps wailing and drum sticks flailing, the
Battle ensued, lasting well into the night. Whether with
familiar songs or original tunes, the Battle’s bands rocked,
using instruments that ranged from basic bass guitars to har-
monicas and mandolins.

Fired up from all the musical intensity, students cooled
down during the evening’s set breaks, gulping sodas and
grabbing candy tossed into the crowd by WALT members.
Several spectators won free t-shirts and other prizes after
showing off their own skills in music trivia contests, which

nds: Tumblin’, snacks and shenanigans

kept them in the mood to hear more great tunes.

Featuring high notes and highlights, like the rockin’ return
of last year’s winners The Blue Barnstormers and newcomer
Oslo Report’s killer trumpet solos, the Battle was truly a
clash of talented titans. Three hours, seven bands, and hun-
dreds of chicken wings later, however, three bands emerged
with the night’s top honors. While The Snacks stole the show
with their original style and the Shenanigans brought the
crowd to their feet at the Battle’s end, it was the Tumblin’
Dice who ultimately rolled to a cool $300 first prize finish.

3and

The

ake UMA ENTS IDE

Alex Miller, Vocals

George McDaniel ’05, Guitar
Cory Skipper, Guitar
Band Members Chas Willimon ’02, Bass

Jim Nash, Harmonica

Brandon Kincaid, Drums

Ui © SNACKS

Dave Burr ’07, Guitar/Vocals
Wilson McBee ’06, Keyboard
Joe Segal ’06, Drums/Backup vocals

Will Stoudemire 06

“Cory Skipper, Brandon Kincaid and I were
in a band previously in the late summer and
early fall of last year,” said guitarist George
McDaniel ’05.

McDaniel and Skipper brought in Chas
Willimon ’02 upon the departure of their
original bassist. In December, Alex Miller
and Jim Nash joined the Dice, which now
consists entirely of Davidson’s technical
staff. They often perform on open mic
nights on Tuesday nights at Saeed's in
Cornelius and have been a steady fixture at
the BrickHouse Tavern on Monday nights.

TOM FOOLER Y A ixap
THE SHENANIGANS

Preston Davis ‘06, Lead vocals

Jeff McKinney ’06, Backup Vocals,
harmonica, mandolin

Brent McCormick ’06, Lead Guitar
Patrick Coman ’06, Rhythm Guitar
Usman Salahuddin ’06, Drums

Virgil Price ’07, Bass

“Dave, Wilson, and 3
and have been playin
while,” said Joe Seg
broughtjin Segal just 4
were all friends first, a

bandmates,” said Segal

“After a better than average Karaoke
night, Preston Davis, soon to be known
as Tom Foolery, was approached by Jeff
Mckinney, soon to be Folk Shenanigan,
to begin playing Bob Dylan covers,”
joked Davis ’06, the band’s lead singer.
Brent McCormick joined soon thereafter,
followed by the rest of the Shenanigan
cast, including Salahuddin ’06, Coman
’06, and Price ’07.

Loud and Dirty Blues/Rock N’ Roll

i

Yea, Everythi
Rock, Hat-Attack

The BrickHouse 4/5, 4/19

Upcoming Shows adel

Motown, Blues, R&B, Funk, Jam, Gaelic

With their experience, professionalism, tal-
ent, and a mean harmonica; this band rolled
away with the Battle’s top honors. As Taylor
Ansley ‘07 put it, “they know how to per-
form.”

“They had the strongest dynamic,” added
Brian Creech ‘05, “and were the most com-
fortable playing together.”

“Some of the other bands used trumpets and
violins, which was cool too, but this band
was really well-practiced,” said Ansley.
Added Alice Neumann ‘06, “They had a
sense of professionalism that the other bands
lacked,”

picaes €

Live Thursday
900 Room 3/31

with Burr’s vocal ability, which I had
never known about before.” “‘They were
different, but really good,” added
Neumann, “and I really enjoyed their
cover of the song “New Orleans” by
Silver Jew.” “They had the best style of
all the bands. It was really unique to
them,” said Ansley, who also called
Burr “an incredible singer.”

The crowd appeal of the band was one of
the deciding factrs of Tom Foolery, as
they had the crowd on their feet and
dancing in the last song.

“They weren’t as strong musically as
some of the other bands,” said Ansley,
“but they definitely had the strongest
reaction from the audience.”

“They sang fun sungs and had a lot of
give and take with the crowd,” added
Neumann. Brian Creech noted that the
band was “strong and fun-loving.”

