THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 1, 2006

Staff Editorial

The Davidsonian Endorsement:

The direct approach

The SGA received the second-lowest score in a survey
asking students to rate nine of the most prominent campus
organizations. This is unacceptable for an organization that,
according to its bylaws, is supposed to represent the “collec-
tive voice of the students.”

Next week’s election for SGA president provides students
with an opportunity to elect a candidate who has the vision
and tenacity to undertake the challenge of reforming SGA.
For SGA to be an effective body, it needs to streamline its
internal processes and facilitate an honest dialogue among
students. These reforms are central to regaining the student
body’s confidence and trust.

At Tuesday’s forum, while each candidate presented valid
ideas for reforming SGA, one candidate had the best
approach for disentangling SGA’s internal policy and
improving SGA’s student relations.

The Davidsonian editorial board endorses Mac Skelton
’07 in the SGA presidential race.

The forum, moderated by this editorial board, gave the
candidates — Andy Agcaoili 07, Evan Kreutzer ’08, Blake
Poole ’08, Darryl Ratcliffe 08 and Skelton — an opportuni-
ty to explain their positions on issues important to this stu-
dent body.

Following the forum, we took a critical look at each can-
didate’s ideas and leadership styles. The consensus, after
lengthy discussion, was that two candidates—Skelton and
Kreutzer—stood out as understanding the need to look both
internally and externally to enact change.

What distinguished Skelton from Kreutzer and the other
candidates was his unrelenting openness, honesty and clari-
ty in the articulation of his positions. His straightforward
approach makes him an ideal candidate for enacting sub-
stantive change.

Skelton’s understanding of SGA’s function is not limited
to the traditional responsibility of advocating concrete stu-
dent initiatives. He views the SGA as a body that has the
potential to facilitate social activism and to promote under-
standing between diverse groups.

This function is a vital way that SGA can extend its reach.

While Skelton has a strong grasp of the big picture prob-
lems and the potential reach of the SGA, he will need to
develop focused goals ‘if he is to succeed where the student
body feels that the SGA of the past has failed.

COhe Babvidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UB ORTA LIBERTAS @

¢ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR -

~ Celebrate Mozart’s Birthday,” Jan. 25) which listed many
One in Four program of special happenings, but I noted the glaring omission of

i . aie any mention of what’s being broadcast by WDAV.
a ttendance inspirin Last week, we aired live concerts from Mozart’s birth-
g place, Salzburg, featuring performers from around the

world, as well as a live Carnegie Hall concert; we featured

This week I was humbled by the men on our campus a series of interviews with William Lawing of the
Rape is difficult issue to confront. It’s hard to talk about, Davidson College Music Department, we made many
harder to think about, and for many almost impossible to announcements each day about the various Mozart events
imagine. at the college; we solicited and played listeners’ requests

But about 280 Davidson men showed up last Tuesday to of works by Mozart, we enlarged. our daily one-hour
do just that: talk, listen, and think about sexual assault dur- pivoal Cale to two nours.90 we could offer even more
ing the One in Four presentation. Male faculty, staff and stu- © No music, we given away vibe CDs. ,
dents invested their minds, hearts and time into creating new th ow Mozart v my favorite composer, but pats no
ways to combat the issue of sexual assault at Davidson and © point..WDAV, 89.9 FM, has been note at Davidson
to promote campus-wide discussion. College for more than 25 years, offering music and arts

Male students turned up in large numbers to hear for interviews to the campus, the region, the country and the
themselves how they can make a difference. Our challenge vor ;
now is to keep talking. Men must remind each other of what narra en our signal at www.wdav.org, we
they heard here. And women: we can learn a thing or two have listeners in Spain, the Virgin Islands, Greece, and
from the men, I think, about how our behavior can be just as wha Knows where else. Employees of the Smithsonian in
harmful as theirs. A dangerous sexual culture will remain DC just wrote to say they play us all day long in their
unless we talk to each other. offices. . ;

The men of One in Four have challenged us to ask: if a I'm tired of chatting with people on campus who, when

friend came to you for kelp, would you know what to do? they learn I'm with WDAV, say, “Oh, you're in
280 men can now say yes. Charlotte?” No, I work for Davidson College. The person

who DOESN’ T work at WDAV is Rodney Dangerfield —
, , . we deserve some RESPECT!
Libby Hubbard ’08. President,
Davidson First Responders Rachel Jeffreys

Producer/Host WDAV
WDAV speaks out for
celebra tion of Mozart The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the edi-

tor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer than

250 words to davidsonian @davidson.edu by
Davidson campus! Sunday night. We reserve the right to edit

Surprise! There’s a classical music radio station on the

I read the good article by Reid Wildman (“Campus to

I feel that there are students on this campus who are mis-
informed about the goals of the Black Student Coalition at
Davidson College. As a Davidson student, I feel that it is
my duty to inform the misinformed. Sadly, the misin-
formed happen to be many of my fellow peers. I will be
speaking on behalf of the Black Student Coalition (BSC).

The BSC is an organization whose sole purposes are to
establish and maintain a spirit of solidarity among the
black students of Davidson College, to effect awareness
within the framework of Davidson College with regard to
the contributions of black persons to the total environment
of Davidson College, to provide an outlet for the social and
cultural needs of black students and to challenge Davidson
College to become an embracing environment for black
students and diversity as a whole.

For those students who find themselves in the racial
majority of Davidson College (Caucasian students), there
is no need for a specific outlet to cater to their social and
cultural needs, solely because the social and cultural make-
up of Davidson College is geared toward the racial major-
ity. Upon acceptance to Davidson, most minority students
leave an environment where a large majority of their peers
were minorities. It is plainly and simply a culture shock.

Before you dismiss this notion as foolishness, take one
moment to think about an experience in which you were
the minority in a group of people very foreign to you. For
those upperclassmen that have traveled abroad, how did
you feel once you reached your destination on the other
side of the world? When you realized that you were only
one of:a handful of Americans in that’area, how did you
feel? I am almost sure that you did not dive head first into
that foreign culture. The BSC is an organization that allows
minorities to have a comfort zone to adjust to a new culture
in a foreign place.

In saying that, the BSC is not a racially exclusive organ-
ization. Article 3, Section 1 of the BSC Constitution bla-

‘tantly states, “All members of the Davidson College
Student Body shall be eligible for membership. Any stu-

SPECIAL CONTRIBUTION

Discrimination not part of BSC mission

for content, brevity and grammar.

dent desiring membership in the Kindred shall be
declared a member upon payment of semester dues.”

In all actuality, the BSC is very much the same as every
other minority interest group on this campus. Much like
these other organizations, we are not a member of the
PCC. Why have you not questioned OLAS (Org. Latin
American Students), ACAA (Asian Cultural Awareness
Association), The Jewish Student Union, MECCA
(Middle Eastern Cross-Cultural Association) or DASA
(Davidson African Students Association) on being racial-
ly exclusive?

As a matter of fact, why have you, those who answered
“yes” to the survey, not questioned your own organiza-
tions on being racially exclusive? If you would like to
base “racial exclusivity” on a set percentage of a certain
race of students in a given organization, then EVERY
organization on this campus is racially exclusive. How
many minorities are currently enrolled as members of Phi
Delta Theta, Connor, Rusk or Sigma Phi Epsilon?

Fortunately, I do not feel that any organizations at
Davidson College are racially exclusive. Quite simply,
President Vagt would not stand for it, and any organiza-
tion deemed as such would be completely purged from
Davidson College. But do you see my point now? I feel
stereotypes and misconceptions in any society can only
be obliterated with communication and tolerance.

The BSC’s doors are as open to new members and
guests as any other organization, fraternity, or eating-
house on campus. I hope to see many more Davidson stu-
dents participate in BSC functions (or even join the
BSC).If you have any concerning the BSC please feel free
to email me (lomack @davidson.edu). I will gladly speak
with you in person or through email, whichever your pref-
erence.

N

Lorenzo Mack ’08
_ Social Chair, BSC

