THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 15, 2006 7

Jack Johnson monkeys around

By PRESTON Davis
Staff Writer

There is a monkey back in theatres. No,
it’s not Duston of the famed “Duston Checks
In II” with Jason Alexander, but the lovable
Curious George, now starring in a recently
released film of the same name.

The film is accompanied by a soundtrack
composed of songs by Hawaiian native Jack
Johnson. The album, incredibly playful in its
sound, fits well with a movie about a mon-
key that pals around with the Man in the
Yellow Hat, as voiced by Will Farrell.

The organic sound, which relies mostly on
simple guitar riffs, also mirrors the simplici-
ty of the roots of Curious George, who
appeared as the central character in a chil-
dren’s book series that began in the 1940s.

Even the sketches in the CD booklet com-
plement the film and the simple roots of the
adorable monkey. These penciled portraits
depict George getting into his typical mis-
chief without a single expression of guilt for
being his childlike self.

Some might criticize the album for its
lackluster sound, claiming that Johnson’s
voice is too fixed in its monotone hum. I
actually find his voice to be rather soothing
and complementary to the instrumentation:

As indicated in the title of the soundtrack,
“Sing-a-longs And Lullabies For The Film
Curious George,” many of the songs have a
soft, melodic quality. These qualities, which
are generally characteristic of lullaby bal-
lads, are distinctive in “Wrong Turn” and, as
expected, in the track “Lullaby.”

courtesy photo

Curious George imitates Jack Johnson.

Jack Johnson gets in touch with his inner child on the Curious George album.

The songs of the album do not feature any
spontaneous crashes or jolts; rather, they
flow smoothly, leaving out high hats and
loud cymbals. The percussion relies mainly
on bongos, brushes, the occasional snare
and shakers that lure the listener into relax-
ation. I’ve found that listening to the album
can provide a well-deserved escape from the
fast-paced Davidson life, due to its leisurely
quality and smooth sound.

Because Johnson is the single source of its
songs, the album is distinct as a soundtrack
in that it is not the collaborative compilation
of music from various genres and artists. The
music retains a common innocent thread, but
the sound is definitely typical Johnson.
Nothing comes as a surprise, as Johnson
retains that smooth, restrained quality that
defines him as an artist.

He does call on old friends to make
appearances on the album, however. Duets
with G. Love, Matt Costa and Ben Harper

,add a little more flavor to the soundtrack.
Additionally, Johnson performs a cover of
the White Stripe’s “We’re Going to be

Friends,” which was one of the songs on the
“Napoleon Dynamite” soundtrack.

The childlike quality of this particular
album is what separates it from his others.
Johnson, a new father, supplies an appropri-
ate voice for the mischievous monkey, which
lends to the album’s playful tone.

His sing-a-longs amplify the true essence
of Curious George; a childlike joy based on
having innocent fun. Three songs even take
their lyrics straight from Sesame Street, with
one promoting the values of sharing, another
providing a soothing lullaby and the last dis-
cussing the importance of the 3 Rs, “reduce,
reuse, and recycle.” This overlap of educa-
tion and entertainment makes the album
unique, as it both excites and enlighten
younger listeners.

While it undoubtedly has universal appeal,
the soundtrack is tailored to the sensibilities
of a child, who will likely find his or her car-
toon reflection in this curious monkey and
his adventures. For lovers of both Johnson’s
sound and Curious George, this album is
sure to please.

f Also featuring a performance by the
-- Davidson College Concert Choir

‘Wednesday, February 22 ©
8pm. :
Tyler-Tallman Hall
The Degas Quartet

Mountaineer speaks on summit and ski adventures

By ALI KARAMI-RUIZ
Staff Writer

If someone told you that it is possible to
eat 5,500 calories worth of chocolate and
butter per day and lose an average of 20
pounds over the course of a few weeks, you
might say they’re crazy. But if you were ski-
ing your way through the glacial South Pole,
as mountain climber and ultramarathon run-
ner Stuart Smith did, you might think again.

Smith, who gave a guest lecture this past
Monday in Hance Auditorium, holds the dis-
tinction of being first American to have com-

pleted the Adventure Grand Slam (AGS). To

earn this honor, one has to reach the summit
of each continent’s highest peak and travel to
teh North and South Poles.

A Texas native and a civil trial lawyer,
Smith became interested in mountain climb-
ing as a youth during family trips to
Colorado.

In 1987, Smith conquered his first moun-
tain, Mt. Kilimanjaro, while teaching in
Kenya with his wife.

Mountain number two was Summit
Aconcagua, located in Argentina. Smith
reached the top of Mt. McKinley, North
America’s highest peak, in 1996. While dis-
cussing this particular experience, Smith

f-

/+ adventure + knowledge

F ” And study abroad means the University Studies Abroad
- . Consortium where you can choose from 25 countries. Come
soak up the vibrant culture and be transformed by the experience.
We offer personalized attention from start to finish.

© Summer, semester and yearlong programs

© Wide range of academic courses ¢ internships

© Language courses at all levels ¢ Field trips and tours
Small dasses © University credit » Scholarships ¢ Housing

A USAC representative may be coming to campus.
Visit usac.unr.edu for exact dates and locations.

se. SACS

Your

tothe

mentioned a climber’s need to carry around
100 pounds of food for every trip.

Smith also discussed some of the common
misconceptions about mountain climbing,
such as the Hollywood-perpetuated exagger-
ation of how quickly one can reach a moun-
tain’s summit.

“In the movie Vertical Limit, the charac-
ters climbed up K2 in three days,” said
Smith, “but it actually takes three months to
climb up K2!”

Smith discussed the difficulties of trying
to climb Mt. Everest, the world’s tallest
peak, immediately after climbing Mt.
McKinley.

He emphasized the huge difference in the
level of difficulty between the two moun-
tains. Smith suggested that climbers attempt
to ascend other mountains in Pakistan and
Tibet before going up the “big one.”

Smith began his journey up to the top of
Everest in March 2002. He had to wait three
weeks in base camp for suitable weather
conditions, due mainly to a series of ava-
lanches that occurred right before he began
his climb.

Though every climber dreams of one day
reaching the summit of Everest, Smith told
the audience that his ascent was an unpleas-
ant experience.

“With so many things that can go wrong,
you climb up the mountain with a feeling of
uneasiness that only grows stronger as you
reach the final parts,” he said.

“If you have a pretty good amount of oxy-
gen, you can stay up to half an hour on the
summit, but most people who do reach it can
only stay for five or ten minutes. The
chances of dying are one in 29 once you start

an

X

Smith reached the South Pole in 2004.

going down.”

After describing his experiences on the
last three mountains, Kosciuzsko, Mt. Elbrus
and Vinson Massif, Smith talked about his
adventures to the North and South Poles.

In 2004, after 18 years of climbing the
world’s highest peaks, Smith decided to
embark on a rigorous skiing trip to the South
Pole. Smith, and a group of five other adven-
turers, skied each day from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.

Skiing in 75 minute intervals and taking
only 15 minutes for rest, Smith required
5,500 to 6,500 calories a day to sustain him-
self. He still lost a net 20 pounds by the end
of the trip.

“T’d even eat fruit cake,” Smith said, as he
told the audience about his futile attempts to
retain weight.

Smith said his Everest trip cost nearly
$30,000. Smith said his next challenge will
soon be climbing Mt. Carstenz, which is
located .in Indonesia.
