THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Wildcats get four wins in first six games

\

By MEGHAN ‘CurRTISS
Staff Writer

Women’s lacrosse has gotten off to a stel-
lar beginning of its season, already accumu-
lating as many wins in its first six games as
it did all last season.

The team traveled to New England over
spring break, winning two of its three season
openers. First off for the Wildcats was a 19-
15 victory over Iona on February 28.
Davidson scored the first six goals of the
game, with three coming from Sarah Walter
’08 and two from teammate Emily Palmer
08.

The Wildcats scored two more times
before halftime, with both goals by Emily
Diefendorf ’08. In the second half, Eloise

Grose ’06 scored four times, while Walter:

added two more goals to her tally. Kiften
Stephens ’06 also had four goals on the day.

The women’s second win came on March
2 with a 17-8 victory over Sacred Heart.
Grose scored six goals to help boost the
*Cats to their win. Other Davidson goals
came from Stephens and Walter. Palmer and
Diefendorf each contributed two goals, and
Callie Seymour ’09 had two assists.

Davidson’s first loss came when they fell
to Bucknell, 14-12, in a tough-fought battle
that was tied at six points during the match.
Stephens had one goal and two assists on the
day, while Seymour scored twice and added
two assists. Grose and Palmer scored three
goals apiece. Goalkeeper Leslie Smith ’06
had 13 saves on the day.

In their home opener on March 8, the
Wildcats overpowered Robert Morris with a
18-5 win. Walter led the charge with four
goals and an assist.

Against the Colonials, Davidson jumped
out early, scoring the first two goals of the
game. The goals came from Diefendorf and

Anna Mitchell ’08. Stephens, Missy Gilbert
06, Alex Eagan ’07, Diefendorf, ‘and
Seymour had two goals a piece.

The ’Cats outplayed Robert Morris both
offensively and defensively. In the shot con-

The ’Cats won four games last season

test, Davidson outshot RMU by a margin of
37-14, while in the ground ball battle the
Wildcats came out on top with 27 to the
Colonials’ 14.

Davidson’s second loss of the season came
against Oregon, who defeated the Wildcats
13-11 in a match at Longwood University, a
neutral location in Virginia. Despite
Stephens’ four goals, the Wildcats could not
propel themselves to a win.

In the first half, Davidson went on a four
goal streak in the last five minutes of the

period to try and close the gap with the .

Ducks. The Ducks’ Jen May then found the

‘back of the net in the last 10 seconds of the

half to put the Ducks out ahead of the
Wildcats 9-7.
The second half began a little dry, with the

Wildcats being unable to score a goal for the
first 20 minutes of the period. Finally, with
about nine minutes left to play, Grose was

able to put one in the back of the net. Becky

Horton ’09 scored her first goal of her
Davidson career with 1:16 left on the clock.
The Wildcats, however, were unable to come
out on top.

The women improved their record to 4-2
with a 12-10 win against Pfeiffer on Sunday.
Seymour led the way for the win with three
goals and two assists on the day. The game
was a hard fought battle between the teams
with the score tied six times throughout the
match.

As the teams approached halftime,
Pfeiffer netted two goals in order to take a7-
5 advantage. Shortly after halftime, Pfeiffer
scored once more to take its biggest lead of
the day. Davidson came back from the
deficit with four unanswered goals, scored
by Gilbert, Grose, Walter, and Heather
Frohman ’09.

With 15 minutes left to play, the game
remained tight. Pfeiffer netted another goal
to tie the game at nine. The Wildcats
responded with two goals by Diefendorf and
one by Seymour.

Defensively, Davidson came out almost
even with Pfeiffer in the ground ball contest,
with 27 to their 29. Goalkeeper Laura
Johnson ’08 picked up her first win of the
season and four saves.

“We are really excited about this season.
We’re already off to a great start, and we’re
playing well together as a team,” said
Seymour. “We worked so hard in the fall and
during preseason, and it is amazing to see
that all of our efforts are really paying off.
We have very high hopes and expectations
for the rest of the season.”

Davidson plays its next game at home on
Saturday at 11 a.m. against Belmont Abbey.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006 15

Work in Davidson This Summer!

Summer Employment in the Library

The Library is now accepting
applications for student summer
employees. Positions are avaliable

in several departments.

Interested students should come by the
Library Circulation Offfice
for an application.

