16

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

When the Wildcats went into halftime trailing by six with
a 19-game home winning streak on the line and an 0-7
record when trailing or tied at the half, they knew that
something had to give.

Unfortunately, it
Catamounts.

After falling behind 7-0 only 24 seconds into the game,
the Wildcats never seemed to be able to climb back in it.
The closest margin was three points at 9-6 just four minutes
into the game. The Catamounts stymied every Wildcat run
with a forced turnover or a big shot of their own en route to
77-70 victory on Saturday in Belk Arena.

Coming off a big win against Furman, Western Carolina
got out of the blocks fast and employed a 1-3-1 zone
defense to keep Davidson on its heels. Many times in the
first half, it seemed like Davidson did not know where to
take the ball and the result was many contested three-point
shots and misses.

Jason Morton ’06 did his best to keep the Wildcats in the
game as he hit four threes in the first half, leaving the
Wildcats within six at the intermission. But Western
Carolina forced the issue to begin the second half, getting
open looks in the paint and rotating their defensive looks
between man-to-man and zone.

Perhaps the greatest indicator of Wildcat success this sea-
son has been Jan Johnson ’06, who has only averaged 5.6
ppg in the Wildcats’ three conference losses, while he has
averaged 15.6 ppg on the season. Johnson often could not
get himself open in the paint because of the Catamount
zone.

“T felt like we didn’t work hard enough to get the ball

wasn’t the Western Carolina

inside,” said coach Bob McKillop. “They tried to take away
the inside, and we didn’t work hard enough to take it back.”

Western Carolina, on the other hand, had no trouble find-
ing its inside shots as it doubled Davidson’s interior scoring
totals, 32-16.

Despite being outplayed in many aspects of the game, the
Wildcats continued to claw their way back and found them-
selves only down by four with 40 seconds to play after
Morton racked up three of his game-high 22 points. The
Catamounts, however, broke the Davidson trap on the
inbounds and sprinted down-court where Johnson was
forced to foul intentionally in order to stop the clock.

Western Carolina hit both free throws and got the ball
back for another potential trip to the line. There were no last
second heroics for the Wildcats on this night.

In several Wildcat losses this season, they have not
seemed to respond well when trailing their opponents. Only
once in November against Massachusetts have the Wildcats
rallied to win from behind.

“I feel like we get impatient when we get down,” said
McKillop. “Our offense seems to lose its focus, and we
begin to attempt bad-looking shots and take ourselves out
of the game.”

Perhaps in this game, however, it was the Wildcat
defense that let them down in the end. Every time that
Davidson made a run, Western Carolina was able to find a
way to score and maintain its lead. The Cats allowed
Western Carolina to shoot 50.0 percent from the field and
only had three steals. Conversely, the Wildcats were held to
38.3 percent from the field, and they committed 11
turnovers, resulting in 13 Catamount points.

Throughout the entire game, it seemed that Western

”

See Basketball, page 15

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
FEBRUARY 8, 2006

Jason Morton ’06 led the ‘Cats in sooring with 22 points
on 7-16 shooting.

Women’s basketball falls to undefeated UT-C

Brynn Kelly ‘07, seen here vs. UNC-G, had six points
and four rebounds in the game vs. Chattanooga.

By SuziE ECKL

within one with just 47 seconds on the clock.

Staff Writer

In a game characterized by several key runs, the Wildcats
defeated the Western Carolina Catamounts 67-63 Saturday at
the Ramsey Center.

The two teams started the game evenly, each taking seven
quick points at the opening of the first half before Davidson
began their first run of the evening. For almost six minutes,
the Wildcats held Western Carolina at seven while scoring
10, two points coming off of free throws.

Davidson maintained the lead until the 1:18 mark when the
Catamounts knotted it up for the fourth time of the game at
27 after and 8-0 run.

With 25 seconds remaining in first half, Catamount
Teyawna Hardy downed her second three-pointer of the
night, but, with just three ticks left on the clock, Danielle
Hemerka ’08 responded with a three-ball of her own on an
assist by Kelly Gassie ’09. The teams left the court tied at 30.

Returning after the break, Davidson and Western Carolina
combined for three turnovers in the first minute, none of
which resulted in any points. After a foul by Gassie at 14:19,
Western Carolina tied the game for the seventh and last time
with the first free throw and then took their last lead with the
second.

Twenty seconds later, Jessica Mitchell ’07 put in a jumper
to steal back the lead which Davidson would hold for the
remainder of the game.

The Wildcats led by as many as 11 points in the game and
sat on a 10-point lead with just over four minutes remaining.
The Catamounts; refusing to give up, went on a 9-0 run to get

Western Carolina then got into foul trouble, and after
protesting the call, received the game’s one technical foul.

Mitchell downed all four of the free throws that resulted.
With one more free throw 15 seconds later on another Hardy
foul, ensured the win for the Wildcats.

Brynn Kelly ’07 led her team with 14 points. Davidson
shot at 48.0 percent in the second half, well over their 40.1
percent average on the season. Playing aggressively down
low, Davidson scored more than half of their points in the
paint.

Monday night, the No. 2 ranked Davidson faced the first-
place Lady Mocs of Chattanooga and fell 76-59 in a game
that allowed UT-C to secure the regular season SoCon title.

On the night, Tia Washington ’07 shot perfectly from the
floor, hitting all seven of her field goals, one of which was a
three-pointer, and both of her free throws.

Even with Washington leading the team with 17 points and
40 minutes on the court, the Wildcats’ defense could not hold
the Lady Mocs back.

“The team always loves to play UT-Chattanooga. They
were prepared to play, excited to play,” coach Annette Watts
said. ““We played well for eight to ten minutes, but it’s hard
to keep fresh legs with injuries and fatigue.”

UTC shot a remarkable 51.6 percent from the field in the
first half and fell just below that with 48.3 percent in the sec-
ond. Davidson shot well in the second half, hitting half of
their 24 attempts and putting down 34 points in the books,
but the effort was not enough.

See Women’s Basketball, page 15

Player of the Week

Tia Washington ‘07

Women’s Basketball

Hometown: Charlotte, N.C. |

Major: Sociology |

In a 59-75 loss to SoCon undefeated Chattanooga, point guard |
Tia Washington 'o7 scored 17 points on 7-7 shooting. For most |
of the season, Washington has handled the ball well for the |
‘Cats and has been a big reason why the ‘Cats are second in |
the conference standings. |

With a time of 4:17.09, Douglas Noreen finished second

in the indoor mile at the Carolina Invitational and broke

the previous school record held by Dan Gibson 'o2. Ryan

Hubbard also earned a school record by running a time
of 22.99 in the 200 meters.

sop aeene ener tvernet an net

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Noreen ’08 and Hubbard 08 break
school records

