THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 22, 2006 5

Murray speaks on replacing welfare state

By COLLEEN MCKOWN
Senior Staff Writer

Charles Murray, a social scientist, self-
classified libertarian and author of the con-
troversial books “Losing Ground” and “The
Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure
in American Life,” spoke at Davidson last
Wednesday.

Murray discussed his new book, “In Our
Hands: A Plan to Replace the Welfare State,”
which will be released Friday.

His lecture at Davidson, cosponsored by
the Speakers Committee of the Union Board
and the College Republicans, was his first
public speaking engagement regarding his
new book.

In Murray’s book, he proposes an alternate
plan to government income transfer pro-
grams such as welfare, Social Security,
Medicare and Medicaid. His plan is based on
a $10,000 annual grant to all American citi-
zens over 21.

He proposes to deposit the grant into every
citizen’s bank account and once someone
makes over $25,000 per year, he or she must
start to pay back the grant.

Murray’s proposal also makes it mandato-
ry for each citizen to pay $3,000 of his
$10,000 each year toward health care, there-
fore making health care accessible to all.

Murray believes that this would allow
people to care for their families and them-
selves, which would resolve the current
problems of poverty and inadequate health
care in the United States.

Murray claims that “the plan” will benefit
the people at the bottom significantly, and
that it has the potential to end poverty.

“No one will need to live in squalor,”
Murray said. “Involuntary poverty is gone.”

He said that the current problems with the
“welfare state” are of principle concern in
the 21st century.

“We are now in the last few decades
before the collapse of the welfare state as we
have known it,” Murray said.

According to Murray’s calculations, by
2011 his plan would cost the same ag the cur-
rent plan. By 2020, it would cost $500 bil-
lion less, and by 2028, $1 trillion less.

Charles Murray spoke last Wednesday.

Murray said that the fundamental problem -

with the welfare state is that it “drains too
much life from life.”

According to Murray, the government is
completely incompetent in dealing with
basic human needs. The three ways of find-
ing meaning in life, he said, are vocation,
marriage or family and community.

“Something like the plan is inevitable,”
Murray said. “It is absurd that we have
poverty in this country.”

With the secular increase of national

Patterson Court Recycling Contest Update

Halfway through the contest, KA is in the lead for the $500 prize

KA: 45 |b. 5 oz.
Very clean and bagged properly
RUSK: 24 Ib.
Very clean and bagged properly
Warner: 14 |b. 15 oz.
PDT: 8 Ib.
Kappa Sig: 4 |b. 6 oz.
FI: 2 Ib. 13 oz.
Turner: Full of plastic milk jugs
BSC: Contaminated with plastic
Connor: Contaminated with trash
SPE: Contaminated with trash and plastic
SAE: Highly contaminated
PIKA: No recycling

The EAC collected trash from around campus for an audit last November.

wealth, he feels that everyone will eventual-
ly see the ‘need for an alternative plan.
Murray also made some controversial
comments about intelligence. He believes
that IQ, not education, is the primary con-

. tributor to intelligence.

“IQ establishes boundaries,” Murray said.
“Someone with an IQ of 100 can’t be a the-
oretical mathematician. Education cannot
solve this problem. There are limits. There
are things each of us can’t do because we’re
not smart enough.”

Therefore, Murray rejects the notion that
any given person can aspire to any given
profession.

“It is not true that each of us can be rich
and famous. Fifty percent of the population
is below the average intelligence,” Murray
said.

Student reactions to Murray’s ideas varied.

“College Republicans cosponsored Dr.
Murray’s lecture because we are deeply trou-
bled not only by poverty in America, but also
by past government policies that have failed
to effectively combat this problem,” College
Republicans President Joseph Adams ’06
said.

Adams hopes that Murray’s ideas will
cause students to realize the current prob-
lems with the government’s approach to
dealing with poverty.

“Dr. Murray’s plan to replace the welfare
state is rooted in a belief that Americans can
better escape poverty if they are given
money to manage on their own than if they
are forced to depend on a welfare-state
model managed by unaccountable and ineffi-
cient bureaucracies,” Adams said.

Adams also said that people who disagree
with the view do not have much trust in the
American people to know what is “best for

themselves.”

Sarah Allen ’08, on the other hand, strong-
ly disagreed with Murray’s ideas.

Though she feels that the current welfare
system contributes to the cycle of poverty,
she doesn’t believe his ideas come close to
an adequate solution.

“I thought he offered a great plan
if you are a middle-class, well-
educated American who knows
how to manage money. But if the
intention is to solve the problem
of poverty, then it’s a miserable
failure because it does nothing to
address teh root causes of pover-
ty.”

--Sarah Allen ‘08

“I thought he offered a great plan if you
are a middle class, well-educated American
who knows how to manage money. But if the
intention is to solve the problem of poverty,
then it’s a miserable failure because it does
nothing to address the root causes of pover-
ty,” Allen said. “What he’s trying to do is to
give American society a way to deny all
responsibility for poverty.”

Allen felt that Murray did not address sev-
eral key issues to the perpetuation of pover-
ty, issues such as the current state of our edu-
cation system, the organization of cities and
the organization of the economic system.

Murray has worked at the American
Enterprise Institute since 1990. He received
a B.A. in history from Harvard University
and a Ph.D. in political science from the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Calling all Freshmen and
Sophomore
Economics Majors, and

anyone interested in
BUSINESS!

The Davidsonian is currently
looking for
help with Circulation, Advertising
and Business.
All three of these positions are

PAID!

Email
sabogue@davidson.edu

for more information.

