16

SPORTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 12, 2006

Men’s tennis loses two; women win three more

By Erik SWANSON
Staff Writer

Nearing the conclusion of the regular season, the
men’s and women’s tennis teams played several con-
ference matches in the last week, experiencing oppo-
site results.

The men dropped matches to Furman and Elon, two
of the top three teams in the conference, while: the
women won all three of their matches against Elon,
UNC-Greensboro and Wofford to remain undefeated in
Southern Conference action.

“We also want to thank all the fans for their
support at the home matches this season. The
crowd support has been great all year, and we
really appreciate it.”

--Sccott Briggs,
Assistant Men's Tennis Coach

Last Wednesday’s match against Furman was an
emotional one for the men’s team, as the seniors played
their final match at home and coach Jeff Frank coached
his final home match after 34 years roaming the lines
of Covington Courts. Add a match against the team’s
biggest rival, Furman, to the other distractions, and the
day proved difficult for the men.

An easy win by Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan
Jaffee ’09 at the top doubles spot provided early hope
for the Wildcats, but the team was unable to win the

other two doubles matches, giving Furman the early 1-
0 lead.

Furman maintained the advantage in singles, win-
ning the first set in all six matches and never looking
back, defeating Davidson 7-0.

“It was an emotional match for us, and there were a
lot of things going on off the court against Furman,”
said assistant coach Scott Briggs. “We had one of our
better outings this season in doubles, but came up
short. Furman is'a good team, very solid throughout
the lineup, and they were too tough for us on that day.

“We also want to thank all the fans for their support
at the home matches this season,” Briggs continued.
“The crowd support has been great all year, and we
really appreciate it.”

A Saturday match against Appalachian State
University was postponed, leaving the men with only
one more match for the week on the road on Sunday
against a much-improved Elon team.

The doubles competition was tight throughout, with
each match decided by only one break. Co-captain Joe
Cheaney ’06 and Phillip Compeau ’08 grinded their
way to a tough victory at number two, but Elon man-
aged to win two out of the three matches for the early
1-0 lead.

Davidson was unable to fare any better in singles, as
Elon won in straight sets in four of the six matches.
Scott Myers ’09 fell in three sets for the "Cats at num-
ber five, while Matt Hartman ’08 earned the Wildcats’

See Tennis, page 14 the men’s tennis team lost to Furman 7-0.

Lax scores wins against Lafayette and Howard

With two wins against Howard and Lafayette, the Lacrosse

team has improved to 8-5.

Player of the Week

Megal Atias ‘o8

Track
Hometown: Maccabim-Reut, Israel
Major: Undeclared

By SuZIE ECKL

Staff Writer

In a high-scoring game last Friday, the Wildcats defeat-

‘With her program-best time of 10:09.22 in the 3000 meters,

Atias took home fourth place honors last Saturday. Her per- |

formance led the women's track and field team, who were |
competing in the Charlotte Invitational.

ed visiting Howard 22-14 and then followed with anoth-
er, tighter win against the Leopards of Lafayette on
Sunday, defeating them 9-6.

Against Howard, Eloise Grose ’06 put in seven goals
off of her stick, a career high. Five of Davidson’s first six
goals were Grose’s, the first coming within the first
minute of play and four more following before eight min-
utes had passed from the clock.

“My teammates did a great job setting me up for each
one of those goals. I simply finished what they started,”
said Grose.

Davidson outshot and outscored Howard in the first
half, but the same was not true of the second. Down 13-3
at the start of the second period, Howard put in the first
three goals to cut Davidson’s lead down to 13-6. The
Bison further closed in on Davidson, bringing to score to
15-9 with twenty minutes remaining.

In the second, Howard outshot Davidson 20-15 and
also scored 11 goals to Davidson’s nine. Their efforts
were too little too late, however, as Davidson’s offense
had already done its damage.

Leslie Smith ’06 and Laura Johnson ’08 shared time in
goal, making seven and three saves, respectively.

“After the two losses last weekend the team came
together and refocused,” said Smith. “As a unit we
worked even harder at practice to fix our mistakes from
the Ohio games and to push each other even more to take
our play to the next level.”

Emily Diefendorf ’08 connected for five goals and an
assist, while Alex Eagan ’07 led the team in the assists
category with four on the night. Of Howard’s 14 goals, all

but one was unassisted.

“What stood out most was that we were playing as a
unit. Our communication on both offense and defense
was great and we capitalized on our opportunities,” said
Grose.

Davidson continued its winning ways at a neutral site
two days later against Lafayette. Grose again got the first
goal of the game, and Eagan and Missy Gilbert ’06 con-
tributed a couple more to put Davidson up 3-0.

“Our team is so strong and has so much integrity, we
just needed to step back and re-evaluate how we had
played and what we needed to do to fix it, and then we
went back at it 110 percent,” said Smith.

The Wildcats entered the break in the lead 6-2, but
Lafayette pressured in the second and, with four consecu-
tive goals, found itself down only one goal with over 22
minutes remaining.

Callie Seymour ’09 and Becky Horton ’09 each scored
a goal, the last two on the evening, and pulled the
Wildcats out of a tight situation.

The Wildcats can thank their goalkeeper Smith for their
tally in the win column. Despite being outshot 41-21,
Davidson managed a win in large part due to Smith’s
record-breaking 25-save night. She played all 60 minutes,
and she recorded her seventh win of the season.

“My 25 saves was not an individual effort, it was a col-
lective defensive effort,” said Smith. “I had an amazing
defense in front of me that shut down a lot of shots, and
the shots it did let off were more contained. I was in the
zone, and I was seeing the ball well, but mainly I was just
playing for every person on that field with Davidson on
their shirt.”

Davidson’s record is now 8-5 on the season. They look
for their ninth win at home against Virginia Tech on
Wednesday at 4 p.m.

PLAY OF THE WEEK.

Unbeatable defense leads lacrosse to 9-6 win

Despite being outshot 41-21, the Wildcats were able to

| hold off a strong Lafayette squad last Sunday en route to

| a 9-6 decision. Davidson's defense was led by goalkeeper

Leslie Smith '06, who had a record-breaking 25 saves in
the contest.

