16

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
May 3, —

Men’s track has. best finish ever at SoCon Tourney

By MEGHAN Curtiss & SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writers

The men and women’s track and field
teams traveled to Statesboro, Ga., to compete
in the Southern Conference Outdoor Track
Championship this weekend. Both teams
competed admirably, setting eight school
records in the process. The women finished
eighth and the men came in third overall.

In the women’s competition, Appalachian
State, who was leading during the first day,
held onto their lead and took the champi-
onship spot. For the Wildcats, there were
nine top-eight finishes, earning them points
in different events.

Emily King ’09 ran a 38:04.10 in the
women’s 10K, capturing both the 10K title
and a school record. She was deemed
Freshman Runner of the Year.

Jessica Chasen ’07 placed fourth in the
400-meter race, with a time of 58.08. With
this time Chasen beat the school record
which she had set in the preliminaries of this
race. Co-captain Allie Martin ’06 also placed
fourth in her event, the 1500-meter, with a
time of 4:36.84, which set another Davidson
record. Martin also performed well in the
800 meters, where she finished seventh.

Caroline Sanker ’09 captured another
school record in the 5000-meter race, with a
time of 17:45.13, giving her fifth place in the
race. Her classmate Kennesia Martin 09 fin-
ished seventh in the triple jump, jumping 37’
7.25” to break another school record.

Other top-eight finishes came from
Katurri Phillips 08, who finished seventh in

Douglas Noreen ’07 runs in the SoCon Championship meet.

the 200 meters. Colleen McKown ’08 ran to
an eighth place finish in the 800-meters. A
school record was recorded by the 400-meter
relay team of Chasen, Phillips, Martin and
Kim Colley ’09.

“Training with both coach [Ray] Brewer
and coach Jen Straub, and having awesome,
motivated teammates to train with and be
around” was very important in the prepara-
tion for the meet, said McKown. “Also,
being at conference was a great experience
because everyone, both guys and girls, ran so
well.”

The runners and throwers on the men’s
side met just as much success as the women.
The Southern Conference honored the men’s

team by naming head coach Gary Andrew
Co-Coach of the Year after he led his team to
its best finish ever in Davidson history. He
shares the title with Danny Williamson of
Western Carolina. A highlight of the week-
end was the 4x400-meter relay team of co-
captain John Bialas ’07, co-captain David
Ritchie ’07, Douglas Noreen ’07 and JinHan
Justin Song ’09 who broke the school record,
crossing the line in 3:18.48. This time was
good enough to get the team a fourth place
finish in the race.

Other top finishers on the track included
Noreen’s in the 1500-meter and 800-meter
races. Noreen finished second in the 1500-
meter in a time of 3:58.68, and fourth in the

800-meter with a time of 1:54.56. Both times
constituted personal bests for the junior. /

Co-captain Jonathan Baker ’06 captured
first place for the Wildcats in. the 10,000-
meter race and then crossed the line fourth in
the 5000-meters with a time of 14:58.77.
Ritchie finished fourth in the 400-mteter hur-
dles with a personal best time of 53.05.

On the field, the men did equally as well.
Jim Walter ’07 captured a school record and
first place in the meet with his discus throw
of 153’07”, beating the old school record by
almost five feet. Will Funderburg ’09 threw
his way to second in the shot put with a sea-
son best throw of 48’00”, making it a person-
al best. Funderburg also captured sixth in the
discus, throwing it 140’10”.

The men will travel to Clemson, S.C., on
Saturday to compete in the Orange and
Purple Classic while the women participate
in the Duke Twilight in Durham. They will
conclude their season three weeks later at the
NCAA East Outdoor Regionals. Both teams
are hopeful that the spring will end with
more records being broken and good finish-
es at their final events.

“The addition of coach Ray Brewer to the
coaching staff really improved the program a
lot,” said McKown of the season. “It made
the overall track program a lot more intense.
Also, last year almost all of our lot distance
girls were injured. We had a lot more healthy
people this season, so that.also made a big
difference.

“I really loved this season—it was amaz-
ing to be around so many really fun and real-
ly committed people.”

‘Cats lose two of three vs. Western, beat Gardner Webb

KEVIN BIRNEY & SUZIE ECKL
Staff Writers

The baseball team struggled again last weekend, los-
ing two and winning one against host Western Carolina.
Although Saturday resulted in a 12-6 triumph, the ’Cats
couldn’t bounce back from Friday’s 0-6 loss and
dropped their third matchup 5-3 on Sunday. Coming
back from Western Carolina, the team’s record now
stands at 16-27 overall and 5-16 in the SoCon.

Because of the postponement against Duke on
Wednesday, action began on Friday against Western
Carolina. The team looked sluggish on offense, register-
ing no runs and only three hits. Ronnie Shore ’06,
Gregory Zage ’07 and Alden Crissey ’07 were the only
’Cats to get hits. On the mound, Rob Wilson ’07 pitched
well, allowing only three earned runs through 6.2
innings. Western Carolina scored the other three runs on
the four errors the "Cats committed.

Scoring began for the Catamounts in the second
inning when a sacrifice fly sent in a runner. Western
Carolina tacked on two more runs in the third, and their
defense cut off Davidson’s chances for evening the
score.

Things were looking up for Davidson on Saturday,

however, as they battled for a come-from---behind win.

The team took some knocks early, allowing three runs
in the first inning, but they rebounded with three of their
own in the second and one more in the third to take a 4-

Emily King ‘o9
Women’s Track
Hometown: Honolulu, Ha.
Major: Undeclared

King was named the Freshman Runner of the Year on
Saturday at the SoCon Outdoor Track Championship. She
_earned herself the school record in the 10k, crossing the
finish line in first place at the meet,

3 lead.

Chase FitzPatrick ’?09 made the most of a rare start,
hitting a home run and leading the way offensively with
a career-high four RBI. It was FitzPatrick’s fourth start
of the season.

Davidson showed great offensive momentum, with &

14 hits and eight different players scoring. Crissey
added three hits and two RBI, and Wilson. went 4-for-5
with two runs scored.

Wilson said afterwards, “I just got good pitches to hit
and put good swings on them. The team as a whole real-
ly picked it up on Saturday though after struggling some
on Friday night.”

Blake Osborn ’07 got the win for the ’Cats, going five
innings and allowing only three earned runs. The team
combined for 12 runs, a dramatic improvement over the
previous day. The 12-6 win evened the series heading
into Sunday.

The third game was closer than the first two but
unfortunately resulted in a 5-3 loss for the ’Cats.
Davidson took a 2-0 lead heading into the bottom of the
third, but the Catamounts answered with two of their
own. Western Carolina then scored three more in the

next three innings, which proved to be all they would rte ag

need.

Alex Entrekin ’06 paced Davidson offensively, going
3-for-4 with an RBI. Shore also did well in the leadoff
spot, scoring two of the ’Cats’ three runs. Overall,

See Baseball, 10

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Men’s 4x400 relay in the record books at
SoCon Championships

With a time of 3:18.48, John Bialas ‘07, David Ritchie ‘07
(see left), Douglass Noreen ‘o7 and JinHan Justin Song ‘o9
broke Davidson’s 4x400 relay record by less than three
tenths of a second. : They finished in fourth place at the

SoCon Championship.

