THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

The Cunningham Fine Arts Building will be renovated in the next few years.

Campaign to renovate
four campus buildings

By KATIE PFEIFFER
Senior Staff Writer

The “Let Learning Be Cherished” cam-
paign involves plans to bring about four
major construction projects: Cunningham
Fine Arts Building, E.H. Little Library,
Historic Campus and Martin Science
Building.

The $272 million project is intended to be
near completion after having undertaken
these projects.

“All four of these projects are at a step
one,” Director of the Physical Plant David
Holthouser said. “Further development of
each piece, coupled with answers to funding

for each, will eventually yield a sequence of

execution.” ; ;

After having begun speculation on reno-
vating the Cunningham Fine Arts building,
the college must evaluate the level of need
for multiple renovations on campus, as well
as the timeline for construction.

The Cunningham renovation will employ
the same architectural firm that created the
design for the Duke Family Performance
Hall and assisted with the Music
Department’s transition to Sloan Music
Building. The firm’s experience working
with Davidson creates the advantage of
knowing the desired design type.

“Because of their familiarity and past
work this will pretty quickly move to a con-
cept drawing,” Holthouser said.

Whereas the Cunningham building used to
contain the Theater, Music and Art depart-
ments, the fairly recent construction of the
Belk Visual Arts Center and Sloan have left
only the Theater department in need of more

space and better facilities.

The building of Duke Performance Hall in
2002 also alleviated some stress on the
department.

Recommended changes in E.H. Little
Library will include relocating study areas,
creating a new aesthetic design, and updating
furniture and use of space.

The Chemistry department has begun to
search for compatible architectural firms for
changes to Martin Science Building.

The first outline that the firm will give the
college is supposed to designate the changes
that will be made to labs, offices and class-
rooms.

As for Historic Campus, Davidson is in
the process of outlining preservation strate-
gies and subjects.

The sequence of development for the four
construction projects is based on specifying
what type of construction is needed based on
a specific space, a budget outline,
sources/extent of funding, an architectural
design and a re-evaluation of price based on
that design.

The process is a long one, with many of
the new renovations on campus in the past
few years having been initiated five to 10
years earlier.

Plans for the Duke dormitory and Dean
Rusk center renovation began materializing
in 2002, which will result in a finished prod-
uct in 2007.

Chambers building renovations began in
1997 and were completed in 2003.

Based on the precedent set by previous .

projects, the four remaining projects can be
expected to be staggered throughout the next
several years.

I Sg
AXTt L&I

@nare.

xr V
& So os

All Davidson College Professors, English Majors, and Alums
wanting to get back to North Carolina!

We have numerous businesses for sale in the greater Davidson
College area, such as an upscale tanning salon, a coffee shop,
a franchise truck accessories store, and more.

A perfect business for a Davidsonian, however, is a book store
with the following features:
-Well-established for over 13 years
-Large inventory of used books (over 40,000!)
-Increasing sales volume over the internet
-Large repeat customer base
- Some seller financing avaliable

For more information call CFC, Inc. at
704-650-6630

RLO, from page 4

In this year’s current senior class, 80 peo-
ple live off campus and over 20 seniors live
in singles in Tomlinson and Duke.

Next year, there will also be 38 spaces in
college-owned off campus houses and 32
spaces in the new town homes.

Rising senior Elizabeth Burkholder ’07 is

“Living in senior apartments is
something I’ve looked forward to
for three years. Senior year is all
about bonding with your class
and missing that just because I
have a bad lottery number is a
disappointment. I realize there is
only so much RLO can do, but
I’ve had trouble with housing
after coming back from abroad
this year, and I feel like they
could do more to avoid these
types of situations.”

--Elizabeth Burkholder ‘07

frustrated that she might not get to live in
Martin Court.

“Living in senior apartments is something
I’ve looked forward to for three years,”
Burkholder said. “Senior year is all about
bonding with your class and missing that just
because I have a bad lottery number is a dis-
appointment. I realize there is only so much
RLO can do, but I’ve had trouble with hous-
ing after coming back from abroad this year
and I feel like they could do more to avoid
these types of situations,.”

After looking at the numbers, Marsicano
said seniors do not necessarily need to worry

WEDNESDAY, MArRcH 15, 2006 5

about not getting their desired housing.

“T think the people who are really going to
get squeezed in housing next year are sopho-
mores, not seniors,” Marsicano said.

She cites the reduced availability of sin-
gles and gives sophomores slim chances of
getting singles.

Marsicano urged students to consider the
new town homes. While they have double
rooms, they will be brand new and will have
two-and-a-half baths and a large amount of
parking. Marsicano fears students think they
are farther away than they really are. They
will be accessible off Ridge Road, by the
intramural fields.

Once the renovations to Duke are com-
plete, RLO will not use college-owned off
campus housing for students. Instead, the
town homes will be sold to faculty and staff.

Duke currently accommodates 63 stu-
dents, but after construction, the dorm will
provide rooms for 100 students.

After the large rising senior class gradu-
ates, housing will be in better shape.

“RLO still has goals of improving the
quality of housing,” Marsicano said.

There are also several new developments
regarding partnerships between RLO and
departments on campus to increase services
in residence halls.

Next year, the laundry will provide pick-
up and drop-off service to college-owned
houses and town homes.

On Mondays and Thursdays, students can
leave dirty laundry on their porches and a
van from the laundry service will pick it up
and drop it off once it is clean.

The ResNet office will also be relocating
to the third floor of Tomlinson.

The new location will be more central to
students. Information Technology Services
(ITS) will also be installing computers in the
lounges of Knox, Irwin and Akers.

Do you know
how your senator voted
on the renewal of
the Patriot Act?

THINK ABOUT IT.

TALK ABOUT IT.

Just Peace
Wednesdays 4:30
Union reom 313

