THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006 11

Three seniors lead way to ’Cats’ SoCon title

By WILL BRYAN
Senior Staff Writer

The 2005-2006 men’s basketball season has been one of
uncertainty. How does a team that nearly beats Big East
powerhouse Syracuse also lose to lowly Wofford?

Davidson showed flashes of brilliance as it tore apart the
Missouri Tigers and Southern Conference leaders Georgia
Southern and Elon in Belk Arena. For the Wildcats, the
Southern Conference tournament looked to be the equalizer.

Coming in as a three-seed, the attitude was widespread
that the success or failure of the season would be played out
in a three-day stretch in Charleston, S.C.

Although day one of the tournament did not involve the
Wildcats, its happenings proved helpful. In a conference that
had been up and down all season, two of the first three games
were upsets, eliminating three opponents that had defeated
Davidson; while advancing The Citadel, Appalachian State,
and UNC-Greensboro, all of whom Davidson had shown
mastery over in the regular season.

With The Citadel’s upset of Furman, they won their third
straight game in a row and earned a spot with the Wildcats in
Friday’s nightcap.

Day two of the tournament proved to be a similar story as
Georgia Southern and College of Charleston were upset and
Elon barely escaped in an overtime thriller. By the time
Davidson tipped off against The Citadel, only two favored
teams had secured victories, and in the first 15 minutes, The
Citadel tried to keep it that way.

Sparked by the hot shooting of J’Mel Everhart and Dante
Terry, the Bulldogs hit 14 out of their first 19 shots en route
to a 37-18 lead with just over six minutes remaining in the
first half. But, as they had done all season long, the Wildcats
clawed back to take the momentum into the locker room on
a Jason Morton ’06 layup.

“We make it a point of emphasis to get the ‘Big Mo’ right
before the half,” said coach Bob McKillop. “Whether you
are up seven or down seven, you want to be able to have con-
fidence going into the locker room.”

Davidson had gone on a 15-3 run to end the half that was
sparked by several Ian Johnson ’06 layups and a Matt
McKillop ’06 three-pointer. For McKillop, it was just the
beginning.

“At halftime, Kenny [Grant ’06] told me that I needed to
take some more shots and start leading this team,” said
McKillop. “I realized what this game meant, and just started
shooting.”

After halftime, McKillop began releasing as soon as he
caught the ball, not submitting to his usual hesitation. He tied
the game for the first time with 14:42 remaining, then gave
the Wildcats the lead just a minute later with another three-

pointer. Using a four-guard lineup, Davidson closed out on
the Bulldog shooters in the second half and held them to just
12 field goals.

McKillopinished with 21 points, 18 of which came in the
second half, and five three-pointers overall. Davidson also
dominated the Bulldogs on the glass, 43-19. With the 79-73
win over the Bulldogs, Davidson earned a spot against the
second-seeded North Division champs, Elon.

The last time that Davidson had played Elon, Ian Johnson
’06 had scored 18 points, leading Davidson’s frontcourt to 34
points in the paint. In the semifinals of the conference tour-
nament, Elon decided to take away Johnson’s inside game. It
seems they forgot about his outside game. The Wildcats hit
eight three-pointers in the first half, half of which came from
the Davidson center.

“We have some offensive sets that are designed to get Ian
those open looks,” said coach McKillop. “He is unique for a
tall guy in that he has such a quick release. He shoots like a
guard.”

Up seven at the half, Davidson maintained its lead
throughout the second half due to strong defense on Elon’s
Chris Chalko and aggressive rebounding by Thomas Sander
’08. Sander finished with a game-high 11 rebounds, leading
his team to another formidable rebounding margin of 39-23.

Down by just four with 43 seconds remaining, Chalko
missed a three-pointer and Sander hauled in the rebound.
Two Brendan Winters ’06 free-throws sealed the 65-58 win
for the Wildcats, and a berth in the title game against the
defending-champion UT-Chattanooga Mocs.

Sunday, March 5, 2006, was a day that Davidson fans will
remember for a long time. After a come-from-behind victory
over The Citadel and a close game vs. Elon, Davidson
seemed poised to dominate. With a three-pointer by Winters,
the ’Cats took a 3-2 lead, and never looked back.

In the first half, Chattanooga seemed unable to buy a bas-
ket as they shot 9-36. Davidson, on the other hand, was find-
ing baskets inside and outside. The Wildcats hit five threes
and led by 15 at intermission.

The first play of the second half marked the beginning of
the end for the Mocs: Sander found a cutting Winters who hit
the layup and was fouled, extending the Davidson lead to 18
at 38-20.

Winters went on to finish with a career-high 33 points, as
the Wildcats ran over a demoralized Chattanooga squad.

“We aren’t a shooting team,” said Chattanooga coach John
Shulman. “We were deluding ourselves by shooting so well
in this tournament, and I think we realized who we were
today.”

Dominating the Mocs on the boards and on the scoreboard,
Davidson demonstrated to a national audience with its 80-55

victory that the NCAA tournament needs to watch out;.

Know your enemy: a close look

By WILSON McCrory
Sports Editor Emeritus

Which NCAA Division I men’s basketball team fits the
following description?

-Returned five of its top six scorers from a season ago,
including senior-laden line-up.

-Rides All-Conference big man inside.

-Shoots just over 37 percent from behind the arc.

-Outscores its opponents by about 10 points per game.

-Played one of the nation’s top non-conference schedules,
including a win over St. Joseph’s.

-Was held out of NCAA play a year ago despite eclipsing
20 victories.

-Last played in the NCAA tournament in 2002, where their
season ended in Albuquerque, N.M. —

If you answered Davidson, you’d be correct on all counts.
Amazingly enough, however, Ohio State, Davidson’s first-
round opponent this Friday in the NCAA tournament, also
fits the bill. The Buckeyes entered the season with big-time
aspirations, as many expected the senior-laden roster to lead
the Buckeyes back to the NCAA tournament after a three-
season absence. Ironically, the last time these two teams
played each other was in the 2002 NCAA tournament, when
Davidson nearly pulled off the upset in a 69-64 loss.

Ohio State finished 20-12 in the 2004-05 season, including
a last-second win over top-ranked Illinois in the final week
of the regular season, but the Buckeyes declared themselves
ineligible for postseason play after discovering recruiting
violations under former head coach Jim O’Brien.

Despite high expectations entering the new year, no one
predicted the Buckeyes would claim the outright regular sea-
son Big Ten Championship over powerhouses such as
Indiana, Michigan State, Illinois and Iowa. They were a per-
fect 12-0 in their non-conference slate, however, and

Terence Dials Is the guy the ’Cats need to stop.

marched through the country’s top-ranked conference to a
12-4 mark in Big Ten play. The Buckeyes, like the Wildcats,
rely on a balanced inside-outside combination, highlighted
by solid three-point shooting and a workhorse inside. Last
year the Buckeyes struggled to find consistency because of
their reliance on the three but have been remarkably consis-
tent from long range this season and used their accuracy to
open up room for big man Terence Dials on the interior.
Dials, a 6’9” senior who averaged 15.2 points and eight
rebounds per game, earned Big Ten Player of the Year. He is
the unquestioned heart of the Buckeyes, providing the force
on both ends of the court. Dials is the only Buckeye who can
keep teams honest on the inside, and he opens up the long-
range shot Ohio State needs to thrive. Defensively, he aver-

Brendan Winters ’06, seen here in a game earlier this
year, shot 13-21 from the field in the SoCon Final.

there’s a new upset-minded team ready to make some noise.

As the final buzzer sounded, students hugged their friends,
wives hugged their husbands, and sons found their fathers.

“My dad has been the most influential person in my life,”
said Winters. “For him to see my dreams come true was a
special moment for both of us.”

Twenty-eight members of the McKillop family also came
to the game.

“Did you see all those kids with the painted faces?” asked
coach McKillop. “They look up to Matt as their cousin, and
as their hero. He has given them an experience to cherish for-
ever.”

The Wildcats are a No. 15 seed and will play Ohio State in
Dayton, Oh. on Friday at 12:15 p.m. The game will be tele-
vised in the 900 Room.

at the Buckeyes

ages less than one block per game and may allow Davidson
to work the ball inside for scoring chances.

Senior point guard Jamar Butler has proved reliable for the
Buckeyes, with 9.9 points per game and 4.6 assists. Butler is
a great shooter, nailing over 42 percent from long range and
83 percent from the charity stripe, and he also boasts a gaudy
2.7 assist-to-turnover ratio. He will prove a tough challenge
for Davidson guards Kenny Grant ’06 and Jason Richards
’08, who must keep him out of the lane, where he makes the
Buckeyes an even more dangerous team.

Former JuCo transfer Je’ Kel Foster increased his offensive
production by five points in his senior season with the
Buckeyes while making more than 41 percent of his three-
point attempts. He also logged the most minutes on the
Buckeyes and is the second-leading scorer behind Dials.

J.J. Sullinger, a 6’5” Arkansas transfer, has been consistent
in his time in Columbus, averaging nearly 10 points per con-
test in each of his three seasons there. While Sullinger is a
great shooter from outside, he more importantly adds size to
the Buckeye team, averaging nearly seven rebounds this
year. He will be a perfect match-up for Davidson guard
Brendan Winters ’06, as both players like to take the ball
inside as a part of their offensive repertoire.

Matt Sylvester is best known for his long-range heroics
against Illinois a year ago, but he also must carry at least
some of the load inside for a Buckeye team that is very thin
in the frontcourt.

Sylvester’s offensive production fell off slightly from a
year ago, and he surprisingly brings down less than three
rebounds per game, but Ohio State will look for him to pro-
vide more frontcourt support, especially when Dials is on the
bench. Three Buckeyes—Foster, Sullinger and Butler—
shoot better than 40 percent from beyond the arc.

If Davidson can keep its head in the second half, it can
capitalize on the weaknesses of the Ohio St. roster.
