THE DAVIDSONIAN

School Honor Code
promotes hypocrisy

I remember signing the Honor
Code last year with all of my
classmates.

We dressed up in sophisticated
suits and Dr. Epes gave a speech
about the integrity of the
“untouchable” code.

He made lofty claims, remind-
ing us that by signing our names
on an official looking piece of
paper, the Honor Code bound us
to an honest way of life.

So far, I have lost my bike,
backpack and ATM card.

As a result, I have secured my dorm room with an intri-
cate lock that works through my desktop camera, which is
set up on top of my laptop.

It is disappointing that I cannot trust everyone here at
Davidson, even after the sacred Honor Code proclamation.

However, I am starting to think that I am being overly
naive about the reality not only here at Davidson ‘but
throughout the world.

Maybe we, Davidson College students, are not so differ-
ent from other people our age. Is the institution promoting
a false sense of moral superiority by creating what from my
experience is an ineffective Honor Code system and mar-
keting it as infallible?

Davidson College continues to brag about its campus’s
“honest” reputation and pristine Honor Code system.
Campus spokespeople stick to their claim that Davidson
students absolutely do not steal or cheat.

As a result, this institution has commercialized and pro-
moted itself largely on the basis of its Honor Code system,
regardless of the actual power and utility of the system.

It uses these not-so-true claims to indicate its superior
honesty and integrity over other colleges who do not have
such a code.

But this hypocrisy, condemnable as it is, is not exclusive
to Davidson’s campus. Hypocrisy exists on a national level
and I’ve found America to be full of it.

Declaring a war on Iraq and putting hundreds of thou-
sands soldiers in danger with no clear reason does not rep-
resent a tentative at world peace or a form of justice as
President Bush and his cabinet argue.

Instead, it endangers Americans and violates the rights of
Iraqis.

Yet there has been no talk of impeachment for these
crimes. Are Americans to believe that having sex with a
secretary is worse than killing thousands of young
American soldiers for nothing?

That is the hypocritical lesson of American politics in the
last twelve years. But the fault of hypocrisy does not lie
solely with the President.

The crime touches almost all political officials. American
politicians do not want to send their children to war, yet
they remain in favor of war in Iraq.

Essential, I have found that Americans like to talk about
their moral standards. When it comes to actions, it’s a whole
other ball game.

Let’s not forget, this is the society that paid 900 billion
dollars to the pornography industry in 2002.

Hypocrisy also exists on an individual level.

Individuals, including myself, prove to be most hypocrit-
ical when their personal successes and comforts in the
world are at risk.

Additionally, the problem is further aggravated by the
hypocritical systems surrounding us in America.

The way to eliminate these hypocritical behaviors and
systems is to clearly differentiate between social norms and
an individual’s moral standards, which is a tool that helps
an individual to be honest to himself and therefore an hon-
est and productive member of society.

However, due to our self-centered nature, skewed moral
“status quo” created by sensational and violent media, and
the current hypocritical political system, it is
almostcompletely impossible for an individual to be com-
pletely honest to himself.

People are prone to follow more appealing incentives,

just joshing

JOSHUA CHO]

blinded by the promises of lucrative capitalist success that.

run the United States of America.

But,there is hope. We can fight against this greed and
hypocrisy by taking the time to get to know ourselves, our
true morals, and our true consciences.

Maybe this way the Davidson Honor Code will return to. -

its deserved reputation of a sacred document protecting the
true integrity of this time-honored institution.

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 1, 2006 = 11

Campus benefits from One in Four

By SAM Horcukiss
_. Guest Columnist

“We are“hot going to sit up here and tell you that rape is
bad; that’s just common sense. We are here to inform you
on how to help a sexual assault survivor,” said the men of
One in Four, a part of the National Organization of Men’s
Outreach for Rape Education (NO MORE).

Since last August, Matt, Chris, Grant and Daniel have
traveled the country in their RV, educating men on college
campuses how to help women who have survived sexual
assault, atd will continue to do so until this June.

Their main program, entitled “How to Help a Sexual
Assault Survivor: What Men Can Do” helps men to build
victim empathy, teaches men how to help women recover
from rape and challenges men to change their own behav-
ior and help to influence others.

Their presentation includes a short film about a police
officer who is raped while he is on patrol, and how he
comes to terms with it, as well as multiple statistics.

The group gets their name from the statistic that one in
four college women have survived rape or attempted rape
since their fourteenth birthday.

At the end of the program, the men reveal an even more
troubling statistic: 246,000 women in the year 2000 sur-
vived sexual assault and rape, which computes to about 28
women every hour.

“I’m so happy that One in Four visited our campus,” said
Nikki Linn ’07, one of-the five Health Advisors. “They
were a great group of guys on a meaningful mission to help
other men understand how it feels to be raped and how they
can help their victims.”

One in Four completed two programs while they were on
campus, one for men and one for women.

While the program for men focused on how to help sex-
ual assault survivors, the program for women focused on
how Davidson could deal with its own problems surround-
ing sexual assault.

“They brought a real spirit to their mission,” said Libby .
Hubbard ’08, head of the First Responders, a group that
played a large role in getting “One in Four” to come to
Davidson. “Our campus could use more of that passion, and
I hope we see some of it in Davidson students in the com-
ing months.”

The group also addressed the faculty and administration
on things they could do as well.

“They engaged faculty, staff, male students, and female
students in important and interesting conversations,” said
Kathy Bray-Merrell, Associate Dean of Students. “Their
presentation was right on target.”

Since the group members had recently graduated from
college, many Davidson men and women felt that it was
easy to relate to them and really listen to what they were
saying.

“Being graduates of the class of 2005, they were able to
set just the right tone and filled an unexpressed need on
campus for more understanding surrounding the tough and
complicated issue of sexual assault and rape,” said Health
Educator Georgia Ringle, who played an integral role in
getting the group to come to Davidson.

Many were sad to see the group go, including myself, but
it showed us the importance of having such a group on cam-
pus.

Much of the conversation last Tuesday focused on how
Davidson could learn even more about this sensitive issue.

“I know that many students were sorry to see them leave
but I also know that we have many Davidson men of equal
caliber who could fill their shoes,” said Ringle. “The time
has come to make themselves known.”

Can Davidson rise to the challenge of creating their own
One in Four group?

Only time will tell.

Sam Hotchkiss is a sophomore math and French double
major from Alexandria, Va. Contact him at
sahotchkiss@davidson.edu

Immigration ‘problem’ questioned

Over the past 12 years,
Washington has devoted $20
billion to controlling the United
States’ 2,000-mile border with
Mexico.

But, as is often the case with
our government’s quixotic
attempts, at regulation, this
investment has produced lack-
| luster dividends.

The Center for Immigration
Studies reported in December
that there are roughly 9.7 mil-
lion illegal immigrants in the
country.

Enter The Minuteman Project.

Describing itself as “‘a call to bring national. awareness

to the decades-long careless disregard of effective U.S.
immigration law enforcement,” The Minuteman Project’s
supporters look for suspicious activity along the border
and report transgressors to the U.S. Border Patrol.

Instantiating the general tendency of anti-immigration
forces to portray illegal immigrants as nothing short of

vermin, the Minutemen warn us of the peril of complacen-
cy as America is “devoured and plundered by the menace
of tens of millions of invading illegal aliens.”

But immigrants, illegal or not, are hardly the devastating
-locusts of the imaginations of these preening vigilantes.

The empirical evidence suggests that immigrants actual-

ly contribute more than they take.

A nationwide study conducted by the U.S. Bureau of
Labor Statistics found that 12.8% of immigrants received
welfare benefits; for the overall population, the figure was

ASHISH GEORGI

. 13.9%.

More recently, researchers at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill found that Hispanics pumped $9.2
billion into the state economy, while Raleigh only had to
pay $61 million for the schools, health care and prisons
demanded by the population increase.

Immigrants also augment consumer demand, which
translates into a stronger middle class. Immigration is a
boon to the growth of the Hispanic and Asian-American

_ consumer markets, which accounted for almost 12 percent

of the U.S.’s 2004 purchasing power.

The Labor Department projects that the economy will
add 7.7 million low-skill, low-wage jobs between 2000
and 2010.

The disdain of native-born Americans for such ‘jobs
combined with the propensity of many of the 600,000

legal immigrants who enter the U.S. each year to take high-
er-paying jobs will produce a continued niche for illegal
workers.

With this economic surge will come many difficulties,
only some of which we can now foresee.

One problem, ironically, may be the similarities the immi-
grants share with one another.

Half of all the legal immigrants entering the United States
today come from Latin America. And of course, many more
come illegally.

Within their ethnic communities in the American
Southwest, many of these immigrants will already have a
common cultural currency, namely: language, that could
weaken the incentive to assimilate.

One of the most pessimistic warnings comes from Samuel
Huntington, a professor of government at Harvard, who
writes gloomily “Mexican immigration is leading toward
the demographic reconquista of areas Americans took from

The antidote is more sympathy

in centers of assimilation like

schools, places of employment
and churches.

Mexico by force in the 1830s and 1840s.”

But it need not be so.

If America is to be balkanized, the process will manifest
itself in a vicious cycle: immigrants will arrive and
encounter hostility, leading them to ensconce themselves
among other immigrants, which in turn will produce further
hostility from native-born Americans and disabuse the next
wave of newcomers of the idea of trying to enter broader
communities.

The antidote is more sympathy in centers of assimilation
like schools, places of employment, and churches. To be
sure, this does not mean we should elevate Spanish to a sort
of de facto second official language or promote an expan-
sive multiculturalism.

But it does mean, at the very least, eschewing the callous
chest-thumping of the Minutemen.

Ashish Geroge is a junior philosophy major from
Greensboro, NC. Contact him at
asgeorge@davidson.edu.
