IVINC

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 8, 2006

The cast of the Vagina Monologues kicks back after a hard day’s work.

The vaginas are coming!

By SARAH ROBINSON

Arts & Living Editor Emeritus

Thirty-five women and one man have
combined talents to produce an original ver-
sion of Eve Ensler’s provocative play “The
Vagina Monologues,” which premieres this
Friday in the Duke Family Performance
Hall.

“The Vagina Monolgues” is part of the V-
day campaign, an awareness event to stop
violence against women and girls. Last year
was the first time students performed the
show on campus.

To preview the show, I attended a rehears-
al of the production last Sunday. I was imme-
diately struck by the relaxed atmosphere and
sense of camaraderie among the cast, which
made me excited to see what they had in
store for their production of Ensler’s work.

The play features a combination of upbeat
and heartrending stories. Some of the pieces
involve full cast participation, such as the
defiant “My Short Skirt,” whereas others
feature only one or a few participants. One
piece, called “My Vagina was my Village,”
features translated dialogue of two women’s
ultimately tragic stories.

Each monologue builds off of the one that
precedes it, though each conveys its own
unique message. The cast often actively par-
ticipates in the monologue transitions, mak-
ing for a lively dynamic that persists
throughout the play. The entire show runs
about two hours.

To be honest, I was a bit skeptical before
coming to the rehearsal. Women’s issues
have come up so many times this year, and
usually not in a good way. It almost felt like-
many people on campus were pushing these
issues too hard. Nevertheless, I tried to set
my skepticism aside when evaluating the
performance. After all, I’m just a theater
reviewer who happens to have, well, a vagi-
na.

Having a vagina, however, was not a pre-
requisite for directing this year’s play.

In fact, this year’s “Monologues” is cc-
directed by Visiting Assistant Professor of
Theatre Scott Ripley. Ripley said he was
drawn to the production for his own reasons,
which mainly include having a 17-year-old
daughter who has faced the kind of biases
against females that are addressed in the
play. He is directing the Vagina Monologues
on an entirely voluntary basis, since it is not
being staged by the Davidson Theatre
Department.

Aside from having a new director, this
year’s production is unique in that many cast
members have not participated in traditional
theatre productions before. A few faculty
and community members are also participat-
ing in this year’s show.

These older cast members provide an emo-
tional depth that might have been difficult
for younger members to express. For exam-
ple, Assistant Dean of Students Kathy Bray-
Merrell retells a touching story on childbirth
which allows the audience to grasp the
importance of this event.

“It’s not just about vaginas, but
about getting a dialogue started
and allowing women to get a voice,
to re-empower women.”

-Heather Yopp ‘06

In preparation for the production, the cast
was asked to draw individual interpretations
of their vaginas, which are on display in the
Union. Ellen Ioanes ‘09 said that these pic-
tures are “not about being explicit or graph-
ic, but about something that is life giving and
beautiful.”

The vaginas are meant to show how
women interpret their body and how society
has taught them to see their body.

Heather Yopp ‘06, co-president of the
Women’s Committee and producer of the
production, said “it’s not just about vaginas,
but about getting a dialogue started and
allowing women to get a voice, to re-
empower women.”

“It’s not about agreeing with all stories,
but the over arching message,” she said.

In addition to ticket sales, the production
is selling chocolate vagina lollipops for $2
and raffle tickets for $1, which go toward a
drawing for a basket of various spa-related
goodies. The lollipops and rafflt tickets are
being sold in the Union this week. All pro-
ceeds will go to the International
Organization for Women and Development.

The play will take place Friday and
Saturday evening at 8 p.m. .

Tickets are on sale at the box office, and
are $5 for Davidson affiliates and $8 for
community members. There will be talk-
backs after both of the performances, with
the director, cast, Health Advisor Georgia
Ringle and Assistant Professor of English
Ann Fox.

Dorms of distinction

By AMOURA CARTER
Staff Writer

Most college students attempt to bring a
little bit of home to their otherwise unin-
spired, white-walled dorm rooms. Some
Davidson students have gone beyond the
typical dorm decorations of celebrity posters
and pictures from home to create thematic
living environs that reflect their personality
and style.

Bianca Guinn ’08 and Elyse Harris ‘08
have created an art-themed room out of orig-
inal artwork.

“I brought my art with me to school
because it’s a piece of who I am,” Guinn
said. “If I left it at home it would be like
leaving a piece of myself.”

“We wanted our room to reflect our per-
sonalities so we included many bright colors,
pictures, and art,” added Harris.

Candace Coleman ’08 looked to do some-
thing a little different with her own living
space to make her feel more at home. She
and roommate Annamarie Glaize ‘08 took an
understated approach and aimed for simplic-
ity.

“That is, less is more,” Coleman said.
“Minimalist atmospheres are very conducive
for work.”

Craig Pickett ‘08 took the concept of sim-
plicity to an extreme when creating his room,
which contains little aside from a king-size
bed in the center. Pickett joined the room’s
two twin beds together to form his new rest-
ing place after the departure of his former

roommate.

“I arranged my room so that I could have
my area to converse with others, which is on
my futon, and an area to rest, which is on my
king size bed,” he said.

One roomate’s love for soccer and the
other’s sense of style helped roommates
Aaron West ’08 and Matt Hayes ’08 create
their ideal room.

“TJ think even though our room is the
smallest on our hall, we’ ve made the best use
of space,” West said. “It seems both spacious
and comfortable without seeming imperson-
al. Both Matt and I have put our personal
touch all over, so it’s really ours.”

Gordon Ballingrod’s ‘08 room has what he
describes as a “modern feel.” It is decorated
with many silver accessories and black and
white photos. ,

“My roommate has spent a lot of time and
effort furnishing and decorating our room,”
Ballingrod said. “It can be difficult to walk
through at night, but it garners a lot of com-
plements and visits from our hall mates.”

The rooms of some Davidson students,
however, definitely failed to impress.

Some residents noted how easily their
rooms had deteriorated into such disastrous
states. As one occupant of Cannon put it, “I
will do my laundry and I don’t feel like put-
ting it up, and before you know it, clothes
becomes shoes becomes books becomes
‘where’s the remote’?”

Whether they treat or mistreat their living
spaces, Davidson students all puta personal
touch on their dorms, for better or worse.

Yellowcard’s third album shows “maturity” but lacks creative edge.

‘Lights and Sounds’ unimpressive

By PRESTON Davis

Staff Writer

Whether you are one of the 1.7 million
people who bought the album “Ocean
Avenue” or are just a fan of contemporary
rock music, prepare yourself for
Yellowcard’s latest release. The group, who
hails from Jacksonville, Florida, is back with
a new album titled “Lights and Sounds.”

Unlike “Ocean Avenue” or “One for the
Kids,” “Lights and Sounds” is stylistically
all over the place. In the transition of leav-
ing behind their emo roots to embrace a
more traditional rock sound, the band loses
both the punk quality of its past as well as
some of its individual personality.

It seems that Yellowcard, in trying to lose
the inferiority complex that has often held
back emo bands, wants to break out onto the
larger stage. In the process of becoming
more widely known, however, there seem to
be some awkward spots.

The main problem with this album is its
lack of that distinctive quality that captured
me in the band’s last two records. The band’s
use of the violin, played by band member
Sean Mackin, is what really separates them
from other modern rock groups. In “Lights
and Sounds,” however, Mackin makes a
more subdued appearance than in previous
albums,

After going to yellowcardrock.com and
listening to the new title song “Lights and

. Sounds,” I felt as if I had been let down.

There were some good things to be said,
however. Songs such as “Rough Landing,
Holly,” “Waiting Game,” and “Martin Sheen
or JFK” have incredible dynamics. Within
the album itself, Yellowcard looks for bal-
ance by separating these tracks with slower,
more methodical songs that place their

emphasis on the lyrics.

The title track “Lights and Sounds” can be
misleading. The song begins with the author-

See Yellowcard, page 7
