THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, Marcu 15, 2006

ft °
Alumni, from page 1
an increasingly tolerant place, some gay stu-
dents still struggle with identity and sexuali-
ty here.

“Many students here come from areas of
the country where homosexuality is very
taboo, or have friends who come from simi-
lar places,”Hotchkiss said. Many students
might be struggling with homosexuality and

their religion, while others may just not feel .

comfortable with coming out yet.”

Besides showing the alumni the increased
tolerance at Davidson, Merrell hopes to
obtain advice on how Davidson can continue
to improve.

“The dinner is a valuable time for alumni
to network and to meet other alumni.
President Vagt’s willingness to host these
alumni for a morning reception sends an
important message to these alumni that the
college is committed to embracing diversity
on this campus and supporting the many
diverse components woven together to make
this a vibrant and tolerant community,”
Merrell said.

Two years ago, the Alumni Office spon-
sored a similar event. The alumni gathering
featured speaker Bill Eskridge *73, a Yale
Law professor and civil rights activist.

In conjunction with Eskridge’s visit, the
office hosted events that dealt specifically
with homosexual issues. i

About 40 alumni attended thie 2004 event,
and Merrell expects around the same number
this year.

4
me 4

“Many of our gay and lesbian
alumni had a difficult time at
Davidson solely because of their
sexual orientation. This weekend
helps to remind our alumni that
the college values them, that they
are important members of the
Davidson family and that the col-
lege remains committed to offer-
ing support forall of its students
on campus.”
--Matt Merrell
Director of Alumni Relations

Though most of the registered alumni are
recent graduates, the group represents a time
span of almost 40 years from Davidson his-

tory.

Senators propose reform
of Honor Council elections

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Senior Staff Writer

The Mar. 9 Student Government
Association meeting covered topics includ-
ing Honor Council election policy reforms
and campus service events.

The meeting’s most intense debate
occurred over a proposed change to the
Honor Council election policies.

Honor Council Chairman Bryant Kirkland
’07 came before the body asking that the sec-
tion of the SGA bylaws allowing Honor
Council candidates to submit blurbs to the
campus be eliminated on the grounds that
they constitute campaigning.

Kirkland argued that although the SGA
bylaws state that blurbs may contain “no
campaign words or phrases,” anything that
candidates write in their blurbs implicitly
constitutes campaigning.

“Candidates ought to be judged on the
substance of their lives, not on the cleverness
of their paragraphs,” he said.

He also informed the body that of 30
Honor Council members, 25 voted to elimi-
nate the blurbs, three voted to keep them and
two abstained from voting.

The ensuing debate amongst senators cen-
tered on the issue of whether or not students
would have sufficient information to cast an
informed vote without the blurbs.

Freshman senator Brian Aoyama ’09
summed up the majority opinion.

“T think that if you don’t vote because you
don’t know [any of the candidates], that’s
fine,” he said.

Nineteen of 28 SGA members present
voted to eliminate the blurbs, providing the
two-thirds majority needed to pass a pro-
posed change to the bylaws.

Dissention among senators increased
again when Patterson Court Council (PCC)
Service Chair Sara Madison Davenport ’07
requested that SGA donate $1,050 to co-
sponsor a “pig-picking” fundraiser in April.

Some senators hesitated to support the
donation because they were unsure if suffi-
cient funds remained in the SGA budget.

Davenport pressed the issue.

“PCC and SGA have a troubled history of
working together, and I would hate for this to
be another example,” she said.

SGA passed the measure unanimously,

after Treasurer Chris Burks ’07 assured the
senators of the body’s sound financial status.

The donation will cover supplies for the
fundraiser, and all proceeds from the event
will be donated to Loaves and Fishes.

The meeting also featured a presentation
by leaders of the Black Student Coalition
(BSC) who addressed the perception that the
BSC excludes members based on races.

BSC president Brendan Watkins °07
emphasized that the BSC is open to any stu-
dent who pays the dues of $10 per semester.

He added that the BSC is working with
Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm to
include the organization on the mandatory
freshman Patterson Court rotation next year.

PCC executive board member Lana Sims
addressed SGA concerning the new
Patterson Court house vacancy created by
the dissolution of CoHo.

At the request of Vice President of Student
Life and Dean of Students Tom Shandley,
the PCC executive board has been drafting a
formal set of criteria for selecting an organi-
zation to inherit the old CoHo house.

The guidelines will include provisions that
the organization be large enough to sustain
the house and take full advantage of its facil-
ities and that it use the house for social func-
tions, meetings and meals.

The finalized guidelines will be released
within the next few weeks.

Elizabeth Henry ’08 then presented a pro-
posal for the use of this year’s $10,000
Improve Davidson Fund (IDF).

The project, known as Engage for Change,
aims to increase awareness of social justice
issues like housing, race and education by
sponsoring campus activities throughout the
year.

The planned organization will not seek a
charter but plans to function by combining
and channeling the efforts of campus organ-
izations like CROP, Room at the Inn and Just
Peace toward achieving broader goals.

“We want to use the IDF to fund the orga-
nization’s takeoff so that established organi-
zations are not investing in the project until
we see how it works,” Henry said. “We hope
eventually to use funds from pre-existing
organizations so that we are not competing
with other organizations for [ATC] funding.”

SGA voted unanimously to endorse the
project.

Want to write for
news?
Email lehamilton.

