os
(nd >
® Tr ait
MORES

Aa

Eze

Connor, from page I

dies to their bosoms’ and learn how to con-
duct a self-breast exam,” Agyun said.

Six area restaurants, including the
Brickhouse Tavern, Brixx Pizza and Caribou
Coffee, catered the event free of charge.

Students and adults enjoyed the food and entertainment at Bosom Buddies.

“The food. ..[was] so popular that we actu-
ally ran out of food half way through the
night,” Aygun said. “Brixx and _ the
Brickhouse Tavern, our lead sponsor, came
to our rescue with additional food for our
hungry guests.”

Connor house coordinators also said that

Union, from page 1

ior has an adverse effect on employee per-
formance.

“The biggest thing is for employees to take
ownership and pride in their areas,” he said.
“This is hard for them to maintain when they
are taking abuse from students.”

Student rudeness and aggressive behavior
force the Café’s managerial staff to spend
extra time boosting staff morale.

Phillips echoes Rutkowski’s concern,
pointing out that once people have faced
abuse for an extended period of time, it is
natural for them to retaliate in kind.

Students physically disprespecting the
Café have also caused problems this semes-
ter.

Employees have reported instances of stu-
dents spilling their food and then responding
to staff members with statements including,
“That’s. your mess to clean up, not mine.”

The seating area attached to the Café also
suffers from the students’ unwillingness to
take responsibility for their own messes.

According to Phillips, staff members spent
45 minutes one evening cleaning up just the
dozen or so tables located directly outside of
the Café’s entrance.

Dining Services points to several factors
that may be contributing to this semester’s
increase in aggressive student behavior.

Terry said the earlier Café closing hours
on Wednesdays and Thursdays acted as “a
lightning rod” for some of the student unhap-
piness that has been leading to inappropriate
behavior.

Because the late night managerial position
has remained unfilled more often than it has
been filled during this academic year, the
Café now closes at | a.m. instead of at 2.a.m.
on Wednesday and Thursday evenings.

Phillips assures students that the earlier
closing hour is only temporary; regular hours
will resume upon the hiring of a night man-
ager.

Historically, this position has been a diffi-
cult one to fill.

Terry said that the stressful short-order
environment and the late hours, especially
when combined with rude students, make the
position unattractive to many potential can-
didates.

“We are currently looking at instituting a
pay increase for the closing night manager to
make the position more attractive to candi-
dates,” Phillips said.

When there is no night manager on staff,
Rutkowski and Union Café Manager Mary
Bolton split the late night managerial posi-
tion.

Students also frequently become aggres-
sive when they discover that the grill line has
shut down before the Café’s official closing.

Phillips points out that cleaning time
makes in necessary to close the line early; if
it did not shut down early, employees would
not be able to leave until nearly 4 a.m.

Another common student complaint cen-
ters on the prices of various items in the
Café.

Rutkowski explains that he compiles a
price comparison between the Café and com-
parable cash operations on campuses across
the country each summer. Traditionally, the
Café’s prices are amongst the lowest.

Recently, Director of the College Union
and Coordinator of Student Activities
William Brown called a meeting with stu-
dent leaders from the Student Government
Association and the Council on Campus and
Religious Life to discuss the issue of stu-
dents’ abusive behavior toward café workers.

Thomas Lodato ‘07 earner a late-night snack at the Union Caté.

_NEWS

increased community involvement and atten-
dance contributed to the overwhelming suc-
cess of this year’s event.

In order to attract younger community
members with children to the event, Connor
House contracted with members of Warner
Hall to provide free supervision of attendees’

“There is already lots of money
being poured into finding a cure,
and much of it has led to discovery
of effective treatment methods.
Each of our speakers said to me
that more money should be going
towards research in detection,
since early detection gives you
your best chance at recovery.”
--Katherine Swiatek ‘07

children during the event.

“Five members of Warner donated their
time to Bosom Buddies by supervising chil-
dren in Baker [sports complex]...two Warner
Hall women babysat free of charge,” Aygun
said.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006

The silent auction included items such as a
basketball autographed by Davidson’s men’s
team,which sold for $500 dollars, as well as
gift certificates from local retailers.

A large portion of the financial contribu-
tions came from the success of the live auc-
tion, which included getaways at the vaca-
tion homes of Connor House members’ fam-
ilies, ‘

The money raised will assist Friends for an
Earlier Breast Cancer Test’s mission “to pro-
vide grants to scientists who are exploring
bio-markers that indicate breast cancer is
present in the body.

““Friends’ is a great organization that,
encourages looking at breast cancer from a
different perspective by focusing on research
in prevention and detection,” Connor House
president Katherine Swiatek ‘07 said. “There
is already lots of money being poured into
finding a cure, and much of it has lead to dis-
covery of effective treatment methods.
Each of our speakers said to me that more
money should be going towards research in
detection, since early detection gives you
your best chance at a recovery.”

The institution has collected $1.3 million
since its founding in 1995.

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

2/28/06

Knobloch Campus Center

Fire

Officer found a green Jamis Durango Sport bicycle on fire behind the Knobloch
Campus. After calling the on-duty supervisor and fire department, the officer put out the
fire with a fire extinguisher. The fire department informed officers that there was a trail
of fuel leading away from the bike. Upon following the trail, the officer found that the
trail led to Stow’s Body Shop on Main Street. Pictures were taken of the bicycle, which
was placed in storage. The owner of the bicycle is still unknown.

3/1/06 Satellite Parking Lot Suspicious Persons

Officer received a call from dispatch about several white males hitting golf balls and
throwing trash at the north end of the upper satellite parking lot. Three of the subjects
were dependents of College staff/faculty, and the other four were guests. The subjects
were coming off the Frisbee golf course. When advised that they were littering, they
immediately picked up all the trash in the area. One subject admitted to hitting a golf ball
into the woods. All subject were cooperative and polite

3/4/06 Found Property

Patterson Court
Officer found a black CD case lying on the brick walkway near Warner Hall. The case
contained 96 CDs, which were estimated to be worth $1,450.

3/5/06 Intoxication

Cannon Dormitory
Officers were dispatched to Cannon Dormitory in reference to an intoxicated student
found in a bathroom. The RA on duty said he had found the student passed out in the
bathroom. The student did not respond well to questions and was transported to Lake
Norman Hospital for treatment.

3/7/06 Martin Court Fire Alarm

An officer met the fire department to respond to an alarm call from Flowe Apartment.
There was an odor of smoke in the kitchen area, and the fireman determined a piece of
chicken had fell onto a burner. The apartment’s resident said she was cooking a chicken
breast and a small piece fell inside the burner and began to burn, causing smoke to fill

the room. The fire department cleared the apartment and reset the alarm.

3/12/06 Belk Dormitory Alcohol Poisoning

An officer was informed that there was a white male passed out in fron of Belk
Dormintory. The unconscious subject was identified as a visitor.on campus. The offi-
cer informed the subject’s mother that her son was being transported to Lake Norman

Regional hospital for observation due to possible alcohol poisoning.

3/12/06 Patterson Court © Intoxication

Officer received a call in reference to a heavily intoxicated white male in from of
Turner House. Upon arrival, the officer saw the subject being held up by two females,
The subject was unsteady and disoriented and had a strong odor of alcohol about his per-
son. The subject fell to the ground and was unable to stand up again. The subject was
transported to Lake Norman Regional Hospital.

Students with ‘iteiiation about campus crimes can contact Campus Police
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety

