4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Gry? |

Admission, from page 1

According to Gruber, admissions priorities
sometimes conflict.

“We want a first chair cellist and someone
who can make a corner kick in soccer, but we
also need bridge builders and service lead-
ers,” he said.

The profile for the admitted students from
the class of 2010 mirrors the profiles of the
last two years’ incoming freshman classes.

This year, 23 percent of admitted students
are individuals from racial or ethnic minori-
ty groups, as compared to the class of 2009,
of which 22.4 percent of students either self-
identified as minority students or chose not
to report.

Assistant Dean Anna Meadowsworks
through a stack of aplications.

These percentages are slightly lower than
they were for class of 2008, in which 25.2
percent of admitted students either self-iden-
tified as members of a minority or declined
to report. Historically, the percentage yields
of students accepting offers of admission
have béen approximately equal for minority
and for white students.

Although three years ago the yield for
African-American students was 10 percent-
age points higher than the yield for other
minority students, that gap narrowed to less
than one percentage point in last year’s
freshman class.

“Seeing the yield go up is a great thing, a
huge thing,” Gruber said. “The comfort level
for minority students on campus is increas-
ing because the faculty, staff, students and
community members are so welcoming.”

Geographically, the largest percentage of
the class of 2010 will hail from the
Southeast, as has been the case in years past.

Of this year’s students admitted through
Regular Decision, 45 percent live in’ the
Southeast. Southeasterners also compose
36.9 percent of the class of 2009 and 38.9
percent of the class of 2008.

As in past, the Midwest is the region of the
country with the fewest representatives at
Davidson.

Students will lead tours on campus on Saturday morning for Decision Davidson.

Of this year’s admitted students, eight
percent are Midwesterners, compared to 10.8
percent in the class of 2009 and 9 percent in
the class of 2008.

Despite the recent drop in Midwesterners,
Gruber said that Admissions has seen an
increase in applications coming from states
“where we are not as much of a household
word” in the past few years.

Additionally, 29 international students
have been offered spots in next year’s fresh-
man class. Three have already accepted
through Early Decision.

While culling students from diverse eth-
nicities and birthplaces, Admissions also
attempts to keep the percentages of men and
of women even. So far, 86 men and 95
women have been enrolled through Early
Decision.

Historically, the percentages of students
from different types of high schools have
also remained approximately equal.

Last year, 50 percent of the freshman class
attended public high schools, 33 percent
attended private high schools, and 17 percent
attended parochial or foreign high schools.

According to a survey conducted by the
Public Opinion class taught by Associate
Professor of Political Science Pat Sellers,
Davidson students generally value diversity
within the student body.

In Oct. 2005, 944 randomly selected stu-
dents were asked the following question:
“For Davidson to provide the best education-
al experience, how important is it that the
students come from a wide variety of states
and countries, racial and ethnic backgrounds,
religious traditions, socio-economic back-
grounds, and political and ideological per-
spectives?”

Of the 557 students who replied, 63 per-
cent said that it is “very important” for stu-
dents to come from a variety of political and
ideological perspectives and 33 percent said
that is “somewhat important.”

This represents the greatest positive
response to any of the variables contained
within the survey question.

“T think diversity is important, but I don’t
like it when someone is put in a spot just for
their ethnicity,” said Kathryn Cole ’09. “Ifa
student is well-rounded, that is more impor-
tant.”

Students over the past three years have
indicated that they value geographic, socio-
economic and racial and ethnic diversity at
approximately equal rates.

Fifty-six percent of respondents in a 2005 —

survey viewed geographic diversity as “very
important.”

As for socio-economic diversity, 59 per-
cent of respondents in 2005 viewed it as
“very important.”

“T think it’s important to have a diverse
group of students,” said Mac Skelton ’07.
“Economic diversity is important because
we don’t want everyone to be from the
neighborhood. And we need diverse tal-
ents.” i

_NEWS

Keeley, from page 1 .

. that she has a lot to learn in the months to

come.
“There’s learning all day, every day, in all

“My immediate plans are to learn
as much as I can about what I
need to be doing...I need to
understand the breadth of the job
and to know the people who work
for College Relations I haven’t
gotten to know so I know what
kind of talent we have on the staff
and how to make the best use of
that talent.”
--Eileen Keeley,
Vice President for College
Relations

sorts of ways that are unexpected;” Keeley
said.

Keeley has a broad two-part goal that
involves helping the College while also
increasing her knowledge of the position.

“My immediate plans are to learn as much
as I can about what I need to be doing... I
need to understand the breadth of the job and
to know the people who work for College
Relations I haven’t gotten to know so I know
what kind of talent we have on the staff and
how to make the best use of that talent. [I
also want] to review some of our policies
and procedures to make sure that we’re

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 2006

being as efficient and effective as possible,”
Keeley said. ;
The Vice President for College Relations

VP for College Relations Eileen Keeley

position opened last December when former
Vice President Kristin Hills Bradberry left
Davidson to work for the Arts & Science
Council in Charlotte.

Members of a search committee reviewed
Keeley’s application and interviewed her
twice before offering her the position.

Search committee members included
Director of Athletics Jim Murphy, Associate
Professor of Psychology Kristi Multhaup,
Professor of Physics Dan Boye, Associate
Dean of Students and Director of Residence
Life Leslie Marsicano, Senior Associate
Dean of Admission and Financial Aid
Kathleen Stevenson and Director of Human
Resources Carl Sorensen.

PLON UNIVERSITY

"SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro — August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Web site: law.elon.edu
for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW = E-mail:law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED
LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

= Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and
skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study

# Learning experiences in the area's leading law firms, federal and state courts,
businesses, government agencies and nonprofit organizations

= Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation

* in the school’s courtroom and facilities

= Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science
and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

