10

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
FEBRUARY 15, 2006

Staff Editorial
PE credit off-base

In Assassins, a mock combat game played with water
guns, participants eliminate enemy targets through stealth
operations. As players advance to the final rounds, they face
grueling “immunity challenges” that test their physical and
mental endurance.

No, it’s not Fox’s latest reality TV show. It’s a student-run
game that the PE department recently approved as a lifetime
PE credit.

The purpose of the lifetime sport credit, according to the
college website, is to “develop skills to aid in physical well-
being after college years.”

The PE department offers classes ranging from aerobics to
volleyball that fulfill the requirement. In special cases, the
PE department may approve activities outside of the depart-
ment. _.

By approving Assassins as a lifetime sport credit, the PE
department has failed to meet its own standards for what
entails a lifetime sport.

Even in this age of terrorism, it is unlikely that the “skills”
students learn by playing Assassins will translate into their
adult lives in any meaningful way. And while the challenges
involving rock climbing and swimming do promote lifetime
skills, students are only required to participate in one of these
challenges to earn the credit.

PE requirements are an integral part of the Davidson expe-
rience. In order to graduate, all students must fulfill four PE
requirements: lifetime, water, team and Davidson 101.

We all remember huddling around the Baker swimming
pool during Freshman Olympics, watching our fellow class-
mates complete the swimming test we must pass to graduate.
In fact, the experience is one that most students remember
clearly from the haze of Orientation.

Even the college’s lofty mission statement makes refer-
ence to PE requirements. In an attempt to produce well-
rounded students, the College “requires physical education,
provides for competitive athletics, and encourages a variety
of social, cultural, and service activities.”

If the PE requirement is to be taken seriously, the PE
department must reevaluate its standards for approving sport
credits.

Allowing Assassins to fulfill the lifetime requirement
makes the credit seem like a joke and opens the door to other
arbitrary approvals.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry
Managing Editor
Ruchi Turakhia
News § Editors

Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie McKeen
Perspectives Editors. _-
Halley Aclion. & Nathan Bradshaw
Arty & Living Editors
Katie Hunter & M
‘Bobby Kenner & Jeff Yeakel

e Wellman

- Monologues.”

* LETTERS TO a EDITOR *

School offers books
at reasonable prices

A letter to the editor in the Feb. 8 Davidsonian raises seri-
ous questions about the integrity of your college store,
accusing the store of “printing up little receipts that blatant-
ly lie.”

As the Bookstore Manager and a member of the college
community, I must respectfully refute this information. The
staff of the Bookstore considers living within the Honor
Code to be both serious and important and must clarify this
misinformation.

The receipt says, “The Bookstore buys current used bks.
@50% of current list if reused next term, up to qty needed.”
To clarify, this means that books may be purchased at 50
percent of the current new price IF a professor adopts the
book for a class in the following term, up to the number
needed.

Some exceptions apply. If the book has not been adopted,
the used book company may buy the book for sale else-
where and usually offers less than 50 percent of the new
price. This information is printed with refund deadline dates
on a red marker and attached to register receipts during
rush.

Textbook prices are high, and shopping online can save
you money, if you have the correct ISBN numbers, the time

and patience and assume the risks (books arriving late,
wrong editions, returns).

Professors choose the titles. Publishers set the cost. Last
year’s independent review described our pricing policies as
among the most favorable in the country.

There is no intention to lie or mislead, ever. The Bookstore
Staff welcomes questions and comments. If you have one,
please let us know.

Gwen Gardner
Bookstore Manager

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor. Please e-mail
submissions of fewer than 250
words to davidsonian @ david-
son.edu by Sunday night. We

reserve the right to edit for
content, brevity and grammar.
Anonymous letters will not be
printed.

Feminist ‘brainwashing’ logic
example of larger hypocrisies

In the classic 1962 film “The

Manchurian Candidate,”
Communist agents develop a
hypnosis technique that allows
~| them to brainwash an American
“| solider into a mindless assassin
| loyal to their every command.
The idea of brainwashing has
proven far too frightening and
powerful to be left to the world
of fiction.
a We hear a certain kind of
argument all the time: Marilyn
Manson’s music corrupts youths
into school shooters. Joe Camel ads lure children into smok-
ing. The video game Grand Theft Auto causes someone to
commit grand theft auto. If you want something to be
banned, your argument is more appealing if you can make
people out to be empty vessels, perfectly vulnerable to the
slightest suggestion.

The brainwashing thesis has also infected our campus dis-
course. Although it’s been far from ignored in these pages, I
simply must return to the brouhaha surrounding certain arti-
cles and illustrations in the Yowl from last September,
although current events also involving cartoons and moral
indignation might make this topic more timely and less tire-
some.

Much of the criticism leveled at the Yowl’s take on male
sketchiness and campus sexual relations relied on the notion
that the males of Davidson are dangerously susceptible to
‘suggestion. The letter of protest from the Davidson
Women’s Committee (DWC) warned that “these articles and
the entire tone of this week’s Yowl perpetuate stereotypes
and encourage men to act in an inappropriate manner.”

While cries of brainwashing might help campus feminists

crash course

Marr BANDYK

. demonize their perceived opposition, those who use this

argument should be careful that it doesn’t backfire. In this
case, I think it has.

Let me explain: this past weekend, the members of the
Davidson Women’s Committee and other students put on a
performance of the now world-famous “Vagina
Ever since its inception, conservatives have
blasted the “Monologues” for contributing to cultural deca-
dence. One passage has been particularly criticized: a 13-
year-old girl describes being plied with alcohol and then
molested by an older woman.

I don’t bring up this scene to criticize the ‘‘Vagina
Monologues.” I find claims that the “Monologues” encour-
age “selfishness and profligacy,” as one critic writes to be as
crude as the 1950s moral panic over Elvis Presley’s hips or
modern connect-the-dots from video games to violence. But
once one has embraced similar illogic when criticizing the
Yowl, how can he or she turn around and embrace rape
scenes in the “Vagina Monologues?”

One defense might be that the contexts are completely dif-
ferent, which, of course, they are. But the argument for
brainwashing ignores issues of context. The worry is how the
impressionable audience might view the piece in question,
not the artist’s intent.

Critics of the Yowl certainly didn’t seem to care about the
tongue-in-cheek context in which it was writtei. The letter
from the DWC even says that “we know the Yowl... is not to
be taken literally,” but then takes it literally anyway. Why
spare the Monologues from the same scrutiny?

The only other defense I can think of is that rape is some-
how not as bad when it’s lesbian rape rather than heterosex-
ual rape. If someone has.a legitimate defense of that claim,
I’d love to hear it.

So again, why do satires of sexual harassment in the Yowl,
regardless of the spirit in which they are written, merit such
outrage, but an outright approving portrayal of rape in the
“Vagina Monologues” becomes a celebration of the female
body and a triumph for feminist values?

This question is important when we consider the extent to
which blowhards on both the right and the left use arguments
that insult the intelligence of their audience. Right-wingers
say that people are too impressionable and stupid to watch
violent or raunchy TV shows without the need for regulation.
Left-wingers say that people are too impressionable and stu-
pid to watch cigarette or junk food commercials without the
need for regulation.

Since these arguments will backfire on other parts of their
agendas, as in the case of the Yowl and the “Vagina
Monologues,” these groups should consider treating their
audience like responsible individuals rather than mindless
automatons. And if we’re worrying about children, treat
them as wards of their parents, not the government. That may
not be as sexy an argument as brainwashing, but it’s much
more honest.

Matt Bandyk ’06 is a political science major from Tampa,
Fl. Contact him at mabandyk@davidson.edu
