THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 12, 2006 5

Investigative process prompts student concern

By NATHAN BRADSHAW
Staff Writer

The Student Life staff, at the instruction of
Vice President and Dean of Students Tom
Shandley, investigated Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity (SAE) for violations of Patterson
Court’s New Member Bill of Rights earlier
this semester.

According to Associate Dean of Students
Leslie Marsicano, the investigation was
prompted by a hall counselor who emailed
Patterson Court Advisor Joy Hamm with
concerns about SAE pledging activities.

Thirteen students gave individual state-
ments about new member activities to inter-
view teams of two on Jan. 24.

SAE was charged with “numerous” new
member violations, according to Shandley.

A violation of the New Member Bill of
Rights occurs when new members of frater-
nities or eating houses are “required/expect-
ed or even ‘strongly encouraged’” to per-
form specifically prohibited acts.

Such violations transgress both Patterson
Court regulations and the Code of
Responsibility.

Several studenis raised concerns about the
conduct of new member interviews, specifi-
cally regarding the use of the Honor Code
and the confidentiality of responses.

Of the eight SAE new members ques-
tioned for this article, six said that their inter-
viewers gave them the impression that
declining to answer a question would consti-
tute a violation of the Honor Code.

Six also said that their interviewers gave
them the impression that all that was said in
the interviews would be kept confidential.

Addressing whether the Honor Code was

used to compel testimony, MarSicano said, |

“We asked Dean Shandley specifically if stu-
dents were obligated to answer, and he
instructed us to say, ‘We expect you to
answer.””

Shandley said students cannot be bound

by the Honor Code to answer questions that
do not relate to potential Honor Code viola-
tions. . ;
“I think if a student stood up and said, ‘I
refuse to answer a question,’ there’s no way
to plead the fifth,” he said. “This isn’t a court
of law. However, there’s no way to force a
student to answer. We expect students to
answer, though.”

SAE new member Logan Adermatt ’09
said he felt intimidated into answering ques-
tions during the interviews.

“T was left with the impression that if I sat
silently, it would be an Honor Code viola-
tion,” he said.

Adermatt also said that he left the meeting
with a sense that his answers would be kept
confidential unless brought up in the formal
trial.

Another SAE new member, Matt Chazen
’09, said that he felt intimidated by the invo-
cation of the Honor Code and taken advan-
tage of in the investigation process.

He said that he felt the interviews were
intended less to protect his rights as a new
member and more for the prosecution of the
fraternity.

“It seems like the school really doesn’t
care about us. They made us out to be the
victims, and they were the ones who victim-
ized us,” Chazen said.

Registrar Hansford Epes, who has been

involved with applications of the Honor
Code and the Code of Responsibility since
his appointment to the faculty in 1964, said,
“The Honor Code has a long history, and the
Code of Responsibility was made a separate
matter quite deliberately, in part to keep the
Honor Code what it had been.”

“The Honor Code should create a
relationship of trust on both ends
of the community, that is,
between students and college
officials. Refusing to answer
questions can be perceived as a
barrier to this trust, but invok-
ing the Code as an administra-
tive tool might also be perceived
as an act of intimidation.”
--Bryant Kirkland ‘07,
Honor Council Chair-Elect

Epes added that he does not think that the
Honor Code is intended to aid investigations
of Code of Responsibility matters.

Epes also said, “the Honor Code is more
about what we as a community want to be
rather than what we as a community
require.”

When asked about the use of the Honor
Code in investigating Code of Responsibility
matters, Vagt said, “We are, at our core, a
community of honor. If, in fact, as a commu-
nity of honor we have pledged to each other
that we will act by a code of decency, then

why would someone say, ‘I’m not going to
answer this honestly?’ Does honor apply
only when someone cheats or steals?”

Vagt said that concern for the welfare of
the students involved, specifically the frater-
nity pledges, was the reason the investiga-
tion began in the first place.

He emphasized that the interviewing of
new members “was not a fishing expedi-
tion.”

Honor Council Chair-Elect Bryant
Kirkland ’07 said,” The Honor Code should
create a relationship of trust on both ends of ,
the community, that is, between students and
college officials. Refusing to answer ques-
tions can be perceived as a barrier to this
trust,)but invoking the Code as an adminis-
trative tool might also be perceived as an act
of intimidation.”

Kirkland added that he thought it would be
best if Patterson Court developed its own set
of rules for how to investigate new member
violations.

“I know that the concerns are legitimate.
I’m only concerned about the means for get-
ting at these issues.”

Shandley and Marsicano both said that the
SAE new members were told nothing about
potential confidentiality of their responses in
interviews.

However, both they and Vagt indicated
that confidentiality should be a concern in
fraternity investigations.

“IT don’t know that it’s necessary to share
names,” said Shandley. “It would be helpful
to write down a procedure that would be
understood for future situations of this kind.
It would be helpful also to find a way to pro-
tect anonymity.”

ON UNIVERSITY

~ SCHOOL OF LAW

Opening in Greensboro — August 2006

Now accepting applications for the charter class.

Web site: law.elon.edu
for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW ® E-mail:law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED
LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

= Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and
skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study

= Learning experiences in the area's leading law firms, federal and state courts,
_ businesses, government agencies and nonprofit organizations

= Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation

in the school's courtroom and facilities

= Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science
and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

