Staff Editorial

Be content this March

No grade inflation here; these high marks are well
deserved. Professors take note: giving an A is not a crime.

Basketball: A+

Team: After a spirited SoCon Championship run and a
hard-fought game vs. Ohio State, Davidson cannot help but
be proud of its basketball team. The school, as much as the
team, will miss the class of seven seniors.

Fans: Announcements asking fans to remain in their seats’

were drowned out by Davidson’s screaming fans. Many
12:30 classes were canceled, and the Union was rockin’. The
usually defunct SGA also deserves credit for organizing an
affordable 2 a.m. bus to Dayton, Oh.

Music Scene: B+

Props to the Union Board for drawing larger crowds to
smaller band events by using more effective advertising.
Slight discord still exists when it comes to finding musicians
who interest the majority of students. Some have criticized
the decision to bring Bob Dylan to perform on campus, argu-
ing that the generation gap is too wide to turn out a large
crowd. Initial ticket sales, however, seem to prove the con-
trary. Students waited in line for hours in the Union to snag
the best seats. Word is over 1,200 tickets were sold in the first
four hours. Rock on, Bob!

Theater: A

A standing ovation for the thespian crowd, including the
RSC and the Davidson Community Players. The students and
professors who throw themselves into the shows, however,
get a standing ovation and a bouquet. From the polish of “For
Every Passion Something” to the magic of “The Emperor’s
New Clothes” to the explosiveness of “Vagina Monologues,”
theater at Davidson wins the “most bang for your buck”
award hands down. Hopefully the college will put enough
money into renovating the Cunningham Fine Arts Center to
ensure that future seasons have resources to match the efforts
of participants.

Community Service: A-

Student efforts in service have been particularly fruitful
this semester, with Red and Black Ball, Earthquake Relief
Dinner and Bosom Buddies exceeding fundraising expecta-
tions. Generous students can go broke just walking around
the Union spending parent-given CatCard money on worthy
causes. Service reaches well beyond the big name events, as
many students devote their time to regular volunteer pro-
grams. Although Davidson’s service record is to be com-
mended, student groups need to increase collaboration to
bestow greater benefits upon those in need.

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LULX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Liz Barry
Managing Editor
Ruchi- Turakhia
News Editors
Kate Gillespie, Lexi Hamilton & Jackie McKeon
Perspectives Editors
Halley Aelion & Nathan Bradshaw
' Arts & Living Editors
Katie:Hunter & Mike Wellman
Yow! Editors
Bobby Kennet & Jeff Yeakel
-. Sports: Editors: :
Monica Jamouneau é&" 2 ee
Photography:
“Jessica Hodge. -
Business, Advertising, and Circulation pe
Sarah Bogue ’

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
MARCH 22, 2006

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Cafe problems not all

about student abuse

While I agree that students have displayed disrespect
toward the Union Café and its workers, I wish that the arti-
cle, “Union Café reacts to disrespectful students” (Mar. 15),
had provided an adequate student perspective.

I would like to think that only a slim minority of students
inspired such an article to be written. I would like to know
why students might be reacting as they are. At our core, I
definitely do not see us as the destructive, abusive and rude
individuals that we were depicted as. I mean, we are
Davidson students.

I personally had an experience a few weeks back where I
was right outside the Union Café (not inside) complaining
to a couple of my friends about how I was annoyed that the
Union Café had limited their already sparse and sporadic
hours. I guess I was being a bit more boisterous then I
thought I was (also I am told that my voice carries), but the
next thing I know the Manager of the Union Café is
demanding that I hand over my CatCard so that she can take
down my ID number and name and threatening me with an
Honor Code violation if I fail to comply.

After a few minutes of discussion she had explained to me

that the current register worker had been offended by my .|

comments and had complained to her about my behavior.
Apparently the Union Café reserves the right to restrict not
only hours, but also speech.

I know that I am not the only person to have had such an
encounter like this over the past few weeks. Why wasn’t
anything like this included in the article about student row-
diness in the Union Café? I realize that many inebriated
individuals do head to the Café for late night snacks (what
other options do we have on campus?) and that some are
belligerent, but the way that the staff treats us perpetuates
this cycle and it’s unfortunate.

I would not come to the Union Café if I had any other on
campus option at night, but I don’t. I’m tired of being
scowled at by certain late night workers as I pay for my food
no matter how much I try to smile or strike up a rapport. I’m
tired of the same disgusting convenience store options that I
am given. And I’m tired of being threatened with the Honor
Code for expressing my disappointment in more restricted
Café hours.

But I digress. I hope that they continue to scale back
hours, continue to provide the same unhealthy food and con-
tinue to provide us with the same unsmiling service. I’m
sure that if this continues, students’ behavior gracing the
Union Café will become positive, pleasant and polite.

Graham Jaenicke ’07

Gay alumni reunion
creates segregation

When I read the article “College to Host Gay Alumni,”
(Mar. 15) my egalitarian nerves were tweaked: If we, as
Matt Merrell said, are “committed to embracing diversity on
this campus,” where are the Single Mother and the African
American Weekends?

Spotlighting this one issue, I think, will do less to father
community as it will to alienate alums that do not belong to
a favored minority.

After reading the report, I realized that this Gay Alumni
Weekend is overreaching in its goals to heighten gay and
lesbian acceptance. I know that alumni requested this recog-
nition, but is it necessary to make a weekend so that they can
“network” and “meet other alumni?”

Possibilities extend beyond an exclusive party. Alumni
events already coordinated, including the similar one two
years ago, are open to everyone of every gender, nationality,
sexual orientation, and race.

For the school to host a weekend dedicated to a controver-
sial issue is to segregate people more and to reheat a sensi-
tive issue that seems to be improving. Do we, as an institu-
tion, owe homosexual alumni an apology? If so, we should
try to integrate them further, not separate them.

On the other hand, females were not welcome to Davidson
until almost forty years ago. The Jewish community is rising
but still outnumbered by Catholics, Atheists, and
Presbyterians.

I do not want to trivialize a noble cause, but when will we
hear of Alumni and Presidential-supported weekends for
other minority groups? There should be a more egalitarian
way to re- -welcome our alumni.

Paige Taylor ’

The Davidsonian welcomes
letters to the editor. Please e-mail
submissions of fewer than 250
words to davidsonian @ david-
son.edu by Sunday night. We

reserve the right to edit for
content, brevity and grammar.
Anonymous letters will not be
printed.

March Madness is catching

I'll admit it. I’m a girl’s girl.
I’ve danced at more Davidson
men’s basketball games than I’ve
watched this season. But some-
thing in my pink-ribbon hard-
wiring switched Selection Sunday,
and since that night (“what does 15
mean?”) ESPN.com and I have
been as inseparable as that obnox-
ious couple snoogling on the
Union couches. What was it that
Js . | finally drew college basketball and
me together?

Was it the shoulder-to-shoulder
mass of manic fans in the 900

caralot

~.
i. ‘

CHRISTIAN

Room?

The ‘Davidson vs. Goliath’ spirit pf throwing pebbles at
the big guy?

The bi-hourly promotional emails?

The sweet sweet possibility of filling out a killer bracket
and making my roommate cry?

Here are the components I’ve singled out thus far: one part
hype, one part pride, one part Brendan Winters...blended,

served cold and dashed with sheer gambler’s luck. I don’t
know who was going to tell me that winning is involved in
this “tournament” business, but now that I’m in the secret cir-
cle of trust, let me pass this gem along: calling an upset falls
just short of playing God. Gloating and “I told you so’s free
with purchase.

Sure, there’s camaraderie, sportsmanship and the gainful
employment of sportscasters and nacho venders.

But let’s be honest. Friday was all about cherishing learn-
ing where liberty has arisen all over the Buckeyes’ face. We
rubbed arisen liberty all over their shoddy first-half three-
point shooters and cherished their awe-struck faces all the
way to a 29-25 half-time lead.

The winner’s high didn’t last much longer than that lead
did (and neither will my bracket’s momentum after Gonzaga
gets pummeled)—but I’m hooked. I’m stuck. I’m riding the
30-second refresh on ESPN’s scores page all the way to the
end, dancing along with the tournament as a full-fledged bas-
ketball enthusiast.

This time without the red leotard.

Cara Christian ’07 is an English major from Scottsdale,
Az. Contact her at cachristian@davidson.edu.
