NEws

Stoops kicked off Engage for Change’s two weeks of events on Monday night.

Stoops addresses need
for homeless legislation

By KATE GILLESPIE
News Editor

Acting Executive Director of the National
Coalition for the Homeless Michael Stoops
spoke on the need to end homelessness by
addressing its root problems.

“Volunteerism alone, acts of mercy alone,

- acts of kindness alone are not addressing the
issue,” Stoops said.

Stoops’ talk was the first in a two-week
series of events planned by Engage for
Change, a new student organization focusing
on hunger and homelessness.

“Nobody would ever want to be
homeless. Other than going to war,
being homeless is one of the worst
things that could happen to you.”
--Michael Stoops’
National Coalition for the
Homeless

Stoops discussed the ongoing efforts of the
National Coalition for the Homeless to con-
vince congressmen of the need for legisla-
tion concerning the homeless.

“T see this as a moral test for us as to how
we treat those who are downed and out in
this country,” Stoops said.

The Coalition has lobbied for legislation
since its founding in the 1980s, when it won
a lawsuit in New York that established the
right to shelter for homeless people.

“In the winter of 1986-87, [late advocate
for the homeless] Mitch Snyder and I took it
to the streets for a six-month winter vigil,”
Stoops said. “We were living on the streets
with the homeless.”

Four months after the winter vigil,

Congress passed the Stewart McKinney —

Homeless Assistance Act, which is currently
the only legislation for the homeless.

Although the act offers support for the
homeless, Stoops said that it only provides
for emergency situations.

According to Stoops, the federal govern-
ment only spends $1.5 million to fight home-
lessness. Poverty in America has increased
by 14 percent since 2001, and children now
make up 25 percent of the homeless popula-

“We have people who are working who
are homeless,” Stoops said. “When you
graduate from college, you are going to be
facing the same problems that the working
poor are facing.”

The Coalition is currently working to pass
the Bringing America Home Act through
Congress, which Stoops said will effectively
end homelessness in this country. Fifty-five
democrats introduced the act in the last ses-
sion of Congrees, and it was reintroduced in
the current session.

According to Stoops, the act would allow
the construction of a substantial number of
low-income housing units and would pro-
vide subsidies to people in low-paying jobs.

The act, however, lacks the Republican
support that it needs to pass through
Congress.

“Americans are not working quickly
enough,” Stoops said. “We’ve been working
on certain pieces of legislation since the
1980s.”

Stoops emphasized the importance of
making poverty a key issue in the 2008 pres-
idential election. ,

Homelessness has been a serious issue in
America since the 1980s, when there were
between two and three million people living
on the streets after the Reagan administra-
tion’s tax cuts for the wealthy and entitle-
ment cuts for the poor.

“We’ve all grown accustomed to seeing
homeless people on the street,” Stoops said. |

Stoops also addressed the common mis-
perception that people choose to be home-
less.

“Nobody would ever want to be home-
less,” Stoops said. “Other than going to war,
being homeless is one of the worst things
that could happen to you.”

Stoops showed two videos of incidents of
violence, including beatings and a burning,
against homeless people.

The tapes also included an appearance
Stoops made on the Daily Show with Jon
Stewart.

Stoops condemned “bum-vertising,” a
term used by a man in California who paid
homeless people three dollars to hang adver-
tisements for his online poker business from
their signs.

«- Stoops also showed a short film by an

See Stoops, page 3

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 2006 |

CAMPUS POLICE BLOTTER

3/20/06

Martin Science Building Suspicious Person
Officer was dispatched to meet a person in response to a report dfa suspicious per-
son. The reporter said he was walking towards Chambers and observed a person in
blue jeans hiding in some shrubbery at the northwest corner of Martin Science build-
ing. As he walked by, he tried to see the subject, but was unable to see any distinctive
features. The subject spoke to him, saying something to the effect of “How are you
sir?” The person said the voice sounded like that of a white male. The reporting offi-
cer searched the area but was unable to locate any suspicious persons. The officer
advised the person to call the police office if he heard anything else or had any more
information.

3/20/06 Martin Court Fire

Officers were dispatched to Ryburn Apartment to assist the Davidson Fire
Department with a fire. The officer reported that a a curling iron had been left plugged
in and lying on some clothing. When the fire department arrived at the apartment, there
was an open flame on the clothing, and dense smoke filling the room. Fire personnel
extinguished the fire and carried the burnt articles outside, where they doused them
with water to ensure the fire had been completely extinguished. When the reporting
offiicer entered the apartment to inspect the damage, he observed a large hookah beside
the sofa, which he confiscated. Physical Plant employees were called to assess the
damage to the apartment

3/21/06 Duke Dormitory Theft

The police department received an email from the administration about a student
who reported that someone had stolen his prescription Adderall from his room. The
reporting officer went to the student’s room to investigate the incident. The student
told him that sometime prior to spring break, someone had entered his room and taken
a bottle of prescription medication, which contained approximately 40 Adderall 20 mg
XR. The student said that he had been leaving his room unlocked, and at about the

same time, other students had noticed some missing alcoholic beverages.

3/21/06 Baker Sports Center Suspicious Person

Reporting officer was dispatched to Baker Sports Center in reference to a call about
a well-dressed Hispanic female asking questions outside the building. The officer was
unable to locate the person or find out why she would be considered suspicious.

3/21/06 Erwin Lodge Suspicious Person

Officer observed a red Mitsubishi Eclipse. parked by Erwin Lodge on Grey Road,
then saw a small fire approximately 50 yards into the woods with a white male stand-
ing beside it. The subject said he was having problems with his girlfriend and needed
to get away. The officer advised him that Davidson College is private property and he
needed to. leave. The subject left without incident. The officer used the fire extinguish-
er from his patrol vehicle to put out the fire.

3/21/06

Tomlinson Dormintory Crime Prevention

Officer went to Tomlinson Dormitory in reference to a report about a group of under-
age students possibly involved in a drinking game. Upon arriving, the officer heard
noises indicating they were engaged in such activinty. When the officer knocked on
the door, the room grew silent, and an occupant of the room opened the door. The offi-
cer observed a fold-up table designed for playing drinking set up with cups of beer.
There were numerous cups and empty and near-empty beer cans in the room, and five
unopened cans of beer were confiscated. There were two people in the room with the
student who opened the door, one of whom was asleep and had not been involved in
the game. The officer asked the student to make everyone who had left the room
through the bathroom to return, and four students did so. All subjects present in the
room appeared to have been drinking; with the exception of the student who had slept
through the incident. All subjects were cooperative and polite with reporting officer.

3/21/06 Sentelle Dormitory Vice Complaint —
Officer reported to Sentelle Dormitory in reference to a report about the odor of mar-
ijuana coming from a room. The reporting officer detected the odor of marijuana com-
ing from the room, but no one answered the door. The officer contacted the hall’s RA,
who unlocked the door. Upon entering, the officer noticed a very. strong odor of mar-
ijuana in the room and observed that both windows in the room were raised, a brown
blanket was under the door and a rubber glove had been placed over the smoke detec-
tor. The officer searched the room, but no marijuana or other paraphernalia was found.
The room’s occupants were not present, but photos were taken of the room’s interior.

Students with information about campus crimes can contact Campus Police _
anonymously by logging onto www.davidson.edu/publicsafety
