Staff Editorial

Singles night? Not for ladies

The March 30 singles housing lottery resulted in an almost
even number of women and men receiving singles—49 and
51, respectively. After the lottery took place, 34 people ended
up on the waitlist. Seems pretty fair, right?

Wrong. RLO has screwed up. Again.

While there is certainly an even distribution of male and
female singles next year, many more women requested sin-
gles than men. In plain terms: all 34 people on the singles
waitlist are women. -

Under last week’s lottery, only 59 percent of women
received the singles they requested. Men fared better, as 100
percent of them received a single. This is inexcusable. RLO
should have anticipated potential gender interest disparities.
While logistical considerations must be taken into account,
RLO should have been more creative and flexible respond-
ing to student interest in single rooms.

For the Martin Court F housing lottery, students had to
submit applications before the actual selection process
began. This gave RLO time to assess student interest in
apartments. Since more men than women applied to live in F,
RLO allowed more male than female apartments. The result:
12 apartments will house men next fall and seven will house
women.

Such an approach should have been applied to the singles
lottery. Most of Davidson’s singles (64) are located in
Tomlinson Dormitory as eight-person pods. Had RLO made
an addition female pod, the percentage of females and males
who received single rooms would have been more evenly
distributed, 64 and 84 percent, respectively. Instead, RLO
took a pod that, by usual standards, would have been
reserved for women, and offered it to the men in line.

As expressed time and time again in these editorial pages,
students often perceive RLO’s decisions as arbitrary. The
handling of the singles lottery only confirms-and perpetuates
this perception. Simply put, RLO should be more aware of
student perceptions and be more fair in its decision making.

Davidson is a “residential college;” the school website
touts fact that 95 percent of students live on campus. To keep
campus residents satisfied, the school needs to do a better job
of meeting student needs.

When Duke re-opens in 2007, more singles and doubles
will be available. But the fact that sophomores will live in
senior apartments next year is a pretty clear indication that
seniors are choosing to live elsewhere. RLO’s actions in the
coming year will likely determine whether this year’s 50%
increase in off-campus residents will be the beginning of a
trend or the exception to the rule.

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LLIX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS ®

Editor-in-Chief
“Liz Barry ~
Managing Editor -
Ate’ < News Editors
Kate ie. Lexi Haipilton & Jackie MekKeon

TIVES

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 5, 2006

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

Coverage of Outpost
unjustified, biased

Last week’s cover article on the future of CoHo’s house
(“New neighbors on the Patterson Court scene,” Mar. 29)
was, for many Davidson students, an enormous disappoint-
ment.

Its discussion of organizations vying for the house was
horribly biased and completely detrimental to the process
that will soon take place as the school selects a group to fill
the vacancy. All eligible organizations who are interested in
the house will be given opportunities to appeal to CCRL for
recommendation to President Vagt.

The article inexplicably selected one of these potential
groups, the movement for a new Outpost, and shamelessly
promoted it over all others by means of a full page of nostal-
gic photos and encouragements from alumni.

The Davidsonian’s bold disregard for the other potential
groups has given these groups an overwhelming disadvan-

tage. Its article, more closely cemcatilirig an editorial than a
balanced account, conyinced readers that the Outpost is the
best option for the campus.

This perspective is as ridiculous as it is unfounded; there
are no current “leaders” in the competition for CoHo’s house
because the process has yet to even begin. I sincerely hope
that future discussion within our community of this impor-
tant matter will be notably more evenhanded, giving each
valuable student organization the respect it deserves.

Lana Sims ‘08
Former PCC Social Chair

The Davidsonian welcomes letters to the
editor. Please e-mail submissions of fewer
than 250 words to davidsonian @david-

son.edu by Sunday night. We reserve the
right to edit for content, brevity and gram-
mar. Anonymous letters will not be printed.

Consume less junk food media

By ADAM ManrrTIN
Guest Columnist

The media? A fog of talk-show pundits, government leaks,
dvertisements, press releases, entertainment shows, maga-
zines and newspapers. Some appealing to specific audiences
with overt perspectives and prejudices, some striving for
objectivity or neutrality.

The news? Car chases, extended live coverage of lottery
winners, Michael Jackson’s latest deviance, gruesome mur-
ders or boring stories about corporate takeovers, American
political maneuverings or distant, complicated conflicts.
Mostly inconsequential, disconnected stories that seem irrel-
evant to our lives.

Buried somewhere within that barrage of information are a
few genuinely important stories or real news from credible
sources. But usually at the end of the day, I can never quite
remember exactly what I learned about the world or where I
learned it, or if it was true. I don’t think I’m alone.

I think that we have forgotten
how different real news is from
all the other types of information
floating around the media.

According to a 2004 survey at the Pew Research Center for
the People and the Press, 18- to 24-year-olds are spending
less time watching, listening to or reading traditional news
sources than the same age group 10 years ago. Less than a
quarter of our age group reads a newspaper.

Sixty-eight percent of us “check in on the news from time
to time,” while “just 29 percent watch or listen at regular
times.” On the Internet, “it has become increasingly com-
mon...to come across news inadvertently while online for
other purposes...More than eight in 10 Internet users under
age 30 (82 percent) say they inadvertently come across news
online.”

More and more, we are running through the media haze,
pursuing our specific informational interests and occasional-
ly bumping into good, general news. At the same time, we are
bombarded with information and images, intentionally tar-
geted by advertisers, political commentators and others who
want to shape our interests and desires. This trend of uninten-
tional news consumption poses a significant problem for our
generation: all media becomes confused with reliable news.
We no longer hold the news apart.

This trend is even more risky in a world where not even all

supposedly credible news sources are created equal.

A 2003 report by the Program on International Policy
Attitudes at the University of Maryland about public percep-
tions of the Iraq war concluded that “a majority of Americans
have had significant misperceptions [about the war]...and
that the frequency of those misperceptions varies significant-
ly according to individuals’ primary source of news.”

The series of seven polls found overall that 80 percent of
Fox viewers, 61 percent of ABC viewers, 47 percent of print
readers and 23 percent of NPR/PBS consumers held at least
one of the following false assumptions:

1. that evidence of links between Iraq and al Qaeda has
been found,

2. that weapons of mass destruction have been discovered -
in Iraq, or -

3. that world public opinion favored the US going to war
with Iraq.

Eighty percent! The recent three-year anniversary of our
invasion of Iraq reminds us of the importance of this data. If
you aren’t intentional about seeking news, particularly from
sources with records of good reporting, then you may end up
sending your neighbors to fight in a war under false pretens-
es. You may not get the full story on social security reforms,
tax cuts or Guantanamo Bay prisoners.

So why don’t we 18- to 24-year-olds seek out news regu-
larly? The most common answer, especially around
Davidson College, is “too busy.” However, isn’t “too busy”
really another way of saying “‘it’s not a priority?”

So why don’t we recognize the value of news anymore? I
think it’s because we confuse real news gets lost in the media
haze. We no longer hold the news apart. But real news is dif-
ferent from other information in that it is built on commit-
ments to accuracy, reliability, truth-seeking and fairness.
Journalists try to provide a check to government and power.
The value of our consumption of news from credible sources
with these values to the health of our democracy cannot be
overstated.

My advice, my plea: intentionally read newspapers, in
print or online. Read “The New York Times,” “The
Economist” or “The Wall Street Journal” and listen to NPR
when you’ re in the car. Make it a priority now. Don’t be mis-
informed. Don’t wade indiscriminately through the media
haze like a zombie.

And for God’s sake, don’t watch Fox News.

Adam Martin ’06 is a political science major from Dothan,
Al. This op-ed was written for the Critical Issues of Mass
Media seminar. For more student opinion on the media, or to
respond, visit http://blogs.davidson.edu/mtblog/buckner/

The article only attributed Kota.

22 (3 -7 p.m.) and Apr. 27 (7 - 11 p.m.)

CORRECTIONS
“New sbtatibocs on the Patterson Court scene” (Mar. 29) was written by News Editor Kate Gillespie and Senior Staff Writer Emily Kota.

Vice President and Dean of Students Tom Shandley was quoted in “KA removed from campus until 2007” (Mar. 29) as saying “Frats have
been struggling with this for decades.” The quote should have read “Fraternities have been struggling with this for decades.”

A graphic on page 5 accompanying the story “Committee begins process to select Pan-Hellenic sorority” (Mar. 23) was incorrect. Instead
of printing the Zeta Phi Beta sorority letters, we printed the Phi Beta Sigma fraternity letters.

The dates of April at the Lake in “Davidson catches spring fever” (Mar. 29) were incorrect. The actual dates are hee 7 (3-7 p.m.), Apr.

