THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS _

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26, 2006 5

More students to study abroad in fall 2006

By COLLEEN MCKOwNn
Senior Staff Writer

Signs advising students to “Go
Global...Study Abroad” currently adorn the
halls and tables of Davidson’s campus.

The Study Abroad Office developed the
slogan in response to the U.S. Senate’s des-
ignation of 2006 as the “Year of Study
Abroad,” which encourages American
schools, businesses and government organi-
zations to promote and expand study abroad
programs.

About 65 percent of students in a given
graduating class studies abroad for credit at
some point during their time at Davidson.

The most popular countries are Spain,
Italy, Australia, France, England and New
Zealand.

Though many students study abroad to
improve their foreign language skills, other
factors motivate students to travel abroad.

“Although a good number of Davidson
students want to improve their skills in a lan-
guage while studying abroad, the majority of
students do not, as evidenced by the number
of students who study in Italy (in English-
speaking programs), Australia, England and
New Zealand,” Study Abroad Coordinator
Carolyn Ortmayer said.

Ortmayer cites other common reasons for
going abroad as the desire to get away from
Davidson for a while, to learn about another
culture, to broaden one’s horizons and to
gain independence.

According to Ortmayer, studying abroad is
a maturing experience for many students.
“Students tend to become more open-mind-
ed, confident and more independent,”
Ortmayer said.

A considerably higher number of
Davidson students study abroad in the fall

Students on the Tours, France program visit the Musee d’Orsay in Paris.

semester than in the spring semester.

Until a few years ago, however, a higher
number of students studied abroad in the
spring.

Ortmayer expects the trend to flip again at
some point.

During the 2005-2006 academic year, 318
students went abroad for credit.

Only 23 students studied abroad for the
whole year, 57 went in the spring, and 138
studied abroad in the fall. For the Fall 2006
semester, 165 students are planning on
studying abroad.

“Students tell us that they study abroad in
the fall because their friends are studying
abroad in the fall or they need to be back on
campus for a sport, club, course or another
activity,” Ortmayer said.

a
x

17)
®

100%

- 85%

EXPE

Congratulations Seniors!

The Senior Class Gift has

85% paid participation!

Only 27 more Gifts are needed to
set a new Senior Class Gift: —
- participation record!

Please visit our website at
www. davidson.edu/giving
to make a gift online.

CONTACT LIZ KISS AT
LIKISS@DAVIDSON.EDU
_ WITH QUESTIONS!

: Seniors, don't forget:
Wednesday, May 3rd, Senior Celebration
Hosted by President and Mrs. Vagt
5:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.

President and Mrs. Vagt's backyard

oe

reached

Generally, students study abroad their jun-
ior year.
Karimi Ruiz ’09, however, plans to study

‘in France as a sophomore for the entire

2006-2007 academic year.

“I have always been interested in France
and in the language since I can remember.
Getting to know a different way of life and
touring around Europe is an opportunity that
I cannot afford to miss,” Ruiz said.

Several seniors also advised him to stay
for the entire year since they regretted only
going for one semester.

“In order to fully appreciate a foreign cul-
ture and to learn the language the best way
possible, I’ll benefit from going for the entire
year,” Ruiz said.

Ruiz chose to study abroad his sophomore

year for academic reasons.

“I’m a Psychology/French double major,
so by getting back junior year I will be able
to focus on both of my majors, and fully
enjoy the last two years of college,” he said.

Besides Ruiz, only four other sophomores
will embark for study abroad next fall. All
four will travel with the Davidson in India
program.

Students who choose not to go abroad
often need to stay on campus all four years to
fulfill major requirements or participate in a
varsity sport.

Megal Atias ’08, an international student
from Israel, decided to remain at Davidson
instead of studying abroad like many of her
peers.

Atias participates in three Division I sports
at Davidson: cross-country, indoor track and
outdoor track. She also plans to double major
in Political Science and Religion.

“The study abroad experience looks
to contribute to a student who is
interested in challenging himself
or herself in a foreign environ-
ment.”

--Megal Atias ‘09

“The study abroad experience looks to
contribute to a student who is interested in
challenging himself or herself in a foreign
environment. To me, the past two years at
Davidson have constituted that environ-
ment,” Atias said.

Still, Atias hopes to study abroad during
one of her summers at Davidson.

“T think a summer abroad will allow for a
similar experience without having to miss
friends, sports and my amazing advisor, Dr.
Peter Ahrensdorf,” she said.

ON UNIVERSITY

Opening in Greensboro — August 2006

Now accepting application's for the charter class.

"SCHOOL OF LAW

Web site: law.elon.edu |
for complete information and online application

Toll free: (888) ELON-LAW ® E-mail: law@elon.edu

CREATING A NATIONAL MODEL OF ENGAGED
LEARNING IN LEGAL EDUCATION

® Emphases on total student development, exceptional legal knowledge and
skills, leadership and civic involvement, and international study

= Learning experiences in the area’s leading law firms, federal and state courts,
businesses, government agencies and nonprofit organizations -

® Home of the North Carolina Business Court, which handles business litigation

in the school’s courtroom and facilities

= Partner with the American Judicature Society's Institute of Forensic Science
and Public Policy, a new national organization located near the law school

