THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING

ACAA promotes Asian culture

By Katie HUNTER
Arts & Living Editor

A fireworks display on Chambers lawn is
not an event usually associated with a cam-
pus organization, but for those familiar with
Davidson’s Asian Cultural Awareness
Association (ACAA), it is hard to think of a
better way to ring in the Chinese Lunar New
Year.

The club celebrated the occasion on Feb.4
with food, festivities, and a spectacular fire-
works show that drew both students and
members of the greater Davidson communi-

ty.

“The spirit of the New Year is embodied in
the gathering of family and friends, eating,
having fun and looking forward to the com-

ing of a prosperous and healthy year,” said
club vice president Joey Chow ’06. “We
think our celebration really captured some
aspect of that.” °

One of the most active international asso-
ciations on campus, the ACAA focuses on
much more than pyrotechnics to spread its
message. Formed four years ago by current
president Sean Chan ’06 and Chow, the
organization sponsors events like the Lunar
New Year celebration in hopes of drawing
attention to persons and places often unfa-
miliar to students, especially those on a cam-
pus as_ ethnically homogenous as
Davidson’s. ,

Chow and Chan revived the ACAA four
years ago from a previous organization
called Asia3D and have been working ever
since to build up membership and hold more
events. a

One major event that the ACAA sponsored
last semester was Asian Cultural Awareness
Week, which lasted from Oct. 16 to Oct. 20.
Some of the week’s events included a lecture
on Asian pop culture by Assistant Professor
of Anthropology Fuji Lozada and a “make
your own sushi” night in the Union.

In November, the group sponsored Diwali,
the Hindu Festival of Lights. Thé event,
which symbolizes the triumph of good over
evil and the hope for humankind, featured
traditional dances, ceremonial lamp lighting,
spiritual rituals and an array of scrumptious
Indian fare.

Early this January, the organization co-
sponsored the screening of the award-win-
ning documentary “Born Into Brothels,”
which follows the stories of several Indian
children living in one of Calcutta’s poorest
and most dangerous neighborhoods.

In keeping with its current emphasis on

what are you doing this

SUMMER’?

what is the
EDGE?

what does
EDGE stand for?

* Excel in future endeavors
ow, get the
EI

Rollins College -
Crammer arc ptorid f Business

Maybe it's time to get the EDGE!
at Rollins College, Crummer Graduate School of Business.

The EDGE program is a three week business skills “boot camp” held June 12 - 30. It has
been expertly developed for Sophomores, Juniors, Seniors or recent college graduates
regardless of their undergraduate major, who are thinking about getting an MBA or are
career-focused and want to enhance their business skills,

* Explore the basic concepts and vocabulary of business through team-based projects
* Develop critical thinking skills to solve business problems and give presentations
* Grow academically while being taught by intemationally recognized Rollins MBA faculty

Join us for an information session, call for more information or apply by June 1, 2006.

INFORMATION SESSION
- SATURDAY, MARCH 25
Rollins College, Crummer Hall

RSVP
407-691-1079
businessEDGE@rolins.edu

humanitarian causes, the ACAA, along with
Dean Rusk and the student-run restaurant
P.S., will co-host Thursday’s Earthquake
Relief dinner to benefit the victims of last
year’s devastating earthquakes in Kashmir.

The menu will feature gourmet Indian
food, and after-dinner entertainment will
consist of a live dance performance. Tickets
for the event are on sale in the Union for $10.

The club plans to end the semester with a
breakdance performance in April, which
“will be one of our biggest events,” accord-
ing to secretary Alice Frimpong ’08.

“I think the most important element that
made so many of our events successful was
the members who came and helped out,” said
Chow. “With the busy schedules we have at
Davidson, it’s hard to ask everyone to help
with every event, but the fact that our club
members really do try has been a big part of
our organization’s success.”

ACAA member Nafisa Isa ’08 credited the
camaraderie among members for generating
this club dynamism.

“We really work well together, and even
events like stuffing envelopes are always
fun,” she said.

Members are also working toward some of
the club’s long-term plans, which include
getting a club SGA representative.

By sponsoring these event and working to
obtain a voice in the student government,
club members hope to represent themselves
as well as all Asians on campus.

“We want to bring awareness to modern
and current issues facing Asians and to try
and break down some of the stereotypes that
surround them,” said Frimpong.

Even if fireworks are not involved, the
ACAA’s future events will likely be as enter-
taining and enlightening as those in the past.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 2006 7

” said Concert
Committee chair Erin Doyle 08.

Despite Doyle’s enthusiasm and the
reapectible turnout at Friday’s concert,
the reality is that many shows lack in
attendance.

The Committee has high hopes for the
next concert, Rocker Bob Dylan will
headline its spring show at the Baker
Sports Arena on May 2. Tickets for the
show, which are $35 for students and $45
for the general public, go on sale
Tuesday, Mar, 21.

Even though I had initial misgivings
about The Walkmen, their eerie, low-
droning sound slowly grew on me during
the concert. I ended up enjoying it, and

feet like many other students could have,

te the SER, TSA ST dis-

ent

sontent, students should at least break out
of th “psa lgaas greasion and try

“something new.

year or the summer.

George L. Abernethy
Endowment Funds

Funds from the Abernethy Endowment will be available to support
worthy initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students.
Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad:
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during the acade:

3. Collaborative research by students and faculty. The student must
have a clearly defined independent role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited to projects that
fall within the humanities and social sciences.

For your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment supported
projects with grants up to $3,500; the average award was about $2,000.
This is a second round of Abernethy funding during which a limited
number of additional awards may be made.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice President for
Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed application forms are
| due back in this office before 5:00 p.m. on Monday, April 3, 2006.
The announcement of awards will occur on or before April 21 2006.

