4 THE DAVIDSONIAN
eee
Drought, from page 1

watering plants-a more tedious task that
required the hiring of three more full-time
employees.

Unfortunately, shallow-rooted plants and
newly germinated plants have suffered the
blight of the heat, and some did not survive
the summer.

“The Physical Plant is definitely
‘thinking green.’”
--Irwin Brawley,
Director of Property

Management and Grounds

The Physical Plant Staff continues to look
forward in its conservation efforts and has
begun plans for future initiatives.

Brawley said that Grounds Services hopes
to build a retention pond somewhere on cam-
pus to collect water runoff.

The best locations thus far appear to be
near the senior apartments, where the two
hills on which the College is situated slope
down and meet.

Davidson is in the process of improving its
long-term eco-consciousness and conserva-
tion of resources.

The new Duke Dormitory is a good exam-
ple of the College “thinking green,” as it uses
new water conserving showerheads and toi-
lets.

The water usage in dormitories and aca-
demic and social facilities has not been offi-
cially affected by the drought, but students,
faculty and staff can still help the communi-
ty conserve more water by using less in daily
life.

Students often do not realize how much
water they are using everyday. Faucets, like
those found in many dorms, normally run at
the rate of three to five gallons a minute,
while shower heads use up to 10 gallons a

SEPTEMBER 19

infoesuedishprogram.org (315)

vistory m esychology sociology

riln m environmental studies m women’s studies
public policy m Literature m economics

politics m art History

COME TO AN INFORMATIONAL MEETING
4 P.M.

1f you are unable to attend this meeting,
please contact your study abroad advisor or
the swedish program, Hamilton college, 198 college Hill road,
clinton, neu vork 13323 ‘

73740123 uy

NEwsS

. ine,
minutes. A five-minute shower requires Irom

25 to 50 gallons of water; toilets flush five to
seven gallons every time.

In fact, bathroom fixtures account for
about 75 percent of all the water consumed
in a household.

For off-campus students or those in senior
apartments, dishwashers use at least 15 gal-
lons of water, so the washer needs to be as
full or near to full as possible every time it is
run.

Finally, it might not be surprising to stu-
dents that laundry is the biggest guzzler of
the world's greatest natural resource-each
load requires 50 or more gallons of water.

Dr. Chris Paradise, Associated Colleges of
the South Environmental Faculty Fellow and
Environmental Action Coalition Advisor,
suggested that students can help the cause by
“taking shorter showers, not flushing after
every urination [and] not leaving water run-
ning while shaving or brushing teeth.”

Essentially, students should be aware of
the water they use and attempt not to be
wasteful.

Students can help by “taking shorter
showers, not flushing after every uri-
nation [and] not leaving water run-
ning while shaving or brushing
teeth.”-
--Dr Chris Paradise,
Professor of Biology

New College President Tom Ross also
supports conservation on campus.

He praised Davidson efforts thus far to
lower levels of unnecessary waste, but added
that there is still more that can be done.

“A commitment to sustainability is impor-

‘tant, not just to be part of the crowd, but to

improve the way we live here,” Ross said.
“It's an important priority for me, and I think
it needs to be an important priority for the
institution.”

STUDY AGROAD OFFICE

-suedishprogram.org’

ai

ey

A slip-and-slide for freshman halls was cancelled due to the drought restrictions.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Town meetings yet to address some issues

By ALIssA CURRAN
Staff Writer

A heated discussion about the West
Davidson community took place at the
Davidson Stakeholders Committee last
night.

The Davidson Stakeholders Committee is
a diverse group of town residents whose pur-
pose is to preserve the well-being of West
Davidson residents in the midst of recent
construction in the area.

Lauren Blackburn, a concerned citizen,
proposed that a real estate counseling service
be offered to Davidson residents free of
charge. This service would help residents
understand the terms of their -offer and
whether they are being given the value they
deserve for their property.

Rev. Dora DuBose, of the Davidson
Stakeholders Committee, believes there is
more at issue than educating a neighborhood.

“The real problem is gentrification,”
DuBose said. “It’s frightening. If we look at
this issue, we know who’s being targeted:
African-Americans in West Davidson.”

DuBose said residents should be taught
not only how to sell their homes but given an
option to keep them as well, despite rapidly
increasing taxes as a result of the influx of
commercial development in Davidson.

Currently, there is a division in the West
Davidson neighborhood between those who
would like to sell their homes and those who
would like to stay.

“It’s an issue of fairness,” Margo
Williams, another town commissioner, said.
“Neighborhood preservation versus maxi-
mum property values. If-we preserve the
neighborhood, property values will not be at
their maximum.”

DuBose plans on writing a rebuttal letter
to the report from the Davidson African-
American Coalition.

