Staff Editorial

ELL Yipee

_ Basketball ‘support needs support

te ts a ‘great day to be a Wildcat!” ;
Many school leaders have recently uttered. this semi~.
corny exclamation. With a new president, a new financial
aid plan eliminating student loans and a stellar men’s bas--
‘ketball program that has broken into the national scene,
Davidson is taking great pride in its brand night now. 2.2"
The Wildcat Red and Black made us all proud when
“USA Today” proclaimed that.at Davidson top-notch aca-
demics. and top-notch athletics. go hand-in-hand.° The
-Mmen’s. basketball team has given the College a prime
“opportunity to prove that academics, honor and excep
-tional athletic accomplishment can coexist in harmony.
«©. But. not everything is.so happy: down in the Athletic
Department. The national attention is. pushing. the:
employees who make everything work to their max. Ase
¢ Davidson basketball. attracts. more. fans, the demand for.
better game operations, brand marketing, media releases, |
broadcasting technology and efficieney has pushed the.
already underfunded department to its limit.
-, Over the past 10 years, the administration has increased
‘the College’s national appeal by upgrading campus facil-~
ities, investing more in the faculty and eliminating student.
loans, It’s now time to turn our eyes to athletics. -
With the descent of the national media on the men’s’
basketball program, Davidson’s. sports information
| department has given less time. to the 20 other varsity:
Sports on campus to ensure that it meets all media
demands, With advertisers and. television media outlets
calling for Wildcat- marketing materials, the athletics:
department marketing office (which doubles as the head
_of game operations, merchandise and broadcast technolo-
" gy) has enlisted the help of an already overworked staff to
_meet the demand. The athletic ticket office, the physical
plant support staff and the coaching staffs of the athletic
,, teams have gone above and beyond their job descriptions
«to keep up with the rising tide of men’s basketball hoopla.
Even students have been negatively affected as every few:
« days they move their cars off-campus to accommodate the 7
« burgeoning attendance at the games. a :
» The College must develop a plan to deal with parking,
_ understaffed departments and, the other demands that
zmajor college basketball puts on an institution. Funding
_should go towards marketing Davidson in the sports
_ world so that we may reap the economic benefits of an
_ excellent basketball team. The profit margin of such an
investment would more than recoup the initially diverted
«funds. Already,; Stephen Curry . jerseys are available
_ online, but we need to keep taking steps like these...
== When Appalachian State beat Michigan to start the col-
- Jege football season, the University’s athletic department
_was swamped with people who wanted a piece of the
action. The same happened to George Mason a few years
. ago. Now the same has happened to Davidson, and we.
#need to capitalize on this moment.

Che Bavibsonian

5 ALENDA | TLIX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo
News Editors
‘Alissa Curran, Monica Jamouneau & Chris Moore
Perspectives Editors
“Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren
Arts & Living Editors
_— Jennifer Errington & Mike: Wellman.
Yowl Editors ..
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
. Sports Editors
Will Bryan & Patrick McArdte
Photography Editor
Ben Elinor A
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Halley Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic yeat

by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student, Please 4 @
_ address all correspondences to; The. Davidsonian, PO, Box.71182,

avidson, NC 28035-7182.

mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu.. Our offices are located in

oom 411 of the Alvarez College Union.. Opinions expressed in.
letters to the editors or commentaries do nof necessarily reflect th

iews of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions.

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
NOVEMBER 14, 2007

Faulty rules compromise soldiers’ safety

On June 28, 2005, four Navy
SEALs were dropped in the
Hindu Kush_ region’ of
Afghanistan on the disastrous
1 Operation Redwing mission to
eliminate a terrorist leader. Two
| weeks ago I wrote about the hero-
ics of the commander of that mis-
sion, Lt. Michael P. Murphy. This
week I want to tell the story of the
only man who survived that mis-
sion—if that is the correct word.
— wad One of his SEAL comrades died
. Bossy DesPain in his arms. He suffered through
the dying screams of another and was blown out of a hole
with the third. The firefight was just the beginning. He then
crawled for miles with shattered legs, was tortured and
became violently ill, but he survived. This man is Petty
Officer First Class Marcus Luttrell, Navy Cross recipient.
His book, “Lone Survivor,” details his SEAL training,
Operation Redwing and its aftermath.

SEALs are the ultimate warriors. Their training ensures
that they can snipe, demolish and save. They are pushed past
the max, then further. They run around carrying telephone
poles and do pushups in the surf. While the physical chal-
lenge is daunting, the mental aspect is downright “Everest.”
Thus, be assured that the four SEALs of Operation Redwing
(Danny Dietz, Matthew Axelson, Murphy and Luttrell) were
the highest caliber soldiers and men. What’s terrible is that
it is almosy certain that none of the SEALs would have died
if they had trusted their instincts.

Soon after their drop in the Afghan mountains, three
goatherds stumbled on their position. The SEALs immedi-
ately detained the three and discussed their options. All four
soldiers knew that the correct course of action was to kill the
goatherds because the risk of releasing them was too high.

They would no doubt blow the SEALs’ cover. The Geneva
Convention and the U.S. Armed Forces Rules of
Engagement prohibited these men’s death. Common sense,
the success of the mission and the soldiers’ survival
demanded the deaths. The SEALs decided to let the men go
because the deaths could result in weeks of hateful coverage
by the liberal U.S. media and a murder trial. The SEALs
immediately regretted their decision and paid for it with
their lives.

Doubt really needs to be cast on certain clauses of the
Geneva Convention and the military’s Rules of Engagement
when they are actively harming soldiers. These clauses have
very little value for the United States in the war on terrorism.
Who are they helping? Terrorists, who value them greatly.
Terrorists of course do not follow the rules but use them to
escape punishment. Captured terrorists cry “torture” and
immediately become media darlings. However, when
American soldiers are captured they are beheaded, set on
fire, dragged through the streets or even, in the case of
Matthew Axelson, shot in the face from six inches with an
AK-47.

Thus, 1 would propose a new series of rules and revisions
to the Geneva Convention and Rules of Engagement based
on the current war: rules with less Congressional influence
and more military influence. It is easy to sit in the Capitol
and demand that our soldiers hold fire until they have been
shot at or obtain proof of identity and intentions. Terrorists
do everything they can to hide their identity. They do not
wear uniforms, and they hide in schools, behind women and
children and in hospitals. The United States’ current guide-
lines do not work in this war. New rules need to be estab-
lished that put our soldier’s safety first, not the safety of ter-
rorists, first.

Bobby DesPain ’1l is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

Davidson town planning sustains old, welcomes new

Kris KRIDER
Planning Director, Town of Davidson

Planning in Davidson is based around the town’s mission
statement, which embraces sustainability, diversity and a
pedestrian-friendly community. In April 2003, the Davidson
Town Board adopted the Circulation and Connectivity Plan.
This document was the product of an intensive transporta-
tion planning exercise completed by the Circulation
Stakeholders Committee, an appointed task force including
representatives from town staff, downtown merchants,
industry, North Carolina Department of Transportation
(NCDOT) and Davidson College. A Davidson grad,
Meredith Judy, was the project manager. The overarching
concept was about being connected, getting around and
mobility for all ages and all types—walking, biking, driving.
It was urban design and land use planning influenced by cir-
culation patterns.

Traffic calming was essential because vehicles were going
to use multiple means of getting to the same place through a
network of streets. Connectivity is good at dispersing traffic
but has a reputation for promoting “cut-thru’s.” That argu-
ment was vetted in the draft planning exercise, and the com-
mittee agreed that the negative amount of cut-through traffic
was minimal compared to the alternative, a four lane high-
way through the middle of town.

But the act of putting the plan together was also about
people; who we are, how we interact. It was about facilitat-
ing community-mindedness, whether through chance
encounters at the post office, walking to school or walking
to a Davidson College basketball game. Connectivity builds
community. Today, such efforts are being manifested
through diverse efforts such as DavidsonWalks, the
Southeast Greenway, building the roundabouts on Griffith
Street and a new connection to the Bailey Road Middle
School.

While the Circulation Plan considered primarily streets,
sidewalks and greenways, its inspiration lay in our attempt
to remain connected as a people while the town grew. We
felt it was critical for a kid to be able to walk to his friend’s
house instead of asking for a ride. We felt that dispersing
traffic through a variety of neighborhood street connections
was superior to widening Main Street to four lanes, which
NCDOT was determined to do. We believed smart growth
was about compact, mixed use development, with parking in
the rear and buildings on the street, inviting pedestrians and
slowing down the traffic. Why is connectivity so important?
It’s in our blood. What distinguishes Davidson from most
towns in America is the fact that we are a very involved and
opinionated community. The recent election posted a greater

than 50% turnout in a non-presidential election year, which
is almost unheard of. Our volunteerism is strong, our sense
of place is powerful and our identity, memorable.

The role of the Planning and Urban Design Department
has been to champion connectivity. How do we do it?
Through charrettes, regional transportation planning initia-
tives like the commuter rail and our planning ordinance. As
stated in the town planning ordinance, “Old neighborhoods
must be interconnected via new streets and greenways, and
new neighborhoods must connect to adjacent neighborhoods
and undeveloped property.”

For example, in subdivision design we require the devel-
oper to design and build street connections to all adjoining
property owners. We require a variety of house lot sizes so
that no one subdivision becomes a repetition and redundant
representation of one architectural style (i.e. sprawl). In the
rural area, when someone wants to develop they must set
aside nearly 50% of the land to remain undeveloped forever.
Ideally this land is in a conservation easement like the one
the Davidson Lands Conservancy has obtained for the
Abersham neighborhood off Grey and Shear Roads. In most
cases it is common open space along creeks and hillsides. .

And in town, the plan is to promote mixed use infill devel-
opment that both compliments our history and also encour-
ages transit oriented development with higher densities. Like
a seamstress, our challenge is to knit old and new together.

What is now named Harbour Place was the first develop-
ment at what is frequently called Exit 30. Its complex plan
represents the manifestation of our Planning Ordinance with
regard to new development. The plan requires 50% open
Space consisting of a nine-acre nature preserve, a seven acre
pond and landscaped park, soccer fields and a gymnasium.
The Harbour Place master plan has a rich mixture of uses: a
hotel, restaurants, class A office space, retail shops, town-
homes and condominiums. This is just one of about 10other
mixed use projects such as the Harris Teeter.

The fiscal magnitude of this development is great. The
financial benefit has been estimated at $3.5 million in addi-
tional taxes annually for the Town’s General Fund, which
will then be used to continue quality of life improvements
such as greenways and sidewalks, open space acquisition
and public art. Exit 30 is economic development in action.

These are just a few examples of the many ways efforts to
improve connectivity, both at a physical and personal level,
have created new roles. Through good planning, design ordi-
nances and growth management, the town is the master
developer. Today, the outcome of this collaborative hard
work is reflected in a series of connected streets and new
development intermingled with old, taking shape all around
us. This is what planning in Davidson is all about.
