2 THE DAVIDSONIAN
ee

Fountain, from page 1

M: Moving on to education, what are the
first steps that the Town Board could take to
improve the condition of the schools?

F: Communicating. Not only with the
school board itself but with the county gov-
emment as well so that they understand
we’re serious about this. I want to be a part
of that conversation. I want to spend some
time figuring out who these people are that
we need to go talk to at the county level, as
well as the school commissions and the
PTA’s. School staff has a vested interest as
well. All of these things need to be commu-
nicated to the county. It’s a matter of being
tenacious and saying, “Hey, here we are.”

M: What do you feel has not worked in the
past regarding communication about our
schools?

F: Communication has been sporadic. It’s
not maintained. We’ll be upset about some-
thing for a couple of months and then we
think they’ ve taken care of the issue and get
complacent.

M: Do you support the development and
growth of Davidson?

F: Yes. It has to come. First of all, the
development of the town will provide us
with commercial property which will help
alleviate our dependence on residential prop-
erty for our tax base.

Secondly, how else are you going to main-
tain the so-called diversity of business and
community? If you don’t provide people
who are of a different economic level the
opportunity to work in their community then
why be here?

M: Is there any way to prevent the devel-
opment from increasing property values and
driving out the diversity of historic
Davidson? Or is it somewhat inevitable?

F: Weil, it’s never going to be something
that you can just stop. But I honestly believe
that if the community as a whole wants to
maintain it, and they come fogether, it can be
done. There is a portion of this community
that can actually approach the town. They
have to decide as a community that’s what
they want and, in doing so, I think that his-.
toric Davidson can be saved.

M: Do you have any specific ideas that
you feel would help ease the impact of the
development process?

F: I ask for corporate bodies to consider
hiring a percentage of people from the com-
munity instead of immediately looking to
other stores in other areas. I think it’d be a
better pay off for the community. It’s some-
body who lives night here and you get to see
them every day. I think the service quality
will be a lot better then someone who has no
ties to the community.

M: Any other specific ideas?

F: Well, when we’re doing re-zoning, a lot
of times the notification comes in the paper,
or it comes from the developer knocking on
your door.

My idea is that town staff could be
assigned to specific areas and, if something
is happening in their area, then it’s the town
staffer’s responsibility to go out and knock
on somebody’s door and talk to them about
it. Not just walk through with the developer
during the planning phase. Go knock on the
door and tell them what’s being planned for
the area, the pros and cons, and just talk to

Be responsible.

Over the last two weeks, the College has had an incident of damaged walls and light-
ing in Richardson Dormitory, a lamp post damaged near Commons, at least three persons
transported to the hospital due to severe intoxication, several reports of golf cart theft and
reckless golf cart driving and five bicycles reported stolen and/or borrowed.

The number of bikes reported missing has increased by 10 percent this year compared
to last year. Although most bicycles have been found, taking someone else’s property
without permission is still theft in the eyes of the law.

NEwsS

them and hear what they have to say. Too
often this happens after the development
process has already begun. They come in
asking after the fact and then it’s too late.
That’s not fair. Not everybody has email. Not
everybody looks at the little piece of paper
posted up on a light post.

M: Do you feel like if you reach out to
people they will respond? If you hold a
meeting do you think they’ll come?

F: If you hold a meeting some may come
but there will always be a large majority
missing. So I’m saying we should go above
and beyond to make sure they understand
what’s happening and to try and communi-
cate with them. Even if they dislike the
process or what’s getting ready to happen,
they begin to respect that we’re talking to
them. The community begins to respect that.
We're a small enough town that we can do
this.

M: How do you see the development of
Davidson as a commuter rail stop impacting
other aspects of the community? For exam-
ple, crime rates?

F: Well, this is definitely something that
we need to make sure we are prepared for. If
you know what’s coming, and you know
you’re going to have that transient popula-
tion coming in, you’re going to have folks
who are going to be taking advantage of that.
Furthermore, our stop will be a final drop off
point. I’m not crazy about that idea. People
are going to come and then hang around.
You’ve got to look at what type of security
and human services systems you’re going to
have. I know that the system will have its
own security, but how far does that extend?
Will it actually involve our department?

M: What about the effect of area develop-
ment on traffic?

F: Four lane roadways are just so unattrac-
tive. I would be more apt to push for public
transportation than I would roadways right
here. What they’re doing currently is con-
necting smaller roads outside of the main
arteries, which makes sense. .

M: How do you think this traffic increase
affects people?

F: I know for some people, especially
those folks who have been here their whole
life, it’s terrible. They definitely have never
dealt with this before. But, more than 50% of
this community is from somewhere else.

M: So would you be more apt to promote
dealing with the traffic than you would
building a four lane road?

F: Honestly, yes. At this point in time I
would.

M: How do you feel about general
Colliege/Town relations? Do you see room
for improvement?

F: I think we ought to host more events
that invite community members. A good por-
tion of our campus staff lives right here in
Davidson. I think we definitely ought to host
events to draw community members in. I
know that the College would like to have
that relationship. It was a lot stronger years
ago. I don’t see any reason why it can’t go
back to that point, and I definitely want to
have something to do with that. When it’s all
working together it’s just so wonderful.

The Davidsonian strongly encourages all
students to vote in the mayoral and town
board elections on November 6. As Chief
Walker says, “we are one community.”

Forum, from page I

The forum then turned to specific ques-
tions. Among the issues raised were the Exit
30 ramps, diversification of the town’s tax
revenue, the overcrowded schools, the light
rail system, improvements to Main Street
and the town’s newly-adopted cable system

On the first subject, Jackson and Woods
agreed that the ramps are subpar. They did
not agree, however, on Exit 30 itself. True to
his anti-development stance,

Jackson held that the exit is not architec-
turally consistent with the rest of the town
and that it is “rapidly changing” Davidson.
Woods meanwhile spoke highly of the proj-
ect, saying “that Exit 30 will prove a model
of [development].”

According to Woods, 83 percent of the
town’s tax revenue comes from taxes on res-
idential properties. Woods wants to diversify
tax revenue, presumably to make life more
affordable for citizens.

“Yt would be wonderful if people could
live and work in this town,” Woods said.

Jackson had his own ideas. “I would like
to see us mandate that jobs at Exit 30...go to
the citizens of this town,” he said.

The light rail then became a subject of
debate. Woods views it as rational solution to
the area’s traffic problems.

“We cannot build enough roads,” Woods
said. “There is no money to build roads. That
is a fact.”

Jackson meanwhile stressed again how
development will change the area.

“You haven’t seen anything yet,” Jackson
told the crowd in reference to the develop-
ment projects that Jackson claims that the

Lecture, from page 1

tive wild,’ because I was always careful not
to get arrested,” Brown said, poking a bit of
fun at himself. .

While caution was normally one of
Brown’s hallmarks, he was arrested during a
protest at Columbia following the assassina-
tion of Martin Luther King, Jr. To protest the
University’s decision to expand the campus
onto a local Harlem park, thousands of stu-
dents occupied the main academic building

. for several days. .

After his time in NYC, Brown became a
union member coal miner in Pennsylvania,
where his protest experience proved valuable
in the miners’ strikes in which he participat-
ed. He later moved to Washington, D.C.,
where he worked as a teacher.

Brown commended the work of young
people who recently traveled to Jena,
Louisiana to protest racial injustice there, but
he also urged audience members to become
more active.

“You have to find ways to step up and
fight for a more livable world, just as we did
40 years ago,” Brown said.

Be LS alec A,

as

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007

Town Board has planned for Davidson.

Regarding Main Street, Jackson wants to
see Davidson’s main thoroughfare remain as
is. Woods, on the other hand, said that “the
street has a long way to go to make it viable”
and that he wants “to attract DC students and
other young people” to the area.

According to davidsonnews.net, the
town’s recent buyout of the cable system, for
which Mooresville and Davidson just
received permission to borrow as much as
$80 million, is another contentious topic.
Some view the project as a wise investment
that will give the town more control over its
cable system while others view it as an over-
reach of the town’s authority and a financial
disaster waiting to happen.

Woods falls into the former camp, calling
the endeavor “a very makeable financial
project for us.” Jackson, conversely, called
the project “a cockamamie idea” and said
that “you can’t make a silk’s purse out of a
sow’s ear.”

In his closing statements, Woods stressed
small town values and the need for everyone
to work together. Jackson meanwhile, in a
more lively way, said that he was “a
Jacksonian populist,” urged candidates to
“choose quality of life over... growth” and
closed by paraphrasing comedian W.C.
Fields.

“All in all,” Jackson said, “Tonight I'd
rather be in Cleveland.”

Information regarding all of the Town
Board candidates can be found in “Meet the
Town Board Candidates.” Elections will take
place on Nov. 6. Students can vote through
same-day voter registration.

Alice Hageman, the other civil rights
activist speaker that evening, opened by
encouraging students to embrace the unex-
pected. .

“Open yourself to the idea that life may
take you down byways you never imagined,”
Hageman said.

Raised in a conservative Protestant home,
Hageman was not exposed to other ideolo-
gies until a trip to Communist Cuba in 1969
opened her eyes to another world.

“In crossing the ideological boundary, I
was exposed to the humanity of those on the
other side,” Hageman said, stressing the
importance of “recognizing shared humanity
of those from cultures other than our own.”

Upon finishing their respective speeches,
Brown and Hageman fielded a flood of ques-
tions from students, faculty and others in
attendance. The audience’s enthusiasm
impressed Professor of History Ralph
Levering.

“It was the best lecture in terms of student
response I’ve seen in 37 years,” he said.

The History and Philosophy departments
and the Bonner Scholar Program sponsored
the event.

