THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEWS

Be safe, vaccinate early
at student health center

By: JEssicA ANDREWS
Health Advisor

The Health Center is offering a new vac-
cine for women called Gardasil, which pro-
tects women against the Human papillo-
mavirus (HPV)- a virus that can lead to cer-
vical cancer. The vaccine has demonstrated
an enormous success rate.

“The vaccine is one of the easiest things
that a woman can do to protect herself,” Jan
Poole, R.N. and Supervisor of Student
Health, said. “It is right up there with the
yearly check-up.”

Genital HPV is passed through direct skin-
to-skin contact, including oral and anal sex,
as well as through genital-to-genital contact.
Genital HPV is very common, and most
health officials agree that it is the most com-
mon sexually transmitted infection. Most
sexually active people are thought to have it
at some point during their lives.

“The HPV vaccine has been shown to be
nearly 100 percent effective at blocking
infection with the ‘high-risk’ HPV types
found in 70 percent of cervical cancers and
additionally protects against the ‘low-risk’
types that cause most genital warts,”
Poole.said.

The vaccine is currently approved for use
in females 9-26 years of age, but the Center
for Disease Control recommends it as a rou-
tine vaccination for females age 11-12.

Ideally the vaccine is given before sexual
activity begins, but females who are already
sexually active should still be vaccinated.

College-age women are at a perfect age to
begin this vaccination. Even if a woman is
not planning to become sexually active,
health professionals still recommend the
vaccination, because it is highly effective,
and side effects are rare.

Studies are currently underway to deter-
mine whether the vaccine can be used with
men.

There are three shots in the Gardasil vac-
cination process. The first shot is delivered
after a quick check-up and discussion with a
physician. The second shot is then given two
months later and the third, four months after
that. The last two injections are simply given
by a nurse.

“The HPV vaccine has been shown

to be nearly 100 percent effective.”
--Jan Poole, R.N..

Supervisor of Student Health

While the injections are in a series of
three, they can be administered from any
medical location. It is convenient to have the
injections at the Student Health Center.

If the Gardasil vaccination is begun early
in the semester, all three injections can be
acquired at Davidson.

“The Student Health Center charges $125
per shot,” Poole said. “We pay a few dollars
Jess than that for each dose and only add on
a couple of dollars to offset the cost of the
syringe, needle, alcohol swab, Band Aid,

nurse time, etc. This is much less than most
private offices would charge for the shot, but
the Student Health Center does not file with
insurance. We cannot possibly be a part of all
of the insurance networks from 50 states and
other countries. We place the $125 charges
on the student’s tuition bill.”

Students typically file the cost of the vac-
cination with their insurance companies, and
most are reimbursed.

Any student wishing to obtain the Gardasil
vaccine should call the Health Center and
request an appointment. The procedure is
very brief, and the pain is minimal compared
to the effects of HPV or cervical cancer.

It is also imperative for all students to
receive the influenza vaccine. Flu season in
the United States typically ranges from
November until March, and the flu can
spread rapidly at any time, especially during
those months.

“Our dates for administering flu shots this
year at the Student Union are Thursday, Nov.
8 and Wednesday, Nov. 14 from 10 a.m. to 4
p.m,” Poole said. In the Union, students can
obtain their vaccine in a relaxed setting with
beverages, cake and comfort from caring stu-
dents and staff.

“Students should understand that
sometimes vaccines are hard and
maybe a little painful, but they are
necessary. We will do our best to
make vaccination experiences as
comfortable as possible.”
--Georgia Ringle,
Health Educator

Flu shots will be available before that time
and afterwards on a walk-in basis at the
Student Health Center. The cost of the shot is
$20, and that cost will be placed on a stu-
dent’s tuition bill.

“Influenza spreads from an infected per-
son to the nose or throat of another person
and is highly contagious. As you can imag-
ine, classrooms and dormitories are ideal set-
tings for the rapid communication of the flu
from person to person,” Poole said. “The
influenza virus changes slightly each year, so
it is necessary to get a fresh shot each year.
Especially when keeping up with Davidson
commitments, no student can afford to even
risk this illness.”

“Students should understand that some-
times vaccines are hard and maybe a little
painful, but they are necessary. We will do
our best to make vaccination experiences as
comfortable as possible,” Health Educator
Georgia Ringle said.

Despite the little bit of pain or inconven-
jence that accompanies vaccinations, one
must consider the alternative; a sore arm is
preferred to a severe illness any day.

Students must remember to be smart, be
responsible and be sure to get vaccinated
early this fall.

The Health Center can answer questions.

Forum, from page 1
workload and responsibility each student has
at Davidson.

According to Zwieryznski, professors
could be attempting to deflate grades with
the difficulty of their classes, as well as
obtain tenure and the reputation as a tough
grader.

Kallman said she heard a student, talking
about the workload of his classes, say, “I
can’t wait until J graduate so I can read all
these [books], because it looks really inter-
esting.”

“Wow,” Kallman said, “is your education
going to start after graduation from
Davidson?”

The committee agreed that pressure to
deflate grades would be detrimental to actu-
al education.

The Academic Policy Committee has also
created a blog on Blackboard in order for
students to voice their concerns. The com-
mittee encourages participation because, as
White said, “Students do have the power to
make some changes.”

Students can contact the Academic Policy
Committee with questions or suggestions.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19 2007 2
~~ ius ae

SGA discusses the Jena 6
protest, other concerns

By KATE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s Student Government
Association (SGA) meeting, senators debat-
ed a proposal to allow students studying
abroad. to serve on SGA and approved a
motion to find financial aid for Davidson
students traveling to Jena for the protests.

Students present at the meeting discussed
ways for the campus to respond to the “mod-
ern-day lynching” incident that occurred last
year.

In September 2006, black high school stu-
dents sat under a “whites-only” tree. The
next day, there were three nooses hanging
from the tree.

A fight broke out in December 2006, and
one of the black students, Mychal Bell, was
consequently charged with aggravated
assault despite having used a shoe in the
fight. His hearing was scheduled for
September 20. At a discussion sponsored by
the BSC last week, 45 Davidson students
signed up to travel to Louisiana for a protest
that day.

The second-degree battery charges were
dropped on Saturday, but senators discussed
how to support these Davidson student pro-
testors in the meeting on Thursday.

“We can’t just talk about things,”
President Chris Burton said. “When are we
going to take that potential and make it
something practical? That whole situation is
just a microcosm for greater tension down
there that we as student leaders must voice
some kind of opinion on.”

According to Whitney White ’08, there
were over 90 people at the discussion at one
point. This number included 1] faculty and
staff members, who, White said, “looked at
us as future leaders and wanted to know
what we were going to do.”

The Davidson group plans to leave cam-
pus at 5:30 p.m. Wednesday evening and
leave Lousiana immediately after the trial so
as not to incur hotel expenses. They will
arrive back at Davidson on Friday morning.

Burton asked SGA to approve a motion to
find a way to cover the expenses of this trip.

“This is where we really earn our salt,”
Burton said. “We have to make sure that
we’re shining that light outward and not just
inward.”

SGA approved the motion, and Burton
said he would talk to President Tom Ross.

In other proceedings, Senator Mordecai
Scott °10 and former senator A.J.
Hergenroeder ’08 asked senators to consider
changing the by-laws so that senators who
wanted to go abroad could still put their
names on the SGA ballot.

Hergenroeder and Scott said that the cur-
rent SGA policy discourages students who
want to serve on student government from
going abroad.

Hergenroeder, who was junior class presi-
dent last year, resigned when he went abroad
in the spring.

He claimed, however, that he was still
actively engaged in SGA activity during his
time abroad. He corresponded with Registrar

Hansford Epes and Dean of Faculty Clark
Ross regarding a policy to limit the number
of tests a student can take per day.

According to Scott, one of the presidential
candidates on the 2007 ballot was allowed to
run despite having exceeded the number of
permitted absences in SGA. He argued that
since this unqualified person was still
allowed to run, senators serving abroad
should be allowed to run as well.

Many senators disagreed with Scott and
Hergenroeder’s proposal.

“The purpose of the senate is to represent
the student body in a forum,” Treasurer
Blake Poole ’08 said. “If you can’t be in that
forum because you are abroad, it’s difficult
to serve your constituency with the tenacity
that one can have in this body.”

Hergenroeder said, “What’s done outside
the meetings is the most important part of
what you do as a senator,” and he also sug-
gested the possibility of abroad senators
casting their votes through e-mail.

Christie Mason 10 raised several other
objections. She said that attendance policies
in the by-laws would also have to be revised
since abroad senators would miss every
meeting.

Mason also pointed out that many students
studying abroad do not have regular e-mail
access.

“The lifestyle isn’t the same, so you can’t
be checking your e-mail all the time,” Mason
said. “It’s also about having your finger on
the pulse of the campus. Students can’t read-
ily come talk to you. It’s just not as feasible
to represent the students.”

Other SGA business included an update
from Scott about buses for the basketball
games against UNC and Duke.

Scott asked Poole for $1,000 to make a
deposit on the buses, which works out to a
$100 deposit for each of the five buses.

SGA will get this money back if it choos-
es to drop one of the buses during the
add/drop grace period that lasts up to 10 days
before the actual game date.

Vice President Davis Greene ’09 contin-
ued work on the Real Talk Ballot Project by
showing senators a draft of the ballot. The
issues included on this ballot were alcohol
policy, diversity, environmental policy, men-
tal illness, sexual misconduct policy, town
development and the Honor Code.

Both Brandon Davenport ’09 and White
gave committee updates.

Davenport’s Auxiliary Services
Committee plans to advocate for Muslim
students fasting for Ramadan who wish to
use their meal plans after normal hours.

White reported on the success of her
Academic Affairs Committee’s first forum
last week, saying that future discussions will
focus on professors being pressured to
deflate grades and the difference between
learning and excessive reading.

The committee’s blog is also up on
Blackboard, available to every student on
campus. One student has already posted a
complaint about not getting enough academ-
ic credit for labs.

The blog can be found at blackboard.edu.
