THE DAVIDSONIAN

The Wildcat Pulse

English, Bye-Nagel lead
women’s soccer to victory

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

Kyri Bye-Nagel °10 eamed her second
Conference Player of the Week Award as she
recorded three goals and one assist to lead
Davidson to victories over Elon and
Chattanooga. With the wins, Davidson
moved up to second place in the conference
and now sports a 7-1-1 conference record.

The Wildcats host Georgia Southern on
Thursday’s Senior Day game before hosting
a quarterfinal game of the Southern
Conference Tournament on Sunday after-
noon.

Last Thursday’s win did not come easily
for the Wildcats. Davidson battled torrential
rains and cold temperatures but came out
with a 2-0 victory. The Wildcats’ first score
came off a corner kick from Nancy Haskell
08 to Suzanne Sittko "10 who headed the
ball into the net. The score was Sittko’s
fourth of the year and third in the last four
games. Bye-Nagel finished off the scoring
with a second half goal.

With the shutout, Bevin English 08 set a
new school record for most shutouts in a
career.

With the Wildcats’ 4-0 victory on Sunday,
English now has a league-leading and
school-record nine shutouts on the season
and has recorded 20 shutouts over the last
four years. English’s 0.85 GAA (goals
against average) is also tops in the league.

“None of those numbers mean anything if
they don’t represent the talent of the defen-

sive players in front of me,” English said.
“They certainly deserve some of the credit.”

Davidson will honor its seniors in
Thursday’s regular-season finale against
Georgia Southern. English, Haskell and
Kristen Koehrn ’08 will graduate as the win-
ningest class in women’s soccer history with
at least 49 wins.

Williams leads football to
44-32 road victory at Butler

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Head coach Tripp Merritt called last
week's win over Drake “one of the biggest
victories in his career with Davidson foot-
ball.”

However, the Wildcats did not lose focus
this past Saturday as they convincingly
knocked off Butler on the road, 44-32.

Ryan Alexander ’08 continued his rewrit-
ing of the Davidson record books, and the
Davidson offense amassed 457 yard of total
offense.

The ‘Cats faced an early deficit after the
Bulldogs opened the game with a 10-play,
75-yard drive that resulted in a Matt Kobli
one-yard. touchdown run. Jordan Quiroz’s
converted the point after to give the home
team the early 7-0 advantage.

Davidson (5-3, 3-2) evened the score at 7-
7 late in the first quarter when running back
Justin Williams ’11 darted into the end zone
from eight yards out to cap an impressive 11-
play, 94-yard drive. The touchdown was the
beginning of a huge day for the freshman as
he became the third Wildcat, joining Chad
Barnes ’09 and Kenny Mantuo ’11, to rush

ee ae te

Mark Rackley, Davidson’s local Allstate Agent is
proud to announce sponsorship of the Allstate
“Good Hands Halftime Shootout.”

Two lucky contestants (students included)
will receive a chance to win $10,000 for making a lay-up,
foul shot, 3 pointer and half court shot in 25 seconds.

Start Practicing!

@© Allstate.

You're in good hands.

200 North Harbor Place * 704-655-2259 © markrackley@allstate.com

Justin Williams 711 ran for 226 yards on
25 carries and scored four touchdowns.

for 100 yards in a game this season. He fin-
ished the game with 226 yards rushing on 25
carries and tied a school-record with four
touchdowns.

“Three weeks ago, Justin was our third-
string tailback, so for him to come in here
and put up those kinds of numbers in this

kind of environment is a credit to him,”

Davidson coach Tripp Merritt said. “We had
an outstanding running game today, and
that’s ultimately what put us over the top.
Our offensive line did a great job with that
and _a good job protecting the quarterback as
well?’. ,

Alexander also became the Davidson’s all-

time leading passer on the Cats first touch-.

down drive when he completed an eight yard
pass to tight end DJ. Singletary 09. With
the completion,

Alexander surpassed Paul Nichols. He fin-
ished the afternoon 16-31 for 218 yards and
a pair of touchdown passes.

The ’Cats put the dagger in the Bulldogs
late in the game as Williams ran 14 yards for
his fourth TD of the game to push
Davidson’s lead back to double digits at 44-
32. The Wildcat defense forced the Butler
offense to turn it over on downs on the fol-
lowing possession to seal the Davidson vic-
tory.

Peter Bakke ’09 led the ‘Cats defense with
an impressive performance that included 20
tackles and a sack. For his performance, he
was named PFL Co-Defensive Player of the
Week.

Will Funderburg ’09 and Kwame Som-
Pimpong each added two tackles for loss for
the Wildcats.

Davidson heads west this weekend to take
on San Diego (7-1, 4-1).

San Diego is coming off a 35-16 loss to
Dayton. Both San Diego and Davidson will
look to keep their PFL championship hopes
alive.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31, 2007 11

Volleyball team snaps
five-game winning streak
at College of Charleston

By PATRICK DEVISSCHER
Staff Writer

This past weekend the volleyball team got
off to a strong start in Charleston, winning
handily against the Citadel 3-0. The
Wildcats, however, fell to College of
Charleston 3-0 in the second leg of their road
trip. The victory over the Bulldogs extended
the Wildcats unbeaten streak to five games,
but league leading College of Charleston
showed its dominance, serving Davidson its
first loss on Sunday.

Key performances against the Citadel
came from Hayley Lawson ’11, Katie
Pierucci ’08 and Lindsey Woeste ’08.
Lawson had a staggering 49 assists, while
Pierucci doubled up with 13 kills and. 13
digs. Woeste’s 13 digs also contributed to the
*Cats’ success. However, the performance of
the match came from Kittery Neale 09,
whose match-high 16 kills built the Wildcat
momentum througout the match.

On Saturday, neither side controlled the
momentum of the first game. While the
Wildcats outhit the Citadel .292 to .262, their
errors kept the Bulldogs in the game.
Nonetheless, Davidson edged their oppo-
nents 31-29 to put the match at 1-0.

The ’Cats maintained that edge and took
control of the second game early with a 6-1
lead. By not repeating the errors that hin-
dered its performance in the first game,
Davidson’s offense played more efficiently,
stretching the lead in the second game to win
by a comfortable 30-20 margin.

The Wildcats opened the third game with
an 11-3 run and never looked back. Despite
several Bulldog attempts to turn the match
around, Davidson held fast and dominated
the third game 30-18.

Unfortunately, the Wildcats could not
make it five in a row against a 17-7 College
of Charleston team. The Cougars dominated
Statistical categories, hitting 500 with 27
blocks in the first game alone.

In the second game, Davidson stayed neck
and neck with its opponents trailing 16-15,
but a Cougar run of 11-3 closed the game 30-
20.

Down 2-0 in the match, the ’Cats fought
hard and earned an early lead in the third
game. But just when Davidson appeared ‘to
have taken control, Charleston answered
with an impressive 6-0 run to reclaim the
lead. Yet again the Wildcats steadfastly
fought to bring the game within a point, but
the Cougars fought off the rally, sealing the
match at 3-0 by winning the third game 30-
21.

With the defeat, the volleyball team falls
to 5-9 in the SoCon and 10-17 overall. The
Wildcats will next host Elon and UNC
Greensboro next weekend in Belk Arena.

Online and Lan Games, Tournaments

(State of the Art PCs)

(just a mile from Davidson College on 115 and Catawba)

Home Made Pastries

19900 S. Main St. #2 Cornelius

Internet Cafe

704-895-8600

Your Second Home. .

Open everyday 8:00 AM to 8:00 PM

Bring a friend and buy one coffee and the second one is free with this coupon.

Buy one and get another one free of equal of lesser value

