THE DAVIDSONIAN

Field Hockey falls to
Spartans, beats up Catawba

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The field hockey team fell to the fifth-
ranked Michigan State Spartans 9-0 on
Friday night, but snapped its two-game los-
ing streak by defeating the Catawba Indians
12-1 to finish a game delayed by rain on
August 30.

The loss to the Spartans ended a brutal
week of non-conference play for the
Wildcats. The team began last week with a
loss to the top-ranked North Carolina Tar
Heels. In Friday’s game against the Spartans,
the Wildcats were out-shot 29-4 and came
out on the wrong end of a 13-2 disparity in
penalty comers.

Jantine Steinmetz scored four goals for the
Spartans, with Becky Manning, Gwen Riley,
Jeamie Deacon, Floor Rijpma and Joelle Van
Ireland adding one goal apiece.

Kayli Maxwell ’08 and Sarah Addison ’09
recorded two shots each for Davidson, but
the team could not find the goal.

The continuation of the game against the
Indians proved to be just the medicine the
Wildcats needed to heal their recent wounds.
In stark contrast to the scoreless performance
against Michigan State, the 12 goals against
Catawba set a new school record.

For the game, Davidson outshot Catawba
35-11 and had a 15-4 advantage in penalty
corners.

Catherine Ransone ’08 and Courtney Tobe
’11 each recorded hat tricks. Ginnie Fridell
°08 recorded her first two goals of the sea-
son. To add to the scoring frenzy, Ellie

en ae OOM

The Wildcat Pulse

SPORTS

Lauren Calve ’09 recorded two assists.
against Catawba.

Szykowny 711, Tyler Kirkland ’09, Lauren
Calve ’09 and Jennie Mostellar ’11 each tal-
lied their first goals of the season.

Calve and Britti Himelfarb ’09 each made
two assists for the Wildcats. Maxwell,
Addison, Eleanor Cowley ’08 and Willis
added to the team effort with one assist each.

Jill Archambault scored the lone goal for
the Indians against Davidson’s three goalies:
Christa Goeke ’10, Brittany Rollek ’11 and
Mary Clay ’10.

The week’s results left Davidson with a 7-
4 record and a 3-2 mark in conference
play. The Wildcats will return to NorPac play
Friday when they travel to Farmville,
Virginia to take on Pacific.

VieGet football kis

a em

Volleyball picks up first

conference victory
By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

The Davidson volleyball team snapped its
nine-game losing streak over the weekend by
downing The Citadel 3-1. Over the course of
their losing streak, the Wildcats pulled out
only two game victories and were shut out in
eight straight appearances.

The weekend did not start on a positive
note for the Wildcats when they hosted the
College of Charleston last Friday. The
Cougars entered the match undefeated in the
Southern Conference while Davidson had
yet to win a game. The Cougars opened the
match on a strong run, and before they knew
it, the ’Cats trailed 10-2. Davidson was
unable to gain back much ground in the first
game and they fell 30-18.

Game two proved to be a similar story as
the Cougars jumped out to another quick
lead behind the aggressive play of
Charleston’s Emily Sawm. Sawin finished
the match with a total of eleven kills, and she
led Charleston to a 30-14 game two victory.

Although hopes were bleak heading into
the third game, Davidson jumped out to a 9-
5 advantage after a kill by Katie Pierucci ’08.
Pierucci finished the match with a team-high
11 kills. Hayley Lawson *11 continued to
make an impact in her first reason as she tal-
lied a team-high 24 assists. Despite their
efforts, the Cougars pulled out the third
game and the match victory.

Davidson entered their Saturday match
with The Citadel with high hopes. Last sea-
son, the Wildcats beat the Bulldogs 3-0 and
3-1 in two matches.

Pierucci led the Wildcat attack in the first
game pushing Davidson to a quick 10-3 lead.
Pierucci finished the match with a season-
high 29 kills to go along with 17 digs. Her
177 season kills now leads on the team.

Kittery Neale ’09 also had a big day for
the ’Cats as she finished with 17 kills and
three service aces.

Davidson beat The Citadel in games one
and two, picking up their first game victories
in 21 calendar days. However, The Citadel
refused to go away. They came out in game
three and reached an early 10-5 advantage
before going on to win 30-23. When the
Bulldogs took a 21-19 lead, game four
seemed to be going the same direction. The
Wildcats did not unravel, however, and the
Wildcats’ senior leaders led them to their
first conference match victory of the season
with a 30-26 game four win.

Although the Wildcats hoped to continue
their winning on Tuesday night, the visiting
Furman Paladins came in and took a bitterly
contested 3-1 match victory.

Pierucci continued to torch the statbooks
with a 24 kills and 22 digs in the match.

Davidson and Furman split the first two
games of the match. The Wildcats held a late
28-27 advantage in the third game, but

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007

15

Furman reeled off three straight points to
take the game and a 2-1 match lead. The
Wildcats were unable to keep up with
Furman in game four and the Paladins won a
3-1 decision.

Davidson will travel to Elon and UNC-
Greensboro for two weekend Southern
Conference matches.

Women’s Soccer continues
hot streak
By ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

The Wildcats opened conference play this
week against Appalachian State University
and The Citadel after their landmark victo-
ries against Vanderbilt and LSU in the
College of Charleston Tournament.

Last Thursday, both the Wildcats and the
Mountaineers were held scoreless in the first
half. Davidson dominated Appalachian State
with shots on goal, holding a 15-0 edge
before the any goals found their way to the
back of the net.

In the second half, the team looked to
break the early offensive drought by contin-
uing its aggressive play. In the 57th minute,
Nancy Haskell ’08 kicked a cross into the
penalty box and Blakely Low 10 headed the
ball past the goalkeeper, a play almost iden-
tical to a goal they scored against Vanderbilt
last week.

Unfortunately, Appalachian State did not
concede. At the 85 minute mark, Davidson
was penalized for a handball violation.
Jaclyn Hoffman’s free kick from the 18 yard
mark squirted past the Davidson defense to
tie the game and send it to overtime.

After a scoreless first overtime, a blocked
Kyri Bye-Nagel 710 shot went to Tiffany
Mumby ’10 who retrieved the loose ball and
sent a pass to an open Connor, who put home
the game-winner.

On Sunday, Davidson played the Citadel
in its second conference game of the year.
Davidson did not score until the 38th minute
when Low sent a cross to Conner who
deposited the ball for her team-leading fifth
goal on the season.

After the half, Davidson scored its second
goal at the 53 minute mark when Nancy
Haskell ’08 sent a corner kick to Amanda
Flink ’11 who headed it in and put the team
up 2-0. Twenty minutes later, Sophie
Funderburk °10 received the best birthday
present a soccer player could get: her first
career goal. She fired a shot from 25 yards
out to the upper left corner of the net past
Bulldog goalie Britni Burnell. Kate
McCormick ’09 and Callan Elswick ”11 also
scored their first collegiate goals to tack on
extra insurance. With these five goals and
goalie Bevin English’s ’08 third shutout of
the season, the game ended in an easy 5-0
win for Davidson.

This week, Davidson plays Furman on
October 4th at 7 p.m. with hopes to extend
its streak to six games and improve its per-
fect conference record.

» Easttown Reerultiog s Station
704-593-0214

