cb

THE DAVIDSONIAN
\ WEDNESDAY,

b OCTOBER 24, 2007
’ Cats tie safety record in 24-21 victory against Drake

By MIKE FRONGELLO The three safeties tied an NCAA Division I record (FCS

i —- <StaffWriter st=—<CSsti‘SCS or FBS). In 1988, Alabama State had three safeties again

Albany State, marking the only other time three safeties

On a night when Davidson tied the NCAA Division Ihave been forced in FCS history.
record for safeties forced in a game and Ryan Alexander Davidson extended its lead to 9-0 when Cody Elder °08
’08 became the school’s all-time leader in total offense, connected on a 37-yard field goal right before halftime. It
‘ the Wildcats won a thrilling 24-21 game on Saturday in marked the first time the ‘Cats took a lead into the half
Richardson Stadium. since September 15 against Lenoir-Rhyne.

The ’Cats offense had trouble holding on to the football The Wildcat defense held strong early in the second half
and committed five turnovers including a fumble on the forcing a pair of successfully-snapped Drake punts.
game’s opening possession. Luckily, Zach Long ’08 Midway through the third quarter the "Cats found the end
intercepted Cole Ingle’s pass on the Bulldog’s first pos- | zone. Kenny Mantuo ’11 capped a five play, 51-yard drive
session. Both offenses failed to produce any points in the | with a one-yard touchdown run. The failed two-point con-
first quarter. version left Davidson’s lead at 15-0.

The second quarter began with a bizarre sequence. On The Bulldogs put together a couple of scoring drives late
Drake’s first drive the ’Cats defense forced a three-and- _in the third quarter to cut the ’Cats lead to 15-13 entering
out that brought the punting unit on the field. The snap the final period. The Wildcats special teams caused more
sailed over the punter’s head rolling 33 yards and out of nightmares for Drake early in the fourth when Ben Sarver
the back of the end zone for a safety to give Davidson an 11 blocked Brandon Wubs’ punt and returned the ball to
early 2-0 lead. the two-yard line to set up an excellent scoring opportuni-

On the ensuing possession, the Wildcat defense forced .
another fourth down. The Drake punting unit jogged back On the next play, Kirk Benedict ’10 plunged into the end
out onto the field for a second chance, but again the snap zone for the touchdown. Elder’s extra point gave the home
was high and this time the ball went 49 yards for another team a 21-13 advantage with 7:50 to go in regulation, but,
safety. once again, the Bulldogs responded.

Now trailing 4-0 the Bulldog offense looked to put a Davidson’s defense forced a punt on the ensuing drive,
drive together, but was again shut down by the Davidson but Mantuo fumbled on the first play of the series. Bulldog

oe A defense. The punting unit returned to the field and for the | Tyler Marley recovered at the Davidson 27-yard line. Five
photo by Brian Westerh third time in as many series the snap sailed out the back plays later, Scott Phaydavong see Football,

Ryan Hubbard had a ‘career-high 14 catches for 174 yards. of the end-zone for another two points, allowing brought Drake within two points at 11
in Davidson’s 24-21 win over Drake. Davidson to take a 6-0 lead. 21-19 with a 17-yard touchdown P&8e
W ‘ in standi ith 3-0 wi
omen’s soccer moves up In Standings wl “VU Win
BY SAM DIAMANT “After going 1-3 at the beginning of the season, we got a wat" . 2
Senior Staff Writer together as a team and in small groups based on our positions = . a
to refocus as a group,” co-captain English said.
In another successful week of SoCon action, the women’s soc- “We knew it wasn’t time to panic, but we also knew that we

cer team defeated conference opponents College of Charleston had to step it up and win some games. I think the team really
and Western Carolina. With three regular season games remain- came together after that,” English added.
ing, the team now sits at 10-4-1 overall and 5-1-1 in-conference. The team seemed to respond immediately. After the early

On Wednesday, the Wildcats ended College of Charleston’s troubles, the "Cats defeated tough SEC opponents LSU and
four-game conference win-streak in a 2-1 overtime tiumph at Vanderbilt to win the College of Charleston Tournament.
Alumni Stadium. This season, underclassmen have generated much of the

Suzanne Sittko ’10 notched her second goal on the season in team’s offensive firepower. Bye-Nagel has a team-leading eight
the 20th minute the contest; Nancy Haskell ’08 assisted on the goals on the season.
play. But the Cougars answered less than 10 minutes later, and Fellow sophomore forwards Blakely Low (four goals in
the match stayed tied through regulation. Sittko scored the gold- 2007) and Sittko (three goals) round out the attack, along with
en-goal in the sixth minute of overtime, heading a ball near-post another second-year player, midfielder Lauren Connor, who
off a cross from Katharine Laco ’10. has five tallies on the year.

On Sunday, Greg Ashton’s squad traveled to Western Carolina, “T think the fact that our leading scorers are all sophomores
where forward Kyri Bye-Nagel’s ’10 hat-trick and goal keeper or freshmen really bodes well for the future of the team,”
Bevin English’s ’08 seventh shutout of the season propelied the English noted.
team to a 3-0 win. Amanda Flink ’11 has stepped up in a big way in her first col-

Bye-Nagel got the Wildcats on the board early in Sunday’s legiate season, with three scores on the year. “Amanda (Flink)
game on a through-ball from Courtney Hart ’10 in the second is great in the air and a real threat on any set piece,” English
minute. She scored her second of the afternoon on a pass from _ said.

Lauren Connor ’10. While younger players have provided most of the scoring,
“Blakely Low ran in front of the keeper, and I passed it into the Davidson’s veteran upperclassmen have anchored a solid photo courtesy 0;
back of the net,” Bye-Nagel said. defensive effort. Defender Nancy Haskell ’08 has started all 15 oe fo Se, Sports:IAfortmation
Bye-Nagel completed the hat-trick in the 59th minute. The contests, helping to create scoring opportunities with five Kyri Bye-Nag hat trick in
goal, Bye-Nagel said, came off a “great team buildup, which assists. Davidson’s 3-0 win over Western Carolina.

started in the midfield, had some great combinations between Chloe King ’09 has been another fixture on a defense that has _ but realizes much work remains ahead. “All the games
players, and then finally ended with a great cross by Suz Sittko helped English to her SoCon-leading seven shutouts. The sen- are going to be pretty tough... it’s important to take

which I got on the end of with my head.” ior goalkeeper now has 18 career shutouts, and needs one more them one at a time,” Haskell said of upcoming match-
The team seems to be hitting its stride at the right point in the to break the Davidson record. ups against Elon on Thursday, Chatanooga on Saturday
season. It has won nine of 12 contests. English praises her defense. “The defenders are fighting for and Georgia Southern on Nov. 1.

With the exception of an October 14 loss to UNC-Greensboro, every ball and playing well together, and as a team, we are Bye-Nagel agreed. “If we continue to support each
the Wildcats have not lost since September 9. The remarkable maintaining possession better, so we’ve been able to limit the other and take each game at a time, we will continue to
stretch started after the team lost three of its four games to open number of chances our opponents get.” be successful. Also, we have been having fun recently,
the 2007 season. Looking forward, the team is encouraged by its. Fecent play, and that seems to help too.”

—- —

zap nonsao NS

“PLAY OF THE WEEK

Men’s soccer gets tie in final seconds

“bud Crawford ' 08

Football
Hometown: Dunwoody, Georgia
_ Trailing 1-0 to conference rival Appalachian State, the men’s soccer team

Crawford recorded a career-high three sacks, four tackles for made one last surge at goal in the final 15 seconds. The Wildcats gathered
loss and a forced fumble to lead Davidson over Drake. a long ball on the baseline and sent a ball into the box. The ball bounced
Crawford spearheaded a defense that held Drake to -40 net off a Mountaineer hand, and Davidson was awarded a free kick. Charlie

yards rushing. Crawford was named PFL Player of the Week. Rieter ‘10 hammered home the tying shot with 4.4 seconds remaining.
