THE DAVIDSONIAN
es

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31,2007 9

John Woods evaluates College-Town relationship past, present and future

JOHN Woops
Mayoral Candidate

Thank you for this opportunity to share my views on the
College-Town relationship. As an active Davidson citizen, I
am committed to strengthening this very important relation-
ship to the benefit of both the College and Town.

What the Relationship Has Been

For many decades, the College and Town have been insep-
arable. In my memory, Town officials with College ties have
included four mayors and dozens of Town Commissioners.
The two entities cooperated closely on public services,
including electricity, water and sewer, fire and police protec-
tion, streets and sidewalks. The College bought much of the
fire-fighting equipment. It provided the Village Green as a
community facility, and it participated in improving the look
of Griffith Street as the entrance to both the College and
Town. In addition, the College made an annual contribution
in lieu of taxes for all its residential properties in Town.

For decades, the College asked all employees, particularly
faculty members, to live in Davidson. There were many close
and lasting relationships between townspeople and students.
There was the daily trek to the post office for both students
and employees, a trek that often continued to the M&M Soda
Shop and other downtown shops. Davidson College
Presbyterian Church was the center of community-building
activities—a facility built through the efforts of President
John Cunningham. It is important to note the church faces
into the campus, a significant architectural design.

In more recent years, during the tenure of John
Kuykendall, the College and Town entered a joint arrange-
ment with the Mecklenburg County Library Board that led
to the new public library in Davidson. President Kuykendall
served on the Land Plan Task Forcet ime-consuming, year-
long process that gave birth to our new planning ordinance in
1995.

The College began leasing the Village Green and Beaver
Dam to the Town. The two entities briefly had a single police
department. The efforts on Griffith Street continued, with the
College supplying much of the funding for the improvements
in the streetscape. The College provided free building lots for
several Habitat for Humanity houses. The two entities shared
construction equipment and together purchased fire trucks on
handshake agreements.

Throughout this history, there was a natural evolution of
the relationship. As the Town became more able to manage
its affairs, the College slowly took its hand off the shoulder

of the Town. The relationship, however, was always cordial
and mutually supportive.

What the Relationship Is

Today, the relationship between the College and the Town
has changed with the times. There are strong ties at some
levels and a need for improved communications as the pace
of life for all has accelerated. Indeed, the Town has diversi-
fied such that many people living here are not directly relat-
ed to the College. The relationship is necessarily more for-
mal than the handshake agreements of yesteryear.

Faculty members, including Professors Bill Lawing, Brian
Shaw and Shelley Rigger are active on the Town’s Planning
Board. David Holthouser and Leland Park have served dili-
gently on the Town’s Design Review Board. David has also
participated in street projects, including encouraging the
College to-pay most of the cost of the crosswalks on Main
and Concord Road. Davidson College Economics major
Meredith Judy turned her internship in the Planning
Department into a permanent position, then a scholarship
and now Masters Degree in Urban Planning from MIT.
College graduate Christi Shi has served ably on the Planning
Board and other important Town committees. Sterling
Martin has long-served as Chair of the Town’s Park and
Recreation Board and currently is President of the Davison
Lands Conservancy. A remarkable number of students have
actively served as volunteer firefighters. Our current chief,
Bo Fitzgerald is a Davidson College graduate and came up
through the ranks as a student.

The College donated much of the Ralph Johnson estate
property to the Davidson Housing Coalition and asked the
Duke Endowment to fund construction of new affordable
houses on that land. Many affordable rental units now exist
because of that donation. As a local banker, I have had the
privilege of assisting this effort with special financing.

On the other hand, the relationship has become more for-
mal, requiring more than a handshake agreement in some
cases.

More and more faculty live out of Davidson, although the
College has directly participated in land development and
created a land-lease program that to some extent has enabled
affordability to continue. The College has just constructed
additional affordable housing intended for staff members.
The students no longer use the post office. When combined
with the serious effort to make the campus self-sufficient,
many students never visit the downtown. And downtown can
be seen as unattractive to student shoppers.

A decade ago, an active College-Town committee met reg-

ularly to discuss items of mutual interest.

In general, there has developed an insular feeling between
the two. The result has been a missed opportunity for effec-
tive communication as the Town has grown and diversified
at a rapid pace. The College should have a part in the deci-
sions that will shape the Town for the next century.

What the Relationship Could Be

There must be a close partnership between the Town and
the College. The Town recognizes the vital importance of the
College to the life of the Town, and the College acknowl-
edges the importance of the Town in recruiting students, fac-
ulty and staff; in providing a safe community where students
can jog, find solitude, expand their horizons in volunteer
services; and in provision of a range of housing prices so that
more College employees can live in Davidson.

The future rail service to Charlotte offers a strong possi-
bility for cooperation, particularly in station-area planning,
since the College owns a vital strip of land on Depot Street
and the old depot property along the rail line.

As we move inevitably away from a volunteer fire depart-
ment toward a paid one, it will be important that the College
participate financially. In general, as the area urbanizes and
public services become more expensive, the College’s finan-
cial involvement is increasingly important.

There needs to be a regular line of communication —per-
haps through resurrecting the College-Town committee—so
that the two parties can discuss items of mutual concern in
an atmosphere of partnership. If elected Mayor, I will sug-
gest and endorse a closer relationship with the student body,
perhaps establishing a formal line of communication
between the Mayor and the SGA. In addition, there needs to
be a designated College officer as contact for the Town
Manager, so that the two can have regular communications.

As the College plans its various properties throughout the
Town, the Town can play a significant role in assisting the
College with developing and implementing those plans.
And, the Town can assist the students in making the town a
part of their place.

President Ross has suggested his primary challenge is
deciding how much the College must change in order to
remain the same. I positively believe the Town faces a sim-
ilar challenge in engaging the real world pressures of devel-
opment, technology, economics and social change.
Together, the College and the Town can engage these issues
and grow stronger in this partnership.

Thank you again for the opportunity to share my views on
this important relationship.

Town as context of College: College as identity of Town

WILLIAM E. JACKSON, JR.
Mayoral Candidate

It is often said that Davidson can both manage major eco-
nomic growth and at the same time improve its residents’
quality of life. This campaign tactic is equivalent to saying
we can have our cake and eat it, too. But “smart growth” is
not so smart.

Colliding Trajectories

The truth is that more major commercial —let alone indus-.

trial—developments in our small college town undermine
improvements in the quality of life for us all by feeding traf-
fic congestion, pumping air pollution, decreasing safety,
increasing noise—the list goes on. Yet, we are in denial, sim-
ilar to watching the polar ice cap melting but refusing to
acknowledge global warming.

We are at the point in Davidson where these two trajecto-
ries— managing growth and improving the quality of life—
collide. Exit 30, the development bomb that dropped on
Davidson, is the prime example. And there is no guarantee
that the “expanded tax base” will offset the additional infra-
structure costs to taxpayers.

However, my opponent John Woods is a banker who
measures “progress” in terms of more growth. To be a
regional economic player (in north Mecklenburg and south
Iredell), he continues to champion economic development.
Qui bono? To whose benefit? It is difficult to see how trans-
forming Davidson into some sort of economic boom town is
consistent with the historical legacy of this special place. In
truth, it is a sacrilege.

Ross’s Rule of Thumb
When new president Tom Ross says we need to change

Davidson College as little as possible in order to maintain the
way it has been, this is a far different message. And I would

apply the same standard to the Town.

One approach suggests changing the very nature of
Davidson, in which town and gown have co-existed since the
19th century. The other approach is to envision a model town
like Middlebury or Chapel! Hill, where the institutions of
higher learning are the central reason for being. I firmly
believe that a majority of Davidson’s current voters, young
and old, want the latter. It is comparable to Charlotte choos-
ing Austin, Texas, as a model for the future; not Pittsburgh,
Atlanta or Las Vegas.

A Proposal for a College Role in Governance

This “change election” may be the right time to re-visit the
master land plan for the Town—often honored in the
breach —to enable us to get a grip on just where we are in the
symbiotic relationship between the college and the town.

To that end, I will propose to the Town Board that it allow
the College to elect and the student body to choose, respec-
tively, a faculty member and a student to be non-voting ex-
officio members of the Board, with consequent representa-
tion on the major committees.

East of Main, West of the Tracks; NIMBYs and
Academics

As a community, we must constantly fight against the
railroad track’s division between “two Davidsons,” or allow-
ing Jetton Street to be the demarcation of a “third Davidson.”
One of the most discouraging realities about many citizens is
that they are NIMBYs (not in my backyard). The concept of
the public good gets lost in accommodating this or that nar-
row concern over the height of a house, or a strip of sidewalk
or a buffer zone between developments, or— yes—running a
new highway around the College campus. The Town Board
and staff exploit this fact with a “divide and rule” approach
in an effort to prove that government cares—even as the cur-
rent set of incumbents has given the green light to.the devel-

opment juggernaut.

On a related front, I am amused by the perspective of some
liberal academics who wring their hands over Congress (or
the state legislature) caving in to lobbyists for special inter-
ests, while remaining willfully blind to persona! conflicts of
interest in which Town Board members refuse to recuse
themselves (on cozy consensus 5-0 votes) from situations
that would make a legislator blush. After pledging to
“remove politics from the process,” a sitting Town Board
member up for re-election had himself chosen as the chair-
man of the board of the fledgling new cable TV system— the
purchase of which will increase Davidson’s debt eightfold!

When Students Return as Alums

Students can come to the defense of their alma mater and
the small town that provides its context by registering to
vote.

If the Town Board and Mayoral elections do not throw a
roadblock in the way of greedy developers and the “cottage-
cheese” businesses that feed off of them, then when you
return here as alums through the I-77, Exit 30 “gateway,” it
could be barely discernible from Huntersville or
Mooresville. God forbid.

This college, in this small town, not only provided me with
a first-rate liberal arts education. Here I encountered giant
role models who have stayed with me through careers in
national government and academia. When my wife, Judith,
and I first lived here as a couple, I taught the finest group of
young men and women I have ever known. Miraculously, I
see them in their children enrolled at Davidson today.

There is something about a small town, with a college as
its defining identity, that has a sense of a special place and
nurtures character for the rest of your life.

When you wander back for reunions—and you will—far
better that you spot on the horizon a church steeple rather
than a series of 100-feet-tall mixed-use condo towers!
