10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Davidson Wildcat Basketball:

McKillop, men’s basket-
ball embrace the bull’s-eye

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

Soon students and fans will walk down the
red brick, across the road towards Belk
Arena for the beginning of the much antici-
pated 2007-2008 Men’s Basketball season.
Last year’s unparalleled success of 29 wins
and a Southern Conference Championship
took the campus and nation by surprise.

This year, however, no one underestimates
Davidson, especially the national press. The
most recent national article to laud the team
appeared in “USA Today,” emphasizing that
top tier basketball and first-rate aca-
demics coexist at Davidson.

“I’m absolutely thrilled with the
article and how it represented what
we truly are, not just as a program :
but as a school as well,” Coach
Bob McKillop said. “Not many,
times can we have that story told.

Positive press, however, is'
sometimes a double-edged sword.
McKillop and his staff have been %
negotiating the delicate dance of public |
relations throughout the offseason.

“You can’t run from the media, but
you can’t stick your chest out because
of it,” McKillop said. “You have to
understand why it’s here. It’s here not 4
because of anything we’ ve accomplished

at this point, but instead it’s about what has “

been in the past. And it’s not just about what
this team and what this coach has accom-
plished in the past, but it’s what this program
has done in the past.”

While the team needs to prove itself again,
the potential exists for another historic sea-
son. Unlike last year, one of the team’s great-
est strengths is experience, with all five
starters from last year’s team returning to the
floor for the Wildcats.

Anchoring the frontcourt in his final cam-
paign will be Thomas Sander ’08. A versatile
forward, Sander is versed in hard-nosed
defense, rebounding, transition scoring and
three-point shooting. Boris Meno ’08 joins
in the frontcourt, adding defensive versatili-
ty, rebounding excellence and senior leader-
ship to the mix.

Joining them is a backcourt that ranks
among the country’s best. All-SoCon point
guard Jason Richards ’08 will again start for
the Cats, utilizing leadership and the exqui-
site court vision that allowed him to tally the
second-most assists in the nation last year.
Richards has a great target in Stephen Curry
”10, the phenomenal shooting guard who last
year won SoCon Freshman of the Year and
SoCon Tournament MVP. Curry led the
SoCon in scoring with 21.5 points per game,
ranking ninth in the nation last year. The
final piece of the starting backcourt is
Max Paulhus Gosselin ’09, a defensive spe-
cialist who led last year’s club with a .500
field goal percentage.

But five players are not enough to win
against the grueling schedule. Luckily, the
bench is also full of experience and talent.
The backcourt bench runs deep, consisting of
Will Archambault ’10, Bryant Barr °10, Can
Civi ’09, Brendan McKillop ’11 and Aaron
Bond ’11.The frontcourt is fortified by Steve
Rossiter ’09, Andrew Lovedale ’09, Dan
Nelms ’10 and Ben Allison ’11.

“When you go to the bench, when you go
to your full rotation, there cannot be a dra-
matic dropoff in terms of the implementation
and execution of the system,” McKillop said.
“Maybe we’ve had that happen in the past,
but we feel extremely confident in the cur-
rent rotation because of their experience in

meeting that challenge.”

Being consistent in implementing the
game plan will be the team’s constant chal-
lenge during the upcoming season.

“It’s going to take 40 minutes,” McKillop
said. ““We sometimes get amnesia during the
course of a game against opponents who out-

match us in every way. We stick toa game = 03-04». 13 0 1.00
plan and we stay within a system and we _ 04.05 11-3 786
have success. But the consistency of sticking —- 65-06 14 a 933
to the game plan and staying within the sys- 06-07 13 J 929
tem has to have the duration of 40 minutes. Totals 739 A399

The elusive quality of greatness is consisten-

”

cy.

On the offensive side of the ball, the plan
is simple: attack. “All five players need to be
in the attack mode. You can expect us to run
on makes and misses. You can expect us to
take full advantage of every out of bounds
opportunity that presents itself,’ McKillop
said.

One word also effectively summarizes the
defensive philosophy: disrupt. “We love
Mm to break rhythm. Breaking rhythm
M@causes a disruption of their flow, cre-
W ates dry spells for your opponent and
maybe allows you to go on a run

that’s not just a result of your
. attacking offence but is a result of
J your rhythm breaking defense.”
‘¢  The team looks to start strong early
against Emory before its show-
down with top ranked UNC. As
McKillop emphasized at
Night with the Cats,
embracing the bull’s-eye
starts with the fans.
“Gamescan be
decided by a few
“yf »points. The crowd
a4 gives you that needed
‘boost of adrenaline.
The crowd perhaps puts the opponent maybe
at a disadvantage confidence wise. The
crowd perhaps influences the way our guys

a bit. ,

“112 846

é “McKillop: dynamic. “#
Two years ago, Davidson sported ¢ one of .

decades and yet the Wildcats struggled to a :
» 10-5 record in the Southern Conference. By’ “
the end of the conference season, McKillop year-olds in the back who snicker at the
decided that it was time to change things uP proposition, perhaps dismissing mid-major

He shortened the practice times, he used ~
more gags and jokes around his players, he’ Illustrated”. with another display. It was
‘started hanging out in the Union more to:
interact with the team in a different context, «
For a brief week or two before the Southern.”

“Z 17 10 630
17 12 586
23 9 sg
20. 114645
2945 853.
127 87 325

Davidson style of play, that seemed reall j
new? the men players took, quick shots, they,
played t more Pressure on and tried to: :

“eSports Illustrated” i in which Davidson was
: the top-ranked team in the country during .

that again,” eos
” Every year, there are usually a few 15

“» Davidson to big conference teams. But this
~ summer, McKillop followed up the “Sports

Andy Katz’s preseason Top 25 that tabbed
» Davidson as the nation’s 23rd best team.
No one snickered tl this year. .

use their energy. And because of the crowd,
we may be able to steal a basket or two or
three and in many games that’s the difference
in the outcome.”

Conference Tournament, things changed ae
little. The "Cats ended up sweeping through
the tourney as a three seed and capturing
: another SoCon title, :

-Ranked #32 in country by the AP and Coaches Polls

-Unanimous preseason #1 selection in SoCon
Coaches’ and Media Polls

-Stephen Curry named preseason candidate for John
R. Wooden Award, selected to CollegeInsider.com
Preseason All-America team

-Jason Richards nominated for Bob Cousy Award

-Ranked 18th in country by Lindy’s preseason maga-
zine

- “Davidson could be the country’s best mid-major
team this season” -Jay Bilas on ESPNU’s Midnight
Madness program

- “A sign that Davidson is moving up in the world of
college basketball came when they were invited to
compete in the Wooden Classic against UCLA.”
-Dick Vitale

“Davidson certainly has the talent to knock off an
ACC opponent this year.” -ESPN’s Kyle Whelliston

‘Davidson will win 30 games and advance to the
Sweet 16 this season.” -ESPN’s Pat Forde

“Bob McKillop is easily the most underrated coach in
the country.” -Texas coach Rick Barnes
