ao

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 2007 10

Cheer for the Rockies, for
the sake of the Red Sox

© By Parrick McArpie#”
__, Sports Editor

“October baseball peaks this week. when the
Red Sox. and Rockies start the best-of-seven
World Series. Both teams see themselves as bat-
tle tested. ve oes

The Red Sox rank among the best teams in
the MLB while retaining a playful edge. Despite
securing the best record in baseball during the
regular season, the team struggled lately. After
sweeping the Angels, the Sox overcame a3-1
deficit against Cleveland in the ALCS behind
performances.:from.. stars, (like«-Cy “Young
favorite Josh Beckett) and two hit wonders (like

SRLELEMRLINRU EO I 0 a a psa gic wie

_ The Rockies, meanw e, have won of 22
games since; Sept,” ‘16. Riding atsunami, of
momentum, the. team. swept. the: Phillies and
Diamondbacks, The upstart team joins the “Big
Red Machine”:as the only other team to win its
first seven playoff games.”
ndeniably,these are:two great stories.. So
which team should the thoughtful fan support?
The bittersweet truth about this. World Series for
the Fenway Faithful is that if the Red Sox win,
Boston can no longer be an underdog.’
- If the Rockies cannot. overcome Boston,:as
bookies i in Las Vegas predict, Colorado’s his-
toric run will end in disappointment. Fans cling-
ing to .“Rocktober’. would pack up their para-
phernalia and .resort to,. watching the 300
Broncos through the winter. «
So why should fans from New England care?
The fact is that if Boston wins this World Series,
the Red Sox become the new Yankees.
,can sense the protest, but it’s true. Boston’s
payroll grew, $23, million this year to $143.5
million. The increase nearly equals the pa’

av : environment, piles of money eigh {
foal market pretensions, of the Red Sox.

undermine the recent parody i in baseball s starting
ith the Diamondbacks i in. 2001. and ours

Volleyball
(9-16, 4-8)

10/11 Appalachian State, Lost 1-3
10/14 at Georgia Southern, Lost 0-3
10/16 at Wofford, Win 3-1

10/20 Western Carolina, Win 3-1 Next up: _ 10/21 at Western Carolina, Won 3-0
10/21 Chattanooga, Win 3-1 10/27 at Butler Next up:
11/3 at San Diego Next up: 10/27 vs. Wofford
Notes: 10/25 vs. Elon 10/31 vs. Duke
The volleyball team won three Notes: 10/28 at Chattanooga
straight conference games by sweep- Davidson tied the FBS and FCS Notes:
ing its weekend games. Katie record for most safeties in a game Notes: Davidson underclassmen have

Pierucci ’08 tallied 44 kills in the
two weekend games to lead the team.

oft taggtfrasre”

Roundup

Football
(4-3, 2-2)

10/13 at Dayton, Lost 28-38
10/20 Drake, Won 24-21

with three against Drake.

’Cats emerged as national power in 1960’s

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

When Davidson College first started playing basketball, the games
were nothing more than friendly matches between classes of Davidson
men...a glorified B-league, one might say. That all changed forever in
1907 when a student named James Wendell Rhea decided to put
Davidson’s name on the line and form a traveling basketball team that
would compete against other schools. In the school’s first season, a team
of six won its first ever game against Guilford College before losing to
Wake Forest and Duke. Davidson basketball was born.

For many years, Davidson basketball competed outside of what we
now understand to be the general structures of college basketball. The
NCAA had only been formed in 1906, and there
was no tournament until 1939. Davidson didn’t join
the Southern Conference until 1936 when the
College was invited to join the likes of Clemson,
North Carolina, Duke, Maryland and South
Carolina. Those teams would not split off to form
the ACC until 1953.

Until the late 1930’s, Davidson basketball was relatively unheralded.
The team mostly played against regional YMCA squads. On the other
hand, Davidson football seemed to have been getting all sorts of atten-
tion, with stadium improvements and scholarship fundraising to com-
pete with the larger schools in the Southeast. In fact, the “Wildcat” nick-
name came after a 1917 football game against Georgia Tech.

In 1949, George “Buddy” Cheek put Davidson on the national map
when he became the first Wildcat basketball All-American. In his three
years at Davidson, Cheek led the Wildcats to a record of 54-25. Three
years later, in 1952, Hobby Cobb arrived on Davidson’s campus. During
four years, he scored 1,424 points and grabbed 836 rebounds. Cobb has
since been inducted into the Davidson Hall of Fame and his retired #21
jersey hangs from the rafters. Cobb is still a season ticket holder and
tries to attend every Davidson basketball game, home or away.

Although Davidson experienced some team success in the days of
Cheek and Cobb, the sport of basketball was still just an athletic exer-
cise meant to stimulate the bodies and minds of the College’s student-
athletes and supporters. Davidson basketball was not a brand; it was not.

of College Archives

Johnston Gym was s the home of Davidson Basketball for many
decades. It is now the Alvarez Student Union.

a reason to know about a small liberal arts school in North Carolina. In
1960, that changed forever.

In the spring of that year, the Davidson administration hired a former
Duke basketball player who had never been the head coach of a college
basketball program. His name was Charles “Lefty” Driesell. Over the
course of his career, Driesell tallied 786 wins. He was inducted into the
National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 2007.

When Driesell came to Davidson, he didn’t see the restrictions of a
small student body. He refused to believe in an attitude of small-time
athletics. During his nine-year tenure with the Wildcats, Dnesell went
to the NCAA Tournament three times and recruited three All-Americans
and a number-one NBA draft pick.

Fred Hetzel and Dick Snyder were the first two Davidson stars of the
Driesell era. Hetzel ranked eighth in the country in scoring during his

‘senior year and Snyder ranked 14th nationally the next year. Between

1963 and 1966, Hetzel and Snyder helped lead Davidson to national
rankings in the AP and UPI polls, as Davidson finished sixth in the
nation in 1965. Both Hetzel and Snyder went on to prestigious NBA
careers and were inducted into the Davidson Hall of Fame.

The real story of Lefty Driesell was not necessar- see Basketball,
ily what he accomplished as a coach, but how he page 11

, Soccer redeemed with clutch victories

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

A week and a half ago, the men’s soccer team fell behind Georgia
Southern 2-0 to begin the second half. It looked as though the Wildcats
were on the verge of dropping their eighth straight match and entering a
losing hole that the prestigious program had never seen in its 50-year
history. But as so many players have testified over the course of the
team’s losing streak, “we are so close to breaking this, we are still fight-
ing hard.” And, sure enough, the team rallied from two scores down and
scored three straight goals for the road conference victory. Then
Davidson eked out a tie against Appalachian State in the final seconds
of regulation. Then Davidson battered Coastal Carolina with four goals
from underclassmen. All of a sudden, the men’s soccer team has a new
streak to boast about: a three-game unbeaten streak.

In Davidson’s 3-2 come-from-behind victory over Georgia Southern,
the ’Cats were sparked by the energy of some fiery underclassmen.
Robby Hoak ’08 first put Davidson on the board with a goal on a penal-
ty kick.

With under 10 minutes remaining in the game, Davidson was still
down by another goal and the offense had only scored multiple goals in
a contest once in the previous month. That statistic did not deter Charlie
Rieter ’10 who, in the 82nd minute, launched a bomb from 25 yards out
that just barely fell in over the hands of the Eagle goalkeeper.

The Wildcats finally had some late-game confidence. The energetic
Rob O’Donnell ’10 capitalized on Davidson’s momentum and knocked
home his first career collegiate goal, and the game winner, with under
six minutes left in regulation.

“{O’Donnell’s} energy and fight have always been supreme, but he
stepped up with making the critical plays, including the gamewinner,”
coach Matt Spear said. “It’s amazing how a single win can perk players’
confidence and belief.”

The Wildcats built on that confidence last Wednesday when n they

Women’s Soccer
(10-4-1, 5-1-1)

10/12 at Wofford, Tie 0-0 (OT)
10/14 UNC Greensboro, Lost 0-3
10/17 vs. CoC, Won 2-1 (OT)

Suzanne Sittko ’10 was the third
Wildcat to receive SoCon Player of
the Week honors this season.

Men’s Soccer
(3-10-1, 1-2-1)
10/13 at GASouthem, Won 3-2

10/17 vs. App State, Tie 1-1 OT
10/20 vs. Coastal Carolina, Won 4-2

scored seven out of the last eight
team goals.

opened a five-game homestand against Appalachian State. Although the
Mountaineers held a 1-0 lead for most of the contest, the Wildcats con-
tinued to play tough even unto the final minute.

With less than 20 seconds remaining in the contest, Davidson secured
the ball and launched it toward the Appalachian State goal where the
previous game’s hero, O’ Donnell, was able to secure the pass and make
a cross to the goal.

The ball was deflected and kicked out of play, but the referee ran in
to calla hand ball on the Mountaineer defender, giving Davidson a PK
with only 4.4 seconds remaining in overtime. With Hoak missing the
game due to injury, Reiter stepped in and punched home the tying goal,
much to the delight of the home fans. Neither team was able to convert
in the two overtime periods and the game ended in a 1-1 tie.

Although the Wildcats had used late-game heroics in their previous
two games, Davidson returned to more conventional domination in their
4:2 win over Coastal Carolina on Saturday. The bitter blood between the
Wildcats and Chanticleers goes back nearly 15 years to the era of
Davidson’s NCAA tournament runs. Although this group of Wildcats
might not have completely appreciated that history, the team was per-
fectly capable of responding to Coastal Carolina’s physical play with an
aggressive offensive attack.

Alex Caskey ’11 opened the scoring for the Wildcats in the early
going, but Davidson was still knotted in an 1-1 tie at halftime. Peter
Shelton’s ’11 first ever shot on goal proved to be the game-winner as he
put the Wildcats up 2-1 off a nice pass from Cam Griffin ’09. The
Wildcats piled it on from there with goals from Machel Turner ’10 and
Yannick Pilgrim ’11. ,

The Wildcats still have two more conference games and two non-con-
ference ACC matchups before they enter into the SoCon Tournament.

“T am hopeful that the players are more motivated now, since they
have tasted some recent success,” Spear said. “We still have better soc-
cer potential in front of us though.”

Field Hockey
(8-7, 3-3)
10/13 at Dartmouth, Lost 1-3

10/14 at Maine, Won 4-3 OT
10/16 at New Hampshire, Lost 0-3

Swimming
(0-2)

10/13 vs. ECU, Lost 91-205
10/20 at Emory, Lost 92-124

Next up:

Next up: 10/27 at Wingate, vs. Howard

10/24 vs. App State
10/27 vs. Radford Notes:

Alanna Ream °11 broke both the
50 and 100 freestyle school record
at Emory. Scott Frantz ’09 was
named CCSA Swimmer of the
Week for two victories in the 100

and 200 backstroke at ECU.

Notes:
Forward Kayli Maxwell 08 added
to her team leading goal total of 11
in the loss against Pacific.
