2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

Women’s Committee to host
diverse events this semester

By Monica JAMOUNEAU
News Editor

The Davidson Women’s Committee
(DWC) elected new board members and
planned a number of events at its first meet-
ing of the semester last night.

Hannah Rogers-Ganter 08, president of
the DWC, led discussion with a group of
about 30 female students in the Union.

The meetings are dynamic and informa-
tive, as well as brief, for students interested
in women’s issues.

“With our wide range of events, we make
it So every woman on campus can find some-
thing she’s interested in,” Rogers-Ganter
said.

First on the schedule for the DWC is a dis-
cussion on body image in Hispanic culture
on Sept. 17, co-hosted by the Organization
of Latin American Students (OLAS).

It also plans to work with Davidson
African Students Association (DASA), the

Gay-Straight Alliance (GSA) and other.

organizations.

Another popular idea was a “Sex and the
City” viewing at which women can gather
for good food and conversation about issues
like race, relationships, cohabitation, sexual-
ity and single parenthood.

Although the Vagina Monologues are a

New Housing Coordinator.»
The Town of Davidson has hired a new
. affordable housing, coordinator, according
.to the website davidsonnews.net. Cindy

Reid began her new job, which involves

managing developer and builder compli-

ance with the Town of Davidson's afford-

able housing ordinance, last month, .
Reid is also expected to establish a

“tracking system” for affordable housing in
town to ensure that the units are maintained

#

possibility for the small theater production
that DWC plans for later in the fall, at the top
of the list is the play “The Necessary
Targets,” a portrayal of women in war torn
areas. The work was recommended by com-
mittee member Libby Hubbard ’08, who
studied abroad in the Balkans.

Auditions for the play will most likely
occur in late September.

Last year, DWC held an annual aware-
ness-raising walk and faculty-student lunch-
eons designed to bring all women on cam-
pus—students, faculty and staff—together. It
will continue the tradition this semester with
diverse themes.

_ “Think about how often you actually sit
down and eat with a faculty member,”
Rogers-Ganter said. “Almost never.”

Last spring, the organization brought in a
sex toy specialist, who will return sometime
in the coming months, as well as an instruc-
tor on what to look for when you own your
first apartment.

Kristina Johnson ’10 was elected as vice-
president, while Halley Aelion 08 and Sarah
Pate ’08 will serve as publicity chairs.

DWC was organized in 2003 and has
steadily gained members since that time.

Anyone interested in joining the DWC can
email Rogers-Ganter at harogers-
ganter@davidson.edu.

Tlews in Brief

By Auissa IREi AND MONICA JAMOUNEAL
News Editors

, The remainder should be affordable for
those whose incomes are no more than 80,
percent of the median.” of

Reid - was formerly..an assistant city”
attorney in Charlotte. a

~ Laundry i in Ryburn Closed
Students living in Martin Court apart-:,

© ments should be informed that the laundry

services in Ryburn will be unavailable for
two weeks, beginning this Monday, Sept.

at acceptable standards as. they pass* 17. Leslie Urban, Associate Director of

between residents. As of now, there is no
such system in place.

This is the first official affordable hous-
ing coordinator position in the Town of
Davidson. Several officials previously per-

ce Tf students’

Residence Life, says that the facility will
have new washer and dryer machines and
new paint. when renovations are complet-
ed.

laundry. has not been

formed the duties that will now be Reid’s. _-removed by 7 a.m. on Monday, RLO and

» According to davidsonnews.net, -

“Davidson’s affordable housing rules, first.

adopted in 2001 and revised in 2005,

the Physical Plant, who will be doing the
renovations, will not be responsible for lost
or missing clothing, «

require developers to provide 12.5 percent’ “ The Martin Court. F laundry and the

of residential units at prices deemed afford-
able to people with lower incomes...The
town ordinance mandates that 30 percent of
the affordable units should be affordable to
those with annual gross incomes at 50 per-
cent of the area’s median family income.

BPs

newly refurbished College Laundromat
will remain open for those affected by the
closing.

Students will be informed by email about
updates and the official re-opening of the |
jaunciry facility i in Ryburn.

ies i

KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL

Jackson for Mayor

November 6

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007

Women’s Committee will host myriad events this semester, like discussion panels.

Students be warned,
flasher still on the lam

By KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Campus Police believe the suspect
accused of exposing himself to a woman jog-
ger on the Davidson Greenway last week
made another appearance, this time on
College grounds, on Monday.

A man reported encountering a suspicious
male sitting in a silver pickup truck, outside
of the Baker Sports Complex.

The suspect asked the man, who had just
finished exercising in Baker, questions about
his weight and the intensity of his workout.

The man became uncomfortable and con-
tacted Campus Police.

Last Wednesday, a female jogger encoun-
tered a man on the Greenway “with his pants
down, performing an indecent act,” accord-
ing to a campus-wide email from Chief of
Campus Police Fountain Walker.

The woman reported the incident to the
Davidson Police Department, describingthe
man as“a middle-aged white man in his late
40s or early 50s. He was shirtless, wearing a
green or gray baseball cap and tan cargo
shorts.”

“He appeared to have a shaved head and

was wearing glasses.”

The unidentified woman first saw the man
near Robert Walker Drive.

During the second encounter, as she
approached Hudson Place, the man had his
pants down.

He was apparently waiting for her.

According to Walker, security has
increased near the area where the suspect
was initially spotted and around the cross-
country trails.

“Although Davidson is generally a
safe place, it.is not ‘in a bubble.’”

--Angela Thompson

Campus Police Officer

The Campus Police Department is urging
students to use common sense. According to
Angela Thompson, Campus Police Officer,
although Davidson College is generally a
safe place, it is not “in a bubble.” She
reminded students that bad things can hap-
pen anywhere. Do not walk alone by your-
self at night and have the telephone number
of Campus Police on your cell phone.

Admissions building next
in line for renovations

By WILLIAM CANFIELD HUDSON
Staff Writer

Construction on Grey House, the Office of
Admissions located across Main St. from the
Cunningham parking lot, has begun.

According to Director of the Physical
Plant, David Holthouser, the project will be
completed during the fall 2008 semester.

With a projected final cost of $1.2 million
dollars, the Admissions building will have an
additional 5,000 square foot receiving lobby
and meeting space for visitor information
sessions.

“The current Grey building no longer han-
dies the volume of Admission visitors that
cross our threshold every year,” Holthauser
said. “The building will face Gniffith St., so
that when you enter the Town from I-77, you
will recognize a building presence better
than approaching the rear of the building
before.

“Tt will-also have a front door facade on
the north side, so that it will have a destina-
tion type relationship with visitor parking,”
Holthauser said.

Design work for the Grey Admissions

building began in May 2006, and so far there
have not been any delays.

Although the new building will eliminate
some of the old parking spaces used by the
Admissions Office, additional parking wil!
be created among the trees behind WDAV,
resulting in a small net gain of parking
spaces.

The College chose Charlotte-based Heard
Ratzlaff Construction, Inc. to construct the
new building.

The project solicited bids from multiple
companies, including Cresent Construction
Company, Inc. and Liles Construction
Company, Inc. in a competitive bidding
process.

Heard Ratzlaff underbid Crescent and
Liles by six figures to win the project.

Design work for the Grey Admissions
building began in May 2006, and so far there
have not been any delays.

“The design moved along really well,”
Holthouser said. “The department was really
cooperative and insightful in design.”

The Grey House was constructed in the
1850s and last renovated in 1999. The build-
ing was a dormitory until 1999.
