. ARTS

Faculty art exhibit shows grim, jarring pieces

By CAROLINE Woop
Staff Writer

The next time you pass by the VAC, take a
moment to investigate the Faculty Art
Exhibit, featuring pieces by Russ Warren,
Cort Savage and Ryan O’ Malley.

On Sept. 6, the Art Department welcomed
the exhibit with the standard gallery talk and
reception, where Davidson’s best-dressed
Art majors and English professors gathered
to sip wine and show off their stunning intel-
lectualism and cultural sensitivity. Though
the small talk had escalated to a roar, it still

ss Warren’s harrowing “Portraits” causes this student to

couldn’t drown out the pronounced clatter of
high heels on the blindingly polished hard-
wood floors.

The sophisticated parlance came to a halt
as attendees crammed into the largest room
of the Van Every Gallery to hear Ryan
O’Malley, Davidson’s visiting Professor of
Art, discuss his work and development as an
artist.

An expert in what seems to be every type
of print-making known to mankind,

OQ’ Malley focuses specially on mezzotint, a
painstaking method yielding prints with rich
_ depth of light and darkness.

ond

After a simple, friendly explanation of the
mezzotint process and the challenges he
faced, he took the opportunity to show off
the tortured hero under the collared shirt: “If
there were an easier way to do what I do, I'd
take it.”

O’Malley’s grim collection, entitled First
Impressions, includes a diverse array of
prints ranging from “The Weight of
Persistence” to “Skully” and “The New
American West Is Still Shaped by the Gun.”
If the pieces represent his first impressions of
his time at Davidson, as he explained in the
gallery talk, then I don’t know quite what to
think of the place.

The adjoining galleries contain equally
fun and disturbing works. Cort Savage’s
“New Ruptures” includes sculptures and x-
ray light boxes built with materials as varied
and surprising as rubber bands and human
teeth. He includes a brief discussion of each
piece, explaining certain features and posing
questions to the observer on themes such as
mortality and the persistence of supposedly
forgotten parts of our lives.

Russ Warren’s collection “Portraits” fea-
tures jarring paintings of angular, often grin-
ning faces with thought-provoking titles
such as “Try to Smile” and “Everybody Has
a Little Demon.”

The pale, creamy color palette provides a
warm contrast to the dark pieces of the other
galleries; however, Warren’s themes seem no
brighter.

The collection will be on display for
neighbors’ perusal and students’ enlighten-

Say hey there, Delilah, to three

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Late Labor Day night, numerous girls hop-
ing to make the cut for the Delilahs female a
cappella group anxiously awaited their fate.
After completing the audition process con-
sisting of a preliminary audition followed by
a round of call-backs, and waiting for the
current members’ careful decisions, three
new members Elena Delvac ‘11, Lizzy
Gregory ‘11 and Brit’nee Haskins ‘11
received a warm welcome into this year’s
Delilahs.

“We had a lot of really talented people
audition this year, and these girls are the best
of the best,” Secretary Rachel Purcell ’08, ,
said. “We are so excited to add their beauti-
ful voices to our group.”

Kate Denning sings ata recent concert.

Because every member plays a role in
decision making, a group consensus is neces-
sary to select the new members. Musical
ability, personality and needs of the group
are among the criteria considered when
choosing a singer.

When asked about their auditions, all three

new members reported positive experiences,
despite some performance jitters.

“Even though the audition process was
nerve-wracking, I had a lot of fun at the most
random moments, and I think that is an
important part of any audition process.”
Haskin said. “I hope that continues during
this upcoming year in the Delilahs.”

Gregory agreed.

“The members were so supportive
throughout the whole thing,” she comment-
ed. “They wanted you to showcase your
voice, and they appreciated whatever talents
you offered.”

Delvac also underwent a painless audi-
tion. “I was nervous, and the Delilahs were
positive and encouraging,” she said. _~

Delvac attributes her decision to try out for
the Delilahs to the group’s performance on

es ie

By CaroL_tne Woop
22 Staff Writer.

» For those of you new to  Noith €arolina,

a a sample of true Southem food is a must,
ra

and to ap pisiting “establishments with

“Gra nny,”
“homestyle” fare.
That may explain why it took me a year,

ee

food as. Southern as can be and‘c caters to
crowd as. diverse as Charlotte can offer...
Try it for lunch, when the lobby i is full of
business people; or_for supper, * whe
extended families
crowd the vinyl-covered tables. Either
way, you will enjoy the spectacular art of.

. green tomatoes..

“promises 1

Jy display“ local, artist’s paintings for sale,
to find Dish. This trendy little nook serves.“ The frank, direct portraits of women intrigue
~ patrons and art collectors~ alike.

her freshman hall. “They seemed easygoing
and nice, which turned out to be true,” she
said.

Finding inspiration from strong female
singers such as Aretha Franklin and Idina
Menzel (from Broadway shows like “Rent”
and “Wicked”) to jazz legends Billie Holiday
and Marvin Gaye, Delvac, Gregory and
Haskins bring a wide knowledge of diverse
musical styles to the group.

Their favorite types of songs to perform
are equally unique. Haskins prefers R&B,
Delvac loves “Where You Lead” by Carol
King and Gregory favors anything associat-
ed with Disney princesses..

So what do the Delilahs have in store for
the 2007-2008 academic year? They will
perform at an outdoor concert on the Town
Green Oct 23 as well as at LIVE Thursdays

_ Most. Charlotte natives will tell you that

aa “Avenue i is one of the coolest parts Of = fitsch, Dish is kind enough to offer alternatives;

Ave, | is no exception: “Go early to enjoy the.
neighborhood, but be a bit éafiti otis of
ing around too late, at night,

_The surrounding ‘streets are pape with

or at the very least. serves*. Eventing about the’ ‘atmosphere is “authen- the

tie: Even. the walls of the dining room proud-.,

*

*, The most’ fun ‘(and’ difficult) thing about
Dish is deciding what to. order, Though few:
of us will be inclined to indulge.in the fried “

ys
éand: young “couples.chicken livers, the restaurant boasts plenty of
unique dishes, from ‘salmon cakes with

orange cream.to collard greens and a house-

people-watching as much as the fried~ made veggie burger (dubbed excellent by ay

pana penn

highly y reputable: vegan): helices

sIVIN

site sate

¥ sweat” to your good-natured server. When the

> with an outing that’s fun, funky, southern and
‘even a little bit hip?

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPT 12, 2007

ment until Oct. 5. Each collection is trou-
bling in its own way, but all will repay your
time with new insights and fresh perspec-
tives.

Besides, we all know that if you’re in the
mood for a fascinating, thought-provoking
downer, the Van Every Gallery can never be
beat.

geste

Cort Savage’s enigmatic “New Ruptures”

new faces!

Nov 8. A performance at the carnival for the
Children’s Schoolhouse in Huntersville is
also in store.

In addition to their 2006 CD , “Kickin’ Off
Our Heels,” look for a new CD to be released
in the spring of 08. Purcell is keeping mum
about the material that the new CD will fea-
ture.

“We like to keep our upcoming repertoire
a little bit of a surprise, but we are adding
some current hits and ‘90’s pop favorites,”
she said.

With the addition of Delvac, Gregory and
Haskins to the already talented Delilahs, it
looks like the Davidson community will hear
some fantastic music this year.

Also keep an eye out for Davidson’s other
a cappella groups, the Generals and
Androgyny.

” However, if you simply can't stand southern

out the i impressive arsenal of sandwiches.
When you jast; ‘cant, decide, go with the

southem food can be. Every dish i is s served with

-a standard, delicious honeyed biscuit and a

plump little deviled egg, Some label this finish-
ing touch southern, but most call it just plain
weird.. i
The service at*Dish is straightforward and
“friendly; you can bet your sweet tea will be “n

pill arrives, you'll be even more fond of him or
» her; don’t expect to pay more: than eight or 10
* dollars for a fun, unique and. delicious dinner.

/Bveryone needs a ‘break’ ‘after the first few
weeks of school, 50 why not start your year off

You’ll be proud of your new home state.
