THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

DLC educates the younger
community with students

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

This semester, several Davidson students
have teamed up with the Davidson Lands
Conservancy to form the DLC Educational
Outreach Program. The program has been
successful in teaching local fourth grade stu-
dents about the environment and the impor-
tance of land preservation in Davidson, and
is in a way becoming a tradition for local
middle school curriculum.

Pam Dykstra, a board member of the DLC,
travels with the student volunteers to local
elementary schools where they play an edu-
cational game called “Oh Deer” to encour-
age fourth graders to think proactively about
their community.

“Oh Deer” was created by Betsy Brewer
°07 as a part of her biology thesis, and uses
the eager and energetic minds of young stu-
dents to teach them about survival in the
wilderness.

The game’s success is due in part to its
simplicity. At the beginning, the class is split
into two groups. The two groups stand in a
line, back-to-back, with the groups ten yards
apart. One line of students is given the role of
deer, while the other is told they are the
resources of food, water and shelter, all nec-
essary for the deer’s survival. Each of the
“resource” children are given a sign: hands
on their stomach to signify food, hands on
the mouth to represent water or hands on the
head meaning shelter.

When the students hear the word “go,” the
students representing deer must run to find
their matching symbol in the opposite line.
Some children will not be able to find a

ie age a

I oWelfa F * aka &,

match, and will turn into resources conse-
quently, while the ones who do discover their
resource counterparts will continue onto the
next round or “season” as deer.

After the game is over, students gather to
discuss the meaning of the activity, and are
shown its relation to the environment and the
animals of the Davidson community.

The DLC volunteers guide the discussion
to show students the problem with the
decreasing amount of natural resources in
our environment, relating it directly to the
game in which some deer were not able to
survive due to the decreasing number of
resources.

The children are encouraged to think of
new ways to help preserve resources and
how they can make a difference in our envi-
ronment. In an effort to jumpstart the envi-
ronmentally aware minds of these students,
each child is given a DLC reusable bag.

Katie Epstein ’10 became involved in the
program last fall when she met Dykstra at the
volunteer fair.

“The program is an effective way to edu-
cate Davidson youth about the existence, and
ecological importance of, open space.
Hopefully the program will get kids interest-
ed in what’s going on around them and the
conservation of [environmental] space,”
Epstein said.

In a place like Davidson where develop-
ment is rampant, it’s extremely important to
teach kids to understand the interconnected-
ness of actions, especially those of humans,
and how they relate the world around them.”

See DLC, page 4
rer. -

Aen ee che & om gulp: 4

sO

Michael Chabon, Pulitizer Prize winning author and this year’s Conarroe lecturer,

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 3
a

@

relates the inspiration and process behind his novel “The Yiddish Policeman’s Union”

Chabon, from page 1

result, “The Yiddish Policemen’s Union”
was published in 2007.

In his poised but dryly-humorous speech,
Michael Chabon reflected on growing up as
an “American Jew”, the culture with which
he identifies. Though he admitted that he is
not extremely religious, he did describe him-
self as a “nice Jewish boy.”

“It’s always a good idea to make a

mistake if you want to have any-

thing good to write about.”
-Michael Chabon

As an adult, he has learned to embrace his
Judaism and to use his culture and religion as
inspiration for many of his published works.

Chabon is known for novels such as “The
Mysteries of Pittsburgh,” “Wonder Boys”
and Pulitzer Prize-winning “The Amazing
Adventures of Kavalier and Clay.”

Chabon also published several books of
short stories in addition to a number of polit-

ical and literary essays.

Before entering the University of
California at Irvine’s graduate program,
Chabon was at first fearful of approaching
the genres of science fiction and mystery.

“Mystery writers were loved but never ref-
erenced,” Chabon said, regarding his experi-
ence with science fiction writers in the class-
room.

Clearly Chabon has helped to change this
outlook, since multiple Davidson English
classes this year used his novels as texts. A
piece of advice he gives to aspiring young
writers?

“It’s always a good idea to make a mistake
if you want to have anything good to write
about.”

After Chabon presented his lecture he
opened up the floor to questions from the
audience. Questions covered a wide range of
topics, including examinations of his works
and personal questions regarding his inspira-
tions.

The audience was so eager to ask ques-
tions that Tom Ross was forced to cut the
Q&A short.

Davidson students join with
southeast STAND chapters

By IAN Bonp
Staff Writer

Last’ weekend, five Davidson students
jomed 134 other members of other college
and high school STAND chapters throughout
the southeast at UNC-Chapel Hill to discuss
new methods of action on behalf of the
refugees in Darfur.

STAND is the student-led branch of the
anti-genocide organization, Genocide
Intervention Network. STAND was founded
in 2004 by the grandson of a Holocaust sur-
vivor.

The group, which has 800 chapters in high
schools and universities nationwide, focuses
on ending the genocide in Darfur. STAND
also works to prevent genocide in other areas
where ethnic conflict exists, such as Kenya
and Burma, by generating local media cover-
age and grassroots lobbying.

The Davidson branch of STAND began
officially last semester. with a screening of
the critically acclaimed “The Devil Came on
Horseback.” Last semester’s Darfurfast
fundraiser. raised over $1,200 through the
participation of over 150 students, faculty
and staff.

According to Savedarfur.org, government-
supported militias (known as the Janjaweed)
were created in response to rebel attacks on
military bases in Darfur. ;

Since then the Janjaweed have been let
loose by the government in Khartoum.
Thousands of stories of rape, murder and tor-
ture have come from Darfur in the past five
years.

By some estimates, over 400,000
Sudanese have been killed, 2.3 million are
living in internally displaced persons camps
in Darfur and another 200,000 Sudanese are
living in refugee camps in neighboring Chad.

North Carolina college STAND chapters

plan a statewide Week of Action Mar. 31-
Apr. 4. During this week, chapters will focus
on STAND’s current campaign, SEAL.

The campaign encourages President Bush
to stick to the promises he made about end-
ing the genocide, enforce UNAMID, the
UN/African Union peacekeeping mission in
Darfur, apply an all-Sudan solution to the
conflict and lobby China to pressure the gov-
emment in Khartoum to end its genocidal
actions.

The week will include an advocacy letter
writing power-hour and a speech by the only
American to remain in Rwanda during the
1994 genocide.

A three-day mock refugee camp will be set
up on campus where “refugees” will live in
as closely simulated a refugee camp atmos-
phere as possible.

‘The week will conclude with a concert
featuring student performers, testimonials,
poems and documentary clips.

Teddy Schlanger 08, Davidson STAND
chapter president, realizes the difficulty in
gaining student support for a new organiza-
tion.

“Though we recognize that Davidson stu-
dents are spread so thinly, we believe that
this issue is so important that everyone
should consider helping out,” Schlanger said.

“Following the success of the student-led
divestment campaign which resulted in
Congress’ unanimous passing of the Sudan
Accountability and Divestment Act, the
impact of individual students must not be
underestimated. No one should feel discour-
aged by a lack of knowledge or limitation of
time; it’s about wanting to help.”

For more information or to help with the
Week of Action contact teschlanger or
iabond.
