4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

‘Iraq Crisis is America’s Crisis’

By NINA MACE
Staff Writer

On Monday, Dr. Juan Cole delivered a talk
entitled “The Iraq Crisis as America’s Crisis”
to a large audience that filled the 900 Room
to capacity, forcing some to sit on the floor
or stand at the back.

Cole is Professor of Modern Middle
Eastern and South Asian History at the
University of Michigan, and he writes the
online blog “Informed Comment.”

Director of the Dean Rusk International
Studies Program, Dr. Chris Alexander,
describes Cole as “one of America’s most
respected authorities on the Muslim world
and America’s relationship with it.”

While Cole emphasized that there are a
variety of ethnic groups in Iraq, Cole focused
primarily on the Sunnis, Shi’ites and Kurds,
providing a thumbnail explanation of the dif-
ferences between the three discrete groups
and their relations to each other.

The Shi’ites are very devoted to their cler-
ics and have a traditional hierarchy, he said,
and were similar to Catholics in the Christian
world.

The Sunnis, on the other hand, are the “tra-
ditional elite of Iraq,” and he compared their
relationship with the clergy to Protestants.

The Kurds in the North have separatist
tendencies and are not Arabic, unlike the rest
of the country.

Modern Iraq was formed by the British
after World War I. It was initially a colony,
but after a rebellion a Sunni monarch was
instituted. The 1960s saw a turn toward
nationalism when the Baath party staged a
coup. Saddam Hussein eventually emerged
as a party leader and took control in 1979.

In 2003 the United States overthrew the
primarily Sunni Baath party with the help of
Shiite and Kurd expatriates. Then, Cole said,
almost 100,000 Baathists, including school

teachers, were fired from their jobs, and the
army was dissolved. Muhammad Bagir al-
Hakim was put in power.

According to Cole, the U.S. faced conflict
with Grand Ayatollah Ali Sistani, who holds
a lot of the moral authority over the people
and said that the constitution must be written
by Iraqi delegates, chosen democratically

“The U.S.’s idea of caucus-based elections
were a difficult sell,” Cole said. “There does-
n’t seem to be a word for caucus in Arabic.”

Since the elections were not by district,
Cole said that if a particular community did
not vote, it was not represented. When elec-
tions were finally held, the Sunnis decided to
boycott.

Cole told the audience that the constitution
that was written by the elected Parliament
was “a mix of Shiite Fundamentalism and
Kurdish separatism.” He said it does not
allow any laws contradicting Islamic law.
The Kurds were also able to form a Kurdish
confederacy, which Cole describes as essen-
tially an independent country.

According to Cole, in fall 2005 14 percent
of Sunni Arabs in Iraq said it was right to
attack U.S. troops, and the number increased
to 70 percent by August 2006.

“This is where we are today,” Cole said,
“Now what are we going to do about it?”

Cole believes that the U.S. should get out
of the region, but the U.S. needs to be very
careful about how it gets out. Iraq needs to
have provincial elections, he said, and the
U.S. needs to negotiate the withdrawal of
troops from quiet provinces.

Cole also emphasized the importance of
keeping Saudi Arabia and Iran from going to
war with each other.

“My idea,” he said, “is that the U.S. should
play a role as a peace keeper in Iraq. But I
talk to people all around the country, and
they all want me to tell them it’s going to be
all right. It’s not going to be all right.”

Steer Your Future Toward Success.

a FIVE DYNAMIC CONCENTRATIONS
Entrepreneurship, Finance, International Business, Management, Marketing

= MBA LEVEL INTERNSHIPS

Opportunities to study and work on valuable projects for leading
companies both internationally and domestically

mw AND... Curriculum designed to fit ALL

undergraduate majors

) ROLLINS MBA

CRUMMER GRADUATE SCHIOOL OF BUSINESS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007
Wee |

KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL!
JACKSON for MAYOR

Under N.C. law, students may

register-and-vote
on the same day
in the jurisdiction where they
currently reside!

Choose a site, such as the North Meck Public Library,
during the One-Stop Absentee Voting period. The One-Stop
Voting period extends from October 18 to November 3
before Election Day. Same day registration will be available
on all early vote dates. Acceptable forms of identification
include: A student photo ID along with a document from
the school showing the student’s name and current address.

JACKSON for MAYOR:
KEEP DAVIDSON SPECIAL!

Students have interned with companies such as Walt Disney World Corporation, _ ow
Lockheed Martin, Seimens Power Generation, and Merrill Lynch ‘ -——-
a GLOBAL STUDY TRIPS

Begin charting your
own course today
by contacting

Linda Puritz at
lpuritz@rollins.edu
or 800-866-2405,
ext.1.

