THE DAVIDSONIAN

gent. Stoasto d discharged his
jthe platoon, leader, Sergean

‘Baghdad tribunal handed: down. a 10-year x sentence in ied

‘case of Army sniper Evan. Vela, who shot and killed an Tragi
civilian on onder from his Staff Set. Michael Hensley. The.

‘demoted, Teceived an acquittal at his trial.
2 ce

- These cases highlight « one of the most disturbing featur

‘moral irresponsibility . ‘of ‘Certain commanding officers.
Military-leaders like Platoon Sgt. Corrales and Staff Sgt,

accident waiting to happen,” “If soldiers arrive

MLW pe

sroad: diy. they are: erhaps east. ‘capable of

eee and purpo
‘hand down. unduly”

BE 2M as os Bere

: pone in order to’ “prove?/to the other side that Ameri
e moral epee: in, ar, » Such. action ‘ks

‘dea Be 8

Shor. and Vela’ fair and

between obeying | the orders qh a 1 superior and the dictates Ce)
their conscience)

* a SAN

ajor from San « Antonio,
; lehamilton@ davidson. educe

la,» Contacts here at

ished, American soldiers shouldn’t have to make a “ies

‘Lexi Hamilton. 08 isa “Political Science aad Religion

PERSPECTIVES

n Consider other climate change theories

By ANDERS WELLS
Guest Columnist

Two weeks ago, Clint Smith wrote an article stating that
global warming is the “least understood” problem facing our
nation. I agree: global warming is poorly understood. It may
even -be the most profound problem facing our nation. But
the policies suggested by most environmentalists regarding
global warming will only cause us to ignore the problems it
causes, not address them.

I want to preface my arguments by stating that I do under-
stand that global temperatures have increased over the past
century, and I do believe they will continue to do so. I also
believe that these increasing temperatures will cause, and
have caused, profound changes in our world.

I do not think that global warming is “hippie” nonsense.
But to claim that any argument against the common concep-
tions of global warming is just the talk of stupid “conserva-
tives” is to be as irrational as those who claim that global
warming is a myth.

The policies suggested by most
environmentalists regarding glob-
al warming will only cause us to
ignore the problems it causes, not

address them.

After looking at a lot of research, I have come to the con-
clusion that the strongest cause of global warming is varia-
tions in the energy output of the sun.

The energy output of the sun, called the solar constant,
isn't really constant: it changes. The sun goes through peri-
ods of increased energy output (associated with more

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2008 13

sunspots) and periods of decreased output (associated with
fewer sunspots). Recently, we have been going through the
strongest sunspot cycle since humans have been measuring
such cycles.

Furthermore, Mars has been experiencing a strange
increase in global temperatures. That's right: global warming
on Mars. Yet there are no greenhouse-gas-emitting little men
on Mars to explain these increases.

The explanation for the majority of global warming on
Mars and Earth is the same: the sun is bombarding us with
more energy than it has in the recent past. Look at the geo-
logical record of Earth: we've had Ice Age and we've had
global warming. It happens. It's natural.

While global warming is natural, what human beings
have done to the Earth isn't. We've caused enormous dam-
age. The truth is that we've raped the biosphere to such a
degree that many ecosystems are failing because they can
no longer withstand the natural changes caused by global
warming.

We're in trouble. I really don't think there is anything we
can do to stop global warming, but we can prepare for it.

We need to increase our areas of conservation to protect
biodiversity. We need to prepare for droughts, record floods,
famine and stronger hurricanes. We need to understand that
our world is changing swiftly and profoundly.

But most of all, we need to stop sticking our collective
heads in the sand by focusing on trying to reduce carbon
dioxide emissions. Not only_will we fail to change funda-
mentally those carbon dioxide emissions, but it wouldn't
make much difference if we did. We can prepare.

But we need to accept the inevitable. Not to do so is to
prevent us from addressing the problems that global climate
change will cause.

Anders Wells ’08 is a Biology major from Syracuse, N.Y.
Contact him at anwells@davidson.edu

' New arena seating policy ineffective

NATHAN BRADSHAW
Guest Columnist

I want to make one thing perfectly clear: I do not have a
problem with any of the event staff at Baker Sports Complex,
nor with any staff in general. I have a strong respect for all of
our staff at Davidson, and I consider many of them friends.
So please, as you read this, do not read into it any kind of
objection to, or disapproval of, individuals doing their job by
enforcing policy.

Instead, read every level of objection to, and disapproval
of, the policy they have been asked to enforce. The short ver-
sion: the new ticketing policy for home basketball games
sucks.

I challenge anyone to disagree with any of the following
statements. One: The best seats in Belk Arena are the red
seats. Two: Fans want to sit in the best seats. The trifecta: Our
teams appreciate and feed off fan support and volume. Count
the basket, and here’s the foul: There have been empty red
seats at every Davidson home game since the new ticketing
policy began.

Case in point: Feb. 9, 2008, Blackout Belk Arena day.
Sitting 12 rows back in the bleachers, I had a great vantage
point from which to count empty red seats. At tip-off, I
counted 128 red seats unoccupied, and that was only on the
three sides that I could see.

Add to this that I had purchased my ticket at 9:08 a.m. on
Feb. 4. Within eight minutes, all the red seats had been pur-
chased. Arriving at 1:30 on the ninth for the 2 p.m. tip-off, I
found Section 104 already filled twelve rows deep. To recap,
arriving early both for ticket purchase and at the game itself,
I found myself eight rows from the top of Belk Arena.

Count the basket, and here’s the
foul: there have been empty red
seats at every Davidson home
game since the new ticketing
policy began.

And over 128 red seats remained empty.

I’m not making a case that I should have gotten one; I was
a mere half-hour early to the game, a sin I will take to my
grave. The horde in front of me, however, which foamed at
the mouth and did its best to match the intensity of the end
zone and the D-Block—these fans deserved better seats.

Case number two: earlier that week, when Davidson
played Elon and the tickets went on sale on the fourth as

well, almost half of the red seats were visible (meaning no
fans stood in front of them).

Case number three: the Furman game, Feb. 16. I had bro-
ken my leg that Friday, and so at Saturday’s game I wasn’t
really about to make it up the narrow and steep stairs of the
bleachers. Of course, I couldn’t possibly sit in a red seat.

Those empty seats were reserved for fans who were dedi-
cated enough to buy their tickets early. I guess they used up
their dedication a week in advance and, gosh darn it, just
couldn’t be bothered to come to the game itself.

Tcouldn’t, however, watch the game while standing behind

Why is an arena that serves a
community and that seats 5,700
treating ticket policy as though it
served stockholders and seated
25,000?

the railing above the red seats. Event staff asked me to go to
my seat several times; I explained my situation each time.
Finally, the gentleman in charge informed me that I could sit
in the upper corner of the end zone, but that I “was to go no
further than that.”

Oh, by the way, let me apologize at this time if anyone in
that section felt threatened by my presence in one of the
twelve empty seats behind them.

I will emphasize again that I do not blame any of the staff
for the bureaucratic farce that having a man on crutches
watch a basketball game entailed. I blame the bureaucracy
that put the rules there.

Why? Why would we have some of the best seats in Belk
Arena empty while demanding that fans move up to the
bleachers? Why is a single man standing on crutches behind
the railing a threat to other spectators? Why are we diffusing
our fans and their vociferous support-in our own gymnasi-
um?

Why is an arena that serves a community and that seats
5,700 treating ticket policy as though it served stockholders
and seated 25,000?

And why, despite suggesting little more than common
sense, will no part of this policy change? Yes, that is a taunt.
And if the people who make policy prove me wrong, I will
be glad to retract it.

Nathan Bradshaw
Swannanoa, N.C.
nabradshaw @ davidson.edu

708 is an English major from
Contact him at
