THE DAVIDSONIAN
Ahmadinejad’s
Columbia appear-
ance unacceptable

Columbia University took
advantage of President
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad’s visit
to the UN General Assembly in
New York to invite him to speak
at their institution. Columbia
viewed: the invitation as a
demonstration. of its tolerance
for other cultures and opposing
viewpoints. The backlash from
New Yorkers, as well as many
other Americans, was consider-
able. This pressure led
Columbia’s president Lee
Bollinger to introduce Ahmadinejad as “a petty and cruel
dictator.”

Unfortunately, Bollinger and his school seem to think they
took the right action: the institution stood up to the tyrant yet
simultaneously felt tolerant for allowing him to speak.
However, Columbia did not display tolerance towards Jews,
women, our military or patriots. In the name of tolerance,
Columbia University absolutely offended nearly the entire
country.

The real question for Columbia is:
what can anyone of moral sub-
stance learn from Ahmadinejad?
Just because Ahmadinejad is the
president of a country does not

; make his words valuable.

Columbia’s invitation to Ahmadinejad was, as Bollinger
said, “in the keeping of Columbia’s long standing tradition
of serving as a major forum for robust debate.” The problem
with this statement is that Columbia does not have said tra-
dition. Columbia’s commitment to diversity of thought and
free speech is abysmal. Columbia accepts free speech as
jong as it follows its left-wing anti-American mold.
Anything outside of that the college does not consider free
speech and as such disrespects it.

Columbia’s treatment of Minuteman leader Jim Gilchrist
clearly demonstrates the institution’s policy. The Minutemen
do not promote or engage in genocide, racism or sexism.
They correctly believe that if the government refuses to
secure our borders, citizens should. They believe that our
laws should be followed and as such oppose illegal immigra-
tion. Columbia demonstrated its commitment to free speech
and robust debate by storming the stage and preventing Mr.
Gilchrist from speaking. Columbia is so protective of free
speech rights that it does not allow anyone to have them.

The real question for Columbia is: what can anyone of
moral substance learn from Ahmadinejad? Just because
Ahmadinejad is the president of a country does not make his
words valuable. Iran is a terrorist organization hiding under
the guise of a country. Ahmadinejad, as president of that
country is, at best, a terrorist. He enjoys the suffering of oth-
ers. Ahmadinejad does not believe in women’s rights, free
speech, freedom of religion or freedom in general.

Columbia University legitimized Ahmadinejad and his
words when it invited him to its podium. The school implied
that Ahmadinejad is worth hearing and that his speech could
be of some use to students. What are students supposed to
learn from Ahmadinejad? He can teach them how to be utter-
ly ignorant of facts, to torture, murder and hate. Columbia
acts as if the murders of innocent individuals, the annihila-
tion of Israel or the Holocaust are debatable topics. They are
not.

Some make the argument that understanding him allows
us to better oppose and condemn him. In no way do we need
to understand terrorists before we can act. We do not need to
identify with terrorists’ grievances or how they became the
way they are in order to eliminate them. It is never necessary
to understand a man before condemning him. The same goes
for a man like Ahmadinejad. He is easily condemnable with-
out giving him the opportunity to speak, in person or any
other means. His actions speak for him.

By granting Ahmadinejad a forum, Columbia is just as
condemnable.

Bobby DesPain ’1] is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 3, 2007. 9

Sa
What not to do with a Davidson education

By Marc RODRIGUIS
Guest Columnist

Today Burger King CEO and Davidson alum John
Chidsey will deliver a lecture entitled “How Davidson
Prepared Me to Work at Burger King.” One thing you prob-
ably won’t hear Mr. Chidsey mention, however, is the reali-
ty of sweatshop conditions and brutal exploitation in
Florida’s agricultural fields that supply Burger King with its
tomatoes.

Mr. Chidsey may also neglect to mention the historic
opportunity that Burger King has—and has thus far refused
to accept—to help bring to an end Florida’s “Harvest of
Shame.”

At the going rate, workers have
to pick about 2.5 TONS of toma-
toes in a day to earn the equiva-
lent of minimum wage during a
10-hour workday.

Here’s a quick snapshot of the conditions faced by thou-
sands of women and men who toil long hours to bring those
tomatoes to your local Burger King restaurant: tomato pick-
ers earn, on average, $10,000 per year, well below the feder-
al poverty line.

Pickers are paid about the same per-bucket piece rate
today as they were in 1980—almost 30 years of stagnant
wages. At the going rate, workers have to pick about 2.5
TONS of tomatoes in a day to earn the equivalent of mini-
mum wage during a 10-hour workday. Florida farm workers
are denied many fundamental labor and human rights, such
as the right to overtime pay and the right to organize. In the
most extreme cases, workers face conditions of modern-day
slavery.

Today, as a result of the leadership and work of the
Coalition of Immokalee Workers (CIW)—an award-winning
human rights organization based out of southwest Florida—
both the world’s largest restaurant company, Yum Brands
(parent company of Taco Bell, Pizza Hut and KFC), and
McDonald’s, the world’s largest restaurant chain, have
signed agreements to improve farm workers’ wages and
working conditions in the fields that supply their tomatoes.
Given the historic opportunity to follow suit and work with
the CIW in ensuring that the tomatoes it purchases for its
restaurants don’t come from conditions that violate workers’

Trusty steeds: an ode

DANIEL VAN OUDENAREN
Guest Columnist

Community Bikes empower us with superhuman abilities.
Their release to the College by committed members of
Davidson Outdoors occurred last week in a joyous rite
heretofore unreported by The Davidsonian, or any publica-
tion. That this is one of the most crucial events of the semes-
ter has gone largely unnoticed.

Those who might possess glittering, personally-fitted all-
terrain mountain bikes with gears can afford a response of
disdain or indifference. For those who arrive to class 10 min-
utes early or who saunter through their days with no sports
practice, ATs, work-study, homework or frat parties, the
community bike would seem to be a croaky piece of unnec-
essary machinery cluttering the lawns of our beautiful cam-
pus.

My friends, we cannot afford non-
commitment! Ride a community
bike today! Share one with your
neighbor, with your family, with

your professor!

Indeed, many a student such as these have I seen walk by
one of our alluring Community Bikes without so much as
turning their heads!

I confess that, on seeing this, I shed bitter tears of some-
thing akin to commiseration for the bike until my tears
changed to fresh ones of joy that I myself might ride the
bike. And such has been my rapport with the Community
Bike; the indifference and concomitant abuse the bikes suf-
fer brackets the well of joy that the Community Bike
Provision has brought to my heart.

My friends, we cannot afford non-commitment! Ride a

rights—or worse—Burger King has instead launched a
smear campaign rife with blatant lies, claiming that the CTW
has “asked Burger King to write it a check” and even calling
into question the existence of the hard-fought Yum and
McDonald’s agreements. (The CIW has helped to investigate
and prosecute five cases of modern-day slavery in the fields
since 1997, freeing over 1,000 workers. The new book
“Nobodies” by John Bowe documents these cases.)

In response, Stated Clerk of the General Assembly of the
Presbyterian Church (USA) Clifton Kirkpatrick, himself a
Davidson alum, recently wrote to Burger King: “The central
provision of the CIW’s campaign is that fast-food corpora-
tions change their purchasing practices so that they ensure
workers’ human rights, rather than create conditions where
human rights abuses flourish. If this is to be accomplished, it
is the corporation’s own supply chain that must itself route
the payment [of one penny more per pound of tomatoes pur-
chased] to the workers. Neither conceptually nor mechani-
cally would it work for CIW to act as a conduit for these pay-
ments....We are troubled that you have seen fit to try to dam-
age the credibility and reputation of the CIW, an organization
that has a proven record of integrity and good working rela-
tionships with other corporations. Further, through these
comments you have denigrated what are admirable advances
in the protection of farm workers’ human rights by other cor-
porations.” oo

Today, in the wake of the Yum
Brands and McDonald'’s agree-
ments, we stand on the threshold
of a more modern, more humane
agricultural industry in Florida.

Today, in the wake of the Yum Brands and McDonald’s
agreements, we stand on the threshold of a more modern,
more humane agricultural industry in Florida. Yet, facing this
historic opportunity, Burger King seems to have chosen busi-.
ness as usual over progress, continued exploitation over jus-
tice and empty excuses and lies over responsibility. Tell us,
Mr. Chidsey, is this also what Davidson prepared you for?

Marc Rodriguis is from Immokalee, FL. He is the co-coor-
dinator of the Student/Farmworker Alliance. Contact him at
marc @sfalliance.org.

to community bikes

community bike today! Share one with your neighbor, with
your family, with your professor! No great or worthy deed
have we done to earn these bikes, it seems. They have come
to use as if of their own accord, streaming forth before us as
a mighty rolling river, in great caravans of red and yellow
and tinkle and creak.

Not even a great storm of rain and hail could keep me from
the handlebars of a Community Bike, no, not even the burn-
ing heat of the sun-warmed seat in spring, or the voracious-
ly biting wind upon my gloveless hands in winter. Oh, the
wind in my ears—song of freedom! Ever must we cherish
this gift, my friends.

But lest we think our path will be always carefree and
downhill, let us consider the work that needs to be done.
Community Biking is a field that we are only just now begin-
ning to understand.

While some have generally mastered the technical aspects
of Community Bike maintenance, questions remain about
the nature of the Community Bike-community relationship,
distribution and patterns of commute, parking and kick-stand
practices, personal seizure and public safety concerns like
biker gangs, demographics of use, minority ridership and
optimal sizing policy. Beyond such research, the most press-
ing issues now are raising community awareness and educat-
ing the public about the benefits and risks of Community
Bike use.

Few of the symposia held thus far have dealt forthrightly
with challenges facing us. Few of our riders have thought
carefully about their responsibilities. Few of our educators
have taught biking use and etiquette.

Now let us turn from these inadequacies and face boldly
this new age of the bike. Now is the time to mount upon tie-
pedals of this progress, to accept therein, with wind-tume”
faces, the locomotion of destiny, that these reeling, blazin
yellow hulks of speed may continue to roll out for us at tt
hour of our need, stately and implacable, our very own cha:
iots of fire.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’07 is a classics major fro.
Bethesda, MD. Contact him
davanoudenaren@davidson.edu.
