10 THE DAVIDSONIAN . SPORTS WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

The Big Ten has big time problems

By OMAR PICKETT 34-32. If they stumbled in week one, they laid an egg in week
Staff Writer two, as the Oregon Ducks took them to the woodshed, 39-7. Did
I mention that both of these games were home games?
It’s amazing how far the mighty have fallen. Earlier this sum- But while Michigan’s struggles have been well-documented,

mer, most pundits considered the Big Ten to be one of the other Big 10 teams had their fair share of early season embar-
strongest conferences in college football. The conference had  rassments. Iowa, a team that experts considered a sleeper in the
national championship caliber teams, conference, lost to its lowly state rival, Iowa State. The
experienced coaches and a bevy of Wisconsin Badgers, the favorite to win the Big 10, not only
future NFL stars on almost every found themselves in a nail-biter with the Running Rebels of
team. Michigan was ranked fifth in UNLV, but were in serious danger of being the second Big Ten
the Associated Press preseason top team to lose to a Southern Conference team this year, as the
= 25, Wisconsin was ranked seventh
and Ohio State was llth. After a With one heartbreaking loss after another, the
shaky bowl season culminating in conference's credibility diminishes. At this

Southern Cal thumping Michigan and . . :
Florida annihilating Ohio State in the point, the only good news for the Big 10 is that,

A national championship, Big Ten foot- 5 long as the ACC is still a BCS conference, it
ball fans expected to see the conference bounce back and show won't be considered the worst.
that they belonged in the discussions of college football’s top
conferences. Citadel played them close in a 45-31 game. Minnesota is in a
Three weeks into the season these hopes are dead. total freefall, losing to Bowling Green and Florida Atlantic. To
With one heartbreaking loss after another, the conference’s top things off, Northwestern ruined Duke’s epic losing streak,
credibility diminishes. At this point, the only good news for the _ giving Duke its first win in nearly two years and its first road
Big 10 is that, as long as the ACC is still a BCS conference, it win in nearly four years!
won’t be considered the worst. One could argue that the Big Ten is not as horrible as adver-
Problems exist throughout the conference. With offensive _ tised. It is the only conference with three teams in the top 10.
schemes probably considered new and exciting during WWII However, none of the three teams has looked very impressive.
and defenses that look like they’ve made one too many trips to The conference has not defeated one non-conference, ranked
Bojangles over the summer, it is no wonder that the conference opponent. And no team looks to be a serious national champi-
has produced so many embarrassing performances in non-con- _onship contender. No offense to my friends from the northern
ference games. Pacific, but if the conference’s premiere victory comes against
Let’s start with Michigan, one of the most historically suc- | Washington, then something is desperately wrong with Big Ten
cessful teams. They had seniors who were supposed to lead the football. Rest assured, these problems will definitely be evident
Wolverines to the national championship. (The NCAA video _ by bowl season.
game reflects the expectation; they are ranked 99 out of 100!) In
week one, they were the victim of the biggest upset in college Omar Pickett ’09 is a men’s basketball manager who loves Bojangles, fudge-
football history courtesy of our Mountaineer friends in Boone, _“ic/es and shifting government documents.

; Field Hockey splits games, Goeke honored

By Ray FRANCIS | regulation, and Sarah Addison ’09 scored with just over a
Staff Writer minute to play to the Wildcats a 2-1 edge. Kayli Maxwell ’08
assisted on both goals.

The Wildcats’ field hockey team split a pair of conference The Wildcats appeared to have the game in hand, but the
games last week, dropping a 2-0 heartbreaker to California on Lancers were not ready to give up. Mary Freeman converted a
Thursday and winning a 3-2 double-overtime thriller against penalty stroke with no time remaining to send the game to over-
Longwood on Sunday. time.

The California Bears dominated the Wildcats in time of pos- Longwood held a slim 13-12 edge in shots during regulation
session and outshot Davidson 23- before dominating the first overtime ses-
4. Despite these numbers, sion, outshooting the Wildcats 10-1 and
Davidson managed to keep eared five penalty corners. However,
California off the board for over 60 the Cats’ defense, led by Goeke’s 12
minutes. Ashley Glosz finally saves, weathered the storm and forced a
scored for the Bears with 8:44 second overtime period. Goeke’s fantas-
remaining on a penalty shot, and tic performance earned her NorPac
Jennifer Crane added another Defensive Player of the Week honors for
score off a penalty corner a minute the week of September 18.
later to secure the win. Eighty seconds into the second ses-

Christa Goeke °10 made 10 sion, Maxwell, who secured Offensive
saves for the Wildcats, including a Player of the Week honors earlier this
sliding stop seven minutes into the season, put a penalty corner in the back
second half to preserve the shutout of the net to give the Wildcats their

courtesy of Sports Info
Christa Goeke ’10, Defensive Player of the Week.

for a time. most dramatic victory of the season.

“I thought we played well and worked hard tonight,” coach “I thought the game was a really good example of how we can
Ginny Sutton said after the Thursday game. keep fighting and come out with the win,” Maxwell said.

“Our defenders made some tremendous plays, and Crista had “Even though Longwood out-shot us in the first overtime, we
another great night, but we just had a tough time getting the ball didn’t let that get us down. We kept fighting and were able to get
to our forwards.” a penalty stroke that luckily went in. I believe that today’s win

Davidson had better fortune Sunday afternoon against confer-_ will help us in the next few weeks with the rest of our NorPac
ence foe Longwood, winning 3-2 in double overtime. games.”

After a scoreless first half, the Lancers’ Christin Newbold This week’s results leave the Wildcats at 4-2 overall and 1-2
broke the stalemate seven minutes into the second half with a in the NorPac. The team will play the Radford Highlanders on
goal. Catherine Ransone ’08 scored with 10 minutes to go in Wednesday and Applachian State in Boone on Sunday.

Volleyball (5-7) Football (2-1) Women’ Ss Soccer (2-3) Men’s Soccer (1-3) Field Hockey (3-1) Cross Country

3-0 loss against UC Irvine 21-20 win against Lenoir-Rhyne 3-1 win against Mercer 1-5 Loss against Charlotte 2-0 loss against California Men 8K
3-0 loss against Cal Bakersfield 3-2 win against Longwood 8- Morris, Sam (26:32)
3-0 loss against Arizona Next up: Next up: Next up: 23- Sieracki, Thaddeus (28:18)
Bye Week 9/21 vs. Vanderbilt 9/21 vs. California Next: 25- Schmitt, Charlie (28:35)
Next up: 9/29 vs. Jacksonville 9/23 vs. LSU 9/23 vs. Stanford 9/19 vs. Radford 27- Marcil, Greg (28:45)
9/14 vs. UC Irvine 9/23 at Appalachian State
- 9/15 vs. Cal State Bakersfield Women SK
Notes: Notes: Notes: Notes: 1-Sanker, Caroline (17:12)
Notes: Kirk Benedict ’10 leads the team Bevin English ’08 added 8 saves toher Robby Hoak ’08 scored his second Goalkeeper Christa Goeke ’10 2- Burns, Brenna (17:20)
Sarabeth Peele ’11 gained a spot with three touchdowns. Kirk record, while the Wildcats jumped out _ goal of the year in the soccer team’s _ received NorPac Defensive Player 4 Annie O'Donnell (18:26)
w2Z, on the All Tournament Team at the Konert ’09 is the first Wildcat to _ to 2-0 on the season at Alumni Field for 5-1 defeat against Charlotte. of the Week honors after her stellar 6-Childs, Lauren (18:44)
Arizona Invitational; despite his receive for 100 yards or more in a the second year in a row. play against Longwood.
individual milestone, the team has game since Ryan Hubbard ’08 had Notes: Caroline Sanker ’09 set

dropped 4 straight games. 189 against Butler last year. school record for the 5K.
