10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

already has opinions about the validity of McNi bb’:
“comments, I’m asking you to forget about his com.
_ments and consider Menabb as a football player.
“During atime in which the: AFC has dominated.
“football, McNabb has been arguably the best quart
back: in the NFC.;McNabb has. won 65 percent of
_games over his football career.’ He led the Eagles to
four straight NFC championship games and has led
‘the Eagles to a Superbowl. «The Eagles,:under his
leadership, have won five of the last: six’ NFC’east.
Alivision titles.’ He has been to. five Pro-bowls. and
“was the 2004 NFC offensive player of the year.’ Even.
‘more: impressive, outside of Terrell Owens, he has
“won. these games, with’ wide, receivers like ‘James.
-Thrash and Todd Pinkston.”
- Despite that success, McNabb has been one of the.
‘most’ scrutinized quarterbacks of our time, The day:
che. was. drafted, the Philadelphia faithful, met him
with a’chorus ot” boos.. In 2004; Rush Limbaugh.
‘famously criticized him on ESPN, saying that he was,
only hyped because: he: was a. black: quarterback. A
Philadelphia leader of the: NAACP. ripped. him
because he is too much. of a pocket passer. Despite
being more successful than any other quarterback. i in
the NFC, he’s been the most scrutinized NFC quar-.
terback outside of Rex Grossman, whose quarterback,
Play deserves to be on the trailor for a- horror film
50 why does such a successful quarterback rece

“throughout his entire career, *Deepite this jai,
McNabb has shown howyif there is any quarterback
_who ean handle the Philadelphia criticism from eve
é the it’s Donovan McNabb, ”

b ee ee

sae

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 2007

Top Southern sports experiences

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

Every so often, we at The Davidsonian try to remind ourselves
of the wider world outside of the little bubble home called
Davidson. As sports editor, I thought I would make a small con-
tribution to that effort by pointing out some of the great sports
experiences that you can find here in the Southeast.

Duke/UNC Basketball

It doesn’t matter if you don’t bleed one of the two shades of
blue in the Tobacco Road rivalry, you have to respect the passion
and intensity of all the games played on the hardwood between
Duke and North Carolina. You only have to go back as far as last
year’s elbow shot heard round the world to know how much
these teams and fans hate each other. Tickets to one of these
games are always hard to come by, so you better get on
Facebook and start badgering your UNC/Duke friends now.

Clemson Football

If the pageantry of college football is your thing, you should
make your way south and get out of the Tar Heel state. I will
always be partial to the college football experience right down I-
85 South on the other side of Greenville, SC. In places like
Clemson, students worry more about their wide receivers’ catch-

to-drop ratio than their Agriculture 101 homework, and some-
times that can be pretty refreshing. If being among 90,000 mani-
acal, orange-clad Tiger fans during the “most exciting 25 sec-
onds in college football,” as the Tigers run down the hill doesn’t
get your blood flowing, then you’ve been sitting in the library
too long. Also, I hear that there are some pretty good rivalries in
college football in the south...something about some schools like
Auburn and Alabama.

NASCAR

In all fairness to my readers, I am not a NASCAR fan. I have
never watched a race and have never been to a speedway. Partly
this is because I have a very low threshold of patience, and
somehow watching cars circling around while hoping for a fiery
wreck just isn’t my thing. But it is also because I have been told
that after I go to my first race in person, I will be hooked for life.
That’s not a risk that I want to run. So if any of y’all have
_ inklings of being a NASCAR lifer, stick around Davidson a lit-
tle bit after graduation and attend next year’s Coca Cola 600 at
the Lowe’s Motor Speedway next to Concord Mills mall. I take
no responsibility for any permanent damage you suffer as a
result.

Minor League Baseball

Although many Davidson students eventually make their way
elsewhere during the summer months, the Southeast offers some
incredible summer experiences in the form of minor league
baseball. The classic film “Bull Durham” chronicled the famous
Durham Bulls who play in a newly renovated park in North

Carolina’s piedmont. A little further south in Charleston, the sin-
gle-A Riverdogs play under the management of the most notori-
ous general managing family in professional sports: the Veecks.
Bill Veeck was best known for his disco burn in Chicago when
he almost burned down the stadium during a promotion. His son,
Mike, has hosted Riverdog functions like Nobody Night, Dog
Night, and the always awkward Silent Night. If you are really
into YouTube and coaching antics, you can head over to
Asheville or Jackson, Mississippi where managers in past sea-
sons have been known to make fools of themselves throwing
fake grenades at the umpires.

Everything Else...

The Southeast also has a few notable professional teams such
as the Panthers, Hurricanes and Braves that have had some suc-
cess. But with all due respect to those franchises and their fan
contingencies (of which I am a part), most professional sports
are better experienced in different parts of the country. It seems
that Boston really has the edge right now with the popularity of
the Red Sox and Patriots. Other cities like Chicago, New York
and San Francisco have an intense urban base for their profes-
sional teams, while most fans of teams in Atlanta and Charlotte
commute to games and seem to disappear when teams struggle.
So stick to NASCAR, college sports and minor league baseball
when you are looking to have an enjoyable sports experience in
the Southeast.

By Witt Bryans *
, Sports Editor Lae

basketball S€ASON..o, 1 ges
Although the venue, team members and audience will be
argely the same as years past, there is one big difference i in this
year’s event; it will be nationally televised on ESPNU.
The-2007 version of Night. with the Cats will be.a pep rally
event aimed to build support for the men’s and women’s basket-
ball teams and. put on a show for the student and community
crowd. This event will feature a li ghts-out introduction sequence
for players on both teams. Similar to last year, the players. and
coaches. will participate in several dances and skits on the Belk
Arena court. Following that sequence, a pep rally during which
cheerleaders and the pep band will lead the students and com-
munity members in cheers and the fight songs.’To continue the
€xcitement, one lucky fan will also have the chance to shoot four
shots, including:a half-court shot, to win $10,000 in cash. ¢
The biggest change:in this year’s event will be the increased
focus on basketball. Due to ESPNU’s presence,there will not be
acommunity carnival this year and the West set of bleachers will
be. pulled out. for seating.;The team coaches have, approved a
three-point contest, and some of the conference’s. top perimeter
players will get a chance to show their stuff. Sources have men-
tioned the possibility . of a dunk: contest; but that is still uncon-
firmed at this time: An intrasquad s scrimmage will end the festi

ming piece that will air on Friday, Oct 12; Davidson i is one of

four schools; including, Georgetown, Memphis and. Southern
iting

Volleyball (5-10)

3-0 loss against Western Carolina
3-0 loss against Chattanooga ago)
Next up:
9/28 vs. College of Charleston
9/29 vs. The Citadel .

Next up:

Notes:

The team has lost five straight games Notes:

and their first year star Sarabeth Peele Football starts conference play this week
against Jacksonville, a team they defeat-
ed last year.

"11. Can things get any worse?

Football (2-1)

21-20 win against Lenoir-Rhyne (2 wks

9/29 vs. Jacksonville
10/6 vs. Morehead St.

Women’s Soccer (4-3)

2-1 win against Vanderbuilt
3-0 win against LSU

Next up:
9/27 vs. Appalachian State
9/30 vs. The Citadel

Notes: Soccer won a tournament title,
Kyri Bye-Nagel was named SoCon
Player of the Week and Nancy Haskell
was named to the Soccer Buzz Elite Feet
National Team of the Week.

Men’s Soccer (1-6)

2-1 loss against California
2-0 loss against Stanford

Next up:
9/30 at Elon
10/3 vs. South Carolina

Robby Hoak ’08 scored his second goal of
the year in the soccer team’s 5-1 defeat

Field Hockey (6-3)

2-0 win against Radford
3-2 win against Appalachian State
0-8 loss against #1 North Carolina

Next:
9/28 vs. Michigan State
10/1 vs. Catawba

Notes:
Davidson had its 3-game winning streak
snapped by the nation’s top team on Tuesday.
The Tar Heels held Davidson without a shot.

Notes:

against Charlotte.
