other variables constant, little men on horsies make a dif-
ference in a person ’s life. This reality reveals a Liens on

AL Homecoming, The Davidsonian “observed more sun
dresses and Vera Bradley purses than signs and face paint,
That’s not a football game; That’s the Carolina Cup, That’s
also,: for those, who hadn’t. experienced this culture ‘before;
coming here,. “distinctly Davidson,’
But, of course, Polo shirts aren’t the real concern, What
thers us is the “I’m better than you’’attitude. Anyone
_with half a cerebral cortex’ knows. that people judge each
‘other based on appearance,;To some extent, this is egiti-.
amate insofar as people deliberately choose how they pres-
“ent themselves. But there reaches a point at-which judging
“people. based on their clothing becomes a form of preju-:
dice:-That people wear preppy clothing is fine, that people-
wear preppy clothing because they want attention, accept-
_ance_or/a hook-up is sad though understandable, but that:
preppy clothing becomes.a. symbol of superiority, in addi-
tion to being a symbol of wealth, is, well, pretentious.
the words of one professor, “Polo is the new gold.”)’
it’s not just the way we dress; pretentiousness at Davidson,
-assumes many forms. Clothing is simply the most obvious.
? Perhaps, you'll aecognize. some, of. the: ‘subtler. forms of
Davidson pretentiousness:- the. grammar, expert (who makes
“sure, that. you. speak’ correctly), the T- have-more-work-than-
you-do person (who turns crazy. workloads into a contest), the
: _ self-consciously: artistic student (who i inverts what we said ear-
lier about Polo shirts) and the omniscient person (who thinks
he’s God). “These people—sometimes us; "we, admit —aren’t
merely pretentious,"They’re freakin’ annoyin,
‘One Might even argue: that Davidson, by ts,
teaches us to be pretentious. Witness the “: safety school” chants
at een games and the general attitude, in one student’s

Still, if The Davidsonian had to select only one.cause of.
retentiousness; we would choose the. sense. of entitlement:
that often - “accompanies wealth.. Granted, most Davidson
students come from privileged backgrounds, but that does-
n't mean that they need to flaunt their wealth in the form of.
“namebrand clothing and great prep school vocabularies.
We wrote last year about making Davidson a comfortable.

place for lower income students whom the new £No loans”

policy hopes to attract. For these students, it is not simply.

‘a matter of getting into Davidson and paying for the edu-.

‘eation but an issue of feeling accepted by wealthier peers.
If’ Davidson wants to become more. socioeconomically:
diverse, and not just hold idealistie values in what some.

- Might. call another excuse for self-righteousness, the:
_College’s students must examine their attitudes. &

-» Becoming less pretentious doesn’t-mean throwing out.
“your Polos, but consider minimizin 18 or eliminating the atti-
tudes underlying them.

>» *Pity the person who actually wins s this contest

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX. LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Summerlee Walter
Managing Editor
Pierce Trumbo
News Editors
oe Alissa Irei & Monica Jamouneau
Sa ¢ 4 Perspectives Editors
* Katie Miller & Laura Van Oudenaren .
Arts & Living Editors .
Jennifer Errington & Mike Wellman
Yowl Editors é
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian ‘
Sports Editors 4
Will Bryan & Patrick MeArdle
Photography Editor 2”
Ben Elinor “*
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Karen VanderMolen & Hailey Brantley

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic ye
s by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please:
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.. Phone (704) 894-2148. E-mail
Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room 411 —
- of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters to the
editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the.
, Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50. 00 pers,
year. Advertising rates are available upon request. © <4"

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College, ;

ANTHONY BROWN AND ANDREW JOHNSON
Guest Columnists

Much controversy has arisen over the flying of the
Confederate flag at SAE; the flag was not the problem — it
was a symptom of a much larger problem, a symptom of a
community that must force itself to have an open and honest
discussion of issues that make us feel uncomfortable. The
brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon did not intend to offend
anyone, but they are men, and men cannot hide from the
consequences of their actions behind the veil of their inten-
tions.

To some the flag is a symbol of heritage, to many others it
is a symbol of hate, but all too often we become so con-
cemed with proving our own opinion that we forget to rec-
ognize the perspectives of others. It behooves us to be aware
of how our opinions can hurt others regardless of intention-
ality or lack there of.

Our fraternities met together last Thursday to discuss the
issue of the Flag. Notice how we write discuss and not
debate. The men of Alpha Phi Alpha did not approach the
controversy as moral superiors, nor did the brothers of
Sigma Alpha walk in on the defensive because either attitude
would have caused the meeting to degenerate into an unpro-
ductive war of opinions.

One element of this meeting which made it so successful
was its informality. It is not necessary to wear suits and
shout from podiums every time we have a difference in
opinion. We gathered in a basement, sat together on couch-
es, and had a true conversation with one another. The low-
key nature of our meeting helped everyone to feel relaxed
and comfortable enough to communicate our opinions with-
out fear of judgment from our peers. This is how our frater-
nities tumed a potentially negative incident into a positive
opportunity, i.e. the initial step in an inter-fraternity relation-
ship. We all left with a more solid foundation to build friend-
ships upon.

How could this incident have been avoided? One solution.

is the presence of personal, cross-cultural relationships. We
all should fervently strive to build relationships with people
different from ourselves. It’s not always as easy as it sounds
and often requires us to step outside our comfort zone, but it
is absolutely necessary.

Genuine cross-cultural relations can give us the ability to
understand the world from several different perspectives,

IVES

Flag sparks discussion between fraternities

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
SEPTEMBER 19, 2007

making us more relatable human beings. As one Alphaman
said, “We shouldn’t have black friends and white friend, but
rather friends who happen to be black or white.”

We write this as a possible paradigm for resolving misun-
derstandings and promoting authentic relationships between
people of different races, cultures, political ideologies, class-
es, etc. It is not the magic bullet to eliminate all societal ills,
but it is a movement towards progress. Better relationships
must start with individual initiative. There are impediments
to this, but we can overcome these. We can start by being
cognizant of our ethnocentrism. No one culture should be
the standard for all others. We must rid our minds of stereo-
types. Why do we stereotype anyway? Is it because we can
“understand” a person without having to sacrifice precious
time and effort to form a relationship?

We shouldn't have black friends
and white friends but rather
friends who happen to be black
or white.

Let us discipline ourselves to conquer social lethargy by
remembering the benefit these relations will produce—a
stronger, more unified microcosm of society. We can do this
in a number of ways: by taking the opportunity to hold real
conversations about divisive issues, dining together one-on-
one, by not taking offense at an opportunity to educate peo-
ple who do not readily understand our own perspectives and
by fostering the kind of respectful environment in which
these changes may take place.

It will take courage, but it is necessary. We cannot passive-
ly expect change. We must become it. Let us not be discour-
aged by uninspiring guilt, or by a lack of reciprocity toward
our reconciliatory efforts, persistent ignorance. Our precur-
sors have unjustly handed us a cracked and brittle society,
but we must hold it together. If it crumbles before us, it is our
fault.

Co-authored by Anthony Brown, president of Alpha Phi
Alpha Fraternity, Inc. and by Andrew Johnson, president of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Contact them at anbrown@david-
son.edu and anjohnson@davidson.edu.

Keep Confederate flag off school property

Recently there has been con-
troversy on campus concerning
-the display of the Confederate
flag by the Sigma Alpha Epsilon
fraternity. Let me just get my
personal bias out in the open:
I’m a proud Southerner, Pve
lived in North Carolina my
entire life, I hope I'll live here
for most of the rest of it and I
think the Confederate flag is a
disgusting symbol of hate.

Whether the members of SAE
intend for it to be viewed that
way or not—and, for what it’s
worth, I’m sure they don’t—the simple fact is that is how
many people perceive the flag.

Some argue that the flag simply represents the South’s
heritage. I don’t disagree that it represents a part of the
South’s history; I just think it’s a part of our history that we
shouldn’t necessarily be proud of, what with the enslaving of
an entire race of people and all.

But that’s beside the point. The debate over SAE’s dis-
playing of the Confederate flag should not be in any way
affected by my (or anyone else’s) personal opinion of the
flag itself. This debate is at root a free-speech issue, and if
the right to free speech is to be at all meaningful, it must
include the right to make statements or to display symbols
that others find disgusting and offensive.

It’s important to keep in mind, though, that the right to free
speech is not and never has been absolute and that Davidson
College does have some right to regulate what happens on its
property.

Remember, the Confederate flag in question was dis-
played not on the private property of students but in a house
that the College owns and permits school-sponsored organi-
Zations to use.

Clearly, Davidson can exercise some amount of discretion
to limit students’ ability to exercise their right of free expres-

Joe-mentum

sion while on College property and while participating in
College-sponsored activities and organizations.

While this discretion should, in my view, be used only in
extreme circumstances it is hard to deny that it does indeed
exist. If, for instance, one of the fraternities burned a cross in
front of its house, I doubt many people would object to the
College intervening to stop such a display (Disclaimer: No,
I don’t think any of the fraternities would do that; I’m just
using it as an example.)

The question then becomes: where exactly do we draw the
line between students’ right to free speech and Davidson’s
right not to allow school-sponsored organizations to express
ideas abhorrent to the values of the College? Specifically, is
displaying the Confederate flag a show of intolerance severe
enough that the College should prevent it from occurring on
school property?

In a word, yes. One of the things so many students love
about Davidson is its sense of community, and the
Confederate flag is an undeniably divisive and inflammato-
ry symbol. Furthermore, it became very clear at the recent
Fall Convocation that a major theme of Tom Ross’s presi-
dency will be diversity —a noble goal, and one that is hardly
served by allowing a College-sponsored organization to dis-
play on College property a symbol so understandably offen-
sive to many minorities.

In sum, if a student wants to wear a Confederate flag T-
shirt, put a bumper sticker featuring the flag on his or her car
or otherwise display the flag on his or her personal property,
he or she has every right to do so.

But the flag should never be displayed on College proper-
ty and certainly not by an organization that is sponsored by
(and thus in some way representative of) the school.
Davidson has always been a thoroughly Southern institution
-and it should be proud of that tradition-but it must avoid
even appearing to condone a symbol so offensive to so many
people.

Joe Reed ’08 is a political science major from Raleigh,
N.C. Contact him at joreed@davidson.edu.
