THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Field Hockey ends confer-
ence season with 1-6 loss

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

Last Friday, the field hockey team con-
cluded its conference schedule with a 6-1
loss against Pacific at a neutral site to finish
with a 3-3 conference record.

Kayli Maxwell ’08 scored an unassisted
goal in the 50th minute for the Wildcats,
pulling her squad to within three goals. The
Tigers, however, could not be denied.

The Tigers out shot the Wildcats 14-7,
including a 7-1 disparity in the first half.
Kedibone Leubane knocked in Pacific’s first
goal at the eight-minute mark. Scoring an
unassisted goal in the 24th minute and a
36th-minute goal off a rebound, Leubane led
the Pacific squad in goals with a hat trick.

Kim Kayawa, Ashley Niccum and Kate
McDonough each contributed one goal to
Pacific’s offensive onslaught. On the defen-
sive side, Valerie Niles made three saves for
Pacific.

Brittany Rollek ’09 and Mary Clay
"10 split time in goal, each giving up three
goals. Rollek made three saves while Clay
stopped four shots.

“We had a lot of breakdowns throughout
the field,” Maxwell said, “but I think we will
be able to work out all the problems and start
playing our game again this weekend.”

Looking ahead, the team’s confidence
remains high.

“We’re going to keep working hard and I
think we will be able to have a good shot at
the conference title,” Maxwell said.

The coming week features three games in
Hanover, New Hampshire. Davidson will

take on Dartmouth on Saturday, Maine on
Sunday, and New Hampshire on Tuesday.
The Wildcats hope to close with a winning
streak to give themselves momentum head-
ing into the NorPac tournament, which will
begin on Nov. | in Palo Alto, California.

Volleyball drops pair of
road matches, falls to 6-14

By KARL SCHMIDT
Guest Writer

Two visits to Guilford County proved
unsuccessful for the Davidson Volleyball
team this past weekend. The ’Cats struggled
against Elon last Saturday and UNC
Greensboro last Sunday, losing both matches
three games to none.

Against Elon, the team started strong with
a tight first game. The ’Cats trailed by only
one point late in the game, but were unable
to pull it out, losing 30-21.

The Phoenix built on the momentum from
the final points of the first game to take an
early 22-9 lead. Davidson fought back, but
again failed to win the game, 30-18. The
final game concluded the match as the first
game started it with Elon making scoring
runs late, putting the Cats away 30-22. Katie
Pierruci ’08 recorded 17 kills and 11 digs in
the match, posting her ninth double-double
of the year.

With both team entering the match on two-
game losing streaks, Davidson looked to
snap its streak and extend UNC
Greensboro’s. However, the Spartans took
the match in three straight games, 30-17, 30-
24, 30-16. Whereas in games one and three
UNC-G made strong mins to put down the

studied art historye

“ ret
aman: gé‘Gperations.

enable them to thrive here.

no other.

At McMaster-Carr, we welcome all academic backgrounds.
many of our successful managers were led by curiosity to study such non-
business fields as abstract math, biology, or political science. Others pursued
degrees in fields like accounting, computer science, or industrial engineering.
Regardless of their majors, their intelligence, creativity, and passion for details

In fact,

Our customers know us as a one-stop shop for industrial widgets of all
types and sizes. Our employees know us as a unique business run like
We develop our own catalog and engage in intensive market

research. We write our own software systems in-house. We run our operations
with passion and precision. We rely on our own expertise for continual process

improvement.

|
| Do you want to continue learning in a vibrant setting? Our management

development career path will give you the opportunity to learn all aspects of our

| unique business, from catalog development and market research to finance,
il software development, and product distribution. This cross-functional exposure

a leader in our organization.

exist at each of our locations:

Resume Submission Deadline:
Info Session: October 31, 2007
Campus Interviews: November 1, 2007

will allow you to build the knowledge and experience that is critical to becoming
We will be coming to campus to interview for this unique role. Opportunities

* Atlanta, GA °
« Chicago, IL

* Cleveland, OH

« Los Angeles, CA

* Princeton, NJ

McMASTER-CARR .

www.mcmaster.com/careers

October 17, 2007

*Cats, Davidson fought hard in game two,
taking a 24-23 lead before losing the game,
30-24. Sarabeth Peele ’10 lead Davidson
with 10 kills. The Spartans’ win drops
Davidson to 6-14 overall and 1-6 in the con-
ference.

Volleyball looks to end this streak on
Thursday at 5:30 against Appalachian State.
The match immediately precedes “A Night
with the ‘Cats.”

Men’s Soccer falls to
nationally-ranked squads

By SAM DIAMANT
Senior Staff Writer

Men’s soccer returned to Alumni Stadium
last week for a pair of matches against #25
South Carolina and #22 Furman. The team
also traveled to conference power UNC-G
on Tuesday. Unfortunately, the team lost all
three matches and now sits at 1-10 (0-3,
SoCon) on the season with seven games
remaining.

While the Wildcats continue to show
promise and play well sporadically, they
have struggled to be consistent.

Wednesday night against the talented
South Carolina Gamecocks, Coach Matt
Spear’s squad played some of the best soccer
of their season. Aaron West ’08 scored his
second goal on the year with a header off a
corner kick in the fifth minute. The team
maintained the one goal margin through
most of the game, but failed to tack on anoth-
er score despite a few promising chances
towards the end of the first half and early in
the second period.

Towards the end of the second half, South
Carolina battled back. The Gamecocks net-
ted the equalizer off a free kick with just over
10 minutes remaining. The game-winner
came in the 85th minute, when an open
Gamecock striker hit a hard shot from the
top of the box.

The Wildcats had a 12-7 shot advantage on
the night, and they controlled possession

reach. Kyle Redden completed the scoring

the fourth on their way to an easy 49- 21°

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson Gollege
J.D. UNC Law School

Best, Lawyers in America ‘84—'07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president
Former Judge NC Court of Appeals

Adjanct professor of trial advocacy
Duke Law School
UNC Lew School

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007

‘bright spots for a.’

‘on the’ afternoon. while Griswold adde

or another score to put the game out of: seven tackles and one sack

_ Morehead State outscored the ’Cats 18-0 in

“yp Nacksonville a and stands. at 1- Ti in the con:

Concentrating in Personal Injury
Other Areas of Practice

Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planning,
Litigation, Real Estate, Sociol Security Disability, Wills & Frasts

Gn
caittos,
aes 4
Law Firm
lu the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delbarg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699

(Next te the Brickhouse Tavern) H

pul

photo courte.
Sports Inform.

Aaron West 08 scored Davidson’s only
goal against South Carolina.

consistently throughout the game until they
lost control in the final minutes.

On Saturday, the ’Cats played tough
SoCon opponent Furman tight through the
first half, trailing 1-0 at the break. The
Paladins broke the game open in the second
half, though, tallying three goals between the
70th and 80th minutes. Davidson managed 6
shots on goal on the night, but they were
unable to convert on these opportunities; this
failure to finish has become a discouraging
theme of the season.

The team fell short again on Tuesday night
against the UNC-Greensboro Spartans. Tom
Lavan ’08 and Charlie Rieter *10 tallied
goals for the Wildcats, but a hat trick by the
Spartans’ Thomas Campbell helped push
UNC-Greensboro to-a 4-2 victory. The loss
was Davidson’s seventh in a row.

The team now hits the heart of its SoCon
chedule with a match at Georgia Southern
this week. Then, they play five consecutive
home matches—four against SoCon oppo-
nents (UNC Greensboro, Georgia Southem,
Appalachian State and Coastal Carolina) and
also a tough match-up against #4 Duke on
Oct. 31.

10 provided tw
Cats defense that surren

dered 426 yards, © 4,2
‘Astrop recorded eight tackles and a sac

Davidson will look-to rebound next-week
when they: travel.to Dayton for another’:

: important PFL contest. Dayton is coming —

off. an impressive 493 victory over.

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
JD. University of Richmond

Commissioner for the Town of Davidson

B3~'85; 88'~'97

Town of Davidsan Commercial and

North End Corridor Plan ‘OS

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.
