2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a  -

Surplus, from page I

come,” Marsicano explained.

After having put in the request for the
additional 300 meals, the College received
204 late RSVPs.

In addition to low student response, many
parents also neglected to RSVP.

Marsicano explains the final number of
uneaten meals as a result of several factors.

“Given the impact the rain had on atten-
dance and that a surprising number of people
who attended the inauguration left without
picking up a lunch, I figure we paid for up
to 300 lunches (counting vegan options) that
went uneaten by Davidson inauguration
guests,” Marsicano said.

Marsicano also estimated that around 200

NEws

baskets remained from the luncheon. The
College now plans to resell or reuse the bas-
kets for other College events.

As for the cost of Inauguration and Fall
Convocation, Marsicano could not provide
exact figures due to the fact that the bills are
still arriving. Marsicano did, however, say
that the event cost around $30 per head, a
figure that takes into account food, baskets,
setup, staffing and other expenditures.
Marsicano also said that the College tried to
save money by reusing centerpieces’ from
one dinner to the next.

Ross wanted to combine Inauguration and
Fall Convocation, which might have other-
wise been separate events, both to minimize
costs and to celebrate the College rather than
him.

White board, from page 1

topic, “How can Davidson best embrace the
GLBTQ community?”, one student wrote
“Davidson basketball is awesome!!!”

Just Peace feels that the erasing of such off
topic comments is necessary.

“We’re trying to foster intelligent and
meaningful discourse,” Goldberger said.” ilf
we were holding an open forum conversation
about a certain topic, and someone in the
audience made a comment that had nothing
to do with that topic, we, asthe moderators,
would move the discussion back to the cen-
tral point or idea. It’s the same thing with the
board —if something gets written that is real-
ly not adding to the conversation, we take it
off.”

Several students have questioned the heat-
ed, sometimes hostile, anonymous debate
that fills the board. For instance, a recent
response to the death penalty topic referred
to “frying” convicts, a response which dis-
a other writers.

é

Pl | ake

According to Student Government
Association (SGA) President Chris Burton
’08, the anonymity associated with the Free
Speech Board can make it “a conduit for
cowardice.”

“People can take license to say things that
they would never say if they were held
accountable for it,’ Burton © said.
“On the other side, I think it’s wonderful that
such a spectrum of opinions comes to the
light, and we truly see people’s opinions on a
variety of topics. The writing on the board, at
times deliberately provocative, allows us to
see the underbelly of Davidson’s sentiment.
This is the kind of dialogue that strengthens
our commerce of exchanged thought.”

“We all get so caught up in what we’re
doing here that we stop thinking about what
is going on elsewhere and how it affects us,i
Goldberger said. “Just Peace is hoping to get
people talking about, thinking about and ulti-
mately acting on those things that are so fre-
quently forgotten but which are definitely
important.”

10/29/07 6:16 p.m. Fire alarm
Patterson Court
An officer received a dispatched call from North Mecklenburg

Communications advising that Davidson Fire Department was on scene at 122
Patterson Ct. Cir. (BSC House) in reference to a fire alarm. On arrival, the reporting
officer was advised by the Davidson Fire Department that.a fog machine, being used
outside the front door for a haunted house, had activated the fire alarm. The alarm was
reset, and the house was advised not to use the fog machine anymore.

10/30/07
Row Dormitories

The Public Safety Office received a call via an officer’s cell phone from an RA who
told officers that he had received a complaint that the smell of marijuana was coming
from a dorm room. Upon arrival, the two reporting officers could smell an odor that
was believed to be marijuana. They knocked on the door: a student answered. When
officers explained the problem, the student immediately walked to his dresser and
removed from his top dresser drawer a blue glass pipe and a small pill bottle contain-
ing a small amount of marijuana. There was another student in the room, who, based
on the officer’s training and experience, was under the influence of some incapacitat-
ing substance. He displayed a lack of coordination and a glassy-eyed appearance with
no odor of alcohol present. When asked, the student admitted to smoking
marijuana. After a search of the room for additional contraband, a brown wooden con-
tainer used to store a small pipe, marijuana and a machined aluminum leaf dicer used
to grind marijuana were found. During the search of the room, 48 cans of Milwaukee’s
Best Light beer were also discovered.

11:23 p.m. Illicit substances

10/31/07
Row Dormitories

At the request of some students, two Public Safety officers conducted a community
meeting with RAs and students in connection with an illicit substance bust the night
before. The officers instructed 'the students about the use and smell of marijuana and.
what,to look for in an affected person. The officers went over the types of pipes and
bongs that can be used. The group was allowed to smell the pipes and see what the sub-
stance looks like, as well as how to recognize the signs that someone is using drugs,
like bloodshot eyes and the attempt to hide the smell with perfume or incense.

12:30 a.m. Drug training

10/31/07
Martin Court-F

The Public Safety Office received a phone call from a concerned student that three
suspicious males were in attendance at a party at Martin Court-F. The responding offi-
cer received the call in the parking lot and found three male subjects who were not
Davidson students. It was discovered that they were students from the NASCAR
Technical Institution in Mooresville and had walked down to Martin Court from their
residence on Beatty St. None of the subjects had identification on them, and the.officer
advised all three that they were on private property and had to leave immediately. The
three subjects left the area without incident.

11:20 p.m. Non-students at party

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 2007

Mason brings enthusiasm

By NINA MACE
Staff Writer

Dr. Sarah Mason, the newest member of
the Mathematics Department, brings to
Davidson a specialization in combinatorics,
a passion for students and a love of
triathlons.

The Georgia native was drawn to
Davidson because of its emphasis on both
teaching and research, as well as the caliber
of the students.

“Dr. Mason brings strengths in teaching
and research that have been well-recognized,
including three different teaching awards as
a graduate student and an NSF Postdoctoral
Fellowship,” Richard Neidinger, the
Mathematics Department chair, said.

Before coming to Davidson, Mason still
had three years left in her fellowship. When
she heard Davidson had a position open,
however, she applied.

“Davidson was the only place I applied,”
she said. “It’s my dream job.”

Mason said she enjoys being at Davidson.

“It’s very challenging and rewarding,” she
said. “It’s more than a job; I already feel it’s
home. I feel like I’ve been here a long time
even though it’s just been a few months.”

When Mason began her undergraduate
education at the University of Georgia, she
planned to major in English. She admits that
she still loves to read, but her educational
plans changed when she got a job tutoring
math because she had done well in her high
school math classes.

Mason then wanted to go into math educa-
tion, planning to teach high school, but she
enjoyed the upper-level math classes so
much that she decided to go to graduate
school for research in math. She received her
Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania in
2006.

“She is very interested in working with
students in her research and, in fact, is

already working with senior Katie Daves ’08

With the recent award of a grant, the

tudent loans with a combination, of grants;

tudents. to graduate debt-free, and foll

ou sansa

eir post-graduate dreams without worry

_ ewspapers. eee ee

BY MONICA JAMOUNEAU AND SUMMERLEE WALTER
y News Editor and Editor-in-Chief ;

ohn 8, and James L¢Knight Foundation is;
upporting Davidson’s initiative to replace

and foster. open exchange betwee mene:
ind. campus employment, The no-loan pol-.
ey: makes it: possible for underprivileged

g about the financial implications of their

Headquartered in 1 Miami, ‘Fla. The J John
; and James L Knight Foundation pro.”
motes. journalism. excellence worldwide
nd invests in the vitality of the communi-
:.ties where the Knight brothers owned

on a year-long project,” Neidinger said. “Her
expertise is in combinatorics, an area where
problems are accessible to undergraduates.”

In describing combinatorics, Mason said,
il look for patterns and different ways to
count phenomenoni

She has been able to continue her research
at Davidson, attending a workshop in
September as well as one in Tennessee last
weekend.

Dr. Sarah Mason, the new Math professor

Outside of teaching and research, Mason
is a triathlete. She trains year-round and
competes a few times every year. She says
that there is a great triathlon community in -
this area.

This semester, Mason is teaching Calculus
I and Discrete Methods, and she said that she
has been surprised by the interest her stu-
dents take in learning and understanding the
material, even if they are taking the class to
meet a requirement.

“I’m really impressed by the work ethic
and intellectual curiosity of the students,”
Mason said.

In the spring, Mason will teach
Multivariable Calculus and Finite Methods.

-commenc & soon”
Beginning Monday, Nov. 26, the College
ill host a series. of monthly student-facul-
‘ties dinners, designed to build community

“Sometime: there’s. a. perception among
tudents that faculty. don’ t understand. what

De the dinners ill include only sen-
Ors because, ‘according to Ross, , they are the
tudents - with. the most experience and are

“the most ’ ikely ‘to be comfortable: sharing
their honest opinions,”

@

Ross has reminded the- faculty that any
cademic. retaliation for remarks, that stu-

dents. mak “during, the dinners would. be

unethical.
«<The College hopes to 5 host four or five of
these dinners throughout the course of the

- year, The dinners will not have a pre-planned
“agenda. _

