THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

New professor brings Britian to NC

By READE JACOB
Staff Writer

This year’s newest addition to the English
faculty, Professor Maria Fackler, comes to
the Davidson campus from New Haven,
Connecticut, after a stint teaching at Yale
University while working toward her Ph.D,
which she will receive in Dec.

She hails from Surrey, England, but her
family relocated to Orlando, Florida when
she was 16.

“Tt was a bit of a culture shock, moving to
Florida. Everything was so different,”
Fackler said. “I was quiet at first in school,
but after a few weeks I was back to my chat-
ty self.”

Fackler developed a passion for British lit-
erature while at Duke University, where she
received her Bachelor’s degree in English
literature.

“My freshman year I took a course on
British Literature since 1945,” she said. “It
really resonated with me. The contemporary
works we read coincided with my experi-
ences in England.”

In the classroom, Fackler draws on her
British background to help students under-
stand the social climate surrounding the liter-
ature. She currently teaches a freshman W-
course entitled “Beyond Prince Charming”

and a seminar on “Twenty-First Century
British Fiction.”

“Beyond Prince Charming,” which she
describes as “not your mother’s literature
class,” takes an in-depth look into the histor-
ical and social contract of marriage and its
evolution into modern form.

Although the course focuses on strategies
and styles of writing, students in the class
can look forward to watching and analyzing
episodes of popular T.V. series such as “Sex
and the City.”

Fackler describes “Twenty-first Century
British Fiction” as a “dream class” in which
students analyze modem novels and decide
if they are suitable for critical study. Unlike
many English classes that focus on canon-
ized works, students in Fackler’s seminar
critique contemporary novels.

“Most of the novels have not been critical-
ly analyzed except for maybe a book
review,” Fackler said.

Although new to the area, the professor
has already immersed herself in the
Charlotte area, where many of her class-
mates from Duke University reside.

An avid theatre-goer, Fackler said she has
sampled the theater scene in Charlotte, and
she eagerly awaits student productions
around campus and the RSC residency at
Davidson.

Staley lecturer encourages
students to consider vocation

By SUMMERLEE WALTER
Editor-in-Chief

Encouraging students to clear out space in
their lives to consider vocation, community
and movement building, Executive Director
of the Presbyterian Peace Fellowship Rick
Ufford-Chase concluded his participation in
the Staley Distinguished Christian Lecture
Series on Monday with a lecture entitled
“Vocation in a Violent World: Lessons from
St. Francis of Assisi.”

“Tonight’s the hopeful part,” Ufford-
Chase assured his listeners, referring to the
previous night’s pointed “Following Jesus in
a Time of Fear: Lessons from Luke 6.”

With his experience working with
migrants on the US-Mexico border for two
decades and his two years as Moderator of
the Presbyterian Church USA, Ufford-Chase
spoke eloquently of the challenges facing
those who choose to dedicate their lives to
combating injustices through service.

Tackling vocation first, Ufford-Chase
encouraged his audience to find what pro-
vides them with spiritual nurture, emphasiz-
ing their conscious need to carve out space in
their lives for themselves.

“One thing I’ ve noted in my two days here
is that there are not many slackers among
you,” he joked.

Cupps, from page 1
ue to PPS: f all pindents for Cat Cupps
purchased this year and last year, while the
staff seeks new recyclable cup alternatives,
After hearing about the college’s plans,
Givens said, “I’d rather be safe than sorry.
There’s a reason that sticker is there despite
the FDA or North Carolina’s approval.”
Givens also expressed dissatisfaction with
how the bookstore handled the situation.

“No initiative was taken to alert
students to the problem, so it
leaves a bad taste in my mouth
concerning [the College
Bookstore ].”

--Jessica Givens ’10

“No initiative was taken to alert students
to the problem,” she said, “so it leaves a bad
taste in my mouth concerning [the College
Bookstore].”

He also described the need to “hallow our
life support systems” in order to align how
one lives with one’s faith or conscience.

He explained that in each year of their
marriage he and his wife choose one aspect
of their lives that they want to change and
then spend the year forming new habits.

“We’ve overdeveloped the idea of
making a living out of helping peo-
ple.”
--Rick Ufford-Chase,
Staley lecturer

The year before their son was born, they
threw away their television, and, in later
years, they focused on buying clothing not
manufactured in sweatshops and on eating
food grown locally through sustainable
means. Most recently, they purchased a van
that runs on used french fry oil.

Transitioning to community, Ufford-Chase
explained that we cannot live as people of
authentic faith or good conscience outside of
a community of people who challenge, sup-
port and hold each other accountable.

See Staley, page 4

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26 2007 ~3

Real Talk Project to discuss
contentious issues on campus

By Curis BURTON AND DAVIS GREENE
President and Vice-President of SGA

Too often, the Davidson community does not discuss major issues. Only at certain times,
often among friends, do subjects of a contentious nature arise. While important to fostering
community, these conversations remain lost in late-night dorm room discussions.

As the editors of The Davidsonian expressed in their editorial several weeks ago, too many
in the student body have important opinions but fear expressing them to the greater commu-
nity.

In the last few weeks, however, President Tom Ross has offered us the counter-example.
While potentially divisive, Tom Ross presented students with the issue of the Confederate
flag on campus. On the whole, the student body has risen to the occasion, entering into a civil
dialogue.

The Student Government Association hopes that we can continue this example by dis-
cussing the concerns we have about Davidson with a genuine concern desire to foster posi-
tive change.

With this in mind, we would like to introduce the Real Talk Project:

Mission Statement: “It is our belief that diversity in ideas and the organic thoughts that
manifest through the convergence of dissimilar perspectives optimally bring on-campus
issues to the forefront. The Real Talk Project should foster a community-wide conversation
and galvanize grassroots initiatives within the SGA. Collaborating with leaders and organi-
zations representing a variety of perspectives will refine our convictions and sharpen our
aims.”

In Practice: Over the next few weeks, students should consider which issues they feel are
most immediate. In the form of a ballot, students will then check one of the following eight

Alcohol Policy (Patterns of Consumption, Sub-Free Housing...)
Diversity / Plurality (Race, Ethnicity, Gender, Sexual Orientation...)
Environmental Policy (Recycling, Use of Water/Electricity/Paper...)
Honor Code (Code of Responsibility, Community Bikes...)
Mental Ilness (Stress, Depression, Eating Disorders...)

Sexual Misconduct Policy (Gender Relations, Dating Scene...)

Town Development (Light Rail, Griffith Street...)

Other (Campus Security...)

We encourage students to think critically about each of these issues and determine which
most needs attention on campus.

SGA will encourage multiple forms of conversation over a month long period (or perhaps
shorter or longer as the campus pulse necessitates) around the one issue which receives the
most concern . Of course, none of these issues can be solved simply through focused efforts
in one month. However, the Real Talk Project should foster dialogue that energizes students.
After discussing the given issue, we plan to turn our attention to the next area of concern,
thereby engaging in dialogue about several of these topics.

Questions?

With the hope of allowing the SGA to truly reflect student concerns, we intend to hold our
weekly meetings in the Union atrium once a month. These meetings will highlight the par-
ticular issue being addressed via the Real Talk Project. However, this Thursday the 27th at
8:30 pm, the SGA will meet in the atrium to discuss the details of the Project.. We would love
to hear any concerns or creative ways of enhancing the Real Talk Project that students might
have.

