hs

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 10, 2007 10

2007 Men’s Basketball: The culmination of a 100-year story

By WILL BRYAN.
Sports Editor

As a sports writer, I] have to find and write stories every week. It is a task that I mostly love and
always find challenging. I have found that good stories can come in all shapes and forms, but the
great ones can sometimes be hard to find until they land in your lap.

I have spent the last four years covering Davidson basketball and writing stories about winning
streaks, the sons of NBA greats, coaching philosophies and the Davidson fan experience. I have
had the privilege of watching the Wildcats win conference titles on national television, interview-
ing the players and coaches in press conferences and seeing how Davidson men’s basketball has
become a national story.

But this column isn’t supposed to be about my story. It’s supposed to be about you. What role
does Davidson basketball play in your college story? Did you sing and help make “Sweet
Caroline” the college anthem last year? Where were you when Davidson demolished Big 12
power Missouri in Belk Arena?

Many in the national basketball media are pointing to Davidson as having the potential to be
this year’s best college basketball story. They look at our academic values, on-the-court accom-
plishments and small size and label Davidson men’s basketball as a great success story. They will
use mediums like Sports Illustrated and ESPN.com to spread their interpretations of Davidson’s
story to the rest of the nation.

Davidson’s players will play their own role in this story. Preseason expectations are high, and
the players have to make their paper attributes take life on the basketball court. This story could
feel very different if the Wildcats struggle in out-of-conference games and get upset in the
Southern Conference tournament in March. It could also exceed our wildest dreams if Davidson
lands a high seed in the NCAA Tournament and knocks off a team from a power conference.

But again, this story still reside with you. You don’t have to wait on us media types to give
expression to the plots taking place on the court and in the stands. Add your own layers to this
larger narrative. Take a road trip with your friends to a road game when you have a huge test the
next day. It really is true that you will remember the experience more than the material from your
test. Hold a listening party in your room and take in the eccentricities of Davidson’s venerable
radio announcer John Kilgo. Show up early to games...be that fanatic.

But like all good stories, the story of the 2007-2008 men’s basketball season is not complete

without a little back-
ground exposition. This
year marks the 100th
anniversary of
Davidson _ basketball,
and the athletic depart-
ment plans to hold a
reunion event to wel-
come back some from
the legends of the pro-
gram’s storied history.
With the presence of
players like Stephen
Curry and Jason
Richards and a commu-
nity’s aspirations for
NCAA _ Tournament
glory, it seems like a
great year to do some
reflecting on how Davidson basketball became such a big deal.

Names like Snyder, Hetzel, Gerdy, Cobb and Rucker might look familiar to frequent visitors of
Belk Arena. Those are the names on the retired jerseys hanging from the rafters. But most of us
look at those dates under the names and realize that we don’t know the first thing about Davidson
basketball in the 1940’s or 1960’s or even 1980’s and 1990’s.

Ihave decided to devote the next four issues of The Davidsonian sports section, leading up to
the D-I opener against North Carolina, to enriching our collective understanding of the story of
Davidson basketball. From the days of intramural competition through the glory years of nation-
al prominence and the subsequent years of relative insignificance, Davidson basketball has come
a long way.

I urge you to expose yourself to a brief piece of our rich history by engaging the larger story of
Davidson basketball. But don’t forget to take the opportunity to write your own story this year.
There’s a chance that it could just as glorious as we all imagine.

The athletic department expects Belk Arena to sell out for most
home games.

Flickerball: A Davidson tradition unlike any other

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

Each autumn Sunday, most people in the Charlotte area think about church and football, often-
times with more enthusiasm for the latter. In Davidson, however, football games on Saturday and
Panthers’ games on Sunday just don’t cut it. What sport has dominated the hearts of Davidsonians
for over 50 years, filling the weekend void? The answer is flickerball.

According to the Davidson College Factfile, 503 flickerball players hit the IMAC fields in
2006; 362 of these were first-year students. As this enormous participation rate indicates, flicker-
ball has become a Davidson institution. In other words, those who know Davidson know flicker-
ball. Even so, examining the sport might educate more than a few curious guests to our fair cam-
pus and perhaps teach the natives something new.

First of all, despite what tour guides might regurgitate, other schools also play flickerball.

“You mean the tours don’t always tell you the truth?!” Don’t worry, I was shocked too.

A quick Google search will bring up articles about high school flickerball and college flicker-
ball at schools like FSU. However, the versions described on these websites strike a retired, con-
servative baller like me as very unfamiliar, very foreign and very scary.

Some people also know our sport as “razzle-dazzle” or “Carolina Rules flag football,” raising
questions of the sport’s origin. Regardless, I firmly believe that we flick the right way at
Davidson.

Flickerball as we know and love it started with the men of Patterson Court. What weekend
activity doesn’t? The Davidson Encyclopedia, a project pioneered by English students in 2003 to
collect entries about the peculiar workings of Davidson, traces flickerball’s origin to 1951 using
The Davidsonian’s archives. In that fateful year, when college president John Cunningham and
college physician James Woods (not of Rhode Island fame) banned touch-football from the fra-
ternity scene due to escalating injuries, a new game “combining football with basketball rules”
emerged.

Cunningham’s strategy worked. As the picture from the Davidson Encyclopedia (a picture that
capturing the leaping ability and tight shorts of flickerballers from years ago) suggests the fero-
cious play of the touch-football past was no more; in its place emerged something ... complete-
ly different. The term “flickerball” gained currency by 1954. Like so many ancient practices at
Davidson, the tradition remains with us today.

As in years past, some teams this season separated from the pack early. Powerhouse regular
season teams for the freshmen men this year include the combined Little Halls and Second Belk.

On the first-year women’s side 4th Watts and Base
Belk both boast undefeated records. With the regular
season behind them, however, each team gains a new
lease on life in the playoffs. Like most other sports,
anything can happen in flickerball.

Stephen Pierce ’10, known around campus as the
student who wears his freshman nametag everyday, is
one of many upperclassmen who keep the flickerball
flame burning beyond their freshman year. Pierce
coaches the undefeated 4th Watts Women’s team
while playing on a frequently defeated Open League
Team; the Men’s Open League has been dominated
by the varsity baseball team since the Clinton years
and show no signs of fading.

Pierce sees the freshman experience as a main rea-
son for flickerball’s appeal.

“T think part of (the appeal) has to do with how we
come in as freshmen. Our hall counselors tell us how
great it is and ever since we visited Davidson, the tour
guides tell us about how flickerball is a sport that is only played here at Davidson. It adds to the
mystique of it I guess.”

“Coaching has definitely changed the way I look at playing,” he said. “Playing, the game flies.
However, coaching, you get to see the game almost in slow motion. Everything is visible and
you can tell what is working and what isn’t...The bad part about coaching is that when you have
an idea that will definitely screw up the defense or a plan to stop the offense, it’s hard to get your
players to do exactly what you have in mind. A lot of the times you just want to go out there and
do it yourself.”

Another freshman coach, who preferred to remain anonymous, expressed similar frustrations:
“Tt’s hard to coach a team that can’t run.”

While passions run high as postseason play begins, we still should remember that while flicker-
ball creates intense rivalry, it primarily builds community.

By the time the trophies are raised at the end of the year, first-year students, whether they
played on winning or losing teams, officially join the ranks of seasoned flickerball veterans that
have come before them.

_ y photo
Flickerball came to Davidson in 1951
and most freshmen still play today.

Wildcat

A Night With The Cats presented by ESPNU

x

Thursday, 7:30 p.m., immediately following the volleyball game

Volleyball (6-14)

3-0 loss against Elon
3-0 loss against UNC-Greensboro

Football (3-2)

49-21 loss against Morehead State

Women’s Soccer (8-3)

1-0 win against Furman
4-0 win against Francis Mason

Men’s Soccer (1-10)

Field Hockey (7-5)

2-1 loss against South Carolina
5-1 loss against Furman

6-1 loss against Pacific

Next up: 4-2 loss at UNC-Greensboro
Next up: 10/13 vs. Dayton Next up: Next up:
10/11 vs. Appalachian State 10/20 vs. Drake 10/12 at Wofford Next up: 10/13 vs. Dartmouth
10/14 at Georgia Southern 10/14 vs. UNC-Greensboro 10/13 at Georgia Southern 10/14 vs. Maine
; 10/16 vs. New Hampshire
Notes: Notes: Notes:

Notes:

The volleyball team will kick off the upcom-

ing night with the ’Cats against Appalachian

State at home. The team looks to improve its

1-6 conference mark and break a three game’
losing streak.

Ryan Alexander ’08 moved into second
place on Davidson’s all-time passing list by
completing 22 of 44 passes for 276 yards in

the loss to Morehead State on Saturday.

The soccer team’s seven straight wins
form the longest winning streak for the
Wildcats since 2005.

Notes:

Davidson has not won consecutive games

in over 12 calendar months. Forward Kayli Maxwell ’08 added to her team
leading goal total of 11 in the loss against

Pacific.
