6

By AUDREY
Staff Writer

I walked into Warner Hall, sincerely
intrigued by the whole of buying a date to the
Red & Black AIDS Ball. Soon after the bid-
ding began, it dawned on me that there are
many crazy, deep-pocketed women at
Davidson. I had basically walked into a male
strip joint on Women’s Night Out.

I give Warner Hall credit for providing us
some steamy visual satisfaction and a great
inventory of the men on campus. There were
many times that I needed to avert my eyes,
because, quite frankly, I hadn’t had enough
to drink. Many of the other women were
fully inebriated and ready to bid. There were
the girlfriends who bought their boyfriends,
the blackout guy who enjoyed raising the
bids, and then the few, but proud, classy guys
who kept their clothes on. I have to admit I
left the auction quite happy.

As a logical next step, I went to see two of
my favorite and most reliable guys: Ben &
Jerry. They are the only men who have made
me moan and groan with pleasure in quite
some time. I do not support emotional eat-
ing, but it was either that or sitting in my bed
lamenting over “The Notebook.”
Sometimes, craving a boyfriend, or wishing
you had bid on that guy, can temporarily be
solved had sex and/or chocolate.

I once believed that there was no dating
culture on campus, but, in the midst of writ-
ing the Ask Audrey column, I am learning a
lot about crushes and dating on campus.

‘Learning from many of my experienees, I
have adopted many of the ideals established
in the #1 New York Times Bestseller, “He's
Just Not That Into You.” Yes, I am specifical-

Funky buys meet foreign films at Charlotte’

By Katie HUNTER
Staff Writer

Unimpressed by the current slew of mega-
buck blockbusters? Consider delving into the
comparatively gritty, artsy world of
microcinema, where digital shots and unfa-
miliar actors rule the screen.

Film fans and those in search of a novel
date night can now go to Charlotte for a taste
of this “underground” cinema. Every
Saturday at 8 pm, the Patchwerk Playhaus, a
vintage clothing store on East !0th Street,
features a different movie. The store has set
up a large projector screen along with sever-
al comfy couches and armchairs in a back
room, which can accommodate an audience
that usually ranges between 30 and 60 peo-
ple.

The screenings are the brainchild of local
social worker and film enthusiast Ross
Wilbanks. Two years ago, Wilbanks bought a
digital projector with some extra cash and
began showing films at people's houses.

“I moved to a coffee house, and eventual-
ly was offered to show films at the

ou don’ t have to be dating to have a 1 good time.

ly speaking from a woman's point of view,
but men, if you have questions, I am more
than willing to give them my best shot. The
book gives many examples of desperate,
confused women yeaming for a relationship
so desperately that they continue to indulge
in men that really are not giving them the
interest or time that those women truly
deserve. The book offers a lot of bittersweet
advice and holds women on a pedestal while
slamming their male suitors. I have faith that
better men exist, but some women have a
hard time realizing that, which is why they
stick to a relationship that is just okay. Even
though this book has many “real life” exam-
ples, it still applies to the desperate desire
that the single, non-dating crowd might have
for relationships.

Lately, I think the only people who deny
the existence of a dating culture are the peo-
ple not dating.

For those lucky enough to be in a relation-

ship or dating, embrace the holiday season
and all the love that warms, comforts and
soothes your souls. Buy creative gifts for
each other (check out Priscilla’s on Exit 28
for an adventure!), go out on actual dates and
get off campus!

Even if your girlfriend lives a floor below
you, she still would love a date off campus.
If you're averse to travel, explore all the
places on campus where you could possibly
indulge in a little holiday fun (1 will leave
that to your imaginations).

Also, please be considerate of the singles
on campus because sometimes they really
don’t want to see you holding hands and
practically skipping on your way to the
frozen yogurt machine in Commons.

Now for the singles. If you want some
uplifting horoscopes for December, check
out “Glamour Magazine.” 1 wonder if the
Pisces horoscope is true: “Not many people
can score some smokin’ new job and a

es

Vampires and ghouls are a fun and gory sight at microcinema establishments. -

Arthouse,” says Wilbanks. The NoDa district
venue worked for a while, but Wilbanks
decided to switch to Patchwerk Playhaus
after attending several jazz shows there and
realizing “what a great space for movies it

A recent children’s film, “The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T.

would be.” Wilbanks and the owners of the
Playhaus held a few special screenings, after
which they decided to make it a weekly rou-
tine.

Wilbanks cites his “dissatisfaction with
the films shown in art house theatres” as the
primary driver of his cinematic endeavor.

“These films were either foreign films
with a lot of countryside calendar art or
Hollywood dreck disguised as independent
films,” he says.

“There was also very little repertory films
being shown, and no outlet for film-makers
to show films outside the film festival sys-
tem.”

Wilbanks has a few criteria for the films he
chooses. He looks for originality, or “how
fresh the idea” of the film is to viewers. He
also considers its social value, or the extent
to which a film shows aspects of another
country or region that fall “outside the U.S.
media glut of images.” He pays attention to

wIVIN

blue: Can? t buy me love

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Dec 5, 2007

wa -

boyfriend over the holidays, but you’re the
exception.” Hmmm.

Also, please embrace your single life. A
wonderful friend pointed out that being a
single college student is a period in our lives
during which we can dedicate so much time
to our being and our friends. You don't have
to worry about what your significant other
wants to do on a Friday night.

I support the single culture in loving their
lives right now, but try hard not to watch
“Love Actually” five times over the holiday
season. Have dressing up for and flirting at
all the festive parties and traveling adven-
tures!

If any of you lovelorn or loved want to dis-
cuss beginning a Davidson eharmony.com,
shoot me an email. I'm open to questions at
AskAudrey33@ gmail.com.

Mike Schmitt ‘11 and Daisy Kartson ‘11

S microcinema

the director as well, who he considers to be
“the driving force” of a film. One recent
screening was of “Itiraf,” a drama by Turkish
director Zeki Demirkubuz that translates into
English as “The Confessions.” The plot cen-
ters on a wrenching breakdown of a relation-
ship that follows a man’s discovery that his
girlfriend has cheated on him. The lovers
eventually reconcile after a protracted sepa-
ration.

Another recent week’s showing featured
“Faust,” a film by F.W. Murnau that uses “
barrage of apocryphal and visceral images”
to put a spin on the traditional tale of an
alchemist who makes a deal with the devil.
The wide array of films naturally lends itself
to a diverse audience, which includes college
students as often as retirees.

According to Wilbanks, most people in the
crowd come just to see something “differ-
ent” that is usually unavailable in rental
chains or major theatres.

“There are actually very few cinephiles in
attendance,” Wilbanks claims, indicating the
accessibility of the films to any open-minded
viewer.

The films usually run between an hour and
a half to two hours. They are preceded by a
variety reel of film shorts that starts at 7:30
p.m.

There is no charge for admission, but
donations of any denomination are accepted
and welcome. Wilbanks has also catalogued
all previously shown films and made them
available for rental.

Wilbanks hopes to extend viewings to
Wednesday nights in the future, but for now
he is happy with Saturday nights at the
Playhaus. He also extends an open invitation
to all filmmakers looking to show their work.
Check out his website at www.patchwerk-
playhaus.blogspot.com for more microcine-
ma information.

