a

THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

The Wildcat Pulse

Women’s soccer
drops two games

By ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Last weekend, the soccer team traveled
west to face off against two foes, playing Air
Force on Friday and Colorado College on
Sunday.

Friday’s game against Air Force was all
defense. In the first half, neither Davidson
nor Air Force could spark their offenses; the
match went scoreless for the first 80 min-
utes. The Wildcats did have four corner-kick
opportunities in the first half and one in the
second, one more than their opponents in
regulation. In the 80th minute of the match,
Falcon Ashley Collins recovered a deflection
from 15 yards out and inched the ball past
Davidson goalie Bevin English ’08. Despite
the team’s heart, the Wildcats could not
respond to Collins’ late goal. The 0-1 loss
put them at 1-2 on the season.

Before returning to Davidson, the
Wildcats played another match against
Colorado College. The game was scoreless
until late in the first half when Colorado
College Tiger Emily Beans performed a
well-executed fake pass to drive through the
Davidson defense and drive the ball past
English.

Later, Colorado College’s Tiffany Brown
scored on a penalty kick that Beans induced
by drawing a foul in the box. The second
goal at the 76-minute mark again proved too

_ much for Davidson to overcome, and the

they fell to the Tigers 0-2.

Peace Corps.

Life is calling.
‘ How far will you go?

800.424.8580
www.peacecorps.gov

Despite the loss, English totaled a game
high six saves to put her at 29 for the season;
she now ranks fifth all-time in school histo-
ry. The Wildcats’ record is now 1-3-0. The
Cats will have seven days off before they
face Mercer at Alumni Stadium on Sept. 16.

Field Hockey faces
mixed results

By Ray FRANCIS
Staff Writer

The field hockey team suffered last Friday,
dropping an 8-1 decision to the Stanford
Cardinal in Farmville, Virginia.

Kayli Maxwell ’08 recorded the only goal
for the Wildcats, making the score 2-1 in
Stanford’s favor. However, the Cardinal, led
by Rachel Mozenter’s hat trick, finished the
game with six unanswered goals to hand
Davidson its first NorPac loss of the season.

Stanford out-shot Davidson 25-6 and held
a 12-5 advantage in penalty corners.

However, the Wildcats bounced back the
next day, claiming a 4-1 victory over the host
team, Longwood.

Maxwell added two more goals to her sea-
son total while goalie Christa Goeke °10
made 12 saves to key the Wildcat effort.

Maxwell scored the first goal off a penalty
stroke in the 20th minute. Eleanor Cowley
“08 scored the team’s second goal off an
assist from Lisa Landoe “10 in the 24th
minute and Britti Himelfarb “09 sent the
Wildcats into the locker room with a 3-goal
lead by scoring on a Maxwell assist.

rength that comes from enoert trai
er 150 different career fields— as yell
* g

Maxwell scored her second goal of the
game with 15 minutes to go before Lauren
Sullivan scored, allowing the winless
Lancers to avoid being shutout.

Davidson was out-shot 19-17 but held a 5-
3 edge in penalty corners.

With the weekend’s results, the Wildcats
record moved to 3-1 (1-1 NorPac). Davidson
will host California on Thursday and
Longwood on Sunday.

Football loses heart-
breaker 33-30

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Staff Writer

Davidson overcame a 10-point halftime
deficit and was four minutes away from
securing its second win of the season when
Wingate quarterback JD Moore connected
with wide receiver Gary Tatum on a 41-yard
touchdown pass. The late score was the dif-
ference as the ’Cats fell 33-30 on Saturday
afternoon.

Wingate seized the lead on the game’s
opening drive with a two-yard touchdown
dash by Nelson Woods that capped an 8-play,
48 yard drive. The ’Cats remained scoreless
until Cody Elder ’08 converted a 30-yard
field goal early in the second quarter to cut
the lead to 7-3. The Bulldogs responded with
a score of their own on the ensuing posses-
sion and the Wildcats trailed 13-3 after a
missed extra point.

Davidson’s offense struggled to score in
the first half, but Elder made good on his
second field goal of the game, this one a 27-
yarder that brought the visiting "Cats within
a touchdown at 13-6. The Bulldogs extend-
ed their lead to 10 just before the half on
Jonathon Beford’s 33-yard field goal.

After rushing for 197 yards in their sea-
son-opening victory over UNC-Pembroke
last weekend, the Wildcats failed to establish
the running game. Wingate’s defense limited
Davidson to just 37 yards on 28 carries, but
the ’Cats did find success through the air,
especially in the second half.

Senior Quarter Matt McGreevy ’08, mak-
ing his first career start in place of the injured
Ryan Alexander, led the Davidson offense on
an seven-play, 80-yard drive that he punctu-
ated with a 17-yard touchdown strike to
Andrew Aldrich ’10.

The Bulldogs pushed the score to 23-13 on
their next possession when Moore hooked up
with Tatum for their first TD connection of

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 12, 2007 il

ee a
the game.

Wingate held the momentum in the game
until late in the 3rd quarter, but control shift-
ed when Matt Easton *09 intercepted
Moore’s pass and darted 25 yards the other
way for the ’Cats first defensive touchdown.
Easton was named Defensive Player of the
Week in the PFL with a forced fumble and a
sack to compliment his interception. His
score, along with Elder’s PAT, pulled
Davidson to within a field goal heading into
the fourth quarter.

With just under eight minutes to go, the
*Cats had a chance to all but secure the vic-
tory, facing a first and goal situation inside
the Wingate 10-yard line, but they were
unable to find the end zone. Barnes was
stuffed for a one-yard gain on first down and
two McGreevy incompletions followed,
forcing Coach Merritt to send the field goal
unit onto the field for fourth down. Elder
converted his third field goal of the game to
put the Wildcats in front 30-26.

The Wildcats’ inability to hit pay dirt in
the red zone opened the door for their oppo-
nent. Wingate recaptured the lead on its next
possession when Moore hooked up with
Tatum for the second time on the afternoon.

The 41-yard long ball with 4:18 remaining
in regulation was the final score of the game.
The ’Cats had one last chance, but the drive
stalled, and they were forced to punt the ball
back to the Bulldogs. The Wildcats were
then unable to slow down Wingate as Woods
ran the ball six times for 26 yards on the
game’s final series to seal the victory. '

Despite the loss, McGreevy turned in a
solid performance connecting on 23 of 37
passes for 257 yards and two touchdowns.
Linebacker Peter Bakke 09 anchored the
defense and accounted for 6.5 tackles and
recorded 1.5 sacks.

“To beat good teams like Wingate, we
have to be able to put the nail in the coffin
late in the game once we are ahead,”
McGreevy said. ““We will need to run the ball
more effectively and have more productivity
in the red zone to win next week.”

The defeat dropped Davidson to 1-1, while
Wingate improved to 3-0 on the season. The
’Cats will look to redeem themselves this
week when they host Lenior-Rhyne on
Homecoming Weekend Saturday at 1 p.m. at
Richardson Stadium.

Lenoir-Rhyne is coming off a 48-7 loss to
Appalachian State, who captured the
nation’s hearts with their thrilling 34-32 at
Michigan in its season opener.

Basketball excitement begins in September

By WILL BRYAN
Sports Editor

Three years ago, in the fall of 2004, the
Davidson athletic department released stu-
dent tickets for the men’s basketball home
game against Duke in Charlotte Coliseum.

The night before the release, there was a
smattering of tents and students sitting in
folding chairs quietly doing homework and
playing acoustic guitar. The next moming
found a line that reached to Baker Drive for
the 8 a.m. ticket release.

Three postseason appearances, two con-
ference championships and one Mid-Major
Freshman of the Year later, McKillopville
appeared.

This season, Davidson will host national
powers Duke and North Carolina in
Charlotte’s Bobcats Arena. Many national
media voices have said that the Wildcats
have a chance to knock off one or both of the
ACC juggernauts.

By 7 p.m. on Tuesday night, students were
already erecting tents and collecting their
friend’s CatCards. By midnight, the Baker
plaza was a veritable madhouse.

“I have been looking forward to this night
for weeks,” Danny Goldstein ’11 said. “I
have three basketball players on my hall, and
I just know that we’re going to beat Duke
and North Carolina this year.”

Goldstein promises that he and his friends

will be decked out in full body paint and
have elaborate signs for the ESPN cameras.

Right behind Goldstein’s group was a col-
lection of senior students whose enthusiasm
was a bit more tempered, though radical
nonetheless.

“J am really excited about this season,”
Ben Young ’08 said. “My class has seen
some great basketball in our years here.
We’re definitely hoping that this year is one
of the best so far.”

The overwhelming amount of energy and
dedication displayed by the scores of stu-
dents erecting tents all over the Baker plaza
should come as no surprise after the per-
formance of last year’s NCAA Tournament
team.

Last year, Davidson set new attendance
marks in home games against Charlotte and
Appalachian State. Oftentimes, students
arriving late were forced to sit near the Belk
Arena rafters as many students had picked
up tickets earlier in the week.

“We definitely want to encourage student
involvement with our basketball team this
year,” Director of Marketing Martin
McCann said. “We have worked out a very
good deal with the Bobcats Arena in terms of
getting students the best seats in the house.”

As the first tickets reached the hands of
students in the early morning on Wednesday,
the 2007-2008 season officially got under-
way. It will be one to remember.
