THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,

IVING

6

Thrift stores can be funky fun

By CAROLINE Woop
Staff Writer

After weeks of seeing the same gray
sweater in every magazine and following
one of my friends on multiple J. Crew visits,
I began to hearken to the call of the second-
hand store, where the unique, well-loved and
sometimes bizarre little sisters of the cloth-
ing world gather to try their luck with a sec-
ond generation of shoppers.

All consignment shops seem to have a few
traits in common: poor lighting, a cramped
layout, heavily-botoxed proprietors and an
unidentifiable, | basement-like smell.
However, each caters to its own audience of
fashionistas, whether it be old ladies search-
ing for the styles of decades past or hip
youngsters ready for a new addition to the
indie museum that is their wardrobe. I
thought r d sample a few of Charlotte’s more

reputable establishments.

Sweet Repeats Consignment, located at
300 East Blvd. Ste 2, claims to be “an
upscale consignment boutique.” The owners
certainly believe it; their clothing, shoes and
accessories -- designer and otherwise -- sell
for prices barely reduced from their original
1994 value.

The four-dollar rack did offer some finan-
cial relief, but the discounted selections were
far less classy than their more highly priced
counterparts.

The perfectly organized racks contain
more than a few unique, stylish finds, if you
could find them wedged between the purple
lace blouses and pink and orange stiletto
boots.

Perusing the flamboyant, festive display
was a fun trip back in time, but when my
comrades convinced me to try on a periwin-
kle leopard print coat, I knew I had gone too

“Courtesy Photo

Hong Kong Vintage reflects on the past with the funky clothing your parents wore.

far.

Since I was already at Sweet Repeats, I
couldn’t resist visiting Very Terry
Consignments, practically next door, at Ste
4.

Populated mostly with. embroidered
sweaters and chartreuse blouses, and illumi-
nated by a lone pink neon squiggle on the
wall, Very Terry feels like your Aunt Deb’s
storage unit, although perhaps a bit dustier.
Keep the store in mind if you’re the type to
dress up for Halloween.

A ten-minute drive from East Blvd, Hong

Kong Vintage (1005 Central Ave) draws you
a little further back in time, to the 60’s and
70’s, when the patterned frocks and caramel
jackets lining the walls were in vogue.

This shop was slightly funkier and much
better priced than my first two forays.

Hong Kong offers men’s vintage clothing
(which most consignment shops do not) as
well as off-beat t-shirts, pumps in every
imaginable color and a large case of costume
jewelry. Do check out their extensive collec-
tion of boots.

If you still have a desire to dress outside
the box, there are a multitude of other
options; try Classic Attic Consignments
(4301 Park Rd), A Closet Full (1729 Garden
Terrace), or South End Exchange (1616
Camden Rd). ,

Even at the best secondhand shops, you’ ll
get to thumb through fashions you never
knew existed, and you may suffer from a
life-threatening bout of the cringes.

Despite some shocking styles, the wonder-
ful thing is that you can never know what
will be there one day, so for the mali-weary,
these chintzy surprises may just be worth the
risk

Students pioneer eco- friendly housing

By SAMANTHA TALLEY
Staff Writer

“Anyone want bagels?”

Lindsay Brownell, ’10, pulls several sacks
out of her bag and hoists them onto her desk.
“¥’m in Eco-op, and someone just donated a
bunch of bagels to us. We can’t eat them all,
so we’re handing them out,” she explains to
her religion class.

Bleary-eyed students smile as they munch
their surprise breakfasts and, for a moment,
push Heim and his theory of mimetic transi-
tion.to the back of their minds.

The Monday morning surprise would not
have been possible last May before the
Ecological Cooperative (Eco-op) became a
living option for the first time this year.

Housed in the former Dean Rusk Office at
439 N. Main Street, Eco-op gives ten stu-
dents a chance to live lead environmentally
conscious lives while closely working with
their faculty advisors, Professor of English
Dr. Annie Ingram and Professor of Biology
Dr. Chris Paradise.

“As faculty advisor to the Environmental
Action Coalition, I had conversations with
the Eco-op proposers early on as we talked
about their vision and who to contact about
pursuing this idea,” Paradise said.

“TI love working with the students, espe-
cially on a project like this where they are so
committed to making a difference and are
also thinking big — they’re not afraid to chal-
lenge the status quo.”

Ingram had a similar experience: “T start-
ed working with the Eco-op proposers in the
fall semester of 2006. I had lived in a co-op
when I was in college and was thrilled when
this group of students wanted to pursue the
possibility of having one at Davidson.”

House meetings are held every Monday
afternoon, she explained, and she helps the

Katie Epstein ‘10 and Lindsay Brownell enjoy the comfort of a green living style.

students with “everything from house logis-
tics (finances, food ordering, etc.) to pro-
gramming to principles of cooperative and
sustainable living.”

Ingram added that “the Eco-op residents
are incredibly capable in all areas, so mostly
I’m around to listen and guide them when
necessary.”

All the more amazing when you consider
how many responsibilities these 10 students
have taken on.

“It’s more family-style here,”
commented.

“We have house meetings every Monday
and house dinners every Tuesday and
Thursday. I feel like we’re a lot more
involved with the house itself because we
have to clean it ourselves and make our own
meals, so it’s a lot more like living in the real
world.”

Major goals of the Eco-op residents

Lindsay

include improving energy conservation and
increasing the amount of local food in their
meals. “We buy a lot of food from
Commons, Absolute Organics and the Home
Economist,” Lindsay said.

“We have a Wachovia checking account
that we use to pay for it.”

And although they are concerned with
energy conservation, she went on, “Just for
the record I'd like to say that we do take
showers daily and use electricity!”

Throughout the year residents of the co-op
will also work to spread ecological aware-
ness around the campus.

“We’re planning to make hors d’ouvres for
a group that’s having a big meeting in the
Lily Gallery in October, and we’re planning
to host some freshmen halls for dinner for
Hail Programs,” Lindsay explained.Ingram

See Eco-Op, page 7

SEPT 26, 2007

of Mike Wellmal

ip in Kannapolis; NC ‘Today, ‘she share:
passion. for’ dance. with her seven

aundry, recognizing them and. talkin
with them, She cites the warm sense of

It's important, Belk oneal to makes
ure that you do what your heart tells yous,
f you’re not passionate about something.

.

She wants students to know that they’

and do. anything they want.to doz To.

lose, Belk offered the following advice.

