2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

iia:

Chi
KeELLy BEGGs
Staff Writer

One Neighborhood, a fair trade store lo-
cated in Birkdale, hosted speaker and activ-
ist Chie Abad Tuesday, Sept. 16th at Summit
Coffee to explain what the price tags do not:
the true cost of clothing.

Abad’s story illuminates the hidden jour-
ney that a piece of clothing goes through be-
fore it sits folded on the shelves of a retail
store.

Abad says that “Sweatshop labor is not
just an allegation, but actual living and work-
ing conditions.”

Abad worked for Sako Corporation,
which makes clothes for the Gap and other
major US retailers on the Pacific island of
Saipan in the US Commonwealth of the
Northern Mariana Islands.

The labels on the clothes that she made
claimed “made in the USA,” but the wages
she received were far below the country’s
standard ($3.15 per hour) as were the work-
ing conditions that she endured.

These conditions include working over
14 hours a day, seven days a week in poorly
ventilated factory with no safety equipment.
Workers had restricted bathroom and water
breaks and lived in squalid barracks with
thirty women squeezed into a room the size

~e. ... wi

of the upstairs of Summit.

Abad, who is originally from the Philip-
pines, paid $2,500 to a recruiting agency to
get this job.

She and others were forced to sign a
“Shadow Contract” in which a person signs
away their basic rights—they relinquish the
right to participate in religious and political
activities; they cannot complain about work-
ing overtime.

In some cases these contracts prohibit
employees from marrying, and if a woman
gets pregnant, she will be fired.

After five years of this “lifestyle,” Abad
decided to take action and tried to organize
a union, but when the management discov-
ered her plan, they threatened to shut down
the factory.

Her coworkers feared losing their jobs,
so her attempt failed.

After this event, management refused to
renew her employment contract. Abad took
her case to the Equal Employment Oppor-
tunities Commission who prohibited Sako
from firing her.

She left Saipan in 1999 to come to the
United States to educate the American pub-
lic about the harsh realities of sweatshops.
Since then Abad has advocated the neglect-
ed rights of garment workers in Saipan and
around the world.

Lecture series welcomes

Katie LOVETT
Staff Writer

The first part of the 2008 Staley Lecture
Series, entitled The Melody of Faith: Theol-
ogy in an Orthodox Key, took place last Sun-
day at 7:30 p.m. in the 900 Room.

Each year the Staley Lecture Series offers
an opportunity for students and faculty alike
to hear distinguished Christian speakers.
The topics covered aim to be “both intellec-
tually challenging and spiritually fulfilling,”
stated this year’s speaker Dr. Vigen Guroian,
Professor of Eastern Orthodox Christianity at
the University of Virginia.

Guroian commented that he enjoyed re-
visting Davidson since he considered attend-

ing Davidson College before deciding on
the University of ‘Virginia. He received his
B.A. from UVA and then went on to earn his
Ph.D. from Drew University in New Jersey.
He is the author of over 250 articles and nine
books, including “Inheriting Paradise” and
“Ethics After Christendom.”

The focal point of Guroian’s lecture was
his desire to “enrich the understanding of and
ability to communicate” Orthodox theology.

Guroian began “The Melody of Faith”
by presenting a late medieval Armenian il-
luminated manuscript of the Creation and
pointing out that many people are unfamiliar
with Orthodox beliefs. However, according
to Guroian, “they constitute the second most
prominent religion in the world.”

a

photo by Bill Giduz

Dr. Vigen Guroian, Professor of Eastern Orthodox Christianity at the University of

Virginia visited Davidson last week.

News.

er aE

Abad visits Summit, shares story

Her advocacy has created positive
change—in September 2002, a settlement
was reached for a class action lawsuit that
investigated the working conditions of 26
major retailers in Saipan. The $20 million
settlement went back to workers to pay for
recruitment fees and unfair wages.

Abad avidly encourages students to get
involved in advocacy. She recommends that
students encourage their universities to join
the Sweat-Free Campus Campaign, an initia-
tive of United Students Against Sweatshops,
“in which students organize anti-sweatshop
campaigns on their campuses, mandating
that the clothes bearing their collegiate logos
be manufactured under fair and ethical con-
ditions.”

It is startling that Davidson’s bookstore
could be full of garments constructed by
exhausted ill-treated laborers, but organiza-
tions like USAS are striving to make college
sweatshirts sweat-free.

Abad’s presentation emphasized that the
clothes we wear are the result of someone’s
labor, and it is our social responsibility as
consumers to ensure that the conditions of
that labor were humane.

Advocates like Abad shed light on the
injustices of the global economy to help con-
sumers realize that we need to turn free trade
into fair trade.

Dr. Guroian

Guroian proceeded to reflect on the dis-
tinctive contributions of Orthodox Christian-
ity to the Christian faith with a multi-media
approach.

He instituted the playing of several short
liturgical hymns and displayed Orthodox
icons that exhibited the doctrines of creation
and resurrection.

Several probing questions were raised
throughout the lecture. Guroian kept his au-
dience actively engaged by drawing parallels
not only to well know theologians and phi-
losophers, but also even to authors such as
C.S. Lewis.

His comparison of a passage from Lew-
is’s well-known children’s book “The Magi-
cian’s Nephew” to the Biblical creation story
proved to be intriguing and insightful. The
professor focused on King Aslan’s act of
singing the Narnian world into existence,
portraying the event as a harmonious and
musical instance of creation.

Guroian observed that this melodious ac-
count of creation embodied a “truth about
God and the Creation that was often over-
looked by theologians,” who become too
caught up in the strictly literal aspect of the
Bible and its text.

Guroian views the Creation as “harmoni-
ous and musical, but a sacred kind of music,
like a hymnal”.

The description of his own Armenian
church’s Sunday hymn highlighted the man-
ner in which the contradictory four elements
of fire, earth, air, and water become harmoni-
ous and furthered Guroian’s lecture.

He then diverged into an explanation of
the “music of the spheres” and depicted how
Saint Gregory viewed the “universe as an
established order and a well arranged musi-
cal harmony”. A music clip strengthened his
point and allowed the audience to receive “a
sense of the rhythm of the liturgy,” Guroian
said

Guroian concluded his lecture with the
assessment that “God is not an art critic or a
philosopher.”

Guroian further emphasized, “He [God]
is instead like a chanter who chants his or-
der into existence and then rejoices over its
beauty and harmony.”

The lecture reflected on the unique con-
tributions of Orthodox Christianity to the
Christian faith, offering his audience an en-
riching opportunity to understand an impor-
tant religious tradition.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

a .

Town, from page I
flicts that exist between the disparate town
plans will be identified and rectified in the
process of developing the comprehensive
plan.

One part the comprehensive plan will not
go into great detail about is how to develop
the town.

For example, the plan will not detail the
development of a certain intersection.

Instead, the plan will outline how to
adapt to the ongoing growth while still
maintaining the town’s character and small-
town feel. The goal is to prevent “big box
development,” according to Levine.

According to the Fall 2008 edition of
“The Town Message,” while many compre-
hensive plans just focus on land use, “the
Davidson Comprehensive Plan will target
innovative models for economic develop-
ment, needs of an aging population, public
art, environmental sustainability, and local
governance.”

This plan will look at “how government
responds to growth,” Blackburn said, and the
strength of the plan will come from how well
the town manages future growth.

Levine indicated that the town has been
providing for affordable housing for many
years.

The planning ordinance requires that all
developments include such housing in their
plans, and that the town has an Affordable
Housing Coordinator on staff. This provision
for affordable housing will continue in the
comprehensive plan.

A Public Art Task force made a recom-
mendation to the town about public art, said
Levine, and this recommendation will be
taken into account in the development of the
comprehensive plan. The definition of pub-
lic art is very broad, including sculptures,
benches, gardens, public art shows and rock-
ing chairs.

The plan will also look at innovative
ways to tap into new markets in order to
provide more inter-city employment, since
many people who live in Davidson do not
work here, according to Blackburn.

The comprehensive plan will also look
at the environmental responsibility of the
town.

While the town has been working to-
ward greater environmental responsibility
for many years, certain questions will be ad-
dressed such as: Should building be “green,”
and should town hall be transformed into a
green building?

Should future housing be constructed
from recycled material?

And should merchants be required to re-
cycle more?

The process of developing a comprehen-
sive plan will “rely on citizen input,” Levine
said. Research and data collection will be the
immediate next step, and many pubic meet-
ings wil! be held.

Local leaders and stakeholders like mer-
chants and property holders will be inter-
viewed, and there will be a series of town-
wide meetings about certain issues, like en-
vironmental responsibility.

Davidson College, as a key property-
owner and stakeholder in the town, will be
key to the development of the comprehen-
sive plan.

Dean Shandley said that any changes
that the town makes, especially to Main
Street, will affect the school, because Main
Street and quite often Griffith Street act as
the entrance to the school for thousands of
visitors every year.

Levine said that the town values the stu-
dents and thus desires their input in the cre-
ation of the plan.

Students can contribute by attending the
town-wide issue meetings and voicing their
opinions about certain issues.

Levine also said that the town’s eCrier,
which people are able tos sign up for on the
town’s website, www.ci.davidson.nc.us, will
provide updates about the comprehensive
plan.
