classes received frantic phone calls and text messages fro
nds, those off- campus. for the. afternoot rushed to
-computer and sidewalks buzzed with activity,
Granted, the unprecedented offer came amidst a time
extreme high spirits and excitement, but this. campus gave
new meaning to the idiom “good news travels fast” “Then,
in the space of another few hours, outrage turned to flying
‘rumors about the number of. students able to attend the
games” ‘and outrageous ‘conceptions ‘of -administrativ
deception. Two weeks later, we all recognize the enormot
capacity our small school has to spread ws, be
unsubstantiated.

‘lege’s: ‘future, though, ately became: “a source of anoth
type of rumor on campus. Some students began insisting
that more than 500 i incoming freshman already committed
Ao Davidson, “with more’ ‘streaming in, every: day. Chief”
. ng student concerns, “which included increased c
s to longer lines at Commons, \ was next year ’s hous
ation, Sarcastic suggestions ‘staff overheard includ-
. | new dorms. on the cross ¢ untry” ‘trails; ‘aAent. city 0
PCC lawn or ‘stashing freshmen in Base, Chamber, There.
er all, an unused fall-out shelter down | there
Beneath these rather unhelpful suggestions 1 ‘resides are
nable concern. If we guarantee first-year housing, and an.
exceptional number of students decide to attend next fall,
_what does that mean for those of us already committed t :
“dorms like Sentelle or Belk? Many students expressed fear:
that they would be forced into alternate housing, possibly:
: even off-campus. Others insisted that the townhouses. we
sold, or that Richardson’ s renovations won *t be finished b
mmer’s end. << : 7 z
After ‘speaking to ; Patty Perillo « on Monday ‘abou these.
rumors, we. found them to be-largely just. that: rumors. :
“While certainly an engaging topic of conversation, at this
point, hold off on speculation or worries. The administra--
tion plans to meet this

ie

amount of incoming : freshmen do’ commit to this schoo:
our, recommendation i is ‘multi- levels of hamm ksi
‘Hance dome. It’s just empty space anyways.

ERLE RE ROO OS

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LUBE ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
# Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
a News Editors
/ Nina Mace & Kate Kelly
} Perspectives Editors
_ Aa ‘Wan Oudenaren & Matt Petit
“sce & Living Editors 60%
nifer' Errington & Caroline ‘Wood a
Yow! Editors =
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt
‘Sports Editors

Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor. “
Copy Editor

Gretchen Hoffman

Business, Advertising and Circulation Manager

Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

secre sta Pt aan ar aos e
|The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays “doring the academi.
_ by. the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
vaddress all correspondencés to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box’ 718
Davidson, NC 28035-7182. Phone (704). 89:

‘ editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
EE Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00. pe

By TEDDY SCHLANGER
Guest Columnist

Last week, STAND, a student anti-genocide coalition,
hosted events to raise awareness of the situation in Darfur
and stimulate activism. Events included a power-hour of let-
ter-writing to President Bush, the presidential candidates
and members of Congress; a speech by Carl Wilkens, the
only American who experienced the 1994 Rwanda geno-
cide; a vigil and a concert, which has been rescheduled to
April 19 due to rain.

These events coincided with the Week of Action,
observed by 15 other North Carolina colleges and universi-
ties. The Week of Action was also designed as a springboard
for the Sudan Divestment Petition sponsored by STAND
and SGA. SGA President Davis Greene will present the
petition to the Board of Trustees on Thursday.

Targeted divestment is a strategy aimed at the two or three
dozen companies flagged by the Sudan Divestment Task
Force as worst-offender companies for doing business with
the Sudanese government. All worst-offender companies
meet three criteria:

First, they do significant business with the Sudanese gov-
ernment. Most are Chinese and Indian oil companies,
including Chinese oil giant Petro-China—which recently
surpassed Exxon-Mobil as the world’s largest company,
with a cumulative share value of over $1 trillion.

Second, their business does not benefit the citizens of
Sudan.

Approximately 70 percent of Sudanese oil revenue goes
toward military spending, essentially providing the arms
and manpower to perpetuate the genocide in Darfur.

Third, these companies are doing nothing to encourage
the government of Sudan to end its violent ways.

With these facts in mind, the members of STAND and
leaders of the SGA are collecting signatures for a petition
asking the trustees to divest, or sell shares of stock, in these
worst-offender companies in our endowment. As of the
most recent student review of stockholdings in the endow-
ment shows, most of this stock is in Sinopec Group, anoth-
er Chinese oil company, whose value in our endowment
totals about $260,000.

The divestment movement at Davidson will contribute to
withholding funding from the government of Sudan.

Additionally, it has enormous symbolic importance by-

aligning the college with the national divestment move-
ment.

TIVES

Divest Davidson’s endowment for Darfur

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 9, 2008

Since 2004, 25 states have divested their employee pen-
sion funds, including California and North Carolina.
Additionally, 60 colleges and universities — including all of
he Ivies, the University of North Carolina and our liberal arts
peers Bowdoin, Amherst and Middlebury—have divested
their endowments.

Furthermore, the success of divestment at the state govern-
ment and grassroots levels led Congress to pass two divest-
ment bills almost unanimously in 2007.

These included SADA, the Sudan Accountability and
Divestment Act, which provides legal authorization for states
wishing to divest and prevents companies that do business
with Sudan from receiving new government contracts.

Students can sign the petition in

print at our table on the bottom

floor of the Union or online by

following the petition’s link in
the Crier.

Recently, in response to the divestment movement, the
Sudanese government took out a $900,000 full-page ad in
‘The New York Times’ encouraging Americans to invest in
Sudan. Clearly, Sudan recognizes the effectiveness of this
campaign: it is time for all Americans to recognize it as well.

The prospect of joining this huge national movement pro-
vides Davidson with a wonderful opportunity to support
human rights and political justice that are currently being
ignored in Sudan. Following the Holocaust, national leaders
adopted the slogan “Never Again,” signifying that the United
States would never allow the recurrence of genocide on its
watch. Unfortunately, events in Cambodia in the 1970s,
Rwanda in 1994, Serbia throughout the 1990s and Darfur
currently demonstrate that this promise was at best half-
hearted.

Your signature on this petition will help to ensure that our
nation will finally fulfill its promise to act for the protection
of those in the international community who have no voice.

Students can sign the petition in print at our table on the
bottom floor of the Union or online by following the peti-
tion’s link in the Crier.

Teddy Schlanger ’08 is a History major from Washington,
D.C. Contact him at teschlanger@davidson.edu.

Clinton's policies threaten American Dream

Politics abhors a vacuum. As
~ such, Hillary Clinton has
assumed John Edwards’ populist
mantle in the campaign for the
Democratic presidential nomina-
tion. Doing so has enabled her to
consolidate support among the
working class. Fortunately for
Sen. Clinton, this constitutes a
Significant part of the
Democratic electorate in Ohio,
Pennsylvania and Indiana. Thus,
she has prevented, and may con-
tinue to prevent, Barack Obama
from unifying the Democratic
Party around his candidacy.

From a strategic perspective, it makes sense for Clinton to
embrace populism as her political creed. Yet from a philo-
sophical and economic perspective, Clinton’s populist plat-
form violates the traditions that have made America great.

Sen. Clinton recently stated that, “The American dream is
premised on a growing economy where people are in a mer-
itocracy and, if they’re willing to work hard, they will real-
ize the fruits of their labor.” Indeed, meritocracy is funda-
mental to America. Yet, Clinton proffers only a partial defi-
nition. To succeed in a meritocracy, one must not only work
hard, but also work hard at something of value to society.

In a meritocracy, he who digs ditches only to refill them,
despite his diligence, does not deserve success. Granted, this
example is hyperbolic: the working Americans who suffer
economically provide valuable goods and services to our
society. Yet, they are doing so at a cost significantly greater
than their foreign counterparts.

Should the state require American consumers to pay an
unnecessarily high price for goods and services in order to
support a workforce that has not adjusted to the pace of the
world economy? Clinton’s proposed populism suggests that
she would answer “yes” to this question. Regardless of the

* ZACH BENNETT ®

policy’s merits, her populism undermines America’s meri-
tocracy by shielding American workers from competition.

At least Sen. Clinton understands that, in a meritocracy,
one deserves to “realize the fruits of’ one’s labor. Despite
some pretensions, her populist rhetoric, by and large, does
not support this basic notion. She, like other candidates, has
indicted executive salaries as “offensive” and “wrong.”

Are these executives simply not realizing “the fruits of
their labor?” Sen. Clinton would likely respond that they are
receiving a disproportionate share of fruit. Meet the market,
Hillary Clinton. It determines the share of fruit proportionate
to labor, not the state.

Enter confiscatory taxation. Already, America’s regime of
progressive taxation unjustly demands a higher percentage
of income from those who, by their merits, achieve econom-
ic success. Sen. Clinton aims to augment this injustice by
raising the highest marginal tax rate. Certainly, seizing more
out of America’s pocketbooks will reinvigorate the econo-
my.

To be fair, I have not offered a comprehensive portrayal of
the Clinton economic program. In addition to protecting the
American economy from international trade and raising
taxes, she would impose a 90-day ban on home foreclosures
and mandate a fixed interest rate on subprime mortgages for
five years. Thus, she would prevent the market from correct-
ing itself at the expense of the vast majority of Americans
who prudently avoided subprime mortgages.

With freedom comes responsibility. A few Americans
freely adopted subprime mortgages. A Clinton administra-
tion would absolve them of responsibility. In addition to con-
stituting an injustice to those who avoided subprime mort-
gages, it would erode the sense of self-reliance that has made
America exceptional. Sen. Clinton’s populism has reminded
America of her political acumen. Yet, shouldn’t we demand
more than political acumen of our politicians?

Zach Bennett ’1l is a-Political Science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.
