10

THE DAVIDSONIAN

By Omar Pick
_ Staff Writer

| While many people u use 2 this
weekend to’ buy: expensive
flowers and. chocolates «for
their; significant». others,:
Valentine’s Day also provides
the perfect opportunity to think
, about oe L love. about:
sports... a
Sa First, let's talk about Major.
League Baseball. Who doesn’ t love the fact that,
because many of these players are so dedicated to.
-winning and being the best they can be at their craft;
they willfully inject illegal drugs into their body?
Better yet, what about. the managers, coaches.-and
reigning MLB Commissioner Bud. Selig, who.
rewarded the dedication of these Players by turning a.
blind eye to their steroid use?
According to an interview by I ohn Rocker earlier
this week; the Texas Rangers were even kind enough.
to teach players how to use steriods. without being
detected. What’s not to love about a sport in which
_arguably both its greatest hitter and its greatest pitch-
“er will be displayed in federal prison sooner than in.
the Hall of Fame?» Be
“ What’s there not to love about the National
Basketball Association? If you haven't heard, the:
NBA recently began a new program entitled, “Giving
‘away superstars for has-beens and never-beens?”. The
Lakers recently took advantage of this new program
by acquiring Pao Gasol, one of the best centers in the
league, for Kwame Brown (officially disowned by,
_Kwame Som Pimpong), Javaris Crittenton and late
first round draft picks. Not to be outdone, Phoenix.
_gave away one of its superstars, Shawn Marion, for
-36- year-old Shaquille O’Neal, who probably won’t
fit the Suns offense. The Suns may have given away
their best shot at. a championship, but. you have to
love. the confusing nature of the NBA: While 10
games above .500 keeps you out of the playoffs in the
West, 6 games under 500 gets you in the playofis i in
the East! #": :
What's not to love about the National Football
League?. Now here’s a model organization that other.
sports leagues wish they could emulate. Mike Vick, a
former franchise quarterback and face of the NFL;.
_Sits. in federal prison for dogfighting. The New.
England Patriots, the “team of the decade,” allegedly”
videotaped the Rams walkthrough before Super
Bowl XXXVL. I was privileged to see many things
this football season. I witnessed the tragedy that i is
the Carolina Panthers,
: Llaughed at the Miami Dolphins’ continuous string
of losses. Finally, I shook my head at the cruelty of
the Patriots running up the score late i in the fourth
quarter. /
2 Finally, T must show some love not to a specific.
league, but a team: The New York Giants. This is the
team that started 0-2 with.a coach the entire city
“wanted fired, and a quarterback who lived in his.
brother’s shoes. However, this team rallied. together,
and made it to the ay Bowl asa 6-seed. This is the.

e

love about sports?

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008

In 2008, sports and politics collide

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

Watching sports frequently provides a comfortable escape
from the political world. Sitting down to watch a game on tele-
vision or SportsCenter provides a refuge from network news
channels. However, 2008 seems to be a year when these spheres
will overlap in important, transformational ways.

In this election year, the most substantial congressional action
may turn out to be the enforcement of the Mitchell Report. With
party tensions at a fevered pitch, the likelihood of Congress
passing a substantive budget doesn’t seem likely; however, the
possibility of perjury charges for Hall of Fame players like Barry
Bonds and Roger Clemens seems very real. Former Sen. George
Mitchell’s reputation is on the line, and his report will either
condemn or exonerate after Wednesday’s hearings with
Clemens. Either the effectiveness of government investigation or
the reputation of our national pastime, both areas in which the
United States has struggled in recent years, will be further
undermined on Wednesday.

So on Wednesday, I will be watching the Congressional hear-
ings with heightened interest. But these domestic events pale in
comparison to the global political ramifications that will be ener-
gized by the sports world later this year over the Beijing
Olympics. These dynamics have already begun to work.

The Olympic Games are politically charged, pitting nations
against one another to vie for bragging rights. Symbolically, the
games are extremely important and oftentimes serve as an arena
for political conflicts. In 1936, they provided a stage for Hitler
to show off Aryan supremacy; thankfully, African-American
Jesse Owens claimed four gold medals, undermining Nazi
Germany’s racist agenda. Throughout the Cold War, the
Olympics became a venue where the United States and the
Soviet Union battled; their relationship remained so vitriolic that
both countries boycotted the games when they were held in their
antagonist’s backyard (Moscow, 1980; Los Angeles, 1984). Nine
Israeli athletes were abducted and murdered by Palestinean ter-
rorists in the 1972 Munich games. In short, this international

venue means a great deal.

No country is more aware of this than China. Thus, the
Chinese government has poured massive amounts of money and
resources into their cities and sports facilities to prepare. As
Simon Long of The Economist argues, “The Olympics them-
selves are naturally a chance to show off China’s rapid moderni-
sation to the outside world. But far more important is the audi-
ence at home, and the opportunity to prove just how much
China’s Communist rulers have achieved in restoring the coun-
try’s prestige.”

So, speaking out politically in these games could have a major
effect on China’s human rights abuses. But some countries are
already pulling a Google by censoring their athletes. Belgium
and New Zealand recently curbed their athletes’ rights to free
speech; athletes from these countries are banned from giving any
political opinions on the international stage.

These measures are not limited to marginal world powers. On
Sunday, responding to intense pressure from politicians and the
media in the United Kingdom, the British Olympic Association
backed down from measures that would force their athletes from
commenting “on any politically sensitive issues” involving
China. They are currently attempting to reword the language of
this ban. Germany and other important world players are in the
midst of debates over this issue.

The United States leads the pack of countries that thus far
refuses to censor their athletes. This position is consistent with
our political ideology, and I am proud of our bold position. But
this laissez-faire approach carries its own risks. We all know
from interviews with American athletes that they are susceptible
to speaking (how should I say this) carelessly. On a stage of this
importance, every word will be heard.

I hope this bad habit does not manifest itself this summer. The
stakes are too high. If all athletes use the Olympic venue
thoughtfully and strategically while their influence on the world
stage reaches its peak, it could be the first positive political turn-
ing-point in a very long time. If not, the Olympics could once
again display its darker side, bringing nationalistic energies to an
uncomfortable boil.

Men’s Tennis stays undefeated at home

By ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s tennis team remained busy this past weekend,
playing two back-to-back games against USC and Gardner-
Webb. The team achieved mixed results, losing against the
nationally ranked Gamecocks but defeating Gardner-Webb.

Playing the No. 58 USC Gamecocks at USC Indoor
Fieldhouse, Davidson hoped to upset the nationally ranked
squad but fell far short, losing 6-1. Scott Myers ’09 secured the
only victory of the day for Davidson in number six singles, beat-
ing Chris Sheehan 6-4, 6-2. The other matches all went for the
Gamecocks, led by their number one Yevgeny Supeko and num-
ber two Pedro Campos.

Luckily, the Wildcats could not dwell on the defeat for long.
On Sunday, Davidson hit the court again, but this time secured a
win against Gardner-Webb. Taking the contest by a score of 5-2,
Davidson remains undefeated (3-0) at home thus far in the sea-
son and improves to 3-2 on the year.

Davidson won all three doubles matches for the first time this
season to clinch the first point of the match. Walker Lyons ’11
and Sam Burns 710 won by the widest margin on the team with
a score of 8-2. The duo of Flaviu Simihaian ’08 and Ethan Jaffee
’09 also impressed when they won their match 8-4, and Phillip
Compeau ’08 and Eric Noble *10 secured a victory 8-3 in the
third doubles match.

Singles proved to be a bit more difficult for Davidson. At the
No. 1 and No. 2 singles spots, Simihaian and Jaffee both lost
their matches by tight scores; Simihaian fell in three sets 6-7, 6-
4, 6-4 while Jaffee dropped two sets 6-4, 6-3.

Luckily for the ’Cats, these two set-backs were the only two

ildcat Roundup

Men’s Bball Women’s Bball Track and Field Swimming and
17-6, 15-0 (14-9, 8-4) ivi
(17-6, 15-0) Next Up: Diving
2/9 at App St. Won 67-66 2/15 Tiger Invitational at Women (7-7, 1-1)
2/9 vs. CofC Won 81-56 Clemson Men (2-9, 1-1)

2/6 vs. Elon Won 74-64

Next Up:
2/15 vs. UNCG
Next Up: 2/18 vs. Elon.
2/13 at UNCG
2/16 vs. Furman Notes: The ’Cats are hosting
2/19 vs. UNCG

Notes: The Wildcats are 27-3
in February games since the
2003-2004 seeason.

UNCG.

“Think Pink” for Breast
Cancer Awareness Day on
Friday for their match-up with

Next Up:

2/21 CCSA Championships

Notes: The team is preparing for
this weekend’s Tiger Invitational
at Clemson University.

next week’s CCSA
Championships.

Notes: The Swimming and
Diving teams are preparing for

of the afternoon. With an impressive 4-2 record in singles play
on the season, Myers defeated Gardner-Webb’s Taylor Ferrier by
the score of 6-0 and 6-2. Noble stepped it up at the No. 3 singles
spot to register his first singles win of the season by a score of 6-.
2, 6-1. Fellow sophomore Burns claimed his second singles win
on the season 6-2, 6-3. To cap things off, Lyons won in a tough
three-set match to improve his freshman singles record to an
impressive 3-2.

On Saturday, Davidson will host Presbyterian at 1:30 p.m.
with hopes to continue the team’s winning streak at home. The
Wildcats will face another major challenger on Sunday at the
Knobloch Tennis Center, number 74 ranked Brown University.

Phillip Compeau ’08 teamed with Eric Noble ’10 for an 8-3
victory in doubles against Gardner-Webb on Sunday.

Tennis
Women (5-1)

2/9 vs. Wingate Won 7-0
2/9 vs. Queens Won 7-0
Men (3-2)

2/9 at #58 USC Loss 1-6
2/10 v.s. GWU Won 5-2
Next Up:

Women: 2/16 at #60 Va Tech
2/17 at Radford
Men: 2/16 vs. Presbyterian
2/17 vs. #74 Brown
Notes: Scott Meyers ’09 was the
lone ’Cat to score a singles win
against No. 58 South Carolina.

Wrestling
(1-10, 0-4)

2/5 at App St. Loss 8-37

Next Up:
2/16 vs. Campbell
2/16 vs. Anderson

Notes: Ben Altman ’10 and
Trebor Clavette ’08 picked up
victories in the loss at
Appalachain State.
