A Davidson education: The golden ti ticket t0 7 a a world of
opportunities, right? Wrong. Many qualified students cur-~
rently applying for summer internships cannot get the job
of their choice because of Davidson’s policies...

«The problem: Many businesses refuse to “hire” students
for unpaid positions unless the internship counts as aca-,
demie credit. By having a credit policy, the businesses are
exonerated from liability if the student intern gets injured
on the job—the responsibility lies with the academic insti-
tution. Granted, this is shrewd legal logie, but what’s frus-
trating is that hundreds of popular companies (such as
those in the fields of banking and film) have more than
enough money to pay their interns; they choose not. to,
because students apply anyway. Because they choose not.
to pay, they require internship eredit, making it impossible. :
for our students to apply in the first place. We know, we
know: This is.a part of life. All of us students know (even.
if we. don’t: personally: accept) the adage that “you win
some; you lose some.” However, to be denied a valuable:
internship experience based on Davidson’s policies just.
does not seem right or fair. Once again, students feel that
they are at a disadvantage simply for attending Davidson. ©
* Question: Why don’t. we accept internship credit?
he answer: Davidson’s underlying construct of course:
‘eredits as opposed to hour credits. Most internships don’t.
have an academic output that Davidson can evaluate.as a.
“course,” such as a research paper, Without an hour based”
system, hours of work spent at internships cannot be trans-.
ferred as credit, Although it is perfectly. respectable. for
Davidson to base their educational system on course ered-
its rather than hours, the administration should create poli-
cies that do not disadvantage its students. Also, because
Davidson is committed to its identity. asa liberal arts
school, the College neither provides nor accepts vocation-~<
al courses or internships (e.g. journalism, engineering)./7
~The future: The Curriculum Study: Group, one of
President Ross’ Strategic Planning committees, is current-
ly discussing these internship issues. Although it has yet to
draw any conclusions, the faculty, students and trustces
who comprise the committee are seriously discussing these,
issues.

' Possibilities right. now: . Students may participate in
Davidson’s own departmental internship programs, such as
the politieal z science. department’s «“Davidson in
Washington” program. Students can also create an inde-
pendent study, which can be an internship conducted dur-
ing the semester or summer as long as it has an academic.
output that a supervising adviser can evaluate, However,
these very limited options are hardly acceptable for an
institution as dedicated to preparing its. students for the.

Che Dz

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief

Suzie Eckl

; Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
News Editors

Nina Mace & Kate Kelly

Perspectives Editors
"# _/Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
22 Arts & Living Editors 7
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood >
James Boswell & Alex Hoyt.

Photography Editor _. Wi
Gretchen Hoffman ..

‘ Sports Editors -
Mike Frongello & Patrick.MeArdle’
Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor
Business, Advertising and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

se ggamvapcosaapaane

avidsonian i is published Wednesdays duting the eadem year:

oy the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please =
» address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
: i on, y NC 28035- 7182. Phone (704) 894- 2148.

mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices « are located in Room =,
+ 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in letters t
_ editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the views of the
_Editorial Board of The Davidsenian.. Subscriptions cost $50.00 pe
year. Advertising rates are. availabie upon request.’ «,

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
APRIL 16, 2008

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR °*

Davidson students to host peace witness

On Friday, April 18 at 5 p.m., a group of Davidson
College students will be hosting a 24-hour vigil in Lingle
Chapel to offer a Christian witness against the ongoing war
in Iraq.

We feel that this war, whether interpreted through the tra-
ditions of pacifism or just war, runs counter to the teachings
and example of Jesus. We believe that this war is not in
accordance with the good news of God’s kingdom.
Furthermore, many people see this war as one of Christians
waged against Muslims. We think this perspective is a false
use of the name of our Lord Jesus, the Prince of Peace, as
well as a misunderstanding of the complex religious reali-
ty in both the United States and Iraq. For these reasons, we
will not keep silent.

Because of our concerns, we have decided to gather reg-
ularly on campus to take part in a larger national Christian
Peace Witness for Iraq (christianpeacewitness.org), so that
Christians at Davidson who oppose the war for reasons of
faith and conscience may humbly and publicly witness
their disagreement.

We also hope to stand for an alternative vision rooted in
the biblical concept of shalom. We advocate continued
response by the United States to the consequences of this
war in ways that express Jesus’ vision for God’s kingdom,
such as funding relief efforts for Iraqis whose lives have
been shattered by the violence and providing generous
Support for our wounded veterans.

We also pray for our soldiers and their families, as well
as for the people of Iraq.

We hold a short weekly vigil every Thursday from 11:20
to 11:25 a.m. on the lawn between Chambers and Cannon.
Also, we welcome all to join us for our Vigil: Friday, April
18 and Saturday, April 19, both at 5 p.m.

In addition, worship services will be held at 5 and 11
p-m. on Friday and 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. on Saturday, with a
simple meal afterward. All vigil events will be held in
Lingle Chapel on campus.

John Allen 10

Low GPAs do not indicate value of education

The front page of last week’s Davidsonian proclaimed
that “Davidson’s GPA [was] lower than peers’.” Within the
article, there was much discussion over whether
Davidson’s GPA should be inflated to match its peer insti-
tutions. However, we are inclined to challenge this senti-
ment, as it does not get to the core of the issue. Davidson’s
academic rigor should not be altered to match peer institu-
tions and raise our GPAs.

President Ross indicated in a recent discussion that the
most important thing Davidson needs to do is to be
informed immediately. A comparison of GPA with peer
institutions does not get to the source of the issue.

We need to ask how we compare to other schools in
terms of graduate school acceptance rates and obtaining
quality employment. One’s grade point average does not
have any inherent value outside of serving as one of many
factors taken into account from graduate schools and some
employers.

Trust the Davidson education. Trust your own decision to
enroll here. Trust that the experiences at Davidson, both
good and bad, will serve you well. Trust that Davidson is
doing everything it can to improve the institution’s name
recognition throughout the world. Trust that the talents and
experiences you gain from being here will make you the
type of adult sought by employers around the globe. Until
we are shown that a Davidson education does not provide
opportunities for post-college life, we need to stop mis-
trusting our institution.

It is a fact that many Davidson seniors—and recent grad-

uates—have secured great jobs in the Charlotte financial
district. Others will and have gone on to top-ranked gradu-
ate programs and medical schools. Older Davidson alums
also hold some of the most prestigious jobs in corporate
America.

Ultimately, when we graduate, each of us is better and
more informed than we were when we graduated from high
school.

Sure, there are ways to improve Davidson College, but
we cannot lose sight of how we have improved through the
four years that we’ve been here. We have better skills, bet-
ter talents, and are better people as a result of being here.

The value of a liberal arts education cannot be quantified
in a single number. Yet, it is at all times applicable and
always something worth valuing.

Chris Burton ’08

Health Center posters inappropriate

LAURA VAN QUDENAREN
Perspectives Editor

Are you female? Do you wear makeup? Are you flirta-
tious? Do you have a nose piercing? I regret to inform you
that if you answered “yes” to any of the questions above,

“you might have AIDS. Or, at least according to the Health

Center, you might.

A few weeks ago, I first noticed posters advertising “Free
HIV testing” around Chambers. Although I was pleased
that the Health Center was encouraging students to be
aware of sexually transmitted diseases, I was disappointed
in the posters themselves. The poster shows a young
female with a nose piercing half hidden by a bed sheet,
winking a heavily painted eye at the camera suggestively.
She is confident, seductive and trendy. She also might have
AIDS.

Although the poster is clearly an attempt to relate to col-
lege students, I am disappointed that the Health Center
resorted to stereotypes in order to encourage participation.
By showing a young woman in bed, the poster suggests that
female promiscuity will result in fatal sexually transmitted
‘diseases —but there is no suggestion that men will experi-
ence the same consequences for their sexual activities.

For many, a double standard exists in today’s society in
which a promiscuous male is acceptable, but a promiscuous
female is labeled a slut or a whore. I do not believe that the
Student Health Center should exercise the same stereotyp-
ical contempt of female sexuality as college students.

In addition to frowning upon female sexuality in general,
the posters suggest that any confident and flirtatious female
has a higher risk of contracting HIV. While the poster does
not explicitly state that the female in question has HIV, it
suggests that she is either relieved to discover she does not
have HIV because she was worried, or that she is so
promiscuous she should get tested for HIV. In either case,
the poster suggests that the girl’s confidence and sexuality
are dangerous to her health.

A friend of mine said, it is not
an advertisement for free HIV

testing, it is an advertisement for
free HIV.

When I first saw the poster, I thought I was the only per-
son bothered by it. However, a quick conversation with my
friends changed my mind. My roommate even witnessed a
man on a tour of Davidson stop in front of the poster and
shake his head disgustedly.

I truly believe that the poster damages the image of the
school. As a friend of mine said, it is not an advertisement
for free HIV testing, it is an advertisement for free HIV.

Laura Van Oudenaren ’10 is an English major from
Bethesda, Md. Contact her at
lavanoudenaren@ davidson.edu
