6 Tue DavipsoniAn

Arts & LIVING

Relive °80s with ‘Rats’

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

I have a confession: I’m a big fan of 80s
rock.

To my slightest amusement, I have
recently spotted several students wearing
circa 1987-ish clothing in the basement of the
library. Was I was just dreaming? Probably.
But I do know that the 1980s was a decade of
true musical fruitfulness.

As peachy as this may be, I decided to
write a music review on a talented 80s band
that few have ever heard. So, grab your neon
Reebok high-tops, and let’s check out The
Boomtown Rats.

Founded in 1975 as an Irish rock band
by Bob Geldolf, The Boomtown Rats were
heavily influenced by Dr. Feelgood and
Bob Marley. Later, they soared to the top of
charts in the UK with their debut hit-single,
“Looking after Number One.”

They also released a popular self-titled
CD as their debut album. This CD was a
success; however, it was not until their
second album, “A Tonic for the Troops” that
the band made a name for themselves in the
European music scene.

In fact, the song “Rat Trap” became the
first ever rock song by an Irish band to find its
place : as number one in the UK music charts.

new name “The Rats.”

ee oe cagaaeeneancaneray a eee

ruffied or sts

ee

British band “The Boomtown Rats” have reorganize or the

The Boomtown Rats were known to use
and layer sounds from guitars, drums and
synthesizers to create a distinct style of music
that resembled psychedelic rock.

In 2008, former group members Garry
Roberts and Simon Crowe reformed the
band. Interestingly, Bob Geldof has decided
that their band name will undergo a change
to be known as “The Rats” for their gigs in
2008.

Several students listened to
commented on several Boomtown songs.

“The music takes people’s complaints
and puts it into song.” Daniel Cook ’12 said,
“Tt definitely catches you off guard because it
sounds so inspirational at first, then the song
transforms into a crazy, intense rock song.
It’s awesome.”

However, some students have mixed
opinions, such as Michael Majzoub ’09 and
James Garrett ’09.

“Though the song wasn’t incredible, we
feel like its writers should get some points for
sounding like the perfection that is Queen,”
they said.

The Rats are bringing the ‘80s back on
the music scene. In a recent interview, Simon
announced, “We’re just going to get out there
and see what reaction we get. We’re back,
we’re in action and it could be Boomtime
again.”

and

blouse. You don’t have to go Jack ‘Sparro
‘style, but something .with an extra ruff
or pattern would be great, Next, leggings.
or tightsy as they are* Versatile, practical.

Hudson, from page 5

control on this date than he had on the last.
Tank and Alexis continue to see each other
behind Dustin’s back and things become
serious. It seems as if Tank may be turning
over a new leaf and becoming a good man.

Confused by his feelings and racked with
guilt for lying to Dustin, Tank goes to see his
father, Professor Turner (Alec Baldwin). It
quickly becomes apparent from Professor
Turner’s outrageously entertaining behavior
where Tank learned his “lady-wooing”
skills.

His father’s advice is harsh as he explains
to Tank that Turner men are not men of
commitment. Tank falls for this claim, and
decides he isn’t good enough for Alexis and
that Dustin is the man for her.

He finally does the job Dustin hired him
to do when he humiliates Alexis at her sister’s
wedding.

The movie plays through the 10 horrific
stunts that he pulls to lose her affection.
Humor runs rampant as he goes wild,
dropping Alexis’ grandmother during a dance
and offering her mother a sexual! favor.

The wedding climaxes when a drunken
Dustin crashes the wedding and exposes Tank
for who he truly is. Needless to say, Tank
ends the night without Alexis, but sporting a
bruised cheek.

Don’t give up hope for Tank just yet; he
is granted one more chance with Alexis after
Dustin sees how much Tank cares for her and
recognizes his bold act of friendship.

In the end, Alexis gives in to her feelings
for him. In a humorous final scene she
confronts him in a public restaurant with
many of the same tricks he used on her.
Thankfully, the joke is followed up with a
kiss.

So if you are looking for the perfect
date movie, “My Best Friend’s Girl” is an
excellent choice.

ih

hours with discussion panels. that-are open,

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

personal story into the narrative, like many
women in the film, she underwent: breast,
augmentation. ; Shomy. after the 4 surgery

in. thee evening, the festival fills the daytime,

ree ¥ ‘and access. to- a panel
Secon is only. $3: Visit the website for a.

weekend, Instead, make the short-trip to
Charlotte and waich anew and innovative,
film.

Cabinet no. 4 by
Dust Furniture
