14 Tue DavipsoNntIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 5, 2008

Heisman Award? Who Cares? Curry, ’Cats earn

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

As this college football season enters its third trimester,
there are many fantastic storylines. The season has been tre-
mendously exciting, with ranked teams falling weekly and a
current top five that no one predicted in August. The season
has been rife with upsets, surprises, fantastic play and rabid
fan bases.

Allow me to list a few of the intriguing questions that
will be answered in the season’s last month. Can Joe Paterno
go out with a bang and lead Penn State to a national title? (I
do believe he will retire if the Nittany Lions hoist the crystal
football at season’s end.) Is Nick Saban’s Alabama team re-
ally far enough ahead of schedule that they can claim a cham-
pionship in his second year at the helm?

Or we could-go with a few others. Who will emerge out
of the wild, wacky and offensively supercharged Big 12? Can
USC climb back into the championship picture after their di-
saster at Oregon State?

Any one of these questions would serve as a wonderful
leading story about the rest of the season. So what does the
majority of media outlets deem as the most promising topic?
That would be the race for this country’s most overhyped and
overrated piece of hardware: the Heisman trophy.

Simply put, the Heisman trophy does not hold the same
cache that it once did. The voting process has become obso-
lete, and the trophy has become more of a spectacle than an
actual honor. Sportswriters across the country vote for their
Heisman choices, with the award finally being presented in
early December.

First, a trophy given out before the bowl games have been
played and the national championship decided is ludicrous.
In fact, voters can turn in their ballots weeks before the regu-
lar season has even ended. We currently have.a system that
does not even honor a full season’s work.

For example, in 2005 USC’s Reggie Bush captured the
Heisman. Bush was certainly a phenomenal college player
who captivated the nation with his dazzling runs and incred-
ible spin moves. However, was he the best player in the coun-
try that year? Or how about the player most valuable to his
own team? I would venture to say no on both counts.

As the BCS Championship game showed that year, Tex-

as’ Vince Young was the nation’s most outstanding player.
He accounted for over 400 yards of total offense as Texas
upset the favored Trojans in the Rose Bowl (a game played
in USC’s back yard).

Anyone who watched that game knew that Texas, without
Young, was nowhere near USC’s level. I would argue that
USC without Bush would have found themselves in the same
spot. They had All-Americans in QB Matt Leinart, RB Len-
Dale White (yes, Bush’s backfield partner was named an All-
American by several outlets), and WR Dwayne Jarrett.

So how did Bush run away with the Heisman when Young
had actually had a regular season that held up well to his Rose
Bowl performance? That takes us down another road that in-
dicates a severe flaw in the voting system. It really is a novel
idea: voters have biases! A city like Los Angeles has many
prominent sportswriters. Given the numbers, it is clear that a
fairly large percentage will come from that area.

Seemingly every year, votes are almost completely seg-
regated by region. Southern writers will typically vote SEC
or ACC. Midwest? Big 12 or Big Ten. Western voters almost
always side with candidates from the West. This used to serve
a purpose. Before the days of internet and satellite television,
average fans did not get to see many games from outside their
regions. The writers had an obligation to stand up for their
local candidate. Now, I can sit on my couch on Saturdays and
watch pretty much any game I want. Davidson itself offers
students five different ESPN channels!

Regional bias creates a problem because all regions are
not created equal. In the SEC, there will likely be several can-
didates each year. In the Pac-10, which has been dominated
by USC for years, there is usually a dearth of candidates not
wearing Trojan colors.

I, for one, would like to see all of this “Heisman hype”
put to an end. I couldn’t care less whether Texas Tech’s Gra-
ham Harrell wins the award. I care much more about how the
Red Raiders handle their no. 2 ranking in the polls this week.
Texas Tech upset previously top-ranked Texas last week in
the best game I have watched this season. What did we get to
hear about in the postgame? How does this impact the Heis-
man? Yuck.

So sit back, enjoy the roller coaster that is the college
football season, and forget about the Heisman trophy race.
You will not regret it.

Hockey earns weekly honors, falls to no. 5 UNC

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson field hockey team had a mixed week with
conference accolades and a defeat against the University of
North Carolina, who is ranked sixth in the country.

Last Sunday the team traveled to Chapel Hill for their
last regular game of the season and was defeated 9-0. The
Tar heels, one of the toughest teams in the countryt, provided
good exposure and experience for the Wildcats. The Wildcats
earlier in the year lost a rather close game to Wake Forest
who is number one in the country. These two games demon-
strate the difficulty of the schedule for the team.

Earlier last week two of the girls were given conference
weekly awards. Midfielder Britti Himelfarb ’09 was awarded
Offensive Player of the Week for her goals and her role in
Davidson’s wins two weeks ago.

In the last two home games of her college career, Hime-
Ifarb was recognized for her impressive back-to-back two
goal games. She also had assists that were a part of her award
for being the best offensive player two weeks ago.

Midfielder Kathelijn van der Ven ’12 was awarded Rook-
ie of the Week for the second time this season. She has had

7 ON meme
Football Field Hockey
(3-5, 2-4) (6-13, 1-5)
Results: Results:
11/f @ Campbell W 49-0 11/2 @ UNC LO0-9
Next Up:

11/6-11/8 NorPac Tournament:
11/6 vs. Stanford
11/7 TBD

Next Up:
11/8 vs. San Diego

Notes: The Wildcats ended a
four-game losing streak with
their win over Campbell and
will finish the season with three
straight home games.

Notes: Goalkeeper Christa
Goeke ’10 had a season-high
11 saves in the loss to UNC
and is now Sth on Davidson’s
all-time saves list.

an impressive rookie season, contributing to Davidson’s suc-
cess. Van der Ven scored four points in the two games con-
sidered for the award. She has the second place ranking for
points on the team with fourteen. She has started all of the 18
games for the team this year, which makes her one of only
two on the team.

In the game against UNC, last year’s national champions,
the Wildcats were unable to obtain any momentum and were
unable to capitalize on scoring opportunities.

Goaltender Christa Goeke *10 was impressive, saving 11
shots in 62 minutes of action. This save total was a season
high for the team. For the year she has 68 saves and 244 for
her career, moving her into fifth on the all-time career saves
list. Himelfarb had the only shot for the Wildcats giving her
28 for the year, the second highest total on the team.

The loss ended a three-game winning streak for the Wild-
cats and was an unhappy ending to their regular season. Da-
vidson’s regular season record for this year was 6-13. The
team hopes to overlook the game and move on to an impres-
sive showing in the conference tournament.

They were given the seventh seed in the tournament and
will play number two in the conference, Stanford, on Nov. 6
in Farmville, Va.

2 steer.

Men’s Soccer Women’s Soccer

(4-13-1, 2-5-0) (10-6-3, 8-4)
Results: Results:
10/29 @ Wofford W 1-0 10/30 @ Ga. Southern W 2-1
11/1 vs. Ga. Southern L 1-2 11/2 SoCon Quarterfinals:

vs. Furman L 0-1

Next Up:
11/8 SoCon Quarterfinals:
@ Furman Notes: For the second consecu-
tive season the Wildcats’ season
came to an end with a one-goal

home loss to Furman in the
SoCon Tournament.

Notes: The ’Cats return to
Furman where they lost 2-1 on
October 10 for a match-up with

the second-seeded Paladins in
the first round of the SoCon
Tournament.

Notes: The ’Cats conclude the
season with four straight home

preseason accolades

By MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Editor

Fresh off last season’s Elite 8 run, the Davidson men’s
basketball team is still receiving quite a bit of attention prior
to the start of the 2008-2009 season.

Both the preseason ESPN/USA Today Coaches Poll and
the preseason Associated Press Poll were released this week
and featured the ’Cats ranked 20th in the nation. The Wild-
cats finished last season ranked no. 9 in both polls following
their 29-7 season and deep tournament run, but this year must
replace the holes left by the graduated Jason Richards 08 and
Thomas Sander ’08.

Davidson is looking for its fourth straight Southern Con-
ference title this year after cruising to a 23-0 record in con-
ference play last season. The Wildcats have been tabbed by
the conference’s coaches and media to repeat as South Divi-
sion champs receiving a unanimous 11 votes from opposing
coaches and 19 out of 20 media votes.

Also announced at the Southern Conference’s Tip-off
luncheon in Charlotte last week was the selection of Stephen
Curry °10 as the SoCon Preseason Player of the Year. Curry
averaged 25.9 points per game and was among the nation’s
leaders in scoring last season as a sophomore. Along with
Curry, forward Andrew Lovedale ’09 was also named to the
preseason All-Conference team.

In addition to the SoCon Preseason Player of the Year
honor, Curry joins North Carolina’s Tyler Hansborough,
Notre Dame’s Luke Haragody, UCLA’s Darren Collison and
Oklahoma’s Blake Griffin on the Associated Press Preseason
All-American Team. The junior guard received 66 out of 72
votes and was the second leading vote-getter. behind Hans-
borough, the only unanimous selection.

Davidson and Curry face a possible match-up with Grif-
fin and his Oklahoma Sooners in the second round of the Pre-
season NIT in Norman, Oklahoma on Nov. 18. The ’Cats
will also have a chance to solidify their preseason ranking
with another tough nonconference schedule that includes
N.C. State (Dec. 6), West Virginia in the Jimmy V Basket-
ball Classic (Dec. 9), preseason no. 11 Purdue in the Wooden
Tradition (Dec. 20) and a short road trip to Cameron Indoor
Stadium to face preseason no. 8 Duke (Jan. 7).

Curry and the ’Cats burst onto the national scene last
season in March as they defeated Gonzaga, Georgetown and
Wisconsin on their way to the Midwest Regional Final where
the team lost to eventual national champion Kansas 59-57
in Detroit. After averaging an NCAA Tournament-leading 32
points per game, Curry was named the Midwest Regional’s
Most Outstanding Player.

Yeo
OY,

Stephen Curry ’10 has received AP Preseason All-
American and SoCon | Preseason Player of the Year.

Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
(11-16, 6-8) Cross Country
Results Results:
amford L 0-3 Women- 5th
Next Up: Notes:

11/7 vs. CofC

11/8 vs. Citadel Caroline Sanker ’09 finished

eighth individually at the SoCon
Championships with a time of
18:13. Her performance earned

her All-Conference honors for the

conference games and look to

finish strong to solidfy their po-

sition for the Southern Confer-
ence Tourmament.

third consecutive season.
