THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Improving Davidsonian requires broad support

Ze ECKL
Editor-in-Chief

My term as The Davidsonian’s editor-in-chief ends today,
and after looking back on the past year, I wonder if this
publication could ever possibly improve. It needs to, but I
don’t think it can under current school policies.

Consider the critical role The Davidsonian plays. The
entire college community depends on this paper, including
every student, faculty member, administrator and staff person,
even those who do not bother to read it. The Davidsonian
provides a way to highlight campus events; to voice student
opinions; and to keep an eye on the administrative goings-on
so that we, the student body, have an opportunity to have our
voices heard.

But even beyond that, and perhaps more importantly, the
paper plays an integral role in drawing prospective students
to Davidson. The admissions office receives dozens of
newspapers every week for visitors, and, as a campus tour
guide, I know that it is one of the publications both students
and parents ask for first. Even those who cannot visit Davidson
in person have access to The Davidsonian’s Web site.

Simply put, The Davidsonian is a service to this
community, one that affects this school’s reputation. We need
to produce a quality publication, but that seems impossible
at Davidson.

For one thing, campus newspapers depend upon student
participation, and here students have neither time nor incentive
tocontribute. Those that docontribute work for next to nothing.
Staff writers are students who receive no pay and no course
credit. Copy editors volunteer their time at all hours of the
night. Section editors must generate, assign, edit and place
every article and photograph. And when they don’t have
enough content to fill every page, they often have to write
articles, too. Meanwhile, the managing editors and I run
around from meeting to meeting every day just to make sure
the newspaper stays afloat.

These jobs take hours each week, and, to make’ things
even more difficult, we are limited to Monday and Tuesday
nights to finish everything.

If the student body or the administration wants to see
true improvement in The Davidsonian—-and they should—
something fundamental must change.

One possible change would be: to award course credit
to members of The Davidsonian staff. Many colleges and
universities offer course credit for newspaper employees; so
too should Davidson. According to Registrar Hansford Epes,
college credit is currently not offered for the newspaper
because it is not a course. He says that the Davidson diploma
represents academic work, and does not, maybe even should
not, reflect other activities. ;

Davidson’s stance on the course credit issue—that it does
not reflect coursework—has merit, but wouldn’t it be an
easy fix to consistently offer journalism courses? The school
already offers courses in Communication Studies, which focus
on speaking abilities, but why not offer a class that allows
students to study written communication like journalism and
new media in this rapidly changing, YouTube world? With
classes like these, it would be simple to incorporate work on
The Davidsonian as credit.

Other course credit options could be explored, as well.

The missing piece of

= ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

Davidson is a highly selective independent liberal arts
college that, since its establishment in 1837 by Presbyterians,
has been regarded as one of the top liberal arts schools in the
country. Davidson also boasts a portion of the student body
that lacks common courtesy.

The Union is a place where students gather to socialize, to
study, to eat, to sleep and many other activities. Whatever the
circumstances, most understand the normative boundaries
-of a common space, one that is shared with others. Some,
however, do not comprehend this simple concept: even
though a piano sits in the Union, we ought preserve some
modicum of discretion in using it. Playing it during the day is
acceptable — those trying to study realize that the Union is a
bustling place, and will not be offended by the music.

The nighttime, however, is a different situation entirely.
By the time 2:30 a.m. rolls around, most, if not all, of the
students in the Union are there to work. Even if work is not
the reason, those that remain during those hours do so with
the understanding that it will be a quiet atmosphere. Loudly
playing the Union piano that late into the night is a complete
and utter nuisance. It is not only rude, but also incredibly
obnoxious.

Imagine this scenario: you’re in the Union at 11 p.m. on
a Tuesday, eating a quesadilla while sitting and talking with

The Davidsonian could establish some kind of hierarchy in
which staff writers that contribute weekly earn half a course
credit each semester and section editors a full credit. Or, the
course could fall under some kind of Independent Study, and
each newspaper edition might become entries in a portfolio
that a student must present in order to receive credit.

I do not support one of these arguments over another, but
rather I am just trying to demonstrate that dozens of viable
options are available to us if we just start talking.

And previously, we haven’t. Course credit for The
Davidsonian has never been seriously considered, but now,
during the Strategic Planning process, is the perfect time to
begin such consideration. Even if the administration does
not want to consistently offer a journalism course, it should
find some other way to make room for Davidsonian course
credit. By awarding credit, the administration would not only
alleviate the stress put on the staff but also would attract more
writers, thus leading to vast improvement.

Another option would be to provide greater funding to
the newspaper. Yes, the editorial staff does get paid for their
work, but the pay is a mere pittance. A section editor may put
in 10 hours each week fulfilling his or her various jobs, but
that editor will only receive a stipend of $20 for the work.
This is because the staff pays itself for the work through
subscriptions and advertising revenue, and there isn’t much
to be had.

Perhaps more viable would be the elimination, or rather
the incorporation, of various college publications. Currently,
this- small student body strives to support an excess of
newspapers, magazines both literary and political, bathroom
stall documents and numerous online periodicals. Wouldn’t
combining forces, at least for some of these publications,
make sense? Wouldn’t it lead to a more diverse, interesting
and encompassing document?

The Davidsonian had a negative reputation on campus
when I took over a year ago, but to point fingers at the editorial
staff would be wrong because we depend upon the rest of the
school to contribute. And when the students don’t contribute,
the quality of the paper decreases; and when the quality of
the paper decreases, our reputation suffers; and when our
reputation suffers, the students don’t contribute. It’s a vicious
cycle of negative feedback that will give an editor-in-chief
nightmares. Believe me, I’ve had them.

Fortunately, I think that The Davidsonian has improved
greatly over the past year, and for that I have to thank my
current editorial staff that has made my life so much easier
with enthusiasm and genuine dedication. Their names are in
the staff box on the left, and I hope that every student on this
campus gives them the respect and thanks that they deserve.

But more than that, I hope ‘that both students and
administration will help them out, either by contributing
articles or by trying to find a way to improve this essential
campus publication.

Brian Moran ’09 and Katherine Miller ’10 will take over
as co-editors-in-chief next semester, and I could not possibly
leave the newspaper in more capable hands. Please do your
best to support them because they’ve got a huge job that
requires your help.

Suzie Eckl ’09 is an English major from Bedford, Tex.
Contact her at sueckl@davidson.edu.

a Davidson education

a couple of your close friends. You sit by the fire, of course,
because it’s close to freezing outside. Suddenly, I enter the
Union carrying a snare drum in one hand, the drum stand in
the other and sticks in my pocket. I place the drum next to
the piano, and start playing. I keep going and going, gaining
decibels as time passes.

This isn’t why you came here, is it? You don’t want to
sit here and listen to some buffoon make noises he could
make in, say, a practice room in the Sloan Music Building,
do you? The argument, “But a lot of people like it!” has no
place in this discussion. A lot of people are fond of call girls
too, but you don’t see many of those roaming around campus
(excepting, of course, last year’s incident on an unnamed
freshman hall).

After three and a half years, I fail to understand how
some Davidson students cannot grasp such simple social
concepts. Be considerate of others; it’s not that hard, I
promise. Assuming the entire Union wants to listen to your
performance is not only arrogant, but inane. A venue for such
performances exists—it is called Live Thursdays.

Please don’t be inconsiderate to those around you. Realize
that your life isn’t necessarily more or less important than
anyone else’s. Have some common courtesy, and be aware of
how your thoughts, words and actions affect people.

Anjan Mukherjee '09 is a music major from Chevy
Chase, Md, Contact him at anmukherjee @dayidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008 9

Return to right
will exacerbate
GOP woes

ZEKE WEBSTER
Guest.Columnist

Three weeks ago, my fellow columnist Bobby DesPain
offered his explanation for the Republican Party’s current
electoral troubles. In his second sentence, DesPain seemed to
locate the source of the problem: “George W. Bush, Senator
Mitch McConnell and Representative John Boehner have not
only failed their party but the United States.” Momentarily,
I imagined that I would agree with Mr. DesPain’s writing
for once. A world of possibilities appeared before my eyes. I
thought that Barack Obama’s victory would really bring this
country together, that soon the lion would lay with the lamb,
and that we could all live together in harmony. Then I read
Bobby’s fourth sentence.

In that fourth sentence, DesPain blamed the GOP’s
decline on three things: fighting “islamofascism” while being
“Politically Correct,” increasing government spending, and
“putting out a welcome mat” for illegal immigrants. He ranted
on in this vein for another three paragraphs. His conclusion?
People like Michelle Bachmann, Jim DeMint and James
Inhofe, three of the most extreme right-wing ideologues in
Congress, should take control of the Republican Party and
lead it back to true conservatism. At this point, I wondered
where DesPain had been for the past few years. Or, barring
that, what kind of hallucinogenic drugs he’d been using.
While this may be a good way for the GOP to please voters
like Bobby DesPain, I can’t imagine that the rest of the
country will like it.

In his explanation of John McCain’s defeat, DesPain
never uses the word “Iraq.” He also ignores healthcare, the
stagnation of middle class wages and the environment. He
never mentions that a hurricane nearly destroyed New Orleans
on Bush’s watch. He never acknowledges that scandals,
cronyism and incompetence marred the administration. No,
DesPain has three issues, and he’s sticking to them, no matter
how little sense they make.

First, he thinks that we should take the gloves off in the
War on Terror. Frankly, I don’t know what this is supposed to
mean. After all, Bush invaded two countries, institutionalized
the torture of terror suspects, began illegal large-scale
wiretapping of American citizens, established secret prisons
in foreign countries and claimed unprecedented authority to
ignore US and international law. What more could DesPain
want? Should we invade Iran too? Should we assassinate
foreign heads of state? Even if these were good ideas, who
in their right mind would vote for Barack Obama instead
of John McCain because they thought that the Republicans
weren’t hawkish enough?

We’re also supposéd to believe that Republicans are
unpopular because of the Bush administration’s big-spending
ways. I, for one, wonder who would vote for Obama over
John McCain, who promised an across-the-board spending
freeze and lacked any domestic agenda other than opposition
to earmarks, out of the belief that government has grown too
large. What’s more, Bush’s domestic spending increases are
a rare point of popularity. Medicare Part D, which provides
prescription drugs to seniors, and homeland security
improvements account for the bulk of these outlays.

DesPain’s final point, that a soft stance toward
undocumented immigrants cost the GOP, is even more
nonsensical. Although Bush, McCain and other Republican
leaders supported comprehensive reforms which included a
path to citizenship for illegal immigrants, their party strongly
opposed it. Nearly every Democrat supports the same reform,
at least tepidly. DesPain expects us to believe that voters
voted for the more liberal party because the conservative
party wasn’t conservative enough. This is just crazy talk.

Now, while it doesn’t mean much that an undergraduate
at Davidson thinks that the Republicans should become more
conservative, there are a lot of conservatives out there that
agree with DesPain. Folks like Rush Limbaugh and writers at
The National Review also think that the GOP needs to double
down on hard-right conservatism, whether it appeals to the
concems of moderate voters or not. As a liberal Democrat,
I wouldn’t mind seeing the Republican Party follow this
advice to disaster in 2010 and 2012, but I’ll still offer some
unsolicited advice. When what you’re offering fails horribly
twice in a row, don’t just say it louder. Do something
different.

Zeke Webster ’09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @aavidson.edu.
