16

IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 2, 2008

‘Lefty’ offers fascinating historical insight

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Beginning April 2 in Duke Family
Performance Hall, members of the Davidson
theatre community will showcase their tal-
ents in the play “Waiting for Lefty,” directed
by Sharon Green. Penned by Clifford Odets
in 1935, the play was first performed by New
York’s Group Theater. In the same year, it
continued the Group’s focus on socially and
politically provocative pieces.

The plot centers around a group of New
York City cab drivers planning to stage a
strike. Lefty, the title character, is the taxi
group’s elected chairman, and the cabbies
anxiously await his appearance. In the play,
Odets portrays the working man as the hero,
and consequently, the ruling upper class as
the self-satisfied, unscrupulous enemy.
Throughout “Lefty,” the taxi drivers try to
raise the spirits of their fellow workers to
unite and fight for higher wages and better
working conditions.

The one-hour performance consists of
seven individual vignettes; each scene is
comprised of its own story line and charac-
ters, lending the play a rich variety of actors
and actresses and a fast-paced appeal. As
each scene ends, the stage lights extinguish,
giving the audience time to reflect on the
previous scene and to prepare for the upcom-

By Suzie ECKL
Editor-in-Chief

That cutie-patootie Shia LaBeouf has
grown up. Not only will he sport slicked-
back hair, a throwback leather jacket and a
little scruff on the cheeks in the upcoming
“Indiana Jones and the. Kingdom of the
Crystal Skull,” but he has also recently
excelled in starring roles, even if his charac-
ters haven’t graduated from high school yet.
Really, one of the only good things to come
out of wanna-be thriller “Disturbia” is Shia’s
portrayal of Kale, a likeable non-conformist
of the juvenile felon variety. The term

“felon” may be an over exaggeration. Kale:

merely decks his Spanish teacher during
class after the cabrén irreverently mentions
Kale’s dead father, but that’s enough to war-
rant a three-month house arrest in the heart
of soccer-mom suburbia.

And thus, the at-times-riveting and at-
times-lackluster Generation Y retelling of
Hitchcock’s “Rear Window” commences.

While LaBeouf does the best he can with
what he’s given-and certainly shines in the
process-the problem with “Disturbia”
resides in the shallow plotline, which seems
as much driven by iPods and Xbox Live as it
does by actual content. Director DJ Caruso
and screenwriting duo Christopher B.
Landon and Carl Ellsworth attempt depth
with their introductory scenes far from
fenced lawns and chlorinated swimming
pools. There, father and son bond over a
weekend of fly fishing; LaBeouf quickly
establishes the smart-aleck personality he
plays so well while Dad charms the audience
with his patient and sentimental conversa-
tion. People marked by such overt benevo-
lence never fare well in films with titles like
“Disturbia,” so it really should come as no
surprise that Daddo kicks the can by minute
number five in a frighteningly realistic car
crash.

Though not necessarily an unpleasant sur-
prise, the hyperrealism of these first scenes
do not correspond with the rest of the film,
which grows increasingly less plausible with

every misstep. Kale’s father’s death ends up
working more as a prop—a way to rationalize
our cheeky hero’s popping of Sefior
Bonehead and the ensuing house arrest-than
as the catalyst for any kind of character
development whatsoever. Kale blows off the
grieving process completely, taking a single,
distraught look into his father’s empty office
in one scene, and then (10 movie minutes
later) practically moving into the workspace
in order to get the best view of Ashley (Sarah
Roemer), the new girl next door.

For Caruso and Co., the sorrowful, strings-
driven score that accompanies the office
might substitute for actual grief, but the audi.
ence knows better; the film crew unwisely
glosses over what could have been the film’s
driving force. The treatment of mother-
(Carrie-Anne Moss)-and-son estrangement
is handled more skillfully, but only just so;
the conflict is relegated to just a few pointed
looks, a “you’re breaking my heart,” and the
overdramatic cutting of a television electri-
cal cord to put an end to non-stop TV view-
ing. It might as well have been the snapping
of an umbilical cord for all the attention

oe is

‘Disturbia’ is available through the stude

nt Union’s movie rental service

Suzanne Lenz ’09 and Josh Carson 09 play leading roles in the play.

LaBeouf shines in not-so-disturbing

Mama Kale paid her son throughout the rest
of the film.

The parental relationships in Caruso’s
work yield to the relationship between Kale
and sexy, Kate Hudson look-alike Ashley,
which, though it claims more screen time,
also succumbs to underdevelopment. While
Kale has a detector attached to his leg and
cannot venture more than 100 feet from the
modem in his kitchen, Ashley freely roams
about the neighborhood and does her share
of neighborhood spying. The two seem an
unlikely pair (though not as unlikely as the,
quite frankly, ridiculous coupling of Megan
Fox and LaBeouf in “Transformers”), and
when Kale reveals his complete attention to
every detail of Ashley’s daily habits, even
Ashley admits that his romantic outburst
might be the creepiest thing she’s ever heard.
But hey, it seems that even peeping toms can
score a chick every once and a while. (Just
ask George McFly).

As in “Disturbia’s” predecessor “Rear
Window,” Kale is exactly that: a peeping
tom, a voyeur, a young man wielding binoc-
ulars and a (video)camera who spies on the

—

Pia

“Fi

ing vignette.

The cab drivers, remain present through-
out the scenes and add coherence and focus
to what might otherwise be a very disjointed
plot. In order to assist in the continuity, they
stay onstage under dim light, responding to
the other scenes played out before them. By
writing this play, Odets emerged as not only
a celebrated agit-prop playwright but also a
revolutionary theatrical artist, placing his
actors in the audience at various moments,
thus engaging the audience in the play’s
action.

Though each scene consists of different
characters and plots, constant themes arise,
creating a continuous story. Due to the play’s
setting during the Great Depression, the
majority of “Lefty” addresses the social and
economic issues surrounding individuals and
families during that time. For example, one
couple is so stricken by poverty that they
cannot even feed their children. Also dis-
cussed are many social difficulties of the
Great Depression such as finding work and
maintaining strained relationships.

For a quick, yet insightful look into anoth-
er era, do not miss “Waiting for Lefty.” The
shows runs April 2-5. Wednesday and
Thursday curtain is at 7:30 p.m. Friday and
Saturday viewings start at 8 p.m., while
Sunday begins at 2 p.m. Student tickets are
$6 and can be purchased in the Union.

‘Disturbia’

neighbors and believes he has discovered a
serial killer. As the tagline states, “every
killer lives next door to someone,” and in
this instance David Morse (that annoying
detective Michael Tritter from TV’s
“House”; much better in “The Green Mile”)
portrays killer Robert Turner in a sufficient-
ly creepy yet somewhat unremarkable fash-
ion.

The parallels between the two films list
into the dozens, but the characters in
“Disturbia” have greater physical range.
With greater frequency, Ashley, best friend
Ronnie (Aaron Yoo), and even Kale cross
over into the outside world, journeying to the
supermarket, a parking garage, Turner’s car
and then his home (on several occasions).

The greater scope comes at a high price.
Consider the opening pan of “Rear
Window,” one that swoops over the two-
dimensional apartment complex, the film’s
sole setting, and immediately familiarizes
the viewer with the location of each and
every character. The three-dimensionality of
Kale’s house, as well as the character’s abil-
ity to leave the neighborhood, renders such a
pan and familiarity impossible. Kale must
often rely on off-site cameras and cell
phones to fill in the gaps, further emphasiz-
ing the technology that panders to a youthful
audience and perhaps even dumbing down
an already uninspired plot.

The film’s finale intensifies both thrills
and chills (rotting, red-headed corpses, any-
one?), but the filmmakers only sometimes
hit the mark. They adroitly execute chase
scenes within and between houses, yet
Caruso loses control with the self-indulgent
secret gross pit of horror beneath Turner’s
home. The audience can forgive the implau-
sibilities surrounding most of the plot up to
this point, but a multi-story, labyrinthine
complex of dead women beneath suburbia is
laughable.

Sterile, steel-tool populated laboratory:
check. Rotting, dusty, wooden rooms: check.
Dead women floating in a subterranean pool,
hanging out in plastic bags and chilling in

See ‘Disturbia’, page 14
