THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CLINT SMITH
Staff Writer

Many students, faculty members and citi-
zens of the Town of Davidson share a great
appreciation for the charming college town
in which they live, but they are not blind to
room for improvement.

The aim of the ““What’s going on down the
road?” symposium last Thursday night was
to unite citizens of the Davidson community
and members of Davidson College so that
Satisfaction, grievances and concems could
be vocalized.

One of the overarching questions asked at
the symposium included whether the town
and college are working as a unified front to
ensure the well-being of all community
members.

President Tom Ross, Davidson Mayor
John Woods, Cornelius mayor Gary T. Knox,
Chief of Campus Police Fountain Walker,
and countless other community leaders were
present in an effort to answer this question.

“The purpose fof the symposium] was to
motivate folks to network and work together
to make our community a better place,” SGA
Executive Board Chair Darrell Scott °10
said.

The program began with a 15-minute doc-
umentary by Austin Bell ’10 that showed the
development going on in and around the
Town of Davidson. Town Planning Director
Khris Krider gave a tour of Davidson in the
documentary, showing examples of expan-
sion and growth.

New townhouses and incoming businesses
were the primary focus of the video. Bell fin-
ished the documentary by interviewing

David Boraks, the editor of
“Davidsonnews.net,” regarding the develop-
ment.

The nature of the question-and-answer
session following the casual interviews was

.
a
7

Bete ei

BOSTON:
UNIVERSITY
SUMMER TERM

NEws
Davidson community looks ‘Down the Road’

very frank and open, leading to a progres-
sively more negative conversation as the
symposium progressed.

Several community members articulated
their concern that to many passers-by,
Davidson may seem like a quaint college
utopia, but there remains a forgotten commu-
nity on “the other side of tracks.”

The economic gap between the wealthy
and the poor in Davidson is continuing to
grow at a discouraging rate.

Lenny McAllister ’02 said that the town’s
focus should be placed on teachers expecting
more of the African-American and Hispanic
children in the classroom.

McAllister explained that children grow

up expecting less of them because their
teachers, and even their parents, hold them to
lower standards. While McAllister did not
deny acknowledgment of the community
service that Davidson students participate in,
he maintained that more could always be
done. :
“To whom much is given, much is
required,” McAllister said, urging Davidson
students to get out and do more. Part of this
suggestion involved the idea of a mentoring
program so that underprivileged kids who
aspire to attend Davidson College instead of
cutting its grass, cooking its food and clean-
ing its hallways.

President Ross agreed that the future of the
town’s children is important, but pointed out
that the new no-loan policy, The Davidson
Trust, is a great stride in the right direction.
The policy replaces all student loans with
grants in need-based financial aid packages.

Another topic that dominated the sympo-
sium is the constant traffic congestion that
plagues Davidson. Students, faculty and
community members expressed their dissat-
isfation with the continuous construction,
traffic circles and one-lane roads.

Leaders pointed out that while the con-

struction is a temporary headache, it will
ultimately solve the long-term traffic prob-
lem and make transportation in Davidson
easier.

A woman who lives next to the campus
articulated her concern regarding students’
attentiveness to the environment. She is dis-
gusted each weekend by the plethora of beer
cans that line her walkway.

The resident understands that it is impossi-
ble to eradicate the drinking culture from the
campus, but she believes that if even one-
third of the beer cans thrown away each
weekend were recycled, it would make a sig-
nificant difference in the outflow of garbage
from the town.

As the climate of the symposium became
progressively more negative, one elderly
woman who had moved to Davidson from
Birmingham, Ala. in 1961 pointed out that
we should not forget all the wonderful things
that have taken place in this town. The col-

At the symposium this past Thursday, town residents and college members shared

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008 3

lege’s esteemed reputation, the community
service offered by residents and students and
family-friendly environment that Davidson
provides should make residents and students
proud of where they live.

“We often get stuck in this romanticized
image of Davidson, and while it is a great
place, I think that it is vital to maintain an
honest perspective on the problems that exist
so that they can ultimately be eradicated,”
SGA President Chris Burton ’08 said.

More discussion followed on issues
including the loca! animal shelter, the fire
department and Ada Jenkins Center. Bell,
producer of “The Davidson Show,” video-
taped the entire program and has made it
available to students via The Crier.

“The discussion was a giant step toward
strengthening the college’s relationship with
the town,” Scott said. “It was encouraging to
hear individuals voice their concerns and
have constructive feedback from leaders.”

their grievances regarding development, community welfare and the Davidson
environment, leading to a constructive discussion on solutions to the problems.

Earn 10 academic credits
in 12 weeks. You choose

two courses, and we'll
arrange your internship.

Areas of Study:

« Arts and Culture
¢ Business and Management
¢ Film and Media Studies
« Graphic and Web Design

« International Studies
¢ Politics and Public Policy
¢ Psychology and Social Policy
« Self-Designed Track

APPLY BY MAY 2, 2008

www.bu.edu/summer/internship
617-353-0556

