2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

‘This ain’t no Vaudeville!’

Nina MACE
News Editor

Last Sunday, Dr. Michael Bertrand,
Assistant Professor of History at Tennessee
State University, gave the spring Kendrick
K. Kelley lecture, entitled, “This Ain’t No
Vaudeville!: Popular Music, the Civil Rights
Struggle, and the 1956 Assault of Nat King
Cole.”

The title came from the remarks of Judge
Carter in a 1956 Alabama courtroom. Martin
Luther King, Jr. was on trial, and the audi-
ence in the courtroom was predominantly
black. The judge entered declaring, “This
ain’t no vaudeville!” intending to silence the
crowd.

His insinuation was that serious venues
should be far removed from the more incon-
sequential theatres. Popular culture didn’t
matter.

Bertrand said that instead the Civil Rights
movement is open to novel interpretations
and directions. A new climate driven by pop-
ular culture was emerging: the “Rock and
Roll Revolution,” emerged nearly concur-
rently with the Civil Rights Movement.

Bertrand said popular culture needs to be
examined as a part of history, rather than
drawing a line between serious and inconse-
quential events. “Complicating the past is a
good thing,” Bertrand said. “That is what
historians who do not write textbooks or pro-
duce television documentaries do.”

A new racial climate, driven by popular
culture develpoed. Bertrand identified this
change as springing from the emergence of
black radio programming after World War II.

During the time of the Civil Rights
Movement, Bertrand said, the popularity of
rhythm and blues with white teenagers was
making white supremacists uncomfortable.
However, campaigns to ban it ultimately

re Ross, from page I

* places great value on presidential atten- «
dance at almost every event you can imag-
ine, from sports to theatre productions to

religious events. While it. is of course:
impossible to, fulfill his duties as a presi- «:,

_ dent as well as meet the high demand for
his presence, he. feels. this tradition is
important and it is “not the right thing for.

this place to change that,” despite the fact.
that most. other schools. would never #

expect to see their presidents at a volley-

ball game on a Tuesday night. Ross very »

humbly expressed gratitude that he com-
mitted “no huge mistakes.” ;

_, the Davidson lifestyle was affected greatly
_ © by the Davidson Bubble: Ross admitted to:

: The basketball season’s success brought
media attention to Davidson the like of
_which has never been experienced on this
small campus. Ross felt that his adminis-

tration was “prepared and well-positioned

_to take advantage of publicity accompany-

_ ing the basketball season” and made sure
that the nation realized that Davidson. is
“more than just a Cinderella story.’

= Instead, he focused on staying on the mes-
sage of Davidson’ s excellence j in n not Only °

NEws

failed because the momentum had begun .
years before.

In one instance, a black disc jockey was
playing music at a sock hop for approximate-
ly 500 white teenagers. The KKK gathered
outside the auditorium, demanding that the
students surrendered the dise jockey to them.
Instead, some of the students left the gym
and fought with the Klan members, allowing
the disc jockey to leave unscathed.

In 1956, Judge Carter and fellow white
supremacists were getting nowhere in ban-
ning black music. They developed a plan to
wreak havoc at a concert where black musi-
cians were playing to a white audience. The
wanted to get white audience members to
join them in a riot.

In April of that year, Nat King Cole was
playing with an integrated band for an all-
white audience. After the third song a voice
yelling racial slurs came from the back of the
auditorium.

Five white men came on stage and tackled
Cole, who was unable to see because of the
bright lights in the theatre. The band, located
behind a curtain so the audience would not
see they were integrated, continued playing,
oblivious.

Cole hit his head and was knocked uncon-
scious. One of the five men took the micro-
phone, hoping to insight a riot. None of the
other audience members joined them.

After the five men were arrested in front of
a booing audience, Cole arose and the crowd
cheered.

Bertrand said, however, that it equally
important to note what the audience did not
do as significant. No one got up to help stop
the attack.

Just as in this instance, Bertrand said his-
torians need to stop drawing lines between

Frolics 9 from page 1

“every other person there was drunk. The
food could not have tasted better. *:

My favorite moment of the night. was

when a girl was made into a living sculp-

ture after she passed out on the table and ;
people draped paper napkins and saltshak-.

ers over her unresponsive body.”
A Commons staff member woke sculp-

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

ture girl up shortly after the artful presenta-
tion. She then proceeded to run up the stairs
in Commons, full of frolicking vigor, and
made a victorious wave from the top floor.
In the aftermath of Spring Frolies, we can

only reflect. oe

*. Now that the mid-week stress load has
piled up, students are pulling all- nighters
for entirely different reasons. Cees

Towing policies create
stress for students

BRIAN MORAN
Staff Writer

Campus police towed several student
vehicles to an off-campus location from the
Alvarez College Union parking lot in prepa-
ration for an April 10 Barack Obama cam-
paign event featuring Kansas Gov. Kathleen
Sebelius.

The vehicles were towed after police
requested via e-mail that students clear the
lot. Security concerns necessitated removal
of the vehicles, an aberration from typical
towing practices, according to Campus
Police Chief Fountain Walker.

“That was an anomaly,” Walker said.
While requests to move vehicles in advance
of campus events are common, the police do
not typically tow those who fail to move
their cars. Additionally, students are normal-
ly given a longer window of time to comply
than the 14-hour gap given in preparation of
Sebelius’ speech.

Walker noted that Campus Police do not
have to warn students before towing, adding
that officers often search for students in their
dorm rooms before towing a vehicle.

Students receive a pamphlet outlining cam-
pus parking regulations upon registering
their vehicle with Campus Police.

There are 1,882 student parking spaces on
campus, with an additional 399 designated
for faculty and staff, 35 for visitors, 35 for
handicapped priority and twelve for emer-
gency services.

That vehicles were moved to an off-cam-
pus site in connection with the Sebelius
event was also an abnormality, as cars are
normally towed to the Baker Sports lot.

“There were a number of simultaneous
events that complicated our access to Baker
Sports,” Walker said, pointing out that the
College Health Fair was also taking place in
the Union that afternoon. “I take the hit for
that. We never want to force people to incur
debt in recovering their cars from off-cam-
pus.”

Walker suggested that early notification to
Campus police regarding events of this
nature will help alleviate similar situations.

“TJ do appreciate that the student body is so
helpful in making events go smoothly,” he
said. “I realize having to move your car can
be a pain.”

_@eteflections. on the year, Ross. assured us

events in popular culture and more “serious”
events.

“sports but. also academics, remaining on
track with the strengths the college wanted —
to project. “Se
His focus on becoming a more sustain- =
able campus will continue in the coming
years. Ross hopes that we will be able to’
produce a significant amount of our own
energy needs while pushing to tackle alter-
native energy. Just last week, for example,
“Ross. approved. a new composting plan
involving Commons, the Union Café. and
the Wildcat Den, which will produce
enough compost. to eliminate Davidson’s
purchase from outside sources. Along with
such organizations as. the . Presidents’.
Climate Committee, Ross’s push for the:
College to become more sustainable cer-:
. tainly will continue. Other long term plans
“are premature at this point, since we are in
the middle of an extensive strategic assess-;
ment. bate s BP yy,
te Ross spoke about his adjustment process
-that improved over the course of the year.
- As anyone would expect, his adjustment to

feeling disconnected with the “outside
world,” while also praising the community
"- as “‘a great intellectual environment to live:
in” He also reflected on how busy his job
-is— weekday or weekend, Ross constantly

attends campus, community and alumni
“events and travels around the nation. to
“maintain erucial alumni relations, Ross
‘also attested that the job offer “eame as a
“surprise” and that while he intellectually’:

prepared himself, he didn’t truly prepare
“ himself emotionally. Despite these honest

that he is feeling much more comfortable |
now and said, “I’m glad I came.”

An almost unanimous student body con-
sensus at the end of last year was that ©

2“ Bobby Vagt’s shoes would be pretty hard

~ to fill. This year, Tom Ross has proven it’s...
not about filling someone else’ S shoes, but
filling | his own,

Pe.

| MPLS SEO vente foes.

-

04/23/2008 12:10 a.m. Suspicious Person 200 D Rd.

On Wednesday, April 23, an officer was informed of a black male wearing a black
sweatshirt trying to take a bike from Chambers. The complainant stated that he did not
get a good look at the person, but when he yelled at the subject the men dropped the bike
and took off. The complainant advised that the subject was already on a bike when he
tried to take another one. The officer circled the area and was unable to locate the sub-

ject.

04/26/2008 12:55 a.m. Fire 104 Nelson Ln.

On Saturday , April 26, an officer was informed by another officer that the fire alarm
was going off at PiKA House, 104 Nelson Ln. Davidson Fire arrived, checked the build-
ing, and reset the alarm. A firefighter advised that there was the smell of cigarettes in the
basement, but they were unsure as to what actually set off the alarm.

04/26/2008 7:23 am. Crime Prevention 109 Dormitory Dr.

On Saturday, April 26, an officer conducted a foot patrol of the following areas:
Cannon Dorm, Watts Dorm and Sentelle Dorm. The officer observed a window was
removed from the casing and left sitting on the floor on the second floor of Cannon. The
window was not broken, it appears that it was simply removed by an unknown person.
Officer Combs observed no suspicious activity or damage, other than the window in
Cannon Dorm.

04/26/2008 8:44 p.m. Suspicious Persons 111 Patterson Ct Cir.

On Saturday April 26, an officer was contacted via cell phone in reference to three sub-
jects walking around the sophomore apartments. The officer located the subjects in Irwin
Dorm. The subjects advised that they were there visiting a friend. The officer informed
the subjects that Davidson College is private property and if they are not escorted by the
student then they had to leave. The subjects left without incident. The subjects did not
have any identification on them at the time the officer spoke with them.

04/28/2008 11:55 p.m.

Crime Prevention 103 Dormitory Dr.

ing areas: Little Dorm, Watts Dorm, Cannon Dorm and Sentelle Dorm. During the offi-
cers’ walk-through of Sentelle, the first floor water fountain was found to be leaking onto
the floor. The officer contacted the Physical Plant employee on call, made him aware of
the situation and requested that he attempt to repair the fountain. The officer used the
mop and bucket, from the mens’ room and removed approximately five gallons of water »
from the floor. The officer left the dorm after the physical plant employee arrived on
scene. No other damages or unusual activities were “observed”.

On Monday, April 28, an officer conducted foot patrol around and within the follow-

