2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

100 percent

PETER HANSEL
Environmental Intern

Duke Dormitory became the first building
on campus to be LEED Certified on Thurs-
day. LEED is a prestigious award given by
the United States Green Building Council
and stands for “Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design.”

The certification is difficult to obtain and
requires that the structure meet a number of
criteria in environmental sustainability.

Duke is also the first LEED Certified
building for the town of Davidson and be-
comes one of only 43 in the greater Charlotte
area.

President Ross spoke at the award cere-
mony citing the certification as an important
achievement for Davidson College, especial-
ly during the Year of Sustainability. “This
is an exciting day for us, indeed,” Ross said.
“Our goal is to become carbon neutral on
campus, and this is a big step in that direc-
tion.”

David Holthauser, Director of Facilities
Management for Davidson College, took on
the challenge of making Duke Dormitory
more energy efficient and sustainable during
the renovation of Duke in 2006-2007. Duke
meets 26 of the 69 criteria points required for
a U.S. Green Building making it the first lev-
el “certified” out of four levels. The levels
are Certified, Silver, Gold, and Platinum.

The criteria points take into account
the building site, water efficiency, en-
ergy use, building materials, indoor en-
vironmental quality and innovation.

Thursday in Duke Dormitory.

Who’s Who at Davidson?

Because of their outstanding record of
service, leadership and scholarship the
following students were selected by faculty,
staff and fellow students as members of
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges.

2008/2009:

Brian Peter Aoyama
Cameron Scott Barr
Richmond Paul Blake
Emily Hodgdon Cannon
Kelli Jane Carroll
Felipe Nicolas Cisneros
Emanuel Larry Leggett Clark
Lazetta Ashley Crawford
Katharine Holden Currie
Angelina Elizabeth Darrisaw
William Cain DeLoache
Suzanne Elizabeth Eckl
Sarah Barnes Filipski
Robert Lord Galloway
Jennifer Nicole Geyer
Andrew Jason Gorang
Hugh Davis Greene
Ebony Monique Harley

News

LEED certified

Duke uses 23 percent less water than average
due to low-flush toilets. Seventy-five percent
of the roofing reflects heat which reduces
air-conditioning costs. Thrity-one percent of
the building was built using recycled materi-
als. Eighty percent of the waste generated in
the construction/renovation was recycled or
reused. In addition, the building contains a
central air system, low-VOC paints and air
quality monitors.

“This is an exciting day for
us. Our goal is to become
carbon neutral on campus,
and this is a big step in that
direction.”
-President Tom Ross

Holthauser is proud of this accomplish-
ment and is optimistic about future con-
struction projects on campus. He stated that
Duke Dormitory has opened the door for fur-
ther. projects. Furthermore, President Ross
stressed that the College will require that all
future renovation or building projects to be
LEED certified and hopes that they will meet
“Silver” qualifications.

Davidson is currently applying for two
additional LEED certifications for campus
buildings. The Admissions building and
Cunningham Fine Arts building are expected
to meet LEED Certified qualifications.

Stephen James Kalin
Utsha Genevieve Khatri
Carolyn Susan Klaasen
Sara Katherine Knicely

Robert Harrison Lassiter

Andrew O. Lovedale

Neely Elizabeth Meeks
Maria Jose Mejia
Rebecca Grace Morton
Maxime Paulhus Gosselin
Chieko Takai Phillips
Audrey Christine Pomeroy
Mercedes L. Robinson
Stephen Patrick Rossiter
Darell Singleterry, Jr.
Anna Marie Smith
Joseph Kwame Som-Pimpong
Sally Wickham Stephenson
Anne Prescott Stevens
Paul Archibald Stroup, IV
Jaclyn Claire Tan
Vaidehi M. Trivedi
Colby Charles Uptegraft
Benjamin Prime Van Dyke
Jessica Ayana Walker
Hugh Marshall Worsham III
Cary Vernon Wright

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

iy £ di spegiobs
Santa Claus repelled down the side of Chambers this past Monday, making his
grand appearance at the Davidson College Christmas Party.

FRANCISCO FIALLO

Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday,
the Student Government Association (SGA)
heard from Donny Edwards, Associate Di-
rector of Residence Life, about new changes
made to the housing lottery.

The Residence Life Office (RLO) has
made several changes to streamline the pro-
cess, and focus more efficient allocations of
off-campus housing and Martin Court apart-
ments. Edwards also talked about efforts
to cope with a serious housing shortage ex-
pected as students return from study abroad
programs.

The biggest problem RLO was trying to
avoid involved giving Martin Court apart-
ment to seniors who were trying to get off-
campus housing. Students who successfully
obtained off campus housing then abandoned
those apartments, which then went to groups
that were on a waiting list. This method ef-
fectively penalizes groups that fail to get
apartments and settle for other on-campus
housing, and unfairly rewards groups with
low lottery numbers.

In the changed housing timeline, off-
campus permission is given in two rounds.
The first round will contain most of the 75-
100 housing slots, and is meant for students
who wish to have off-campus housing over
a Martin Court apartment. The second round
will occur after senior apartments have been
assigned and is targeted towards people who
prefer Martin Court over off-campus. Round
two will contain fewer slots, and any people
who fail to receive permission will be placed
on a waiting list and required to select on-
campus housing.

Edwards also talked about the anticipated
housing shortage next semester. The crisis is
more severe for women: 121 female students
are returning to campus, but only 30 will be
leaving. For men, 72 are returning and 33 are
departing. Because some rooms on campus
are currently empty and some returning stu-
dents are choosing to live off-campus, RLO
is 28 women’s and 2 men’s beds short for the
spring semester. RLO plans to resolve the
shortage by moving students into college-
owned off-campus housing, turing the
lounge of Martin Court F into an apartment
and converting the basement of the college
Guest House into housing.

Senior Class Senator Richmond Blake
’09 asked if the students assigned these tem-
porary housing arrangements had been al-
lowed to seek off-campus housing. Edwards
responded by saying those students had yet
to be notified and that RLO would keep op-
tions open for those students.

Edwards also notified the SGA that RLO
was going to be making structural changes
to the housing lottery that would make se-
niority more of a factor in determining hous-
ing. There will now be a one-hundred point
buffer between the range of lottery numbers
awarded to each class. In addition, RLO has
begun investigating whether it can signifi-
cantly cut operating expenses by eliminating
or reducing phone service in the dorms. The
results of those inquiries should be available
early on in the next semester.

In other news, an effort to mitigate the
negative effects of grade deflation has stalled.
The initiative would give students the option
of attaching a cover sheet to copies of their
outgoing transcripts. The cover sheet would
contain a short description of the college’s
environment, the mean GPA and quartile
breakdowns, letting prospective employers
and graduate schools better evaluate appli-
cants.

The SGA had previously approved the
cover sheet, but meetings with the faculty’s
Educational Policy Committee (EPC) have
suspended it. According to SGA Academic
Policy Committee chair Colby Uptegraft ’09,
at least one faculty member was concerned
that Davidson’s mean GPA is thought to be
much lower than it is, with unfavorable re-
sults for students.

Senator Alex Hunger °09 is a senior
who hopes to work for a small art gallery
after graduation. She said that those galler-
ies would have zero expectations regarding
a “Davidson GPA,” and that without show-
ing her performance relative to her peers at
Davidson, her grades would seem sub par.
Hunger also pointed out that the addition of a
cover letter is entirely voluntary and students
who fear being penalized by it should simply
opt out.

The EPC will revisit the issue at its next
meeting. In the meantime students have the
option of attaching a class profile to their
transcripts. The profile contains the same
statistical information in the cover sheet, but
no descriptions about the college.
