2 THE DaviIpsONIAN

Exhale, from page 1

Well Being Natural Health showed students
the benefits of Classical Chinese Medicine,
administering acupuncture to those who
weren’t needle-shy.

Davidson’s Anusara Yoga instructor,
Kelly Gardner, offered multiple sessions of
Anusara Yoga and meditation/breathing.
“Anusara Yoga,” Gardner said, “ is care-
fully designed to develop strength, flexibility
and balance in the body ...while building a
positive environment, where we look for the
good in ourselves and in others.”

Students have the opportunity to take
Gardner’s Anusara classes throughout the
semester on either Tuesdays or Wednesdays
from 12:30 p.m. to 1:45 p.m. in the Sprinkle

News

dealing with your stress early,” Ringle said.

Exhale introduced alternative ways to
handle stress before the lab reports, papers,
and tests strike.

Though its early placement was preven-
tative, Gardner plans to repeat the event in
the future and said she “was thrilled with the
attendance at Exhale and will definitely do
it again.”

Stress may be unavoidable, but Exhale
showed that Davidson’s community has
many resources that make stress manageable
and allowed students to experience the ben-
efits of relaxation first-hand.

_ The message of Friday’s event was clear:
Don’t wait to exhale. Relax and breathe

now.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

—_

¥ “a

Open bar on weekends

Room.
Gardner explained that meditation and

“The begining of the se-
mester is the perfect time to
offer davidsonians healthy
and relaxing activities they
can incorperate in their busy
lives”
-Kelly Gardner

breathing are highly effective methods of
stress-release.

“The breath is a powerful tool for calm-
ing the mind, relaxing the body and invigo-
rating the life force for vitality and mental
clarity,” she said.

However, as the yoga classes and mas-
sages began on Friday morning, students had
only completed week two of the semester,
not yet showing the ragged appearance and
anxiety-ridden demeanor of the late-semes-
ter Davidson student. The organizers of the
event say the early placement was quite in-
tentional.

Gardner explained that they purposefully
scheduled the event “before typical patterns
of dealing with stress set in. The beginning
of the semester is the perfect time to offer
Davidsonians healthy and relaxing activities
they can incorporate in their busy lives.”

Georgia Ringle gave similar advice.
“Don’t wait for midterms and finals. Start

° - - a = »
A ®
=, ts wag ae e bs »

Students received complimentary
massages during Exhale

9/04/08 12:50 a.m. Near break-in at kitchen Outpost
On Thursday September 4, Sgt Vanzant received a call on the officer cell phone
in reference to a belligerent subject at the Outpost, 120 Patterson Ct Cir. Upon
arrival the officer spoke with Outpost Manager Allison Baxley who advised that
the subject was cursing at her and trying to come into the kitchen. Miss Baxley
stated that when the subject came up to get his food he did not have his ticket, and when
she asked him to go get his ticket he started yelling profanities at her. She stated that he
then tried to open the door to come into the kitchen to get his food. She stated that she
advised him not to open that door; he then started to curse her again and then tried to
open the door a second time. The officer spoke with the subject and he stated that he was
wrong in the way he acted and that he was just joking about trying to get into the kitchen.

9/04/08 12:30 am. Fireworks confiscated Knox Dorm
On Thursday September 4, while on foot patrol, Sgt Vanzant heard fireworks being shot
off near Irwin, Akers, and Knox Dorm. Upon arrival, the officer spoke with A/C Jennifer
Knox who advised that the noise rattled her windows. The officer and A/C Knox walked
around, spoke with several students who advised that they did not see anything. While
walking on the first floor a room, belonging to Davidson College students, was left open.
The officer and A/C Knox looked inside and observed several open beer cans and types of
fireworks. There was no one in the room and no one on the hall knew where the residents
were. A/C Knox then confiscated the fireworks.

9/05/08 9:33 a.m. Student caught on railing Flowe
On Friday, September 05, 2008 at 2133 hours, Sgt. Tim Ramsey received a call from Area
coordinator, Jennifer Knox. Ms. Knox advised that one of her building managers reported
seeing a student climbing on the outside railing at Flowe. On arrival, officers talked with a
small group gathered outside. Davidson student admitted that he was the person climbing
on the outside railing. He reassured officers that he would not attempt it a second time.

9/05/08 9:00 a.m. Alleged PIKA House break-in PIKA House
On Friday, September 05, Sgt. Tim Ramsey received a call advising that a white male
was attempting to gain entry into PIKA House threw a window. On arrival, Sgt. Ramsey
checked the house; the kitchen door was unlocked, the building was unoccupied.

ae

FRANCISCO FIALLO -
Staff Writer

This week’s SGA meeting was focused
on efforts to improve student life, with the
agenda overshadowed by one announcement:
the 900 Room will operate as a bar on Friday

and Saturday evenings, beginning with the _

weekend following First Night Down.

SGA President Davis Greene ’09 made
thé announcement in an effort to provide
more public spaces for the consumption of
alcohol.

The as-yet-unnamed bar is intended to
serve as an alternative to Patterson Court
in providing a place where students of legal
drinking age can purchase and consume al-
cohol.

To that end, more comfortable furniture
will be added to the 900 Room when it oper-
ates as a bar, giving students a quiet place to
sit and talk as they drink.

The SGA also hopes that the bar will
serve as a venue for live music. Unlike 21-
year-old night events, those under 21 years of
age wilt be allowed into the 900 Room; the
SGA is hoping to add non-alcoholic bever-
ages to the menu as an accommodation.

Responses from SGA members tended to
be positive, though some had concerns over
the practical issues of running a bar on cam-
pus. Senator Andy Dunn ’10 raised the issue
of over-consumption of alcohol, and Greene
replied that risk mangers would be employed
to make sure both that patrons would not be
over-served and that underage individuals
did not drink.

Cameron Barr ’09 asked about the antici-
pated profitability of the bar, and what would
happen to any revenues. Greene pointed out
that when the bar operates during 21-year-
old nights, it breaks even, and that it was
probably going to operate at a loss. He also

#

Enjoy talking to people |
about issues going on

mentioned that the college’s Union Director,
William Brown ’70, intends to use their bud-
get to cover the anticipated deficit.

During its meeting the SGA also sought
to drum up enthusiasm for the Davidson foot-
ball team’s first home game, which will be
on Sat. Sept. 27. Athletic Policy Committee
chair Stephen Pierce 710 hopes to increase
attendance at games by encouraging more
tailgating from the student body and plans to
sponsor a barbecue for that game.

The SGA meeting also included a review
of the academic calendar for the 2011-2012
year. Senators proposed adding multiple
reading days to the calendar, and they voiced .
an interest in pushing spring break to later in
the semester, bringing the vacation closer to
that of most colleges and universities.

Dean of Students Tom Shandley was
present at the meeting and responded by say-
ing that calendar decisions were made by the
Faculty Executive Committee, which con-
sists of elected faculty members and Presi-
dent Tom Ross.

He also discussed the difficulties involved
in rescheduling the break: in order to keep
spring break in the middle of the semester, it
would be necessary to push back the begin-
ning of the semester.

Unfortunately, this would cause the first
Monday of the semester to fall on Martin Lu-
ther King Jr. day, when no classes are held.
As a result, students might not return until
that Monday, which could negatively im-
pact programming and service opportunities
meant to honor Dr. King.

Last week’s resolution introducing the
appointed position of Publicity Officer was
passed unanimously, though the position will
remain unpaid pending approval of the requi-
site funds from the Activities Tax Council.

around campus?
Interested in a career in
journalism?

Write

for the

Davidsonian!

Contact sueckle for more information

am 952% 2h, - Ciba:
