10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CCPC | | | |

| Zane

Across 15. Verdi opera
1. Plug a river 16. “It’s __ real!”
6. Gator’s cousin 17. Graduation advice
10. Chances, to a gambler 20. Back, at sea
14. — Entertain 21. Pennsylvania city

“i = *
>

1. What adjective, meaning quick witted or volatile, comes from the
name of a swift messanger god?
2.In 1958, what did Crayola change the name of its Prussian blue
crayn to?
3. What beer was originally named Siglo XX in 1897 by Wilhelm
Hasse of the Moctezuma Brewery?
4. What is often used to make both mixed drinks and fake blood?
5. What is Dakota Fanning’s younger sister’s name?
6. Which actor did NOT appear in the film adaptation of S.E. Hinton’s
novel “The Outsiders?” A.Tom Cruise B. Rob Lowe C. Patrick
Dempsey D. Patrick Swayze
7. Who was the first U.S. president to use an informal version of his
first name?
8. What kind of tree gets struck by lightning most often?
9. What is the longest running soap opera in broadcast history?
10. What is Barbie’s full name?
11. What famous Notre Dame football legend’s body was recently
exhumed in order to obtain DNA to find out if he had fathered a child
out of wedlock?
12. What is the first man-made space probe to exit the solar system?
13. What is the name of President Tom Ross’ golden retriever?
14. How many vertebrae make up the human spine?
1S. How much caffeine is in an average cup of coffee (in milligrams)?
16. How many planets have rings? Can you name them?
17. Actor Tony Curtis compared kissing Marilyn Monroe with kissing
which political figure?
18. For which award-winning movie were midgets hired in order to
give the final scene an illusion of depth?
19, What was the controversy with the opening scenes of Star Wars: A
New Hope?
20. Who was the first African actor/actress to win an Academy
Award?
21. Which country’s soccer team was the first to win the World Cup?
22. What are absent from Las Vegas casinos?
23. What is the world’s longest mountain range?
24. Who was the winning contestant on the first “Survivor” series?
25. On the eastern shores of what continent can you find the “Gold
Coast?”

Answers on page 14

PROCRASTINATION

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30, 2008

crossword C “ormer

22. Western tribe 7. Age

23. Played again 8. Scent

25. Juicy juice 9. Vegas venue

27. Frosty 10. Star Wars nickname

30.  __ and don’ts 11. Coming-out

31. Non-alcoholic beverage 12. Greek triangle

32. No neatnik 13. Unkind look

34. Between ports 18. Foray

36. Net letters 19. Sowing machin

40. Graduation advice 24. Point guard pass, hopefully
43. Common sense? 26. Star in films, sometimes
44. Asterisk 27. Schools of thought

45. Snake eyes 28. Shut (up)

46. Brief bio. 29. Oxen’s harness

48. “Losing my religion” rock group 31. African adventure

50. Infomercials, e.g. 33. Under

51. Species scientist 35. Young newt

54. Dalai Lama land . 37. Tennis celeb Kournikova
56. | Lamb’s mother 38. Decorated a cake

57. Identity 39.  __ is more

59. Familiar with 41. White rat, e.g.

63. Graduation advice 42. Southernmost active volcano
66. Manages, with “out” 47. Sort of

67. Briefly unknown? 49. Mixes well

68. Boredom 51. Yield (to)

69. No longer working (abbr.) 52. Came to

70. Time long ago 53. Found a new tenant for
71. Funny woman Wanda 54. Male musical part

55. Microscopic

Down: 58 The flu, but worse
1 Baby’s first word 59. Dark and wet
2 Singer Tori 60. Not false
3. Pound hound ° 61. Elevator man
4. One who puts you in your place 64. Hallucinogen
5 Looked 65. Memphis to Nashville dir.
6

Web __ Answers on page 14

ae gp

: — ‘Memento ,-from P age 9° the reality of what occurs. The audience..
Now we » need to find him. receives only an extremely warped version
_» The chronology shuffle and the doubted ~ of the story, much of it told in recollections
information make coherence a struggle, yet” offered by a memory-defective protagonist
Nolan handles the challenge well. He scat--” who points out that “memories can be dis- 5
ters physical clues, like broken windows or ~-torted. They are just an interpretation,
cuts on his characters’ faces, throughout the they’re not a record, and they’ re inelevant
scenes, and as the’storyline progresses if you have the facts.” a
backwards, we. eventually see how all of : Just like Leonard, we struggle to discern ©
those things came to pass. not. only what is actually happening but:
© Doubtlessly, such an unlikely plot com-. also who to trust — our hero included.
bined with an unconventional approach to -“7 In a word, the film is confusing. And yes
chronology will encounter problems with. of course the chaos can be passed off as ©
realistic portrayal. é oo See 4 intentionally . didactic, but to what. end?
~ Agnoring the fact that Leonard miracu-- » Normally didacticism uses the appreciation.
usly.already knew the art of at-home tat- .. of a character’s state as a means of drawing
tooing, that he manages to escape arrest for <: out. empathy, but. why. sympathize. with
the numerous murders he has committed to- Leonard and his intentional | renegades .
innocent John G:s, that he happens to selec-” “ against the innocent?:: ey LEB
tively modify pre-accident memories, that ~~ Unless Nolan harbors ase secret agenda to,
Someone with so severé a mental affliction join the fight against short-term-memory..
would be free to live independently under “ 2 _ loss, this disarray of a movie may be noth
‘no medical supervision, that upon re-realiz~” ing more than symptomatic of a bad case of
ing he has the incapacity to form memories.” ’ self-importance, a simple display of artsy-
he never seems even remotely upset or con-:% ness for arstyness’ sake,
cemed, that if his self-purported problem i Perhaps a bit of arisy freshness should be -
that “he can’t remember to forget her’: awarded,: However,. if offering no moral.’
‘ever occurs to him, say,.to tattoo. ¢ “forget judgment, the film should at feast provide é
“hery.a ‘across. his forehead; ignoring’ “all. of enjoyment, and so taxing and infuriatin
“these. qualms, the story maintains a general process can hardly’ be classified as such,.
rence that often falls by the, wayside i in “ ~The supporting cast is limited and forge
table, the setting lacks variation of anythin;
2 buta seedy motel in a seedy:town with the;

better: served to picka different theater; at
ndom, upon his return rather than atten
get back into the plot..
‘Admittedly, the big-reveal at the film
ésa pretty effective-job of
g ‘together all the bits. and pieces.of the
film ina (you guessed it) shocking way, but’
‘dénouement seems an afterthought. The
otagonist: turns out to lack: any morals and
continues to. ill at random just to give his
Jife ‘purpose, ,and it is difficult to gauge the ,
fevel to which one ‘can assess the morality
‘of someone who in 20 minutes will fe reel
he’s ever done wrong: 2
/The- morality question becomes further
-muddied by our limited opportunity to grasp

‘and white’ to: color. with ‘the shaking of <
Polaroid—proves. detrimental, to, the film

ould do little to abate the nausea- -inducin;
mental i image of Nolan grinning like: a fo

dat last feel ashamed that we. were. goad
into believing the flashy 1 new tricks that

