THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 12, 2008

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Last Friday and Saturday night, Duke
Performance Hall was filled with dancing
and music as the Davidson College Dance
Ensemble put on their fall semester show. It
was the Ensemble’s 25" Anniversary and the
exhibition began with a tribute to the found-
er, Paulette Kuran Ashlin.

Ashlin ’86 founded the troupe in 1983,
and over the years, the troupe’s numbers have
grown from five students to nearly one-tenth
of the student population. This information
was projected on a large screen in center
stage accompanied by photos of the early
troupes, complete with unitards and pliés.
Friday night was particularly special because
Ashlin was able to be there and speak about
how the troupe began and how it has evolved
into what it is today.

A brief introduction from the president of
the Ensemble and the head of the technical
staff followed and revealed what an impor-
tant event this anniversary was to the cur-
rent ensemble and the school. Following the
speeches, the lights fell, the crowd became
silent and the show began!

I am not going to pretend to be an expert
of dance, and I will not attempt to analyze or
judge the styles of dance. But as far as my
untrained eye could tell, the dancers were
exquisite. The show was an hour and a half
of sheer talent that filled the auditorium and
impressed the audience.

The show began in complete darkness,
with only a few red lights held by dancers
illuminating the stage. Indian music filled the

Pe a

Dance Ensemble’s 25th performance last weekend provided student dancers and
choreographers with a creative outlet to display their talent.

hall and the dancers began to move in syn-
chronization to the beat of the ethnic music.

The unity of the dancers in each perfor-
mace proved to be quite impressive. It was
apparent how much time and effort had been
put into the performances.

Ensemble member and dancer in both
“Run It” and “IT got my FREAKUM DRESS
on to go OUT TONIGHT where I KISSED A
GIRL (and I liked it)” Erin Berry ’12 extend-
ed thanks to the choreographers who were
“amazing” and “very patient when [she]
couldn’t do the moves.”

The different styles of dance included tra-
ditional ballet, Salsa, Tango, Merengue, hip

‘Zack and Miri’ make

Mec Banks
Staff Writer

“I’m going to the movie about making a
porno.”

When asked about Friday evening plans
last week, my response raised a couple of
eyebrows. However, such a statement hardly
seems bizarre since braving the curiously ti-
tled new film “Zack and Miri Make a Porno,”
written and directed by Kevin Smith, whose
filmography also includes “Clerks,” “Jersey
Girl” and “Chasing Amy.”

Actor Seth Rogen plays Zack, a peculiar
and inventive, yet absurdly tactless, nean-
derthal dimwit. Zack stands in as a barista

t “Bean-N-Gone,” the film’s equivalent
of Starbucks. Zack has never made a move
on his drop-dead gorgeous, longtime friend
Miriam (Elizabeth Banks). This seems quite
remarkable because the two live together and
Miri has an odd tendency to get naked and
play dress-up in the living room.

Nonetheless, when unpaid bills cause the
electricity and heat to be turned off in their
rinky-dink Pittsburgh apartment, the platonic
roommates realized that they needed money.
Desperate times call for desperate measures.

Zach and Miri concoct a plan. And
what could be a more logical solution than
to shoot and market a film of you screwing
your childhood friend? That’s exactly the
epiphany Zack has after three beers, a bath-
room quickie with a married ex-classmate
and an encounter with Miri’s high school
crush Bobby. Bobby Long (Brandon Routh)
has recently moved to LA and hit it big (liter-
ally) in the adult film industry with his doting
porn-star boyfriend (Justin Long).

But this is only comedic foreplay for
Smith. The film’s most compelling fairytale
love story comes to a head when Zack and
Miri disregard the noble, tried-and-true pur-

a 7 . r

hop, modern, lyrical and step, all of which
were very expressive. Some seemed to con-
vey a romantic tension between the dancers,
others told tales of love and heartache, while
yet another told the story of an old western
saloon.

The ability of the dancers to express emo-
tions and tell stories was greatly enhanced by
the student designed costumes. These outfits
took much time and preparation, but hard
work clearly paid off.

For instance, the cultural costumes of the
Indian and the Spanish-inspired dances em-

See Dance, page 6

shows big
promise

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

While it might be easy to congratulate
yet another young female artist whose songs
display a prolix, carbon copy attempt at edgy
piano-based rock, do not be so hasty to sell
out Sarah Bareilles. Native Californian and
seasoned singer-pianist, she has recently
come into the long-overdue spotlight as one
of the better examples of wistful wordplay
and musical expertise we have seen in a
while.

Just 28 years old, Bareilles has already
composed some real gems of songs, start-
ing with her catchy, upbeat hit single “Love
Song,” which shares a style close to that of
Colbie Callait. This single has been featured -
on various daytime talk shows from “Good
Morning America” to Leno, as well as this
year’s romantic comedy “Made of Honor,”
starring Patrick Dempsy and Michelle Mon-
aghan.

Other breezy and memorable songs fea-
tured on her album “Little Voice” include
“Bottle it Up,” “One Sweet Love” and
“Fairytale.”

While Bareilles generally keeps a consis-
tant feel to her music, at times her style be-

See Bareilles, page 6

suit of sex and money and become disas-
trously disillusioned by traditional concepts
of love, romance and sleeping with the same
person until the end of time.

With “Zack and Miri,” Kevin Smith
wears his heart on the sleeve of the hand
he wipes with. The result is an emotionally
schizophrenic sexually-themed farce.

The lowbrow humor is not for the faint of
heart. This is not the kind of film you want
to treat your date to if you have intentions of
sneaking a kiss mid-movie or going out to
eat afterward. Trust me, you may lose your
appetite while watching this.

As a matter of fact, Jason Mewes goes
full frontal and my roommate and I were left
blinking in stunned silence.

a mistake

“Hey,” by The Pixies, one of the film’s
main musical tracks, does deliver, but the
accompanying collection of Live, Marcy’s
Playground, Primus and comparable flagrant
90’s rock bands is just as incongruous as the
film’s plot, still leaving something to be de-
sired.

“Zack and Miri” has both salacious hu-
mor and the sticky sap of a romantic comedy,
yet does not particularly excel at either.

Likewise, it is hard to ignore the direc-
tor’s curious obsession with feces, which
unfortunately transpires at “Zack and Miri’s”
expense.

No matter how terrible the economic cri-
sis becomes, let us hope that no one else has
to resort to making a porno.

Elizabeth Banks (left) and Seth Rogen (right) play Miri and Zack, ‘two roommates
who decide to film a porn movie to relieve their financial woes.
