2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Academics of rom page y has left majors from the Center for

-» that the information from all these groups *: Interdisciplinary Studies out in the cold. :
will be compiled and then discussed in - Students often wonder why Davidson does ;
June, when the “blueprint” for a plan of. not offer more variety in majors at the ”
vaction will be created for the College's « departmental level, which would allow
future curriculum. ”, “students to draw on the departmental
2"We would like ‘to see Davidson lead _ resources and clout that the Center cannot.
: itself i in a proactive way. We don’t wantto provide. #-. .
_ wait for things to happen to us, but to con- Denham .  empathizes with Center 2
sider the future and lead ourselves into. it.“ majors, but he doubts that creating more”
the way we want to go,” Ross said. «-eMajors would be beneficial to students. or.
Once the floor was opened up to stu- © the academic integrity of Davidson.
-dents, Lindsay Kallman 710 asked the .%%“Peer institutions, many of whom hav
question on everyone’s minds: .Where.* been more entrepreneurial with interdisc
would Ross like to see the College at the «: plinary. majors because of tradition and ©
», end of this process?” ’~ geography, don’t have. strength in those -
‘gel can’t really say, but the right way to majors,’ Denham said. “Labels on a tran--
steer this kind of process is to let it unfold, script should represent substance: it’s..a
let people’s ideas be heard and let. the © serious measure of consensus that a
_. process be inclusive,” said Ross. - Davidson what you see is what you get.”
: Ross’ ambiguous reply piqued the stu- 2 Denham would like to see more students
’ dents’ curiosity, but the President refused © pursue a major and a concentration, but in.
-to elaborate. : order to do so the school would have to =
«-“I fear people will close their mind and increase the number of faculty while cut-
~ only see certain alternatives if 1 voice my ¢ ting back on its current core requirements.
~ opinion too much,” Ross said. “-Uptegraft also asked the audience. for
One of the conclusions drawn by the their opinions regarding an email sent out: :
Strategie Assessment was the need for a _ last week showing that Davidson students,
larger menu of course offerings at -. in comparison with 35 peer institutions,
Davidson, which brought its traditional comes out with the 29th lowest average
core curriculum into question... ‘** . GPA. While many students can attest to
What ought to be the future of core _ the difficulty of earning A’s at Davidson, -
courses for liberal arts education? Is. it the existence of grade deflation here
time to rethink our focus on the Western remains a highly debated issue.
world?” Ross asked. “The information was gathered at. my
Dr. John Swallow, Professor“ of request because I believe we ought to.
Mathematics, and Dr.. Scott Denham, know what the facts are and I believe i in ,
Professor of German Studies and head of keeping good data,” Ross said.
the Center for Interdisciplinary Studies, Though Ross could not deny the find-_
represented the faculty. Dr. Denham and -: ings of the research, he is hesitant to accept
~ Dr.-Swallow were able to. elaborate on © that Davidson GPAs suffer from grade :
. what challenges professors will face at the - deflation.
departmental level i in curriculum changes. yous M raises some interesting questions for

2 A

, * grading scale compare to other schools’?
“= What. is our admission rate to law and :
»-Iedical school? What are the grade points
pad those schools who get in and what is

- admitted medical school students?”
.» Ross did provide food for thought, but
failed to appease the seniors present who
- expressed their frustration i in applying to
{graduate schools. © °°").
pSMave Tstarted an inquiry?. ‘Yes. Do I
‘know . the . answers?:zNo i i

Both Denham and Swallow agreed that
he departments currently work very. inde- ©
pendently and need to shift toward greater ©
collaboration if the curriculum is going to...
take on a different shape in the near future.”
The. traditional autonomy of depart
ments at Davidson has not. only, made: response to students.
cooperation amongst: them difficult, but..” mation doesn’t help, we need hard data,”
the exclusivity resulting from this divide -

Laura Bergner ’09 shows a snake to guests at this past Saturday s Reptile Day .
sponsored by the Herpetology Laboratory.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008

~ |

GPA discussion continues

By KATE GILLESPIE
Staff Writer

Last Thursday’s SGA meeting featured a
vote on the resolution concerning divestment
from companies that conduct business in
Darfur and an update on the discussion of
GPA deflation.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08, a representa-
tive from the anti-genocide coalition
STAND, presented the resolution conceming
divestment to senators.

For the last few weeks, STAND has been
collecting student signatures for a petition
asking the Board of Trustees to divest
Davidson’s endowment from companies that
have business operations in Sudan.

According to Van Oudenaren, the endow-
ment’s investment in Sudan-related compa-
nies last year totaled about $250,000.

At last Thursday’s meeting, however, Van
Oudenaren said that Davidson does not
appear to have any current holdings in these
companies.

“We're pretty Sudan-friendly at this
point,” he said.

According to SGA President Davis Greene
°09, there are several reasons why the com-
panies in which Davidson invests no longer
conduct business in Sudan.

“The U.S. government enacted a law that
no U.S. companies can do business in
Sudan,” Greene said. “We also only have one
management firm that’s investing in energy.”

Both Van Oudenaren and Greene said that
Davidson potentially could be involved in
Sudan-related investments in the future.

They asked senators to vote for what
Greene called “a policy for the future,”
pledging that Davidson would “look before
we buy.”

Senators unanimously passed the resolu-
tion supporting this policy.

Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10 then introduced
the outcome of last Wednesday’s Academic
Policy Forum.

Students and faculty members at the
Forum spoke with President Tom Ross about
the Strategic Assessment Plan and recent
research indicating that Davidson students
have lower GPAs than students at peer insti-
tutions.

Senators sent an email to their respective

classes last week with information about the
GPA research.

According to Zwieryznski, Ross said that
he wished there had been time to prepare a
package of information to prevent students
from misunderstanding the issue.

Zwieryznski, however, said that the pur-
pose of the email was “to inform the student
body and start a dialogue.”

She asked senators to emphasize that more
research must be done before Davidson can
begin responding to the GPA issue.

“I would promote everybody saying, yes,
this means something but that we need more
research,” Zwieryznski said.

Ross plans to form 4 task force between
the administration and students to conduct a
more in-depth study of the issue.

Katie Hunter ’08, who attended the APC
Forum, said she thought the event was a suc-
cess.

“T felt like everybody there made known
the concerns,” she said.

Hunter also said that students needs to
know that “there aren’t two opposing
camps” between students and faculty mem-
bers.

Zwieryznski agreed with Hunter and said
that students need to realize that the purpose
of sharing the information was to start a dia-
logue.

“If it becomes this butting of heads, then
no progress is going to be made,”
Zwieryznski said.

According to Whitney White ’08, howev-
er, students should be prepared for some dis-
agreement.

The meeting also included a report from
Laura Cepeda ’10, the head of the Admission
and Financial Aid Committee.

Cepeda said that the Admission Office is
trying to increase its recruitment of interna-
tional students.

Only about four percent of Davidson’s stu-
dent population is international students.
Because financial aid packages for these stu-
dents must come from alumni grants, fund-
ing is very limited and has not increased in
over a decade.

Cepeda said that the Admission Office
plans to recruit international students who
can afford a Davidson education in order to
increase the international population.

Jim Fuller
B.A. Davidson College
JD. UNC Law School

| Best Lawyers in America ‘84-——~'07
NC Academy of Trial Lawyers, past president.

Former Jadge NC Court of Appeals

Adjunct professor of trial advocacy
Dake Law School -

Sandy Carnegie
B.A. Davidson College
J.D University of Richmond

I
Commissioner - for the Town of. Davidson |

83-85; 88'-’97

Town of Davidson Commercial and
Noxth End Corridor Plan ‘05

Mecklenburg County Real Estate
Executive Council ‘03 to present.

Concentrating in Personal Injury

| UNC Law School -

Other Areas of Practice

Bankruptcy, Business Law, Collections, Estate Planing,

in
£. titog,
bare 5
LAW FIRM
In the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill, 209 Delburg Street, Suite 203
Davidson, NC 29036 (704) 892-1699

I
Litigation, Real Estate, Social Secarity Disability, Wills & Trasts
}

(Next to the Brickhouse Tavern)
