A

atement of purpose. proclaims . the
iberal education. of students. fort Hives of leadershi

‘one ‘sense.’ The failure’. to satflenl
the: semester performance represents a. setious, hole in,

as well as many: other dialecti
osits feedback: central cog in the Jearnin:

untless hours of wor an only a letter ona compute
n.. Once-the. work: is. done, it is never seen again
Thé student loses the obyious benefits’ ) professo
Feedback; , the, potential 0 Tearn from mistake:

‘Sowhoistoblame forthislapse?Simply put, ev ry
: Ultimately the student must be re
fe

i ofessors automatically ret
wrrectéd final assignments nearly all will Unhappily Os
upon sequcess iit profess facilitatc

ofessors retuned graded exams and ] pap ,
their valuable criticism would undoubtedly ‘reach ma
more students, Returning assignments would also guard
E against errors in sredingsthe student could detect

f th are inevitably
whirlwind of studying, wring and, stress. To what end,

view a the attention we rightfully me :
ther classy work? In omitting thisi important fonction .

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
Zé “Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
, Arts &.Living Editors
Aennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
‘ Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors
2x Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors -
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley “ f
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers ;
Jordan Wall, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright 7
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs ec
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@ davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

JOHN MorGcan
Guest Writer

At first glance, Obama’s election represents a frequent
trend in American politics: the peaceful overthrow of those in
power. Beginning in 2006, the six years of Republican control
of Washington were rapidly erased by a storm of Democratic
fury. That shift is nothing new.

The larger ramifications of this cycle, however, will have
long-term consequences on the world.

A recent article on Salon.com describes Obama’s
administration as the first of America’s Fourth Republic. The
first three originated with Washington, Lincoln and FDR,
respectively. In each 72-year cycle, the first half was marked

" by growing government intervention, only to be challenged by

ideals of small government. But in each cycle, the Jeffersonian
philosophies of decentralization could only streamline, not
reverse, Hamilton’s style of strong government.

Does our country approach such a new age? Will Obama’s
presidency deliver new technologies and discoveries?
Will the next four or eight years reverse not only Reagan’s
revolution, but Roosevelt’s as well? Washington gave us a
republic; Lincoln, a nation; and Roosevelt, a superpower.
May something comparable be in the works from this White
House transition?

The fall of the Republicans simply
represents the recurrent upheaval
inherent to American democracy.

The argument against such musing is obvious —we voted
for Obama purely because of short-term aims. The war,
economic recovery and a clear reversal of Bushian politics
stood at the forefront of our minds, not the genesis of some
over-arching historical movement. Yes, Obama promises
change, but no American voter is so foolish as to expect a
Lincoln or Roosevelt. I hope.

The fall of the Republicans simply represents the recurrent
upheaval inherent to American democracy. Once the country
moves too far in one direction, the people naturally seek
equilibrium. That’s the beauty of two-party politics—the
constantly swinging pendulum of power.

Obama’s victory does signify a significant extreme of this
pattern — control by the same party of both the White House
and Congress and a strong extension of control in the latter
to boot. Typically, voters pit the executive and legislative
against each other — Reagan versus a Democratic congress

TIVES

Obama: founder of the Fourth Republic?

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 10, 2008

and Clinton versus a Republican one.

While this rapid shift in power seems to indicate an
unprecedented tide of change, it originates in the previous
Republican gains. The Right acquired too much power, and
Americans sought to temper it, admittedly with a vengeance.
The greatest lesson learned is that Karl Rove’s long-term
Republican majority will never happen (thankfully), nor will
a Democratic one.

Washington gave us a republic;
Lincoln, a nation; and Roosevelt,
a superpower. May something
comparable be in the works from this
White House transition?

But Obama’s election should not be down- -played—the
situation he faces is too monumental. A tattered economy,
a battered international image and nothing less than the
decline of a superpower face the new president. The New
York Times describes Obama as, “a 21st century president
in a 19th century world.” As powers realign and as emerging
economies gain power, he must redefine America’s role on
this planet.

The Salon article attributed a new technology to each of
the three previous republics: industrialization, railroads and
national transportation, respectively. Will Obama’s legacy
include a similar technological revolution? Is solar power
the new steam engine? Though much depends on Obama’s
policies, only time and a little bit of luck will tell.

For now, his focus must stick with the short term— quoting
the Salon article, “The broad outlines of technological and
economic change merely provide the frame for the picture;
the details depend on the groups that emerge victorious
in political battles.” The Democrats must first tackle the
financial crisis and, in doing so, may accidentally form a new
economic direction.

Even as Obama turns his eyes toward colossal projects,
he must recognize that he was elected for a short term goal—
to reverse the disastrous policies of his predecessor. The
American people are just as likely to replace Obama in 2012
if he shifts the country too far in the other direction.

John Morgan ’12 is undeclared. He is from Decatur, Ga.
Contact him at jomorgan@davidson.edu.

Reality tempers ‘Change’ for Obama

” Where has all the change gone?

_ For the past two years, “Change We
Can Believe In” has adorned many
a podium, and banner. But now
' that the dream has arrived, it has
disappeared. Sure the slogan lost
some shine after the 35-year Senate
veteran, Joe Biden, was selected as
a running mate, but that was just the
vice-president.

Now the change seems to have
left Barack Obama’s administration.
The names Daschle, Clinton,
Holder, Summers, Geithner and
Gates are relics of past administrations. They have all been
in Washington D.C. before, many as major players. Tom
Daschle was the Senate Majority Leader. Larry Summers was
Clinton’s Treasury Secretary. Eric Holder was the Deputy
Attorney General. Granted, they are not hold-overs from the
Bush administration (save Gates), but they certainly are not
new, nor do they represent change.

In claiming that Obama’s appointees compose a team
of rivals, the media has continued its adoration of catch-
phrases that ignore fact. Which of those appointees think
differently than Obama? Hillary Clinton, Bill Richardson and
Joe Biden were primary opponents, but their differences were
miniscule.

Will any of them protest the closing of Guantanamo Bay
or amnesty for illegal aliens? Will they oppose Obama’s tax
increases? No, of course not. They all have the same basic
policy ideas. Now, I am not criticizing Obama’s cabinet
choices. When you amass over 60 million votes, you get the
right to pick who will carry out your policies independently
of public opinion.

Change also seems evanescent in regards to Obama’s
policies. No longer does an Iraq withdrawal seem imminent.
Likewise, he has backed off plans to immediately -increase

sin cera,

Bossy DesPain

marginal tax rates on the top two income brackets. His
Promise to “make oil companies like Exxon pay a tax on
their windfall profits, and...use the money to help families
pay for their skyrocketing energy costs and other bills” has
been shelved.

The evaporation of calls for change, as well as the
softening of anti-Iraq rhetoric, is a direct result of his election.
Running for president and being president are on opposite
sides of the river. You have no responsibilities running for
president. However, when you reach the Resolute desk, you
recall Harry Truman’s sign “The Buck Stops Here.” For the
past eight years, Democrats had George W. Bush to blame
for failures.

Running for president and being
president are on opposite sides of the

river.
SE ee

Now, with a Democrat-controlled White House and
Congress, the blame will fall solely on Obama and his Capitol
comrades. In the beginning they will continue to blame Bush,
but that excuse will only last so long. Of course, given the
world Obama will confront, he may soon long for the Bush
years. He will face a hostile world that seems to be closing in
on America’s shores, not to mention an economic fiasco.

Now that Barack Obama has sat in on a few intelligence
and economic briefings, reality might have hit him hard. It
is difficult to ignore the many threats to American interest,
especially when men with commanding titles tell you to. As
president, Obama will take the heat if something goes awry.
Simply put, Obama’s message of change does not mesh
with keeping America safe and economically secure. Thus,
Obama has had to change his message of ‘Change.’

Bobby DesPain ’11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
