THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008 3

OLAS, PS, Timmy Foundation to co-host fundraiser

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

This weekend, the Organization of Latin
American Students (OLAS), the Timmy
Foundation and PS will co-host a fundraiser
to help support the building of a new hospi-
tal in Quito, Ecuador. The event, jBailemos!,
is an evening of dinner and dancing to be
held in Vail Commons on April 4, and all of
the proceeds will go directly to the national
Timmy Foundation.

The highlights of the benefit will be the
Latin American cuisine, prepared by student-
run restaurant PS and the professional salsa
band, funded by OLAS. For attendees new to
salsa dancing, there will be a quick lesson on
the basics immediately following dinner.

The Timmy Foundation is a national non-
profit organization that supports humanitari-
an projects in Colombia, Guatemala, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Haiti and
Jamaica. The organization’s goal is to help
provide healthcare and education in order to
brighten the futures of children in develop-
ing countries.

Although based in Indianapolis, Timmy
has local chapters in numerous high schools
and nine colleges, and depends greatly on
both monetary and volunteer support from
these chapters. They only have four salaried
employees, so hundreds of volunteers are
imperative to the success of large-scale proj-
ects in the six countries,

The Davidson chapter is involved in the

RR erg centre a ca nes

Piystecss ion page I

act) students, from classwork,’ ? he. ‘Said,4

me

Ra Wendy Roberts and Traci Rus

equests. They. ‘had just over 36.
ut every” detail together, with eager

ents nagging them the whole way

eter Wednesdy ‘

cathe Eg ee

ing in overnight, a shortage of’ buses. ulti

ulty members might not react positively to
his event out of concern that it would dis J

assistants of the president's’ Tiifoe Lind

1 /Doubletes Inn for those on the athletics bus
_ ‘They were able: to collect additional rooms

Members of the Timmy Foundation, Davidson chapter, stand in the Adean moun-
tains above Quito, Ecuador, during their annual service trip.

Ecuadorian project, called The New World
Foundation, which focuses its efforts in the
capital city, Quito. Through donations and
volunteer work, the Foundation has already
built one hospital in the city and now plans a
second that will be called “Singing for Life.”
The new hospital will be a bigger, state-of-
the-art facility and will help a different area
of the metropolis. The two hospitals will not
compete but rather facilitate each other in

al demand. With additional e-mails

_> mately limited the number of students able t

ot.” make: the..trip. on Friday.;The- president's
office searched long and hard, but additiona

uses “could not be located. “Our one regre

our trip more than worthwhile with a con.
ineing 73- 56 victory over the University o

providing medical care to the city’s estimat-
ed 2.1 million people.

Another focus of The New World
Foundation is encouraging community
involvement in Quito, largely in order to fos-
ter a feeling of accomplishment and owner-
ship. The local groups spearhead constant
support and provide much media coverage.

Davidson’s chapter of the Timmy

Foundation is two years old and was found-

Ray received word. from’ Ross that the

: trustees wished to fund additional buses and ~

#This time the level‘of demand fit the avail~.
bility quite nicely—j just 1 under 250 students

Aheir gratitude: a bit more: tangible by mak

_ poster paper and having-as. many stude
Las Possible briefly ¢ express their thoughts

ed in part by Ecuadorian Maria José Mejia
°09. The group fundraises tirelessly for the
Ecuador project and goes on an annual mis-
sion trip to Quito every winter. Each year,
the lifestyle differences in the South
American country astonishes the students,
who vow to continue helping people howev-
er they can.

Mejia loves to see such enthusiasm for
helping her country, especially by people
who are otherwise unattached to Ecuador.

“It is touching to see that so many people
care about issues that don’t necessarily touch
their own lives,” she said. “It’s wonderful
that others care about my home as much as I
do.”

Timmy maintains a permanent fundraiser.
Each Tuesday and Thursday from 5-10 p.m.
the group sells woven bracelets and belts as
well as freshly baked cookies in the Union.
However, none of these funds go toward the
club’s trips. In an attempt to maximize the
money given directly to the project, one of
Timmy’s policies is that no fundraising can
be done to support the volunteer missions, so
the students fund their own trips.

OLAS, PS and the Timmy Foundation
encourage students, faculty and staff to come
to jBailemos! on Friday for authentic Latin
American. cuisine and entertainment.
Anyone interested in participating in the
Timmy Foundation’s next mission trip is
especially urged to attend. Tickets to the
event are available all week in the Union.
They are $12 in advance and $15 at the door.

igns. and chants—both during the: gam
itself, and during-the official Davidson pre:
party at a local restaurant, ‘Students. mad

ing an oversized thank-you card. out. o

“program were re being outcheered by. a school
‘OF 1 700 student Well, that’s easy —nearly

- Ross. denies that the publicity factored:
into, the trustees decision. “If we: were tha :

This 5 trip.shows b how much the trustee :
value the. students; Roberts said. ts jus

