THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING __ woosesoav,arn2, 2008-15
Spring fashion 2008 goes bright, colorful, global

Ee

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Spring demands that we bid farewell to
any vestiges of winter wool, ushering in the
long-overdue exchange of those dark,
moody styles for a brighter, multi-colored
breath of fresh air that perpetually includes
florals, ballet flats and the shortening of skirt
hems. And this spring, along with the rise in
temperature comes a surplus of colors, pat-
terns and cross-cultural styles which create a
season of fresh, versatile fashions that
require minimal trips to the store.

Unlike the ethereal, Jane Austen-inspired
trends of past seasons, this spring flashes
brightly with a collection of bold clothes and
feminine attitude. And while the season’s
trends lack any groundbreaking styles, we
can be thankful for the recently developed
world-wide inspiration, which allows for an
eclectic, Pangaea-mix of old stand-bys and
fresh pieces. The best rule for the next few
months is that whatever you choose to wear,
even if it resides in the pile of last season’s
staples, embrace the tergiversation of the
fashion world. Fortunately, all it takes is one
piece to become instantly in vogue. Here are
a few trends to be aware of:

May flowers and geometry: Finally, the
two are equally enjoyable. The more promi-
nent of the two patterns draws its inspiration
from the blossoming season itself, as pieces
abound with oversize prints of roses, daises
and pansies. Large floral figures appear most
frequently on sun dresses, tunic tops and
raincoats, and some may even take on a geo-
metric feel. However, those who are opposed
to attracting vernal bees may opt for a more
demure floral pattern on a sweater top or silk
scarf. And straight from the math book, col-

orful squares, rhombi and hexagons appear
on blouses, skirts and shorts.

Color: What better time to embrace the
resurgence of the season than with the beau-
ty of brightness. Whether you go all out with
a Technicolor dream coat or opt for a rain
jacket in canary yellow, cobalt blue or deep
fuchsia, the idea is to break completely away
from fall’s obsession with black. Literally
every color in the crayon box is fair game,
even if you prefer softer colors like light yel-
low or baby pink.

Disco Inferno: Burn with the power.
Paying homage to one of the most unforget-
table movements in pop culture expect to see
clothes bedecked with sequins, stones and
studs, and clothes worked in retro materials
such as lam, plastic-inspired sheens and
metallic gold, silver and bronze. Anything
from mini-dresses to shoes and accessories is
fair game, so when your spark gets hot,
you’re doing something right.

Global Attire: A concept that has taken the
fashion world far too long to grasp is finally
here. The idea behind this philanthropic
movement is that theoretically, one could put
together any pieces inspired from different
cultures, and create a sharp, original ensem-
ble.

For instance, pair an African-inspired
zebra-print dress with a pair of red, Oriental-
patterned flats and a Pacific coral necklace.
And bear in mind that cultural inspiration is
not limited to the 21st century, as ancient
Grecian- and Roman-inspired tunic tops and
dresses have been spotted on the runway,
which could look perfect with a bright purse
or silver sequined belt.

Wide-leg jeans and evening shorts: Just to
challenge their conventional roles and give
us some sass below the belt, shorts and pants

Le %

J :

this season have swapped personae. While
we all thought that skinny jeans would be
around for the next five years, not surprising-
ly, the trend has yet again swung the other
way, and ultra-wide-leg pants are now in
daytime vogue.

And while eyebrows might rise, shorts
have made the crossover into flashy evening
attire, possibly paired with a shimmering
top, opaque tights and ballet flats. Just
remember that for shorts and shoes, the
shorter the feel, the lower the heel.

Expose yourself to art: One of the more
obscure yet fascinating trends this season
comes as actual copies of paintings and
sculptures, fashioned into clothing, purses

we courtesy phote

Bright colors and whimsical patterns in Eley Kishimoto’s Spring 2008 collection

and accessories. For example, paintings by
Klimt, Monet and Degas leave the museum
walls for shirts, shoes, purses, scarves and
jewelry. And while this is a more difficult

trend to follow, the style and culture gleaned:

are worth the time spent looking.

What’s out: While you might be able to
recycle pieces from seasons past, there are a
few styles which should be flat-out aban-
doned. Whicker and basket-woven shoes,
dresses in jersey knit, trapeze cuts and
empire-fitted shirts, psychedelic prints and
dark colors of any sort. The versatile themes
for this spring’s fashion include effortless
elegance and dainty flowers to a heart-in-
the-right-place, world-wide awareness.
