4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALISSA CURRAN
News Editor

The beginning of a new semester a minor
budget conflict, and the ongoing Real Talk
campaign were some of the main issues dis-

’ cussed at the last SGA meeting.

Among the more pressing issues raised at
the meeting was the state of the SGA’s budg-
et, which is currently suffering from heavy
spending during first semester and the cost
of CAT TV, an expense they agreed to pick
up for a year only.

Additionally, the cost of the buses that
took many students to Jena, La. this past fall
took a large toll on SGA’s budget. Telephone
bills and chartered buses to go to basketball
games were also cited as contributing to low
funds.

The Real Talk campaign, which was voted
on by students, has promoted environmental
awareness on campus thus far this year and
will continue to do so. Laminated signs post-
ed above sinks in many dormitories encour-
age students to cut water usage in general
and especially during the ongoing drought.

pena highlig

By KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

On Tuesday night, Austin Bell ’10 pre-
miered his documentary “Shock Value: Why
Are We Surprised?” The film, part of a series
of awareness events celebrating MLK Day,
addressed racism both at a national level and
at Davidson College. A discussion about race
followed the screening.

The documentary featured footage from
the Davidson trip to Jena, LA as well as com-
mentary from professors, staff, students and
those who shared their thoughts in the free
speech booth that was set up in the Union
several weeks ago.

The documentary began with Darrell Scott
”10, who said, “At this campus we’re so con-
cemed with being nice, sometimes we’re a
little too nice.” Many interviewed in the film
reflected Scott’s sentiment that Davidson
students are often too polite, nervous and
non-confrontational to discuss racist inci-
dents on campus.

The film revealed that since the Jena 6
incident, 40 to 50 other noose-hanging inci-
dents have occurred throughout the country,
and Davidson has not been exempt from
grievous displays of hate. According to
Emest Jeffries, Assistant Dean of Student
Life, “when [racist incidents] happen on a
national spectrum [such as at Jena], local
people will get the courage to lash out as
well.” Recently at Davidson, a racial slur
was found written on a door in Belk dormi-
tory, and there have been incidents of con-
federate flags being both displayed and
paraded on campus by students, which Tom
Ross addressed in his Inaugural speech.

While Davidson students took a strong
stand against injustice in Jena, with 50 stu-
dents traveling there to protest, many in the
documentary commented that students tend
to ignore racist incidents occurring on cam-
pus. This is largely due to the fact that it is
hard to confront problems in your own back-
yard, but it is easier if there is a degree of
anonymity involved in protesting and fight-
ing racism.

According to Professor of Sociology Dr.
Eve Veliz, “We want to believe those evil
southerners in Louisiana [are racist] and not
us.” A student from the Free Speech video
booth confirmed Veliz’s comment, saying
that it is easy to criticize someone we don’t
know personally, but it’s harder to confront a
good friend after they’ve told a racist joke.
It’s much easier to attribute their joke to ine-
briation and then continue ignoring the prob-
lem. But, as another student stated, to choose
to do nothing to combat racism is to choose
to perpetuate it. ’

Many of the people interviewed agreed
that the racism plaguing Davidson is mostly
subtle, subconscious and based on igno-
rance. A senior gave the example of a white
student walking the other way when seeing a
group of minority students approaching as an
example of a more covert but common
example of racism at Davidson. Similar
examples include students giving disdainful
looks to minority students and asking offen-
sive and ignorant questions.

The film also explored racial awareness on
campus and in the nation. Veliz shared sur-
prise that it takes an incident like Jena, which
led to media inspired groupthink and band-
wagon effects to get people talking about
racism. Veliz continued that racism, particu-
larly in the criminal justice system, occurs
every day and adds up over time. “That’s
what surprises me...how we choose to
remain ignorant...when really these things
are happening every day,” Veliz said. She
continued that a way to spread racial aware-
ness was to let staggering statistics involving
race in the criminal justice system speak for
themselves and to let people make up their
own minds based on the numbers.

The audience then discussed ways to
increase awareness on campus. According to
one student, “If we realize [racism] exists,
we can deal with it in right way instead of
pretending it doesn’t exist.”

Interesting discussion was raised about
Davidson’s pre-orientation STRIDE pro-
gram for minority students and whether or
not it encourages self-segregation. Some stu-

dents feel that STRIDE causes separation
between minorities and whites. However,
one student who had participated in the pro-
gram said that “Students who will self segre-
gate will do so whether or not STRIDE is in
order.”

Furthermore, according to Veliz, programs
like STRIDE exist at many other colleges,
and “easing the cultural transition is helpful”
to minority students, who are vastly outnum-
bered by white students at Davidson.

According to STRIDE’s creator, Jeffries,
the program was initially created because
“we were not retaining minority students.” In
the program, Jeffries says students talk about
making Davidson their own, and as a result
of the program, “you have minorities
involved in all facets of student life.”

Students in the audience disagreed on
ways to educate Davidson students about
racial awareness both in and outside of the
classroom. Some students felt that if white
students and minorities befriended each
other without necessarily having uncomfort-
able conversations about race, racism on
campus could decrease. After all, students
could realize that the reality of going to
Davidson College bonds students from vast-

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008

SGA addresses budget concems

Signs were also given to all students living in
senior apartments to put up in their dorms.

Also to be discussed in the near future is
the concept of more outdoor recycling meth-
ods on campus, something students have
requested.

Mordecai Scott ’10 proposed the idea of a
fundraiser for Charlotte’s Battered Women’s
Shelter to be held in the Union atrium in late
May. He also asked that others present pub-
licize the Athlete’s Formal, which is open to
all students who participate in a varsity sport.
The proceeds will benefit the Student-
Athlete Advisory Council.

Also put forward was the idea for a forum
called “What’s going on down the road?”
which would foster community discussion
about the town and development. The Lake
Norman Community Development center
would be in attendance in addition to many
other community members.

Finally, the “Walk Around,” an event in
which SGA members are encouraged to par-
ticipate in order to identify unsafe places on
campus, will occur at 8 p.m. this Tuesday
outside the Union.

ts racism

ly different backgrounds. Another argued
that “it’s time student government and The
Davidsonian talked about issues in a way to
Start conflict; if we do that, this place can
change.”

Others also suggested argued that change
can happen inside the classroom, through
social justice and how even one person can
cause a ripple effect by sharing such discus-
sions with peers. Veliz commented on a sky-
rocketing of Sociology majors, which may
reveal an increased consciousness of racial
issues among students.

Other students suggested that change
should come from the institution and that
Davidson should host a series of small group
discussions in place of classes one day, or on
a Saturday, while another questioned
whether students would make time for such
discussions.

Despite the disagreements on how to
increase racial awareness on campus, most
audience members supported the film’s final
message, which declared “we must fight
these injustices on more than just one day.”

For change to occur, people have to do
more than just discuss racism at designated
times; they must be willing to take action.

aylo Blackwell and Brenda Tapia discuss history of race relations in
