2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spratt, from page 1

Georgia, or even South Carolina?

JS: I understand things are picking up
in Georgia, that the polls are getting tighter.
South Carolina is not beyond the realm of
imagination—it’s a reach, but it could hap-
pen.

D: Recently we’ve heard a number of
voices, Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.), for
instance, say that given the financial crisis
we’re in, balancing the budget ought not be
the top priority.

JS: Well, there are more seasoned econo-
mists than Barney. And Barney’s a real bright
guy, saying the same thing: that in these cir-
cumstances you just have to put the economy
back on an even keel as quickly as you can.
And J think that’s going to be the prescription
for action. On the other hand, on Monday
Ben Bernanke (Chair of the Federal Reserve)
testified that, all things considered, given the
risk of a deep and long recession, something
like the Japanese experience in the 1990s,
the better part of discretion would be to have
some sort of additional stimulus to mitigate,
if not avert, that type of recession. And, bear
in mind, that if we have a recession that’s
deep and long the deficit will really take a
hit, a big hit. So, it’s not a case where you
can protect the deficit—if you have a stimu-
lus plan that involves spending money, the
deficit will go up; if you don’t do anything
and the economy goes into deep recession,
the deficit will really go up.

D: Could you give your thoughts to the
Davidson student body on why a balanced
budget is so important for this country?

JS: Well, first of all, depending on who
finances the deficit, it can have an effect on
interest rates, because it means the govern-
ment is competing with private interest for
capital. Secondly, this country has a woeful
deficiency of savings, both at the household
level and at the corporate level—although

w

‘For each

ch ope Roberts asked each side

change?” and “How specifically ‘would yo
address the issue of border control?”

ode tyg Ob ee

than F policy, Roberts found this debate mo

_ /The sides. ‘each stayed true: to the: poli-
“cies of their candidates. and answered the
questions with precision within the allot-
;ted time. The debaters had been given these
questions. before: the debate, allowing

News

corporate savings are higher than individual
or government savings. We aggravate that
problem by having deficits, because deficits
actually wipeout whatever savings individu-
als and corporate interests may account for.
Thirdly, deficits amount to our generation
saying ‘We can’t afford to pay for the war
in Afghanistan or Iraq. And we can’t pay for
the full costs of Medicare and Medicaid in
our time; we’ll let our children pick up the
debt.’ So I think it’s an intergenerational eq-
uity question, and we should not be shoving
the burden of the debt onto our own children
and grandchildren.

Now, I’m cagey enough to believe that
deficits can be used for constructive purposes
for countercyclical economics. But, for the
most part, for the last eight years we haven’t
needed to use the deficit for that.

D: Could you talk about how your expe-
rience at Davidson has affected your life in
public service?

JS: When Kennedy got elected, he was
naturally appealing for a lot of young peo-
ple. And, furthermore, he raised the status
of public service. So that set the tone of the
climate for the first few years I was at David-
son. If you wanted to do something in your
life that allows you to act upon your convic-
tions, collective office was clearly one route
to doing that, not the only one by any means.
Davidson also taught values—stood for val-
ues and taught values. And politics is very
much about values. And we picked up much
of that, as I said in my speech today, not just
from the courses we took, but from the teach-
ers who taught us.

D: Are you planning on going to any bas-
ketball games this year?

JS: Oh boy, I went to two last year. I love
the way they play ball. When I was at Da-
vidson some looked at basketball as a dis-
traction, not something a liberal arts college
should be emphasizing. But it really did do a
lot to bring the student body together.

stile on ‘one-liners i in their debates, rath

ack on the rise, Saturday's debate demon
tes thati iti is is certainly n¢ not dead.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 29,

2008

SGA. Discusses ITS initiatives

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

At last Thursday’s SGA meeting Student
Computing Services Coordinator Shauna’h
Fuegen was present to answer questions re-
garding the reliability of the college’s wire-
less network.

Fuegen mentioned that Information Tech-
nology Services (ITS) staff were surprised at
a recent Davidsonian editorial complaining
about inconsistent wireless access and urged
students to bring feedback directly to ITS.
She also pointed out that ITS had responded
to the criticism by purchasing and installing
more hardware, with new wireless access
points established in Martin Court, the third
floor of the library, the fourth floor of the
Union, the fitness center, and the study room
in Davidson College Presbyterian Church.

Fuegen also used the meeting as an op-
portunity to unveil several new initiatives
from ITS. The entire wireless network will
be shifting to the Davidson Secure system,
which is currently limited to college employ-
ees. This shift also coincides with a dramatic
expansion of the system’s bandwidth, which
will quintuple over the next year.

Keeping with the Year of Sustainabil-
ity, ITS will also be changing the system
for printing documents at the busiest print-
ers on campus. The new PawPrint system
will have a pilot setup in the Belk dormitory
computer lab, which should be up and run-
ning by the end of November. When students
choose to print a document, the print job
will be stored under their account names and
held in a queue. In order to actually print the
document, students will have to approach the
printer andswipe their CatCard.

Later, the PawPrint system will expand to
the Union and to the library, with the inten-
tion of moving to a global print queue.

Fuegen also announced the opening of

PHOTO OF THE

A group of students travelled to Atlanta last Thursday to protest the imprison-
ment of Troy Davis. Davis currently faces execution for the murder of a police
officer. Davis is still scheduled to be executed despite an overwhelming amount
of supportors who claim he is innocent. Amnesty International is just one of the
many organizations championing Davis’ cause.

two new collaborative computing centers in
the Belk dormitory computer lab. The first,
nicknamed “Mama Bear” by ITS, is confer-
ence room with four computer terminals at a
large table with additional outlets for laptops
and a projector.

The second, nicknamed “Baby Bear”

a lounge with laptop-friendly furniture and
a single computer connected to a large flat
panel display. The computer contains collab-
orative software that allows students to wire-
lessly connect and work on a single docu-
ment from multiple computers, simplifying
group work.

In other matters, Academic Policy Com-
mittee chair Colby Uptegraft ’09 and Student
Life Committee chair Mikaela Zwieryzn-
ski ’10 reopened last year’s discussion over
grade deflation at Davidson. Previously, the
committee managed to obtain mean grade
point averages for several (but not all) of the
college’s peer institutions; Davidson was the
lowest among those disclosed.

As a result, the committee is contemplat-
ing adding a “student class profile” to tran-
scripts sent by the registrar’s office. These
profiles— which are currently available from
the registrar—state the mean GPA as well as
the decile and quartile breakdowns of GPAs
for students of that class year. Students would
be permitted to opt out of this disclosure.

Admissions and Financial Aid Commit-
tee chair Andrew Gorang ’09 had good news
for the SGA meeting: news of the Davidson
Trust and the college’s successful basketball
run had increased the visit rate by 25 per-
cent.

He also reported that the Davidson Trust
seemed successful, but aggressive fundrais-
ing would be necessary to maintain the pro-
gram. He also pointed out that a number of
on-campus student employment slots were
unfilled. Gorang intends to bring those con-
cerns before the college’s trustees.
