THE DAVIDSONIAN

ee
Economy, from page I

to companies and individuals who are out to
make a short-term profit. The long-term af-
fects of such packages are proving to be any-
thing but profitable, putting major mortgage
companies at risk nationwide.

The government’s
Bailout Bill proposed
Monday was not passed
by congress. Ross and
Smith expressed their 7 ~
disappointment, sug- 4
gesting that President ¢
Bush did not pres-
ent the package well
enough to the public,
causing it to fail. They
emphasized that the , |
proposed $700 billion &
dollars needed for the |
bailout would not have 4
been forced directly
upon the taxpayer.

More than likely the fund would have
been absorbed elsewhere as Smith pointed
out that a similar situation happened when
the government bailed out Chrysler in 1983
and very little of the cost was absorbed by
the public.The price tag associated with this
current Bailout Bill was not well presented,
according to Smith and as a result was not
passed, causing a panic in the markets as they
continued to drop on Monday.

According to Smith, if it had been passed,
the psychological ramification would have
been great. Regaining public confidence in
the government and economy will be the
great challenge for Washington in the com-
ing weeks. The need for a new and sustain-
able Bailout plan is necessary and will hope-
fully foster confidence and restore a healthy
psyche to the American consumer.

After mentioning President Bush’s in-
ability to present the Bailout plan affectively,
the discussion quickly turned to politics.
Ross elaborated on this point, suggesting that
President Bush didn’t create a strong enough
firewall between this issue and the impend-
ing presidential election. Ross remained
adamant that the current economic situation
is not strictly a democrat or republican prob-
lem. Upon being asked which candidate they
felt was better suited to deal with the rapidly
changing economy, Smith quickly advocated

“Darius Goes West

JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

In the summer of 2005, Darius Weems, a
high school student with Duchene Muscular
Dystrophy, left his home in Athens, Georgia,
for the first time to travel west to California.
Darius’s RV was filled with eleven of his
friends, including Davidson student Andrew
Carson, who helped to make the journey into
a documentary called “Darius Goes West.”

Now, in the fall of 2008, Darius and his
crew are taking their second trip to promote
the documentary in hopes of raising funds
for Duchene’s Muscular Dystrophy from
DVD sales. Their goal is to sell one million
DVDs.

Darius, Carson and the rest of the crew
will be visiting Davidson at 7p.m. next Mon-
day, October 6 to show “Darius Goes West”
to the college and the community in the Duke
Family Performance Hall.

The film will be shown again, without the
crew on site, the next evening at 7 p.m. in the
Lilly Family Gallery.

The event is free and no tickets are re-
quired. DVDs and t-shirts will be on sale in
the union until Friday Oct 17. Each copy is
$20, with $17 going directly to Duchene’s
Muscular Dystrophy research.

As the film depicts, Duchene’s Muscular
Dystrophy is a degenerative, genetic and de-
bilitating disease and the number one child-
hood killing disease in the world. Luckily,
researchers now believe a cure is in sight.

“My hope is that people translate their

Dr. Ross and Dr. Smith discuss the current
economic climate this past Monday.

News

for Senator Obama. “We’ve had eight years
of a president selecting people that are less
than the best in their field,” Smith said, citing
John Snow and Paul O’Neal as less than ide-
al choices for Secretary of Treasury. Smith
continued, emphasizing that Senator McCain

was not listening to the top people in the

field, namely
Phil Gramm.
Smith —con-
cluded by
saying, “J
have a lot of
confidence
that he [Sena-
tor Obama] is
going to ask
the right peo-
ple the right
questions.”
Ross re-
mained fairly
silent on this
question and
did not offer an alternative opinion.

When asked how this economic crisis
would directly affect the Davidson student
population, Ross said, “Well, there are four
or five investment banks that got Davidson
student applications that no longer exist.”
Ross continued, stating that if the economy
does not improve this could limit the finan-
cial success of Davidson and the college may
be looking at flatter budgets for next year.

Not only will the economy affect David-
son students’ ability to get jobs in the future,
but questions surrounding student loans and
Davidson’s financial aid policy are buzzing
across campus with no definitive answers so
far.

Concluding this forum, both Ross and
Smith expressed their concern for the unpre-
dictable nature of the economy. Ross said,
“That is what is very frightening because
this is unpredictable stuff.” After Dr. Smith
candidly said, “I lost a butt-load of money
today.”

Clearly, Smith is not alone as many
Americans find themselves facing financial
losses. The unpredictable nature of the cur-
rent market may also lead to an increase in
unemployment rates. As the government
scrambles to find solutions, only time will
tell if we are facing a crisis or a return to re-
sponsible and regulated lending.

»’ then to Davidson

enjoyment of the film and appreciation of the
cause into action,” Carson said.

“If people like the movie, we hope they
buy DVDs and we hope they tell their fami-
lies and friends across the country about Dar-
ius Goes West. We are a grassroots movement
without a budget for expensive marketing, so
we depend on word-of-mouth from support-
ers to spread the cause across the country.”

So far, that support has been increasing
rapidly and the film is gaining national atten-
tion. It was named Most Decorated Film of
2007 and won 28 film festival awards. Dur-
ing the film’s promotional tour, the crew has
appeared on Nightline, The Today Show and
Ellen DeGeneres.

The men of Kappa Sigma, Carson’s fra-
ternity, are doing all they can to see that the
event is promoted in this area to help Darius
and his crew reach their goal of selling one
million DVDs.

They have recruited the help of Kappa
Alpha, Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Phi
Epsilon and the Davidson Ultimate Frisbee
Federation. They have been advertising the
event to various groups across campus.

“This is an important chance for students
to build a greater sense of community by do-
ing what they can to support a great cause not
to mention one of our own, Andrew Carson,”
John Frankel “11, service chair of Kappa
Sigma, said. “Moreover, the movie is fan-
tastic. It’s funny, intelligent and moving—
something they’Il want to watch more than
once.” Trailers for the film are available on
YouTube.

SGA, from page I

Severin Tucker ’09, Independent sena-
tor, asked about the presence of Alcohol Law
Enforcement (ALE) both on campus and in
town. Previously, ALE has given little ad-
vance notice prior to arriving in Davidson
and has aggressively enforced alcohol laws.

Walker replied that ALE had undergone
a change in leadership and would be modify-
ing its approach, including possibly holding
information sessions on campus.

Walker also responded to questions about
student safety. Nicolas Cisneros ’09, Treasur-
er, asked about recent thefts in the library and
campus safety’s intended response. Walker
answered by saying that surveillance equip-
ment had been installed and suspects were
being reviewed from footage. He believed
the suspect to be a female but not a student
at the college.

The remainer of the meeting was de-
voted to reviewing the Activities Tax Coun-
cil’s (ATC) fall equipment allocation, where
approximately $100,000 of the council’s
budget will be spent. The largest requests
made were from Davidson Outdoors (DO),
the Union Board and the Labyrinth Project.
DO hopes to receive an additional $29,487
to supplement its allocation of $33,145. DO

“upon, a series of recommendations, the com-

“mittee proposed these. recommendations. to

“Dean, of Students. Tom Shandley,
them fo. the: Student ‘Conduct Council and
Davidson’: 8: -attomeys for review. The final
(product “was: Ahen,: ‘submitted, to. President
om Ross °72 for approval. *

ecording - ‘to Associate Dean of. st :
ents Kathy Bray-Merrell, one.of the agreed
upon changes was a consolidation of info:
; mation about sexual misconduct.. Previous-
Jy, this information was separated within the

_ Student handbook;. now all: information is.
Z “rejoined together under the Sexual Miscon-,

: “duct header. “Also available now isa-clearer
statement of resources available to both the
cusing and accused student...
ond ’ important.” “adjustment. ap-
‘proved. by. the- Student. Conduct Council

owas a clatification of. the definition of inca:

“pacitation.. The new rules set up very elear

, guidelines for-incapacitation,- -found in the
“student handbook, which state, examples
of incapacitation include but are not limited
: to, the following» persons who are intoxi-

#

Veteran, from page 2

of work to be done in Iraq. Boyce said tat he
feels an urge to go back to Iraq, and his stud-
ies at UNC Medical School may help him do
that.

Before going to Iraq, Boyce said that he
just wanted to be a “country doctor,” but his
war experience changed that dream.

Boyce said he now wants to attend school
in London, after receiving his general medi-
cine degree, to receive a degree in population

‘exploitation to the Sexual Misconduct Pole

this week announcing these e guanees, to the”

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008 3

runs the Community Bicycle program, which
must replace a third of its fleet in a given year
and also intends to replace some of its aging
outdoor equipment.

The Union Board’s request was for
$28,667, which will all be spent on the David-
son Show. The Show currently has no space
of its own and often must borrow equipment
to produce the program.

The equipment allocation is divided into
three parts. The first is simply an equipment
request that includes cameras, lighting, mi-
crophones and video editing equipment and
software. The second is a facilities renova-
tion request, which will pay for the conver-
sion of the Outpost’s basement into a per-
manent studio for the Davidson Show. The
renovation itself will be carried out by Physi-
cal Plant. The last component is for facility
equipment such as soundproofing, backdrops
and a green screen.

The Labyrinth Project has requested
$10,000 in an effort—cosponsored by 7 men-
tal health and arts organizations— to construct
a Chartres-style labyrinth on campus, adja-
cent to Hobart Park. Such a labyrinth would
provide a space for meditation and reflection
for students. Approximately two-thirds of the
total cost of $30,000 has been pledged by the
President’s Office and a donor.

or’ According: to Dean Bray-Merrell, in
the pasty such evidence could only be used

cy” Exploitation is defined in the policy as.
hen.-a..student: takes. non-consensual Or
“ abusive sexual advantage of another for his”

S ’ or her own benefit or to benefit anyone other:
-than the one being exploited, “Examples of.
sexual exploitation “include recording of
sexual activity: ‘without. consent, peepin
-Tommery: and knowingly’ transmitting

“sexually transmitted inféetion rere fo a

student body.’ “The. Dean of’ Students, of.
fice. will send an email to the, student body.

and public health. His dream is to work with
a NGO like International Red Cross to help
build or rebuild a nation’s health infrastruc-
ture. While he acknowledged that he won’t
be able to solve all the world’s problems,
“T’m certainly willing to chip away.”

Ross Boyce graduated Magna Cum
Laude in 2001 with honors in Chemistry.

He minored in Russian and participated
in ROTC all four years, winning the James
Baker Woods Award for the most outstand-
ing cadet.
