12

Carey Leigh Evans
Staff Writer

The ’Cats bounced back from last weekend’s tough open-
ing games in Ohio with two hard-fought home victories over
the weekend at Belk Turf Field. The team downed visiting
Georgetown and VCU to improve to 2-2 on the season.

In Friday night’s home opener against the Hoyas, Lisa
Landoe ’10 got the ’Cats on the board first with a goal at the
20-minute mark . Davidson extended their lead to 2-0 when
Christine Rua ’12 scored her first career goal on a penalty
shot.

Georgetown came out in the second half with a new sense
of purpose and cut the Wildcats’ lead to 2-1 with a goal by
Micaela O’ Toole in the 48th minute. Davidson held onto their
slim lead as the Hoyas’ offense continued to apply pressure.
Georgetown was able to tie the game with just eight minutes
remaining.

Davidson head coach Ginnie Sutton called a time out in
order to rally the ’Cats, and it worked, as the Wildcats gained
momentum in the final minutes.

With just three minutes remaining in regulation, Britti
Himelfarb ’09 found Clare Perry ’11 at the top of the box
who snapped a shot into the back of the Hoya net to give the
‘Cats a 3-2 advantage. The goal was Perry’s first of her career
and could not have come at a better time for the Wildcats.

Goalie Christa Goeke ’10 held Georgetown at bay for the
rest of the game to preserve the ’Cats first victory of the sea-
son.

The team returned to the field on Saturday for a
match-up with Virginia Commonwealth, who entered
the contest with a perfect 3-0 record. Once again, Da- *
vidson jumped out to an early lead with first half goals
by Himelfarb, Kathelijn van der Ven *12, and Perry to
give the ’Cats a 3-1 lead heading into the half.

The Rams drew within 3-2 when Lindsay Jones
scored her second goal of the contest at 50-minute
mark, but that was as close as VCU would get. Cap-
tain Tyler Kirkland ’09 added a goal for the Wildcats
in the final minutes to ensure the 4-2 victory.

Sutton called Saturday’s victory “a total team ef-
fort” and praised her team for keeping their focus the
entire weekend.

Van der Ven led Davidson with a goal and two
assists and her performance earned her recognition as _
the NorPac Conference’s Rookie of the Week. Sutton {
was pleased with her freshman midfielder’s perfor-
mance.

“Van der Ven had a great game and really did a lot
to set her teammates up on the field,” said Sutton. J

Next weekend, the ’Cats begin NorPac Confer- =
ence play with a trip to Longwood where they will |
also play a non-conference game against Towson
Davidson will look to build on their current two- |
game winning streak beginning with Friday’s night
match with the Lancers.

THE DAvidSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
‘SEPTEMBER 10, 2008

Kathelijn van der Ven 42 ‘celebrates her goal in Saturday’s 4-2
victory over previously unbeaten VCU.

Women’s soccer ties twice to remain unbeaten

JOHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

The ’Cats entered the weekend of Sep. 5-7 with eager
anticipation and excitement—it would mark the team’s first
ever home tournament. Several years in the making, the event
complements the men’s tourney last weekend.

Head coach Greg Ashton conceived the idea for an en-

Kathelijn van der Ven “12
FIELD HOCKEY
ARNHEM, THE NETHERLANDS

vironment on home turf, with three other teams, to rally the
‘Cats spirit and motivations before the tough SoCon matches
in October.

With Hurricane Hanna looming in the distance, Davidson
came out on fire against the Lehigh Mountain Hawks. In the
18 minute, Allison Drutchas ’11 ripped a corner deep into
the box, which first found its way to Lauren Conner ’10. Af-
ter Conner’s shot rebounded, Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 scored the
game’s first goal on a deft header. Bye-Nagel earned a spot
last week on the SoCon’s players of the week list.

Lehigh then controlled the offense for most of the first
half. Deep in Davidson territory, Lehigh lobbed a cross into
the box in the 24" minute. Copying Bye-Nagel’s style, the
Mountain Hawks headed in their first goal, right off the cross-
bar.

The second half kicked off over an increasingly slick
field, the result of several hours’ constant rainfall. The ad-
verse conditions would initially prove in Lehigh’s favor, as
goalie Christy Carry ’12 lost control of a rocket shot in the
60th minute. The Mountain Hawks capitalized on the unset-
tled situation, taking over the lead with a rebound shot to the
upper 90.

But the ’Cats refused to let up on this rainy evening. Both
teams frequently launched shots from beyond the 18-yard
marker, hoping for an unusual bounce or rebound in the wet
conditions. With time desperately ticking away, Bye-Nagel
sought this approach into the box in the 78" minute. After
several Lehigh deflections, Stephanie Gerow °12 soared
across the top of the box, nailing the tying goal off the goal-
ie’s outstretched arms.

The ’Cats reversed the game’s momentum after Gerow’s
first ever college goal. Heading into overtime, Davidson cap-

il
En

tured the crowd with dynamic offensive skills. With water
glistening off the field, the home team offense slipped sev-
eral shots from the top, only to be halted by the determined
goalie. Two 10-minute periods later, the ‘Cats came up with
their second tie of the season.

The conditions of tournament game two, versus the Rich-
mond Spiders, could not have been any more different. At
three o’clock in the afternoon, the mid-summer sun scorched
the field, boosted by a fatiguing jolt of humidity. Davidson
was met by a fierce Richmond team who entered the con-
test with a 3-1 record and were riding the momentum of last
year’s NCAA tournament bid.

The ’Cats played undaunted, in their typically composed
fashion, as the teams combined for 11 first half shots. In a
stalemate as suppressive as the heat, Tracy McClausland
?09 broke through with a soaring shot from the 18-yard line.
Scraping off the Richmond goalie’s hand, the ball ricocheted
off the crossbar, right into Katharine Laco ’10. Laco sent a
gutsy shot toward the near post, which dropped over the out-
of-position goalie into the net.

As the second half opened, the Spiders brought out a
new-found aggression on offense. It was wild, relentless and
out-of-control fast.

Davidson responded with conservatism, finding seams
left open by the chaotic attack. But Richmond’s intense strat-
egy eventually paid off with 1] minutes to go, tying up the
game with a top-corner laser.

In the final ten minutes, Carry deflected several corners
and fast breaks from an offense that appeared unstoppable.
The home crowd breathed a sigh of relief as the siren sig-

See Women’s soccer, page 14

——s

‘PLAY OF THE WEEK

Perry’s late goal propels ‘Cats to
first victory of season

Midfielder Britti Himelfarb ‘o9 sent a pass to Claire
Perry ‘11 at the top of the box with three minutes re-
maining in regulation and the sophomore’s shot found
the back of the net to give the Wildcats a 3-2 victory
over Georgetown for their first win of the season. The
goal was Perry's first of her collegiate career.

The freshman midfielder earned NorPac Rookie of the
Week Honors after knotching a goal and two assists in
Saturday's 4-2 victory over previously undefeated
Virginia Commonwealth.

