8

THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 12, 2008

BASKETBALL PREVIEW

11/17, Norman, OK,

NIT Season Tip-off

An opportunity for Davidson to flex its
muscles en route to facing Oklahoma
in their backyard. The Dukes are

Se

predicted to finish 9th in the CAA.

11/18, Norman, OK The winner of the Oklahoma
NIT Season Tip-off Regional advances to Madison
Should both the ’Cats and Sooners Square Garden forthesemifinals
win their first round games they will over Thanksgiving weekend.

meet on ESPN at 9:30 p.m. Pre- Davidson would likely face
season All-American Blake Griffin Arizona or UAB.

leads #12 Oklahma in what will
present an early season test for the
Cats. |

SPORTING sears.

11/21, Belk Arena
Picked first in the
BigSouth by a coaches/ gape
media poll, the Winthrop
Eagles have made four
consecutive trips to the
NCAA Tourney, including
a first round upset of Notre ®&
Dame in 2007. The Eagles
seek revenge for last year’s
BracketBuster loss.

.
12/9, Madison Square Garden,

New York, NY, Jimmy V Classic "W-
Replacing Joe Alexander and PG 2
Darris Nichols will be difficult. Is

6’9” frosh forward Devin Ebanks up to the task? Time
will tell, but the Mountaineers were picked 9th of 16

in a strong Big East polls. They will face Davidson
in one of basketball’s most storied palaces.

e

DAVvit

om

12/6, Time Warner IN
Cable Arena, =

Charlotte

Can the ’Cats avenge last year’s

1-point loss at the RBC center? Can

they claim there first win at Time

Ww. fter t h fight inst Sleepers: Western Carolina, Georgia Southem
amer alter tough lignts agains Best Player not named Stephen Curry: -

UNC and Duke? #» Stephen McDowell, Chattanooga
__.,. Best Coach not named Bob McKillop:
Larry Hunter, Western Carolina ; :

12/20, Indianapolis, IN
Wooden Tradition

3. Georgia S Southern

Pe eeiee! 6 Phe Citadel —
Top Challenger: ‘Chattanooga

Purdue was picked first in the Big 10 preseason
coaches’ poll. Three-point threats Keaton Grant,
E’Twaun Moore and Robbie Hummel (Preseason Big
10 Player of the Year) will give the ’Cats a challenge
as Christmas approaches.

1/7, Durham, NC

Frank Ben-Eze- Was one of the most sought after recruits in the country and chose Davidson
7 Entering the season with the #5 ranking over Georgia Tech and Stanford. The big man will add depth to a front court depleted by the

: : . graduations of Thomas Sander ’08 and Boris Meno ’09. Ben-Eze helped Nigeria to the FIBA
\ in national polls, the Devils are loaded Nationals cup in 2006.
with young talent and ready for a title Ben Allison- Reshirted last year and now is expected provide frontcourt depth for the ’Cats after

the graduation of Thomas Sander ’08. Allison has added 18 Ibs. since last season and average
11.5 points and 6.4 rebounds per game for Great Britain in Under-20 European Championships

run. Kyle Singler and Jon Scheyer

return to lead a strong freshmen class last summer.
: : Bond-Reshirt i fill the voi ichards. Th
that includes F Miles Plumlee and PG Aaaron ond eshirted last year and will help e void left by the departed Richards. The
: athletic wing player was forced out of action due to a shoulder injury last season, but should see
Nolan Smith time in the backcourt this season after appering in six games last year.

William Riegel- One of two freshman walk-ons on the team. The 64” guard earned all-state
honors as a senior at Charlotte Latin.

A.J.Atkinson-Joins Reigel as a walk-on on this year’s team. His father, Alvin, played football
for the Wildcats from 1977-1980.

EB Lcd AR eS, Sv et reams sare
