8

: Ii is , poker night for Davidson's S. . administration. Deans
- and staff sit in a smoky room, sunglasses on, cards face-
down on the green table. One player throws in a scrap 0
paper with the words.““Kappa Sigma Phi” scrawled across
it. Another throws down the deed to the /Sigma Alph
Epsilon” house. .” ees
© Or maybe our administration ‘plays the game of musical
- fraternities. Last one to sit down gets kicked off campus
for a year. Wheel- of-Fortune? Sorry, Pi Kappa Alpha; this
time you're bankrupt.
© Many students believe: that the Davidson's big wigs
have it out for Patterson Court, the fraternities in particu-_
lar. Every decision and every mandate handed down from.
on high seems to bring the Court one step closer to oblit-.
eration. The majority of us do not understand it - it might :
as well be a game of eraps. :
- Most recently, Sigma Phi Epsilon has found itself in the ©
deep end without their floaties on. Again. To say that fra-
ternities do not screw up and never deserve punishment
would certainly be wrong, but SigEp’s most recent fiasco
just does not make sense. For one thing, the SigEp event.
was completely non-alcoholic. What's even stranger is
that the frat is only just now being held accountable for an
incident that occurred during Self-Selection Night, the
first. weekend of the semester. Maybe this scheduling
#issue is not the administration's fault, but how are we, the:
_ Students, to know? 74
» SigEp has received their formal charges but has chosen
to keep them confidential until they receive permission to :
_ share the information. SigEp members want to encourage ©
better relations between themselves and the administra-
tion, but the rest of us continue to speculate what in the
= world the fraternity could have done to warrant another é
-.trial mere weeks after its year-long suspension. -
_« Popular opinion is that the whole trial is a conspiracy
. against the Court, that it is meant to phase out Greek life
“on campus gradually. We all know that several members
of the faculty have expressed their aversion for both fra-
»ternities and eating houses, and perhaps this is just ne 5
_ administration acting out the faculty's wishes. eo
Whether or not this is the case, there is no doubt of a
isconnect between students and the rest of the Davidson
- community regarding to Patterson Court. Regular faculty-
» student exchanges have addressed such issues over the
: last few months, but they haven't reduced massive student.
_ cynicism that has escalated over the last few years.
-2 © SigEp’s trial has been scheduled for next Thursday,
“May. 1, at 7 p.m. and will be open to the public. We
encourage concerned students to support the organization

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX LIBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
Laura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
Arts & Living Editors
Jennifer Errington & Caroline Wood

mos Yow! Editors »-
~ James Boswell & Alex Hoyt -
Sports Editors v7
= Mike Frongello & Patrick McArdle’
Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman
Business, Advertising and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

OK eee ais pee
QZ he D Davidsonian i is published ‘Wednesda
| by the students of Davidson College, One copy per student. Pleas

Es

a address all correspondences to:,. The Davidsonian, BO B

"editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect. the views of the.
. Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions cost $50.00 per

Sd

TIVES

LETTER TO THE EDITOR °

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
ApRIL 23, 2008

|

~

HIV/ AIDS posters play important role

In her April 16, 2008 editorial, Laura Van Oudenaren crit-
icizes the Student Health Center posters promoting HIV test-
ing. Here are some facts she should consider: Today,
HIV/AIDS is the sixth leading cause of death among all
women in the U.S. between the ages of 25 and 34.
HIV/AIDS is also the leading cause of death among women
of color in the U.S. between the ages of 25 and 34.

Roughly 80 percent of women newly infected with HIV in _

the U.S. are exposed to the virus through heterosexual con-
tact. Today, approximately half of all new infections in the
US. occur in people under 25 years of age.

Does the poster suggest that a confident, trendy woman
may be HIV-positive? Yes. Does the poster suggest that a
woman who wears make-up may be HIV-positive? Yes. Does
the poster suggest that a woman with a nose piercing may be
HIV-positive? Yes. In fact, the poster suggests that every
woman who is sexually active may be HIV-positive and
should be tested. That is the message this poster conveys.

Ms. Van Oudenaren concludes by contending that the
poster "damages the image of the school." I contend that
knowing one's HIV status and preventing even a single new
HIV infection greatly outweighs any concerns about image.

David R. Wessner, Ph.D.
Associate Professor of Bio logy

Burton, Cook distort issue of low GPAs

ALISSA IREI
Guest Columnist

Last week, in response to the Student Government
Association's recent report finding Davidson's mean GPA to
be the lowest of 11 of its peer institutions, two members of
our academic community wrote unconvincing and, at times,
overtly insulting critiques of student concerns about possible
grade “deflation,” and the overall competitiveness of
Davidson and its students.

First, Kevin Cook articulated an infuriatingly offensive
and embarrassingly ill-reasoned argument in which he
likened the Davidson student body to “someone running a
race, coming in last and then claiming that the only reason
they did so badly is because their shoes slowed them down.”
He dismissed the notion that Davidson's relatively low mean
GPA is due to grade deflation here or grade inflation at other
schools, chalking it up instead to poor performance.

Sadly, Cook seems to believe that Davidson students are
either lazier or less intelligent than their peers. Or both. If
Cook aimed to insult Davidson students, faculty and alumni,
then I applaud his success. And while he implies that he is
disappointed in the Davidson student body, I, as a Davidson
student, am wholeheartedly disappointed in him. If the opin-
ions Cook presented last week are truly his own, then I ques-
tion his judgment in choosing to remain at an institution he
holds in such low esteem, amongst people in whom he has
such little faith.

Cook continues, “The problem is that most Davidson stu-
dents have never been to another institution. We can not say
definitively, one way or the other, if an English class at
Richmond or Duke is graded the’ same way it is here.”
Having transferred from the University of Southern
California Thematic Option honors program, I can attest to
the fact that an A at Davidson is not the same as an A at all
other schools. Not by a longshot. I know transfers from
schools around the country — Haverford, Boston College and
Georgia Tech among others— who make similar claims.

Our esteemed former SGA President Chris Burton wrote a
letter to the editor in which he exhorted us to stop question-
ing our institution of higher learning and its lower mean
GPA, and simply “Trust the Davidson education.” I would
argue, however, that the most vital lesson we can take from
our studies in the liberal arts is to refrain from investing
blind trust in anything. There is no virtue in accepting the
status quo without exploration, comment or question. If
there were, then there would be scant reason for this or any
other liberal arts college to exist. An education in which
there is no room for questions is an education on which I
would waste neither my time nor my money.

In his defense of the status quo at Davidson, Burton
asserts that recent graduates have “secured great jobs in the
Charlotte financial district.” This is undoubtedly both true
and admirable, and most Charlotte-dwellers are inevitably
familiar with our institution.

However, the Davidson community now boasts a student
body with increasing geographic diversity. Gone are the
days when all of Davidson students hailed from the
Carolinas. And while Davidson is ostensibly fulfilling its
ambition to take its place as a national rather than regional
school, the fact remains that in much of the country
Davidson is not yet a “name.” I believe with total confidence
that the day will soon dawn when a Davidson man (or

woman) will need no introduction. But that day is not today,
and it will likely not be a year from today when my class-
mates and I apply for jobs and graduate school admission on
the West Coast as well as the East.

Fortunately, as Burton suggests, our education and experi:
ences here are preparing us to make our own introductions,
whether in California or Connecticut, even if our reputation
does not yet precede us. Still, forging our way into our
futures would be less daunting were we not both a.) explain-
ing to potential employers where we received our education
(“it's a small liberal arts college about twenty minutes out-
side of Charlotte, North Carolina”) and b.) justifying our
GPAs. This is assuming that we first land the job or admis-
sions interview and thus the opportunity to a.) explain and b.)
justify.

A grade does not necessarily
reflect academic rigor, nor is it
capable of representing all a stu-
dent has or has not learned.

I truly believe in this college and in the other people who
call it home. I am proud of the education I have received
here. And I hope it goes without saying that “Ultimately,
when we graduate, each of us is better and more informed
than we were when we graduated from high school,” as
Burton claims. What does not go without saying is that
Davidson should stubbornly cling to a grading ethic that, if
not deflation in fact, is deflation for all intents and purposes.

If Davidson graduates are competing against job and grad-
uate school applicants from better known schools with high-
er GPAs, then it is small consolation that we hail from the
only school in our peer group that is using the right grading
system, whatever “right” might mean. It seems reasonable
that everyone affiliated with Davidson—faculty, alumni and.
even students like Burton and Cook— would want Davidson
graduates to be as competitive as possible in the “real
world.” Right now, our lower GPAs are not necessarily bar-
ring us from success, but they are not helping us either.

Furthermore, it is a mistake to assume that adjusting the
college's attitudes toward grades will be to the detriment of
students’ attitudes toward learning. A grade does not neces-
sarily reflect academic rigor, nor is it capable of representing
all a student has or has not learned. How can one letter tell a
whole story? If anything, 1 would argue that Davidson's
grade deflation (or absence of inflation, if you will) encour-
ages a grade-centric, some might say grade-obsessed, envi-
ronment. It creates a mercenary culture in which learning for
the sake of learning is sacrificed to studying for a material
reward.

Ultimately, the issue at stake is not who is deflating and
who is inflating their grades. To discuss grade inflation and
deflation in this manner suggests that there is some
irrefutable norm or standard to which all academic institu-
tions should adhere. But defending such an argument is an
exercise in futility. A grade is a human construction designed
to measure something that is ultimately immeasurable. It is a
symbol. It is arbitrary. Ceci n'est pas une pipe.

Alissa Irei ’09 is a Political Science major from Scottsdale,
Az. Contact her at alirei@davidson.edu.
