ra hundred. oe €” presidents calling
lawmakers to lower the drinking age to 18,one mighlssped

bounds of previous years. a4 majority Of st:
aa had a-lower drinking age ‘suggest sf at. college-a;

The Davbidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
#4, Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
: News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
«Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
we» Arts & Living Editors
fs “Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yowl Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors ©
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis ~~
Head Copy Editers fea
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley é
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

Mario SILVA
Guest Writer

Many issues surround the education of America’s youth
such as teacher pay, adequate resources and prayer in school.
One of the most important is sexual education.

Sexual education directly affects the lives of tens of
millions of young Americans. Policymakers must enact
programs based on scientifically-verified results.

Sexual education programs falls along a continuum
between abstinence-only, which make no mention of
contraception apart from its failings, and comprehensive
sexual education, with no mention of abstinence. Abstinence-
only education has been the standard for the past 20 years in
America. ;

Thankfully, the trend is changing.

It is vital that the United States abandons abstinence-
only education in schools and provides scientifically accurate
information about sex and contraception. This issue must
be dictated by scientifically verified results, not religion or
personal bias.

The importance of sexual education should be obvious,
but to illustrate its magnitude, consider HIV/AIDS and
unwanted teen pregnancy. On both of these issues abstinence-
only education is ineffective.

A non-partisan National Institute of Health panel
concluded “that education efforts that focus on safer sex
practices rather than abstinence-only programs are effective
in reducing risky sexual behavior in adolescent and adult
populations.”

This conclusion was not based on politics, religion or the
personal feelings of the panel members, rather, it was based
on rigorous research and reviewed by hundreds of scientists.

Congress has also taken issue with abstinence-only
education. A congressional review found that abstinence
programs were providing inaccurate information about the
“effectiveness of contraception, the risks of abortion and
other scientific errors.” The programs in question were used
throughout 25 states in the fiscal year of 2003.

A study on “virginity pledges” conducted by Claire
Brindis found that of the 11 percent of males and 13 percent of
females nationally who had signed such a pledge, 88 percent
had sex before marriage. Furthermore, they “were less likely
to use condoms at first sex as compared with nonpledgers (40
percent versus 59 percent), and were far more likely to get an
STD” (Brindis).

Another example of the failure of abstinence-only
education is Texas’ sexual education program. Nationwide,
the instances of teen pregnancy have been falling since 1991.

THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 17, 2008

Abstinence education: a moral failure

Laura Beil, in an article in the July 18, 2007 issue of the New
York Times, stated that Texas has seen the smallest decrease
while receiving the most federal money for abstinence-only
sex education. Beil also wrote that three states (Colorado,
Iowa and Washington) have recently adopted laws requiring
state funded sex education to be based on “research” or
“science,” perhaps because of the negative example set by
Texas.

Thankfully, some states are beginning to realize the benefit
of scientifically vetted sexual education. This should serve
as example to the rest of the nation to continue to support
proven sexual education.

é

Thankfully, some states are beginning

to realize the benefit of scientifically

vetted sexual education. This should

serve as an example to the rest of the

nation to continue to support proven
sexual education.

Successful sexual education, however, does not mean
advocating sex. Nor does it mean denying any mention of
abstinence. The consequences of sexual promiscuity should
never be discarded.

Abstinence should be offered as part of a range of
options. Nevertheless, to protect young people from the
negative consequences of sex, more information about sex
and contraception should be provided. According to Brindis,
this will increase the likelihood they will use safer sexual
practices and will not increase the likelihood they will have
Sex.

In order to stem the tide of STDs—including HIV—and
unwanted teen pregnancies, policy makers must listen to
evidence. They must use the conclusions of these experts to
formulate programs that work, regardless of whether those
programs conflict with their personal or religious views.

To knowingly continue to use ineffective methods in
this instance is a moral failure. Allowing young Americans
to become infected with life threatening STDs and become
pregnant at an early age is a moral failure.

I urge you to write your congress person or senator and
demand comprehensive sexual education.

Mario Silva ’09 is a music major from Brownsville, Texas.
Contact him at masilva@davidson.edu.

‘Cultural catastrophe’ a false alarm

JOHN EVANS =
Guest Writer

First, I applaud Ryan Gough for his insightful comments
on the current state of art. He writes with deep personal
concern not for the benefit of himself, but for the well being
of our culture. Yet I must say, and I believe many would agree,
that culture cannot be reduced so narrowly to a dichotomy of
good and bad. In fact, one can safely argue that the terms
“good” and “bad” ought not even exist in the artist’s lexicon.
I offer these terms up as sacrifice to morality, though I’m not
even sure that they merit a place in that nebula either.

The “kitsch culture” that Gough denounces is certainly in
poor taste, but should it give us sufficient cause for worry?
To speak of an end to “good” culture is more or less like
arguing against the Socratic idea of the soul’s immortality:
one can find ample evidence to refute his theory, but actual
knowledge regarding such matters ultimately outstrips our
grasp.

We ought to bear in mind that culture's
historic worth, not its intrinsic value,
must come from the collective thoughts
and feelings of its members.

If we at first find fault with the art which arises out of
a given culture, we should not immediately renounce the
creation itself, but rather examine the source of its origination
in the habits and ideologies of individual groups and persons.
Cultures both redevelop and rechannel themselves in an
impossible number of ways. They are unpredictable and
dynamic. Stated crudely, they are the markets of our minds.

As such, it does not seem at all helpful to speak of a

culture’s “end.” Perhaps an intellectual living in the Middle
Ages believed culture to be coming to an “end” when
looking back at the past golden age of antiquity. But that is
precisely how they rebounded: they looked back over their
artistic shoulders for inspiration from the past. Admire what
may come of the present, but always look back at what has
been done well. While staring across that great corpus of
innovation, gaze over it, and recognize that the future waits
just beyond the past. But we ought to bear in mind that
culture’s historic worth, not its intrinsic value, must come
from the collective thoughts and feelings of its members.
But such a weighty issue could not possibly be addressed
successfully in volumes of analysis, let alone an editorial in a
student-run newspaper.

There is no such thing as “cultural
apocalypse.” I would not part with a
cent for something that announces the
end of imagination.

With regards to art, though, I would like to extol the
importance of its dynamism. Necessarily, art changes by
the evolution of human concerns and predilections. If plays
and poetry were the accomplishments of earlier artistry, and
novels of the modern era, then perhaps the cinema is our
great triumph. Who can really know? But there is no such
thing as a “cultural apocalypse.” I would not part with a cent
for something that announces the end of imagination. Show
me a work of art that once again returns to those fountains of
original creation from which the ancients drank, and I will
pay millions for it.

John Evans ’11 is an English and Classics major from
Atlanta, Ga. Contact him at joevans @davidson.edu.
