‘ketball, spark great interest. on Davidson’s campus. Beside:
th addition, of" ‘exciting new’ freshmen. and coaches, thi

sen to end up in the best seats,i
‘stud he ted seat sections and ofter

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
é Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
te News Editors
*» Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
f° ~<, Perspectives Editors
“Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
i Arts & Living Editors
' Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley
Business, Advertising and Cireulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright
Online Editor |
Greg Newman wv’
a
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors

Content Manager
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

TIVES

i FESS ee

‘THE DAVIDSONIAN
‘WEDNESDAY,
OcroserR 1, 2008

¢ LETTER TO THE Epitor °

Town of Davidson responsible in development

Andrew Evans’ article “Town maps development”
(9/25/08) is a good description of the Town of Davidson’s
commitment to excellent planning.

In my nearly 60 year relationship with this town, its lead-
ers have always exhibited the courage to do what’s right for
the community.

In recent years, some have criticized our town for being
unfriendly to development. This is not true. We welcome the
most responsible, highest quality development with the dis-
tinction that the development will be completed in keeping
with the town’s design guidelines, and not neccisarily in the
way the developer may be used to doing his or her work.

Want a practical example? Compare the CVS Pharmacy
in downtown Mooresville to the one here in Davidson.

As a side note, Mr. Evans’ article refered to a consultant,
Meredith Judy, who is working to assist the Town’s develop-
ment of a comprehensive plan. Meredith is a 1999 Davidson
College graduate, who began her career in urban planning
as an intern in the Town’s Planning Department. We liked
her so much, we gave her a part-time job that grew into a
full-time job. Now, with several years of experience, she has

just graduated with a masters degree in urban planning from
M.LT.

I would like to encourage all Davidson students to get to
know the community around you. The Town of Davidson is
a great learning laboratory for urban planning, architectural
design and non-profit agency support of those in need. Get
to know us! Get involved!

John Woods
Mayor, Town of Davidson

Obama calm in debate, McCain hawkish

LaurRA SHILLINGBURG
Guest Writer

Friday night’s long-awaited debate gave voters clear in-
sights into our Presidential candidates.

In the face of McCain’s bragging, immature and bullish
behavior, Obama’s demeanor was refreshing. Obama offered
specifics when he addressed each issue, whereas McCain
mentioned unrelated experiences and key words without de-
tails.

Speaking on economics, Obama referenced his detailed
plans for change. Ninety-five percent of Americans will re-
ceive tax cuts; large corporations and the wealthy will lose
their undeserved loopholes and breaks. We’ll build an infra-
structure that will help America grow strong again.

By contrast, McCain offered only unspecific reductions
in spending that will not make up for the $300 billion in tax
cuts he’ll offer the wealthiest. He argues that the workers of
America are strong.

Even if you believe his recent assertion that “the funda-
mentals of the economy” has always referred to “the work-

rs,” that doesn’t explain why those workers have struggled
for months, not merely since Wall Street’s problems started.

On foreign policy, Obama proved that he’s not naive and

Our president needs to be able to
handle several crises at once. John
McCain has just proven that he is
incapable of doing so and may put
other needs before country, such as
promoting his own image.

answered questions insightfully. McCain, on the other hand,
acted superior, even dismissive. Worryingly, McCain stub-
bomly clung to Iraq as the main issue.

"Can we say “justification of effort?” He’s supported this
travesty since the beginning. To justify his decision, he must
now convince everyone he was right, despite evidence to the
contrary.

He claims we’re winning. If that’s true, shouldn’t vio-
lence levels be even lower? The original argument for the
surge was that it would offer breathing room. It may have
done that, but that does not indicate anything close to victory.
Frighteningly, this is the man who might end up leading the
nation’s military.

McCain claims experience, declaring Obama “doesn’t
understand,” because he’s new. He understands plenty, as he
showed during the debate. What’s more, McCain’s “experi-
ence” has made him cocky. Obama will listen to expert opin-
ions and use them to make the wisest decisions.

For all McCain’s experience in warfare and politics, he
was sneering and refused to follow the rules of the debate. He
even went so far as to ignore, several times, moderator Jim
Lehrer’s attempts to move on.

In a crisis, a president who can soldier on is great, but
during a debate it’s rude and unnecessary—which doesn’t
say much for his ability to be diplomatic when meeting with

leaders around the world. Obama listened and responded
thoughtfully, not repeating recycled material.

McCain’s poor showing at this debate only underlines his
recent failure in other areas. For years he’s supported deregu-
lation on Wall Street, and only now does he support tighter
restrictions. Better regulation might have mitigated the cur-
rent crisis, if not prevented it.

He tried to cancel this presidential debate for political
reasons. Claiming to put the country first, he allegedly sus-
pended his campaign. Yet, ads ran, Palin gave speeches, and
he himself gave an interview.

Our president needs to be able to handle several crises
at once. John McCain has just proven that he is incapable
of doing so and may put other needs before country, such as
promoting his own image.

He calls himself a maverick, but clearly his dictionary
differs from most, as he’s supported the Bush economic and
foreign policy plans and continues to do so.

His running mate is no better. She accepted gifts from oil
companies around the time she was making legislation deal-
ing with their interests.

McCain says his plan to stay in Iraq for a hundred years
will technically entail just a military base presence, and not
active combat involvement.

He says he wants US soldiers “out of harm’s way.” While
there are lots of other bases, in places such as Japan and Ger-
many, that no one worries about, soldiers based in Baghdad
would remain under threat from suicide bombs for quite
some time.

Furthermore, establishing a base without the Iraqi gov-
ernment’s consent would be viewed as a colonization at-
tempt, creating distrust and anger among people who would
otherwise support us.

Finally, with McCain’s plan, we may not be able to ade-
quately address the areas that need our attention most: where
Al Qaeda is most active, in Afghanistan and Pakistan.

He calls himself a maverick, but
clearly his dictionary differs from
most, as he’s supported the Bush eco-
nomic and foreign policy plans and
continues to do so.

McCain has proven yet again that he is overly self-confi-
dent and unwilling to consider what’s best for our country —
only what’s best for his image.

We cannot trust that he will listen to reasonable advice
instead of just assuming he knows what is best. If we want
our country to be admired around the world in the future, or
even feel safe within its borders, we cannot afford to elect
McCain as president.

We need someone who will strengthen our economy and
our workforce, while diplomatically improving our relations
abroad and keeping us secure. We need Barack Obama.

Laura Shillingburg ’09 is a theatre major from Atlanta,
Ga. Contact her at lashillingburg @davidson.edu
