10 THE DAVIDSONIAN

By CHLOE MAURO
Guest Writer

Halfway through my 11-hour flight on
Turkish Air, the flight attendants stopped
making their announcements in English and
instead used only Turkish. As we began our
final approach into Istanbul all 1 could see
was the silhouettes of minarets. I realized
then how different my four months abroad
would be from my semesters at Davidson.

The Islamic holy month of Ramadan,
when devout Muslims fast from sunrise until
sunset, began the day after I arrived, and I
have never felt so glaringly American in my
life. When the last call to prayer finally rang
out across the city of Istanbul on those
nights, everything stopped for the breaking
of fast. People in all walks of life could be
seen shoveling food into their mouths.

Almost everything I encountered in

01 STUDY ABROAD
Expenencing religion in secular Turkish society

Istanbul was vibrantly different from any-
where else I had traveled. Traffic was end-
less and the taxi drivers absolutely fearless.
Taksim Square, the center of the European
side of the city, was crowded at any hour of
the day or night, while bars and discos were
open all night long.

Perhaps the most breathtaking part of
Istanbul was Sultanahment, the old city.
Once you cross Galata Bridge into
Sultanahment, it feels as though you have
been immediately transported to the days of
the Ottoman sultans. Mosques dating back to
the 16th century are on every corner, and one
of the greatest wonders is the Aya Sofya, a
Byzantine church that was converted into a
mosque by the Ottomans. My first weekend,
I learned how to bargain in the Grand
Bazaar, a covered labyrinth of thousands of
stalls selling everything from tourist goods
to Ottoman antiques.

L’amour at second sight

By GRACE MITCHELL
Guest Writer

After arriving by train at the Gare
Montparnasse one cloudy, chilly Sunday
afternoon in mid-August, I selected the
wrong exit from the dozens of choices in the
station and ended up in a startlingly green
park enclosed by high-rise buildings. Hoping
to avoid the metro after getting lost in the
maze of the station, I began walking, travel-
weary and with only a vague knowledge of
where I was going.

Then I caught a brief sighting of the Eiffel
Tower and remembered that I was in the
much-adored city of Paris, France.

I stayed in the sixteenth arrondissement of
Paris for four nights with a sixty-some year
old woman, Elisabeth, who lived in a mid-
size apartment, of which every centimeter of
floor space was masked by towers of books
and papers, clumps of cat hair and crumbs of
cat litter. Elisabeth, having broken her elbow
in June, had lived her summer days sitting in
a reclining chair watching television; she
could not read due to her cataracts. I passed
an interesting few days cooking with her,
washing our dishes with vinegar, guiding her
through the metro and the markets and
attempting to clean her apartment until the
vacuum cleaner started burning.

Later I'found myself back in the heart of
Paris. The sun decided to shine through
September, and I was pleasantly situated in a
program with a group of students all ready to
make new friends. Yet, I didn’t speak French
and had no idea why I had come to Paris.

Weeks passed as I explored the cobble-
stone streets of Montmarte with new friends,
some cooing over the fact that, “Oh! Can you
believe it? We’re in Paris. Ah, and right here
is the park where Renoir painted that scene!”
I rolled my eyes when reading Dr. Urbino’s
enchanting memories of autumnal Paris in
“Love in the Time of Cholera” with its chest-

r They would ask.
as Tegistered to o mie;

Bet Ol Un

fortune were not

nuts, accordions and lovers. I was disgusted
by the romanticized images that everyone
seemed to hold of Europe. Yes it was nice,
but it was just another place, right?

By October, I began to realize that I, too,
was really enjoying myself in Paris.

Yes, perhaps I should have gone some-
where else, and yes, I still do wonder what I
was doing there, but I_was happy. My real-
ization of my enjoyment occurred quite sud-
denly and unexpectedly —I had fallen in love
with Euro-ness.

I loved that they spoke in languages that I
can only hope to know. I loved that waiters
didn’t bring checks to tables until asked. I
loved Euro eyewear, bicycles, trains, people
rollerblading around the city in packs on
Friday nights, baguettes as well as the
Parisian obsession with baguettes and Euros
that were widely available as coins.

I disclosed my newfound love to a friend,
who wrote back to me, “If you can fall in
love with a place that you have no reason to
be in, then you should not have any problem
loving a place where you should be...Keep
enjoying the life in Paris.”

“Yes,” I thought. “I'l do that.”

Adventurously, I took a new bus route, a
mode of transportation that I usually deem
too complicated. I felt great happiness trav-
eling through unknown arrondissements in
the daylight as curious children pet my cor-
duroy pants. From then on, I took the bus
more frequently, attempted to master the
French language, continued unnecessary
purchases of fragrant cheeses at my neigh-
borhood fromagerie and feasted upon. the
Parisian grapes that chef Julia Child has
most accurately deemed “delicate, fugitive,
sweet, ambrosial, and irresistible.” I still got
frustrated with the silly romanticizing of
things that were, after all, just things, but
thankfully I was no longer preoccupied with
opposing such thinking. Finally, I was able
simply to enjoy my time in Paris.

For four months, I lived in one of Bogazici
University’s dormitories with three Turkish
roommates in a room not much bigger than
the one I had in sophomore apartments last
year. Although the lack of personal space
was extremely frustrating at times, my
Turkish roommates taught me the most about
Turkey. They were so interested and eager to
get to know me that one of them even invit-
ed me to go home with her one weekend to
Izmir, a city on the Aegean coast about
seven-hour bus trip. The entire time I was
there I never stopped being amazed at the
hospitality of the Turkish people. The four
other people on my program and I were con-
stantly invited into the homes of people that
we met and fed to the point of being coma-
tose. They all wanted to share their part of
Turkey with me, to educate the American.

While I spent part of my time teaching
English to second-graders and volunteering

bins,

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 30, 2008

with refugees, much of my time in Turkey
was dedicated to an independent research
project in which I focused on religious and
secular issues regarding headscarves.

I would never say that making the choice
to study somewhere so different from the
States wasn’t terrifying: I was scared. There
were times when I wished I had gone to
Europe with the rest of my Davidson friends,
but the things that I saw and the things I
learned to do for myself were exceptional.
Especially with the current trend towards
radical Islamism throughout the Middle
East, I got the unique experience of living in
a secular Muslim country and gained a better
understanding of how this unfamiliar reli-
gion interacts with government, pop culture
and everyday life. For those applying to
abroad programs right now, I would certain-
ly recommend Istanbul, but wherever you
go, do not be afraid to test your own limits.

Once a Byzantine church, the Ottoman empire converted the Aya Sofya, pictured
above, into an Islamic mosque.

What I learmmed in Spain,

kindergartener-style

By SALLY STEPHENSON
Guest Writer

Many nearly sleepless nights, thought-pro-
voking classes and even the Davidson-Duke
basketball game punctuated my semester in
Madrid. That doesn’t seem so exotic, so why
did I bother to go abroad when I could have
had the same experience right here in North
Carolina, j verdad?

Well, the last time I checked, my lack of
sleep at Davidson does not come from danc-
ing the night away (in clubs that don’t even
open until Patterson Court is shutting down)
or from riding a bus across the country (not
just Exit 36).

As valuable as our time at Davidson is ~
and if it weren’t for you Wildcats, I’d still be
in Madrid — I believe that a semester abroad
is necessary. It’s a time to break out of the
proverbial burbuja (bubble) and enjoy the
things that this college can’t provide. But
jojo! Just because you’re not chained to a
carrel does not mean you won’t be learning
while you’re abroad!

What I learned in Spain, kindergartener-
style:

1. Nine p.m. is still considered afternoon,
not night.

»2. The more trash on the floor of a tapas
bar, the better.

3. Just because you have claimed an empty
park bench to study on does not mean that
five smoking, yelling friends will not
squeeze you off the end... even when there
are three empty benches nearby.

4. There is no word for “awkward.”

5. PDA is OK.

6. There is such a thing as wine in juice
boxes, sippy straw included. They aren’t too
bad.

And I'll leave you with some highlights of
my semester:

Noche en Blanco. An event where the city
Stays awake all night to participate in 178
cultural events, including concerts, street
dances, museums, light shows, poetry read-
ings, etc. Standing in front of Picasso’s
“Guernica” at 2 a.m. makes it even more
shocking.

Noche de Campanas. One night, all of the
bells in the churches in the old part of
Madrid rang at once. It was drizzling, and I
followed a procession of people with
umbrellas as we wandered from church to
church, guided by the sound. Some bells
clanged like kitchen pots while others rang
deeply and sonorously.

Buisqueda de Setas. I scrambled up banks
and under fences after my 65-year-old host
mom on her search for mushrooms in the
countryside.

E] Coro. I joined a choir of local universi-
ty students and adults. We sang in front of
the Royal Palace, glowing -regally on a
December night. As we concluded our con-
cert with Handel’s Halleluiah Chorus, I
looked out through my breath, visible in the
crisp air, at the crowd of hundreds of smiling
faces. The evening continued as 15 of us
sang Christmas carols all the way up Gran
Via. We finished the night with a four-hour
dinner with the entire choir, everyone break-
ing into song every 10 minutes.

Ei Camino. I hiked for two days straight to
complete 100 km (62 miles) of the Camino
de Santiago. At night, I walked under the
stars and the Milky Way, just like the old pil-
grims, and I could see that they guided me
toward the city of Santiago de Compostela.

I think you’ll agree, these are things I
could not have done at Davidson.
