2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Katie LOVETT
Staff Writer

Author of “Ecology of Cracker Child-
hood”, Janisse Ray, visited the Davidson
campus last Sunday night to share a lecture
that exhibited her passion for and commit-
ment to the environment. The class of 2012
will certainly recall Ray’s award-winning
memoir from the freshman orientation book
discussions. But for those who are less famil-
iar with the work, it is an account of Ray’s
isolated childhood in a junkyard along U.S.
Highway 1 and the development of her desire
to save the disappearing longleaf pine eco-
system that once defined the South.

Titled “Nature, Community, and the
Life We Dream,” Janisse Ray’s lecture com-
menced with the reading of an excerpt from
the book that won both the American Book
Award and the Southeastern Booksellers As-
sociation Book Award for Nonfiction. The
author related that “the richest life is one
that daily embraces nature” and proceeded
to comment on how the fragmentation of the
natural landscape is mirrored in human soci-
ety through war, broken families and com-
munities where neighbors do not even know
one another.

“T’m often described as an activist. People
introduce me as a dirt worshipping tree hug-
ger,” Ray said, “but I’m not simply a member
of some environmental movement. I’m not
only trying to stop drilling in ANWR, call at-
tention to the dangers of spent nuclear fuel or
restore the Everglades. I believe in life and
the possibility and hope for the best life pos-
sible.”

The passionate environmental advocate

NEws
In search of a different America, with Ja anisse Ray

then encouraged the members of the audi-
ence to ask themselves what it means to be
fully human. “Gandhi once said, ‘big prob-
lems need small solutions’; you young think-
ers, you young visionaries, you can do so
much good,” Ray said.

According to Ray’s standards, achiev-
ing wholeness as a human being results from
being engaged with the land, engaged with
each other, connected to your means sur-
vival, aware of what you are sacrificing, and
also recognizing that we are moored by spir-
it. “The most vital challenge in the 21st cen-
tury is figuring out how we are going to lead
a whole and sustainable life amid so much
destruction,” Ray said.

Coming from an area of the country
where 99% of the native landscape has been
destroyed, Ray believes that the “more,
more, more motto” of our economy has led
to this “apocalyptic loss” of the natural en-
vironment. “I used to think that policy and
education would stem the hemorrhaging of
wild things from the earth, but I no longer
believe in this solution,” Ray said.

Ray said that by giving corporations the
rights of people, our society is not taking into
account the damage that we are doing by liq-
uidating our planet. “Earth cannot withstand
this exploitation,” the self-proclaimed ideal-
ist stated before presenting five possible out-
comes for America and how we are going to
“marry economics with the environment.”

First, we could simply keep going the
way we are going. However, this refusal to
alter our economic system will result in the
continued sacrifice of fundamental human
needs and the things that are most important
to us, such as clean air and rural communi-

An officer and a gentleman

ANDREW EVANS
Staff Writer

“To make war upon rebellion is messy
and slow, like eating soup with a knife.”

These words by T.E. Lawrence were the
first words Captain Ross M. Boyce ’01 dis-
played on the overhead screen during a his
presentation on September 24 titled “The
Laws of War: Lessons Learned from a Year
in Iraq.” Boyce talked in the Lily Family Gal-
lery to a group of about 50 people, including
students, faculty and community members.

Boyce’s presentation clearly demon-
strated the horrors of the conflict in Iraq and
the truth of Lawrence’s words. “For me, Iraq
wasn’t a political experience,” he said. He
also said he was simply doing his duty as
a soldier, a duty that required unimaginable
situations and decisions. “War is not a Sun-
day picnic.”

Dr. Russell Crandel, Professor of Politi-
cal Science, remarked that Boyce’s presenta-
tion gave both the perspective of the “boot
on the grunt” and an intellectual perspective
on the War.

While training soldiers at Fort Collins,
Colorado, the reality of sending soldiers to
Iraq without trained leadership unsettled
Boyce. He volunteered to go to Iraq since he
was an officer, and in 2004 he was deployed
to eastern Baghdad. He earned the Bronze
Star for Valor during his service, but his
greatest accomplishment was returning all of
his soldiers back home alive.

Boyce was the sole officer in a reconnais-
sance platoon of 27 to 28 men. His platoon’s
duties included reconnaissance, route clear-
ance and counter-Improvised Explosive De-
vise ED) missions.

Much of what Boyce’s platoon did can
be categorized as counterinsurgency, and his
platoon was stretched too thin and had to per-
form too many missions to be ideally effec-
tive. Boyce said regarding the missions, “We
were over-burdened” by the duties in the as-
signed area. Their area of operation in Bagh-
dad was very large and diverse, both politi-
cally and economically. It bordered the Sadir

City slums, -yet also included very wealthy
areas. Both members of the Sunni and Shia
sects lived in the area, too.

When he arrived, “the mood was...con-
fusion.” He said there weren’t many inter-
preters, and the soldiers weren’t trained for
the war they were fighting. Boyce empha-
sized that the soldiers were often placed in
compromising situations with no obviously
correct course of action.

To illustrate the soldiers’ predicament,
Ross gave the example of a situation during
a night road checkpoint when a car didn’t
stop at the first line of the roadblock. The car
exploded—it was a Vehicle-Borne IED.

A few nights later the same soldiers were
running another checkpoint at night and a car
again failed to stop at the first line. The sol-
diers fired. Were they in within the Rules of
Engagement? Boyce told the audience that
they were; they felt threatened, especially
after the VBIED from a few nights before.
But in the car wasn’t a terrorist. A man and
his pregnant wife, who were rushing to the
hospital, were shot and killed that night.

The ambiguous nature of the war was
compounded by the role of civilians in the
conflict. “We’re not fighting over the ter-
rain,” Boyce said. “You're fighting over the
people.” Boyce made it clear that the situa-
tion in Iraq is a very complex, often with no
clear answers to particular situations,

“It’s such a life-changing event that it
affects you,” said Boyce. For the first few
months after his return, Boyce drove down
the middle of the road, fearful of IEDs, and a
dropped weight in a weight room would put
him on the floor.

Boyce said he did benefit some from his
year in Iraq. He gained new strength and a
“deeper...perspective on life.” His experi-
ence helped put things in their proper per-
spectives: “Waiting in line at the grocery
store doesn’t irritate you because it’s not that
bad.” he said.

“T left feeling so incomplete,” said Boyce,
because there was still a tremendous amount

See Veteran, page 3

ties.

An alternative would be to punish cor-
porations and the small percentage of the
population that is procuring the prosperity
that stems from pollution and environmental
destruction. Ray then introduced the third
option of coming up with another economic
system.

“The minute I start talking about this,
people think I am talking about communism,”
Ray said. But this suggestion was actually an-
other manifestation of her idealist nature and
her disdain for how capitalism has taught our
society to be “violently wasteful”. Ray then
expressed the possibility of changing our ac-
counting so that.“‘we take into consideration
the cost to human and environmental health,”
before presenting the last possible outcome
to the United States.

This final option is one that Janisse Ray
herself has adopted. She suggests that we
“remove ourselves as much as possible from
the global, industrial, military economy and
reconstitute local economies.” By making a
pact to reduce her fossil fuel consumption by
30%, driving a hybrid car, using low-energy,
fluorescent light bulbs, participating in “curb
your car” challenges and growing food on
her family farm, Ray has made a commit-
ment to putting what she calls the “sanctity
of life first”.

During the question and answer session,
Economics professor Dr. Clark Ross, eco-
nomics professor, inquired about the pres-
ence of environmental programs in other col-
leges and universities across the country.

During her travels, Janisse Ray says she
has seen the implementation of solar hot wa-
ter in dorms at Dartmouth College, a wind-

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 2008

Janisse e Ray reads from her book, “The
Ecology of a Cracker Childhood.”

mill at Green Mountain College in Vermont,
“go-mugs” similar to our Davidson Cat
C.U.PPS. at the University of Alabama, and
the celebration of Earth Day at Lynchburg
College.

“We are desperate for thinkers, not con-
sumers,” Ray said, “Thank you for studying
hard and thinking hard, for your good work of
envisioning the world as a more livable and
sustainable place because you can reinvent a
different North Carolina, a different South-
east and, ultimately, a different America.”

Logistically speaking, the labyrinth will
be located in Hobart Park, which is situated
between n Faculty Drive and. the Baker pe

“Thekit used to build the labyrinth and its
z ans ee $30, 000, g

‘effort by purchasing faodrinth tshirts and
tickets for the Amarins g Maize Maze located.

