6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING :
Bathroom pleasure reading

“Twilight,” directed by Catherine Hardwicke, is based on a series of novels from )

author Stephanie Meyer.

Twilight, from page 5
not be friends; it is not that he didn’t want
them to be, but that they shouldn’t be. How-
ever, they soon realize that they cannot be
apart.

As time passes and Bella witnesses dif-
ferent sides of Edward’s behavior, such as
impossible strength, speed and a knack for
saving her life, she begins to question exactly
how human Edward really is.

After some research and help from an
Indian legend, she finally comes to a conclu-
sion: “About three things I was absolutely
positive. First, Edward was a vampire. Sec-
ond, there was a part of him and I didn’t
know how dominant that part might be- that
thirsted for my blood. And third, I was un-
conditionally and irrevocably in love with
him.”

Bella and Edward’s relationship becomes
even more intimate as they delve further into
a dangerous, passionate love. Even though
Edward and his family fight against their
nature and eat only animals, every second
that Edward and Bella are together, she is in

mortal danger. The only thing that can save
her is Edward’s overpowering love. She has
to believe that his love is stronger than his
thirst. Despite his love, he cannot protect her
from everything, and she becomes the target
of another, less controlled vampire, James.

It is going to take more than love to save
Bella as she, Edward and his family fight to
keep her alive. In the end, Edward faces the
ultimate test in order to save her life and pro-
tect her from his own eternal fate. At the end
of the film, however, Bella must decide if she
would be willing to sacrifice her human soul
in order to remain with Edward for eternity.

Overall, the movie’s director, Catherine
Hardwicke incorporates interesting cinemat-
ic elements that reinforce the film’s serious
themes. A dark lens shades the scenes and
gives the movie an ominous tone. Also, im-
ages of the vast wilderness and turbulent seas
add a sort of sublime beauty.

After this first installment of the “Twi-
light” series in film, fans should eagerly an-
ticipate the release of its sequel. “New Moon”
is currently in its pre-production stages for a
2010 release.

Invest in You we

Invest Now

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are

now being awarded to top applicants for a

new one-year Master’s Program in Finance
i y'

beginning Fall 2009.

e Acquire the expertise you will need to
succeed in the market place of the future.

e Leverage a dedicated career specialist and
extensive alumni network in entering the

market.

e Build your leadership potential in the co-
curricular program and meet with
distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit
www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or
contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT Day SCHOOL
CLAREMONT MCKENNA COLLEGE

500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711 TEL: 909-607-3347

BEN IRELAND
Staff Writer

Where is the best place on campus to read
while doing nature’s call? Simple. The toilets
located in the basement of the library. Here,
I have decided to reveal the top three toilet
readers I have encountered.

1. “Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas”

One of Tom Robbins’ lesser-known nov-
els, “Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas” is writ-
ten entirely in the second person and present
tense. At times, this narration style becomes
irritating and difficult to comprehend.

The book opens with Filipino broker
Gwendolyn Mati befriending a three-hun-
dred pound Tarot card enthusiast Q-Jo. Mati
meets a financial junkie named Larry Dia-
mond who convinces her to leave her job and
to spend her life on humankind’s unanswered
questions, such as whether an Eastern mystic
can cure cancer with enemas.

Motifs like beets, frogs and explosives
appear as well. The randomness that Tom
Robbins throws at us with his usage of witty
quotes and extremely bizarre scenes is price-
less.

2. “Tattooed Mountain Women and Spoon
Boxes of Daghestan”

Robert Chenciner and his colleagues
have spent many years researching the vari-
ous ethnic tribes and their traditions in Dagh-
estan, a remote country located on the south-
emmost border of Russia. The book explores
the women of the Daghestan tribes who give
themselves tattoos. These women believe
that each tattoo serves as a magical protec-
tion from evil. The tattoos also hold special
medicinal purposes.

According to Chenciner’s research, the
pain a woman feels when she receives a tat-
too gives the women protection.

Tired of looking all over
for an open computer?

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

aed

The same symbols that are tattooed on
bodies are also found designed on scarves
and carved on other hand-made products. In
effect, the person who wears the material or
buys the various hand-made carvings is pro-
vided with these same magical powers.

Chenciner’s research also explores the
history behind the ritual cooking spoon box-
es. The spoons that were used in cooking a
family’s ritual food are stored in containers
that hang from the ceilings of their living
quarters. The same symbols from the tattoos
show up again on these boxes.

This book contains extremely rare pho-
tographs of these women with their tattoos
as well as of the various types of scarves
and other products that the tribal women had
built. A certain must-read!

3. “The Stray Shopping Carts of Eastern
North America: A Guide to Field Identifica-
tion”

I don’t know about you, but when I see an
abandoned shopping cart on the side of the
road, I feel sorry for it. Author Julian Mon-
tague roamed around the Northeast, photo-
graphing and describing the various aban-
doned shopping carts she saw.

Montague divides the book into five sec-
tions that classify each type of cart. A photo
is added to provide a stunning visual descrip-
tion.

The fourth section, entitled “Selected
Specimens,” provides the reader with over
three hundred pictures of beaten and de-
stroyed shopping carts that have been left
completely trashed in the environment.

Additionally, Montague, who provides
no type of biography, solely notes that she
had spent six years of her life making this
book. An interesting book with many beauti-
ful photographs that will make you look at
shopping carts in a different way.

With OpenSeats,
you don’t have to!

Whether you need seating for a full study group, or just a quiet
place to get some work done on the computer, ITS’ new
OpenSeats tool can help. With maps and availability indicators for
all of Davidson’s public computers, it’s the fastest and easiest way
to find the workspace that’s right for you or your group. Just go to

www.davidson.edu /its

and click on Available Lab Computers to use OpenSeats.

