THE DAVIDSONIAN

Reminders of racism’
hint at broken society

“CUNT Serra” ;
Guest Columnist

For many, the holiday season provided an excellent time.
recharge. While I enjoved my break,-it was also an.

ie

unfortunate reminder of our society’s” ‘shortcomings.’

‘During break; was subjected to several incidents of racial

profiling.:Though these incidents may seem like: coinci~

dences ‘1 should have disregarded, they, point. to racist
undertones that still smear our country, ©
The first incident occurred in my hometown of Ne

Orleans. I sat at the dreaded DMV waiting for my number
to be called. When it came time to take my photo, I smiled”
like it was my birthday and showed off the result of fiv

-years. of. braces and relentless brushing.. Curiously, “th

receptionist told me not to smile “for identification purpos

“e821 was puzzied because I had never heard of such arul
I didn’t give it.a second thought and simply took a pictu
‘that made me look like one of “America’s. Most Wanted?
Before walking out the door, I turned to wish the recep-

picture of the woman who had once been behind me in
line, Standing in front. of the. sereen, this woman smiled
like she had just won a date with Brad Pitt. I expected the

receptionist to tell her not to smile as well, but she didn’ te

he continued to make the woman’s license without giving

-of any other reason,

Aer best effort to ignore me. , After standing in front. of he
/desk:for a good five minutes, she turned to. me and sai
Sir, ’'m going to call security. if you do not. move

ee
Le

Whiler racism "ia America may) no

/ The | second incident occurred when 1 my friends and I, all.
‘black; were driving home late at night; Minutes away from

omy house: we were distressed to hear the sound of police”
“sirens directly behind us. 1-was bewildered because 1 di p
not think I had violated any laws./The officer approached.
My. car,, asked me for my+license. and. registration and.
turned back toward his car. When he returned, he asked me.

afl knew why I had been pulled over: I said that I had no
idea. He claimed that I had “accelerated too quickly out.o
the stop light;”a statement that stunned and infuriated m
Ahad never heard that rule and was fairly certain that it di

‘mt exist. I had been driving on a road where the oe ee lim

was 40 mph and I hadn’t even exceeded 35! #7

police officer said he would let me off with a“warn-

ight and be more careful next time.’
“Be careful of what?” L thought to myself,“

Police off.

‘nothing more than my skin color. Re
= While racism in America may not ‘show up as. whi
power” and eross-buming, it is still a prominent fi xture in

our society, simply more covert.1 don’ ‘t:mean to say that all’

whites are racist--bigotry transcends cultural boundaries
‘and can come from the words or actions of people from
vevery creed, color and culture. The most important thing

for us to know is that we can neither i ignore racism nor:
‘heed its presence and do nothing. We have a responsibility: :
to eradicate it from our school, our cities and our country.
Next time you hear somebody say something that may”

have a racist undertone, whether they are cognizant of it or
not, let them know that it’s not okay. In remembrance of

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., let us not. allow these uly”

occurtrences to mar a beautiful world.

ti,

Clint Smith. 101 is ‘undeclared, He is + from New Orleans
&LA. Contact him.at clsmith@davidson.edu. :

‘tionist-a Merry Christmas. At that moment, she took the

a second glance. 1 wondered if this was due to the fact:
that I was black and the woman w white. I gouldn’t thin

anted fo scream and call attention to. the situation, but
realized that yelling would only make things worse, I left.
the DMV. angry because I felt this white receptionist had.
not allowed me to smile because’ was a young black Mans
That. day, I asked some friends if this had ever happened to =
them.,While no black girls said it had, at least-a quarter of’
-the black men I asked had heard of similar things: Was the ;
DMV trying to force e young black n men to take mug shots ase

g” and, in a contemptuous tone, told me to “havea good.

srs like you who try to abuse their authority to incriminate.
‘young black men?” I rolled up my window and pulled.
away, feeling like the world was out to get me based. upon,

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 23, 2008 9

Free speech board lacks sincerity

MIKE WATERS
Guest Columnist

The Free Speech Board, located in the Alvarez College
Union, stands as a 3x4 foot intermingling of honest opinion,
devil’s advocates, general buffoonery, school spirit and off
topic mumblings from the chemically impaired. The subject
of recent hub of controversy, the Free Speech Board attracts
regulars to the Union who wish to view tabloid answers to
serious questions.

The drastic contrast in tones between the question posed
and the respective posts, as well as between posts them-
selves, is funny on occasion. The irony manifested in both
the board’s spectacular success and failure to achieve its goal

is also at times funny. Today’s society seems appropriately.

represented in the Free Speech Board: some people whole
heartedly try to tackle the problem head-on, while others
kick back, play the comedian and go on “living the dream.”
“Funny,” however, comes at a cost to all those involved. The
Free Speech Board’s failure is a minor but absolute refuta-
tion of Davidsonian principles. While the Free Speech Board
is at heart a praiseworthy idea, its flippant-debate format and
its sitent tolerance of posts endorsing rape, racism and sub-
stance abuse necessitates its reform.

The subject of recent hub of con-
troversy, the Free Speech Board
attracts regulars to the Union who
wish to view tabloid answers to
serious questions.

Ross White ’09, co-president of Just Peace, which spon-
sors and monitors the board, described the mission of the stu-
dent organization: “to stimulate and provide a forum for stu-
dent discussion about issues both on campus and globally.”
On paper, the Free Speech Board seems a perfect fit for an
admirable organization’s exemplary goal. Upon closer
inspection, however, posts fall short of thoughtful and note-
worthy discourse.

“We’ve had some minor problems with comments not
related to post topics whatsoever and with responses with
lots of expletives,” White said. He also stated t-hat while Just
Peace does not endorse any views expressed on the board,

they leave the dismissing of potentially offensive posts to
other posters who “call each other out.” The ideology is
understandable (The “Censored” Free Speech Board is not as
catchy). However, the laissez-faire sentiment allows respons-
es to the question “What can Davidson do about sexual
assault?” such as “‘No’ means ‘no’ except when her body
says ‘yes’” and just as alarmingly “young money cash
money” to remain in plain sight as anonymous statements
tolerated by the Davidson community.

The format of the Free Speech
Board also hinders its ability to
accomplish Just Peace’s goals.
Posts usually consist of blurby
one-liners or what White calls
“bumper sticker statements.”

The format of the Free Speech Board also hinders its abil-
ity to accomplish Just Peace’s goals. Posts usually consist of
blurby one-liners or what White calls “bumper sticker state-
ments.” The flippant, one-liner battles often fail to inform
and always fall short of discourse representative of Davidson
College. “We recognize the board has its limitations and that
it is difficult to establish an entire viewpoint,” White said.
However, “Bumper sticker statements are better than noth-
ing.”

White and Just Peace are looking into creating an internet
forum where students can fully communicate their thoughts.
That move may not only lead to more effective argument but
also might be able to assign accountability to posts.

This perspective is not a call to arms. This article is not an
attempt to censor opinion. This article is an attempt to keep
blatantly offensive and significantly harmful material regard-
ing issues of race, assault, etc. out of public tolerance. Free
speech comes with a caveat: we are all accountable for what
we say. Just Peace’s goal for intelligent student discourse
relies on student ability to express fully their point of view.
The Free Speech Board’s lack of poster accountability and
means for in-depth arguments therefore warrant its trip back
to the drawing board.

Mike Waters ’10 is a Biology major from Centreville, VA.
Contact him at miwaters@davidson.edu.

- Reservations about Barack Obama

—— “Obama-mania” has spread
bs Singera

, across the country in the past
» month, or at least through the
=. media. News organizations like
_ NBC have drooled over the gifted
speaker, Barack Hussein Obama.
NBC got so caught up in the fren-
zy that it forgot to hide its leftist
. ties and openly declared its bias
| towards him.
: Obama apparently lights the
- liberal fire. A President Obama,
however, spells disaster for the
_ country conceived by Madison
and Jefferson and built . by

Bossy DESPAIN

Washington and Lincoln.

Obama’s foreign policy positions can only be described as
disastrous. He has refused to characterize the Iranian
Republican Guard as a terrorist organization, yet has openly
suggested bombing Pakistan.

He also stands behind the idea of a complete military pull-
out from Iraq; he apparently wishes to portray a weak
America which quits while winning. Due to such successes,
Obama decided to abstain from declaring his support for the
architect of the triumphs, Gen. David Petraeus and our mili-
tary. Obama, however, was quite ready to sign a letter attack-
ing a private citizen, Rush Limbaugh.

His desire to be universally likable is also somewhat dis-
concerting. I would rather certain elements did not like the
United States, like radical Islamists and individuals with no
respect for women, children or humanity in general.

If these groups start liking the United States, a radical
change in policy will be necessary. Obama has continually
stated that Americans’ security is inextricably linked to
everyone’s security. Now that is a quaint thought, but I do not
understand in what way I can share security with a terrorist.

Obama includes the fact that he lived in Indonesia from
ages six through 10 and that his biological father is Kenyan
as ample experience and credentials to justify his foreign

policy positions. Apparently, in today’s world this is enough
to hand over nuclear launch codes. I have been to Italy for
two weeks. Am I now an expert on Italian affairs? He has
also stated that because he has family members in African
tribal villages, he is better suited to help Africa. That would
be great if he were running for President of Africa, but I
would rather he helped Americans first.

Obama has also touted certain decision-making abilities
that make him suitable for the Oval Office. Such decisions
include consistently opposing the Iraq War. I am not sure
how opposing victory makes for a good decision, but it is all
he has.

A distinct anti-Semitic and anti-Israeli tilt also mars
Obama’s character. His mentor and pastor, Jeremiah Wright
Jr., is a supporter of Louis Farrakhan. This pastor even trav-
eled with Farrakhan to visit the Libyan terrorist Col.
Muammar al-Gaddafi.

Wright has continually preached against Israel. Even
though Obama has called Wright his spiritual mentor and
moral compass, the Obama campaign has publicly distanced
itself from him. In Wright’s own words, Obama “can’t afford
Jewish support to wane or start questioning his allegiance to
Israel.” —

Though Obama cries for change,
does that really mean anything?
The type of change he wants
would not push America forward,
but backwards.

Though Obama cries for change, does that really mean
anything? The type of change he wants would not push
America forward, but backwards.

Bobby DesPain ’I1l is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
