S taff Editorial

ES alana:

fe Sine Bio

When. applying to Davidson College, prospective stu-:.
‘dents are confronted with the realities that come with .
_ financing an education at a private school in comparison”
- to much more economical state schools. Debt-free educa:
» tion for students from lower socioeconomic status fami
lies once seemed an unattainable concept. With the initi-
-ation of Davidson's new-loan policy,. this ideal has
; become a reality. By replacing student loans with need-
: based financial aid packages that consist of grants and
n-campus employment, students can now graduate wit
ut the substantial burden of student loans ’
_In-a campus ceremony last Thursday, President Tom
oss. revealed the name of the no-loan policy after 10 |

-tmonths of discussion: The Davidson Trust. The name was ©

Chosen from a list of suggestions from an online survey”

-and the trustees agreed that the word “trust” in the title
« Yeflects the honor inherent to the Davidson community.
Certainly, the Davidson Honor Code sets the school
_ apart from peer universities and makes possible a way of
life based on mutual trust—the kind of trust that makes

un-proctored and self-scheduled exams possible, that »
allows for community bicyeles and unsupervised use of.
incredible facilities and technology around campus, The ™
_Davidsonian agrees that the new no-loan poliey should.

_ echo and promote such ideals.
» Another attractive aspect of the $70 million endow-
ment is that it is funded by gifts, not by tuition. The Duke.”
Endowment, as well as many Davidson alumni, granted
approximately.$14 million so far, as well. an 1 $8 million, :
: donation to initiate the program.
Now, the student body must put its trust in Davidson:
“the groundbreaking no-loan initiative will not only be a
great start but a continued, sustained program for poten-
tial and current students. More than just a get-out-of-col-
lege-free card, The Davidson Trust ensures that students
«from a diverse range of economic situations will have —
- equal opportunities to attend this institution, We sinceres.
aly hope that this initiative will further promote diversity se
on campus, in both academic and social settings, The ©
»Trust will also ‘propel graduating students to choose a’
vocation based on their interests instead of salary, due to
_ Sentiican! decrease in debt. ae
2 Where do we go from here and what do we hope to sees

in the future? One possiblity is the development of more

inclusive programs for students from families that have
the means to support.a Davidson education, based on col-- ;
lateral for example, but not actually out of their parents’.
paychecks or savings. That being said, Davidson has a ©
small endowment in comparison to rival institutions, and
the fact that we are the first college to initiate such a pro-
gressive program is highly commendable.

Che Davidsonian

od ALENDA LUX UBL ORDA LIBERTAS 6

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Katherine Miller
News Editors
¢ Alissa Curran & Chris Moore
4 Perspectives Editors
AL aura Van Oudenaren & Matt Petit
Arts & Living Editors
te --Spaniter Errington. & Caroline Wood, eek
i f Ee Yow! Editors *
a, “James Boswell & Alex Hoyt.
: ee Sports Editors ~~” ~
: “Mike Frongello & Patrick MeArdle 4
% . Photography Editor
Ben Ellinor
Copy Editor
Gretchen Hoffman ,.
Business, Advertising, and Circulation Manager
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Jamie Hofmeister

Davidsonian i 4s published Wednesdays ‘duting the academic. year.
by the students of Davidson College, One copy per student. Please.
_ address. all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,

Davidson, NC 28035-7182 ;phone 7%) 894-2148. °°»

a Hee Me

: E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in Room.
© 411 of the Alvarez College Union.. Opinions expressed in letters to th
_ editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect the yiews of the
_ Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscriptions ¢ cost $50.00 per
: Ady fates are available 1 »

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY
JANUARY 23, 2008

a _ 8

* LETTERS TO THE EDITOR *
Jokes at One in Four program inconsiderate

The segment of Tuesday’s One in Four men’s session,
which suggested ways to prevent rape on campus, was rude-
ly interrupted. A certain young man in the audience felt it
necessary to joke that secretly videotaping an intoxicated
roommate raping an equally intoxicated female would be a
good way to limit possibility of rape.

I imagine he enjoyed his smug moment, sitting in a small
group of peers, who also laughed at his appalling idea of a
joke. Rape is an extremely serious and life-altering subject
and is not humorous, whatsoever. In fact, rape ruins the lives
of hundreds of thousands of individuals in the United States
each year.

Just a few of the statistics available on the web about rape
might make even this insensitive joker think twice. For
example, every two minutes, somewhere in America, some-
one is sexually assaulted. One in six American women and
one in 33 men have been victims of sexual assault at some
point in their lives. Numbers from 2005 and 2006 show that
there are on average 232,010 victims of rape, attempted rape
or sexual assault per year in the United States. Furthermore,
80 percent of rape victims are under age 30—the same age
group as many of this joker’s friends.

Based on those numbers, it is possible that somebody in
that room had been a victim of rape. Even more likely, some
may have been survivors of “secondhand rape,” meaning that
someone close to them was raped and had confided in them.

I hope he is reading this article. Unfortunately, four men

passionate about rape prevention, a video suggesting rape’s
horrible aftereffects, and statistics were unable to convince
him that this issue is not laughing matter. Maybe the fact that
he trivialized someone else’s horrible experience with
rape —forcing that person to relive his experience in front of
his peers—may change this joker’s mind about his
deplorable suggestion.

Based on the statistics above as well as the most basic
moral values of almost all students on campus, I am also
willing to bet that your asinine and pathetic public utterance
offended many more individuals. I certainly hope you begin
to realize that some issues should never be treated as jokes
and that what you said has and will continue to hurt others.

Walker Shaw ’10

Conflict in Darfur needs attention, publicity

DANIEL VAN OUDENAREN
Guest Columnist

Divestment from Sudan was one of the few issues that
brought Congress together in 2007. Darfur continues to grab
the spotlight here and there on the presidential campaign
trail, and President Bush claims to be making it a “central
issue.’

While some have tired of hearing near-hysteric discussion
regarding “genocide” in Darfur, it’s about time that politi-
cians take notice.

Why? Because the blazing insurgency in Darfur and east-
ern Chad, and all its consequent fallout, threaten to bring
down not only the government of Sudan, but many
American politicians as well.

Student involvement in this cause
is neither a fad nor politically
irrelevant, but is an expression of
the necessary international
responsiveness of a generation
that will face challenges on a
global scale.

The governing National Congress Party of Sudan faces
internal dissent from Islamists and other long-standing
opposition parties, growing populations of displaced per-
sons, renewed tension with southern rebels, treaty-mandated
elections in 2009 and now a lasting insurgency in Darfur.

Whether the Khartoum government falls tomorrow or
makes it another few years, the intricate and brutal politics
of this vast, largely remote and once economically insignif-
icant country are already making ripples in the comparative-
ly placid pond of American politics, which is soon to be hit
by a tsunami-sized reality check.

There is rising awareness in the United States of the trau-
ma affecting some parts of Africa, and now new attitudes
towards policy choices.

At Davidson and at other colleges, I’ve witnessed my
peers join the ranks of the most active supporters of Darfur’s
cause in groups like Students Taking Action Now: Darfur
(STAND). The rise of other new groups too, like the ONE
Campaign, indicates an increased focus on Africa and more
generally on human integrity and security.

Student involvement in this cause is neither a fad nor
politically irrelevant but is rather an expression of the neces-
sary international responsiveness of a generation that will
face challenges on a global scale.

The youth demographic is highly networked and has a

heavy emotional investment in the issue. I’d wager that my
generational peers and I have been shuffled through the
Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington on school field
trips more often than have most of the policy wonks and
congressmen who live there.

Moreover, the notorious political indifference of college-
aged youth actually makes universities advantageous places
for consideration of universally important issues that have
been left cruelly unaddressed by America’s myopic main-
stream political discourse.

Is my generation realistically going to reward the histori-
cal legacy of a government (ours) that was unwilling to pro-
vide even 24 helicopters to the African Union mission in
Sudan, when the U.S. military has 6,023 helicopters?

Are we not clever enough to see the Central Intelligence
Agency (C.L.A.) romance with the Sudanese intelligence
agency—the very same group that controls the janjawiid—
has weakened our leaders’ resolve to take action in Darfur?

Khartoum’s recent cooperation with the C.I.A. on coun-
terterrorism is a case in which our ethical and strategic
imperatives were sacrificed for short-sighted tactical part-
nerships.

A joint United Nations-African Union force has been
assigned to Darfur, but Khartoum continues to obstruct
deployment of non-African contingents and to insist on
other constraints that could doom the force to certain failure.
Our government’s disgraceful refusal to value human secu-
rity over the nominal sovereignty of the Khartoum govern-
ment puts such a putrid blot on this generation of leaders that
our republic will be cleansed only by the arrival of a politi-
cal climate that refuses to permit the same callous lethargy
in exercising American power.

In the political reality to come there will be losers—
among them, the party planners who manufactured issues
rather than dealing with real ones, the presidential candi-
dates who learned just enough about Darfur to impress the
uninformed American public, and the congressmen who
thought that signing on to a divestment bill would absolve
them from taking other less circumspect political and leg-
islative actions.

Belated outrage will do these politicians no good—their
constituents have already beaten them to that. Let them rise
up and act—or let them fall with the brutal tottering govern-
ment in Khartoum with which they’ ve forged so discrete and
unholy an alliance.

Justice is too mighty a voice to be silenced by the compla-
cent rhetoric of politicians who have surrendered strategic
vision and human values for party loyalty and phony party
issues. Darfur needs to matter to America. Darfur will mat-
ter to America.

Daniel Van Oudenaren ’08 is a Classics major from
Bethesda, MD. Contact him at
davanoudenaren@davidson.edu
