os

10 "FHE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

from Madness, page. I 12

- have one possession games ‘with North Carolina,

» Duke and UCLA with a minute to play? How did.
-Ahis team embrace the bulls-eye?
‘This team is obsessed with getting better every.
Aime they step on the court;” Coach McKillop said
during the SoCon Tournament, *We always focu
on playing to win, getting better, and having fun
For. most. coaches around the’ country; thos
three goals sound like stereotypical coach-spe
When the players echo them to a Tin the: press
onferences,” ‘it-seems as: if they have: just been
ained very well. But those three things speak yo
mes about the heart.and soul of a Davidson pro-
m. that has been continually tweaked a. little
ere. or: there by one of the best coaching staffs in

By 008

get te ye top = perform
in the Se Son ai

we
- dispatching, ‘of the Phoeni
ught that: winning the SoCon for the third

ready: look to potential matchups past the: fir
round. But we don’ thave to worry about this tea
feeling pressure. The pressure is on the millions 9
mericans with brackets filled out. The pressure i
‘on the. Vegas oddsmakers, The pressure is on the.
referees with national scrutiny. The pressure is on
the Gonzaga Bulldogs who will lay in Davidson.
in our backyard.
Davidson is just get better, And play to win, And

Baseball
(6-8, 0-0)

Men’s Bball
(26-6, 20-0)

3/9 vs. Yale Won 4-2
3/10 vs. Yale Won 7-6

3/10/08 Southern Conference
Tournament Championship

vs. Elon Won 65-49 Next Up:
3/19 vs. Columbia
Next Up: 3/21-3/23 vs. CofC
3/20/08 NCAA Ist Round 3/25 at #3 UNC
vs. Gonzaga

Notes: The Wildcats open up

SoCon play this weekend as

they host preseason favorite
College of Charleston.

Notes: The Wildcats repeated
as SoCon Champs and earned
an NCAA Tournament berth for
the third straight season.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

Baseball beats up on Ivy League

By Patrick MCARDLE
Sports Editor

The Wildcat baseball team took two games from Yale by the
scores of 4-2 and 7-6 on March 9th and 10th and slid by
Columbia 3-2 to lengthen its winning streak to four games. The
team’s record now stands at 7-8.

Thomas Middour ’10 pitched his second win of the season in
the first game against Yale. He allowed just two runs on four hits
in 7 1/3 innings of work.

As for the offense, three runs in the bottom of the first inning
put the Wildcats ahead for good. Center fielder Hugh Eden ’08
sparked Wildcats with a lead-off single up the middle. After two
hit batsmen, Danny Weiss ’1] managed to drive in two runs with
his only hit of the evening. Catcher Tommy Piacenza ’10 added
one more run with a single to center. Both Eden and Piacenza
went 2-4 for the game.

The second game against Yale came down to the wire, but
Chase Fitzpatrick ’09 led Davidson to the 7-6 victory. Going 2-
4 with three RBIs, his last hit plated the game-winning run with
two outs in the bottom of the eighth inning.

Pat Brady ’09 started off the critical inning with a double into
the right-center field gap. After a sacrifice bunt by senior leader
Eden to move Brady to third, Brett Shore ’09 earned the inten-
tional walk. Unfortunately, Shore was thrown out at second
when he attempted to steal. Luckily, Fitzpatrick brought Brady
home with his game-winning swing.

Mike Frongello ’11 secured his second save of the series and
fourth of the year when he worked out of a two-on, one-out jam
by forcing a strike out and a fielder’s choice. Mike Sliwiak ’11
got. credit for the win by pitching a perfect-eighth inning of
relief.

Against Columbia on Tuesday night, the Wildcats pushed
across their first ran when Sam Payne '11 hit a solid two-out
double. Eden followed with an RBI single in the third inning.

Columbia Mike Roberts led off the fifth inning with a solo
home run to knot the game at 1-1. The Lions took the lead in the
sixth when Jason Banos scored on a Roberts sacrifice fly.

Shore tied the game in the bottom of the inning for Davidson
by scoring on an error after reaching on a one-out double, set-
ting up some late-game heroics. First baseman Jay Honeycutt

Jay Honeycutt 10 avoided a tag at the plate against
Columbia to win the game 3-2 in the ninth inning.

”10 got on base in the ninth inning with a double down the right

field line. Weiss moved Honeycutt to third with a bunt, and
Honeycutt scored on a grounder to first base by Piacenza.
Frongello earned the win with a perfect ninth inning.

The Wildcats remain at home this week. Starting on Friday,
Davidson will play a three-game set against the formidable
College of Charleston to start SoCon play.

Lacrosse scores season high 20 goals

By ANNE STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

After its game against Duquesne was canceled due to
inclement weather, the women’s lacrosse team dropped a
Thursday evening game against Vermont 15-10 but rebounded
by scoring a season-high goal total of 20 against Wagner to
secure the 20-5 win. Splitting these games brings the team’s sea-
son record to 5-3.

Becky Horton ’09, Callie Seymour ’09 and Jen Crawford ’10
scored two goals each against Vermont in the losing
effort. Jennifer Drew Lindsey ’09 scored her first career goal in
the affair.

On the defensive front, Michelle Pav ’10 and Laura Johnson
’08 combined for 10 saves against Vermont’s strong offense that
outscored the ’Cats by five goals.

Redeeming themselves, the Wildcats blew away Wagner by
scoring 20 goals, the most scored for Davidson since it sunk 22
in a home win over Howard on April 4, 2006. The team also set
new scoring highs in points (26), assists (6), shots (40) and shots
on goal (31)

Seven Wildcats got in on the act during the scoring barrage.
Crawford led the team with five goals, bringing her season total
to a career-best 21. Emily Diefendorf.’08 secured a natural hat-
trick by scoring three goals in a row while also pocketing anoth-
er score by game’s end. Pav and Johnson combined for four
saves on the defensive end.

For the Seahawks, Cara Gonzalez led the offensive attack
with two goals. On the defensive side, Alex Johnston and Amy

Track and Field Women’s Lacrosse
(5-3)
Next Up: 3/13 vs. Vermont Lost 10-15

3/21 Charlotte 49er Classic 3/17 vs. Wagner 20-5
Next Up:

3/26 vs. Longwood
Notes: After three weeks off, the
team looks to build on its fifth-
place performance at the SoCon
Indoor Championships this week-
end in Charlotte.

Jones combined for 11 saves between the pipes.

Davidson will play Longwood on March 26th at home for its

third game of a five-game homestand.

Becky Horton 09 both scored a goal and tallied an assist
in Davidson’s 20-5 blowout against the Wagner S Seahawks.

Men?’ Ss Tennis
(8-3, 2-0)

Women’s Tennis
(10-3, 2-0)

3/4 vs. JMU Won 6-1 3/15 at App St. Won 7-0

3/16 vs. WCU Won 7-0

Next Up:
3/20 vs. Wofford Next Up:
3/22 vs. CofC 3/19 at Charlotte
3/25 vs. Coastal Carolina 3/21 at ECU

Notes: Davidson rebounded from
the loss against Vermont with a
season-high 20 goals in
Monday’s victory over Wagner.

Notes: The’Cats started 3-0 in
conference play for the fourth
consecutive season.

Notes: The Wildcats and
Furman enter the week as the
only two unbeaten teams in
SoCon play.
