~ and beseech our computers with promises of eternal good
: behaviorif: we ean just. check our e-mails, just. this once,

wishing todo online research find « only the dor
2 orc mputet lab as ere

Sinsietneate the: a iisly unconnected studen:

LEU AE ict ee eee

Dhe Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
, News Editors
Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
vA Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors
* Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Hoyt & Dan Killian
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewi
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright
Online Editor vA
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson Coliege. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost'$50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is.held. hy the fsustees.of Davidson. College. \

THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 24, 2008

* LETTER TO THE EDITOR *.
Exercise vigilance as Davidson changes

It is sad, and even a bit shocking, to see last week’s flyers
about laptop thefts on the front doors of E.H. Little Library,
urging Davidson men and women not to leave. valuables
unattended. President Emeritus John Kuykendall, who was

inaugurated my senior year, was passing nearby. “Welcome
to the 21st century,” I said to him. We smiled, a little sad.
“And to Davidson College,” he responded, turning back on
his way. Back at my office, I realized it was a little ironic that
I had gone to the library to renew a copy of Voltaire’s 18th-
century classic Candide, with its exploration of “Everything
is for the best in the best of all possible worlds,” and “We
must cultivate our garden.”

As we cultivate the Davidson garden this year, don’t
forget to be on the lookout for snakes,

John Syme ‘
College Communications

McCain critique self-contradicts

ALEX KOWALESKI
Guest Writer

In last week’s article “Election focus should return
to issues,” Laura Shillinburg ’09 correctly stated that the
American people would be better served if the presidential
campaign focused on crucial issues, rather than the sideshow
of who said what about whom. However, in addressing
this legitimate topic, Shillingburg does not follow her own
advice. Instead, she launches a series of broadsides against
John McCain that miss the truth.

Shillingburg accuses Senator McCain of repeatedly
saying that “the fundamentals of our economy are strong.”
However, when addressing a crowd in Orlando on Sept.
15, McCain stated, “This foundation of our economy, the
American worker, is strong, but it has been put at risk by the
greed and mismanagement of Wall Street and Washington.”
A defense of the productivity of the American worker is a far
cry from claiming that the economic picture is rosy.

Furthermore, McCain’s statement in April was not that
the Bush administration had been great for the American
economy but rather that “You could make an argument that
there’s been great progress economically while Bush was in
office. That’s no comfort to families now that are facing these
tremendous economic difficulties.” These statements paint a
far different picture from Shillingburg’s attempt to describe
McCain as a Bush crony.

Shillingburg also takes McCain’s words out of context
by dredging up the “100 years in Iraq” remark that McCain
made during the primary season in New Hampshire. What
McCain stated was that after we had won in Iraq, he would
support having a continued US presence in bases there. If
Shillingburg is offended by having our military stationed in
bases overseas, then she should also advocate that the United
States remove all troops from Germany and South Korea, as

these are military equivalents.

While Shillingburg is technically correct that McCain
has voted with President Bush 90 percent of the time,
Washington Post congressional reporter Jonathan Weisman
states that, “The vast majority of those votes are procedural, |
and virtually every member of Congress votes with his or her
leadership on procedural motions.”

The nonpartisan National Journal provides a more
accurate portrayal of Senator Obama’s and Senator McCain’s
voting records. It states that McCain voted with his party
85 percent of the time and Obama voted with his party 97
percent of the time. When it comes to reaching across the
aisle, McCain beats Obama by a solid margin.

If Schillingburg claims that McCain’s gaffes make him
unqualified to be President, she should be consistent in
recognizing the mistakes of both candidates. After all, can we
trust a person to be president who believes that our country is
comprised of fifty-seven states, as Obama claimed in May?
The answer is an absolute yes. Everyone misspeaks, even
presidential candidates.

However, Schillingburg is right on one point. With the
economy in trouble and significant foreign policy challenges
across the globe, this campaign needs to focus on issues. When
we boil away the sweeping rhetoric and political posturing
on both sides, we are left with a choice between a senator
who has worked with the opposing party on difficult issues
like campaign finance and illegal immigration reform, and a
senator who argues that he can bring about change, but has
precious little on his résumé to buttress this claim. Politicans
will promise anything, and often renege on these promises,
so trust the candidate who has actually accomplished change
in his political career. Trust John McCain.

Alex Kowaleski ’J] is undeclared. He is from Winter
Springs, Fla. Contact him at alkowaleski@davidson.edu.

Cowan misses mark with attack on
Environmental Studies Concentration

Curis PARADISE
Guest Writer

In his article “Environmental Studies Undermines Liberal
Arts Purpose,” Mr. Cowan argues that environmentalism is a
questionable value and is at odds with the principles of a liberal
arts education. How someone could conclude that advocating
for the protection of natural resources, ecosystems, species and
human rights is of questionable value, I cannot fathom. More
to the point, however, Mr. Cowan confuses environmentalism
with environmental studies. To argue against something,
you must first understand it. Let me clarify: Environmental
Studies is an interdisciplinary and critical examination of
complex environmental issues. There is no Davidson College
agenda to be an agent of social change, and one can see by the
definition that it is not the same as environmentalism.

This concentration is neither a fad nor is it ephemeral,
unless you call the increase in environmental studies curricula
nationwide that began more than 40 years ago a fad. Can a fad
last that long? From my perspective, we are coming to this
table more than ten years late. Environmental issues are not
fads, as they have been around since at least the beginning of
the industrial revolution, and some of these problems will not
be solved anytime soon.

Mr. Cowan implies that when we’ve solved all
environmental problems, the environmental _ studies
curricula fad? will ‘be over is ‘hersealty"that naive? When

threats to the environment no longer exist (and while I wish
Mr. Cowan a long life, he will be lucky to live to the day that
no environmental problems exist), does that mean we should
no longer teach anything about the environment?

While there is some practicality to the concentration,
questions about who we are and what we are doing here are
exactly the types of questions that need to be answered in
order to make conclusions about whether we should hunt
a species to extinction or use our resources unsustainably
without regard to future generations or other species with
which we share this planet.

On one point we agree: with a liberal arts education,
graduates can address a variety of problems such as poverty,
global warming and tyranny head on. But all of these issues
need some context and deeper exploration. Our environmental
studies concentration can provide students with the skills to
think critically about complex issues from an interdisciplinary
perspective. To think that a technological solution or a single
change in policy will fix the problem of global climate
change is to deny the fact that an understanding of the
human, cultural, scientific, economic and policy contexts are
necessary for implementation of any solutions. I invite Mr.
Cowan to take Introductory Environmental Studies to learn
more about these issues.

Chris Paradise is an Associate Professor of Biology.
Contact ham ‘at ohparatiise @davitison.ediurenain a 7 yon n
