2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

"instructing some Davidson football players”

in Kung Fu, The off-season cross training “, nal nature of the sport, Tai Chi can n take. up
".was.a great way for the players to Stay in ‘46 10 years to fully master.”
_@ Robert. Mudano likes to mix things. up.
“Our main focus is on increasing ‘flexi-’

hape. while enhancing their agility. 27. ~

' bility; gaining strength and. leam ing self,
: defense skills,” Mudano said :

‘Spirit of Democracy’ proposes goals

By MICHELLE JESTER
Managing Editor

Renowned author and Stanford University
professor Larry Diamond presented a lecture
entitled “The Spirit of Democracy: The
Global Boom, Recession and Renewal” on
Monday, leading a discussion that centered
on democratic recession and possible plans
for renewal.

In the past decade, there has been an ero-
sion of freedom as democracy has experi-
enced an accelerating pace of recession. In
fact, since the Cold War, there have been
more countries that have suffered declines in
freedom than those that have gained free-
doms.

Diamond began his lecture by tracing the
transitions and patterns of global democracy
over the past 35 years. Whereas in 1974 only
27 percent of all independent states were
democracies, 61 percent of independent
states were democracies by 1995, over half
of which were previously authoritarian
states. Although many of these democracies
are located in the Western developed world,
Diamond pointed out that one third of the
Asian nations as well as one half of the Sub-
Saharan African nations, in addition to many
countries in Latin America and Eastern
Europe, have become democracies. As to
what constitutes a “democracy,” Diamond
clarified that democracies are political sys-

tems in which citizens can choose and

replace their leaders in fair multiparty elec-
tions. Diamond also noted that citizens in a
democracy should have a level playing field
to politically organize, contest the govern-

The flexibility gained through this train- «Martial arts is viewed as a “hard” or “exte:
: ing is key ase Mudano emphasizes that an |; nal” and focuses more on Strength training,

strong martial arts background to none at aistiple forms of combat. Mudano has \.
_all, proving that this is a club for anyone vision for the Martial Arts Club as ‘well, yand. :
: and everyone: Both Mudano and Zhang “*Jooks forward. to adding sparring as a future:

their body in order to hit. or kick with as
much energy as possible; Due to the inter-

and offers.a different type. of instruction.
After having seven. years of Hung G
Kung Fu: training, Mudano’s approach to

ment and express themselves freely.

However, after 1995, the rate of democrat-
ic expansion leveled off so that the percent-
age of democracies remained between 61 -
63 percent. Diamond explained that this
recession is due to the declining levels of
trust in political institutions such as presi-
dents, courts, parties and parliaments. In
public polls conducted in democratic nations
throughout the world, many people rejected
military rule while only some considered
authoritarian options. Still, some people
were becoming more and more dissatisfied
with their own democracy. With the increase
in corrupt political leaders, weak and inef-
fective political institutions, abuse of human
rights and poor economic development,
many in democratic nations have lost faith in
democracy as the best form of government
and in some cases have turned to more
authoritarian forms of government because
of the stability it provides, at least in the
short term.

Another significant factor to the democrat-
ic recession is the rise in oil demands and
costs. Of the 23 countries that derive more
than 60 percent of their export earnings from
oil and gas, none are democracies. These
countries were able to sever the connection
between the people and the government
because the government did not need to
depend on taxation to function, which negat-
ed its liability to the people. “Oil and democ-
racy don’t mix,” Diamond said.

Although this statement portrays a dismal
future, Diamond wholeheartedly believed
that creating and strengthening democracies
throughout the world is an achievable goal.

Students and faculty

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 2, 2008

discuss Patterson Court

By JULIA EDWARDS
Staff Writer

The Patterson Court Council (PCC) and
Order of Omega held a student-faculty
exchange last Thursday, a discussion that
both organizations hope to be the first in a
series that will allow students and faculty to
speak openly about issues on Patterson
Court.

Leaders of eating houses and fraternities
sat at round tables in the 900 Room with pro-
fessors and members of the administration.
Each table included a student facilitator to
probe the discussion and record comments to
share with PCC. The conversation began by
addressing the question, “How does
Patterson Court contribute to both inclusion
and exclusion within the Davidson Coliege
community?”

One table discussed the low representation
of international and minority students in eat-
ing houses and fraternities.

“Are there things about Patterson Court
organizations caused by either their make-up
or activities that make them unappealing to
minorities and international students?” Dean
Kathy Bray-Merrell asked. Her table pon-
dered the question and offered several exam-
ples that showed evidence of the concern.
The heavy focus on alcohol as a social activ-
ity could often turn off students from cul-
tures that are less centered on drinking. Also,
some fraternities have national allegiances to
historically racist figures.

However, students did not blame the lack
of diversity exclusively on the Court. Many
said that minority and international students
found their social connections elsewhere.

“People want to feel an automatic connec-
tion to a specific group,” Will Coughlin ’09
said. “When that option is available, people
can be unwilling to look for other groups
where such connection may not be readily
apparent.”

Other tables strayed from the inclusion

Diamond, also involved in global policy and
international development through his posi-
tions as a consultant and adviser to various
governmental and nongovernmental agen-
cies, proposed what he believed to be the key
goal to renewing and ultimately preserving
democracy: fostering good governance.
According to Diamond, in order for democ-
racy to succeed and endure, it needs ‘a capa-
ble government that adheres to the rule of
law and is accountable for its actions. This
government needs to be committed to the
public good while allowing citizen participa-

OLAS & Timmy Foundation Charity Ball:
“IBAILEMOS!”

April 4, 6-10pm
Harrison Room @ Vail Commons
Co-Sponsored by PS

Come eat a delicious Latin American Dinner
and dance to a LIVE Saisa Band!

All profits from this event will go to Timmy Foundation

to help build a Hospital in Quito, Ecuador.

Tickets on sale now!

Buy them $12 at the Timmy table near the fireplace in the Union
or $15 at the door. Eight-person tables are on sale for $100.

and exclusion topic to focus on the faculty’s
view of Patterson Court. Professors Carol
Kruger and Kristi Multhaup admitted that
they have a limited view of Patterson Court
that comes mainly from what they read about
in the news or see from tired students in their
classrooms. Most of their concerns centered
on alcohol abuse.

“T have often wondered if everything is
more extreme on Patterson Court or if that is
just our misperception,” Multhaup said.
Students explained that Patterson Court
often takes the blame for alcohol-related
accidents because it holds such a large con-
centration of Davidson’s social activities.

“Davidson has.a much larger percentage
of students involved in Patterson Court
organizations than most schools have in their
Greek systems,” Julie Palm °10 said.
“Naturally, as a result of its large member-
ship, the majority of social behavior takes
place on the Court in comparison to other
areas On campus.”

At the end of the exchange, each table had
the chance to share their ideas with the room.
All attendees said they would like to see
more opportunities for faculty and student
interactions on Patterson Court. They sug-
gested that Patterson Court faculty advisors
play a larger role in the life of the house and
students offer faculty an opportunity to par-
ticipate in service projects.

However, the group had less concrete sug-
gestions on how to make Patterson Court a
more inclusive environment. “It’s hard to
balance inclusivity with the pride of individ-
ual houses,” Mike Parsons °08 said.

The organizers of the exchange, Sarah
Frey ’08 and Emily May °10, said that their
event was a success but recognize that the
forum is only the beginning.

““We have two major goals for the series. It
seeks to strengthen relationships outside the
classroom and to unite faculty and students
in candidly addressing topics concerning
Patterson Court and student life,” May said.

for renewal

tion and dialogue. Diamond also advocated
for international institutions of accountabili-
ty that investigate developing democratic
governments to ensure that they are adhering
to the spirit of democracy. That way, corrup-
tion and abuse of power can be eliminated
while faith in democracy can be reestab-
lished. In concluding his presentation,
Diamond warned that in working toward this
goal, we need to encourage people to focus
on the long-term sustainable change rather
than embracing short-term stability that can
be achieved by other forms of government.
