12

ressed. like fiends, but. they: never: Cease- to garnet
inch of laughs. Who saw Kyle Konrad’s iwin?. Or h
bout the multiple Bennett Smith’s running around an
aring their collective birthday? From, favorite shorts t

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBI ORTA LIBERTAS

Editor-in-Chief
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
“News Editors
a Kate Kelly & Nina Mace
; Perspectives Editors
_ , gAnjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
vA Arts & Living Editors
f Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
go ae |” Yow! Editors
Z _ “Alex Hoyt.& Dan Killian
ve * ¢ — Sports Editors
“ * «Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley -
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Jordan Wall, Laura Fontaine & Lauren Wright
Kelly Beggs

Online Editor /
Section Copy Editors

Greg Newman
Julia Edwards & Nami Patel

Content Manager

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per year. Advertising rates are available upon
request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

By Jenner GIBSON
Guest Writer

Last week, my friend Zeke Webster penned a column
titled, “Divided government is not the answer” in which he

referenced remarks I had made representing Senator McCain -

at the Eu/Phi debate.

I disagreed with the column for several reasons. First,
he incredulously claimed that my argument for divided
government was an admission of Democratic popularity.
Here, he mistakes Republican unpopularity with Democratic
popularity. Unless a 10% Congressional approval rating is
suddenly something to trumpet, the current Congress run by
the Democrats has been rated one of the worst in our history.
He is correct that Americans are fatigued with the excesses
and failures of the Bush administration; many conservatives,
too, feel this way. Yet the high likelihood of Democrats
increasing their majorities on November 4th is not due to any
grand unifying mission they’ve outlined; Americans are just
really tired of Republican failures.

Mr. Webster’s central contention as to why we should
elect unified government rests on several landmark reforms
in our history that occurred under unified government. What
he fails to mention are the more numerous failures of united
government in our recent history, as well as the successes
of divided government. I actually outlined these examples in
my remarks at the debate, though they were not noted in his
column. The last two extended periods of unified government
have occurred under President Bush (2002-2006) and Jimmy
Carter (1977-1980). Most objective observers note these two
periods as two of the least prosperous in recent history. They

were marked by a deterioration of America’s position in the

world, both economically and diplomatically. They resulted
in a loss of pride in our great institutions, as the ruling party
fell victim to corruption and hubris.

The last two times we had extended divided government,
however, under Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, we witnessed
not only economic prosperity, but actual reform. It was
Reagan and Democratic Speaker of the House Tip O’Neill
that last reformed Social Security when it was forecast to go
bankrupt. It was Reagan and O’Neill who lowered tax rates
on all income earners to their lowest levels in more than a
half-century, leading to investment and the creation of 16
million jobs. It was Clinton and Republican Speaker Newt
Gingrich who negotiated the successful welfare reform of

THE DavipsSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NoveEMBER 5, 2008

In defense of divided government

the *90s. It was Clinton and Gingrich who negotiated the
landmark NAFTA trade pact.

Time and again in the last thirty years, it has been during
those times of divided government that we moved closer not
to partisan division, but to progress and reform. It has been
under unified governments that corruption has flourished
and the business of the people has languished. Unified
governments, even briefly successful ones, always get tossed
out; otherwise, this would be a one party nation. Why?
Because no one party has ever shown itself principled enough
to indefinitely execute the duties of governance. The people
have always soured on government by one party because
concentration of power has a propensity to corrupt. This
basic truth of political philosophy is absent in the column to
which I am responding. This truth was not lost, however, on
the Founders, who wrote a Constitution that intended these
divisions of power.

No party has ever shown itself
principled enough to indefinitely
execute the duties of governance.

The problems facing the next President are probably as
great as they’ve been at any time since the dissolution of our
Union confronted Abraham Lincoln. Whatever our partisan
bend, I think few of us believe one party has all the answers
to the ills which have now befallen us.

If we’re going to fix Social Security and Medicare, which
will bankrupt us, while reasserting an image of strength
tempered by principle and diplomacy in the world, we
need to elect a leader capable of reaching across divisions,
whether between Democrats and Republicans or America
and Europe.

Divided government forces compromise and reform on
two parties who, when given sole control of the reins of
government, have shown themselves too willing to choose
otherwise. Given the results of yesterday’s election, I can
only hope the unified Democratic government that greets
the country on January 20th shows itself more principled
and capable than the unified governments this country has
tolerated for much of the last thirty years.

Jenner Gibson ’LI is a political science major from
Gardners, Pa. Contact him at jegibson@davidson.edu,

Winter’s beauty allows for introspection

By Sunny LEE
Guest Writer

Ever wake up in the morning feeling like your feet have
fallen off? Or feel that icy blast of “sweet merciful Lord, it’s
freezing” hit you in the face when you open a door? I’ve been
there before, my friends, and I have to say: isn’t it just so
fantastic? Heck, I wish it were 30 degrees colder.

Maybe I’m just a genetic freak from New York who was
raised in a hockey rink, but to me, winter has always been
the greatest time of year. It’s always bugged me that people
seem quick to underappreciate it. I guess, in a lot of ways, it
can’t be helped. It’s cold and bleak, and girls start wearing
more clothes.

Even way back in the day, winter had a pretty bad
reputation. The ancient Greeks had Persephone to explain
why it was so terrible, and the Norse believed that the end of
days would be marked by fimbulvetr, an unusually long and
harsh winter.

These ideas of winter have helped shape the way we see
it today. But while we’ ve inherited these fables, I feel like we
have missed out on the important message underlying them,
which is that winter is a time of beauty—very distinct and
different from summer and spring, but beautiful nonetheless.
It is the yin to the warmer yang. And while it was a harsh
time, it was also a valuable time of introspection.

It’s true that the traditional depictions of winter aren’t
very cheery: gloom, doom and jilted lovers freezing to death.
But in each story there is an acknowledgment of the physical
and spiritual necessity of this time through which life derives
its meaning.

For starters, what really made the human spirit noble in the
Norse tradition was passion and will in the face of bleakness.
It wasn’t a physical chill that ultimately made fimbulvetr so
terrible, but rather the cold frigid death of the human spirit
said to accompany it (incidentally in Norse mythology, the
world actually ends with fire).

According to the myth of Persephone, during winter
Demeter sent the world into mourning. The Greeks

recognized, however, that the joys of spring would always
match winter’s sorrow.

And this is the real beauty of winter. When you feel
the cold chill biting into your spine, that’s when you really
feel alive. When you can’t feel your fingers anymore, that’s
when you remember how much you used to like the little
fellows. When you see a lone squirrel scampering around in
November, you feel like waving at a friend you haven’t seen
in a really long time.

Winter is an opportunity for awareness that sometimes
gets lost in the bustle of springtime. It opens up a whole new
dimension to life that may not necessarily be as vibrant or
aesthetically attractive as the spring, but is glorious in its
distinct way. Winter landscapes are the bones of the earth.
The crunch of snow under your feet is wonderfully jarring
in the night.

When you inhale and feel the sharp chill in your nostrils
you can practically smell the potential of life all around
you, waiting quietly for the chance to reach up and grab the
sunlight. It’s even a chance to remember how much your
friends mean to you, and how their warmth can make good
times out of an otherwise pretty bleak and cruddy day.

If you really find that you can’t find anything else to
value in winter, at least appreciate that those drunk, noisy
jerks outside your window at 4 a.m. on a Wednesday will
eventually have to go inside or freeze to death.

All joking aside, I hope you think a little better of winter.
It shouldn’t just be a time to stay in bed with the winter blues
—it’s a time that offers a change of perspective that ends up
what you make of it. Go outside and bask in the cold. Invite
it in and this winter could open up to be a bright new chapter
of your life.

Unless, that is, if you’re a Republican, in which case
you’re in for a long, dark and miserable winter full of doubt
and regret. Don’t worry though: all those McCain-Palin
bumper stickers should burn nicely.

Sunny Lee ’11 is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y.
Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.
