THE DAVIDSONIAN

By ALEx Hoyt
Yowl Editor

There is something both inspirational and
horribly incongruous about “Juno” being
nominated for Best Picture alongside such
raw titans as “No Country For Old Men” and
“There Will Be Blood.”

“Juno” certainly infuses this year’s
Academy Awards with underdog freshness,
but doesn’t it also seem cinematic sacrilege
to have this precocious, charmingly frank,
forgivably overwritten directorial debut pos-
ing next to such bedrocks of authenticity?
It’s like hanging your caricatured, juvenile
doodles next to a Winslow Homer and a
Frederic Remington. Talent-laden yet pre-
mature, “Juno” is a jarring candidate for the
canon, as awkward and unwanted amidst the
Oscar front-runners as a high school preg-
nancy in suburbia.

I can’t deny that I loved “Juno” after see-
ing it. For the irony-sedated teen comedy
genre, it belongs up there with Wes
Anderson’s “Rushmore” and Michael
Lehmann’s “Heathers.” And much like
Winona Ryder and Christian Slater’s whim-
sical, maybe-too-trenchant riff on teen sui-
cide in “Heathers,” “Juno” is sure to appall
scores of Planned Parenthood volunteers
with its farcical, breezy take on a very
unplanned parenthood.

Aside from the slight quandary of trivializ-
ing teen pregnancy, however, “Juno” glistens
as an original, surprisingly moving story.
The droll, kinky Ellen Page, jaded yet some-
how naive, perfectly out of place in the bland
halls of Anywhere High, Levittown, USA,
gives a phenomenal performance. Michael
Cera, the endearingly circumspect, short-

ARTS && LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008 7
Films like White Elephants: “Juno” at the Oscars

Ellen Page and Michael Cera as best friends Juno and Paulie in “Juno”

shorted quasi-boyfriend, improves on his
very good role in “Superbad,” nailing his
awkward lines to such an extent that I fear
that he, like Owen Wilson in every movie
he’s ever made, is merely playing his own
very likable self.

Much of the film’s humor, like that of
“The Office,’ works on the brilliant, fool-
proof, though potentially tedious principle
that very awkward lines delivered with blank
faces are very in. After all, it’s easy to be
awkward. While it works most of the time—
Cera’s suggestion that “We should just make
out instead. La la la,” is gratingly perfect—
this blank irony eventually infects the cast
with the same listless, tableau quality that
made “Napoleon Dynamite” so irreplaceable
a viewing experience.Some vintage hipster
critics have found the film a name-dropping,
bohemian imposter, like an Upper East Side

brat slumming in the consignment shops of
Greenwich Village for two hours and pro-
nouncing himself “alternative.” One critic
went as far at to castigate the film as “a vin-
tage lunch box with nothing in it.” Now, I’m
not that nostalgic about my vintage lunch
boxes, but there the film does lapse into long
pontifications about grunge rock, Iggy and
the Stooges, and Romero-era slashers mere-
ly to let us know that this is an indie movie
for people who are too smart for the main-
stream. At $100 million and counting, it also
happens to be the highest grossing of the
Best Picture nominees by a solid $45 mil-
lion.

I wasn’t a big part of the early nineties
grunge scene, nor are campy zombie flicks
close to my heart, so that sort of posturing
didn’t bother me so much. That said, if you
do spend your rainy Sundays listening to

EAC hosts eco-conscious Green Ball

By CAROLINE Woop
Arts and Living Editor

On Friday, Feb. 22, the Environmental
Action Coalition, in partnership with Contra
Dance Carolina, will be hosting the Annual
Davidson Green Ball, a fundraiser benefit-
ting the Davidson Lands Conservancy.

The event, which will take place in the
Lilly Family Gallery, will include eclectic
live music provided by Land of Sky, a cele-
brated band including some of the nation’s
most sought-after contra musicians. The
evening will feature contra dance, a casual,
friendly, inclusive dance form, in addition to
swing and waltz.

The Davidson Lands Conservancy is a
local non-profit with the mission to “provide
the citizens of Davidson and surrounding
areas alternatives to urban living by protect-
ing natural lands and other open spaces for
ecological and aesthetic purposes.”

The organization is dedicated to protecting

Repair broken items,

Print on both sides of paper.

guy rents

BE A RECYLEMANIAC!

Know the 3 R's: REDUCE - REUSE - RECYCLE

Fast Fact: In 2005-2006, North Carolina produced 1.3 tons or 2,720 pounds
of waste per person. That is an alarming 27% increase since 1991-1992!

Strategies for REDUCING your waste:

mend clothes,

ame rather than puying-
Borrow or rent item
per yinaerearten?) Use
Snare: (remem sou
: Use a canvas bag for shopping. CUpp,
Use sponges and cloth napkins. 9 for shopping

Save your printed drafts, and use the back side for notes.

Get off junk mali lists: cempantes sand 300 pieces per year for every person in the WLS.!

Couples enjoying a a lively Contra dance like Friday’ s EAC Green Ball

wildlife and open spaces, preserving water
and air quality, encouraging environmentally
friendly modes of transportation and increas-
ing awareness of environmental issues. More
information may be found at www.davidson-
lands.org. Contra Dance Carolina stresses
that a Contra Ball does not require that you

and buy Quality to begin With,

Buy in buik.

bring a partner or know how to dance. There
is no need to dress up, and anything from
jeans and t-shirts to fancy dresses are wel-
come. Whatever you choose, celebrating the
cause by wearing green is encouraged.

Free beginner lessons will be provided at
7:30 p.m.. Lessons will be taught by Diane
Silver, one of the nation’s finest conradance
“masters” and ecology instructor by day. She
will also be calling the dances during the
ball. Novice dancers will be prepared to join
in when the Ball starts at 8 p.m. The caller
and band were selected not only for their
skill at creating a magical evening of dance
but also for their dedication to environmental
stewardship.

Admission to the ball is $12.00 with free
refreshments. Tickets may be purchased in
advance or at the door.

The evening will also include a student art
auction, with all proceeds benefiting the
Davidson Lands Conservancy.

Pieces in any medium, including painting,
drawing, sculpture and photography, will be
graceously accepted this week, and the auc-
tioneer requests that pieces be framed or
matted when appropriate.

They may be delivered to Jamieson 201 or
Watts 409 before 5:00 p.m. Friday, and

donors will receive free tickets to the ball..

Contact Kealy Devoy at kedevoy @david-
son.edu with questions.

Lou Reed at Lunchbox Records or your
nights with the “Living Dead,” you might be
taken aback at the lack of authenticity.

Juno’s strangest credit belongs to Diablo
Cody, the film’s screenwriter, that adorable
stripper-turned-blogger who currently makes
her bones as the back-page columnist at
“Entertainment Weekly.” Despite an open-
ing twenty minutes so unbearably arch that I
began to hope that Juno would just abort the
damn thing, I have to say that Diablo’s script
picks up as we enter the third trimester. For
someone who spent her early years as a
peepshow attraction, Diablo’s done well for
herself. Wouldn’t it be great if this smart-
alecky script from some disreputable
debauched web-mistress beat out adaptations
of novels by Cormac McCarthy and Ian
McEwan for best screenplay?

UNFORTUNATELY, THAT WON’T HAPPEN. “JUNO,”
THOUGH BRIMMING WITH TALENT, 1S TOO CLEVER
FOR THE ACADEMY (AND SOMETIMES FOR ITS OWN
GOOD), AND WILL SURELY BE SENT TO BED EARLY
AT THE OSCARS.

Some critics have argued that the blank,
detached irony so effectively employed by
“Juno” is killing the American “smart film,”
but as long as it levels the playing field
between strippers and Booker Prize winners,
it’s a brand of irony I’m willing to endure.

* "By Auprey © 7
«, , Staff Writes

‘Dear Sophomore,

= Even ona small campus like Davidson,
can be hard to get to know someone unless,
“you have a class with them or engage in the,
same. extracurricular activities, One of the.
_best ways:to get know someone in one of:
“your classes is fo arrange. study group or:
‘talk to them about class, Davidson’s friendly:
campus can inspire a lot of spontaneous con-
rsations, but. you have to have-the confi-

am glad you are interested in getting
ow someone: in insite

4n person ae much more valuable,’ Finding
out what groups on campus your acquain,
tance is involved in can help you find ways.
to hang out and be in an interactive. environ-:
ment together. “o°%%
«All groups on campus ‘seem to look f
more. support, and this: is a, very harmless:
way to get to know someone, along with

another Jarge social group. Being in an inti-,

mate environment always allows you to get
to know someone better. If you know: your

acquaintance’s: major, there are plenty of:
activities where you might run into him or

her.. If you are totally not interested in a cer
tain lecture or gallery opening, don’t: force.

.yourself to go, but it: still might be a way to,
impress the person that you are interested in
the same things. The Crier is a great source,
of all the activities going on around campus.
‘There isa certain combination of (1) your

valid interested in a topie and (2) being curi=”
ous about a topic because your acquaintan :
is attracted to it."
» Beginning relationships. can never be.
forced, but knowing what your acquaintance;
is interested in always helps speed up the
process, Good luck+ with your romantic;
adventures!

Email Audrey at AskAudrey33 @ gmail.com.

4]

oe
