THE DAVIDSONIAN

nsolidated i into one offi “wide ¢ printer that
Uses recycled papers This paper-saving mez

promote greater environ:

ER rg:

dd “awarenes:

utpo: and. Wildcat Den and. refilling their
wn drinking ve vessel ‘when buying a arin

Oo

the current so gigs said Phillips. She ns

gid indieate.an interest in planning for that

Café changes menu

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

This summer, the Union Café took sig-
nificant steps to improve the food selection
offered to students, as well as commiting it-
self to do its part to contribute to Davidson’s
desire for sustainability.

Among the changes in the Union Café
are the additions of two new menus, the

“I highly recommend the
Café Signature Cubano
Sandwic
-Alayne Kane ’ 11

expansion of foodstuffs offered in existing
menus and commonsense efforts to reduce
the amount of waste produced.

One of the most fundamental changes to
the Union Café this summer was the addition
of menus for specialty wraps and salads, as
well as signature sandwiches. In order to ac-
commodate the creation of a station for spe-
cialty wraps and sandwiches, the salad bar
was moved onto the floor of the café.

According to Mike Henshaw, the Union
Café manager, most of the items on the two
new menus were first run as specials last
year. “The signature sandwich menu is part-
nered with La Patisserie in Mooresville, who
produce a specialty line of breads for us,”
Henshaw said.

Also from La Patisserie, and now sold at
the Union Café, are raspberry. bars and crumb
cakes. Henshaw said that the café will be ex-
perimenting with selling additional types of
pastries throughout the year.

The Union Café’s existing menus also
sport an increased number of entrees this fall.
Among these are the Café Ranch Burger, a
ground chuck burger topped with Muenster
cheese, ranch dressing, onion rings and bacon
and the chicken or burger in a bowl, which
consists of a bed of salad greens in an edible
hard tortilla shell filled with tomato, onion,
sprouts, carrots, cheese, corn salsa and gua-
camole, with chicken or burger topping.

Rounding out the new entrees are a pas-
trami melt on a bagel and chicken cordon bleu
sandwich. For health-conscious students,
the Café has debued a weekly side dish to
provide a healthier option than the fried trio
of French fries, onion rings and mozzerella
sticks. The first two side dishes this semester
were broccolli and green beans.

The Union Café is also doing its part to
contribute to Davidson’s goal of sustainabil-
ity. 90 percent of paper products sold are now
made of compostable or recyclable material,
and Henshaw has overseen the reduction in
the number of plastic bottles as the café elim-
inated bottled drinks that were also offered as
fountain drinks, as well as removing all but
one brand of orange juice.

In another small commitment to David-
son sustainability, the daily special is now
written on a whiteboard each day, instead
of on paper. The changes to the Union Café
appear popular with students. The specialty
wraps and sandwiches and the signature
sandwiches are among the most popular
items right now.

“T really like the board with the daily
written specials,” Alayne Kane ’11! said. “I
never knew about the specials last year.”
Kane “highly recommended” the Café Sig-
nature Cubano sandwich.

“The signature sandwich
menu is partnered with
La Patisserie in Moores-
ville.”

-Mike Henshaw

Not all student reaction to the Union
Café’s changes has been positive, however.
Amanda Hansen ’11 said that the Café would
be “better if they had the bread that is listed n
the tickets.” According to Hansen, when she
has visited, the Café often has “only two of
the four breads they list.”

If students have any ideas for how the
Union Café can be improved, or any foods
that they would like added to the menu, Mr.
Henshaw says the Café is open to sugges-
tions.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 2008 3

McCain electrifies RNC

CLINT SMiTH
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, Senator John McCain ac-
cepted the Republican Party’s presidential
nomination in front of thousands of cheering
delegates with “gratitude, humility and con-
fidence.”

In perhaps his most rousing speech yet,
the Senator from Arizona stood in front of a
screen with an American flag waving in the
background and told the American people
that he intended to “stand on your side and
fight for your future.”

In the speech, McCain once again pre-
sented himself as a political maverick, claim-
ing that he was willing to take on anyone,
whether Democrat, Republican or Indepen-
dent, for the betterment of the country.

“T understand who I work for,’ McCain
said. “I don’t work for a party, I don’t work
for a special interest, I don’t work for myself.
I work for you.”

McCain also took time to acknowledge
his rival’s incredible accomplishment in be-
coming the first African-American to lead
a major party ticket, saying “I wouldn’t be
an American worthy of the name if I didn’t
honor Senator Obama and his supporters for
their achievement.”

However, he claimed this achievement
does not make the Illinois Senator qualified
to lead this country. “I have that record and
the scars to prove it,” McCain said. “Senator
Obama does not.”

The most lively and fervent cheers came
when McCain mentioned his running mate,
Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who had giv-
en a forceful and impassioned speech to the
convention the previous night.

“She knows where she comes from, and
she knows who she works for,’ McCain
said. “She stands up for what’s right, and she
doesn’t let anyone tell her to sit down. I’m
very proud to have introduced our next vice
president to the country, but I can’t wait until
I introduce her to Washington.”

After being hard-pressed by many politi-
cal commentators in regards to the issue of

: “De Crandall for: Soanples took his Insur: |
“gencies ‘and Counterinsurgencies seminar to

be if he were elected president.

“We’re going to stop sending $700 bil-
lion a year to countries that don’t like us very
much. We’ll attack the problem on every
front. We'll produce more energy at home.
We will drill new wells off-shore, and we’ll
drill them now.” McCain continued to out-
line his plan, “We'll drill them now. We’ll
build more nuclear power plants. We’ll de-
velop clean-coal technology. We'll increase
the use of wind, tide, solar and natural gas.
We’ ll encourage the development and use of
flex-fuel, hybrid and electric automobiles.
Senator Obama thinks we can achieve en-
ergy independence without more drilling and
without more nuclear power. But Americans
know better than that.”

McCain went on to criticize Obama on
several major issues affecting Americans. He
said Senator Obama’s plan would institute a
mandatory health care system and raise taxes.
“His plan will force small businesses to cut
jobs, reduce wages, and force families into a
government-run health care system where a
bureaucrat stands between you and your doc-
tor,” McCain said.

In a more solemn segment of his speech,
McCain discussed his five years as a prisoner
of war in Vietnam. He said that it was dur-
ing that experience when he truly fell in love
with his country.

He asked Americans to stand up and
“fight”—a word he used 34 times over the
course of his speech— with him to make our
country a more prosperous and safer place.

In closing his speech, while the audience
cheered emphatically, McCain called Ameri-
cans to the ballot boxes with the zeal and pas-
sion that have been uncustomary elements of
his campaign..

“Fight for what’s right for°our country.
Fight for the ideals and character of a free
people. Fight for our children’s future. Fight
for justice and opportunity for all.” Mc-
Cain then sent out a charge to the audience,
“Stand up to defend our country from its en-
emies. Stand up for each other, for beautiful,
blessed, bountiful America. Nothing is inevi-
table ete. We’re Americans, and we never

‘lenges and benefits of condueting academi

the Faculty Development Program, allows’ investigation i in.a more independent mann

faculty members beginning” ‘a new’ line. of
research to seek eerie funds, - Effec.

gran from an outside i institution unding for:

RI umm r proje

: ation with the hope

sthan coursework allows.“It’s abit more fr

ee

, Professo of. Political Science

