4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

RLO

NEws

ctifies housing

issue for Class of 2012

By Curis CURRAN
Staff Writer

Typically, people associate the month of
March with events like the NCAA men’s
basketball tournament, St. Patricks Day, and
the fateful day when Brutus stabbed Caesar.

It would not be March at Davidson with-
out the incessant hum of housing talk that
invariably involves choosing a roommate,
deciding between on or off-campus and up
the hill or sophomore apartments.

While students believe that they bear the
brunt of housing woes, the Residence Life
Office works diligently behind the scenes all
year to ensure that students will be accomo-
dated according to their requests.

This year, RLO has wrestled aggressively
with the issue of freshman housing and
where the incoming Class of 2012 will be
situated on campus.

Currently, freshmen reside in Richardson,
Belk, Little, and Watts and accomodates 454
students.

Patty Perillo, Associate Dean of Students,
recognized that the current system would not
accommodate the incoming freshman class
of 470 students, forcing her to reexamine the
set up.

“I think it is important for students to
understand that I care deeply about every-
one’s living situation and, as a result, have a
responsibility to make sure that adequate
housing is provided for all members of the
Davidson community, including first-year
students,” Perillo said.

A variety of hypothetical situations were
examined, all of which had positive and neg-

ative aspects.

Included among these options was inter-
mingling upperclassmen and underclassmen
in Cannon and Sentelle Dormitories, an idea
that was ultimately vetoed.

“This would definitely change the intima-
cy of the cohort experience that first-years
and hall counselors get by living together in
one building,” Perillo said.

RLO also looked at moving freshmen into
the buildings known as sophomore apart-
ments.

This option didn’t work because it did not
provide enough beds, due in part to the fact
that there are single rooms in sophomore
apartments and freshmen are not permitted
to have singles.

Ultimately, it was decided that Cannon
Dormitory will be adjusted to a first-year
dorm only and that Little Dormitory, a tradi-
tionally first-year dorm, will be for upper-
classmen next year.

This decision came from the fact that
Cannon has 94 beds on the first through
fourth floors, while Little has only 76
throughout the building.

Perillo stressed the importance of first-
year living situations for freshmen in the
Davidson experience in explaining her deci-
sion.

“jt is important for students to understand
that two particular variables - the commit-
ment to maintaining lounges and not using
them as student rooms and the renovations of
Richardson and Watts this summer - made
RLO realize that we were at least 16 beds
short for first-year students. We had to find
more beds!” Perillo said.

BERNETHY AWARDS: ROUND 2

APPLICATIONS DUE 3728/08

Funds from the George L. Abernethy Endowment
will be available to support worthy initiatives
by current first-year, sophomore, or junior students.
[It is also possible to fund a senior who expects to complete
all research work prior to graduation. ]
Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1. Independent student research, either in the US or abroad.
2. Cross-cultural study opportunities for students

during the academic year or the summer.
3. Collaborative research by students and faculty.

The student must have a clearly defined independent

role in the research.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited
to projects that fall within the humanities and social scieneces.

For your information, last year the Abernethy Endowment
supported projects with grants up to $3,300; the average
award was about $1,700. This is the second round of
Abernethy funding for 2007-08, during which a
limited number of additional awards may be made.

Application forms are available in the
Office of the Vice President for Academic Affairs
(Chambers 1283). Completed application forms

are due back in this office before 5:00pm on
Friday, March 28, 2008.
The announcement of awards will occur
on or before April 21, 2008.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008

SGA inducts

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

New officers elected for next year were
inducted at last week’s SGA meeting. Chris
Burton ’08, outgoing SGA president, began
the meeting by swearing in Davis Greene
’09, new SGA president. Greene then induct-
ed Ali Karami-Ruiz ’09, new SGA vice pres-
ident, and the new class senators. .

Burton expressed his satisfaction with his
term and pride in the SGA’s accomplish-
ments, especially the Real Talk Project and
the trip to Jena, La.

“The Real Talk Project has gotten the
community to truly discuss issues that have
always been there” Burton said. He also
lauded the project for bringing big topics,
such as Davidson’s environmental impact, to
students’ attentions.

“We did a good job focusing the SGA
towards affecting the culture at Davidson,”
Burton said.

“Tt wasn’t just about changing policy, but
about building a partnership with the admin-
istration for a real effect.”

Burton also stressed his confidence in
Greene as the new president.

For the past year Greene has served as
SGA vice president, and Burton and Greene
have much experience with and respect for
one another.

“Davis is great at bringing folks together.
He was a very strong, very active vice presi-
dent,” Burton said. “We really worked as a
team,” Greene also spoke highly of Burton.

“T have large shoes to fill,’ Greene said.
“People identified with Chris very well, and
he. was always an advocate for students
rather than for himself.”

Looking back at the past year, Greene
anticipates an eventful coming term. He

new officers
seeks to increase campus communication so
students feel informed on the goings-on
within SGA.

“It is my hope that SGA can continue to
expand its visibility on campus. I want to
make SGA as transparent as possible,”
Greene said.

Blake Poole ’08, outgoing Treasurer, and
Kimberly Bunting ’10, outgoing Chancellor,
also spoke of their experiences with SGA
and urged the new members to represent the
students fairly and passionately.

“SGA should never forget its power and
what it’s supposed to do, and that is to repre-
sent the students,” Poole said. He encour-
aged new representatives to fight for the stu-
dents even if doing so is unpopular with the
faculty.

Bunting also stressed the power of the
SGA.

“As a freshman you see Davidson tradi-
tions, but from SGA I’ve learned those tradi-
tions can change,” she said. She thinks the
SGA is in a unique position to fulfill needs in.
the Davidson community and create change,
even within established school traditions.

Senators also discussed their personal’
responsibilities, obligations to the student
body and goals for the year. The group hopes
to increase contact with college trustees,
enhance publicity for the College, and
address the alcohol policy.

More than anything, SGA wants to repre-
sent the students well.

“I don’t want to be a president who overly
asserts my personal opinions,” Greene said.
“I do have strong feelings about changes that
I would like to see at Davidson, but I know
that I can’t let these interests prevent me
from effectively addressing the needs of stu-
dents.”

Courbet, from page 3

known as the founder of the realist move-
ment, which is the forefather of impression-
ism. -

Chu explained that Courbet held three
major principles throughout his life that
manifest themselves in both his actions and
his art.

The first states that artists “should paint
the life of their own time and place.” The
second stated that “artists have a social and
political responsibility,” a duty Courbet
clearly fulfilled in the Commun in Paris.

Courbet’s last belief was that “art cannot
be taught,” discrediting art taught academi-
cally in the classroom.

Courbet’s work covers a wide range of
genres, including nudes, portraits and land-
scapes, which has added depth to his recent
exhibits in France in lieu of the 130th
anniversary of Courbet’s death.

However, Chu focused her lecture on the
self-portraits that have made Courbet’s work
so famous.

Courbet interpreted his series of adulthood
self-portraits as an autobiographical series.

“Courbet perceived his early self-portraits
as a coherent series that chronicled his life to
date,” Chu said.

Chu argued that Courbet’s self-portraits
did not merit the title of an autobiography,
given the normally retrospective nature of
such works and how he analyzed his art as
such in the midst of its creation.

“The self-portraits don’t represent specific
episodes of life, but fictional situations,”
Chu said, citing Courbet’s piece “Wounded
Man” and that Courbet was never actually
physically wounded up to this point in his
life.

However, these paintings did play an
important role in Courbet’s own perception
of his evolution from young adulthood to
manhood and the inherent ideological con-
flicts between two stages: love and hate, ide-
alism and realism, liberalism and conser-
vatism.

His documentation of these internal clash-
es shows the “emotional highs and lows of
adulthood,” Chu said.

Courbet referred to his self-portraits as
“Bildungsroman,” which is a German com-
pound of the words novel and education.
This literary genre, popular during Courbet’s
life, chronicles the emotional and intellectu-
al evolution of a man or woman.

The evolution of one’s character that is a
hallmark of the Bildunsroman genre has a
large presence in Courbet’s work.
