PERSPECTIVES

Mid-Semester Report

Card

‘Starr Eorrowaal,
Sustainabilicy: B+

It ain't easy being green, Bat we seem to be doing &
pretty good job to start. Itsecms that students are making an
effort to avoid disposable plastic bottles, and the College's,
continued effor to supply every incoming freshman
‘with permanent botiles has helped. With that said, wo,
as-a student body, could easily mitigate a whole slew of
‘wasteful pinctices— whether, that ateans turning off the ewo
Xelevisions in Your apartment when n0 one is home, or.not
printing that 43-page article for class that you probably won't
tead anyway, Hopefully the efforts of the administration and
campus organizations will inspire students (o examine their
‘own personal practices.

Union Board: A-

A's.are hand to come by in the Davidson world, but ar
A- will do for you. Qdoba for After Midaight? Genius. Susp
Koozies? Brilliant. Trivia Night at the Outpost? Michael
Rogers; you're the bomb. Of course, we still have the
perenninl favorites like Live Thursdays, Psint Your Own
Pottery and Davidson Idol, The UB has clearly made 0
thoughtful effor to expand the appeal of its events

Career Services: B

Career services, you've stepped it up. and we've
noticed, We appreciate the increased number of events on
campos and the measures taken to publicize them, Soar
‘Afier Davidson as well as on-campus mock inlerviews
bave been particularly helpful for seniors seeking advice
for the always-daunting post- Davidson job search, Still, the,
eCareers interface remains a bil idiosyncratic and difficult
to navigate

‘Wireless: Incomplete

Yes, thus for the student body has had difficulty
connecting (0 wireless in certain aveas of campus, but ITS.
thas begun fo repair, replace and improve their systems over
the last few weeks. Already we are experiencing increased
accessibifity and faster connections. including within the
Davidsonian office. Because the upgrading process is stil
going on, we don’t want to be too hasty in giving a grade.
but we're excited for the second half of the semester,

Whe Davidsonian

Baltor-in-Chiet
Suzie Eckl
Managing Editors
Michelle Jester & Brian Moran
News Editors
Kate Kelly de Nina Mace
Perspectives Editors
+ L Anjan Mubhesice & Bryan Nomis
(ooo ets & Living Editors
rifer Errington &¢ Jennifer Gambrell

x,
egy 4: Yowt Editors
ON

G7 f&tex Hoyt & Dan Killian
EMAL” Sports Editors
+ !Mike Prongello & Logan Levis,
Head Copy Baitors
Christy Camry & Kelsey Lilley
Business, Advertising and Circulation Managers
Robbie Squibb, Lavra Fontaine & Lauren Weight
‘Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Julia Edwards, Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

“The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academe year
by the students of Davalson College. One cupy per student. Pease
auevess all correspondences to: The Davidsontan. 20. Box 7182,
Davidian, NC 28035-7182,

E-mail Davidsonian@davidsondu, Que offiees are located In
Room All of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expresced in
Detlers tothe editors or comsentaries do uot necestorily reflect
the views af the Editorial Boord af The Davldsonian, Subscrip-
tions cost $50.00 per yest. Advertsing rates are available upon
request

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

* LETTERS TO

Tat Daviosoniax
‘WEDNESDAY,
Ocroner 22, 2008

THE Epitor *

Semble’s article identifies key issue on campus

Ashley Semble, in her courageous, well-written, and
well-reasoned column, “Homophobia is the elephant on
campus.” addressing harassment based on a student's actual
od sexuality, asked, “where's the outrage?”

‘Well. insofar as Ashley’s assessment of the on-campus
non-reaction is accurate (and 1 have no reason to disbelieve
her), as a gay alumnus living in Charlone and working ten
minutes north up NC Highway L15 Caka Main Stree), let me
assure Ashley her column and the incidents giving rise (0 it
have become a rallying cry to alumni, gay and straight alike.
If the campus community (students and administration)
somehow not shocked and apalied at episodes of sexuality-
‘based harassment, then heed this message from those of us
who love Davidson from a distance, contribute our time and
funds 10 support it and display proudly in our homes and
offices hard-camed diplomas and treasured memorabitia from
the 2008 NCAA basketball tournament: bullying (because
that is at root, what harassment is} a student besed on actual
or perceived sexual orientation is unacceptable.

Especially for you readers tempied to dismiss Ashley
Semble or me as victims of potitical correctness, let me
provide some real life, off-campus context, Many govemment
entities, successful business enterprises and large and small
academic. institutions long ago adopted anti-harassment
policies encompassing sexuality-based harassment. As an

in-house employment attorney for a Fortune 50 company. 1
happen lo have some familiarity with these policies and their
enforcement. Thus, Tcan say with some degree of confidence,
that in most employment settings the perpetrators of the on-
‘campus anti-gay bullying would be disciplined severely. if not
FIRED (it's not. by the way. 2 good time to be unemployed
in America).

In short, intimidating people based on their perceived
sexual orientation just won't fly in most civitized situations
off-campus. Alumni, gay and straight alike. from across
North Carolina, as well as from Atlanta, Washinglon, D.C.
New York. Chicago, Los Angeles and even Toronto find
the possibility of its being condoned on our alma mater's
‘treasured campus inconcievable. And if off-campus
involvement or leadership is needed to repudiate and redress
anti-gay bullying on campus. then the on-campus community
should take notice that a critical mass of motivated alumni
ready to shoulder that responsibility.

Peter M. Varney ‘96
Co-founder of the Gay-Straight
Alumni Network

How to move beyond homphobia at Davidson

It's time for the administration 10 promote a cultural
change at Davidson that guarantees the safety and respect
of each student - regardless of her/his race, gender, sexual
‘orientation of any other dimension of diversity. As @ gay
alumnus who didn't come out during college, I'd Tike to
offer ewo suggestions: school leadership needs to support the
GSA’s Safe Space initiative and also promote LGBT alumai
involvement in student life.

President Ross and Dean Shandley need to publicly
‘endorse the GSA’s Safe Space initiative to show the school’s
commitment to change. The program will ain school
leaders to create LGBT-friendly environments‘in social and
academic settings. I's particularly important to reach out te
first year students during orientation (0 allow gay students
to identify allics and initiate meaningful dialogue among the
student body.

Gay Davidson students need to connect with others
‘who have had similar experiences through the Gay-Straight
Alumni Network of Davidson (GSAND). By inviting LGBT
alumi to participate in the Safe Space program. Career
Services events and other educatianal opportunities. the

administration can help foster these relationships.

The night before my college graduation I was singled out
at a fratemity party and called a “fing”. It was a tough Way 10
end my college career at a place that Ioved. The next day [
teceived my diploma and walked away without ever sharing
who I really was with my friends and family. Let's do what
is right for the entire Davidson community 16 ensure that 10
students are silenced by homophobia.

Lee Crook Bruner ‘04

The Davidsonian welcomes letters
to the editor. Please e-mail submis- °

sions of fewer than 250 words to

davidsonlan@davidson.edu. We
reserve the right to edit for col
brevity and grammar. Anonyma
letters will not be printed. @

Vote early, but mind these hurdles

Guest Writer

One-Stop, No-Excuse Barly Voting is open. It's also not
far away—the Comelius Town Library is down Main Street,
right on W Catawba Avenue, on the right, Ie takes about five
minutes by car, or two-miles to walk, but there’s a few quick
things you should know before you go.

Voter registration fraud has been all over the news
Jately—and not all of it is perpetrated by people just trying
to get a bit of extra cash by submitting fictitious. names and
leaving ACORN in a bind. Some of it may be caused by
partisan leanings. The Republican pasty is behind in some
key polls. While the average Republican may be outraged
by the very idea of this. some of them are doing whatever
it takes to secure a Republican victory—even if that means
making it harder for Democrats. or groups with likely Obama
Jeanings like college students, to vole. Some of these cases,
have been well publicized, but others are likely flying under
the radar.

What's really going to be vital for Davidson students
right now. though. is what's going on in their own state. I've
been told it's illegal for polling workers to require students
to present proof of registration bor that doesn’t mean it’s not
happening. This is an issue thal may be dealt with in coun.
But we shouldn't let a few extra steps keep us from voting!

So if yout want to vote early. and you're not from North
Carolina but still want to vole here, just make sure you
have a few things with you before you head over 16 the
Cornelius Library. The first is your CatCard, This shouldn't
bbe & problem. siace you'll need it to get back into your dorm,
when you're done. The second: proof of enrollment. Takes

three minutes or less to get. I promise. Head to the registrar’s
office (for freshmen, it’s down main hallway on the first loor
of Chambers, towards the Concord Rd, side) and fll out a
lovely litte yellow form. Then come back later that day or
the next and pick up your proof of registration. Most of us
have at least one class in Chambers, 50 this really shouldn't
lake much time at all, Just swing by after class

We're being made non-persons by not
being permitied to vote—so go vote!

Once you've got those two things, you should be ready
to go. Some of you will have recently filled out forms (0
register. The board of elections seems to be swamped with
new registrants and is a little behind schedule. From what
Tonderstand, if you've got your CatCard and your proof of
enrollment. you should be able to register there. If not, please
try again when they tell you to—don' fil out the provisional
ballot unless you absolutely have to! Chances are it’s not
going to count,

Tknow it may be annoying to have (© jump through so
many hoops just to exercise your voting right. I went down
to the polls on Thursday wary of such roadblocks and waited
in line fifteen minutes just (0 find this stuff ou. But we are
Americans, born and bred 10 be free. If you were, are or would
like to be proud of America, [ don’t care who you're voting
for, Just do whatever it takes to make your vote count! We're
being made non-persons by not being permitted to vote—so
go voie! Get a form!

Laura Shiltingburg ‘09 is a theatre major from Atlanta,
Ga, Camtact her at lashiltinghurg @davidson.eda.
