Lae

IVIN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
AprIL 30, 2008

4

Student art show excellent, poorly judged

By SARAH BETH KEYSER
Staff Writer

My only prior experience with Davidson’s
Visual Arts Center has been acting as a hand
model for my roommate’s sculpture project,
which involved sticking my hands in a huge
container of dubious white goop. I wasn’t

Kelly ’08 which consisted of a white tutu
which zipped toward the ceiling and then
gracefully fell toward the floor in a rush of
tulle. However, people soon began to wan-
der in, including Associate Professor of Art
Cort Savage, who affably began to greet vis-
itors. The doors to the small exhibit rooms
were opened, and by the end of the evening,
it was difficult to get a close look at a paint-

Grant Clark’s “Edamame” is constructed of dozens of pieces of scrap metal

sure what to expect from the Student Art
Exhibition opening last Thursday. The scene
did not look too promising as I wandered
into the largely empty atrium. The DJ was
Jate and the only sign of movement was a
kinetic sculpture, “Untitled,” by Maddy

ing because of the crowd.

The great variety of artwork both in terms
of theme and materials was incredible.
Perhaps because of looming end of semester
deadlines, I saw several works that reminded
me of my current stress level, such as

“Trapped Interior #3” by Tarlton Long ’08,
which featured a rather tortured looking soul
framed by the words “get me out.” Or a lith-
ograph and chine coltlé work by Mark Currin
’08 entitled “I Don’t Care,” featuring an
Oregon Trail theme inscribed with, “I don’t
care if Johnny has a broken arm, if Sarah has
typhoid fever, if all of my oxen are dead, and
if I just got bitten by a rattlesnake. You bet
your wagon I want to hunt again.” Looking
at these expressions of both desperation and
perseverance I realized that even the way in
which I interpret art has not escaped
unscathed from the stress of impending
finals. ;

I was also amused by the playfulness of
some of my fellow Davidson students.
Emily Miller ’10 created a mischievous ren-
dition of the cartoon character Gumby enti-
tled “Gumby’s Smile.” The rich blue and
green hues of Gumby smiling at his reflec-
tion were endearing and artful all at once.
Another entertaining work was an oil on can-
vas painting by Katharine Phiegar ’08 aptly
named “Blue Moon” which captured a love-
ly female bottom in aqua colors.

It seems our students are skillful with
sculptures as well; Grant Clark ’10 created
an imposing work entitled “Edamame,”
which he claimed was inspired by soybeans.
It was constructed of hundreds of pieces of
scrap metal, wood and dozens of boxes of
sugar cubes. It took Grant around five weeks
to complete, which isn’t hard to imagine
considering how much time went into weld-
ing together spheres of metal made of serap
pieces and gluing the dozens of rows of care-
fully aligned sugar cubes.

Bill Fick of Duke University and
Cockeyed Press served as guest juror for this
year’s art exhibition, and three students won
cash prizes for their artwork. The first place

award and a cash prize of $500 went to jun-
ior Ambrice Miller’s graphite sketch
“Untitled,” of a rather rotund figure with
multiple versions of a face above his mid-

Second - prize winning sculpture

section. One viewer remarked that it remind-
ed them of a sufferer of multiple personality
disorder. While I thought all of this year’s
winners were great, I found fault with the
judging process. With such a diverse range
of artwork and so many excellent pieces, I
feel like it should have at the very least been
a vote on which pieces were awarded prizes.
However, congratulations to all the winners,
as well as to all the students whose pieces
were selected for this year’s art exhibition,
which proved to be a thought-provoking
experience for all in attendance.

Student artists prepare for Davidson Creates

By JENNIFER GAMBRELL
Staff Writer

Over a year ago, a group of student artists
gathered for lunch on a day like any other.
During this habitual occurrence, the light-
hearted conversation eventually led to the
arts at Davidson, and the group unanimously
agreed that they wanted to improve and
spread the presence of the arts on campus.
After the group asked the obvious question
of “What is the best way to go about this
task?” the solution came almost instantly —
an arts festival to celebrate the variety of
artistic outlets represented in the community.

And so “Davidson Creates” was born.
Over the summer, an arts organizational
board President formed, headed by Darryl
Ratcliff ’0& Vice President Cody Elder ’08.
Other members include Andrew Waddell
’08, Martelle Esposito 08, Melissa Gilkey
’09, Harper Addison ’08, David McClay ’08,
Eric Morel °09 and Thomas Christy ’10.
Each member heads one of several commit-
tees: Visual Arts, Music, Dance, Theater,
Creative Writing and Film.

After the initial formation, the group sent
emails to on-campus artists, asking for those
who might be interested in. participating in a
festival during the upcoming school year.
Overall, artists’ responses were impressive,
totalling over 100. With such a positive
beginning, committees began to form and
the e-mails continued to fly.

With the start of the 2007-2008 school
year, the committees decided to hold
Davidson’s first arts show in over 40 years
this spring. This weekend, starting May 2,
students and the surrounding community

|

will have the opportunity to see what has
grown from a quaint lunchroom idea into a
magnificent project.

Davidson Creates kicks off with its open-
ing parade on Friday, May 5 at 5 p.m. To
help celebrate, the student body is invited to
gather on Chambers lawn. The parade will
weave its colorful way throughout the vari-
ous traveling dance exhibitions.

Along with this theme, a song and dance
workshop will also be offered at this time in
Baker Sports Complex. The workshop will
cost $15 and focuses on an Afro-Cuban
dance style known as Orisha. Beginners are

a

Students and guests will have the opportunity-to learn Orisha at a dance workshop

encouraged to attend.

The rest of Friday’s events take place in
the Union. While an opening reception will
offer a chance to chat with artists and enjoy
refreshments, the Lake Norman Jugglers
have planned a demonstration and instruc-
tional workshop. Those up for the challenge
should try their hand at some of the group’s
amazing juggling techniques.

Two big events will close the first day of
the festival. First, Duke Family Performance
Hall will host the Davidson College
Symphony Orchestra. Directed entirely by
student conductors, the concert will feature a

repertoire of classical selections. To con-
clude the day, a fashion show will be hoste-
din the 900 Room as students model clothes
from Avaliliy’s, Monkees, Goodwill, Student
Designs and the environmentally conscious
clothes from Bittersweet Design House.
Look for a section on “What Not to Wear”
for some big laughs.

On Saturday, the Arts continue with anoth-
er full day of events, of which all will take
place in the Union. Throughout the day, vis-
itors are welcome to explore the “Pieces of
Peace” art exhibition, view student films at
the film festival, learn about artists’ tech-
niques at an art workshop and listen to stu-
dent musicians performing.

Though the day offers an abundance of
creative happenings, highlights include a
performance by the hilarious student
improvisational comedy group Oops at 1
p.m. and Davidson’s fifth annual Battle of
the Bands. This musical throw-down starts at
9 p.m. in the Union Atrium and will go on
into the late hours of the night. Prepare to see
student bands compete for bragging rights,
fame and fortune.

Much and effort has gone into planning
what is sure to be a memorable and enlight-
ening celebration of the Arts at Davidson.
President Darry] Ratcliff said, “We tltimate-
ly want to provide leadership for the arts
here, to give students the opportunity to pur-
sue outside contacts in the art world...inter-
action breeds communication and allows for
the arts to flourish.” .

As a result of the festival, student art lead-
ers have been provided with an outlet to
present their creative media in a unique and
highly imaginative way.
