12

Tyler Lemons ’10 celebrates a big play by the Wildcat
defense in Saturday’s 38-35 victory over Jacksonville.

Ray Francis
Staff Writer

Ben Behrendt ’11 kicked a 23-yard field goal with 42.5
seconds left to lift Davidson to a 38-35 come-from-behind
victory over Jacksonville on Homecoming. “s

Behrendt’s kick capped a string of 24 unanswered points
for the Wildcats to end the game and rally from a 35-14 third
quarter deficit. The clutch kick earned, him Pioneer Football
League Special Teams Player of the Week.

“I knew I had a good snapper and a good holder, so I was
confident,” Behrendt said after the game.

Ryan Alexander ’09 threw for 230 yards and three touch-
downs on 10-23 passing. Chad Barnes ’09 rushed for 97
yards on 18 carries while Kenny Mantuo 711 added 23 yards
and two touchdowns. Myles Potter ’09 led the Wildcats re-
ceiving corps with three catches for 93 yards, including an
80-yard touchdown reception that began the rally.

The Wildcat defense was led by Tyler Lemons ’10 who
recorded 11 tackles and a forced fumble. Brandon Giles ’09
added an interception and 44-yard return to set up a third
quarter touchdown.

“We really took it as an insult that we were getting beaten
so badly at home in front of so many fans,” Lemons said.
“We said before the game that our family had come in to
town [for Homecoming], so it was really a matter of David-
son pride.”

Davidson seized an early 7-0 lead on Mantuo’s one-yard

THE DAvViDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
OcToBeER 1, 2008

dive after Elliot Campbell ’11 recovered a Jacksonville fum-
ble on the opening kickoff. However, the Dolphins seized the
momentum after that, taking a 21-7 lead into halftime after
two Josh McGregor touchdown passes.

The Wildcats scored on a 37-yard screen pass to Justin
Williams ’11 after receiving the second half kickoff to pull
within one touchdown. They proved unable to sustain this
momentum as Rudell Small scored two touchdowns for
Jacksonville, the first after an Alexander interception. This
gave the Dolphins a 35-14 Jead with 4:29 to play in the game.
Small finished with 217 yards on 33 carries and three touch-
downs.

At this point, Wildcat coach Tripp Merritt rallied the
team.

“When we were behind I told them, ‘Don’t look at the
scoreboard, just keep playing,” he said.

Alexander grabbed the momentum back for the Wildcats
on the next play from scrimmage, sidestepping the Dolphin
rush and firing an 80-yard strike to Potter for a touchdown.
Giles’ interception return set up Mantuo’s second 1-yard
touchdown and made the score 35-28 at the end of the third.

After forcing a Dolphin punt, Alexander again torched
the Dolphin secondary, this time for a 55-yard completion to
Andrew Aldrich ’10. This play set up Alexander’s three-yard
screen pass to Kirk Konert ’09 that tied the game with 12:03
to play.

See Football, page 11

Hello Southern Conference, hello win column

JOHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

After streaking five games without a win, the women’s
soccer team needed an energy boost to jumpstart the confer-
ence schedule. The ’Cats finally found their vibe last week-
end, sweeping back-to-back games against Furman and Wof-
ford.

On achilly, windy evening last Thursday, the team opened
up the conference schedule against the Furman Paladins, last
year’s SoCon champions. The squad from Greenville, boast-
ing a 6-2-1 record, jolted the Wildcats awake with the open-
ing goal in the 16" minute.

Once the slumping Davidson team awoke, the players re-
sponded with vengeance. Just over ten minutes later, Stepha-
nie Gerow ’12 ignited the offensive machine by scoring the
tying goal, unassisted. Following a few deflected shots by the
Furman keeper, Gerow notched the header into the top corner
of the net for her third goal of the year.

The Paladins would tip the scales again in the 39° minute
to regain the lead, only to face a rejuvenated scoring front
from Davidson. After scoring only two goals in the previous
three games, the "Cats matched that total in one match, just
three minutes after Furman’s second strike.

Amanda Flink ’11 connected on Davidson’s second head-
er score, redirecting an arching free kick from Melanie Smith
’09 to tie the game. It was the first goal of the season for
defender Flink.

The visiting Wildcats weren’t through yet. Their relent-
less 12-shot barrage in the first half carried over into the open-
ing minutes of the second, as Kyri Bye-Nagel ’10 popped a
looping cross into the bottom corner of the box. The Paladin
keeper collided straight into Bye-Nagel, and in the ensuing
chaos, Lauren Connor ’09 knocked in the go-ahead goal.

The final 40 minutes of the game witnessed a defensive

Lauren Connor “10
WOMEN’S SOCCER
MECHANICSBURG, PENNSYLVANIA

struggle between the two teams, a contrast to the ot half’s
scoring display.

Both squads managed only four shots, none of which
sailed on target from the Paladins. For a Davidson team that
had struggled to capitalize on offensive opportunities, the 3-2
win came as both blessing and relief.

Three days and a slew of homecoming festivities later,
the ’Cats returned to South Carolina to play Wofford in Spar-
tanburg.

Jessie Baxa ’12 started her second collegiate game in a
row, and in typical Davidson fashion, the defense settled into
a war Of attrition. It was a stark contrast to the Furman game,
but it showcased the multi-faceted strengths of the Davidson
squad.

Holding the Wofford team to only five shots, two saved
by Baxa, the defense solidified the line as the offense made
repeated attacks on the home team. As Smith, Flink, Chloe
King 10, and Courtney Hart ‘10 facilitated opportunities
from the back, Katharine Laco ‘10 rocketed a pair of shots in
the opening minutes.

While Laco was not destined to score that afternoon, she
took home a point just the same. Streaking down the sideline,
she ripped a cross to Tracy McCausland ’09 in the 31 min-
ute. McCausland grabbed the pass in the box and chipped in
an arching goal to break the stalemate.

But again, the defenses on both sides clamped down on
any future offensive assaults. Though Wofford outshot the
Wildcats 5-4 in the second half, after not taking a single at-
tempt in the first, neither side could come up with the game’s
second goal.

Fortunately for the ’Cats, they scored the first, notching
their second conference victory and their second shutout of
the season. The 2-0-0 record is exactly what the doctor or-

See Soccer, page 11

photo bv Aaron Roh. Fo

Tracy McCausland ’09 scored the game-winning goal
in the ’Cats 1-0 SoCon win over Wofford on Sunday.

ory ee

PLAY OF THE WEEK

Defense forces fumble to setup
Behrendt’s:game-winning FG

The junior defensive midfielder continued to show her
affinity for clutch goals this week as she netted her
fifth-career game-winning goal in Thursday’s road win
over defending Socon champ Furman. The goal was
Connor’s second of the season.

With the scored tied 35-35 late in the fourth quarter, Ty-
ler Lemons “10 forced a fumble which was recovered by
Brandon Sykes ‘11 setting up Ben Behrendt’s ‘11 go-ahead

24-yard field goal with 42 seconds remaining in the ‘Cats

38-35 comeback win. Behrendt’s clutch kick earned him
PFL Special Teams Player of the Week honors.

