10 THe DaviIDSsONIAN

SPORTS

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2008

Message to the Big Boys: Play Road Games! °Cats pinned in season

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Each year, March rolls around and we hear the same argu-
ments. Who did you play? Who belongs in the NCAA Tour-
nament? Who deserves the NIT? Which team got jobbed
by the committee? Selection Sunday has become a sort of
national holiday, and the pundits love to argue and push for-
ward their relative agendas. All of the aforementioned ques-
tions are legitimate, but we need to add one more: where did
you play?

College Basketball analyst Jay Bilas has long harped on
his “given day” theory. He suggests that, because the NCAA
Tourney is an opportunity to compete for the national cham-
pionship, teams must have proven that they can beat other
top teams in order to deserve an at-large bid. On the surface,
it’s a sound theory. Digging deeper, though, we find an enor-
mous flaw.

Because of the power structure of college basketball, ma-
jor conference teams rarely play nonconference games on the
road. Some do better than others, but most trust the fact that
their schedule will get enough of a boost by having to play
teams in their conference.

Let’s briefly examine the situation, using this season’s
Davidson team, ranked no. 20 in the preseason polls, as our
example. Davidson plays an exceptional nonconference
schedule, with games against Purdue, Duke, N.C. State, and
Oklahoma on the docket. The locations for those games: In-
dianapolis, Durham, Charlotte, and Norman. How many of
the major games will be played in Belk Arena? Zero.

Taken further, the last team from a major conference to
grace Belk Arena with its illustrious presence? That would
be Quin Snyder’s Missouri Tigers in December, 2005. Those
of us lucky enough to be at that game watched the Cats grab
an early twenty-point lead and cruise to an 82-73 win. Re-
member, folks, while the "Cats were very experienced and
good that season, that was before Stephen Curry ‘10 and the
current group made Davidson lifers remember the glory years
under Lefty Driesell.

Back then, Davidson was your typical mid-major pro-
gram. And a talented group of Tigers left Belk Arena with
their tails between their legs.

So who have been the worst culprits? Well, having fa-
milial connections at Duke, I am often subjected to that ar-

gument. Allow me to first say this: I give Duke tremendous
credit for playing good mid-majors every season. Duke has
continued its series with Davidson even as the ’Cats have ris-
en to prominence, and for that I give Coach K due respect.

But we need to examine some other facts as well. In the
2006-2007 and 2007-2008 seasons combined, Duke played
a total of one true road game (on its opponent’s home floor
— not home city) in its nonconference slate. Yep, one. That
game? At St. John’s in Madison Square Garden. Having
watched Duke play in the Garden, trust me when I say they
had a fairly solid contingent at that game.

Duke’s results in the past two NCAA tournaments speak
for themselves. Despite having been the better seed in each
game, the Blue Devils have gone 1-2, with unimpressive
losses against VCU and West Virginia.

I like Coach K and the way that Duke plays. I respect
their hustle, intensity, and the fact that they seem to show up
well-prepared for each game. Their schedules in the noncon-
ference have set them up for those failures, though. I will
admit that Duke has vastly improved this season, with road
games at Purdue and Michigan headlining their schedule.

Other culprits have included UNC, Syracuse, and UConn,
among many others.

So why the fear of the early loss? What does Duke lose
by travelling to Belk Arena and dropping a game to David-
son? I would argue very little. Assuming they are as good
as advertised, Duke still would receive a high seed in the
NCAA Tournament. Last I checked, a team still had to win
six straight games against solid competition to capture a Na-
tional Championship. Forgive me if I fail to see the logic in
a nonconference slate full.of home games.

With so few road games, a team likes Syracuse shows
up as the higher seed at an NCAA site, has the crowd turn
against it in a close game against a team of shooters that plays
together, and it does not know how to react. Jim Boeheim’s
teams are accustomed to playing at UConn and Georgetown.
But playing in an unfamiliar site against a team they know
little about? Not so much.

Major teams should play true road games in the noncon-
ference, even if it means a loss. It also gives us a better idea
of what the little guys can do playing a fair slate. Less con-
troversy? Maybe, maybe not. But I’m sure plenty of people
would love to see Duke play in Belk. Unfortunately, that’s a
sight we’ll never see.

Volleyball falls at home in season finale

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Wildcats’ volleyball team finished its regular season
of play after two home matches on Friday and Sunday. On
Friday night, the "Cats hosted the Wofford Terriers, losing
3-0 (25-17, 25-21, 25-23).

Kittery Neale ’09 was a strong asset for the Davidson of-
fense with 9 kills. Both Madison Benedict 712 and Jorden
Benedict ’11 had six kills for the "Cats while setter Hayley
Lawson ’11 had 26 assists.

For the Davidson defense, Neale had six digs and Jenni-
fer Chamblee ’11 had 16. The ’Cats continued their weekend
play with a Sunday decision against the Furman Paladins.
The ’Cats lost in three sets, 3-0 (25-19, 25-21, 25-14) in the
senior recognition match.

A pre-game ceremony was held, honoring the teams’ six
retiring seniors: Brittany Narr ’09, Alison Dwyer ’09, Tier-
ney Hodge ’09, Lindsey Paroczai ’09, Megan Parks ’09, and
Neale. For the ’Cats, Neale led the way with seven kills and
three blocks while Lawson tallied 24 assists. Christine Per-
zinski ’12 led the defense with 10 digs.

After the weekend’s play, the ’Cats earned a spot as the

et

Football Swimming/Diving
(3-7, 2-5)
Results
Results: Off
11/15 vs. Marist L 19-24
Next Up:
Next Up: 11/21-11/23 Davidson College
11/22 vs. Butler Invitational

Notes: The team looks to end
the season on a high note as
they host the Butler Bulldogs
in the season finale. Four-year
Starter and record-setting quar-
terback Ryan Alexander ’09 will
be starting his final game under
center for the Wildcats.

Notes: After an off week,
the Wildcats host the David-
son College Invitational this

weekend.

Wildcat Roundu

fourth seed in the Southern Division for the conference tour-
nament. Davidson will take on No. 1 seeded Samford this
Friday at 12:30 p.m. at UNC-Greensboro.

&

E ME RED EON
The Wildcats hope to celeberate a win over Samford
on Friday in the first round of the SoCon Tournament.

Men’s Basketball Women’s Basketball
#21 (2-1, 0-0) (1-1, 0-0)
Results: Results

11/14 vs. Guilford W 107-83
11/17 vs. JMU W 99-64
11/18 vs. #12/14 OU L 82-78

11/15 @ Winthrop W 61-40
11/16 vs. Ole Miss L 50-55

Next Up:
11/22 @ Towson
11/24 @ South Carolina

Next Up:
11/21 vs. Winthrop
11/24 vs. TBA

11/25 vs. TBA Notes: Mercedes Robinson ’09
and Alex Thompson ’10 were
named to the All-Tournament
Team of the Winthrop Hilton

Garden Hill Classic.

Notes: Stephen Curry ’10 was
named SoCon Player of the
Week for the ninth time in his
career.

opener at Chattanooga

jas tet

nig

Sam O’Hair 09 posted the Wildcats’ lone win against -
-Newberry in their season openers at Chattanooga.

Kris HENDERSHOT
Staff Writer

The Davidson men’s wrestling team led by head coach
Bob Patnesky and assistant coaches Joe Privitere and Julio
Arce faced Southern Conference opponent The University
of Tennessee at Chattanooga and non-conference opponent
Newberry in a tri-meet on November 8". The ’Cats lost to
Chattanooga 46-0 and also fell to Newberry 39-4 in Chat-
tanooga, Tennessee.

The match against Chattanooga was particularly difficult
as Davidson couldn’tgain any momentum. Sam O’Hair ’09
wrestled a great match at the 184 pound weight class with a
close 6-3 defeat. O’ Hair performed well against Tyler Rober-
son of Chattanooga.

In the heavy weight bout, Charlie Wolff ’11 was defeated
in a very close 3-1 contest. Wolff and O’Hair were very close
to notching a victory in the meet but just fell just short.

It was difficult for the Wildcats to face a conference op-
ponent in their first meet of the season. Davidson will look
to build off of some of the positive matches and turn those
points into victories.

The second match of the tri-meet was against Newberry
College, a member of Division II. The match got off to a
rough start with Newberry collecting pins in the first two
weight classes, 125 and 133.

In the 165 pound bout, Tyler Mullen ’12 came very close
to his first victory of the season with a 9-7 loss. The bout gave
the Wildcats a little of momentum and confidence.

O’Hair came away with his first victory of the season,
10-2. The victory gave Davidson their lone four points. How-
ever, Davidson showed a lot of heart as they never gave up
and definitely have positives to improve upon.

The final result of the tri-meet was Chattanooga’s defeat
of Newberry 24-16. Newberry proved to be a very tough Di-
vision II team for both SoCon members. After the disappoint-
ing results, the team looked to recover at home.

Last Saturday, Davidson hosted a quad-meet against
Duke University, The State University of New York at Buf-
falo, and Campbell University. Results were unavailable as
of Tuesday.

Wrestling Volleyball
(0-2, 0-1) (12-19, 7-11)
Results: Results
11/15 vs. Duke 11/14 vs. Wofford L 0-3
11/15 vs. Campbell 11/16 vs. Furman L0-3
11/15 vs. Buffalo
Next Up:
Next Up: 11/21-11/23 SoCon Tournament
11/23 Keystone Classic (Greensboro, N.C.)

(Philadelphia, P.A.) . 1st Round vs. Samford
Notes:
The team looks to get back on
track as it travels north for the
Keystone Classic.

Notes: The Wildcats earned
the final seed in the weekend’s
SoCon Tournament and open
tourney play against top-seeded
Samford in Greensboro.

