THE DAVIDSONIAN

—

“men’s: feam a plajed UNC-Chapel Hill and Duke this fall,
Lace the band travels to post-season conte: ts, Like

‘athletic department. website, ‘as. ell as the: fist of musical.
‘ensembles on the music webpage yields no information. A
broader: college-wide. search of “Davidson College: Pep:
Band”. also does not. _ lead to > any information ¢ about th
band. _ S é ae
The DCPB does n not receive e sufficient compensation fo
_its commitment to Davidson athletics. For starters, the band_
does not have matching uniforms. Most other schools pro-.
_vide. this. for their Pep Band..The athletics departmen'
‘promised new, matching shirts for the band at the begin
hing of the academie year, to be delivered by the second
men’s home game in January 2008 (Jan. 5, against Western.
Carolina). More than six. weeks have passed. since that date,
and there is still no sign of shirts. The band currently wears.
the “Big Game Tonight” shirts‘ from last year, which not
everyone has. For the TV games, :the band is told to wear
matching shirts and black K pants, or they will not make j iton,
The men’s ‘and v women’s . basketball teams obviously get
uniforms. through the school, because they are the ones~
actually playing the sport. The cheerleaders, who rally the:
crowd and provide support for the teams, get uniforms
through the school. Why should the © PP Band be treated
ay differently ?. «
=e Ideally, the Pep | Band should consist entirely of college
“students, Currently, this is not the case;-many high school
kids fill the seats. Davidson, however, can help to fix this.:
One option would be to give a graduation credit, such as a:
team credit and/or a lifetime credit, to college students for,
their commitment to the games.
Another option would be to pay Pep Band members if
“consisted of only college students. Dr. Bill Lawing of the:
music department said, “funding is entirely possible if.
there is also a way to also be confident that it is going to
Play with a consistent group appearing at games.”. S
_.#-third option would be to include Pep Band as 5 partici”
pation i in a musical ensemble, like the Symphony Orchestra.
or the Concert Choir. None of these are happening.”
According to Josiah Rich °08, saxophonist for the band,
P ere’s no incentive to playTrombonist Matt Surdel?10.,
“agrees: More people would do it if it was for credit
on"t get anything for Pep Band.’
_The catch-22, then, is. fairly, obyious.’The school wants
d. represent the colle

‘At the very least, the college should include a page dediea
‘ed to the Pep Band on “the: athletics. ‘department, webpage
“There might be a prospective, ‘student whose decision ‘
‘attend Davidson might be influenced information e
she receives about the Pep Band...

njan Mukherjee 409° isa ‘Music major from. Chevy
Chase, Md. foniact him at ¢ anmukherjee@ davidson. ¢ e

PERSPECTIVES

Kosovo's parliament unani-
mously declared its independence
from Serbia last Sunday.
International opinion, however,
was far from united. Though most
Western nations have made com-
mitments to recognizing any inde-
pendence claim, Russia and its
allies have vehemently objected.
Far from unexpected, Kosovar
independence adds yet another
loop to an already impenetrable
Gordian knot extending far beyond
+ the Balkans.

Kesovo's history as an influen-
tial and often explosive part of the Balkans dates back to the
Middle Ages, when in the 14th century, the Slavs defeated
the Ottomans. To many Serbs, Kosovo is the birthplace of the
Slavic nation. Persistent Ottoman influence and domination,
however, separated Kosovo from its Serbian forbears in both
religion and ethnicity. While most of Kosovo's population is
ethnic Albanian and Muslim, it still hosts a sizable Serbian
minority. Since then, Kosovo and Serbia have had an uncom-
fortable relationship, to say the least.

More recently, Kosovo has served as a flashpoint in the
bloody wars of Yugoslav dismemberment. On the heels of the
disastrous conflict in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Slobodan
Milosevic's forces cracked down on political dissidents call-
ing for independence in Kosovo in 1999. As a result, around
10,000 ethnic Albanians lost their lives and 300,000 were
driven from their homes. In quick response to accusations of
ethnic cleansing, the United States spearheaded a North

the welcome matt

Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) bombing effort to

expel Serbian troops and return Kosovar refugees.
Kosovo has become a chess piece
in a reemerging East-West power
struggle.

In gratitude to U.S. and NATO forces, Kosovo named the
capital Pristina'’s main street Bill Clinton Avenue. Pro-
American sentiment still runs high. Operation Allied Force,
however, only sharpened the lines of political conflict.
Russia and China accused the U.S. of exaggerating prewar
massacre claims and of violating the U.N. Charter in bomb-
ing dual-use targets in Serbia. Kosovo has become a chess
piece in-a reemerging East-West power struggle.

Since then, Kosovo has been in limbo. A U.N. peacekeep-
ing force is on the ground to protect civilians from violent
attack, yet danger remains. In the northern Serbian enclaves,
ethnic Serbs have experienced revenge attacks at the hands of
bereaved Kosovars. As the United Nations, European Union
and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 20, 2008 9

Pep Band « eserves Kosovo independence may lead to standoff

(OSCE) have all moved in, Russia has cried foul.

Today's declaration brings the debate to an abrupt and
potentially dangerous climax. Russia and its allies claim con-
cern for the safety of Kosovo's Serbian minority, but really
present a broader issue. They argue that allowing Kosovo to
break away from Serbia presents a troubling precedent that
de facto states within Georgia, Cyprus, Sudan, Somalia and
Indonesia may elect to exercise.

To be sure, Russia's bluster is also
an attempt to reestablish itself as
a global power, but pushing this

new brand of brinksmanship is not

beneficial to U.S. foreign policy.

Accepting Kosovo's independence without an agreed-upon
legal framework knocks a giant hole into established interna-
tional law. Though Russia may eventually have to back down
on Kosovo, it can use this precedent to its advantage by aid-
ing pro-Russian independence movements in Transnistria,
South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Kosovar independence seems to
be just a localized issue and an understandable consequence
of Serbian atrocities during the 1990s. In fact, it is but anoth-
er domino falling in a new Great Game. Recognizing Kosovo
risks plunging the world closer to another Cold War.

Russia views recent NATO and OSCE expansion; “color”
revolutions in Ukraine, Georgia and Kyrgyzstan; Polish and
Estonian saber-rattling; and a proposed missile system in
Poland and the Czech Republic as provocations. In
response, it has resumed bomber flights in the Pacific and
North Atlantic and threatened to target major European
cities with intermediate-range missiles. To be sure, Russia's
bluster is also an attempt to reestablish itself as a global
power, but pushing this new brand of brinksmanship is not
beneficial to U.S. foreign policy.

This issue has immediate ramifications on the ground.
Already, mobs have begun violent protests targeted at the
U.S. Embassy and other international organizations in
Belgrade. Putin's words carry far beyond the Kremlin. When
he spoke of “new dividing lines and walls” in his 2007
speech at the Munich Conference, he expressed a tangible
fear among Russia, its allies and their people of Western
encroachment.

Without comprehensive UN recognition of Kosovo's sta-
tus, the European Union and United States will be seen as
pushing these walls even harder. Not only will unilateral
Kosovar independence set a precedent for secession, but it
will also back Russia further into a corner.

Matt Petit ’08 is a Political Science and Music major from
Seminole, Fla. Contact him at mapetit@davidson.edu

Socioeconomic diversity should be priority

KEvIN Cook
Guest Columnist

Diversity is a hot topic at Davidson College. However, as
is often the case, it is discussed in very narrow terminology.
In many cases, attempts to make Davidson a diverse place do
not go beyond ‘someone's skin color. The biggest push for
diversifying Davidson's student body has come in the form of
increasing the number of minority students. Many people
point out that minority students are underrepresented at
Davidson when compared to the general population.

Despite this fact, I would argue that Davidson has a larger
diversity problem: that of socioeconomic class.

Socioeconomic diversity may be a much larger issue here
at Davidson than racial diversity could ever be. According to
the U.S. Census Bureau, the average Caucasian-American
household earns about $42,000 annually. The average
African-American household earns $28,000 and the average
Hispanic household $32,000.

Can one really argue that two
people are different because they
have different skin colors, even
though they have come from the
same privileged background?

If one were to take a guess at the average household
income for a Davidson student, the number would be signif-
icantly higher. One only needs to look as far as the parking

lot to guess that our average income is far above the nation-
al average.

Increasing socioeconomic diversity should be priority
number one, even higher than that of racial diversity. What
good does racial diversity do for Davidson, if the diverse stu-
dents are theoretically coming from the same neighborhoods,
schools and churches? Can one really argue that two people
are different because they have different skin colors, even
though they have come from the same privileged back-
ground?

If anything, that mentality is shallow and patronizing to
minority students. Simply to assume that someone is radical-
ly different or would add a unique perspective to the college
community because their skin is a different color, or are a
“different race,” is not the kind of approach we should have
at Davidson.

Assuming someone will add a new perspective because
they look different is really no different than assuming some-
one is ignorant because they look different. It's the same
mentality, just on the opposite end of the spectrum.

Don't get me wrong, racial diversity on campus is a good
thing, but not because it makes us a more “diverse” place. It's
positive because it shows that we are moving closer toward
being colorblind. Hopefully, we can someday call ourselves
diverse on a level deeper than skin.

By increasing socioeconomic diversity, Davidson would
truly expand the number of unique perspectives on campus.
There would be a greater number of individuals who were
brought up in an atmosphere other than that of the upper-
middle class or wealthy. This kind of diversification would
change Davidson more drastically than just seeking out peo-
ple from the same background who just happen to have a dif-
ferent appearance.

Kevin Cook ’09 is a Biology and Political Science major
from Syracuse, N.Y. Contact him at kecook@davidson.edu.
