THE DAVIDSONIAN

The anti-war Lett loves t
_ declare that they ‘support. the,
troops, but not the war. So far.
that claim is unsubstantiated,
The city of Berkeley, Calif. is.
the latest entity to attempt this.
claim.: On Jan./29,: Berkeley’s”
city council passed a resolution.
stating “that the Marine recruit-.
ing office is not. welcome in our,
city, and if recruiters choose to.
stay, they do SO as uninvited and.

N

evith the Marine Corps recruiting station, and applaud resi-
dents and organizations as Code Pink, that may volunteer.
Foe spe passively or actively, by nonviolent means,’ the:

effect, Berkeley: has sent a clear message: they do not want!

and do not support the Marines, The Berkeley City Council”

reaffirmed this sentiment in its ‘declaration of support for

“Code Pink: The council granted-it-a sound permit and a
‘parking space directly 3 in front gf the Marine Recruitmen
Station. <>
Not only did Berkeley insult the Marines, they direct
favored the free speech rights of one group over another.
Pro-military groups. were: not. given a. parking space.
‘However, it is not’a shock that the anti-Mari e counci
would favor the anti-American Code Pink, %
‘Since the Marine Recruitment Office came to Berkeley,
Code Pink has been out front harassing anyone attempting _
to enter. They wear orange. prison jumpsuits, chain them-

selves to the office door, paint bloody handprints on the

‘window and. replace - the ’ word, . “Recruitment” with

“Assassination” ‘These: actions. are.
‘group headed by Medea Benjamin.

_ A supporter of Hugo Chavez and Fidel Castro, Benjamin
has repeatedly been arrested for interrupting speeches by”
the president and members of his Cabinet. After the city
council’s. decision, she declared, “We are the defenders 0
democracy, the upholders of the Constitution. If it weren’t
for people like the people of Berkeley, standing up for what
they believe, we’d be living under Hitler.” a

q y, it was the: blood and:
courage Of millions of U.S: sol
-diers that freed Europe and -
saved the world, not the people.

- Recruitment Office.

In reality, ‘it. was the blood and courage of millions of.
«5. soldiers that freed Europe and saved the world, not the
‘people. of Berkeley, chained. to a Marine Recruitment
Office. Most Americans love and support the Marines and.
thus were outraged at Berkeley’s blatant disrespect. Som
thought the Marines should pull out of Berkeley and USE,
their new Parris Island,
Tlike Sen. Jim DeMint’s proposal: deny all federal fund
“ing to Berkeley ($2.5 million). If the city of Berkeley ‘wish
es to insult the military, i i
country’ s tax dollars.

‘of the citizens of the rest of the country. Benjamin respond~ te
ed, iT hope they’ re not acting out of intimidation. Berkeley’
ds:a city of |} peace, -and.a recruiting station does not fit.
Berkeley's S: “values. 2h would agree. The: Marines—repre~
senting honor, courage and sacrifice—do not fit it Berkeley

Bobby DesPain ’I1 is andeclaréil Bort from St:
Contact him at bodespain@davidson.ed

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2008 9

Friends alleviate pressure of Davidson

PY, a We are the “O.C.” generation:
. a group of college students who
. spent many of their high school
days glued to TV, wondering how
a», it was possible for cute little
Marissa to go from’ preteen to
free-spirited lesbian to college-
: bound killer in three seasons.
That being said, we watch
* “kids” like Ryan, Seth, Marissa,
and Summer deal with their
grown-up problems in a fictional
world, yet we very rarely see
these kids handle the everyday
woes of the average college stu-

dent.

At Davidson as well as any other college across the coun-
try, students live with their heads quivering nervously above
the ever-rising sea of tests, papers, friends, family, meetings
and hanging out.

This annoying body of responsibility comes chock-full of
endless obligations and transitions leading us to question
how happy we truly are when overcommited. At what point
does being involved morph into drowning? And when is it
OK to cry uncle?

At Davidson as well as any other
college across the country, stu-
dents live with their heads quiver-
ing nervously above the ever-ris-
ing sea of tests, papers, friends,
family, meetings and hanging out.
Although college can truly be some of the best years of our

lives, it can also become a real buzz-kill at times. We’ve all
wished an untimely death upon “that kid” who asks about a

paper not due for two weeks and then takes a rough draft to
the professor in one of those sweet, clear paper folders.
We’ve all gotten back a test that was a surefire “A” and
become puzzled by the strange roundness of the letter staring
back from the first page. We’ve all felt angry, left out, stupid,
inferior (insert more demeaning adjectives that the average
Davidson student feels on an everyday basis) whether we like
to admit it or not.

The first few weeks of second semester offer some espe-
cially hard days for the average Davidsonian, both physical-
ly and mentally. During these first weeks, we traipse around
in freezing temperatures and dark skies and wish to go back
to the carefree days of the holiday break. We balance first
week meetings, first week classes and everyone’s favorite
“no-sleep-til-Brooklyn” weekend: self-selection. I think I
speak for the whole of existence when I say that during this
month, life can be exhausting and very few wait for you to
catch your breath.

But what about those who do wait for us? What about the
silver lining of the Davidson bubble—the ability to make
some of the closest friends you will ever have?

The friend who will buy you yogurt pretzels from the
union when your boyfriend is being a you-know-what, who
will click the little OK button to keep your fishbowl comput-
er from deleting your paper and who will help you come up
with Davidsonian article ideas when you’ve got less than
nada. In the immortal words of Ben Lee, we’re alli in this
together, and that’s what we have going for us in the daily
fight against mental breakdown at Davidson College. I know
I know, hey Assemble why don’t you go sit in a circle with
your friends and sing kum-ba-yah. Well, to that I’d say that
I'd love to, but my roommate took the guitar with her to Italy.
I do make a mean s’more though.

We put ourselves under a lot of strain here at Davidson,
and we must embrace methods to both acknowledge and
address it. We should never be ashamed to solicit help when
we need it—be it from friends, family or counselors.

Ashley Semble ’09 is a History major from Winston-Salem,
N.C. Contact her at assemble @davidson.edu

Petit’s defense of Iraq conflict wrong

STEPHEN KALIN
Guest Columnist

The current situation in Iraq is a complicated one, and rea-
sonable people can disagree about the merits of prolonging
the U.S. mission there or withdrawing troops in the near
future. In last week’s Davidsonian, Matt Petit warned that
withdrawal would threaten U.S. ability to intervene in other
international crises. His principal contention is that the
United States should remain in Iraq (indefinitely, it seems),
because military retreat from that country’s civil war would
cause the United States to adopt isolationist policies.

In making this claim, Petit seems to confuse cause with
effect. Military withdrawal from Iraq is not the cause but
merely a symptom of our nation’s cynicism about invading,
occupying and otherwise intervening in other countries’ pol-
itics.

The root cause of this new isolationist sentiment is not talk
about troop withdrawal or even the news of continued vio-
lence in Iraq; it is President Bush’s unjustified war of choice
and his administration’s miserable handling of the postwar
reconstruction.

Petit likens the current situation in Iraq to previous mili-
tary interventions in Vietnam and Somalia. His claim, how-
ever, that the outcry against these operations created an aver-
sion to intervention.is another false conclusion. American
foreign policy—not the public protest and demand for with-
drawal—must claim responsibility for the subsequent aver-
sion to military missions.

It is clear that the decision to use force to solve a political
problem has consequences beyond the immediate situation.
The U.S. government’s trigger-happy attitude over the past
40 years is one reason for the tragic failure of the United
States and other countries to intervene in international crises,
including the genocidal campaigns in Rwanda and
Guatemala. Like the little boy who cried wolf, the call to
arms by a government’s leaders loses its sense of urgency
when repeated without just cause.

The current situation is no different from the former ones
in Vietnam or Somalia: five years of bad planning and poor
policy, not the recent push for withdrawal, have turned the
American public off to the projection of U.S. military power.
Even worse, by committing our troops to an unnecessary war
in Iraq, President Bush has tied down men and money that
could be employed more effectively and righteously in places
like Afghanistan and the Sudan.

The only way the United States could even threaten to

intervene in an international emergency at this time is by
freeing up resources from Iraq.

Furthermore, Petit’s charge that U.S. withdrawal from Iraq
will discourage our allies from intervening in other crises
around the world is out of touch with reality. Most of the
members of the original “coalition of the willing” have
already left Iraq. At the end of last year, the United Kingdom
halved its troop levels to 2,500 at the same time that the
United States completed the scaling up of its troops under the
“surge” strategy.

Every U.S. casualty between now
and then constitutes a moral
transgression and weakens our
ability to pursue our obligations
as a world leader.

Meanwhile, France and other members of the European
Union have pledged several thousand peacekeeping troops to
a mission in Chad and the Central African Republic. Able
nations are not avoiding crises around the world because of
the imminent U.S. withdrawal from Iraq. They are attempt-
ing to intervene despite the failure of President Bush’s poor-
ly planned, preemptive and immoral war of choice.

Petit’s implication that the United States must continue
fighting wars in order to make and enforce peace is illogical.
It is unlikely that fighting will stop when U.S. troops leave
Iraq. However, it is clear that our current policy is unsustain-
able. With soldiers on their fourth and fifth rounds of duty, it
is only a matter of time before our military loses its ability to
conduct this or any other operation.

I’m not a pacifist or a libertarian. I don’t oppose all wars
or all interventions in other countries’ politics. To do so
would be to turn a blind eye to Hitler’s concentration camps
and to ignore Milosevic’s mass graves. But if we cannot rea-
sonably expect to leave Iraq a stable, peaceful country at the
time when we can no longer sustain our military commit-
ment, then we ought to leave as soon as possible.

Every U.S. casualty between now and then constitutes a
moral transgression and weakens our ability to pursue our
obligations as a world leader.

Stephen Kalin ’09 is a Political Science major from
Tappan, N.Y... Contact him at stkalin@davidson.edu.
