_ THE DAVIDSONIAN

NEws

er

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008 3
SOO een ee ee

Students share ‘Journey to Nicaragua’ with campus

By BIANCA MITCHELL
Staff Writer

“Take a journey with me and imagine for
just a second, a town with an old crumbling
concrete house. Jt is dark and lfoud and hot
and small children are crying. Mothers are
calling for their young ones to get off of the
street and into open housing because the
drug dealers are coming, they are high off of
sniffing glue.

“Carmen is standing with her child who,
has dysentery. Maybe they will get a piece of
cardboard to sleep on, maybe not. She and
the other girls in the crumbling shelter can’t
help but wonder to themselves if they will be
raped tonight.”

These are the words of Catherine Disanto
"10 as she described just one of the many
vivid scenes of poverty in Nicaragua.

On Feb, 29, Disanto and 13 other
Davidson students were led by College
Chaplain Rob Spach, Adjumct Catholic
Chaplain Karen Soos, and Julie Hill, an asso-
ciate pastor at Davidson College
Presbyterian Church, on an unforgettable
journey.

For 10 days, the group and leaders trav-
eled Nicaragua. As a part of the ‘reverse’
mission, they wished to do exactly the oppo-
site of what a normal mission trip entails.

The group hoped that through interaction
and listening, they would be able to lea
from the people of Nicaragua. They wished
that the people would assist them in their
search for Christ.

The team kept a communal journal
throughout the trip, and from this document
they shared their stories with the Davidson
community.

and new possibilities.

70 subjects

SUMMER TERM

This summer, discover a great city

* Launch your dream career with an internship
* Study and travel in China, France, or Spain

« Move ahead in your pre-med studies

* Learn one of eleven new languages

* Explore over 600 courses in more than

»
summer term ime tO

SHINE

David Baker °11 plays with Nicaraguan children at a local playground.

Sponsored by the Davidson College
Presbyterian Church and the chaplain’s
office, the trip had multiple facets. The stu-
dents were involved in a homestay, worship
services and trips called “accompaniments”.
The accompaniments involved the travel of
the group to a service organization so that
they could see firsthan what motivated the
workers.

Accompaniment trips went to five differ-
ent locales. The first trip involved a school

2008

SUMMER i
May 20-June 27

RECHHOSORRRHREOOES

SUMMER 2
June 30-August 8
LEARN MORE:
617-353-5124
www.bu.edu/summer

BOSTON

UNTVERSITY

called Los Caracolitos Preschool, which was
established to help children that don’t have
the proper Nicaraguan identity card required
to attend public schools.

The Asociacion Inhijambia was also a
stop. This non- profit organization helps victi
mized children who are in situations of risk.
Children and adolescents served here have
been subjected to drug abuse, physical abuse
and sexual exploitation.

With the prostitution laws in Nicaragua

allowing this act at the age of 14, many par-
ents prostitute their girls years prior to the
cut-off.

Other associations included the Tesis cen-
ter which works with youth in poverty to
provide artistic outlets; Cepad, which is a
Christian social interest association trying to
fight poverty in the area; and Parajito Azul
Home for the Disabled, home to over 100
disabled youth and adults.

Many of these disabled individuals were
abandoned in hospitals as infants when their
parents refused to spend money for treatment
and care.

The staff at the Parajito Azul works two
24-hour shifts a week, back-to-back in order
ti minimize travel costs. The staff at the
home provides 24-hour emotional care and
support to all patients.

DiSanto remarked that the accompani-
ments brought the group “one step closer to
realizing what service is.”

This realization became very clear to the
group in the city of Batahola Norte, where a
priest and nun had come together to build a
community center, grounded in hope, to
incite social change and bring the impover-
ished people together.

Kimberly Bunting ’10 spoke about the
enlightening homestay experience during
which the two groups voyaged to Samaluli.
The team split up into even smaller groups
to visit homes in order to experience the true
Nicaraguan lifestyle.

Bunting commented that the homestay
“was a lot of fun and gave me the chance to
feel like I was a part of their lives.” The city
girl took part in several tasks, including cow

see Nicaragua, page 4

| Engage for Change goes green

By ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

Next year, Engage for Change’s efforts
will focus on the theme of environmental
justice.

On Saturday, March 15, 45 students met
and decided on the 2008-2009 theme for
Engage for Change (EFC).

At the start of the meeting, the members,
under the guidance of Stacy Riemer, Dean of
Community Service, divided into six groups
to discuss theme ideas, each under the lead-
ership of a member of EFC’s planning team.

After a period of brainstorming, each
group presented three of its best ideas to the
entire gathering. Through discussion and
debate, these 18 ideas were reduced to two:
environmental justice and health care.

According to Nick Carney °11, a member
of the EFC Steering Committee, the two
ideas that remained “followed Engage for
Change’s standards of community action and
direct service.”

After a final discussion of the pros and
cons of each, the students voted for their top
choice, selecting environmental justice as
the EFC theme for the 2008-2009 year.

Carney stated that EFC decided on envi-
ronmental justice because it is a topic about
which the Davidson student body cares
deeply and is an issue in which students can
make a direct difference.

Carey described the theme as “the envi-
ronment with a mission.” Through this
theme, EFC hopes to promote humanitarian
issues such as helping people gain access to
food and clean water, while maintaining
environmental sensitivity in the pursuit of
these goals.

Davis Greene ’09, Current EFC Program
Coordinator, added that because of the wide-
spread support for environmental causes,
EFC seeks to support the environmental
movement rather than fragment it.

Most of the concrete plans of the theme

have not been finalized yet and will not be
until next fall.

Riemer, who coordinated the conference,
said that EFC wants input from all students,
including next year’s incoming freshman,
before deciding what specific projects to
pursue. In order to expose the Class of 2012
to next year’s theme early in the school year,
the theme of environmental justice will be
incorporated into the service walk during
orientation.

EFC already plans to work closely with
SGA and the Environmental Action
Committee, but its goal is to involve as many
students as possible, in order to make its
environmental goals for next year a campus-
wide movement.

This year’s EFC events on affordable and
attainable housing were sponsored by such
groups as the Junior Class of Bonner
Scholars, the Chidsey Leadership
Development Office, and the Chaplain’s
Office.

EFC hopes to continue and increase this
diverse commitment to its goals next year.

In September, EFC will hold a number of
town-hall style meetings to discuss issues
directly related to environmental justice, and
seek input from the student body. After these
meetings, EFC expects to finalize its plan for
the fall semester.

With this theme, EFC hopes to promote
and improve the health of the environment,
as well as the lives of the human beings who
depend on it.

EFC began a few years ago with students
interested in working together on one service
issue and continues to be student-driven.

EFC identifies itself as a movement, rather
than an organization, and encourages inter-
ested students to get involved, even if
they’ve never done anything with EFC
before.

Interested students should e-mail engage-
forchange@davidson.edu with how they
would like to contribute.
