THE DAVIDSONIAN

ARTS & LIVING WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008 7

Ask Audrey: Valentine’s Day divides student opinions

By AUDREY
Staff Writer

The month of February is the month of
love. This extends beyond love for a
boyfriend/girlfriend; I believe it is a time to
give love to all the meaningful people in your
life.

I have heard many different opinions of
Valentine’s Day, including the following:

From the radical anti-love folks: “I hate
Valentine’s Day! I am wearing all black and
not smiling once. Why is there a holiday for
people who are happy and in love? What
about all the people who are not?”

From those still stuck in a middle school
mentality: “I am giving out Spongebob
Squarepants Valentine’s cards to all my
friends! And I am carrying a bag of kisses all
day long so I can give kisses to everyone!”
Cute, but it also manages to hit my gag
reflex.

And finally, from those who have a mod-
est, yet slightly twisted mentality, one simi-
lar to my own: “TI am going out to dinner with
my best girlfriend at Kudzu, and I expect
flowers and dark chocolate Godiva truffles
from my parents. I can’t wait to get that e-
mail from the Information Desk saying they
have something for me!” Let me tell you that
any and all expectations for Valentine’s Day
will only make you share the views of opin-
ion #1.

You might recognize a. particular view-
point that is a bit more familiar to you than
the others. I appreciate the endless thought-
fulness of opinion #2, but it turns love into a
generic label deprived of all meaning.
Opinion #1 only makes me depressed, prob-
ably successfully accomplishing the sole

LINK

YOURSELF

This summer, link yourself into Georgetown’s
extraordinary academic community, the Washington, 0.C.,
power structure, and shopping areas, parks,
monuments, nightlife, and culture that will take you

Nonbusiness majors can gain an understanding of key
concepts in finance, marketing, management.
accounting, communications, strategic planning,
organizational behavior, information systems,

Take an advanced look at the legislative process
through coursework and get experience through an
inlernship in government or at a nonprofit organization.

goal of their horrible pessimism towards a
holiday celebrating L.O.V.E.

Sometimes we turn love into an expression
that does not possess all the care it deserves.
When I overhear the ends of conversations
concluding with, “Love ya gurl!” or “Love
ya babe!” I wonder if she really knows what
she is saying.

Because I am single, and probably will be
on Valentine’s Day as well, I look forward to
celebrating all the true love in my life among
great friends and family. Love is not some
generic term that can be thrown around. I am
sure many people in relationships know it is
a HUGE step to say “TI love you.”

For example, there are many Sex and the
City references that illustrate the meaning of
this small three letter phrase. Carrie cheated
on Aidan because Mr. Big finally said “T love
you” (along with other complicated reasons
too numerous to name). Those are some pret-
ty powerful words.

This is not to say that if your ex-boyfriend
says “I love you” that you should cheat on
your current boyfriend. We all know Carrie
had a pretty complicated relationship with
Big, and she ends up with him in Paris any-
way...so perhaps I can condone her risky
and complicated endeavors.

Nevertheless, love is a beautiful word that
deserves gentle care when you express your
feelings. Even if your schedule is jammed
packed on Thursday the 14th studying for an
Art History review on Friday, I would still
strongly recommend taking time out of your
day to let at least one person know how
much they mean to you.

Even though you have the opportunity to
tell someone how much you love them every
day, Valentine’s Day is a reminder to do
something special for someone else, without

all summer to explore.

Ce

Z

CHOOSE FROM OVER
3OO COURSES

Take courses that span

the intellectual spectrum —
including American studies,
ari, math, science, business,
public policy, languages.
international studies, theology.
gender studies, and more.

Fundamentals of Business:
Leadership in a Global Economy

and business law.

Public Affairs Internship and Seminar

ENROLL TODAY

any expectation of receiving something
back. From my past Valentine’s Day experi-
ences I learned that love should always be
given unconditionally and that means not
expecting something in return.

This is most definitely a hard task to
accomplish when we also want to receive an
abundance of love, but I believe that the
more love you freely and meaningfully give
to others, the more love will enter your life in
unbelievable and unexpected ways.

For all those opinion #1 folks, I apologize
if my optimism makes you vomit, but why
ee . 7

ee ey cnet

not try out this idea of free love? I am not
referring to the sixties. There is no need for a
sexual revolution on campus but what about
making time for an emotional revolution
when you take the time out of your busy
Davidson day to say, “I love you” and really
mean it.

Along with my question from last week,
here is another:

What is the best date you have experi-
enced? Or even better, What is the best
Valentine’s Day you ever had?

Rit?

Ra a J ne. oF hak mem
Hugo Wolf Quartet members take a break from practice.

Two weeks worth of fine arts

By JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

One of Davidson’s greatest assets, apart
from its commitment to academic excel-
lence, is its similarly strong support of the
arts.

During the next two weeks, our classes
will continue to confirm the former, but we
will have the opportunity to experience the
Jatter during two very different but highly
worth-while events.

The visual arts exhibit “Broken
Renaissance Explored,” featuring paintings
by Katherine Hester ’08, is currently on dis-
play in the VAC.

On Thursday, Feb. 7, a discussion will be
held between Hester and some of her
Davidson models addressing the womens’
issues. The discussion is open to the public,
is free of charge and all are welcome.

Then on Feb. 13, the Davidson Concert
Series will feature the Hugo Wolf String
Quartet in the Tyler- Tallman Hall of Sloan
Music Center, starting at 7:30 p.m. The
musical program will include Hugo Wolf’s
Italian Serenade, Beethoven’s String Quartet
in B-flat major Op. 130 and Hayden’s String
Quartet in D-major Op. 20.

The Quartet’s members include violinists
Sebastian Grutler and Regis Bringolf, violist
Gertrud Weinmeister and cellist Florian
Berner.

The Quartet was named after the

International Hugo Wolf Society of Vienna
because the quartet’s performing repetoire
extends from the Western Classical Period to
beyond the Second Viennese School, just as
Hugo Wolf’s musical style extended from
the great Viennese music tradition to the
transition into modern music.

Soon after its formation, the group
enjoyed an impressive amount of recogni-
tion, as it won the Fifth International String
Quartet Competition in Cremona, Italy and
placed first at the 45th International G.B.
Viotti Chamber Music Competition. Other
laurels include the Vienna Philharmonic
Orchestra Special. Prize and the European
Cultural Award for Chamber Music.

When the Quartet is not winning awards
for its outstanding musical achievements, it
gives concerts in venues around the world,
including some of the most prominent con-
cert halls in South America, Mexico, Japan,
Europe and the United States. It has also
played radio concerts and appeared in televi-
sion productions for the BBC, Radio Berlin,
KBS and ORF.

General concert admission is $20 and $15
for seniors, while students will be admitted
at the door free of charge.

Sponsors for the Feb. 13th concert include
Davidson College Friends of the Arts and the
local classical radio station WDAV 89.9.

For more information or ticket options,
call 704.894.2828. You may also purchase
tickets at www.davidson.edu/tickets.

ATTENTION SENIORS!!

We have reached 54% paid participation
in the Senior Class Gift —
thanks to all who have participated thus far!
Don't forget that once we reach 80% participation
President Tom Ross will be MATCHING

every dollar we raise up to $10,000.
We're getting closer, but we still need
over 100 gifts to achieve that!

Please send your gift to P.O. Box 7170.
Donations can also be given online at www.davidson.edu/giving.
Thanks!! ©)

Contact Maddie or Anders if you have any questions! (mastough or angustafson)

