4 THE DAVIDSONIAN
—
Belcher, from page 1

extremely useful. -

Belcher presented a long list of qualities
she wanted the biomaterial she created to
possess, including self-assembling, self-cor-
recting and self-healing. “When I show this
list to an audience, I hear laughter,” Belcher
said.

Yet, Belcher noted that biology has mas-
tered most of the qualities presented on her

“Our research usually
starts off with,
‘Wouldn't it be interest-
ing if...2’ and we work
from there”
-Angela Belcher

list.

Belcher used the example of a snowflake,
assembled around a tiny seed particle.
“What could the seed be for electronics?”
Belcher said.

This question led Belcher to explore DNA
insertions into the genetic code of a virus.
Because of the new DNA, the virus will
grow a new protein tip.

Belcher’s lab utilizes a combinatorial
approach, inserting DNA into billions of safe
viruses, and then forcing them to interact
with inorganic material, such as metal ions.
The viruses that then bind to ions are sepa-
rated and identified for replication and use as
building materials.

While she uses a lot of biology in her
research, Belcher says she mainly focuses on
“What can biology do for me?” Belcher has
proven biology can do a lot, in areas many
never would have thought possible..

Belcher noted the advantages of using

biology to engineer materials.

a
“When you
start to make a material, you always have an
opportunity to make it better,” Belcher said,
noting the connection with natural selection.

Belcher is working on developing batter-
ies, solar cells, water-splitting to create
hydrogen gas, fuel cells, nanoelectronics and
medical diagnostics.

During her talk, Belcher focused on her
battery development, though her research in
that area is so extensive it was impossible to
finish her presentation in the time allotted.

The battery Belcher and her laboratory
have developed has the advantage of being
ultra-thin, light-weight and containing a
higher storage capacity.

Though the picture of the battery she
showed was employed to light a small, red
LED light, Belcher believes the technology
may be employed to power cell phones, lap-
tops and similar devices. She noted that we
are a long way from seeing such research
applied to power vehicles or larger machin-
ery.

Belcher said that she went from the idea to
making the materials in about a year and a
half, creating the first self-assembled virus
battery.

One of the valuable lessons Belcher said
she has learned along the way is not to try to
develop the perfect overall solution, but
instead to look at questions they can answer
and proceed from that point. ;

“Our research usually starts off with,
“Wouldn’t it be interesting if...?? and we
work from there” Belcher said.

Belcher and her laboratory embrace chal-
lenge. “We want to work on things that are
very hard but not impossible.”

Davidson’s Smith Lecture series was
established in 1985 to honor President
Emeritus Henry Louis Smith (1901-1912) by
bringing a distinguished scientist to campus
every year.

_ NEws

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 9, 2008
eee eee

a (0 by Bill Giduz

i

Prior to her Smith Lecture, Angela Belcher spoke with a small group of students in
Martin Chemistry Building

Dance ‘of

-questions. As to chance or neces

The Piedmont Libera Forum and |
The Department of Physics. nd Optical, Science at UNC Charlotte

very proudly present a talk by George V. ‘Coyne, S. J.
Director Emeritus of the Vatican Observatory ;

_ Cosmology, Evolution..and .God: The
‘the .Fertile Universe.

Did we come about by chance or by necessity in the evolving universe?
Did God make us? Can we conclude that there i is an Intelligent Design
to the universe?. To what extent can the natural sciences address these
sity the first thing to be said is that the
problem is not formulated corréctly. It is not just a question of chance or
necessity because, first of all, it is both. Furthermore, ‘there is a third
element here that is very important. It is what we might call the “fertility”
of the universe. So the dance of the fertile universe is.a ballet with three
_ ballerinas:; chance, necessity and fertility. What this means is thatthe

universe i is so fertile in offering the opportunity for the success of both
chance and necessary processes that such a character ofthe universe ©
must be included in the search for our origins in the universe. In this light
lam going to try to present in broad strokes what 1 think i is some of the ©
best of our modern scientific understanding of the universe and then
Teturn to the questions above. ,

Book signing, coffee, and refreshments will follow Father Coyne’s talk.
. For more information and directions, visit physics.uncc.edu/coyne.html
or call T The Department of Physics and Optical Science at 704-687-8132

| Monday, i 44 at 7 p.m. on the UNC Charlotte campus.
Room. 100 Fretwell Building. Visitor parking is available.

ADMISSION IS FREE - ALL ARE WELCOME!

