THE DAvVIDSONIAN

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer
The ’Cats traveled to Charleston, SC this
weekend for two conference matches. They
took on. College of Charleston on Saturday
afternoon and finished up their play against
The Citadel on Sunday. The Cougars proved
to be the mightier cat as College of Charles-
ton beat Davidson in only 3 games, (26-24,

Sarabeth Peele ’11 led the ’Cats with 21
kills in Sunday’s victory at The Citadel.

-Late goal propels ’Cats to win in SoCon opener’

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson soccer opened up conference
play with a bang. Davidson took on UNC
Greensboro at Alumni Stadium and won their
conference opener on Wednesday against a
fierce club by a score of 1-0.

After their impressive bout with the
Spartans, Davidson traveled to College of
Charleston on Sunday to face another con-
ference opponent.

Despite many opportunities and a great
match, Davidson fell 3-0, dropping to 1-1 in
conference play.

On Wednesday, Davidson played an ex-
citing match for the home crowd. Davidson
had many scoring opportunities, but for the
first 67 minutes, the game was purely defen-
sive. Neither team could score a goal, and the
Davidson defense did not allow many shots
by UNC Greensboro for the entire game.

In fact, the only shot on goal for UNC

successful results for his clients has eared

hint recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistent!
for the past 23 years and was recently named 23 anc of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Caroline.

Asa former NC Coart of Appeals Judge, fim Fuller i

a widely respected inal lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment fo justice and his exceptional =
litigation skifls. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

J im’s career-long track record of achieving

APPEALS « BANKELPFFCY « BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANNING

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

Aion

LAW FIRM

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 » weww.mcintoshlawfirm.com

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse
Wildcats split games in Charleston

25-17, 25-21).

Leading the way for the Wildcat offense
was Sarabeth Peele ‘11 with 10 kills. Kittery
Neale ’09 also hit well, with nine kills and a
match-high .571 kill percentage. Both Peele
and Neale were contributors to the ’Cats’
defense as well. Peele and Neale had seven
digs each while Madison Benedict ’12 had
four blocks.

In the first game, the Wildcats trailed
from the start. With the score 9-6, Peele,
Neale, and Benedict tied the score with a
kill a piece. Uncompromising offense from
the Cougars allowed them to inch ahead, but
Davidson answered with a 3-0 run, forcing
the Cougars to call a timeout with the score,
22-20. The Cougars made another run, bring-
ing the score to 24-21. Davidson, with help
from a pair of kills by Jorden Benedict ’11,
brought the score to a tie at 24 all. Another
Cougar point allowed the Cougars to claim
the game.

The ’Cats were able to grab an early lead
in the second game with the score at 3-1. The
Cougars, however, made a quick run, bring-
ing the score to 9-4. Davidson was able to
stay close throughout the match but College
of Charleston ultimately won, 25-17.

In the third game, the ’Cats were forced
to play catch up from the very beginning.
Davidson, thanks to tough play and critical
Cougar hitting errors, was able to bring the
score to 18-16. The Cougars answered with
a four point run, bringing the game back to
twenty all. College of Charleston ended the
match with four straight points to win the

Greensboro came at the 80:49 mark. In the
67" minute, Yannick Pilgrim ’11 nearly put
Davidson ahead when he whizzed past the
defense and struck a shot that was blocked
and rebounded by Kyle Engle ’12 who barely
missed his shot to the right of the goal.

Despite Davidson’s superior play, the
game approached the end of regulation and
a possible overtime period; however, Greg
Macnamara ’12 managed to finish off UNC
Greensboro by putting Davidson up 1-0 in
the last five minutes of the game.

Off a give-and-go play with Machel
Turner ’10, Macnamara fired his first career
goal into the upper right hand portion of the
net. Davidson had an exciting finishing net-
ting them a late 1-0 victory.

“Winning the conference opener was big
for us,” commented Peter Shelton *11. “It
was a boost to our confidence, and we ob-
tained a result reflecting all of the hard work
we put in.”

On Sunday, Davidson fell in a hard

prewar Peon njury Atorniess

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries doe to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other arvas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
2 well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to bis family and to bis commanity,
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wile, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplave. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as. a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, bas served on
various Towa of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelivs and Mooresville communities,

LITIGATION « PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

match 25-21.

On Sunday, the ’Cats defeated the Cita-
del Bulldogs in an afternoon match. Led by
Peele with 21 kills and 11 digs, Davidson
took the match 3-1, (29-27, 16-25, 25-20, 25-
11). Other strong players for the Wildcats in-
cluded Christine Perzinski ’12 with nine kills
and 11 digs, hitting .474 in the match, Jenni-
fer Chamblee ’11 with 25 digs and three aces,
and Hayley Lawson ’11 with 39 assists. Law-
son also snagged nine digs and three blocks.

In the first game, strong serving from
Anna Bradbury ’11 gave the ’Cats a 16-10
lead over the Bulldogs. The ’Cats were able
to keep the margin over the Citadel until the
Bulldogs went on a 9-3 run, tying up the
score at 23 all. Davidson took the game, af-
ter several Bulldog hitting errors, 29-27.

The Bulldogs won the second game in
commanding fashion, leading from beginning
to end. The ’Cats were unable to eliminate
the deficit in spite of strong offensive play by
Peele. The ’Cats lost the game, 25-16.

The ’Cats trailed in the beginning of the
third game but pulled together a 10-2 run,
bringing the score to 15-12. The ’Cats fin-
ished the game strong with a 25-20 win. In
the last game, the "Cats dominated from the
start, jumping to a comfortable 12-5 margin.
Bradbury finished the game with a six point
serving streak, ending the game with a final
score of 25-11, securing the win for the Wild-
cats.

The ’Cats defeated Gardner-Webb 3-2 on
Tuesday, Oct. 7 to improve its record to 7-11
overall] and 2-3 in the conference.

fought battle. After 44 minutes of complete
defense, College of Charleston netted a goal
at the 44:11 mark. The same player, Sean de
Silva, scored again a minute after the second
half began putting the College of Charleston
up by a score of 2-0. In the 54" minute, the
College of Charleston scored again to ensure
a victory putting them up 3-0.

Statistically, Davidson played a great
match. Davidson had eight shots to College
of Charleston’s nine and had more corner
kicks than the Cougars. After the 3-0 loss,
Davidson’s conference record declined to
1-1.

“The loss at Charleston was a sign that
the turn to winning is not easy,” Coach Matt
Spear said. “There are moments in the game
where you succeed or break, and they made
some special plays to succeed while we did
not.”

After a busy week, the team will have a
short break before another road match on Fri-
day when they face Furman University.

E NORMAN - NEXT TO WAL
« PHONE: 704-660-839
Charlotte store locations go to morriscd

a,

dl

4)

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 8, 2008

dig

+zHALLOWEEN EXPRESS SUPERSTORE.

wa
