4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a, Sens aa.

Hartwig, from page 4
people living with HIV, 67% were in sub-
Saharan Africa, and 75% of all AIDS deaths
occurred in Africa. The largest number of in-
fections was among 15 to 24-year-olds, and
60% of those infected were women.

“There is a disproportionate impact to the
Africa continent,” Hartwig said. “The burden
of those living with the infection is primarily
in Africa despite the spread of the disease to
other areas of the world.”

Hartwig then moved on to discuss basic
ethical considerations in community-based
research. Firstly, researchers must respect
the groups and work to ensure that people
understand the research program and supply
informed consent.

Beneficence involves recognizing struc-
tural factors, such as lack of leadership, gaps
in health services, poor education, limited
legal rights for women, hunger, poverty and
war, that contribute to risk.

“There is a disproportionate
impact to the African Con-
tinent. The burden of those
living with the infection is
primarily in Africa despite
the spread of the disease to
other areas of the world.

-Dr. Kari Hartwig

“We must avoid further marginalization
of affected groups by maximizing benefits,
minimizing harms and avoiding coercion,”
Hartwig said.

In regards to ethics, researchers must also
adhere to distributive justice and equitable
selection by joining research, community in-

Doctor Kari Hartwig discussed the ethics and practical research of AIDS and HIV in

Africa last Tuesday.

stitution and resident resources in prevention
research and clinical trials.

The “sticky question” of access to anti-
retrovirals (ARVs) in the context of power
and politics was also addressed during the
lecture.

Hartwig used the example of South Af-
rica’s movement to lower the cost of drugs
in the 1990’s to illustrate the difficulties that
emerge with the distribution of HIV/AIDS
medicine. Forty pharmaceutical compa-
nies sued the South African government for
breaking patent laws when it attempted to
enact legislation aimed at reducing the price
of ARVs.

The lawsuit was eventually dropped
in April of 2001 and the World Health Or-
ganization stepped in to introduce its 3x5
program, which aimed to treat three million
people by 2005.

Other issues that are emerging with ARV
treatment are adherence, food security, the
lack of a steady supply of drugs, health sys-
tem infrastructure, the quality of the drugs
and health worker shortages. Trade Related
Aspects of International Property Rights
(TRIPS) involve the question of who can
produce generic drugs and original drugs,
and at what cost. The problem of the pres-
ence of increasing numbers of orphaned chil-
dren also arises.

“Many of the 25 million people who have
died have left behind many young people,”
Hartwig said, “In Tanzania, I would meet
grandmothers caring for seven or eight chil-
dren and see families where the seven-year-
old boy was the head of the household.”

Today there are 15 million children un-
der the age of 18 in Africa who have lost their
parents to HIV/AIDS.

Business Institute

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 10, 2008

In terms of financing AIDS care and pre-
‘vention, Hartwig emphasized the need for
balance between research, care and treatment
and prevention. “Donor coordination is half
the problem. One of the complexities of do-
ing international AIDS work is that everyone
wants to get credit,” Hartwig said.

In terms of countries’ bilateral funding,
the United States donates the most dollars.
But in terms of GDP, we are not as gener:
ous as other countries such as Sweden and
Ireland.

Hartwig ended her lecture by reempha-
sizing the themes of “lead, empower and de-
liver” and “trust, power and hope.”

“Our opportunities for delivering pro-
grams and our research are getting. better
and our leadership is speaking out more than
ever,” Hartwig said. “I feel constant hope
and empowerment by working with people
who are positive, and our efforts thus far are
an incredible testimony to what can be done.
We all have opportunities for leading and em-
powering and delivering, and our own chal-
lenge is figuring out how we can do that.”

ee

display OpenSeats to help students find the
‘closest. open computer if the lab, is ‘full at
that moment, ITS. hopes that this ner .
will assist, ‘students, during -finals -time. as.

The McIntire Business Institute gives.

students a taste of the business world
in just over 4 weeks. Students will ex-
plore the global marketplace while ac-
quiring leadership skills, group work
experience, and an edge in the job
search process. Taught by world class
professors, the MBI focuses on 5 core
concepts: finance, accounting, market-
ing, management, and information
technology.

For more information, visit:

http://www.commerce.virginia.edu/uvambi

UNIVERSITY.
IN/IRGINIA

PA

