THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Unfounded gendered politics must stop |

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Guest Columnist

On Tuesday Jan. 29, the Massachusetts chapter of the
National Organization for Women (NOW) heavily criticized
Senator Ted Kennedy for endorsing Democratic presidential
candidate Barack Obama. NOW endorses Hillary Clinton.
The state chapter of NOW claimed his endorsement to be the
“ultimate betrayal,” because it shows he “can’t or won’t han-
die the prospect of a woman president.”

Furthermore, the state chapter accused Kennedy of contin-
uing to dismiss the “status of and respect for women’s rights,
women’s voices, women’s equality, women’s authority.”
They brought up his past voting record, claiming he was late
to get behind Title IX. The national chapter of NOW, howev-
er, has tried to separate itself from the statements made by its
Massachusetts chapter, stating that although NOW proudly
endorses Sen. Clinton, it respects Sen. Kennedy’s decision.

It is important to clarify something before moving for-
ward. Supporting Hillary Clinton does not make someone a
racist. Similarly, supporting Barack Obama does not make
someone a sexist. Voters should select a candidate based on
that politician’s platforms on important issues. While it is a
big step in this country’s history that an African-American
and a woman have emerged as the two frontrunners for the
Democratic Party, factors such as race and gender should not
matter while choosing a candidate.

The Massachusetts chapter’s claim that Sen. Kennedy can-
not handle a woman president is ludicrous. Explaining his
reasons in a speech at American University, Sen. Kennedy
said that Obama provides a “new generation of leadership,”
desperately needed in Washington. In his eyes, Hillary
Clinton’s presidency would be a continuation of current
Washington politics. Since 1989, the president has been
either a Bush or a Clinton and Hillary Clinton taking over in
2009 would not bring the right change.

He also pointed out that Obama never supported the war in
Iraq, while Hillary Clinton originally had. Throughout his
speech Kennedy reiterated that a President Obama would
bring about the right sort of change both domestically as well
as in foreign affairs.

F Life on the Court
An Epic Poem by Andy Knauss
Chapter Three: Lust

Meet college student X, a would-be Don Juan,
As he hits the dance floor and gets his “freak” on.
When last we saw X he was totally drunk,

And had started to imagine himself as a lrunk;

With alcohol inflating his sense of pide

An average Jekyll transformed into boisterous Hyde.
Tius booze-induced courage impaired his cognition
To the extent that X acts now without mlubiton.
His modesty o’erthrown by Budweiser Light

Certain “urges” awoke that X could not fight,
Compelled by his hormones out into the night

In a madcap pursuit of carnal delight.

X soon came across a faux Mardi Gras,

The theme of the party at Alpha Omega.

As fraternities go, AQ has excelled

In the throwing of parties esteemed nonpareil;
Although the GPA of the frat ranks dead last,
In terms of “rockin” out” they're first in the class.:
With lus wild oats in need to be sown,

X hastened his pace toward that pleasure dome.
He could not resist, so completely enthralled
As if under the spell of a sweet Siren’s call;
Lured by temptation, X entered the squall.
Even the best among us can fall.

According to The New York Times, Kennedy’s decision
was partly fueled by former President Bill Clinton’s state-
ments in support of his wife. Some of these statements were
aimed directly at Obama. Kennedy likened Obama’s mes-
sage to that of former President John F. Kennedy, his broth-
er. He said that just as President Kennedy believed that man
could go to the moon when it seemed impossible, Obama has
a vision that carries the “politics of hope.” Clearly,
Kennedy’s decision has nothing to do with Clinton’s gender,
but rather her platform. The Massachusetts chapter of NOW
also said that it is their “obligation” to support a woman can-
didate after centuries of men in power. This should not be a
reason to support a candidate.

If the state chapter cited Clinton’s plan for universal health
care, or lack of support for No Child Left Behind, their sup-
port of her candidacy would make more sense. If the
Massachusetts chapter of NOW truly respects women’s rights,
women’s voices, women’s equality and women’s authority, it
should look past its blatantly hypocritical statement.

Voters should enjoy the right to support whomever they
choose, and NOW should respect that right. Its website says
that its purpose includes “living free from discrimination.”
Supporting a candidate simply because of gender is indeed
discriminatory, and the Massachusetts state chapter should
be ashamed for making its sexist claim.

Hiring practices dictate that merit should determine hiring
and firing, not age, disability, race or gender. NOW, or any
other voter or interest group, should support a candidate
based on his or her qualifications.

The Massachusetts chapter of NOW has not only made
itself look foolish but has placed Hillary Clinton in a tight
spot as well. On one hand, she does not want to lose votes by
chiding NOW; on the other, she does not want to condone
their statements. The Massachusetts chapter of NOW should
issue an apology not only to Sen. Kennedy and the national
chapter, but also to its members.

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a Music major from Chevy Chase,
Md. Contact him at anmukherjee@ davidson.edu

Foo god e
BE pode:

: Oycx invited to attend to give their own personal percep- -

and we hope it will be followed by “or

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 2008 9

=. Rosen Ga owhe? ——
-. Guest Columnist

On February ‘11, the Gay Straight Alliance and SGA’
© Real Talk are having an open discussion on homophobia ai
* Davidson... The aim of this forum is to raise awareness 0

» this often-times neglected problem and discuss how th

eampus ean end it... 7.

Our inspiration came e from the Free Speech Board las
emester asking “How can we better embrace the GLBT |
ommunity?”, Although there were many supportive and
constructive comments written, the board was dominated <
yy extremely offensive. comments lacking any type. of

" thought, ‘The GSA and SGA realized that homophobia

“needed to. be addressed outright, Most people on campus.
. do not consider homophobia a large Lange and do no

ions of homophobia and explain Davidson’s policies and,
ctions to promote acceptance of the Gay, Lesbian, Bi
exual, and Transgender (GLBT) community."
<The discussion will open with our guests’, comments,
organic discussion”®.
clarifying the size of the problem and devising real solu- ©
tions for the campus. A large and diverse turnout is vital
for the success of this discussion. We want all people to
come with questioris, personal or witness experiences, or
a general interest..“Davidson’s.. Homophobia” «. is
February 11, 2008 at 7:00 p.m in the Sprinkle Room.

° y
8o -

° Ag
fe) .
= y

Music pulsing, bodies wnthing;
More people kcep arnving...

Packed together - girls and boys.-
Ears bleeding from the noise;

Sticky floors and stale perfume,
Shadows thrashing in the gloom; ;
Drenched in sweat from head to toe,
Engulfed within the inferno.

X stumbles about, his neck lined with beads...
“Hoh,” he wonders, “how'd I get these?”

His attention then tums, with unbridled glee,

To a girl wearing nothing save a bikini.

The guys around her ogle and swoon

Like characters out of a Tex Avery cartoou.

X can’t look away...but wait, what’s next?

Did somebody just say “Wet T-Shirt Contest?”
As his blood boils over, K does not believe

That he’s ever experienced such joie de vivre.

He surveys the crowd and, brimming with cheer,
Is intoxicated now on more than just beer.
“Decency be damned!” X thinks with a sneer,
As his loms anticipate the “final frontier.”

This orgy of flesh, where students wanitonly cavort,
Makes lust the third stop on our tour of the court:
