2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

Known as the “The Math Guy” on his
NPR segment, Keith Devlin, made his Da-
vidson debut last Thursday to a packed audi-
ence in the 900 Room for this year’s Bernard
Society lecture. As well as hosting the NPR
segment, Devlin teaches at Stanford Univer-
sity as Consulting Professor of Mathemat-
ics.

He led the night’s lecture in an exposi-
tion entitled “When Mathematics Changed
the World,” and piqued audience interest
by immediately changing the last word of
the title from “World” to “Us.” Clad all in
black, Devlin presented three of the most
revolutionary developments of mathemati-
cal society. Throughout history, mathematics
has changed the world we live in, and even in
some instances, what it is to be human.

The crux of his discussion revolved
around the future, a concept that Devlin said
we take advantage of in present society. “The
future is not a completely closed book; we
do all kinds of things that have risks attached
to them,” Devlin said. Our grasp of numbers,
and more recent understanding of probability
makes the future somewhat tangible, as well
as something on which we now constantly
rely.

It started with the invention of numbers
and arithmetic, the first revolution. “Every-
one’s day revolves around the numbers. We
constantly think about our lives in things
having numbers attached,” Devlin said, be-
fore giving their history. Abstract numbers
took shape in Sumeria around 5000 BC by
way of banking, to symbolize actual items.

Galileo began the second revolution
through his empirical examination of the
natural world. In his experiments with time,
velocity and acceleration, he was the first to
apply numbers to physical quantities. His ki-
nematic equations led to new breakthroughs
in science and new ways of thinking about
numbers. Now we find it nearly impossi-

Ada Jenkins

Katie Loverr
Staff Writer

The Ada Jenkins Center is currently in the
process of transitioning to a new executive
director, Georgia Krueger. Krueger replaces
former executive director Jay Laurens.

The Ada Jenkins Center is a regional
non-profit community service organization
that provides community support through a
variety of services and programs.

Its benefits range from medical and den-
tal services, youth education programs, ser-
vices for families in crisis and programs to
encourage economic independence. The Ada
Jenkins Mission Statement is “to improve the
quality of life for the residents of our com-
munities through the integrated delivery of
health, education and human services”.

Laurens’ last day was Friday, Oct. 3. Lau-
rens has taken a job in grant writing and de-
velopment for the Center for the Environment
at Catawba College in Salisbury, NC in order
to be closer to his home in Rowan County
and spend more time with his family.

Krueger spent 20 years as director of the
Lake Norman Family YMCA and is well-
known in the north Mecklenburg region. She
will act as an interim director through Dec.
31st while board member Timi Griffin leads
the search for a permanent replacement.

In between her positions at the YMCA
and the Ada Jenkins Center, Krueger took
some time off to travel the United States be-
fore returning to start a consulting practice in
leadership development and organizational
behavior.

Her experience will help the Ada Jenkins
Center continue to flourish as a community

NPR’ s “Math Guy“ Keith Devlin delivered his lecture “When Mathematics Changes
the World“ this past Thursday in the 900 Room.

ble to disassociate numbers with the world
around us.

The third revolution began with a letter
between Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fer-
mat on Monday, Aug. 24, 1654. They had
exchanged letters throughout the summer,
working out the following problem: “Sup-
pose two people are gambling and playing
the best of five games.. They have to stop
the game with one winning two to one, how
should pot be divided to reflect the game?”

Devlin played a brief video that worked
out Fermat’s answer, that the winner should
get %4 of the pot because he would have three
out of four possible outcomes to win. In the
Aug. 24 letter, Pascal argued this answer, not
being able to grasp the concept. Why did he
find this seemingly simple problem so diffi-
cult? “What Fermat did was reason into the
future that hadn’t happened,” Deviln said.
We understand probability, but in that day,
people did not understand the concept of

Center hires

center and a home base for a variety of ser-
vice programs.

The Ada Jenkins Center is located in a
former school on Gamble Street and is home
to the Loaves and Fishes food pantry, the se-
nior nutrition center, free dental and medical
clinics, a parish nurse, Head Start, The Salva-
tion Army Boys and Girls Club of Davidson,
Crisis Assistance Ministries, Latino Services
and the LearnWorks after school program.

“Krueger looks forward
toward helping the Ada
Jenkins center continue to
thrive inher position as
interim executive
director.”

The center also offers computer train-
ing and job and career counseling, as well as
Spanish classes.

Many Davidson students are referred to
the Ada Jenkins Center to fulfill their work-
study requirements, serving as tutors, trans-
lators and administrative assistants.

The Ada Jenkins Center has been in ex-
istence since Nov. 8, 1998, and today houses
17 programs and has a 19-member Board of
Directors. Krueger will contribute to the dy-
namic and enthusiastic group of volunteers
that maintains the mission and focus of the
Ada Jenkins Center.

Her role as executive director involves
being responsible for everything from bud-
getary concerns to the day-to-day manage-

“possible outcomes.”

“The fact that we have trouble figuring
out how this was difficult for them shows the
change in culture,” Devlin said. After this, a
great number of scientists and mathemati-
cians explored and wrestled with this issue
until Thomas Bayes’ formal probability theo-
rem was published posthumously in 1764.

Are we in a fourth revolution? Devlin
suggests that we are, though he does not yet
know what it is. He speculates that it will
have something to do with technological
communication. Who knows what is in store
for our future; how the way we think might
change in our lifetime or in those of our pos-
terity? The future awaits, we have our foot
in its doorway, and we could go anywhere.
Devlin then excitedly concluded this contem-
plation of the future by again looking at the
past. “And it all started on a Monday...with
the sending of a letter on Aug. 24, 1654,” he
said.

new director |

ment of the center. The position demands a
person with a fine balance of patience and
persistence.

As a result of program enhancements and
improved service efficiency, the Ada Jenkins
Center has increased its services to neighbor-
ing areas in need by 65 percent.

As a result of funding from churches,
United Way, grants and private donations,
the center is able to aid an ever-increasing
amount of local residents.

Krueger looks forward to helping the
Ada Jenkins Center continue to thrive in her
position as interim executive director.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 22, 2008

At OE ie

rom page

subject umbrellas. These ek groups, in
orders to en it

_and faculty, as Davidson Colleges an in-
rei part of Davidson’ s 's identity and. cha

“involved, Levine gave an emphatic: “Ab+)
solutely?’ Elementary and middle. school.
children are also being consulted in order”
2 to form a complete picture of the citizens!
a Levine indicated that a requirement ‘for:
being on these study groups is the ability.
to make. a. commitment. The application.
for membership on a study group, avail-”
able at www.plandavidson.org, asks, BAre.
you able to commit to 7-9 meetings, meet~
_ing bi-monthly or monthly between N

Ye

_mitment, howeyer, the town. would still |
like. them. to be: involved. According to,

:

‘Levine, they can attend the particular sub-

ate about environmental issues could be
.in the environmental responsibility group. :
/The © application does have a section asking

‘the. “central point online”: where. vin bed
can get updates:, about the Compreheny

_about the Plan, examples” ‘of comprehen-
: sive plans in other towns and info. about * :

: uming, acknowledged Wessner. Still, shez
: argued, the effort to broaden the dialogue:
_will ‘yield, a constructive: document that.
-town leaders can use well into the future?
“We don’t want to create: a huge stack of
paper that sit’s unused somewhere:
The. development of this plan into the
ture will be an “organic”. "process, Wes

‘ner. indicated; There. will be’! *periodic
* checks”: to reevaluate the populace’ 8, Valz

on the opportunity to see the world
from a unique perspective

Hf you are curious and adventurous, then pack
your bags and say goodbye tc the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit, experience

a different culture, learn a foreign language,

discover wha you are and much more.

USAC, your gateway to the world="

