THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Environmental Studies central to liberal arts

Moira McCormick
Guest Writer

I write on behalf of the Environmental Action
Coalition members in rebuttal to Spencer Cowan’s column,
“Environmental Studies undermines liberal arts purpose.”
In light of the College’s Year of Sustainability, we feel that
the Environmental Studies (ES) concentration is, in fact, a
crucial addition to the liberal arts curricula at Davidson

College. In our defense of the ES concentration, we do not .

attempt to undermine the liberal arts concept that, as Mr.
Cowan so beautifully phrased it, should compel “graduates
[to] feel as if the world...not a particular specialty, is their
oyster.” Rather, we intend only to state the relevance of ES
in the liberal arts context and in particular to the Davidson
College curricula.

First, we would like to cite the College’s policy that a
concentration enables students to “make connections across
courses and disciplines” through an “interdisciptinary cluster
of courses which addresses a specific area of study.” We agree
that the concentration can increase the relevance of the liberal
arts curriculum. Davidson’s ES concentration was not a result
of some fleeting administrative whim. The establishment of
ES as a concentration has taken years of concerted effort on
the part of dedicated faculty. As Dr. David Martin, Professor
of Economics, described:

“The administrators had relatively little to do with the
creation of the [ES] concentration, indeed any concentration.
Faculty are in charge of the curriculum, and it was a very
long-term effort by faculty (including me for a number of
years) that led to the concentration.”

Dr. Martin implied a careful consideration of not only
the suitability but also the necessity of ES as a concentration
option at Davidson. The faculty’s perseverance and dedication
in developing the concentration refutes Mr. Cowan’s notion
that environmentalism is a “questionable value.” Rather,
the establishment of the ES concentration implies an
understanding among the faculty that the concentration will
provide critical values and knowledge about the preservation
and consumption of the life-giving and sustaining resources
that, in today’s world, Davidson students must have the
option of studying.

Indeed, ES has garnered legitimacy in liberal arts

academia, especially among our peer institutions. Many
liberal arts colleges of comparable caliber have long offered
ES programs. In 1965, Middlebury College established the
first ES major in the nation. Since then, Washington and
Lee, Williams, Amherst and Bowdoin have all established
ES majors or concentrations. The list goes on. The progress
that liberal arts academia has made toward the establishment
and enrichment of the ES curriculum hints at the discipline’s
importance and suggests that it is not a “fad,” as Mr. Cowan
put it. So what is it about ES that has compelled so many
institutions to hire faculty to design programs and courses to
teach it?

A good ES program can provide students with an
understanding of the relationship between the environment
and all facets of human existence. Food crises, resource
wars, habitat destruction and economic stability exemplify
only a few monumental issues with strong connections to
environmental integrity. These problems will only escalate in
complexity and scope. As tomorrow’s economists, scientists,
politicjans and social workers, these problems are ours to
learn.about and confront. It is Davidson College’s mission to
prepare students to be active, productive citizens and leaders
in the world, and knowledge of ES will prove to be a crucial
tool in this mission. We wish that Mr. Cowan were correct in
Stating that environmental issues are “impersonal” and will
soon become “antiquated.” We wish that Mr. Cowan were
correct in saying that the complex issues that ES will address
are only a concern for our generation.

We understand, however, that the importance of these
issues will not decrease any time soon, but will, in fact, increase
in significance. Thus, rather than succumbing to a “trend,”
the Davidson College faculty has simply acknowledged the
relevance of environmental awareness and intelligence in
the world of today and tomorrow. Environmental problems
will only continue to magnify on a regional, national and
global scale until a generation of leaders steps up to realize
and counter them. It is Davidson College’s role, as a liberal
arts institution, to prepare students for this challenging and
relevant task.

Moira McCormick ’09, is a political science major and
EAC Secretary. She is from Greenville, S.C. Contact her at
momccormick@ davidson.edu.

Cultural catastrophe real and worrisome

RyAN GOUGH
Guest Writer

I appreciate John Evans’ response titled “Cultural
catastrophe a false alarm.” The fact that he is willing to
engage in this discussion shows that he cares, and that, to me,
is quite encouraging. I agree with him on many points, but I
also think that his logic actually comes full-circle to refute
his argument.

As John pointed out, this discussion is an academic one.
But I disagree that “such a weighty issue could not possibly
be addressed:..in a student-run newspaper.” It can, and I
think, should be discussed in a student-run newspaper. We
need not use florid vocabulary and academic phrases in order
to discuss this issue; there is value in bringing these debates
down from the ivory tower and communicating them in
vernacular.

I agree with John that “culture cannot be reduced so
narrowly to a dichotomy of good and bad,” that we should
“examine the source of [art’s] origination in the habits
and ideologies of individual groups and person” and that
“cultures...are the markets of our minds.” But it is precisely
because I agree with John on these various points that I am
concemed about our own culture.

I never said that Western culture was “bad,” nor did I say
that our culture was producing “bad” art. What I said was that
our generation seems to find it very difficult, if not impossible,
to find art or music that is significant. Few can give me names
of anyone that have significantly changed the art world in our
generation. If John could offer significant names and works, I
would love to hear them. But even if he could, I would guess
that their significance is highly debatable.

The New York Times recently published an article on
Jeff Koons’ exhibition in Versailles. One of Koons’ notable
works was a blow-up toy lobster hung by a chain from the
ceiling. Koons painted the lobster with yellow stripes. He
explained that the work commented on the fact that if anyone
stays in the Hollywood limelight for long enough, he will be
burned by the attention (hence the yellow stripes). Visitors to
Versailles were outraged.

Damien Hirst, another artist, recently made millions at an
auction. The “Golden Calf,” another animal in formaldehyde,
sold for tens-of-millions of dollars. John may “not part with
a cent for something that announces the end of imagination,”
but many collectors and museums are parting with record
amounts of money for works that tout “the end of imagination”

and spit in “those fountains of original creation from which
the ancients drank.”

I do not have the degrees or experience to call the shots
on these works. But I think it is fair to say that the work of
many contemporary artists and musicians flies in the face
of the Western tradition that John so admires (a Classics
major, no less). The goal of Koons’ and Hirst’s (again, two
of the most highly revered contemporary artists of our time)
work is to reveal the shallowness of the art industry and the
baseness of Western culture. Their work is an attempt to
mock art, creation and imagination. It is, in many respects,
anti-intellectual, cynical and destructive. To equate these
men with those that the West understands as great, is close
to blasphemy.

John states that cultures are the markets of our minds. Art,
I’m sure he would agree, is a physical manifestation of our
culture’s thoughts, emotions, predilections, perceptions of
beauty, etc. What are these “works of art” telling us about our
culture? Some of you are answering, “I don’t know.” Some
are answering, “I don’t care.” This is why I’m worried.

Why do “artists” continue to slash canvases and put pink
fluorescent lights in corners and call it “art.” I think part of
the reason is that we cherish relativism in our culture. “If
it’s good for you, it’s good for me!” I am not one to tell you
who or what is morally or artistically good or bad, but I think
there needs to be a compromise here. The stark relativism
that pervades Western culture has destroyed standards and
partly fuels the nihilistic, cynical art and music that we now.
encounter and pay millions for.

Last, I would like to address John’s statement that “there
is no such thing as a ‘cultural apocalypse.’” I hope he is right.
According to John’s thesis, a cultural apocalypse could mean
the end of the “market of our minds” (John’s words). I hope
to God that that does not happen, but some contemporary
scholars are now arguing that some elements of our highly
fluid, global world are actually challenging the roots of a
common American culture. In fact, some argue that a mixture
of NGOs, transnational political groups and corporations are
challenging our ability to rule ourselves. But that question is
a political debate and outside the “nebula” of this essay. Is the
end of an American culture a good thing? I don’t know. We
might have to decide what “good” and “bad” is first. What's
good for you is good for me.

Ryan Gough °10 is a political science major from

Elizabethan, Tenn. Contact him at rygough@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2008 9

Party regulations
cause confusion

For almost four years now, I’ve
loved the Davidson College police
force. Yes, I use the word “love” and
I mean it.

From joking with Officer Jackson
at Connor parties, to watching one of
my friends dance with Officer Wes
two years ago on self-selection night,
I’ve been floored by the friendliness
and approachability of our police
officers.

During these past two weekends,
however, the police shut down
countless registered parties in
Martin Court apartments for many reasons that have yet to
be determined. Don’t get me wrong, my love for Officer
Jackson, Fountain, et al. will never die. But I think I speak
for the greater student population when I ask, “What’s going
on?” What happened to the old rules, and what exactly are the
new rules that we keep violating?

For years, Martin Court apartments, particularly F, have
hosted countless parties with the cops a step away in case
of trouble. They parked their police cars in a row along the
road and watched over us to ensure that we were safe and not
doing anything stupid — well, anything too stupid.

During the last few weekends, however, I have found
myself watching party after party disassemble, followed by
small bands of students wandering drunkenly into the night.
I was surprised to see so many parties disbanded, especially
after the email Patty Perillo, Assistant Dean of Students,
sent to all Martin Court residents two weeks ago. The email
clarified several of the party registration rules and regulations
for senior apartments, rules that had been debated and
misunderstood since the first night of school. As a resident
of F, I had no idea what the new rules were before the email,
or that they even existed. After the email, I felt confident that
parties would go on as planned and that the mutual respect
between students and police officers would once again exist
in Martin Court. The events of the past two weekends proved
me wrong. '

Patty Perillo’s email said the following: “If an event,
regardless of the number of people attending, exhibits clear
policy violations or concern, the police or student staff has the
right to stop the event.” Here’s where we get into ambiguity,
and here’s where my head starts to hurt. This clause basically
allows the police to shut down any party at any time if they
decide it is not in accordance with alcohol policy. This, in
theory, makes perfect sense, but in execution fails miserably.
I was at more than one party this weekend where everyone
in the apartment was over 21 and the party was still shut
down for reasons unknown. What constitutes a clear policy
violation? Prepubescent-looking boys shotgunning beers
on patios? Girls wildly lip-synching to “Just Dance” while
waving a bottle of Cuervo? Wait, so those aren’t okay?

I cite such exaggerated examples to make a point — that
we as Davidson students have a pretty good grasp on what is
and isn’t appropriate, safe, and/or legal. Underage drinking
is obviously illegal, but moving it out of senior apartments
and back into the rooms of Cannon or Rich will not solve
anything. If parties continually end because of ambiguous,
elusive violations, then student-officer respect will die, and if
that happens, I fear for the worst. Underage drinking would
not be new to Davidson College, although a divide between
the police and the students would.

Rampant party-busting might also encourage honor code
violations. Students who once admitted to the police that

assemble

ASHLEY Saaees

.they were underage will now lie, and the use of fake IDs on

campus—a relative rarity at Davidson— will skyrocket.

Most Davidson students are blessed with the elusive
phenomenon known as common sense. As individuals,
we are responsible and smart. When individuals fail to act
responsibly, we rely on the Davidson student community; we
watch over one another. As President of my eating house,
I try to make sure my girls are safe wherever they are—in
my apartment, someone else’s or on the court. Their safety
is not solely dependent on law enforcement. The police are
necessary, but upperclassmen (the majority of residents in
Martin Court) will also enforce rules, as long as we know
what they are.

I think I speak for the greater student body when I state
that I, my friends, my apartment, my eating house, etc. would
love to abide by the college’s rules if we knew what they were
and where they came from. If the administration, the police
and the students were all on the same page then we could skip
all the fighting and confusion and get.on to having fun.

Ashiey Semble ’09 is a history major from Winston-Salem,
N.C. Contact her at assemble @davidson.edu.
