THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NovemBer 5, 2008

:

10

IVING

Andy Warhol exhibit on display at Mint Museum

JENNIFER ERRINGTON
Arts & Living Editor

Andy Warhol, 1960: American printmak-

er, photographer, filmmaker and founder of

Pop Art. His alternative, ecclectic work has
gained immense popularity over subsequent
decades ultimately to be regarded now as one
of the greatest artistic movements of the 20th
century.

Drawing heavily upon American iconic
megaliths such as Campell’s Soup, Coca
Cola bottles and Marylin Monroe, Warhol
began creating a wide range of colorful, car-
toonish paintings which reflected the very es-
sence of what it meant to live in commercial
America.

During the 1960s, he founded what was
known as “The Factory,” his own art studio
around which he amassed a large and ec-
centric following of various artists, writers
and celebrities. In keeping with burgeoning
mass media, he wanted to be known as a
“machine,” producing high numbers of im-
ages which were both artistically sound and
controversial.

For example, although few would find
fault with beautiful icons such as Ingrid
Bergman, Grace Kelly or Elizabeth Taylor,
Warhol sought more serious subjects, and
likewise turned to money and newspaper
clippings— the latter of which featured high-
ly violent images of knives, skulls, electric
chairs, police dogs mauling civil rights pro-
testors and mushroom clouds,

Warhol debuted his private print col-
lection in 1962 at New York City’s Eleanor
Ward’s Stable Gallery where his works in-
cluded “Marilyn Diptych” and “100 Dollar
Bills.” Then the 1964 installation marked
a key turning point in Warhol’s career with
“The American Supermarket,” a show held
in Paul Bianchini’s Upper East Side Gallery

Jolie’s skills evident ; in ‘Changeling’ J

HANNAH JAKOB
Staff Writer

Powerful. Gripping. Emotional. Nothing
less could describe Clint Eastwood’s latest
film “Changeling.” Angelina Jolie gives

which presented the collaborative works of
six mainstream artists and included images
of canned goods, meat and Warhol’s own fa-
mous Campbell’s canned soup image. Ironi-
cally, the latter piece costed a grand total of
$1,600, and only six dollars per autographed
copy. This exhibit was one of the first public
displays of Pop Art.

New York City, Feb. 22, 1987: the Andy
Warhol reign met a bitter end. However, for
an artist of such heavy public influence and
personal controversy; his death was ironically
less than remarkable. It was actually during a
recovery from routine galt bladder surgery in

stirring portrayal of a woman who, against
all odds, desperately searches for her son.
Jolie’s display of emotion and desire is
more than realistic, it is heartbreaking and
inspiring.
When

the film’s producers first ap-

Though she at first expressed qualms about her role in “The Changeling,” Angelina
Jolie eventually accepted the part. Audiences should be happy with her decision.

saphsncenedat es
a8

a New York hospital that Warhol suffered a
heart attack in the middle of the night, which
ended his life.

The man is gone, but the legend is as
fresh as ever. His famous works are cycled
througout museums and art books and du-
plicated on everything from posters to key
chains. And currently on display at the Cliar-
lotte Mint Museum is the “Andy Warhol
Portfolios: Life & Legend” exhibit.

Featuring approximately 60 pieces from
various portfolios including the large Bank of
America collection, some of his most promi-
nent pieces will come from the “Endangered

pe
# bs

proached Jolie about casting her for the role
of Christine, the actress had several doubts.
She worried about how the disturbing sub-
ject matter might affect her as a mother.
Jolie, fortunately, read the script and was
swayed. She decided to play the part because
of Christine’s admirable resilency in the face
of a horrible situation.

When Christine Collins’ (Jolie) nine-
year-old son Walter (Gattlin Griffith) goes
missing on March 10, 1928 Christine, as any
mother would, calls the police. The voice
on the other end of the line harshly tells her
that she cannot report a missing child for 24
hours. Christine cannot understand the logic
of this but, being a proper ‘lady’ of the time,
she holds her tongue and hangs up.

After weeks of no news from the police
department, Christine gets a surprise visit
from the police, who tell her that they have
found her son.

But the boy the police present Christine
with is not her son. She tells Captain Jones
(Jeffrey Donovan) that this child does not be-
long to her, but he refutes her claim to avoid
embarrassment. Instead, the captain insists
that Christine is overcome with emotion and
is therefore not thinking straight. He con-
cludes that she simply does not recognize the
boy because he has drastically changed from
the result of intense trauma.

Christine knows this is all an elaborate
lie. She begs Captain Jones to continue look-
ing for her real son, yet he refuses because he
is certain that they have already found him.
With her persistent complaints, Christine be-
comes a nuisance to the police. They begin to

See Jolie, page 1]

Species Portfolio,” the “Flowers Portfolio,”
the “Myths Portfolio,” the “Muhammad Ali
Portfolio” and the “Space Fruits Portfolio.”
Each of these portfolios provide about ten
color screenprints.

Having officially begun Oct. 4, this ex-
hibit will remain open until Feb. 15, 2009,
and admissions runs $6 for adults, $5 for
college students with identification and free.
for ages five and younger. Museum hours are
Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., Wednesday
through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sun-
day 12 p.m. to 5 p.m. The museum is closed
Monday.

cpus : S Lo

Ene, This is the night of their wedding, and,

e English coast for their Honeyfngon Z
ee McEwan . places, the “charact

“The struggles Bashar and Florence: uns

ite

jay into marriage, it who. we ckng

