THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

P.E. Dept.changes requirements for students

MELissa Hickey
Staff Writer

Under the guidance of Director of Physi-
cal Education and Recreation Sandy Helfgott,
the PE. Department is currently implement-
ing a number of changes, including modifica-
tions in graduation requirements as well as
new class options.

“T believe that students have been want-
ing a true physical education and recreation
department for years,” Helfgott said.

“This is a ridiculously athletic and fit
campus, and I knew that if we offered the
right classes, and enough of them, students
would sign up.”

Helfgott’s hunch proved correct, and this
semester over 400 students, nearly a quarter
of the school’s population, enrolled in the
various classes offered.

This number is especially encouraging
when compared to the substantially lower
enrollment rates of past semesters.

“The perception of the Class of 2008 was
that our department was a joke,” Helfgott
said. “But I] am confident that we can change
that.”

It is clear that the department’s efforts
are paying off, as students, such as Hannah
Wright 712, take advantage of new classes
like spinning.

“All of the classes are really cool and sur-
prisingly diverse,” Wright said. “There are
some that I’d never even heard of.”

Some of the more eclectic classes offered
this semester include waterskiing, sailing,
belly dancing, tai chi, karate, “yogalates”
and Budokon, a fusion of yoga, martial arts
conditioning and meditation.

Most classes meet once a week for a

range of five to 12 weeks, making it easy
for the ever-busy Davidson student to fit the
required classes into their already packed
schedules.

“We strongly believe that allowing stu-
dents to choose activities of interest will only
reinforce the importance of personal fitness
and wellness,” Helfgott said.

In addition to expanding class offerings,
the PE. Department also revised the physical
education graduation requirement.

Previously, students were required to
complete Davidson 101 in their first semes-
ter and one lifetime sport, one team sport and
one water sport by the end of their sopho-
more year.

Beginning this year, however, the depart-
ment will make no distinction between the
water-related classes and other lifetime ac-
tivity classes.

Consequently, the team sport and Da-
vidson 101 requirements will remain, while
the curriculum is adjusted to incorporate two
lifetime activity requirements, which now
include the water-related classes.

“Because the overwhelming majority of
students that had not fulfilled their require-
ments were missing their water credit and,
realistically, we can only accommodate 70 to
80 students per semester in aquatic activities,
we could not increase our aquatic program-
ming without adding additional resources,”
Helfgott said.

Thus, students may take a water sport as
one of their two lifetime activity credits if
they wish, but are not required to specifically
take water classes.

Students that do not pass the swimming
evaluation during freshman orientation must
still take a beginner swimming class, how-

Career Service Career Fair
September 24th, 2008

Noon-— 3:00 PM

‘Union Atrium

~ © Employers
~ = « American Cancer Society
-» Bain & Company
« Bankers Life & Casualty
+ Corporate Executive Board
« Cross-Cultural Solutions

Davidson College Human Resources (Fellows)

__« Discovery Place
- Edgeview Partners
Fastenal Company
Fidus Partners, LLC
Hartford Financial
Kaplan Testing

Lowe's Companies, Inc.
« NC Museum of Natural Sciences
« SunGard Consulting
« Teach for America

US Army

+ Visit Lake Norman
+ Western Southern Life
+ WJZY- TV and WWWB- TV

Graduate Schools

Charlotte School of Law
Elon University

Gardner Webb University
Institute of World Politics

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

NC State— Jenkins School of Management
PSI—Psychological Studies Institute

Sherman College of Straight Chiropractic

UNC C harlotte Graduate Programs

UNC Greensboro Graduate School

« University of South Carolina—Moore School of Business
-« Vanderbilt Owen Graduate School of Management

« Bard Program of Globalization and International Affairs
Campbell University School of Pharmacy

“ « Wake Forest Babcock School of Management & School of Medicine

ever.

In addition to these changes, students
are no longer explicitly required to complete
their P.E. credits by the end of sophomore
year.

“Many were concerned that students
would blow off or forget about the require-
ments until their senior year,” Helfgott, who
proposed the curriculum change, said. “But I
argued that we could not accommodate if ev-
ery student wanted to complete the require-
ment by the end of their sophomore year
anyway.

“Second, students were still either blow-
ing it off, ignoring it or forgetting about it, so
why in the world did we have such a require-
ment if it wasn’t being met nor enforced?”

In keeping with the Davidson College
Academic Mission, which affirms that stu-
dents be engaged in the decision making pro-
cess, the Physical Education and Recreation
department now offers students more options
and flexibility than ever.

“Before I made this decision I spoke with
at least 50 students, éveryone from the varsity
athlete to someone simply looking to fulfill
the graduation requirement, and explained to
them what I was thinking,” Helfgott said.

“I cannot remember a single student that
did not support this change.”

FRANCISCO FIALLO

Staff Writer

The Student Government Association
(SGA) focused on transportation issues at
their last meeting.

The discussion included bringing a Zip-
car car sharing service to campus and po-
tentially making changes to the Community
Bike program.

Zipcar, Inc. is a company that rents cars
hourly to members. Zipcar has partnerships
with several colleges similar to Davidson,
including Amherst and Smith in Massachu-
setts.

According to Student Life Committee
chair Meikaela Zwierynzski °10, the college
would pay Zipcar, Inc. a monthly fee (about
$1500-$1700) per car, which covers all ex-
penses, including gasoline, maintenance and
insurance.

Students who wish to use the car would
pay the college a subscription, giving them
the option to rent the car at any time. Rental
rates for the car would either be a seven dol-
lar hourly rate or a $60 daily rate.

Senator Anahi Alvear ’11 voiced her sup-
port for the program, pointing out that it is
often difficult for international students to
get transportation and that the car sharing
service would make life easier.

The next step for the Student Life Com-
mittee is to begin surveying students regard-
ing the number and types of cars that would
be brought to campus.

The committee will also be contacting
the Pines, a local retirement community, and
other organizations that may be interested in
partnering with the college.

The second major topic of the meeting
was the Community Bike program. The fleet
of 30 bicycles endures considerable wear and
tear as well as outright vandalism over the
course of the year.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 17, 2008 3

a

@aCorrections Box +
ast week's edition did not include photo
credits on the front page. Photographer

aney Schenk ‘12 provided all three pho-
Os.

he Sept. 3 article “Freshman class largest
ever” incorrectly credited the class of 2012
as the largest in the College’s history. This
distinction belongs to the class of 2007 in

hich 492 students enrolled.

As a result, approximately ten of those
bicycles must be replaced annually. In ad-
dition, bicycles are often left lying in the
grassy areas, a significant inconvenience for
grounds crews.

The senators recommended several solu-
tions. The Student Life Committee plans to
place several racks around campus that will
be exclusively for use with community bi-
cycles.

Hopefully, students will place them in
the racks, rather than tossing them to the
ground.

Another suggestion was to begin locking
the bikes to the racks and having students
pay a one-time, nominal fee for a key to the
locks.

During the meeting the SGA also selected
Robert Lord Galloway ’09 and Ebony Harley
’09 as its nominees for Homecoming King
and Queen, respectively.

SGA also unanimously gonfirmed Mary-
beth Campeau ’11 for the position of Public-
ity Officer. .

Campeau currently has work-study with
the college’s Communications Office, where
she contributed to the Wildcat Handbook.
Her experience collaborating with the office
and its employees made her a natural fit for
the position, according to SGA president Da-
vis Greene ’09.

Before closing, Greene also announced
that vacancies needed to be filled on two stu-
dent advisory groups.

One advisory group is with the Residence
Life Office (RLO) and gives students (both
RLO staff and unaffiliated) opportunities to
provide feedback on housing policy—most
recently on the decision to renovate Watts
and Richardson Dormitories.

The other is the Library Advisory Group
which will meet directly with Library Di-
rector Jill Gremmels and provide input and
feedback on library renovation plans.
