10

IN

THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY,
APRIL 9, 2008

Davidson Farmer’s Market supports local produce

By CAROLINE Woop
Arts and Living Editor

Despite the painfully dreary weather, the
forces of spring are well underway, and the
season’s first crops — strawberries, aspara-
gus, lettuces, peas - are ripening. The time

has finally come for Downtown Davidson .

Inc. to invite you to “Be a Part of Davidson’s
Locavore Revolution!” by supporting the
brand-new Davidson Farmer’s Market
(DFM).

Locavores, those who eat and promote
local, sustainably farmed foods, attest that
produce from local farms not only tastes bet-
ter, but contains more vitamins and nutrients,
is not genetically modified and supports
local economy and a healthy environment.

Opening for its first season on May 3, the
Davidson Farmer’s Market promises to offer
relief for townies exhausted by plentiful but
pesticide-stricken Teeter produce and the
wilted, blighted Home Economist crop.

Over a dozen farms in Central North
Carolina, from China Grove to Denver to
Troutman, will offer the best of their summer
produce each week.

Not only will the market feature dozens of
varieties of fruit, herbs and garden vegeta-
bles, but visitors will also find flowers,
homemade soaps, local honey (good for
allergies), fresh eggs, sundry baked goods
and even ostrich meat from Concord’s Bird
Brain Ranch.DFM prides itself in its person-
al, accessible atmosphere.

Instead of shipping or delivering goods,
farmers will attend the market to sell their
produce themselves, strengthening the bonds
between producer and consumer and aug-

Shoppers enjoy fresh produce at a North Carolina DACS market

menting the sense of community already at
the heart of the market. Shoppers can now
direct questions to the actual farmer, whether
they are wondering about the nature of a par-
ticular vegetable, the best way to use an herb
or the production history of an item.

Visit the market, next door to the town
hall, any Saturday between 8 a.m. and 12

p.m. and you can be sure to find a féstive,
busy celebration of food and people. DFM
hopes someday to become a venue for local
music, entertainment and events that extend
beyond the culinary scene alone.

The new market is one in a family of
avenues for local food scattered around the
Charlotte area. The DFM website offers a

Get to know the dance ensemble ‘

Athan Makansi

Which dance are you performing in?:

Bollywood. I was originally in Step as
well, but it was just too complicated. It’s
even harder since there is no music and you
are responsible for keeping the beat. I don’t
know how anyone manages to keep up!
More power to them...

Is this your first time participating in
Dance Ensemble?

Yes. Every time I leave the Dance
Ensemble performance, I just want to break
out and start dancing. So this year I’m actu-
ally going to do it.

What is your favorite thing about your
dance?

I’m not sure. Part of the reason I’m doing
it is that I’m going to India next semester,
and the Bollywood dance serves as a really
interesting cultural introduction. The chore-
ographers are great; they definitely know
their stuff.

Will you do Dance Ensemble again?

I would definitely like to do it again.

Moriah Wood

Dance?
Swing and Salsa. This is my second

_ semester doing Dance Ensemble; last semes-

ter I did Bellydancing. They’re both really
neat, but they’re very different, especially in
terms of costuming.

In Bellydance you feel so exposed, and
the costumes are so rich and ornate. Swing
adds a lot of different elements because it is
a partner dance, which is really fun. It’s very
flirtatious, but it’s meant to look like you’re
not trying to flirt.

How much time have you spent prac-
ticing?

I’ve probably been to over 20 practices.
We have practice every day this week.

If you were a dance, which one would
you be?

The Foxtrot. It’s very formal, but it is
also flirtatious and coy.

Devon Weeks

Dance?
Step. I did ballroom for three semesters,
and I really loved it.

Why did you decide to switch to Step?

I really wanted to try something new and
completely different. I think I’ve been won
over; I’m going to have to do Step from now
on.

Have you found the move from bail-
room to Step a difficult transition?

I think it would have been really difficult
if I didn’t have any experience, but I’ve been
dancing for a while, and I’ve studied music
for a long time.

So, have a pretty good sense of rhythm.

if you were a dance, which one would
you be?
The Tango.

link to a particularly interesting resource,
www.localharvest.org, which offers search-
able maps of farms, markets and local foods
restaurants across the United States. The
Charlotte area is littered with tiny red and
green landmark triangles, showing that what
at first seems like a sprawling suburban
wasteland has a rich agricultural foundation
and abundant opportunities to become more
involved in your consumption.

A number of markets in the area offer
fresh produce for those who just can’t wait
for May 3 (or Saturday every week). The
State of North Carolina Department of
Agriculture and Consumer Services runs and
supports the city’s largest market, the
Charlotte Farmer’s Market.

The vast, accessible market is open
Tuesday-Saturday 8 a.m. to 6 pm. and
Sunday 12:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. during the sum-
mer season. Like DFM, they boast a wide
array of goods, adding such tempting items
as goat milk cheese and grass-fed beef. Their
motto proclaims the importance they place
on quality: “If it was any fresher, it would
still.be in the garden!”

The Kings Drive Farmer’s Market is open
Tuesday-Friday and the Charlotte Regional
Farmer’s Market Tuesday-Saturday.
Although these markets focus on fresh, often
organic produce, they do not stress local
food.

The Charlotte Tailgate Farmers’ Market
has long claimed the status of the only local
foods market in Charlotte. Not for much
longer.

In just one month, Davidson will join the
South End staple in the task of converting
new locavores.

Coffee on Saturday, April 1252 at at 8 pm
The three members are Lana Sims,’08,
_ Lewis Beard’07 and Hall Carey: ’07, Al

~ three played in bands during high schoo

and enjoy writing music. Sims commented:
‘that. Beard and he.are:big fans of each.
other’s: music,“so it works out. well%In |
the album, Sims sings, plays the piano and 7
‘plays the accordian. Beard sings and play:
the. guitar. Carey; a prominent member ‘of.

