4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 16, 2008

Poet, 1 writer and activist Sonia Sanchez Judged the Vereen Bell Writing Contest
and read from her work last week. She is pictured here with the winning writers.

Theme, from page 1

“We looked for topics that were explicitly
international, that highlighted other cultures,
that went beyond classroom activities to gen-
erate interest from the campus community
more broadly and that presented enough sub-
stance for nine months of programming,”
Perillo said.

By having groups draft proposals together,
and requiring them to identify a set core of
individuals, Dean Rusk and RLO hoped to
promote a shared understanding of each
hall’s focus and mission.

“We were really not trying to make the
process arbitrarily harder,” said Dean Rusk
Director Chris Alexander. “We wanted to
encourage groups to thrash through the pre-
liminary planning and sort out what exactly
their idea is.”

The experience of the past year made
Alexander and Perillo aware of the need to
avoid a disconnect between how different
student conceive of a hall’s function.

“We hope that by forcing groups to have
these conversations on the front end we will
be able to start next year with fully commit-
ted students and more clarity and unanimity
within the group,” Alexander said.

While Dean Rusk sponsors the concept of
themed halls and evaluates and funds pro-
posals, it will not actively guide the activities
of the halls.

“We provide them with some budgetary
support, but we’ve told them that we neither
intend to give you marching orders, nor
should you feel compelled to make every-
thing that you do link up with a Dean Rusk
initiative,’ Alexander said. ““We want to see
the groups take ownership. We want to
empower them to be creative in exploring
these themes.”

The four groups have already developed
substantive ideas on what programming
might look like in the year to come.

The global water hall, for instance, will
examine water issues in Switzerland,
Myanmar and Sudan within the context of
four major units: access, culture, politics and
conservation.

“Given the context of the drought, we all
really wanted to do something involving
water,” Daniel Tart ’11, a hall participant,
said. “The challenge was making it interna-
tional.”

In an effort to simulate the lengths many
people go to in accessing water and simulta-
neously publicize the group’s focus, hall par-
ticipants will spend a week only using water
collected from a faux water hole—a hose
faucet to be exact—at the Eco-House on
North Main Street.

The Eco-House is itself a form of themed
housing for students concerned about envi-
ronmental awareness and conservation.

The global water hall hopes to work in

coordination with other organizations, such
as the Enivornmental Action Coalition and
Eco-House to assess and promote water con-
servation efforts on campus.

“We really want to emphasize that this
movement towards sustainability can take a
variety of different forms,” Tart said. “Water
conservation is one of them.”

The international women’s hall will study
the role of contemporary women throughout
the world.

Specialized monthly themes will structure
this exploration; likely topics involve the
relationship of women with the arts, religion,
politics, reproductive health, body image and
poverty.

“A lot of people are unaware of some of
the challenges women face internationally,”
said Margot Zipperstein °11. “We want to
promote a discussion of these issues in a
responsible manner.”

Within the monthly units, the group plans
to address women’s issues in a particular
region or country. “We see these topics as
growing out of each of our individual inter-
ests,” Zipperstein said.

Given the number of proposals submitted
this year, RLO and Dean Rusk wil! both con-
sider expanding themed housing in years to
come.

“When we first talked about revamping
the selection process, my biggest concern
was that people would look at these more
demanding requirements and say ‘I don’t
have time for that,’” Alexander said. “I was
pleasantly surprised.”

Perillo hopes to explore such possibilities
in a substantive manner.

“Given what I’ve learned, early on in
September I will engage SGA, the RLO
office and other students to discuss the
implications of expanding themed halls
beyond Duke,” she said.

Still, concerns remain about the logistical
challenges of such an expansion.

“Growth has to be careful and well-
planned,” Alexander said. “If we eventually
have the demand and budgetary and human
resources to support those halls, I would cer-
tainly be happy to see an expansion. What
matters to me most is continuing to fine-tune
the process so that the students who do live
in the halls have the best possible experi-
ence.”

The themed halls represent an opportunity
for the Dean Rusk Program to engage its
mission in an organic manner in which stu-
dents themselves generate international con-
tent on campus.

“We take our mission to be an institution-
wide one,” Alexander said. “I want Dean
Rusk to be a catalyst that helps students
become active participants in their interna-
tional education. To that end, I think these
internationally themed living environments
could be one of our most effective tools.”

Nicaragua, from page 3
milking and cattle herding. Bunting learned
many things from the stay.

“It showed me how much work ethic the
community has and how that is valued with-
in the community.” Bunting said, “The stay
really showed me the importance of these
values as well as the importance of commu-
nity. 1 am thankful to have been invited to be
a part of that.”

“In Nicaragua we were
beat down and broken by
the suffering we saw but
also set afire and motivat-
ed by the incredible love

and hope we saw at

won
- David Baker

David Baker ’11 was also deeply moved
by his experience in Nicaragua.

“In Nicaragua we were beat down and
broken by the suffering we saw but also set
afire and motivated by the incredible love
and hope we saw at work.”Baker said, “On
this Journey I came alive and strive everyday
to live that life back here at Davidson.”

Emcee and participant Felix Fabiny *11
ended the presentation with a description of
what the trip ended up doing for the group as
a whole.

He stated that although life is in the
process of how the trip impacted the team.
The trip “taught us to be alive and realize
that we are a part of a world that is very con-
nected. Our actions do matter in all aspects
of life,” he said.

Fabiny ended by stating that the journey
taught them to share life in many ways, espe-
cially through a common Christian faith.

“WALL, from pase
ignal. :

_ « This new feature will provide a variety
of benefits for the school.

The online streaming and podcasts will
‘now give alumni, parents, perspective stu-
dents, faculty, staff. 2

’The Davidson community and world-

‘wide listeners now have the opportumity t to

jog on and listen.

“eI am elated. about. this next step in

WALTIGIO’ s history and in Davidson’s

history,” Bussey said. “If any student is on

a semester abroad then they are just a

mouse click away from connecting to

WALT. DJs can now play or talk over the

radio with more enthusiasm because they

represent... Davidson College student
radio.” '
Right now WALT has about 40 DJs and

25 shows. However, any Davidson student

has the opportunity to create a program on

WALT, provided they submit a legitimate

idea to the executive board.

Whether it be to discuss politics, social
issues, sports or everyday life at Davidson,
almost anyone can attain a time slot with
the radio station as long as they abide by
the-. regulations @' of “the” Federal

Communications Commission.

2 The first major podeast. will. be a live:

_broadcast. of Battle of. the Bands. in. th

Bussey believes Battle of the Bands will
_now.be bigger and more spectacular than
“ever because of the increased publicity that
the bands will get via the online streaming. °
“1. want to thank ITS, the media board,
“Jim Nash and WDAV for working with me:
-and the radio station to broadcast. WALT to_

the world,” said Bussey.
‘Now that the world can hear WALT, we.
“hope students will take advantage. of this
‘chance to have. their voices heard so tha
they can make a change in the world,

& PR Ti Plate
Sot dior e te wh te
SERBS setae

PORES. CRAIA, Yn ROR
Ee i Be hee wre?

‘ee

-Get the latest news stories, not just on Wednesday!

-Comment on stories!

-Stay honest and blunt with our web-onl Blogs!
-Need to get away from Davidson? Check out the
exclusive “Outside the Bubble” section!

-Post on Message Boards!

-Vote in weekly(ish} Online Polls!

interested in wrtiting for The Davidsonian Online?

e-mail:

hite@davidson.edu

