THE DAVIDSONIAN

Arts & LIVING

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 19, 2008 7

Professor Tonya Clay opens fun, provocative exhibit

By Cara WooDROOF
Staff Writer

To celebrate her work as both professor
and artist, the art department is holding an
exhibit of Tonya Clay’s work in the Van
Every Gallery until April 16. Clay has been
at Davidson for almost two years as Visiting
Assistant Professor of Art, and she will leave
Davidson at the end of this semester.

Last Thursday, the gallery held reception
marking the opening of the exhibit, in which
visitors viewed Clay’s creative and intrigu-

es

ing works, all of which were produced dur-
ing her time at Davidson..In her speech at the
opening, Clay answered visitors’ questions
about her work, her growth as an artist and
her time at Davidson. She explained to visi-
tors the many ways that being a mother con-
tributed to her work. She stated that the thing
she would miss most about Davidson was
the love of all the people on campus, sup-
portive fellow faculty and students who were
hungry to learn.

Clay said that her first art teacher was her
father, who taught her how to draw on yel-

Part of Clay’s exhibit, “Russian Landscape with Church of the Bleeding Christ”

WORK IN DAVIDSON
THIS SUMMER

Summer Employment
in the Library

The Library is now accepting
applications for student
summer workers.
Positions are available
in all departments.

Interested students

should contact:

Jean Coates,
Library Circulation
Office, ext. 2332

jecoates@davidson.edu

cg

low lined paper. The lines helped guide her
drawing, but she did not use them for long.
As she matured as an artist, she developed a
unique style. Her father asked her, “Why
don’t you paint flowers?” Clay found that
even when she painted flowers and used
sunny day colors, the final product was still
what many people would consider “scary.”

Clay describes her paintings as a snapshot
of what is happening in both her conscious
and subconscious mind. Indeed, the exhibit
is titled, “Mindscapes in a Multiplied
Moment.”

Philosophically, she recognizes that
human beings are vulnerable from birth,
immediately faced with mortality, not know-
ing where or when death will come. People
cannot know the future. One listener clari-
fied, “So beauty is not always pretty,” and
Clay agreed. “It’s not always comfortable,”
she said.

Her paintings include images of human
body parts, especially eyes and ears. She told
attendees that the sense organs are our inter-
face with the world.

Other recurring images include trains on
tracks, flowers, swing sets, houses and build-
ings. All images appear to be floating in
space, and the positions, colors and overall
composition of the images defy normal
logic. The floating appearance gives the
paintings the feeling of ideas, which is exact-
ly what they are.

Clay hopes that by opening her mind for
viewers, they will open their own minds in
new ways. Maybe the paintings can even
help us cope with an unpredictable and
frightening existence. It is rare that one
encounters images that capture so rawly the
core emotions and ideas that characterize
one human being. A viewer must ask “Are

similar emotions and ideas somewhere deep
in me?”

In spite of their sometimes befuddling
themes, the paintings are aesthetically beau-
tiful. The colors are bright and bold. Figures
seem to dance off the large canvases into the
space in front of the viewer. Clay uses
impasto, a technique in which the coat of
paint is so thick that one can see the brush or
painting knife strokes. She used both acrylic
and oil paint in the exhibited paintings.

Many viewers especially enjoyed her
painting “Eliminating the Obstacle.” At first
glance, the painting has almost a light-heart-
ed, toy box appearance. A bright purple fig-
ure with an elephant head and multiple
human arms and legs dominates the canvas.
A train comes down a rounded track, appear-
ing to be suspended in air. At the same time,
flowers float about in the foreground. Semi-
translucent images of horses appear to the

right side of the canvas. A blazing red brick

wall dominates the left.

One has to concentrate on Clay’s paintings
for a few minutes to apprehend fully the dif-
ferent images. What also confounds the eye
is the translucent quality of the images; they
seem transitory, made of spirit only.

In “Dream Time,” green foliage and blue
skies thrill the viewer at first glance. In the
right foreground, a large human ear lies on
the ground. A ladder reaches up to a human
hand, plucking a leaf from the foliage. The
ear and the hand are connected by a flesh-
colored cord. The overall image is serene
and suggests human thought and dreaming.

The bright colors and blissful images are
like stepping into a beautiful daydream, and
the confusing, disturbing elements force the
viewer to stop and consider the nature of his
or her existence.

Wonderful week of music

By CAROLINE Woop
Ants & Living Editor

Music lovers at Davidson never have to
scrounge for entertainment, but the weekend
of March 28 will be a particular boon to
those with a passion for fine performance,
whether from local performers or esteemed
international musicians.

That Friday, Davidson College
Presbyterian Church and the Friends of the
ee

/ photo
Volinist Prunaru will perform next week
Organ will continue the “Organ at Davidson”
series with their second annual Bach
Birthday Bash.

March 21 will mark the 423rd birthday of
Johann Sebastian Bach, the most esteemed
composer of Baroque music, including
works for choir, orchestra, piano and violin:
concertos, sonatas and cantatas; and a host of
other pieces.

Bach’s fame as a composer was surpassed
in his lifetime by his fame as an organist, and
DCPC hopes to honor this legacy with a cel-
ebration of his music on their recently refur-

bished Wicks organ, complete with brand-
new pipes, facade and console. The organ
now accompanies the DCPC choir and con-
gregation.

To hear the organ in action, weekly
Sunday worship services are broadcast at 11
a.m. on WDAV-FM, Classical 89.9.

The evening will include performances by
six local organists: Susan Talley, Adam
Ward, Patrick Pope, Bill Rainey, Stephen
Vogel and Lewis Deaton. Each has been
asked to play some of their favorite Bach
pieces, so you can be sure that their perform-
ances will be inspired.

The concert will take place at 7:30 p.m. in
the DCPC sanctuary and will be followed by
a reception. Entrance is free, but donations
are accepted.

That Saturday, Davidson will host a very
different but equally enriching performance
by celebrated Romanian violinist Liviu
Prunaru, currently a professor at the
Menuhin Academy in Switzerland and
Concert Master of the Royal Concertgebouw
Orchestra in Amsterdam.

Prunaru has.been honored in a number of
esteemed competitions, including the
Rodolfo Lipizer International Violin
Competition in Italy and the R. Molinari
Violin Competition in Switzerland, and has
been featured with such prestigious orches-
tras as the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, the
London Symphony Orchestra, the Belgium
National Orchestra, Westdeutsche Sinfonia,
the Athens Philharmonic Orchestra and the
Juilliard Symphony.

The audience will have the pleasure of
hearing Prunaru perform Tartini’s “Didone
abbandonata,” Beethoven’s “Sonata
Kreutzer,” Korngold’s “Much ado about
nothing” and Grieg’s Sonata Opus 45,
No. 3 in C Minor.

The concert will take place at 7:30 p.m. in
Tyler-Tallman Hall; admission is $20 at the
door for community members and free for
students.
