THE DAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NoveEMBER 18, 2009

KATHLEEN VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

Last week, Barber Theatre morphed into
a tospy-turvy wonderland, where life became
“Curiouser and curiouser” from the moment
little Alice tumbled down White Rabbit’s
hole.

Director Samantha Karlin 10, a theatre
major, “became re-enraptured with the story
Alice and Wonderland in the fall of 2008,
when [her] studies abroad in London led
[her] to take a weekend trip to Oxford, the
birthplace of said tale.”

She resolved to someday direct a
theatrical version of Lewis  Carroll’s
masterpiece. Just a year later, her dream
came true. Alice’s adventures hopped from
the pages of a book to the stage of a theater
through the craftsmanship of the Manhattan
Theatre Project, under the direction of André
Gregory.

“The most important part of this, for me,
was figuring out what this world known as
“Wonderland’ was: what is this place Alice
falls into?” Karlin said. “What is this place
that all these crazy characters reside in?”

She gleaned inspiration from pop-art
and comic books. “[These] inspired the set,
costumes, and lights in terms of color scheme
and general appearance,” she said. With the
help of Josh Peklo, former technical director
for the Yale Repertory Theatre, and fellow
theatre major Nick Jennison 711, the sets
and lighting soon sparkled with the magic of
Wonderland.

Actors galloped, hopped and tumbled
over a stage-sized open book whose pages
formed the set’s floor and backdrop.

Hannah Jordan ’13 thought the overall
effect was marvelous “The set was really
cool. It added a lot of depth to the play,” she
said.

eee Varied. lineup of classical andi
that ‘will provide a festive introduction. te the

this year’ Concerto Competition.
The concert will open. with two concertos
in which competition, winners Jeffrey Roth
*12.and_ Stephen Westerfield. 710 “will be
highlighted at the show, The third winner,
Stephen Vogel.711, will perform his ongan
piece at Christmas Vespers on December
Roth, a/ pianist; will. be- featured.
the «first. movement ” of” Beethoven’ s Piano
Concerto Noy4, This concerto was the § first
to start ‘out.with the soloist. playing -alon

said Roth. Earlier concertos traditionally had
an. orchestra introductio before the soloist

ARTS

“Alice in Wonderland,” the classic tale by Lewis Carroll, came to life in a performance directed by Samantha Karlin ’10.

The inhabitants of this fantasy world also
dazzled the senses. Karlin admits, though, that
there were difficulties with characterization.
“[It] was a challenging process because the
20-something characters were to be portrayed
by only six actors, so it was our job to figure
out ways to make these character changes
clear, distinct and exciting,” she said.

Each actor switched among a diverse
variety of characters through expert
manipulation of different voices and
mannerisms. While masks and costumes
enhanced the effect, transformations derived
their success from each actor’s skillful
versatility.

Many familiar with Disney’s tame
adaptation of Carroll’s rollicking story
found their minds reeling at last weekend’s
fantastical performance. Alice’s practical
nature contrasted sharply with the absurdities

CourTNEY TOBE
Staff Writer

Last Thursday, Duke Family Performance
Hall transformed into the small, southern
town of Maycomb, AL through the Montana
Repertory Theatre Group’s interpretation
of “To Kill A Mockingbird.” The one-night
performance was a part of the C. Shaw Smith
and Nancy K. Smith Artist Series. Harper
Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird is one of the
most beloved books in American literature.
Director Greg Johnson’s artistic vision
successfully captured the essence of Lee’s
tale and allowed it to come alive on stage.

The plot revolves around the life of Scout
Finch, a passionate and feisty tomboy, and
her family’s direct experience with prejudice
in their small southern town. Throughout
the play, Scout, her brother, Jem, and their
friend, Dill, face the challenges associated
with growing up. They learn that they must
come to terms with the harsh realities of a
cruel adult world.

Helping them along on their journey is
Scout and Jem’s honorable father Atticus
Finch, who patiently teaches his children
the values and morals they need to become
respectable adults. The family faces harsh
criticism from other town-members as Atticus

of Wonderland’s inhabitants.

Actress Samantha Krusi ’13 played
the title character. She communicated the
7-year-old’s curiosity as well as her tenacious
insistence upon sense in the midst of
nonsense. The rude creatures of Wonderland
constantly jolt Alice’s confidence in her own
cultural refinement and good manners.

Alice’s orderly view of the world
wavers under the pressure of the illogical
Wonderland. While buoyant of spirit and
occasionally amused by the antics of the
creatures about her, Alice’s nerves gradually
fray. She feels increasingly lost and alone in
her wanderings, all the way from the Mad
Hatter’s tea party to the Red Queen’s croquet
game.

Alice’s adventures, for all their absurdity,
probe much more sober themes, such as
identity formation and the search for reason.

defends Tom Robinson, an innocent black
man, in a rape trial that divides Maycomb.
The story itself is enough to touch any
audience, but the Montana Theatre Group’s
adaptation only magnified the audience’s
reaction. The set was very simple: it focused
only on the outside of the Finch’s house and
the inside of the courthouse. Despite its sparse
nature, the set effectively channeled the inner
dynamics of a small town and revealed the
intimate nature of Maycomb County.

Director Greg Johnson’s
artistic vision success-
jully captured the essence of
Lee’s tale and allowed it to
come alive on Stage.

The costumes, though simple, greatly
contributed to the development of the
characters. Scout’s overalls were often only
fastened on one side, confirming her playful
personality, and Atticus’s cream suit set him
apart from the other men who wore dark
attire in the courtroom scene. This costume
choice symbolically illustrated how Atticus’s
beliefs about racism and prejudice set him
apart from the other men in Maycomb.

The actors exuded talent. Heather

Because Alice’s physical size constantly
fluctuates in Wonderland, she struggles with
her identity and cries with frustration,“Who
in the world am I?”

The play also toys with the notion that life
is simply an insoluble puzzle. Bold and lively
dialogue sharply exposes the absurdities of
the English language and society through
riddles, puns and games of logic. While the
imaginative splendor of the play enchants the
child, its social satire and delightful wordplay
challenge the adult.

“* Alice’ has been a huge learning
experience for me, as I hope it has been for
the entire cast,” Karlin said. “In the end, Iam
very happy with how the production turned
out and am very proud of my actors and my
design team. They really helped make my
vision come to life.”

‘Mockingbird’ offers timeless lessons

Schmidt’s portrayal of Charles Baker Harris,
who is lovingly referred to as Dill, stole the
show. Her mix of comic timing and profound
understanding allowed her to capture
effortlessly the essence of the character and
win the audience’s heart. Kathleen Conry
was also very effective as Mrs. Maudie,
an elderly woman who provides helpful
narration, motherly insight arid comic relief.

Though Tom Robinson’s trial remains at
the plot’s center, the play also covered Scout,
Jem and Dill’s fascination with Boo Radley,
a mysterious neighbor. The children’s playful
misadventures give the audience a small
taste of the youth and innocence that so many
Americans have grown to love and admire in
Lee’s characters.

Overall, the play leaves a strong and
resonating message. Johnson did a great job
of recognizing the power of Lee’s theme and
his interpretation captures it effortlessly. He
also effectively displayed the timeless nature
of “To Kill a Mockingbird.”

“On June 11, 1960, To Kill A Mockingbird
was published. On January 20, 2009, Barack
Obama was inaugurated as the forty-fourth
president of the United States,” Johnson said.
“As we present Harper Lee’s remarkable
story, we reflect on the incredible fifty-year
journey our country has taken since the
book’s publication.”
