THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS
Injury-plagued Wildcats fall 14-8 on

the road to Lehigh Mountain Hawks

_ JOHN MorGAN
Staff Writer

The women’s lacrosse team ventured to
Bethlehem, Pa. over the weekend to take on
the Lehigh Mountain Hawks. Coming off a
four-game win streak, the deep and experi-
enced home team outlasted the ’Cats 14-8.

For the first 27 minutes or so, Davidson
remained in contention on the scoreboard as
each Lehigh strike was matched with a Wild-
cat offensive effort. On the back of a season-
high three unassisted goals by Haley Cook
°10, the team kept the margin within three
with three minutes left in the first half.

Devastated by injuries and with a limited
bench, the ’Cats then began to show signs of
fatigue. Before the play broke for the half,
the Mountain Hawks snuck in three goals
to extend their lead to 9-3. Still, Davidson
maintained close contests in ground balls and
shots taken throughout the first half.

Control slipped in the opening minutes
of the second period, as Lehigh notched four
goals in the first ten minutes and four more in
the second ten. Their relentless offense wore
down an overworked Davidson defense that
gave up 17 shots while only attempting six in
the half. The Mountain Hawks also took the
ground ball advantage, 19 to six.

Before Jen Crawford ’10 broke the scor-
ing drought with 3:40 left in the game, the
damage had been done by the 17-3 Lehigh
lead. It was a grueling, challenging matchup,
but it provided the ’Cats with a thick dose
of quality competition. Michelle Pav ’10
continued to post solid numbers between the
pipes, snagging eight saves in this matchup.

Although the Mountain Hawks claimed
the majority in draw controls, 15 to nine,

the Wildcats did not falter in their effort to
maintain possession. The team snatched 20
ground balls in the game, a season high that
can only bode well for the future.

With the experience and preparation
gained from the Lehigh loss, the ’Cats will
continue their action in the Patriot League at
Navy on Apr. 4. The Midshipmen are reeling
from a two-game losing skid, setting a must-
win situation for each team.

Through these matchups in the heartland
of lacrosse, the team seeks to bolster this
year’s resume. Considering the obstacles and
injuries they have faced thus far, the ’Cats
should come out of their tough schedule as a
much-improved squad.

aon or return to school in an

Golf finishes 15th at Furman Tourney

PETER CosTA
Staff Writer

The men’s golf team came into this
weekend’s tournament, the Furman Intercol-
legiate, having not played an event since a
9th place finish at the Wexford Plantation In-
tercollegiate on February 23-24. On March
2-3, the Lonnie D. Small Classic in Buies
Creek, N.C. was cancelled due to inclement
weather.

There was more of the same this weekend
in Greenville, S.C, as the 54 hole event was
rain-shortened to 36 holes. The Wildcats’ in-
ability to get any tournament rounds under
their belt for nearly a month may have been a
factor, as they finished tied for 15th with the
University of Rhode Island.

The Wildcats as a team had rounds of 309
and 317 on the 7,000 yard Par 72 track. Indi-
vidually, Michael Saari ’09 took top honors

“%

ss

_ y aa

for the Wildcats with a two-day total of 154
(t-35). One shot behind Saari, was Jackson
Taylor ’12 who finished with 155 (t-39). Tay-
lor turned in the best round of the weekend
for the Wildcats with a day one 75.

Following Saari and Taylor, Bobby Urso
*11 shot rounds of 77 and 81 to finish in a tie
for 66th. Rounding out the top five for the
Wildcats, David Fowler ’09 and Adam Le-
wicki ’11 finished in a tie for 84th and 111th
places respectively.

Playing on their home course, Furman’s
Austin Reeves and Daniel Bowden dueled
it out in a sudden death playoff for the in-
dividual title. Reeves, who fired a course re-
cord 66 on day two, defeated Bowden in the
playoff.

Rounding out the top five individuals
were: Garrett Medeiros (Wofford), Chris
Kennedy (North Florida), and Drew Weaver
(Virginia Tech). The top five team finishers
were: East Carolina (595), Furman (596),
Virginia Tech (596), North Florida (603), and
Old Dominion (609).

The Wildcats hope to improve on this fin-
ish when they head to Huntington, W.V. for
the Marshall Invitational on April 3-4.

WEDNESDAY, ApriL 1, 2009

ll

Women’s Tennis vs. Appalachian State
Tue. @ 3 p.m.
Covington Courts

‘Winners of four in a row, the
Wildcats enter the week as one
for the hottest teams in the
Southern Conference. The ‘Cats
look to continue their hot streak
as they conclude another big
week of matches against Socon
rival Appalachian State.

Outside the Den

MLB

Atlanta Braves @ Philadelphia Phillies
Sun. @ 8:00 p.m., ESPN

The defending World Champion
Phillies begin their title defense
against NL East Rival Atlanta.
Phillies ace Cole Hamels will
miss the season opener with an
inflamed left elbow. The Braves
look to rebound from a tough
2008 campaign and once again
assert themselves as contenders
in the NL East.

Spartans tame Men’s
Tennis; Cats fall to 5-10

Myers ’09 and
Hefter ’11 claim
singles victories

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Despite the inclement weather, Davidson
faced UNCG on Saturday indoors at Knob-
loch Tennis Center. Davidson’s Southern
Conference record declined to 1-3 on the sea-
son and their overall record went to 5-10.

The match kicked off with exciting
doubles play. At the number one spot, the
match was split. Davidson took the number
two doubles spot with an 8-6 victory by Scott
Myers ’09 and Calum Gee 712. The duo tal-
lied their fifth doubles win of the season.
Unfortunately, UNCG sealed the doubles
point with an impressive 8-1 victory at the
number three spot.

Two Davidson players captured singles
wins on the day. Myers registered a stel-
lar come from behind victory at the number
three spot. After dropping the first set 6-3, he
would go on to win the second set in a 7-6
tie-breaker and win the third set by a score
of 1-0 after his opponent, Arsel Kumderell,
retired. This win raises Myers’ single wins
to seven on the season, tying him with Gee
for the team lead.

Following a rocky three game skid, Arie

Calum Gee 42 teamed with Scott Mey-
ers ’09 to earn the ’Cats a point with an
8-6 victory in No. 2 doubles vs. UNCG.

Hefter ’11 rose to the occasion and netted his
fourth singles win on the season by scores of
7-5, 6-7 and a 10-6 super tie-breaker. Heft-
er’s points still left Davidson three short as
they fell by the score of 5-2.

Davidson hosts Elon Wednesday at 3 p.m.
for their fifth Southern Conference match of
the season.
