THE DAVIDSONIAN

a, =

aa<> 2 *

News

SGA continues business
SGA website, Commons discussed

CRITINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

During its weekly meeting last Thursday,
the Student Government Association (SGA)
received Shauna’h Fuegen, a representative
from ITS. Fuegen wanted to gather feedback
from SGA regarding the change from Clean
Access to Bradford.

The change was made because Clean
Access was not effectively checking for
patches and viruses on Macintosh comput-
ers and Bradford would be more comfortable
for most students. In addition to this, ITS is
working on improving the wireless system,
and they wish to receive information via
email from students who are not getting cor-
rect wireless access in their rooms.

Following the ITS representative, Chip-
per Jones °12 took the floor to talk about
the Building and Grounds Committee. This
committee is working with the creation of
new dorms that will allow the college to in-
crease the number of students. The first draft
of the plan will be presented in November,
and in January the final draft will be present-
ed to the Trustees.

After Jones short statement, Ben Car-
ey’12 came in for the final vote on the Char-
ters for the Davidson Microfinance Club and
Gamut Dance Company. The charters were
passed with no votes against.

Once the vote was over, Meikaela Zwie-
ryznski’ 10 presented a proposal for a “Stress

Management Event” that is planned to take
place during the time right before final exams
in the Lily Gallery.

This event will provide an alternative and
sustainable study space to what is currently
available on campus, as well as supply stu-
dents with healthy snacks. SGA is currently
trying to find organizations to co-sponsor
this activity.

Zwieryznski also introduced the topic of
the SGA website. She met with representa-
tives from ITS in order to fully explain what
SGA wants in their website. ITS was very
supportive and agreed that there should be a
personalized student page containing news
and other channels of communication be-
tween the college and the students.

This webpage would also contain a more
organized calendar that can compile all the
events on campus. In addition to this, SGA
also wishes to have all the information for
grants, study abroad, classes and other pro-
grams available in this website.

The last topic addressed during the meet-
ing was that of some freshmen concerns on
Commons. Faheem Rathore’ 12, head of the
Auxiliary Services Committee, brought up
some suggestions that he had received from
the freshmen class, and they will be properly
addressed.

Some of the conerns will be impossible
to satisfy due to the fact that there is not
enough space in Commons to add espresso
and smoothie machines, or a sushi bar.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009 3

shato by Bill Giduc

College Republican debaters (left to right) Ryan Gough 710, Andy
Jones '10, Reade Jacob 10 and Jenner Gibson ’11 discuss health-
care reform during Thursday night’s debate in Tyler-Tallman Hall. De-
baters for the Young Democrats included Chris Marsicano ’10, Walter
Kucera ’10, Katherine Johnson ’10 and David Lloyd ’13. The debate
was also co-sponsored with Engage for Change, the Eumenean Soci-
ety and the Roosevelt Insitute and included a section of panel debate
and rebuttals, as well as town-hall style questions and answers.
“This was important because this is an issue that will affect all of us,
and we all should be prepared with the knowledge about the deci-
sions our congressmen and women are making and be able to hold
them accountable,” College Republicans co-chair Ellen Thomas said.
“Providing students with a school-wide debate allows them to see
that this issue matters to their classmates and friends, and that it’s
important to get involved in the discussion,” added Young Demo-

crats President Allice Phillips.

Union Board, OLAS, Library host Halloween events

BRENNA KELLY
Staff Writer

Every year, Davidson holds some very
unique Halloween traditions and celebra-
tions, many of which begin tomorrow, Thurs-
day October 29. Tomorrow evening, chil-
dren from the Ada Jenkins Center, a local
nonprofit organization where many David-
son students volunteer, are invited to trick-
or-treat on the Davidson freshman halls. The
children of Davidson faculty and staff will
also be joining them.

Hall counselors and students work hard
to prepare their halls for the tricker treaters,
investing in hallway decorations, costumes
and candy to pass out.

Additionally, there will be a number of
activities for the children to participate in
on the Belk Lawn. Student members of the
Canterbury Episcopal Fellowship will be ac-
companying the children while trick-or-treat-

We'd Like You to"

im’s career-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

him recognition throughout NC aod among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publicatiog consistent!
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Jadge, Jim Fuller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the =
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills, With 32 years of courtroom experteace,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent ow crtztinal
conduct of others.

Jin and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Comamnity Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planing Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY + BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANSING

Int
Bn
LAW FIRM

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 « www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

ing, and will be passing out other treats to the
kids as well.

Elizabeth Marie Melchionna, the Epis-
copal priest at St. Alban’s Episcopal Church
in Davidson and the Episcopal Campus Min-
ister on Davidson’s campus, said that “the
Canterbury students are looking forward to
spending some time with children from the
local community.”

On Friday, October 30, the Little Library
is hosting an event called “Ghosts in the Li-
brary.” Davidson storyteller Sauni Wood,
and retired Davidson professor Gill Holland,
will be telling their favorite ghost stories in
the Rare Book Room at 8 p.m.

Two Davidson seniors, Sarah Adams and
Aimee Nieuwenhuizen, will also be reading
a spooky story. Davidson librarian Sharon
Byrd said, “It’s primarily for Davidson stu-
dents, faculty, and staff (stories not really the
kind that small kids would enjoy).

“ This is the first year we’ve done this,

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, bas spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law incloding, contact preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
ag Well as zoning, Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attemey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family bomeplace, Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years 23 a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and in bas
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL [XIURY
REALESTATE « WILLS & TRISTS

but we hope it’s a success and will be the
‘First Annual Ghosts in the Library’ event.
Since we can’t have food in the Rare Book
Room, we’re going to be handing out treats
as people leave. No tricks; we promise!”
Boylston continued.

On Friday, students have the opportunity
to visit Scarowinds though the Union Board
Special Events Committee. The themed
amusement park (normally Carowinds) will
be open on Halloween night, and offers
eight haunted mazes, three “scare zones”, a
“dreadful new show,” in addition to regular
rides that will be open for the night.

Finally: the big night. On October 31,

aside from students taking advantage of an
excuse to dress up and have a good time
at the Halloween parties down the hill, the
Union Board and OLAS have organized fun
Halloween events for Davidson students.
OLAS will also be hosting an event on

rin, which acts similarly on neural path.”

this question, Smith: will construct. a large.

ly, on cocaine; but later, he will examine. 5 :
é to reach a quest which motivates him both.

Epon: overcome. an addiction, To explor ;

health, reduced anxiety. sand improvements

Halloween, in the Union 900 room at 7pm.
To commemorate Dia de los Muertos, or,
Day of the Dead, OLAS has invited Ale-
jandro Galvez to come to Davidson.

Galvez is the founder of Grupo Painalli,
a Charlotte-based group dedicated to the re-
counting of Pre-Hispanic customs.

Jesse Johnson ’12, president of OLAS,
said that Galvez “will do a brief demonstra-
tion of the Aztec Dance known as La Danza
Azteca, a ritual performed to honor the forc-
es of the universe. Each movement in the
dance represents certain elements, like water,
earth, air, the soul, fertility and the sun.” In
addition to a wonderful performance, OLAS
will also be serving the attendants free pan de
muerto, or, “Bread of the Dead.”

Take advantage of all the celebration:
Davidson has to offer this week, and have <
Happy Halloween!

following question: Does having <
mate who does ‘not take drugs reduce your
_ own drug intake?
«> Smith understands that addiction i

~ ments have taken place; He hopes, howeve

side” effects are “improyed_ “éardiovasculat.
