THE DAVIDSONIAN

80 different oat vendors - for phon
ervice, sO each phone vendor i is going t
address. that.j incoming: message one. par:
enlar way, just.as our system is goin
cs) address‘2,200 phones. and e-mails and :
texts, Basically, we choked the system to.
what it contd. takes? The test. was suc =
essful but revealed. several areas whete
the system can be fine-tuned to effectivel
meet campus need :
a result. of this test,
Poli will now ‘be. able. to. decide whai
aspect of the system it wants-to emplo}
ased on the emergency: situation. “Now
that I know-it works, next time’I can ate
tually make. a conscious “decision to only

Babin

=

ne e concern yoiced by some students, ,
nvolved the numt

sage,

ae noted tha

letting it happen. and then, writing.’ a pr
ym. that will prevent this: ‘from bappen

ht this $ point,
logate and contact peo; le:

cer warned that the proces
and. opl 2need to continue

oh Ge Pk

on waiting for thé public addres

Hise tg Pee

: maou see the threat then you get awa}

Students and guests participate in a group panel discussion on “The Faces of Homelessness” hosted by United

Community Action last Thursday in the 900 Room.

Rave 11-11 a success, thanks to seminar

Maria FACKLER
Guest Columnist

Last Wednesday, Nov. 11, Vail Commons |

was the site of Davidson College’s first flash
mob: a rave, complete with glow sticks and
electronica, in the “Dark Side” of the room.
Rave Eleven Eleven had been publicized
widely—and enigmatically—for the two
weeks leading up to the event.

Posters were strewn around campus (even
tucked into napkin dispensers), announce-
ments appeared in the Crier, a puzzling side-
bar allusion popped up on the front page of
The Davidsonian, a Facebook page appeared
devoted to the dance (with friend requests
and updates to boot) and someone chalked
the campus overnight to publicize it.

But important information was withheld:
Who was hosting this so-called rave? Would
it be in the middle of the night? On Patterson
Court? Since details were not forthcoming,
rumors began to circulate: it was a fraternity
event, a Ben and Jerry’s stunt, a sociology
experiment. But very few students sussed out
the true identity of the event planners —the
twelve students of English 492, the seminar
on Gossip.

As part of their semester-long investiga-
tion, these students were asked to imagine
a group project that could reveal something
about the operations of gossip in a closed
community such as Davidson’s.

On the first day of class, they studied
YouTube videos of flash mobs: events in
which a large group get together in public all
of a sudden and perform some choreographed
activity, only to disperse just as quickly and
unceremoniously. Since “flash mobs” are of-
ten arranged via email, the idea of organizing
one at the college dovetailed nicely with the
students’ concerns with networking and the
circulation of gossip on campus.

As 11/11 approached, Sarah Bennett,
Mery] Breeden, Kiki Diven, Nikki Gutierrez,
Stacey Helmerich, Lizzie Hyland, Brenna
Kelly, Elizabeth Lacks, Billy LeBas, Katie
Miller, Amanda Whitton and Laura Zulliger
worked overtime to organize the rave and
drum up the gossip necessary for its success.

The rave had to have a patina of mystery:
it had to be alluring in order to get people
talking and curious enough to show up at the
appointed hour. With everything in place—
thanks in no small part to the help of Dee
Philips, Director of Dining Services at Com-

mons— all that was left to do was email the
chosen flash mob with the details.

On November 10, the twelve gossip stu-
dents sent out a cryptic missive that included
instructions such as, “When the music stops
your moves should too. Act like nothing hap-
pened and go back to your tables (noncha-
lance is the goal...)’ The email signature—
“You know you love me. Xoxo”—with its
allusion to Gossip Girl, was the single clue
as to the organizers’ identity.

Though the classmates sent it only to
their immediate friends, the information
spread rapidly. Freshmen with no discernible
links to the seniors in the course knew the
full details of the flash mob and were plan-
ning on participating.

With email and Facebook messages get-
ting bandied about with viral speed, the inter-
est seemed to grow exponentially. As students
filed into Commons, the line was abuzz with
expectation and excitement. People lingered
in their seats, in no hurry to leave in case they
missed the action.

The room was packed to capacity and,
according to the CatCard reader, the number
of people dining in Commons jumped from
332 students at 6 pm to over 600 at 6:50 pm.
“Tt’s the first P’ve seen it this busy with no
seats. I didn’t believe it when they told me
to come and look,” Executive Chef Craig
Mombert remarked.

At no other time, other than Thanksgiv-
ing Dinner, has Commons hosted so many

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009 3

students in such a concentrated time period.
The mob was working its charm and it hadn’t
even begun yet.

Meanwhile, the class members respon-
sible for all this energy were understandably
nervous. What if no one got up to dance with
them and they were left alone, in the middle
of Commons, fist pumping to “Sandstorm”?
And for two whole minutes that would surely
pass like treadmill minutes?

The indignity of it could have been com-
pletely mortifying. But as soon as Hyland and
Kelly gave the cue and dropped their empty
trays, hundreds of students poured over into
the “Dark Side” to dance frenetically amidst
the tables.

As our class looks back on the flash mob,
what the event tells us about gossip at Da-
vidson might not, finally, be as important as
what it tells us about our community more
broadly. To see hundreds of students check
their egos at the door with their umbrellas
and backpacks and let loose for two minutes
was to see an exercise in solidarity.

Though it might seem a Pollyanna-ish
notion, perhaps the idea we can take from the
flash rave is that such enthusiasm, harnessed
to other agendas, can be a kind of inspiration
capable of taking us outside of ourselves and
raising us to action. If we can be this efficient
at organizing gossip, what else can we do?

Maria Fackler is an Assistant Professor
of English and teaches the Gossip seminar.

Interested in writing for
News in the Spring?

contact kelilley or cawood
for more information and stay tuned
for an informational meeting

