4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

News

Giving thanks at Davidson

One student reflects on four years

LIE COKER
Staff Writer

I’ve had the pleasure of writing a list of
small things to be grateful for in the David-
sonian for all four years here, and now I’m
completing it with my final installment. Here
are some ideas to remember all the good parts
of our college before you sit down to munch
turkey. Enjoy, and Happy Thanksgiving!

1. Fun out at the Lake Campus.

2. Interacting with brilliant and complicated
individuals at every turn. Davidson people
are different and wonderful.

3. Enjoying a Starbucks vanilla frappucino
from a vending machine at the bottom of the
library or Belk.

4. Laughing at a professor’s sense of hu-
mor— whether it was funny or not.

5. Letting loose on the dance floor at the
court.

6. Late-night quesadilla runs to the Outpost
or Union with friends.

7. The Honor Code: enough said.

8. Staff and food at Commons/Wildcat Den/
and Union Café.

9. The friends we made as freshmen.

10. The friends you reconnect with as se-
niors.

11. Knowing that there is always someone
looking out for you at Davidson. They will
watch out for you like they are part of your
family.

13. The abundance of community service op-
portunities offered here at Davidson. We like
to help people.

14. Marveling at Dance Ensemble.

15. Basketball games.

16. Spending time making connections with
other students through CatsConnect.

17. How patient and helpful our hall coun-
selors and RAs are every time we lock our-
selves out, get seriously ill, or just need in-
formation.

18. Paint Your Own Pottery Night.

19. Taking a class you never thought you
would enjoy. And then enjoying it.

20. Getting the opportunity to take a class
with a “special guest” professor.

21. Applauding the amazing theatre produc-
tions.

22. Going crazy with your own eating house
or fraternity. Or ones that you don’t belong
to at all...

23. Spring Frolics.

24. The elegance and excitement of Red and
Black Ball.

25. Hearing the acapella groups croon to us.
26. Finding those hidden and relaxing spots
on campus we can’t get enough of.

27. The sheer bluntness of a lot of professors,
staff and students alike.

28. Listening to people speak in different
languages as they glide down the halls of
Chambers.

29. Never having to walk that far. Truly.
Compared to other campuses.

30. Every single quirky detail that Davidson
days encompass.

You’re a wildcat, which means, it’s a great
day. Hang in there. Live it up. Enjoy life.
Don’t forget to breathe. And remember: even
when you don’t love Davidson, there’s a lot
to be thankful for.

Cork. It actually does grow on trees. To keep a natural balance
between manufacturing practices and the environment, Birkenstock
supports using renewable resources like cork.

Balance and support? Just like a pair of our clogs.

Now in stock at

WHIT MILLER’S
Shoe Store & Repair

122 North Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115

704-664-4109
fax: 704-660-6461

Receive $20 off purchase price with this ad
Expires 2/1/10

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

» Bill Giduz

As part of the Vann Center for Ethics dedication, NFL Commissioner Roger
Goodell spoke Monday night in Duke Family Performance Hall about his
career and the role of ethics.

“or thirdhand * exposure. to an individual «
with active. tuberculosis: ‘rarely, results in

fectious disease, the possibility of spread.
0 testing, The Health Center stresses tha ing it through casual contact is low??-the ’

students should wait to be contacted. abou

11/14/09 16:53 hrs Vehicle Accident
Davidson College student contacted Officer via officer cell phone. Complainant called
requesting assistance getting a college owned vehicle she had been driving out of a ditch
near the end of South Thompson Street in Davidson.

The officer advised the student that even though it was a college owned vehicle, her
accident was outside the jurisdiction of the Campus Police. The officer advised her that
the Davidson Town Police would be the agency investigating her accident.

11/14/09 13:30 hrs Suspicious persons
Officer was contacted on the officer’s cell phone and was advised of numerous juveniles
in the area of Martin Science building skateboarding. Several of the subjects had previ-
ously been warned to not skateboard on college owned property.

The officer found the juveniles to be disrespectful and taunting. He attempted to contact
all of the parents of the kids and had no positive results. Officer left messages for the
parents to contact the officer celt phone as soon as possible. The officer documented

the names, addresses and dates of birth of all juveniles and released them after advising
them that Davidson College was private property.

11/14/09 17:44 hrs Assist Fire

Officer received a call on the officer cell phone from an unknown caller in reference to
a lady choking on her food at the Baker Sports Tennis Complex. The caller also advised
that another person was calling the medic via 911.

The officer walked with her to the ladies room area. Davidson Fire performed medical
checks on the subject. Reporting officer learned that a doctor performed the Heimlich
maneuver on the victim five times before officer arrival. He stated that she spit up no
“plug,” but her airway was unobstructed. Medic 33 arrived and checked her out. Medic
33 transported her to Presbyterian Main in Charlotte.

11/14/09 23:24 hrs Alarm

Officer Combs was dispatched to 405 N. Main St., the Grey House in reference to
burglar alarm activation. Officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by Davidson
student stating that he had activated the alarm when he opened the door. He reported to
the officer that he was participating in the scavenger hunt and thought one of the items
may be in that building. Officer reset the alarm and secured the door. No further action
was taken.

11/17/09 00:21 hrs Fire

Officer while on routine patrol observed a fire at, 117 Patterson Ct. Cir. Upon arrival,
reporting officer observed about 30 students sitting around a campfire. The fire was in-
side an outdoor fireplace on the concrete slab behind the house. Several house members
advised that they have had these campfires five times a year for the last five years; they
advised last year it was approved by RLO. Several other house members stated that as
long as no one was drinking it was ok; reporting officer observed empty Coors Light
bottles of beer on the picnic table behind the fire. Two house members put out the fire
and most of the students left the area. Reporting officer stopped back approximately 30
minutes later to verify the fire was still out and the Davidson Fire Department was not
needed.

