ME AE Bi

Presidential Campaigns :

“STARE Ebon

the SGA, Union Board, ATC, UCA and SCC, Before then;

‘ whirlwind of campaigning will take place. Teis doubtful
“the Davidson. students’ will familiarize themselves. wi

-the plans and personalities of each candidate before: tl

_ election, Nevertheless, the campaign offers an opportunity

for us examine the state of SGA, Davidson’s: institutional

dentity. and the progress of several on-going projects.

“The Davidsonian. will host a debate for the SGA
presidential candidates, _Meikaela Zwieryznski10 and.
Darrell Scott10, this Thursday at:7:30 p.m. in the 900_

»room.-In.advance. of the debate; we would liketo outline”

_the issues we hope the candidates will address, both on,

- Thursday and during the almost-week-long campaign...”

_ This academic~ year began. with an emphasis: on

uistainability. » Throughout the year, ‘departments . and

: tudent-groups ° have-taken many: steps:to reduce: the i
_College’s: carbon footprint.2The candidates’ ought, to

F address the role of SGA/in promoting student awarene

of sustainability efforts and exploring potential solution
. Just as Davidson has followed the sustainability trend

_ the economic conditions in the world beyond exit 30 have

. myriad effects on the College. As the school faces budge

A new : ' student committee searching for innovativ

AYS 10 | streamline expenditures and increase efficiency.

fe are very: much. interested. in how: the ‘presidential

“candidates - would. involve, SGA-in facing the school’s

lifficult adjustment to a shrinking econom

ne of the most provocative SGA ini

_ year examined Davidson’s. median, GPA in comparison,

_ with peer institutions, The findings Confirmed the recurri

complaints of many. “students—GPAs. were, significantly

ower than those-at competing schools. SGA can play an
important role in surveying and conveying the academic

_coricern f students—how , do . these» two. candidates

“ propose. to assess. the academic perience at Davidson «

“and adjustments s students would like to see?

Finally, we hope the candidates. will propo

_examine Davidson’s institutional identity. ‘As the College

istives to create: a more diverse © community and attr

ee : | direction.: :

The Dabidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX UBL ORTA LIBERTAS ©

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
” ‘Managing Editor
Kate Kelly
A News Editors
, Katherine Johnson & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
_ Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors
~Jennifer Errington & Jennifer Gambrell
‘ é # “Yow! Editors
Alex Greening & Josh Tobin +.
Sports Editors ™
Mike Frongelio & Logan Lewis ~~
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Kelsey Lilley
Business & Circulation Managers *
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright.
“ey Online Editor
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Section Copy Editors
Stephanie Jones & Nami Patel

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters@o the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Advertising rates are
available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

HAYDEN HI
Guest Columnist

The American government, it is often said, is a nation
founded on compromises. The art of compromise, a skill
adroitly applied by statesmen from Washington onwards,
seems, however, to have fallen out of vogue. According to
the ostensibly contemporary Wikipedia, “In the U.K., Ireland
and Commonwealth countries the word ‘compromise’ has
a positive connotation (as a consent, an agreement, where
both parties win something); in the USA it may rather have
negative connotations (as both parties lose something.”

Whatever notoriety ‘compromise’ earned as a politically
weak maneuver is probably due in large part to the inflated
ideologies of recent party politics. Despite the relative
proximity of Democratic and Republican thought when
compared on a global scale, and despite their shared
inheritance of the classic liberal tradition, neither can ever
seem to admit that they are more alike the other than they are
different.

During the recent election, liberals seemed to be fond of
swearing they would ‘move to Canada’ if McCain triumphed,
and one conservative I talked to spoke of buying guns in case
they needed to revolt against the coming oppressive liberal
regime. I speak so much of compromise because there is
an arena where its calming influence is sorely needed—a
significant American populace has suffered too long for their
rights. I speak of the roughly five percent of Americans who
are gay.

During the recent election, perhaps the second most
closely-watched result nationally was that of California’s
Proposition Eight—the Marriage Protection Amendment.
Without bringing my personal beliefs about the question to
the table, it is apparent that the fundamental crisis at stake
was one of personal liberty versus popular belief. Gays would
like to marry — but now they cannot (in California) due to the
religious (not political) beliefs of the majority.

What is required is a moderate dose of two of the
founding principles of the United States of America: the
rule of the majority with the preservation of the rights of the
minority, and the separation of church and state. I propose a
basic enough solution, which I hope I am not the first to have
thought of, because I find it very simple, very elegant and

Tue DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
JANUARY 28, 2009

A novel proposal for equality

very obvious.

Marriage, as a word, should be removed from the political
jargon. If marriage is a religious sacrament—as most will
well agree that it is—it should be governed by the individual
religious entities, which may independently decide whether
to approve of same-sex couples. Do a find-and-replace on
government documents, replacing ‘marriage’ with ‘civil
union,’ and thereby preserve the societal rights gained by
married individuals at the state level. Civil unions will be
gender-blind.

Under this proposal, conservative religious groups need
not feel threatened— homosexuality will not be forced upon
them. They may still preach against the sins of the flesh and
so on as much as they like, until the metaphorical trumpet
sounds and they are proven either right or wrong in their
judgment of others.

Complete separation of church and state will be
achieved, insofar that a religious institution—marriage—
will be removed from the political sphere, while retaining
the recognition that the union of two individuals provides
important, even integral social benefits (thus the granting
of civil unions). The bywords of our time—freedom and
change— will be achieved.

I think that both political parties can agree on the
maximization of self-determination, and that is exactly what is
achieved by this proposal, whilst recognizing the capacity for
each congregation to decide what is acceptable in its particular
religion with regards to homosexuality. Furthermore, this
arrangement allows for the application of one of the central
tenets of conservatism: minimal governmental intrusion into
the lives of its citizenry, an idea that the last administration
seemingly failed to recognize at all.

This is a change that will need to be achieved at the level
of each individual state, per the Tenth Amendment. It is,
however, a commonsense proposal, and one that cannot be
accused of being persecutory or too difficult to administrate. I
hope that others will join in conversation about this particular
issue, and that reconciliation and compromise allow the
American people to quell this unseemly quandary once and
for all in a desirable and progressive manner.

Hayden Higgins ‘12 is undeclared. He is from Danville,
Calif. Contact him at hahig gins @davidson.edu.

; Bush’s legacy wrongly disparaged

For the past eight years, a large
nay numer of individuals on the left have
confused constitutionally supported
dissent with disrespect and hatred.
Free, unhindered dissent is vital in
__ democracies. It keeps those in power

aware that other sides to an issue may
. exist, and it forces our government to
_ defend its decisions.
Such dissent may evaporate
| during the next four years, however,
as the media has fallen head over
Bossy DesPain heels for the current administration.
Their objectivity should forever be
questioned after their performances this election cycle. What
has transpired over the last eight years has not been dissent
for the sake of improving the country, but malice for the sake
of humiliating a man.

George W. Bush did not live up to my hopes as President
of the United States. He abandoned the free-market, let the
government grow like Jack’s beanstalk, refused to defend our
sovereignty by allowing our borders to remain insecure and
let his Public Relations departments run our wars.

Regardless, the man deserves credit for preventing
another terrorist attack on U.S. soil because, undoubtedly,
the Islamo-fascists tried. He also deserves credit for backing
Gen. Petraeus all the way to victory in Iraq.

The Iraqi people should forever be indebted to the United
States and George W. Bush for removing the psychopathic
and torturous regime of Saddam Hussein and then rebuilding
and protecting their country.

In spite of his failings, President Bush should not have
been treated to the scorn and venom of the left. He was
subject to thousands of harsh caricatures insulting his speech,
mannerisms and intellect (never mind the fact Bush has
degrees from Yale and Harvard).

He was also the subject of a hypothetical assassination
movie, “The Death of a President.” As a sidebar, just imagine
if amovie was made about the assassination of Barack Obama.
The left. might actually be in favor of keeping Gauntanamo

Bay open in order to house the producers.

After 9/11, individuals like Howard Dean questioned
whether Bush planned or at least allowed the terrorists to
succeed. The left vilified Bush for the Iraq War, ignoring the
fact that both the Senate and House (including their liberal
components) voted to authorize the war.

The left demanded war crimes trials for the use of
waterboarding, even though Democratic Rep. Nancy Pelosi
questioned earlier whether harsher interrogation treatments
should be used.

The left was also fond of calling for impeachment
hearings against Bush, although his only crime was the fact
that he was President.

In spite of his failings, President Bush
should not have been treated to the
scorn and venom of the left.

Unfortunately the left had to get in one more crude gesture
before George W. Bush left the Office of the Presidency. As
he entered the inaugural stage at the Capitol for the swearing
in of Barack Obama, part of the crowd began chanting, “Na,
Na, Na, Na, Hey Hey, Goodbye.”

Their disrespect for the man and the presidency was
abhorrent, though not surprising. These are the same people
who liken our soldiers to murderers, picket Marine Recruiting
Stations and cheer for the successes of the enemy. They
naively think being contrary is courageous.

Their actions are not dissent, but disgusting. And where
was Barack Obama? Where was the man of “hope and
change” and “post-partisanship?”

Where was the man who a few moments later would say
that the “time has come to set aside childish things?” Notably
silent, which is sad because the left’s disrespect is not just for
Bush, but for the very office Obama now occupies.

Bobby DesPain ‘11 is undeclared. He is from St. Louis,
Mo. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
