THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Obama’s stimulus has fallen short

Do you know what $787 billion
dollars buys? Apparently, Joe Biden’s
“wildest dreams” and unemployment
for nearly a tenth of the country. In
late September, Joe Biden spoke
to the country’s governors and
declared, “In my wildest dreams, I
never thought [the stimulus] would
work this well.” Some dream. Since
the stimulus became law, over 2.7
million jobs have been lost. 49 of
the 50 states have seen a decrease in
jobs. Even though North Dakota, the
Peace Garden State, saw an increase
of 1800 jobs, every other state lost jobs. Overall, the national
employment rate is at 9.7%. This rate even excludes over 3
million workers who have been forced into part-time jobs due
to the sour economy. Even worse, there is less and less of an
opportunity for the unemployed to be hired. At the passing of
the stimulus, the new hire rate was at 3.2%. The most recent
data puts the number at 2.9%. The bottom line is that the
Vice-President’s “wildest dreams” are a nightmare for the
rest of the country.

Long-lasting job creation does not
occur at the brutish hands of the
federal government, but in the minds
of entrepreneurs.

What has happened? President Obama guaranteed the
country that this stimulus would work and unemployment
would not rise above 8%. He pledged to create or to save
at least 3.5 million jobs by the end of 2010. Currently he is
short by roughly 7.5 million. Sure the President has a year
left, but according to the chair of the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers, Dr. Christina Romer, the stimulus has
run its course. She also warned that even at the end of 2010,
the country could still expect its unemployment to be at least
10%. This, of course, is not good news for a President already

suffering in his foreign and domestic policies. What happens
if his touted economic policy fails? All he will have is a
Nobel Peace Prize.

Was the stimulus poorly planned? Not according to Joe
Biden who said it “doesn’t reflect a lack of design; that was
the design.” And herein lies the rub. It was not the fact that the
bill was rushed through Congress without any thought, but
that the thoughts were all wrong. Long-lasting job creation
does not occur at the brutish hands of the federal government,
but rather in the minds of entrepreneurs. Instead of creating
an environment in which a business could flourish, the bill
made it toxic.

The one business that has been good throughout is the
government. As Americans have been cutting back, the federal
government has been getting fatter. Since December 2008, the
federal government has added over 25,000 employees. Why?
A bigger bureaucracy needs more bureaucrats (and I am not
just speaking of the Obama czars). As the government tries
to control more and more of the country, it requires a larger
workforce. As the government grows, so does government
spending and with it the federal debt. Every dollar borrowed
from the private sector to finance the government, means
less is available to the entrepreneur. Of course, it is not only
massive debt that weakens the road to economic growth,
but also the current taxes and regulations. As high as taxes
and the amount of Federal code are now, what do you think
happens with the passage of the Health Care bill or Cap and
Trade? Both of those bills are a massive expansion of the
federal government that will only sink the economy further.

We are living in a time when market slumps lead to
cries for the government to do something. Invariably, the
something is never to remove government but to inject more
into the system. Why does market failure mean government
intervention? No one delivered a more ridiculous remark
than George W. Bush who stated he “abandoned free-market
principles to save the free-market system.” The free-market
system does not need saving. It needs the government to get
out of the way.

Bobby DesPain ’1l is a biology major from St. Louis,
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.

When “too big to fail” is too big to exist |

On Politics Here is an __ interesting
consideration: can a company
become so big and so profitable,
that when it falls on hard times, the
ripple effect of bankruptcy would
be too disruptive to the economy?
So disruptive that the company
would need to be “bailed out” by the
government to stave off the ensuing
multiplier effect of economic
hardship?

It is a given that nobody wants
the government to have to take a
stake in private sector companies.
Last year’s crisis, however, was the quintessential example
of the government’s role as the last resort stabilizer. It is, after
all, one of two inherent duties that governments are required
to carry out for their citizens: promote stability and security.

In the interest of preventing another similar crisis down
the road though, one must look at ways to eliminate the
risk of private institutions affecting more than just their
customers, competitors, and employees. There are definitive
demarcations between a private institution that is large and
profitable, large and not profitable, or too large and potentially
damaging to the economy.

Examples of each of these cases abound. Goldman Sachs,
JP Morgan, and the other major banks on Wall Street are
examples of large and profitable private sector institutions.
Many airlines of the past two decades, however, were large
and yet not necessarily profitable. United, Continental
Airlines, US Air, and Delta, to name just a few, all entered
bankruptcy protection even while operating. Still others, such
as Pan Am and Tower, failed entirely. Finally, companies like
the insurance giant AIG or auto manufacturer General Motors
nearly failed when poor leadership and decision-making
led the staple institutions to the precipice of total collapse.
Not only were these companies harmed finanically, their
executives’ schortcomings negatively impacted suppliers and
car dealers as well, a reality that led to the creattion of a giant
ripple effect through the entire US economy. Everyone, from
the workers to consumers, was affected.

Because the largest private institutions are clearly not
impervious to outside economic effect (Exhibit A: Lehman
Brothers), the effect that these companies can have on
other institutions, both public and private, requires that the
government assume some regulatory purview.

Finally, there is the question as to whether these huge

Scott MattHews

companies would best serve the American consumer as giant
corporate conglomerates or as smaller independent regional
branches. Consider the break up of AT&T years ago, when
the government stepped in, citing federal anti-trust statutes.
The break up worked, increasing mobile phone competition
nationwide and leading to increased service quality and lower
consumer costs. Perhaps, this could be one way to counter the
natural economic highs and lows that exist as a side effect of
a capitalist economy. In today’s world, the influence of the
largest institutions is too great. The definition of “too big” is
focused on the monopoly rather than good or troubled. It’s
time that the standard be revised.

There are definitive demarcations
between a private institution that is
large and profitable, large and not

profitable, or too large and potentially
damaging to the economy.

The point is not to say that all large private economic
powers need to be broken up in the name of innovation and
capitalism, but that a break-up could potentially minimize
the effect of collapse of one smaller company than one huge
troubled institution with national implications. The “good”
companies like Apple, IBM, and Cisco for example have
no need to be split up. At the same time, troubled national
institutions like GM perhaps could be more efficiently
handled as smaller, more controtlable private companies.

Now, as the federal government is the majority stockholder
of multiple “giant” institutions like AIG and GM, a break-up
in the name of competition, capitalism and stability should be
considered. The break up would need to be comprehensive,
addressing the fundamental problems of the companies. Take
GM: any play would need to address issues with the unions,
product development, and quality control. Above all, now
is the time, as the Obama Administration works to reform
and re-shape our country, to reform and to re-shape the
relationship between the private sector and the government.
Now might be the time to look at new alternatives besides
bail-outs to create a more stable and safe economy for all the
people.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich,
CT. Contact him at samatthews @davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009 9

CHARLIE REITER,

| Mauricio Simms,

nsumption.” Placing these students on the same level, as
holars and athletes has been a long time coming as these:
dividuals deserve fall recognition for their hard work and

is necessary: to examine their schedule, Their season
om late, August (the Sunday night before-the fall:

schedule) until mid May, Mostalso keep their liverand motor,
skills sharp i in the offseason with a full summer regiment.
‘Their weekly schedule is just. as as tough if not tougher than

, which is basically the main ‘event of the week-an
‘runs from Friday before class through late Saturday nigh

frintage streaker apparel
‘captain, the Pay

