THE DAVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
DECEMBER 9, 2009

CourTNEY TOBE
Staff Writer

Last Saturday evening, Patterson Court
traded its regular schedule of themed parties
for a classy affair with a cause— Warner
Hall’s Red and Black Ball. The night’s icy
temperatures did not prevent Davidson
students from putting on their favorite
little, black dresses and festive Christmas
ties to support AIDS awareness. The event
benefitted the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric
AIDS Research Fund and the Davidson in
Mwandi program.

The 5th annual ball was as successful
as ever. The event raised over $10,000 and
increased awareness of the prevalence of
AIDS not only in Africa, but in our own
backyards as well.

“Mecklenburg County has one of the
highest percentages of AIDS patients in the
US.,” said Betsy Lyles ’11, one of Warner’s
service chairs. “This year we wanted to focus
more on raising awareness.”

Betsy and her fellow service chair, Hannah
Bohbrink ’11, began planning the event last
spring and devoted countless numbers of
hours to the process this fall. Although most
of the responsibility fell upon Lyles and
Bohbrink, they had the entire Warner House
behind them.

“Every member of Warner put at least
three hours into it,” said Lyles.

The House’ service and dedication paid
off as over 350 students, faculty members,
and people from the Davidson community
came together to dance, eat dessert and
dedicate their time to a good cause. The
live band, Sunset Drive, was a huge hit. The
band, which has played at every Red and
Black Ball, lived up to the high expectations
with a spectacular performance. Their soulful
renditions of “Twist and Shout,” “Signed,
Sealed, Delivered” and “Ride, Sally, Ride”
enthusiastically encouraged everyone to
forget about their two left feet and tear u the

ARTS

Warner Juniors enjoy Red and Black Ball, an event held last Saturday in the Lilly Gallery that raised money for AIDS research.

dance floor.

“] thought it was awesome! The band was
great and there was a lot of fun dancing,” said
Red and Black Ball first-timer Mike Waters
710. “I liked it because of the benefit. We
were having fun, but we were also helping
out a good cause.”

Warner Hall member Krista Jackson *12
also enjoyed several aspects of the night.
“I Jike the live band and seeing everyone
dressed nicely and supporting a good cause,”
said Jackson. “The desserts are also a
plus.” Banana pudding, pretzels covered in

eppermint bark, a and_ brownies

were just a few of the many desserts that
slowly lured people off of the dance floor.
The desserts were donated from La Patisserie,
Harris Teeter and Acropolis, and several were
even made by Warner girls themselves. Not
only did the overwhelming number of treats
taste amazing, but they also provided a small
dose of the holiday spirit

The silent auction was a perfect way to
take a break from the dance floor, let your
stomach settle from the desserts and support
the event’s two charities. The auction,
which was one of the biggest fundraisers of
the night, included donated items such as

student photography, a football signed by the
Carolina Panthers and jewelry.

There are currently over 33.4 million
people in the world who are infected with
HIV/AIDS, and more people contract the
disease each and every day. The only way we
can prevent millions of people from dying by
this disease is to raise awareness and do our
best to find a cure. Warner Hall’s Red and
Black Ball takes a step in the right direction.

Super Mash Bros. mix it up with late-night concert

AMELIA MONTGOMERY
Staff Writer

In a world where the top forty chart
changes on a daily basis, there’s no efficient
way to listen to so many different songs at
once, and who has the time or resources
necessary to create compilations? Fortunately
for the world, Super Mash Bros., who played
to a crowded 900 Room Friday, November
20th, has done the dirty work for us.

Self-described as “Girl Talk’s hot cousin,”
this Los Angeles-based band, comprised
of Dick Fink and Nicholas Fenmore, has
produced two albums of “mash-ups,” which
consist of songs that blend together hits from
the past two decades. Released in July 2008,
their first album “Fuck Bitches, Get Euros”
includes mixes of E-40’s “Tell Me When to
Go” with Ludacris’s “Stand Up” and Daft
Punk’s “One More Time” with Missy Elliott’s
“Lose Control.”

If song titles such as “Broseidon, Lord
of the Brocean” and “I’m Onto Something
(That’s What She Said)” don’t clarify their
target audience, their list of upcoming shows
should. They played University of Richmond
the night after Davidson and played Colgate
University last Saturday. Why cater to college
students? A few reasons might be that many
students download music off the Internet and
have a short attention span for longer media
forms. In fact, on their MySpace page, on
which their genre is also listed as “Electro/
German Pop/Healing & Easy Listening,” the
band posted a blog requesting suggestions

The cover art for Super Mash Bros.’s first album. The duo performs mash-ups.

from fans for songs to use in their second
album “All About the Scrillions.” After taking
their audiences’ requests into consideration,
the band finished the album and released it
last summer.

Many of Davidson’s athletic teams, from
the Women’s Field Hockey team to the Swim
Team, enjoyed the musical renditions of
Super Mash Bros.

“They were on our warm-up mix my

freshman season,” said Gray Robinson 712, a
field hockey player. “We play them at almost
all of our events off the field. You could
basically say the Field Hockey team loves
Super Mash Bros.” One of the contributing
factors to college athletes’ love for these
mash-ups is that their individual songs flow
together so that the album plays continuously,
without any delay between songs.

Casey VanTassell °12, a swimmer, also
enjoys the music. “Listening to Super Mash
is the best way to warm up!” she said. “Their
albums are like thirty minutes of the best
pump-up songs of the past few decades
strung together.”

When asked to describe listening to Super
Mash Bros. in a single word, Hannah English
712 answered, “exhilarating,” which seems
to set the perfect mood before a game.

Were the Super Mash Bros. as exhilarating
live as they are when blared through speakers
or headphones? The jury may still be out
on this question as the concert’s attendees
expressed varying opinions. Some loved it,
such as Madeleine Dick-Godfrey 12.

“The atmosphere was so incredible,”
she said. “All they did was play their tracks,
but people were jumping up and down and
absolutely loved it! Plus the guys in the
band were hot!” Others were impressed with
neither the Super Mash Bros. performance
nor their good looks.

“You could have pretty much listened to
their album and had the same experience,”
said Alex Hanken ’12.

Regardless of opinions on the level of
entertainment at their performance, the
general consensus of Super Mash Bros. at
Davidson appears to be love. For those who
have not had the pleasure of experiencing
“Girl Talk’s hot cousin,” both their Facebook
and MySpace pages contain a variety of links
to websites where their albums can be legally
downloaded for free!
