THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

‘Wildcats continue to struggle in SoCon

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson men’s tennis team continued
their losing streak, dropping three matches
this week.

On Wednesday Davidson took on No.
66 Elon and was shut-out 7-0 in Knobloch
Tennis Center. Hoping to turn things around
during the weekend, Davidson lost to
College of Charleston 5-2 on Saturday and
then dropped another road match to Georgia
Southern on Sunday by a score of 6-1.

Davidson began Wednesday facing their
third ranked opponent of the season. Elon
proved why they deserve to be one of the top
75 teams in the NCAA. Elon got off to a kill-
er start, winning all three doubles matches
and seizing the doubles point.

Eric Noble ’10 at the number one spot,
Scott Myers ’09 at the number three spot and
Arie Hefter 11 at the number five spot all
netted six or more victories in two sets of
singles play despite falling to the ferocious
play of Elon.

To kick off the road trip, Davidson
matched up against the College of Charles-

ton on Saturday. After dropping the doubles
point by losing two of the three matches,
Davidson also struggled in singles play, only
capturing two of the six singles matches.

“ Calum Gee 12 won his singles match
in straight sets by a score of 6-4, 6-4 at the
number four spot, registering his eighth sin-
gles win on the year. Gee is tied with Myers
with a team-high eight game win tally for the
season.

Overcoming a loss in the first set, Walker
Lyons ’11 netted a comeback victory in three
sets ending in a super tiebreaker by a score
of 3-6, 6-3, and 10-8. This win gave Lyons
his sixth on the season. Despite these strong
performances, Davidson fell 5-2.

On Sunday, Davidson traveled to States-
boro, GA. Georgia Southern also proved
to be a strong adversary as Davidson only
captured one singles win. Lyons won in tie
breaker fashion once again by a score of 1-6,
7-5, and 10-5, raising his season total wins
to seven and extending his streak to two
matches.

Davidson fell to 5-13 overall and 1-6 in
the Southern Conference. Davidson hosts
Wofford at 3 p.m today.

ok to
get back on track this week with home
matches against Wofford and Charlotte.
The ’Cats have dropped six in a row.

Navy blows past ’Cats in second half

JoHN MORGAN
Staff Writer

The women’s lacrosse team rode into the
heart of the lacrosse nation — Annapolis, MD
— on Saturday to play the Navy Midshipmen.
Following this year’s unfortunate pattern, the
’Cats held tightly in the first half, but couldn’t

Having Fun and

Children’s Services
Ambassadors - From summer

camp to parents night out, we are
looking for high energy, creative,
dedicated staff who love working with
young people to join us for the summer.
Help shape the great summer memories
of our youth and make some of your
own. Enjoy working hand-in-hand
through daily activities while looking
out for the welfare of our participants.
Call Becky Taylor at: 704-766-2222

, email: rtaylor@hffa.com

Making a Difference!

withstand their opponents in the second.

For the first 30-minute period, the game
fell into an intense bout of back-and-forth
scoring. Navy got things started, only to face
a response by Jenna Mugele ’12 in the third
minute, assisted by Jen Crawford ’10. After
a four minute span with two Navy goals,
Crawford notched a score of her own.

Lifeg Uards - Join our team of
aquatics enthusiasts who are dedicated
to providing a safe and exciting aquatic
experience for our members of all

ages and experience levels. Become a _
Lifeguard at HFFA and find a rewarding
opportunity with a flexible schedule!
Not certified? Sign up today for our
May certification classes and learn a
skill that will last you a lifetime.
Space is limited. Call Ann

hffa.com

104.766.2222 + 11725 Verhoeff Drive * Huntd
Visit Us Online at www.hffa.c

Callie Seymour ’09 and Mugele knocked
in Davidson’s other two first-half goals, the
latter again receiving the assist from Craw-
ford. With 41 seconds on the clock, Navy
made their final point of the period to bring
the teams into the locker room with the ’Cats
down 4-6.

The second half brought a three-goal
sweep of Navy scoring as the visiting squad
fell into another fatigue-induced slump. With
the game seemingly out of reach 4-9, Anna
Smith ’12 took the game into her own hands
during the middle of the half, netting her first
points of the afternoon.

Inside the 10-minute mark, however, the
Midshipmen turned up the gears and tallied
four more scores to put the match away 114
6.

In terms of shot attempts, Navy main-
tained only a slight advantage throughout the
game, taking 12 shots to Davidson’s nine in
each half.

The ’Cats displayed a sense of efficiency,
as both players with a pair of goals, Mugele
and Smith, worked their magic with only
three shots apiece. In goal, Michelle Pav ’10
kept her composure with four saves per pe-
riod.

Second-half ground balls again plagued
the Wildcats, who began to lose control of
possession as the game progressed. Navy led
the first-half margin 11-9 but dominated the
second period with nine pickups to David-
son’s four.

Contributing to the Davidson fatigue, the
Midshipmen refused to cease their aggres-
sion as they committed an extraordinary 23
fouls over the course of the game. The game
left the Cats beaten and battered.

With only one contest left in this swing
of road games — American University on Apr.
12 — the ’Cats will enjoy the prospect of re-
turning home for games next week against
Stanford and Duke.

The team will continue to face stiff com-
petition over the next few matches, but even
in its current losing streak, Davidson contin-
ues to show signs of improvement.

As last weekend’s games illustrate, the
freshmen have begun to integrate themselves
into the offense, enabling the team to widen
its opportunities despite a lack of depth.

Each game’s stat book highlights a dif-
ferent player’s performance, and if they all
click at the same time, results will follow. If
the ’Cats can just hold on in the second half,
future games’ scores will inevitably start to
even out.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

11

Women’s tennis
gets back on track
after win against
Mountaineers

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The women’s tennis team hosted .two
home matches last Wednesday and Friday to
begin their April homestretch. On Wednes-
day, the Wildcats lost a tough decision to
UNC-Greensboro 5-2.

For the doubles competition, Ali Gores
10 and Molly McDevitt ’12 won their re-
spective No. 3 spot, 8-6. No.1 seeded pair of
Virginia Berry ’10 and Michele Fanney ’09
played tough but ended up losing their deci-
sion to the Spartans in a tiebreaker situation,
9-8. UNC-G won 5-2 on the singles side, but
Berry and Samantha Galainena ’11 each won
their respective competitions.

Two days later, on Friday, the Wildcats
hosted cross county rivals, UNC-Charlotte.
The 49ers took a 4-3 decision over David-
son. Singles winners for the day were Berry,
Gores and McDevitt at the No. 2, No. 4 and
No. 5 spots.

Berry’s win was her ninth of her past 10
matches, while Gores and McDevitt each tal-
lied their eighth individual wins of the sea-
son.

The Wildcats got back on the winning
side, trouncing the Appalachian State Moun-
taineers 7-0 on Tuesday to move their record
to 10-10 overall and 5-3 in conference play.

siya

Baseball vs. The Citadel.
Fri. at 7:00, Sat. at 2:00, Sun at 1:00
Wilson Field

The Wildcats and Bulldogs
meet in an important Southern
Conference match-up at Wil-
son Field. Both teams enter the

* contest 7-5 in SoCon play. The
Citadel swept last year’s three-
game series from the ‘Cats. Matt
Webb ‘og leads the Davidson
pitching staff with a 2.42 ERA to
go along with a 2-0 record and
three saves.

Outside the Den

Masrers

The Masters
Wed. - Fri. on ESPN
Sat. & Sun. on CBS

Defending champion Trevor Im-
melman looks to hold off a field
that includes last year’s runner
up Tiger Woods who is return-
ing from a knee injury that cost
him most of last year. Woods
has won the event four times,
most recently in 2005, and is
coming off a tournament victory
at the Arnold Palmer Invitation-
al two weeks ago.
