2 THE DaAvIDSONIAN

> ——<_— ii a_»

- aan, a

News

_<-

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

wT ~ ~—— =

Acclaimed travel writer Doug Lansky challenges, “Get Lost”

Katie LovETT
Staff Writer

“The traveler sees what he sees. The
tourist sees what he comes to see.” This
was the theme of acclaimed travel writer
and nationally syndicated columnist Doug
Lansky’s lecture “Get Lost” on Monday in
the C. Shaw Smith 900 Room. Using a wide
array of photographs from his travels in
more than 100 countries, Lansky conveyed
his passion for exploring the globe and his
conviction that the most memorable travel
experiences are often those found off the
beaten path.

After graduating from Colorado College
and holding internships at “Late Night with
David Letterman,” “Spy Magazine” and
“The New Yorker,” Lansky declined a job
from “The New Yorker” in favor of hitting
the road for two years of travel. His big break
as a travel writer came with the syndication
of his humor-adventure column “Vagabond”
in 1995, Featured in over 40 national news-
papers including the Chicago Tribune and the
Charlotte Observer and with a readership of
over 10 million, “Vagabond” chronicled the
seemingly fearless Lansky’s global exploits
which included braving hotels in third world
countries, mastering white water kayaking in
Chile and pony trekking in South Africa.

Lansky is the author of the books “Last
Trout in Venice” and “Up the Amazon with-
out a Paddle” as well as the editor of a travel-
humor anthology, “There’s No Toilet Paper
on the Road Less Travelled.” All of these
titles hint at the travel writer’s sense of hu-
mor and passion for experiencing travel
in an unfiltered and uninhibited manner. In
other words, you won’t find Lansky trudg-

ing through lengthy tours of renowned muse-
ums or adhering to an itinerary replete with
mainstream tourist destinations. This veteran
traveler claims “there is no such thing as the
must-sees. It’s about taking your time and
enjoying the journey, not just getting to your
destination. Travel isn’t just about racking up
the passport stamps.” Using his slideshow to
illustrate his point, Lansky challenged the
audience to think about travel in a new light.
Case in point: for Lansky crossing the des-
ert on camel back in Africa was much more
memorable than snapping the cliché touristy
picture in front of Big Ben. “Think of things
you’ve always loved to do” Lansky encour-
aged. “Take a cooking course at the Cordon
Bleu in Paris, take a gondola driving course
in Venice, take as many authentic looking
types of transportation as possible, take in
Carnival in Brazil, try on fantastic costumes,
run from the bulls in Pamplona.” In Lansky’s
opinion, integrating yourself into a destina-
tion through the pursuit of your individual
passions will result in not only a better ap-
preciation and stronger understanding of the
culture, but also in organic friendships with
the locals.

Lansky also hosted a travel documentary
for the Discovery Channel/Travel Channel,
which earned him the opportunity to visit
the Ocean Dome, the largest indoor beach
in the world, located in Japan. Interestingly
enough this manmade beach complete with
crushed white marble sand and surfable yet
undertow-free waves is a mere 300 meters
from the natural beach. Although Lansky is
well versed in the wonders of the world and
has visited many touristy venues such as this
one, he said that “the best thing out there is
the people that you meet.” Travel is a subjec-

Career Service Career Fair

Noon- 3:00 PM

September 23th, 2009

te

Monday night in the 900 Room.

Travel writer and columnist Doug Lansky delivered his lecture entitled “Get Lost”

tive experience, unique to each traveler since
the mentality behind every carefully planned
(or not) international excursion depends on
what you are looking for. According to Lan-
sky, “it may be some place you’ve seen in a
postcard, some place from a movie, the most
picturesque town, a secret spot, the cheapest
beer, a souvenir to remind you where you’ ve
been, a new language or pushing yourself to
new heights.”

Rather than inspiring his audience and
then leaving them to navigate the globe
alone, Lansky acknowledged some of the
doubts that may arise in zealous yet inexpe-

rienced travelers. It may take some time to
adjust to trekking around the world with his
recommendation of only a 45-liter backpack
and a negligible wardrobe selection. “Travel
is a little bit like driving a car,” Lansky con-
cluded. “At first you’re terrible but pretty
soon you’ve got the whole thing going,
you’re working the gas and the clutch and
the brakes, and holding a Diet Coke between
your legs.” Adopting this mentality very well
may lead you to some outlandish encounters

See Lansky, page 4

PT 4 Se ee D = |
Union Atrium Wake, 3678 ate: Dy Seo
Employers
Amerkan Cancer Sodety
American Red Cross ;
Amy 09/11/2009 19:24 911 Hang-up Library
Bain & Company Officer was dispatched to a 911 hang up at the 24 hour room at the library. Of-
Bankers Life B Casuatty ficer checked the room and there was no one inside. Officer spoke to subjects
Davidson Housing Coalition working behind the desk of the library on the Ist floor and they advised that
Delonte Consulting everything was okay as far as they knew.
Farnidy Dotar « Lash Grow
First Investors Corporation » Navy 09/12/09 08:47 Illegally parked vehicle
- Gastonia, Gity of », Dur Towns Habitat
JET Program + Southern Teachers Agency While on routine patrol officer observed a vehicle parked illegally in a handi-
Kaplan Testing oe, UNUM capped parking area near Martin Ct. Hart, 104 Martin Ct. Dr. Reporting officer
ve vile Fag herman observed no handicapped identifiers on a black Honda. Reporting officer had the

above vehicle towed to Archers Towing.

- Western Southern Life

A Graduate Schools 09/13/2009 00:40 911 Hang-up 107 Dormitory Dr
_>-» Charlotte School of Law
« Mountain State University

« Richmont Graduate University

+ Savannah College of Art and Design

« Southern Baptist Thealcgical Serninary
“s UNCG -Bryan School of Business

+ UNCG Graduate Programs

« Universty of Georgia College of Business

« Vanderbiz Owen Graduate School of Management

+ Wake Forest Babcock School of Management

« Wake Forest Nclecda: Medicine ard Translaticna/ Soence

Officer was dispatched to a 911 hang up at Belk Dorm, 107 Dormitory Dr. Upon
arrival the officer checked the area and was unable to locate anyone in or around
the phone area.

09/13/2009 01:52 Fire 115 Patterson Ct Cir
Officer was called to Knox Dorm 115 Patterson Court Cir., in reference

to a discharged fire extinguisher setting off the alarm. Upon arrival the officer
checked the area and located the fire extinguisher on the 1st floor of Knox Dorm.
Davidson fire arrived to check the area and reset the alarm. The officer replaced

the fire extinguisher.

