2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kesey LILLEY
News Editor

Her first thought: “Thank God I’m
alive.”

Dr. Haleh Esfandiari was on the way to
the Tehran, Iran airport to fly back to the
United States after visiting her mother on
December 30, 2006 when her car was forced
to the side of the road. Three men jumped
out, brandishing knives, and began searching
through Esfandiari’s car and luggage, taking
her US and Iranian passports with them.

At first, Esfandiari believed that she had
been the random victim of a robbery. She
went the next day to get a new passport, but
quickly realized that the “robbery” was not
as it seemed.

What started as a “random” crime quickly
turned into a lengthy ordeal when Esfandiari
was arrested on charges of intending to over-
throw the Iranian regime. After her release in
2007, Esfandiari returned to the US to write
her book, “My Prison, My Home.”

An Iranian-American scholar, Esfandiari
came to the US in 1980 and taught at Prince-
ton University before becoming the Director
of the Middle East program at the Woodrow
Wilson Center in Washington, D.C.

It was this past summer that Anna Van
Hollen ’12 worked for her; Esfandiari’s visit
to Davidson was the result of Van Hollen’s
work on the behalf of Justice Dialogues, a
student-run organization that promotes dis-
cussions of issues regarding justice.

Back to 2007. Esfandiari became suspi-
cious of the “robbery” on her way to the air-
port while she was applying for a new pass-
port. She said that the questioning she was
subjected to was not standard; rather, she

News
Iranian-American scholar retells story of imprisonment

ae ~

ee Be

BEE

Dr. Haleh Esfandiari, an iranian-American s

holar and the Director of the Middle

East program at the Woodrow Wilson Center, lectured last Thursday about her im-

prisonment in lran’s infamous Evin prison.

was asked questions about her family, her:

husband’s religion and her salary. When she
received a phone call telling her to report to
a particular address, Esfandiari realized she
was being summoned to the Iranian Intelli-
gence Ministry.

After reporting for the first time, Esfandi-
ari was required to return for questioning that
lasted eight hours a day for eight months. The
reason? “To find out how the United States
intend[ed] to overthrow the regime in Iran,”
she explained.

Though Iranian Intelligence was not
worried about a direct U.S. invasion, it was
very concerned with the prospect of a “soft
rebellion,” or promoting the idea of a regime

change without playing a direct role.

Esfandiari explained that the interroga-
tors kept asking about a “hidden agenda” of
academics in the U.S.; they believed that the
U.S. government had universities like Har-
vard, MIT and Stanford at their “beck and
call” and intended to promote the idea of a
regime change in Iran.

After providing no intelligence to the Ira-
nian government, Esfandiari was served with
an arrest warrant on May 2, 2007. She was to
be transported to the infamous Evin prison.

“For a brief moment, I was paralyzed,”
she said. “I had read about people being tor-
tured in Evin, people being killed, people
disappearing. I was familiar with the notori-

|

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

,

ety of the prison.”

Esfandiari was allowed a brief phone
call to her mother, and was then transport-
ed, blindfolded, into a single cell. For three
months, Esfandiari was held in solitary con-
finement, in which she lost 20 pounds and
slept on a stone floor.

After months of the same routine, Esfan-
diari said she had accepted her fate.

“{I]f I started thinking about my life, I
knew I would fall apart,” she said. “I didn’t
want to give them the joy [of seeing me bro-
ken].”

On Sep. 2, 2007, Esfandiari was suddenly
given her passport and told to leave the coun-
try immediately, which she happily did.

Among the harsh conditions, Esfandi-
ari noted a few light moments. Once, while
under house arrest, four men broke into and
searched Esfandiari’s mother’s house before
taking her laptop. Upon finding wrapping pa-
per, they accused Esfandiari of using invis-
ible ink to secretly message the Americans;
her Skype phone used for video chatting, they
thought, must have been used to send coded
messages to the American government.

Despite being able to laugh at instances
such as these, Esfandiari looks back on the
experience with mixed feelings.

“T am in love with the flora and fauna of
Iran,” she said. “I’m also upset and disap-
pointed that they did this to me. [It leaves]
a bitter taste for me, but I think my love for
Iran surpasses [this experience].”

Esfandiari reflects on her experience
from a deeply personal perspective.

“TI learned to value and cherish freedom
and the rule of law. It is terrible to live in
countries where you are dependent on the
rule of people.”

Ndiaye brings questions of race in France to campus

JESSE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

Last Monday, Dr. Pap Ndiaye visited Da-
vidson to lecture about his findings on race
relations in France. After teaching for several
years in France, Ndiaye taught at the Univer-
sity of Virginia for one year, and then taught
at the University of Pennsylvania for three
years. He is currently teaching at the School
for Advanced Studies in France, with the ma-
jority of his work focusing on the history of
race relations.

His work concentrates on and questions
the history of blacks in the U.S. and in France.
Ndiaye is the author of several books, in-
cluding “Nylon and Bombs: DuPont and the
March of Modern America” (2007) and “The
Black Condition: An Essay on a French Mi-
nority” (2008).

Ndiaye explained that many observers
of race relations in France seem to have re-
cently discovered blacks. The French do not
collect statistics on racial minorities, claim-
ing themselves to be colorblind.

For example, when filling out forms,
there is no section to self-identify oneself as
black, as would be possible for an African-
American in the United States.

Ndiaye has recently stepped aside from
teaching history to look more in depth in
the issues presented for French blacks, the
once almost nonexistent group in France.
He mentioned that the black population in
France remained small up until World War
I (WWD), when there were only about 5,000
black citizens living in France, mostly in Par-
is. African American soldiers came to France
in 1917 and when the war ended in 1918,
many stayed.

Ndiaye explained that in addition to
WWI, in the 1960s the arrival of African mi-
grants and Senegal workers was encouraged
by agreements signed by the French. Thus,
by the mid 1970s, there were over half-mil-
lion blacks living in France. At this point, the

French closed their borders to non-European
migrants. However, in the 1980s, women
and children were allowed into the country,
encouraging a continued significant increase
in the black population in France.

Ndiaye then went on to talk about his
conviction that there exists no strong black
community in France. He interviewed one
French black child who stated, “I like black
Americans: they’re proud of who they are.
I'd like to visit America, but they have their
problems.” Ndiaye shared this sense on what
kind of impression some French blacks may
have of the United States’ African American
community. “The experience of race is not
the same for every black person,” he stated.

While the government in France might
be “colorblind,” the French-Blacks still face
discrimination. Many of them go to Eng-
land, Canada and even the United States to
find work.

After his initial research, Ndiaye wanted
to do a study, one that the French govern-
ment has never conducted. He fulfilled the
first quantitative study on black citizens in
France, with 13 groups of people consist-
ing of 1,000 persons each. He learned that
of those people, 581 of them declared them-
selves Black or “Mestizo,” a person of mixed
racial ancestry.

Ndiaye explained some of his data. He
asked the 581 self-identified blacks if they
considered themselves a minority, since the
concept of visible minorities is a common
expression used to designate persons who
aren’t considered white. However, 90.2 per-
cent of those he questioned did not consider
themselves a minority.

Ndiaye’s findings would suggest that 4%
of the French population considers them-
selves to be black. Of these individuals, 75
percent declare French as their background
and most of them have their citizenship in
France. Nineteen percent of the population
are what Ndiaye called “foreigners,” or non-
naturalized immigrants; however, Ndiaye

%

p

Pap Ndiaye, the author of “La Condition Noire,” gave a lecture on “Blacks and |

Blackness in France” on Monday in the 900 Room.

suspects that this number is most likely high-
er, as he felt that not everyone was honest,
due to fear of being deported. Six percent
of the population consider themselves of a
double nationality.

Ndiaye reported that 20 percent of French
black individuals have no education. A sig-
nificant number of black French citizens
have a low-paying job, estimated at about
45 percent, 35 percent for those of mixed
race. Ndiaye explained that even those who
have university degrees aren’t finding jobs,
and many of them resort to security jobs or
leaving the country, mostly due to discrimi-
nation.

When Ndiaye asked the 581 individuals
he was working with if they’ve faced dis-
crimination, 56 percent of them reported that
they have, whereas 19 percent reported that
they sometimes did. Discrimination in pub-
lic spaces has the highest rating occurrence,

with 62 percent reporting, followed by the
workplace, with 42 percent.

When a student asked Ndiaye if the
problem of discrimination is more vivid in
the United States or France he replied, “In
the 1920s African American soldiers mar-
ried French women without problems, which
would not have happened here (in the south-
ern States).”

Interracial couples are a common thing
in France, but Ndiaye does not consider that
to be the case in the United States. Ndiaye,
who is married to a white woman, told his
audience that when he would walk around
with his wife in the United States he would
get looks from those passing by, something
that does not happen in France.

Ndiaye is determined for French blacks to
be recognized officially, rather than remain-
ing an invisible population. “French blacks
want to be visible and inyisible,” he stated.
