4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Brad Gooch, author of “City Poet: The Life and Times of Frank O’Hara” and “Flannery: A Life of Flannery
O’Connor,” chats with seniors Bill Warren and Monique Mcintosh after a PBS filming session last Thursday.

Historian to address French race relations

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Next Monday, French historian Pap Ndi-
aye will visit Davidson to deliver a lecture
entitled “Blacks and Blackness in France,”
in which he will explore the complex and
frought conditions of being black in a na-
tion that does not officially recognize race.
The French government’s policy of refrain-
ing from officially acknowledging ethnic or

racial minorities dates back to the 18" cen-
tury, when leaders of the French Revolution
banished distinctions of race as an_impedi-
ment to their ideals of liberty, equality and
fraternity. Many historians and sociologists
point out, however, that this policy has ac-
tually been detrimental to the conditions of
minority individuals, leading to a culture of
discrimination in which blacks are an “invis-
ible minority” for whom few official mea-
sures can be taken:

Spring Break trip to Honduras

Passion for teaching, social tourism
combine to fuel service trip

CRISTINA BUSTILL
Staff Writer

Throughout the school year, Davidson
students are offered various opportunities
to take part in service projects during their
fall or spring breaks. The trips are usually
focused on reaching out to low income com-
munities or com-
munities that have
been affected by
natural disasters.
One of the new
Spring Break trips
offered this year is
the Honduras So-
cial Tourism trip.

The trip co-
sponsored by the
Spanish _Depart-
ment and Bilin-
gual Education for
Central America
(BECA), a non-
profit organization
based in Cofradia,
Honduras, created
to promote cultural exchange and afford-
able bilingual education. This organization is
powered by volunteer bilingual teachers who
immerse themselves in the community and
learn just as much as what they teach.

The trip began to take shape when Lau-
rence Birdsey ’04 contacted Professor Mary
Vasquez looking for students who would
be willing to work for him and plan a so-

“Our goal for the trip is to...
live there for a week, learn
about the people, do all we
can to help out and then
come back and share our
experience and insight with
other Davidson students.”

-Anna Stringfield ’ 11

cial tourism trip to Honduras, to help teach
English in public schools through the BECA
foundation. Vasquez asked Claire Petterson
10 and Anna Stringfield ’11, both Spanish
majors and passionate about helping others
learn English, if they would be interested and
they decided to take this project on and orga-
nize a trip for Davidson students over their
Spring Break.

“Claire and I decided
that this opportunity would
be perfect for us,” String-
field said. “Our goal for the
trip is to go to a low income
community, live there for a
week, learn about the peo-
ple, do all we can to help
out and then come back
and share our experience
and insight with other Da-
vidson students.”

Students who partici-
pate in this service proj-
ect will be volunteering
in classrooms, working on
a building improvement
project and living with a
low-income Honduran family for the dura-
tion of the trip. In addition to these activities,
they will also be traveling to the Mayan ruins
in Copan, which are a major tourist attraction
in the region. Upon returning from the trip
the students will be sharing their experiences
and lessons with other Davidson students
and faculty.

Ndiaye, who studies the history of race
relations in both France and the United
States, is the author of “La Condition Noir:
Essai sur une minorité francaise” (2008) and
“Nylon and Bombs: DuPont and the March
of Modern America,” (2007). He is an asso-
ciate professor at the Paris Ecole des Hautes
Etudes en Sciences Sociales. The lecture will
take place at 7:30 on September 28 in the
900 room and will be free and open to the
public.

“senger s s rep off the’ coast, of Patagonia, ac-
quired a 'éseventh grade. wedgie” while at~
_ tempting sumo wrestling, spent. the night.
. in an underwater hotel, visited the world’s -

; highest ski resort in Bolivia, and even rode”

an ostrich in.Australia : :
Lansky’ provided . tips: for. safe « rave

: to disprove-a‘few travel myths such as th

: need to avoid sampling the local cuisine for “ 4

fear of getting, sick and the common ave
sion to hostels, He encouraged travelers to,
avoid. relying : on brochures.

Es
ee a Rachels

‘We'd Like You tos

im’s carecr-long track record of achieving

successful resalts for his clients bas eamed

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide, He has been named
to the Bost Lawyers in Ametica publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Jedge. Jim Fuller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or cetasiaal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend. the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY » BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

and staying in budget, while also working >.’

which run the;

Jiry Fuller and “Sandy” Carnggig

Aen

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009

qh Gee este er

New bikes to
be released

PATRICIA REID
Staff Writer

Running late for class? Need to get up the
hill quickly? Why not grab one of the new,
student-built community bicycles! Sporting
a sleek new shade of black, these eight com-
munity bikes are planned to be added to last
year’s yellow collection.

Whereas the first fleet of yellow bikes
were purchased, students participating in a
Chidsey Leadership retreat last May built the
black models themselves in groups of six or
seven students as part of a team-building ex-
ercise. With the intent to increase students’
accessibility to transportation around cam-
pus in mind, Davidson Outdoors decided to
sponsor this project, and will likely be releas-
ing the bicycles this year.

One student, Jeannie Kinnett ’12, enjoyed
participating in the exercise. “The retreat was
fun, informative and a fabulous way to meet
leadership-focused individuals.”

Whereas some of the students had prior
experience repairing or building bicycles,
others, like Kinnett, had never built a bike be-
fore. Stressing the simplicity of assimilation,
Kinnett described the rewarding process as
“a fabulous surprise to discover that I— who
understood absolutely nothing about bikes—
could work with others to turn something so
technical into something quite simple and
achievable.”

Not only did Kinnett and other Chidsey
and Davidson Outdoors students benefit
from accomplishing the task as a group, but
the Davidson community at large will likely
benefit, too, as long as students take care of
the bikes. Responsible for fixing and main-
taining the bicycles, student employees of
Davidson Outdoors encourage students to
remember that their own peers at Davidson
spent hours building each bike.

citizens defving around Oregon i in their RY’
trying to find their way into Washingto

‘Throughout.the lecture “Lansky con)
stantly used this sense of’humoro convey:
his knowledge of and passion for traveling:
«the world According to Lansky the differ?

ence between a tourist and traveler is not’
the guidebooks,cameras or goofy hats and
‘tacky outfits: 271 he traveler:ig-the one: who.
constantly pushes themselves out. of their

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30
years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
of criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and cornmercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.
In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
‘| children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a
‘ commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served 08
yanious Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
4 Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M, and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelies and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION « PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 + www.meintoshlawfinn.com

