2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Despite economy, bookstore continue

KATHERINE MILLER
Editor-in-Chief

While the College administration strives
to ensure that the economic downturn does
not affect the lives of Davidson students, one
facet of College finances remains largely un-
affected—the Davidson College Bookstore.

Despite current economic concerns, the
bookstore actually continues to bring in
higher earnings than preceding years. Last
season’s successful basketball run contribut-
ed incalculably to the College’s renown and
reputation. Benefits of heightened national
awareness since the 2007-2008 season con-
tinue to impact the campus.

According to Bookstore Manager Gwen
Gardner, most coliege bookstores are cur-
rently experiencing a decline in sales, while
Davidson’s national exposure ensures the op-
posite from occurring on this campus.

The Bookstore garnered approximately
$419,000 from clothing sales during the
2006-2007 school year. Due in large part to
the basketball team’s extraordinary run last
March, the 2007-2008 school year saw an in-
crease in clothing sales to $1,020,000.

Equally impressive is the fact that, com-
pared to Jan. 2008 versus Jan. 2009, sales
on clothing were up by 160 percent, even
though Jan. falls before March Madness.
This increase is “very indicative of the inter-
est people have in Davidson,” Gardner said.

Where, then, does the money go? The
Bookstore is self-sufficient, in that all em-
ployees and orders are compensated out of
the Bookstore’s own profits. After breaking
even on costs, all additional income from the
Bookstore directly contributes to the College
General Fund.

Another indication of Davidson’s mer-
chandise popularity is the Bookstore web-
site. In 2007, the website received 26,006
hits, versus 2008’s 96,842 hits. At one point,
staff feared the website would crash during
the height of last season’s popularity. Luck-
ily, the website managed to stay running but
received orders so rapidly that staff could
not fill the number of orders that came in ev-
ery day. The Bookstore was given a room in
Baker for the sole purpose of fulfilling web
orders.

‘Six full-time employees, in addition to
seven work-study students, comprise the
regular payroll. During busy times (e.g. the

News

beginning of the semester book rush), the
Bookstore hires temps to ease the demands
on staff.

Given that the Bookstore employees ex-
perienced significantly greater workloads
last spring, one would assume hiring extra
help a necessary next step. In fact, “last year
was amazing because we had so many people
volunteer,” Gardner said. These volunteers
and the existing staff, “felt like we were all a
part of the same wonderful phenomenon.”

The stress on staff extended to our ven-
dors, including the Russell vendor from
Charlotte, who came to campus every day for
two and a half weeks. In fact, the Nike Wit-
ness shirts were a special deal; generally, the
order would have been too small to warrant
Nike participation. The success and notoriety
of the team, however, earned Nike’s involve-
ment and cooperation.

“This increase is very indic-
ative of the interest people
have in Davidson.”
-Gwen Gardner, Bookstore
Manager

The phenomenal season inevitably engen-
ders the question: what’s next? No one could
have anticipated the enormity of last year’s
public response to the basketball team’s suc-
cess. This year, however, the Bookstore will
be prepared for any outcome— but not with-
out securities in case of a (knock on wood)
less victorious season. Every clothing order
is already placed, including the quantity and
design for each step of the tournament. In
fact, Gardner revealed the designs for shirts
all the way up to the NCAA Championship.

Given the eventuality of a win, an or-
der will be filled the next day and shipped
as soon as possible. The set quantity will be
increased according to demand. Should the
team not progress to the next step of the tour-
nament, the order will not be filled, ensur-
ing the College does not sustain any financial
loss from unsold apparel. Last year, luckily,
the Bookstore sold almost the entirety of its
basketball line, as well as an unprecedented
amount of regular Davidson ware.

As anyone who attended a game this sea-

fae erie POL BLOTTER

i

son is aware, the Bookstore now sells mer-
chandise at home games. Gardner reports
this stand definitely contributes to increased
sales. The Bookstore also extends its hours
before home basketball games, as communi-
ty members and other fans enjoy the oppor-
tunity to buy shirts or jerseys. Merchandise
will also be going on the road for the first
time. Six Bookstore staff will accompany the
team to Chattanooga for the SoCon Tourna-
ment with two vans full of gear. The athletic

Monday, Feb., 23rd:
Union 302 - 7 to 8 PM
Union 302 - 8 to 9 PM

Wednesday, Feb. 25th:
Union 313 - 4to 5 PM
Union 313 - 8 to 9 PM

SGA is seeking student input on potential curriculum changes.
SGA is conducting seven forums next week to hear student concerns
related to the curriculum. The faculty and executive staff of the Col-
lege are considering major changes to the curriculum and will draft a
final proposal for review by the Trustees later this semester.
SGA hopes to influence this process by providing student input.

Email any questionsto Davis Greene at dagreene@davidson.edu.

Forums:

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009

——- . -_
to thrive

department reserved a space in the Sheraton
Hotel where the team and their families will
be staying. This decision came in response to
unmet demand at previous important games,
when fans wanted to buy gear and found no
source of merchandise on hand. Preparations
have been collaborative in order to ensure a
professional, impressive and well-planned
display; “we don’t want to go and have peo-

ple think Davidson is not a classy place,”
Gardner said.

Tuesday Feb., 24th:
Union 302 - 5 to6 PM
Union 302 - 6 to 7 PM

Thursday, Feb., 26th:
Union 302 - 6 to 7 PM

Feb. 18 7:00 p.m.

Housing Lottery Dates

Lottery 101: Lottery Overview, Lilly Gallery

02/09/09 21:28 Fire Duke Dormitory

Officer was dispatched to Duke Dorm in reference to a fire alarm. Upon arrival
the officer along with Davidson Fire observed smoke coming from the kitchen on the
1st floor. A student advised that she had been cooking pasta and had left the room for
a minute and when she returned it was smoking. Davidson fire reset the alarm and all

was all right.

02/06/09 00:30 Other Jackson Ct

Officer conducted a zone check at Jackson Ct, 429 Concord Rd. While in front of
the Businesses Services building, reporting officer observed a yellow pry bar on the
ground in front of a window. The window faces Faculty Dr. on the Northwest corner
of the building. Reporting officer searched the exterior of the building, no visible pry
marks were observed on any windows or doors. The pry bar was seized and is now in

possession of the Campus Police, pending further investigation.

02/05/09 17:53 Crime Prevention Duke Dormitory

Officer conducted a community meeting for the residence at Duke Dormitory. Of-
ficer spoke with six students attending the meeting. Officer presented material from the
outlined information and opened the floor for questions. The only two questions asked

were about parking, which the officer explained to the students.

Feb. 20 Noon Substance-Free Applications Due, RLO Office
Feb. 24 4:00 p.m. Sub-Free Selection, RLO Office
Feb. 25 Lottery Numbers Available on RLO Website
Feb. 27 Noon Special Housing & Off-campus Apps

Due - RLO Off-campus Housing granted (1st Round)
March 10 4:00 p.m. Theme / Eco-house room selection, RLO Office
March 12 8:00 p.m. Off-Campus Meeting, Sprinkle Room
March 16 Deadline for on-leave forms
March 17 Noon 5-person apps due, RLO Office
March 18 5:00 p.m. 5-person selection, Tomlinson Conference Room
March 20 Noon 4-person apps due, RLO Office
March 26 6:00 p.m. 4-person selection, Tomlinson Conference Room
April 1 Off-campus housing granted(2nd round) if openings
April 2 6:00 p.m. Singles lottery, Lilly Gallery
April 8 6:00 p.m. Clusters, suites, & doubleroom lottery,

Lilly Gallery

on the opportunity to see the world
from a unique perspective

If you are curious and adventurous,
then pack your bags and say goodbye
to the status quo.

Study abroad to earn college credit,
experience a different culture, learn a
foreign language, discover who you are

7.edU
ysace®
and much more,

USAC, your gateway to the world.”

“SS UNIVERSITY STUDIES ABROAD CONSORTIUM
