THE DAVIDSONIAN

As reported in The Davidsonian
last week, Davidson’s curriculum is
currently being reviewed by faculty
members of the Committee on
Curriculum Development. Based on
that committee’s findings, they will
propose new academmic objectives
to be reviewed ny the trustees in
April.

For those who treasure the liberal
education, this process is cause for
concern. One need only observe
developments in higher education
to see that the liberal arts curriculum
has fallen prey to social missions and relativism. Fortunately,
Davidson College is “behind the curve” and, though imperfect,
still allows those students who seek a liberal education to get
one, provided they choose their courses carefully. Though
there are no longer required courses, core requirements
remain and students still have the option of studying Western
civilization as a whole by taking the Humanities program.

I fear that Davidson, in the course of this assessment,
will determine it needs to “catch up” to its peers. By the
end of this process Davidson College may well irretrievably
undermine its commitment to liberal education by abolishing
its the redeeming qualities that distinguish it from its more
“advanced” peers. Before we do this, we would do well to
reexamine the merits of the liberal education. And, in the work
of the political theorist Leo Strauss we find their exposition.

In his essay, “What is Liberal Education?,” Leo Strauss
wrote, “The finished product of a liberal education is a cultured
human being.” By culture, Strauss meant “the cultivation of
the mind.” The liberal education accomplishes this through the
study of the great books whose authors, according to Strauss,
are “Those teachers who are not...pupils.” The authors of the
great books—the Platos, the Machiavellis, the Shakespeares,
and the Newtons—are the truly original thinkers.

It is the duty of the teacher to facilitate a dialogue among
these great thinkers. In different ways they all address the
profound and permanent questions of the human condition.
Therefore, in reading them, we approach the elusive truth, the

Living adrift in

Lisa V. LANDOE
Guest Columnist

vox libertatis

When Jeremiah (pseudonym) fled Ghana in desperate
search for employment last December, he did not intend on
a one-way ticket. However, the poverty of post-civil war
Liberia has barred Jeremiah’s means of return to his family,
and sentenced him to the wreckage of a conflict for which
he is blameless. His unsoiled hands are tied by the blood-
spattered shackles of Liberia’s turbulent past.

A democracy founded by freed American slaves in 1847,
Liberia was long governed by tyrannical Americo-Liberians,
who imposed increasingly oppressive regulations upon the
indigenous people. The torrid discontent of a repressed
population, in conjunction with economic collapse, ushered
in a coup by the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL)
in the late 1980’s. The First Civil War lasted between 1989
and 1996, superficially settled by a peace agreement and the
election of President Taylor. After the election, various actors
blamed each other for the rebellion. As President Taylor
pointed his finger at Guinea, Ghana and Nigeria suspected
Taylor himself of association with rebels in Sierra Leone.

Conflict escalated in 1999, when the Liberians United for
Reconciliation and Democracy (LURD) amassed in northern
Liberia with the support of the Guinean government. Joined in
2003 by a second rebel group, the Movement for Democracy
in Liberia from the south, LURD laid siege to the capital
Monrovia, and Taylor resigned on Aug. 11, 2003. The waters
of Liberia’s 14-year civil war resided upon the signing of a
comprehensive peace treaty. On Oct. 1, the United Nations
Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) deployed 15,000 peacekeepers,
which are struggling to complete the disarmament process to
this day.

Despite the relative stability of postwar Liberia,
humanitarian needs remain widespread. In addition, the
country’s judicial system is prfoundly dysfunctional, as
human rights groups labor to resist impunity and maintain
the resettlement of refugees as a priority.

A recent email informed me of Jeremiah’s desperate
situation in Monrovia. His pleas were hauntingly simple:
“Help me.” As your eyes peruse his broken English, the pit
of your stomach aches as you become hauntingly aware of
your present comforts ard exceptional security. Desperation
so real as his is almost surreal. But as you read this article,
Jeremiah remains in Monrovia, the pit of his stomach aching

Protect liberal education at Davidson

PERSPECTIVES

sole object of the liberal education.

Liberal education, inasmuch as it develops man’s highest
faculty, the faculty which distinguishes him from other
animals, namely his reason, promotes human excellence.
It, as Strauss wrote in his essay “Liberal Education and
Responsibility,” is preparation for philosophy, which is the
highest human good insofar as the philosopher, as Plato
claimed, sheds his chains and is able to see the light of truth.
The philosopher has cultivated the highest human faculty and
thereby achieves excellence.

Of course, philosophers are rare and, in this light, one
would be wrong to view the liberal arts college as a boot
camp for philosophers. Though perfect excellence might not
be attainable, to be liberally educated is to be closer to that
highest of goods.

In this way, the liberal education is an end in itself.
Incorporating social missions like sustainability or the
promotion of diversity into curricula introduces assumptions
into education that necessarily obscure the truth.

Yet, to say that the liberal education is an end in itself and
cannot maintain its integrity while, at the same time, adopting
social missions is not to say that liberal education does not
serve a social good. Far from useless, liberal education
imparts students with thoughtfulness, rhetorical skill, and
elevated character—all of which undoubtedly make for a
better society.

This is especially true in a democracy where the people
rule and need education to rule well. For, as Leo Strauss
observed, “Liberal education is the ladder by which we try
to ascend from mass democracy to democracy as originally
meant. Liberal education is the necessary endeavor to found
an aristocracy within democratic mass society.”

Strauss rightly stated that “We cannot think highly enough
of what liberal education is meant to be.” Most importantly, it
is the means to human excellence. And our democracy rests
in no small part on its strength. Though weakened, it has,
in large part survived at Davidson. Today, we stand on the
brink; we can reinvigorate it or destroy it.

Zach Bennett ’1l is a political science major from
Lancaster, Pa. Contact him at zabennett@davidson.edu.

postwar Liberia

for less privileged reasons. Read for yourself:

“Thank you Lisa for the mail and I am happy that you are
doing very well as well as you family. Thank you for asking
about what I am doing now. My sister, i[t] has not been easy
here, I have been going around looking for [a] job. But I have
not f[oujnd one yet[.] But I believe that one day God is going
to make a way.

Lisa, I am now in Liberia. [b]ecause I was not happy sit(t}
ing at one place not doing any thing, I sen{t] a[n] application
to work with mercy Ship. I sen[t] the application to them and
they ask[ed] me to meet them in Monrovia because by that
time the ship was in Liberia{.] I have been here for some
months now, I was here before [Christ}mas. So as I was
saying, when I got to Monrovia, [t]he people told me that
they ha[d] tak[en] the staff that they needed therefore I can
apply next year. As I am talking with you now the ship is
gone and I am still here because I don’t have the hands to pay
my way back to Ghana. I am very stranded here. I don’t know
[a]ny[bJody here to go and ask for help so that I can pay my
way back. Please [it] is not good for me here my friend.[...]
Please you all should help me for the last time. Please I want
to go home, I know that when I go home that will be better.
This country just came out of war, I was thinking that I am
just meeting the ship here, [bJut things have change[d] for
me. Please you should help pray for me and help me pay my
way home. The days that I was to be in this country have
pass[ed], I am only praying that immigration don’t get hold
of me. I need your help my friend. I came here because I
was thinking that I am going to get a job[.] In Ghana, I have
been sending [my] application (to] so may place[s}, (bJut still
no way, that way why I said, I should come to this country
thinking that God is going to make a way. Please I have to go
now I will be waiting to hear from you. Please Bro[ther], help

me so that I can leave here and go back.”

In the midst of midterms and job applications, it is all too
easy to loose perspective. Often, the pace and demands of
Davidson subtly produce self-centric schedules that neglect
more pressing issues of social justice. As Spring Break
approaches and classes dismiss, let us all try to remember
the our relatively good fortune, and turn outwards to our
respective communities to truthfully assess how equally
distributed fortune is.

Lisa Landoe ’10 is a religion major from Lake Forest, Ill.
Contact her at lilandoe@davidson.edu

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009 9

held firm against the Nazis; Night.
fier night Britons’ weathered the.
% sf bombing?? ‘of the Luftwaffe’ and
“> fought. the. fires of annihilation, .
Hell and tyranny” “were: breaking.
down. their “door, * ~but. Britons:
stened to” the “words of”, Sir,
a _ Winston Churchill. He said, We.
; +» shall not flag or fail..We shall go.
on to the end, We shall fight in”
fy Bossy DesPain| France; we shall fight on the seas.
“and oceans, shall fight with growing confidence and.
" growing strength in the air. We shall defend our island, -

é shall fight on the Tone egcounds, we shall fight in the’
elds and in the streets, we shall aad in the hills. We shall.

ow, however, the sun seems sto have all but disappeared :
/ fro the British empire. Gone are the days of “blood, toil, :
_ tears. and sweat” to achieve victory. Instead of the proud - :
“Union Jackya. white flag of surrender and. appeasement.
flies above the cliffs of Dover, On Feb. 12, Great Britain,
tefused entry to Geert Wilders, a Dutch parliame tarian,.
lamie critic and creator of the short‘film “Fitna
"The ‘core’ of. the ban comes: as-a-result ‘of “Fitna?
iiders had been invited to show the film by Lord Pearson...

if Rannoch, »Fitna’: Antersperses a fie of Sept. I and

fficer) has. the authority to prevent people from entering
if there i is a threat to national security, Lene order or the ‘

oreign. séeretary’ ‘concerned. ‘about yelling pices on the {
fact that British Muslims. are providing the Taliban with,
