THE DAVIDSONIAN

- —"heeel...

PERSPECTIVES

Frivolous spending threatens sustainability

Linpsay BROWNELL
Guest Columnist

I love The Davidson Show. Grant Clark’s rendition
of Miley Cyrus’ “See You Again” made me convulse with
laughter, as did Bryant Barr’s ’coon hunting skills. It’s
also a great, entertaining way to find out what’s going on
around campus. But when I read in The Davidsonian that
The Davidson Show had received $30,000 for studio space
and “necessary technical equipment,” I was shocked and
appalled. I can think of dozens of ways that $30,000 could
have been better spent or, better yet, saved. In defense of the
large budget and the benefits it has created, Austin Bell said
of the studio, “The space is pretty rockin.” This statement
does not reflect the professionalism that The Davidson Show
is touting, as it claims to be “creating an institution that brings
the community together.”

I do not intend for this response to exclusively beat down
The Davidson Show for being proactive and entrepreneurial.
It marks just one more event in a chain of observations that is
leading me to conclude that Davidson College as a whole is
not making as much of a “green” effort as it claims. It is true
that we have made important strides toward saving energy;
many buildings on campus now have low-flush toilets, more
communications are becoming paperless and recycling is
receiving more promotion. I think that Davidson is indeed
moving toward being “green,” but it still has a long way to
go before it reaches true sustainability, both environmentally
and economically.

Upon returning from my semester abroad, I immediately
noticed the flat panel TVs and brand spankin’ new, dual-boot

computers that seem to have sprung up everywhere, from |

dorm lounges to Belk lab to the Union. They certainly do look
snazzy, but I have to ask myself, was the “old” technology
really obsolete? Was it imperative that we replace working
machines with new ones, even though the old ones still had
years of life left? One could possibly justify the action by
claiming that the new machines use less energy. But how

much energy was expended to produce the new products and
ship them to Davidson? How much energy will be used to
properly dispose of the new e-waste we have created?

As another example, this weekend at the men’s basketball
game, fans arrived at the arena to find a small “Blackout
Belk” hand towel on each and every seat. It was somewhat of
a novelty and a surprise, I’ll admit. But once the game ended,
I watched as the tide of spectators flowed slowly out of the
arena doors, leaving behind them a wake of small towels
strewn over the floor and seats. How much energy was spent
to make those towels, just for them to be abandoned on the
floor? To put things in perspective, it takes 20,000 liters of
water to make just one kilogram of cotton, and 10 percent of
pesticides worldwide are used on cotton plants. Those towels
were clearly not an environmentally sound choice. From an
economic standpoint, it also struck me as incredibly wasteful.
We are in a severe economic recession, and I expect my
college to be doing all it can to cut unnecessary costs to sustain
itself while remaining committed to the academic excellence
and affordability it champions. Providing towels at a sporting
event does not fall under my category of “necessary,” or even
“beneficial.”

Davidson is on the right track with regard to sustainability,
but it still has a long way to go to meet the goal of becoming
carbon-neutral without cripplingly large payments to offset
its carbon footprint. I think Davidson needs to evaluate ALL
its actions and halt what I would call “frivolous spending.” It
seems that Davidson has a mindset of constant improvement,
partly spurred by the fact that, in general, we can afford it. I
challenge the administration and students not to always see
“new” as inherently “better,” but to extract the full value of
existing goods and services in an effort to reduce our spending
and ecological impact. I will admit, however, that it’s high
time the sophomore apartments were renovated.

Lindsay Brownell ’10 is double major in English and
biology from Detroit, Mich. Contact her at librownell@
davidson.edu.

Obama team needs some time |

SuUNNY_LEE
Guest Columnist

A little under a month has passed since the inauguration
of President Barack Obama. What can we definitively say
about our state of affairs during his presidency? Well, the
economy is still in a meltdown, international relations are
still tense and Osama bin Laden is still free. The only logical
conclusion here is that Obama is clearly a complete failure
who should be ashamed of himself and anybody who was
foolish enough to vote for him.

This is the perspective offered by some of Obama’s more
vociferous (read: insane) critics. This is also the perspective
that is helping to destroy America.

That may have seemed a bit dramatic, but unfortunately
I really have come to believe this. Some conservative
commentators and politicians have taken an unhealthy
amount of pleasure in lambasting Obama’s supposed gaffes.
They have somehow distilled the vitriolic process in some
sort of magical bile refinery and apparently managed to
produce over-arching criticisms of his presidency based on
what he had for breakfast on Saturday (eggs benedict and
half a grapefruit).

The same commentators who claim that the legacy of
our previous-president-who-must-not-be-named can’t be
fully appreciated until the far future have already judged this
one to be a total disappointment. The funniest part is while
they’ve already decided that anything Obama does, says,
plans or even thinks will end in unrelenting failure and also
probably destroy America, they’ll be damned if they actually
let him do anything as president. In their defense they are just
helping save some time, since everything Obama does is the
worst thing planned by the worst person ever.

They have him in a pretty nice catch-22. Here’s an
example to consider: some critics claim that since Obama
campaigned on reforming conventional politics but is now
practicing conventional politics in order to garner support for
his plans, he must be totally illegitimate.

Yet as the painfully drawn-out resistance to the stimulus
package has shown, it is impossible for Obama to play politics
by the rules he would like as long as we continue to tolerate
the rules as they exist today. It is like asking a man on a rack
to scratch your nose. Not only is it pretty cruel and unusual,
but it doesn’t make any sense.

Granted, President Obama has not been the political
messiah bringing us to the promised land. Was anyone
seriously expecting him to be? We knew, or should have
known, that these are not easy times with easy solutions.
Obama faces a wide array of crises, national and international,

that are daunting to say the least. We may need to give him
a little more than a month to solve some of these problems.
What is most frustrating about these unfounded criticisms
however is what this says about us as a culture. Have we
become so detached from the reality of our situation that we
can’t accept anything short of a magic economy pill?

We as a people need to be prepared to take an active role
in any change that comes our way. While change that is top-
down may be temporarily effective, it is rarely enduring.
Take a nifty historical example: the New Deal. Franklin
Delano Roosevelt didn’t single-handedly save the country;
he merely offered the American people an opportunity to
redeem themselves through agencies like the Works Progress
Administration. His fireside messages of hope were simply
catalysts for the people.

The true change came from the individuals who worked
for it—and what we need now more than ever is individuals
personally committed to change. It is easy to criticize societal
deficiencies, but if we’re not prepared to change anything
on the micro scale, how can we expect any wider, enduring
change?

What we need most right now is hope for the future, and
a confident population that takes an active part in not only
pressing for, but being the change. We cannot just pay lip
service to change anymore, and this means we cannot tolerate
politicians who merely pay lip service to change anymore.
Without commitment and cooperation from the people (and
conservative politicians) it is certainly true that Obama
will fail—but it will be our failure rather than his. The one
thing Obama has definitively proved is that he can inspire
the kind of change and commitment we need—and fanatic
conservatives would like nothing more than to take even that
away from us.

I’m not saying we shouldn’t be skeptical of his politics,
but there is a difference between legitimate criticism and the
self-indulgent, pedantic soap—boxing which is becoming
unfortunately common. Why squander airtime on things like
Obama’s interview with Al-Arabiya, or his “scandalous” and
“iHegitimate” repetition of the oath of office?

Wouldn’t it be more constructive to actually respond to
his policies and—and I know this sounds ridiculous— help
devise a new system that hasn’t failed catastrophically in the
past? If we as individuals aren’t prepared to change anything,
from where exactly are we expecting this miraculous change
to come? Who cares? Did you know that Obama’s middle
name is Hussein?

Sunny Lee ’I] is undeclared. He is from New York, N.Y.
Contact him at sulee@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 18, 2009

catastrophe” .” ‘and
» fail,’ do.they not have to follo :
the highest law of the land? Whe:
in the Constitution does,
that Congress. has. the authorit
to. hand. money, over. to bank
Bossy DesPAIn | rescue failed businesses. or crea
. jobs? Congress can only create ans
_ environment within which free trade, pereprenenrship and.
inhindered capitalism can occur
However, let: us give Congress some slack and
Just this once Congress can ignore the Constitution; does
that mean their stimulus packages will work? Is there an
vidence their. policies: will succeed? »Do Harry Rei
Nancy Pelosi-and President Obama have: any’ evidence:
‘their massive spending will help the economy. to grow2:
Did it work-for Hoover and Roosevelt? Did all of FDR’
phabet soup government programs pull the country out
f depression? Has it worked this time around? Has the
_TARP program boosted the economy? Have the bank and.

ourse, this is- Te dable< when you look’ at.
ho is iste the show. The market does not.hold ane

_ Our leaders cannot even be counted on in atime of crisis
to fulfill promises. ‘They promised a 1 pork-free bill, but lo ©
and behold, millions of dollars are going to the National,
Endowment : “for . the. “Arts, ‘digital. conversion , coupons ©
and even to save-a mouse-in Nancy Pelosi’s district. The,
public was promised transparency, but instead received. a
bill crafted behind closed doors and onl :

_way “which is Constitutional: providing for the defense of
“the. United States,’ Congress should grant more defense
‘ contracts, Update the nuclear arsenal. Build more planes,
_ships, tanks,and artillery: Order more/body, armor and.
_ make sure that every military medical facility has the very
_ best instruments. Make sure our soldiers on the front lines
chave the necessary equipment; Such spending would have
fan immediate job impact, Nothing needs to be planneds,
» The companies already exist to fill those orders and could:
hire more employees to meet the demand. ®
All of this is much too hopeful»The country will be. :
~ stuck’ with a bill more to do with social programs than,
- putting the freedom back’in the. free market. ; *

Bobby DesPain”I1 is undeclared. He is from SE-Lonis
him at bodespain@davidson. edit
