y THE DAVIDSONIAN

Spanish

MaREILLE ABALO
Guest Writer

Hailing from a country known not only
as a rich historic and cultural relic but also
as the birthplace of famous literature works
such “Don Quijote de la Mancha” and “The
Cid” (and for many Davidson students, the
location of a fantastic summer study abroad
program in Cédiz), the Spanish author Laura
Freixas spent a few days visiting Davidson
College last week.

Her brief stay, which included class dis-
cussions, meals with students and a creative
writing workshop, culminated in her lecture
“Souls in Purgatory — or Why I Became A
Writer.”

Growing up as a woman in Francoist
Spain, Laura Freixas recounted the restrictive
and formalized social positions for women,
who were confined to the roles of housewives
and caretakers. The Franco regime favored
men as absolute household heads, and as
such, men enjoyed freedoms that were only

autho

News

available to women with the approval of their
fathers or husbands. However, as Freixas is
quick to note, there remained a glaringly ob-
vious (yet unnoticed and uncensored) route
of escape from the everyday lives of house-
hold women: literature.

Through literature, Freixas and her
mother traveled to new countries and places,
explored new landscapes and lifestyles, dis-
covered and enjoyed freedoms such as non-
chaperoned trips, liberty of choice and the
voicing of frank, honest opinions.

Her two separate lives, one through. lit-
erature and the other that of girl growing up
in the male-oriented Francoist society, dem-
onstrate the dichotomy that has existed for
Freixas. This dichotomy is evident in her fic-
tion and her literary criticism.

Freixas feels that her literature should be
seen as “literature,” not “literature written
by a woman.” Freixas seeks to communicate
that literature has the potential to be enjoyed
and appreciated by all regardless of sex, gen-
der, race, ethnic group, nationality and other
dividing factors.

Honor Council Hearings Spring 2009

Charge Plea
Cheating on take Guilty
home review
Cheating on Guilty
review
Two counts of Guilty
cheating
(plagiarism)

Cheating Guilty
(plagiarism)

Sanction
F in the course and letter of
apology to the professor

F in the course and letter of
apology to the professor

F in the course, 3 authorized
withdrawals, and required
consultation with the writing
center

Initial sanction:

F in the course and 3 autho-
rized withdrawals

Appealed to Review Board,
Review Board Sanction:

F in the course and next paper
written in consultation with
the writing center

r Laura Freixas

Using her rich, multicultural and multi-
lingual background (Freixas is fluent in Cat-
alan, Spanish, French and English), as well
as her experiences in two socio-economic
classes, Freixas attempts to bring her work
to a gender-neutral status where it will be
critiqued and analyzed by its contents, style
and literary technique and not by the sex and
gender of its author.

Dr. Kyra Kietrys, who along with Dr.
Angela Willis organized Freixas’s visit, com-
mented: “I hope the students who attended
Laura Freixas’s lecture were able to open
their minds to a different view of the world
that could be applied either to their personal
lives or their understanding of Spanish.”

Noting the history of Spain and the con-
text of Freixas’s writing, Kietrys further notes
that “hopefully students learned to differen-
tiate between the terminologies of literature
written by women and literature written for
women. One does not imply the other; they
are very different.”

Kietrys met and was favorably impressed
by Freixas when she delivered a keynote
speech at a conference of the International
Association of Feminine Hispanic Cul-
ture and Literature last fall. Kietrys started

WEbNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2009

defies classifications

thinking about the possibility of inviting
Freixas for a talk at Davidson College. Dr.
Herndndez-Chiroldes’s “Intermediate Span-
ish” class, Willis’s “Advanced Grammar”
class, and Kietrys’s ” Introduction to Spanish
Literature and Culture” and Senior Seminar
classes have read and discussed Freixas’s
writings.

Freixas is interesting in that neither her
literature nor she herself can be readily cate-
gorized: she is Spanish, but received French
schooling; she is a woman, but writes for
all regardless of sex and gender; and, while
she shows respect and appreciation for her
country, she is also quick to point out its
weaker points, describing Madrid as “rui-
dosa” (noisy) and deploring the lack of en-
vironmental awareness throughout Spain and
much of Europe.

The collaboration of the Spanish, Eng-
lish, and French Departments, OLAS (Orga-
nization of Latin American Students), Dean
Rusk, DIA (Davidson International Associa-
tion), the Gender Studies concentration and
the Public Lectures Committee sponsored
Freixas’s talk which was attended by ap-
proximately 100 students, staff, faculty and
members of the Davidson community.

SGA discusses housing lottery

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

This week’s SGA meeting began with
Dean Patty Perillo taking the floor in order
to discuss some new policies and changes in
the Housing Lottery. Perillo acknowledged
that the process can be extremely stressful
for students and that having the right place to
live can immensely influence students’ life.

Last year, a group of students collabo-
rated to produce some recommendations for
RLO in regards to the housing lottery, and
most of them agreed that withholding lottery
numbers could be beneficial to the process.

One of the main concerns that RLO and
Dean Perillo have is that students have been
found to have created apartments with people
that have good lottery numbers and then stu-
dents switch rooms “through the back door.”

“Switching rooms/apartments without
prior approval of RLO will be treated as an
honor code violation,” Perillo said. Even
though withholding lottery numbers could
be a solution to this problem, RLO will not

IMPERFECT VERBS IN ZTALTAN «4

WORKEO oO#

%

WHAT es

Discover wh

ere you'll study abroad at usac.unt.edu

Serene ey

SIE TALS

RETARD: | F <4
SA ET ;

a
Hour Gateway tte ort,

be withholding lottery numbers in the next
lottery because they believe that students can
be mature enough to go through the process
knowing their number.

Some other changes in the lottery will
be that next year there will be more time be-
tween the lottery for apartments in F (5 stu-
dents per apartment) and the rest of Martin
Court (4 students per apartment). There will
be two weeks between these lotteries, which
will allow students that do not get a 5-student
apartment to regroup and find a living situa-
tion in which they will be comfortable.

In addition to this, there will be a social
networking time for those students that do
not have a roommate or those students that
want to live in an apartment and are missing
people. An Info Session for students going
abroad, where everything they need to know
will be discussed, has also been planned.

Another change that will be taking place
is that superclusters will be reduced to five to
seven people, and singles in the sophomore
apartments will be treated as part of the su-
per cluster. The idea behind this is that there
will not be one or two people out that do not
know the rest of the hall.

After Perillo’s intervention, the new
events that the External Affairs committee is
planning were discussed. There will be an af-
ter-school event on Fridays where Davidson
students can play with some of the children
from the town on the green by the library.

This will be funded by the town, and it
will be further discussed with both SGA and
the town. In addition to this, they are also
planning a “Senior Ball for Senior Citizens”
which will be a nice way for senior citizens
to network and have a fun time. The tickets
will be sold and there will be an auction. All
of the proceeds of the event will be donated
to the Davidson fund.

Immediately after, Meikaela Zwieryzns-
ki’ 10 proposed that SGA create a table where
people that benefit from the Davidson Trust
can write a note to thank those who make the
Davidson Trust possible.

“Davidson College made a commit-
ment that no student will need loans in order
to attend Davidson, and the Davidson Trust
makes this possible. But, the trust took a hit
with the economic crisis and it is important
that those that make the Davidson Trust pos-
sible know that the students that benefit from
it appreciate it greatly,” Zwierysnski said.

The meeting ended with the approval of
this proposition.
