10 Tre DAvVIDSONIAN

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

When the Davidson Wildcats take the
court on Saturday against the College of
Charleston in a key Southern Conference
duel, the broadcast will be noted for the pres-
ence of one of the more debated figures in
basketball: Dick Vitale. Vitale has been the
voice of college basketball for over 20 years,
his loud and lauding commentary reverber-
ating through many living rooms every year
from November through March.

Loved by many and hated by an equal
number, Vitale is unquestionably the most
famous figure in basketball broadcasting. He
gets the nod for many of the marquee match-
ups around the country, and his enthusiasm
for the game is contagious.

All of this praise, of course, begs the
question: why is Vitale hated by so many
basketball fans around the country?

The answers vary depending upon whom
you ask. Many fans on the East Coast con-
sider Vitale to be too favorable to the Duke
University Blue Devils. The truth of the mat-
ter is that Vitale does maintain a close rela-
tionship with Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski.
The two have been friends for some time, al-
though much of their interaction comes from
benefits for the Jimmy V Foundation, which
raises money for cancer research.

Does Vitale favor Duke in his broadcast-
ing? I think he does mention Duke far too
often when he broadcasts other games. For
example, in Monday night’s Top Ten tilt be-
tween Connecticut and Louisville, Vitale
mentioned the Blue Devils less than two
minutes into the game.

Vitale has rightfully earned his “Dukie
V” mantra with excessive mention of the
Blue Devils, but I will take a stand and argue
that he is not a Duke homer (full disclosure: I
cannot stand Duke Basketball).

There is no denying that Vitale usually
hypes the frontrunner. Duke, whether or
not we want to admit, has been at or near
the top of the college basketball world for
two decades. He praises North Carolina and
Connecticut in much the same fashion as he
heaps superlatives on Duke. He treats Ty-
ler Hansbrough and even our own Stephen

| SPORTS
The Voice of College Basketball,
whether you like it or not

Redick and Mike Dunleavy at Duke.

Here’s the story with Vitale, and it is
something that we would all do well to re-
member: the man loves basketball. He loves
good basketball, excited student sections and
coaches that get the most out of their players.
He will not hesitate to give acclaim to any
team that deserves it.

Vitale proved his mettle in this regard
after the ’95-’96 season in which Davidson
lost in the conference championship. Much
of the nation discounted the Wildcats’ cre-
dentials. Vitale, on the other hand, champi-
oned the Wildcats as deserving of a bid to the
NCAA Tournament. After Davidson was left
on the outside looking in, Vitale lambasted
the committee for its oversight.

By all accounts, Vitale is also a genuinely
nice person. I have had many people tell me
that Vitale has graciously devoted time in
restaurants and other public spaces to speak
with them, sign autographs and be generally
amiable. Furthermore, he donates consider-
able time and effort to various charities, and
has donated considerable sums of money to
the V Foundation for Cancer Research.

I do not believe Vitale offers as much in-—

sight as he should with his color commentary.
He is actually a brilliant basketball mind, and
has much more to offer than his enthusiasm.
He was a successful college coach despite
making his name in the broadcast booth.

In spite of his flaws, Vitale’s enthusiasm
and passion for basketball are contagious.
His voice signifies the beginning of the col-
lege basketball season, and those that claim
Vitale is a blatant Duke homer are looking
through the wrong colored glasses.

We should view Vitale as a tremendous
ambassador for the game, a humanitarian,
and a man that appreciates good basketball.
Fans that hate Vitale are mostly fans of teams
that historically have had little success.

Davidson fans, listen to Saturday’s broad-
cast. He will be gushing about Curry, McK-
illop, and Davidson as the little school that
can compete with the big boys. Who cares
about the Duke mentions?

The man loves college basketball. He
brought it notoriety and continues to bring
excitement to every game he calls. Dick Vi-
tale truly is the voice of college basketball
and IJ, for one, love it.

Curry in the same manner as he lauded J.J.

Western, from page 12

games, two short of the SoCon record set
by Jerry West’s West Virginia teams of the
late 1950’s. Davidson’s record now stands at
19-3 and 12-0 in the conference.

The Wildcats recently learned that they
will play No. 11 Butler at Belk Arena on Feb-
tuary 21 as part of ESPN’s BracketBusters
program. A time for the game has not been
determined, but the game will be televised
on one of the ESPN networks. Davidson de-
feated Winthrop 60-47 in its BracketBuster
debut last year.

Biild

¥

Roundup

Additionally, Curry was named SoCon
Player of the Week for a record seventh time

this season after averaging 26 points, 6.7 as- .

sists, 5 rebounds, and 2.3 steals in last week’s
victories over Chattanooga, Samford, and
Western Carolina.

The Wildcats’ conference campaign will
continue tomorrow at UNC-Greensboro at 7
p.m. Saturday will see the Wildcats return to
Belk Arena for a 6 p.m. tip-off against Col-
lege of Charleston in the school’s third-an-
nual Blackout Belk promotion. The Cougars
are currently the second-place team in the
SoCon with an 8-3 conference record.

—_

Wofford, from page 12

made nearly half of its attempts. This statis-
tic includes 50 percent from three-point land,
adding 33 points to the home team’s score.
Davidson dropped only 47 percent of its free
throws, compared to the team’s season aver-
age of 72 percent.

Despite the team numbers, it seemed
like nearly every Davidson player put on a
respectable performance. Along with Robin-
son’s record-setting 15 points, she grabbed
11 rebounds for yet another double-double.
Halbersleben matched with a double-double
of her own— 14 points and 10 boards. Alex
Thompson led the ’Cats with 21 points,
marking her return to full offensive force.

Davidson’s defense gave up an unforgiv-
able 86 points to Wofford. Defensive inten-
sity and focus was a problem for the ’Cats
and no player could deny that.

Thompson said, “Our defense — we kind
of let that slip. We started focusing so much
on getting our offense and being aggressive.
Well now that’s clicking fine, so we have to
get back to sharpening our defense.”

Perhaps a more revealing statistic is that
Davidson’s bench players spent 59 minutes
on the court, to Wofford’s 90.

Depth has plagued the Wildcats all sea-
son, and all 12 Wofford participants capital-
ized on this weakness. One stat that usually
favors Davidson—bench points—also went
against the team. Wofford had 45—an as-
tounding figure—to Davidson’s nine.

What began as a stunning 7-0 run in the
SoCon for the Wildcats has slipped to a 7-6
season. Beat up, shook up, and battered; the
team has every right to blame the situation.
Taking the young team, difficult schedule,
and limited bench into account, the 7-6 con-
ference mark is perfectly admirable.

But the ’Cats still have one overarch-
ing goal this season. “We still want to win
a championship,” Thompson said. The team
still hangs around the middle of the confer-
ence standings, still positioned to climb the

We'd Like You to Madi

im’s carees-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers Ia America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

As afonner NC Count of Appeals Judge, Jim Fulleris

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 2009

Alex Thompson ‘10 led the ’Cats with 21,
points and 5 rebounds against Wofford.

ranks with only a couple of wins. Davidson
still has the opportunity to avenge its loss-
es to the league’s top teams—Samford and
Chattanooga. Better yet, both games will be
held in Belk Arena.

This Saturday will bring the Wildcats
their best opportunity to overturn the current
losing skid. Traveling to Elon, they will face
the only SoCon team still looking for its first
win. The Phoenix are beatable for Davidson.
The ’Cats simply need the confidence to
come out to play.

Thompson said, “You never know when
a team’s going to come up and take one from
you. You’ve got to face each opponent with
the same kind of awareness.”

Of course, nothing’s so simple, but the
team does have all week to prepare. It only
takes one win to turn the tides.

“We’ve taken it all in stride the entire
time—we’ve faced a lot of adversity this
year,” Thompson said. “But I think we all
knew we could handle that, and we’re ready
to brush it off our shoulders.”

sonal Injury Attorneys}

rosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30
years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
_ above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
Jaw inchiding, contract preparation and review, residential
aad commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning, Sandy is licensed to practice before all

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the 3 state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional 7 In addition to his many responsibilities 2s an attomey,
litigation skills, With 32 years of courtroom expenience, Sandy is dedicated to his family aod to bis community.
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
who have been injured by the negligent ar erieaieal in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have tve grown
conduct of otters. children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years 25
fim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A hae ai 4 various Town of Davidson commitines, be is a member
member of the Lions Clab, Jim also serves on the eg and “Sandy” Carnegie Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands ia ME Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AR & A.M. and in has
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and THe coached youth football, basketball and bascball in the
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board. MAttogy Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.
APPEALS » BANKRUPTCY * BUSINESS LAW LAW FIRM LITIGATION + PERSONAL ENIURY
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING REALESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 » (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Men’s Basketball Men’s Tennis Swimming/Diving Women’s Basketball Women’s Tennis Wrestling
(19-3, 12-0) (1-3, 0-0) Men (2-6, 2-0) (8-14, 7-6) (1-1, 0-0) (4-10, 1-3)
Women (4-6, 4-0)
Results: Results: Results Results Results:
1/28 @ Chattanooga W 92-70 = 2/1 vs. No. 68 Radford L 1-6 Results: 1/31 @ Wofford L 72-86 2/2 vs. S.C. State @ 6-1 1/29 vs. UNCG L 3-34

1/31 @ Samford W 55-52 1/28 vs. VMI PPD 2/3 vs. App. State L 9-25

2/2 vs. Western W 89-65 Next Up: Next Up: Next Up:
2/7 @ No. 52 South Carolina Next Up: 2/7 @ Elon 2/7 vs. Wingate Next Up:
Next Up: 2/10 vs. Gardner-Webb 2/19 CCSA Championships 2/9 vs. UNCG 2/7 vs. Liberty 2/13 @ Anderson
2/5 @ UNCG 2/13 vs. Belmont Abbey
2/7 vs. C of C Notes:Calum Gee ’12 scored Notes: The swim meet against Notes: The Wildcats hope to end Notes: Michele Fanney led the

the ’Cats only match win
against Radford with a tiebreak
victory in #4 singles play.

VMI was postponed due to
inclement weather.

Notes: '
Kevin Cook ’09 recorded a 4-3
decision in the 174-pound weight
class in the ’Cats’ loss to UNCG.

their longest losing streak since Wildcats to their first victory of
the end of the 2001-2002 season the season with a 6-2, 6-2 win in
with a victory at Elon Saturday. #1 singles play.

Notes: The Wildcats extended
the nation’s third longest home
winning streak to 27 games with
the 89-65 win over Western
Carolina on Monday.
