THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats, from page 12

yards on the drive.

The Bulldogs were not ready to quit. Af-
ter the two teams exchanged punts to begin
the second half, Platek broke a tackle near
the line of scrimmage and roamed down the
sideline for a 63-yard score with eight min-
utes to play in the third quarter.

The Wildcats tried to organize a response.
Blanchard hooked up with Andrew Aldrich
"10 for a 25-yard completion and rushed for
20 yards on the next play to set up the fate-
ful field goal attempt that would never have a
chance to sail through the uprights.

The Wildcat offense went three-and-out
after the Bulldogs’ final score, but received
a huge burst from the defense when Tyler
Lemons ’10 and Peter Kidwell ’12 combined
to stop Platek’s dive on fourth-and-one short
of the first down marker at the Davidson 26.
After Blanchard dove to converte a fourth-
and-two at their own 34, the Wildcats reached
into their bag of tricks to set up another
touchdown. Lined up in the Wildcat forma-
tion, Justin Williams ’11 handed off to Man-
tuo on an apparent sweep. Rather than run,
Mantuo flipped the ball to Blanchard, who
had lined up at receiver and was coming on
a reverse. Blanchard found a wide-open Wil-
hams for a 22-yard connection to the Drake
12. Three plays later, Blanchard broke the
plane from five yards out with 5:54 to play.

Wildca

SPORTS
Pulse

: Cec uf ee
Michael Bianchard ’11 hands off to Justin Williams ’11 during the Wildcats 21-16 loss
to Drake on Saturday. Williams totaled 84 all-purpose yards in the game.

After gaining five yards on two plays, Blanchard
was hauled down for a sack by John Sawhill
inside his own one-yard line. A desperation
fourth-down pass sailed over Mark Hanabury’s

When Blanchard lined up in the shotgun for ’11 head, ensuring that the Wildcats would go

the two-point conversion, however, the snap
sailed by him and he was forced to fall on the
ball, leaving the margin at 21-16.

The defense gave up two first downs on
Drake’s next drive, but stiffened in time to
force a Drake punt from the Wildcat 39. Un-
fortunately, Bulldog punter Brandon Wubs
dropped a beautiful pooch punt, pinning the
Wildcats on their own five with 1:57 to play.

se

i;

down in defeat.

The frustration of another close loss was

evident from head coach Tripp Merritt after the
game.

“It’s like a broken record,” he said. “It boils

down to four or five big plays every game. We
missed a block on that field goal, and we work
on it and talk about it every day.”

The Wildcat defense was led by Kidwell’s

Ty There's strong. Then there’s Army Stro
rie strength that comes from expert training in one

150 different career f
d ogi

s—as well as maney for

#

é Oe hey:
’ 4, photo by Tripp Bartholomew

eight tackles and second interception in as
many weeks, and by Lemons’ six tackles and
two sacks. Davidson recorded six sacks in
all.

Blanchard finished with 35 yards rushing
and two touchdowns, while also throwing for
125 yards on 14-25 passing and an intercep-
tion. Mantuo contributed 48 yards on 11 car-
ries. Aldrich was Blanchard’s favorite target,
hauling in six receptions for 54 yards.

Platek finished with 75 yards rushing
on five attempts and two scores. Mike Piat-
kowski produced 226 yards on 17-26 pass-
ing and an interception. Drew Blackmon and
Spencer Cady caught five passes for 72 and
47 yards, respectively.

Wildcat punter Andrew Wohler ’10 had
a moment of glory in the second quarter,
booming a 69-yard punt that was three yards
shy of the school record. The kick would
have broken the record had it not rolled into
the end zone.

The loss drops the Wildcats to 2-5 over-
all, and 2-3 in the Pioneer Football League.
Drake improved to 6-1, 4-0 in the Pioneer
Football League.

The Wildcats will travel this Saturday to
challenge the third team currently tied atop
the PFL with a 4-0 record when they take on
the Butler Bulldogs. Butler is also 7-0 over-
all. Kickoff is at noon.

Jennie Mostellar ‘11 recorded a goal
and two assists in the Wildcats’ 5-2 win
over Appalachian State on Saturday.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2009 11

Women’s Soccer vs. Georgia Southern
Saturday 5 p.m.
Alumni Stadium

The Wildcats enter the season
finale unbeaten in their last four
games following a win and tie
on their road trip to Chattanoo-
ga and Samford over the week-
end. With a win and an Elon loss
to first place UNCG, the ‘Cats
will secure a spot in next week’s
SocCon tournament.

Outside the Den

MLB
Philadelphia Phillies at N.Y. Yankees
Yankee Stadium
Wednesday 7:57 p.m.

The defending champion Phillies
travel to the new Yankee Sta-
dium to take on baseball’s most
storied franchise in Game 1 of
the World Series. ALCS MVP C.C.
Sabathia will start on the mound
for the Yankees while the Phil-
lies will counter with midseason
acquisition Cliff Lee who has
been superb in the playoffs.

Mostellar, Perry
shine as ’Cats rout
Moutaineers 5-2

ANNA STOCKAMORE
Staff Writer

The early morning rain cleared for the
parents’ weekend field hockey match against
NorPac opponent Appalachian State. The
team celebrated their 5-2 win with an after-
noon picnic on the Belk Turf Field.

Clare Perry ’11 scored the first goal of the
game in the 28th minute off a penalty shot,
and then followed with a second goal only 3
minutes later off an assist by Jennie Mostel-
lar 711.

In the opening of the second half, Annie
Evans °13 scored again to create a 3-0 lead
over the Mountaineers. Appalachian State
came back with fervor in the middle of the
second half, scoring two back-to-back goals
leaving the score at 3-2.

Fortunately, the ’Cats put two more goals
in the back of the next in the end of the sec-
ond half. Hannah English °12 scored the
first goal off a penalty corner, and Mostel-
lar scored the second goal off an assist from
Perry.

The ’Cats dominated the match by out-
shooting the Mountaineers 30-13. Perry now
leads the team in scoring with 3 goals and 4
assists.

This was the ’Cats’ first NorPac win of
the season, now placing them 1-4 in the Nor-
Pac division and 5-11 overall. Hopefully, this
win will give the ’Cats confidence when they
face Longwood Saturday, Oct. 31 at 1 p.m.
on the Belk Turf Field.
