THE DAVIDSONIAN

’Cats place 2nd at
CCSA Championship

ZACH ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson College placed second in both
the men’s and women’s swimming and div-
ing on Saturday at the finish of the CCSA
Swimming and Diving Championships in
Athens, Ga. In the men’s category, the Col-
lege of Charleston won first place with 886
points overall while in the women’s, Florida
Gulf Coast University took number one with
887 points.

The Davidson men’s team scored 803
points, Gardner-Webb followed with 640
points, Howard finished fourth with 279
points and VMI and Florida A&M finished
fifth and sixth respectively. On the women’s
side Davidson scored 653 points, followed by
Georgia Southern with 472 points. Gardner-
Webb finished fourth with 457 points while
University of North Florida and College of
Charleston finished fifth and sixth.

Davidson led the field in many of the
tournaments honors. Ben Lane *12 won
men’s diver of the year when he took first
in both male diving events. Coupled with

Lane’s prowess, Davidson coach Aaron
Hintz was named co-men’s diving coach of

Men’s Basketball vs. Georgia Southen
Sat. @ 2:00, Belk Arena
Senior Day

Davidson seniors Can Civi ‘09,
Max Paulhus Gosselin ‘o9,
and Andrew Lovedale ‘o9 will
play their final game at Belk
Arena as the Wildcats conclude
their home schedule. The trio
will be honored before the game
as part of Senior Day festivities.
The ‘Cats look to gain momen-
tum before next week’s SoCon
Tournament (March 6-9).

Outside the Den

Men’s Basketball
No. 10 Marquette at No. 6 Louisville
Sun. @ Noon, CBS

Marquette (23-4, 12-2) visits
Louisville (21-5, 12-2) in a match
up of top 10 teams with first
place in the Big East on the
line. The Golden Eagles are led
by the sweet shooting of Jerel
McNeal (20.0 ppg) and Wesley
Matthews (18.7 ppg) who both
shoot over 40% from behind
the arc. The Cardinals counter
with Earl Clark who leads the
team in both scoring (13.3 ppg)
and rebounding (8.7 rpg).

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

the year. Curtis Chaney °12 also took home
the freshman of the year award with an im-
pressive weekend. Among his wins, he won
the 100 free nearly breaking a school record
with a time of 45.78.

“T am proud of our team” Chaney said,
“T am proud to say that J am a member of
the Davidson College swimming and diving
team, and I wouldn’t have it any other way”.

In addition to these awards, other mem-
bers of the Davidson teams had many other
successes. Merrit Peele 09 won the 1650
freestyle with a time that set a school record
of 15:47.93. Scott Frantz 09 won the 200
back with a school record time of 1:48.69.
Lindsey Martin ’11 won the 100 free with a
time of 49.67. At the end of the meet, Bryan
Droll ’11 and Brad Carmen 710 for the men,
and Casey Van Tassel 712, Emily Castle *11
and Courtney Sanders ’09 for the women,
finished first in the 400 free relay.

“T will never forget the tears of joy when
I. witnessed our relay teams out touch the
top seed, Florida Gulf Coast, in the event,”
Courtney Sanders ’09 said.

“Our successful finish illustrates the com-
mitment and dedication of the team and our
coaches,” Alanna Ream ’09 said.

This was a big finish to a great season for
the seniors. With all of the young talent on
the team, spectators can only look forward
to next season as Davidson hopes to reclaim
their CCSA titles from a year ago.

_sontrolled the first. game, never, trailing
" affer a three run second i inning gave them,

the. 43: lead. Despite. the: joss athe team,
“was. able to bounce back. nicely and. take”
the nightcap easily over Army’ 11-4, This
“time it was Davidson that took’ the earl
: lead and never trailed in the win. Anny

nee Bethe’ ‘Seturay fincas ‘He
ent four for five with two runs batted i in

pore stick against watice going two for four.

&
ES

vs
C
@
:

day afternoon, The Wildcats scored dou:

hase, : continued to hit well by going tw
hed gyi Chris drove his broth

Zs

gs

sarees Z Davidson

&

"first." “career: vietory“The, team continues
_ their nine-game home-stand. to open. th
ason this weekend with games agains
/Cincinnati, Penn, and Georgetown.

Sf

Wildcats gear up
for SoCon pursuit

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

On Saturday, the men’s track and field
team traveled to Clemson, SC for the Clem-
son University Tiger Invitational to end the
non-championship indoor track season. The
Wildcats performed well at the weekend’s
competition. In the 60 meter dash, Bryce
Jones ’11 placed 22nd with his finishing time
of 7.52 seconds. Right behind Jones was
teammate Lee Dorsey 12, securing himself
23rd place with his time of 7.56 seconds. JJ
Alston 712 finished 27th in the race with a

C of C, from page 12

front, the Wildcats were much improved, but
a stymied offense set the stage for another
close one.

Davidson led the charge in the first half.
With Thompson scoring 16 in the first peri-
od, 4-5 from behind the arc, the ’Cats pulled
ahead 34-26 to conclude the half.

The start of the second half seemed to in-
dicate more of the same, as the Wildcats held
on to a solid single-digit lead. But again, in a
striking repeat of Friday’s game, poor shoot-
ing led to a C of C run. This time, the home
team evened the tally, 47 apiece after the
*Cats missed six straight shots.

With Thompson held silent in the second,
Mandy Halbersleben ’09 finally broke the tie.
It would be Davidson’s last lead of the game.
Charleston evened up, then pulled ahead,
and then after being fouled, Laune hit two
free throws for yet another tie. With nearly
no time remaining, the ‘Cats fouled C. of C
under the basket, and one made free throw
ended the hopes of a road-trip sweep.

The second-half slump is a pattern the
team knows it needs to break. “By giving
them the smallest glimpse of hope, they are
able to gain confidence and continue to play
with us,” Laune said. “Our main problem has
been taking care of the ball and making smart
decisions in times like that. Each of us has to
be sure to personally do the little things in
order to maintain control of the game.”

The squad heads to Furman this Satur-
day, Feb. 28, for its last game of the regu-
lar season. If the "Cats pull off a win, they
may receive a five seed, earning them a bye
from the first round of play. Considering the
pressure on the bench all season, that break
would be a blessing.

What will determine the final push will
be starring individual efforts from the team’s
leaders. Thompson, Lax, Laune, and Mer-

We'd Like Youto Meet ©

im’s career-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

bim recognition throughout NC and among bis
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is

a widely respected irial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills, With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
condaet of athers.

Tim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves oa the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed fo the Town Planning Board.

THE

APFEALS + BANKRUPTCY > BUSINESS LAS’
COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANNING

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009

ali

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

11

time of 7.77 seconds.

For the mile, Peter Bruton ’10 made a
strong impression, finishing 2nd with a time
of 4:21.24. Other top Wildcat performances
included Alex Hoyt’s ’09 6th place (4:24.70)
and Blake Evitt’s ’10 8th place finish.

In the 400 meter dash, Dorsey was the
only Wildcat to compete, finishing 23rd once
again with a time of 54.38 seconds. In the
200 meter dash, Jones finished 16th, clock-
ing a time of 23.89. Dorsey, in his third event
of the day, finished 20th in the race with a
time of 24.59 seconds.

In the 3000 meter, Greg Marcil ’11 fin-
ished 7th for the team, setting the pace for
the Wildcats with a time of 8:55.73. Ryan
Hopkins ’12 finished 12th for the ’Cats and
classmate Ian Tupper *12 held off contenders
for 21st place.

On the field, Alston proved to be another
asset for the team, finishing 7th in the long
jump with a leap of 5.64 meters. The ’Cats
will finish their indoor season as they return
to Clemson next weekend for the SoCon In-
door Track Championships.

Ashley Lax tied a career-high with 24
points in the ’Cats win at Ga. Southern.

cedes Robinson ’09 have ail displayed 20-
plus scoring performances this season and
will be the ones to watch. During those tough
second-half stretches, the SoCon’s most
heavily worked bench must contribute on of-
fense.

After such a roller coaster season, in
which the team has proven it can beat any-
one in the SoCon, all signs point to a thrill-
ing weekend in Chattanooga, Mar. 5-9. “It
is hard for every team at the end of the year
both physically and mentally, but being Da-
vidson students, we know how to be efficient
with what we have,” Laune said. “If we play
the way we are capable of playing, this con-
ference is ours.”

r Personal Injury Attorneys

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries duc to another person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest”
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
Jaw inching, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
ag well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities a3 an attomey,
Sanity is dedicated to bis family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years a3 2
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
yatious Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
‘Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AE & A.M. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INIURY
REAL ESTATE « WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 * www.mcintoshlawfirm.com
