6 THe DAVIDSONIAN

eh
Scott Seaton leads orchestra concert

BEN IRELAND
Senior Staff Writer

Last Friday in Duke Family Performance
Hall, the internationally recognized
symphonic director and visiting conductor,
Scott Seaton, led the Davidson College
Symphony Orchestra (DCSO). Scott Seaton
made his international debut with the
Orchestre Philharmonique du Luxembourg
in 2007.

For the concert, Seaton chose four
outstanding - musical selections from the
Classical and Romantic Era: Beethoven’s
“Overture to Collin’s Coriolan,’ Dvorak’s
“Holoubek (The Wild Dove),” Brahms’
“Hungarian Dance No. 1” and Liszt’s “Les
Préludes.”

“The music selection that the DCSO
played tonight was very intense and
challenging,” Tara Chamra, Professor of
Music and Orchestra Director, commented.
“The very fact that these students could
master these pieces on top of their busy
coursework is amazing. I’m very impressed.”
Chamra, DCSO’s usual orchestral director, is
on sabbatical this semester.

Although all four pieces were equally
moving and powerful, Seaton’s personal
favorite, Dvorak’s “Holoubek,” certainly
was the highlight of the evening performance
for its diversity of moods.

“Overall the music was excellent,
with lots of energy despite the difficult
repertoire,” trumpeter Jeffrey Roth ’12 said.
“Although there were just several spots at the
end of Dvorak’s piece that could have gone
better; we pulled it off very well. Scott’s
guidance not only in Dvorak but in all pieces
was crucial in our coming through with an
outstanding performance.”

During the performance, several
orchestra members took on new roles.

Arts & LIVING

“It’s funny because at certain moments
throughout the performance the woodwinds
handled the percussionists’ job,” commented
percussionist and flutist Alexis Valauri-Orton
12. “It was really engaging to see how they
could handle it. But, overall the performance
went extremely well.”

The orchestra entertained the house with
Brahms’ famous work, “Hungarian Dance
No.1.” Brahms’ vigorous dialogue between
the sections set the stage for Liszt’s most
famous symphonic poem “Les Préludes.” The
DCSO beautifully captured the eloquence
and structure of this piece that gracefully
culminated in a vibrantly heroic tone.

“There was an extreme amount of energy
being built between the audience and the
orchestra,” Scott Aguila *12 said. “Especially
in the last piece, it just kept my attention
locked in. Plus, because the conductor gave a
little background before starting each peace,
I could put the work in a certain context.”

After the orchestra’s final note, there was

Visiting conductor, Scott Seaton, takes a bow following Friday’s concert.

an immediate standing ovation rewarding the
aesthetics of the performance, as well as all
of the musicians’ passionate dedication.

At the end of the concert, the Davidsonian
had an opportunity to ask Seaton about
DCSO’s performance in light of working
with many of the world’s most distinguished
orchestras.

“This concert went extremely well in
every sense of the word,” Seaton said with a
content smile. “The DCSO came together as
one and found their inner emotion, capturing
the overall essence of what each song
musically presented. Either they really knew
what they were doing or were very scared.
But seriously, I couldn’t be happier with
Davidson’s orchestra.”

The next DCSO concert will take place
Tue. April 21, at 7:30 p.m. in Duke Family
Performance Hall. This Spring Concert
sponsored by the Music department will
highlight works by Haydn, Smetana and
Strauss.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009

as frends to es yo
2 fe both decided t

Kozhevnikova’s art evokes an ‘energetic instinct’

Mont uE McIntosH
Staff Writer

Ana Kozhevnikova ’09 looks quizzically
at her canvas, sweeping swabs of deep blues
on her large painting. She gazes critically,
dabs blue again and chats with another art
major working in the studio. Kozhenvikova
dresses similar to fellow campus artists; she
dons paint-stained jeans and tugs random
wooden planks to the VAC.

Kozhevnikova is not an art major. Asenior
political science major and Chinese minor,
Kozhevnikova struggled with the fragmented
paths that challenge many Davidson students.
Yet Kozhevnikova, inspired by the Gypsy
concept of “Duende,” embraces Davidson’s
challenges through her passion for drawing
and painting.

Art “came later in life” for Kozhenvikova,
growing beyondahobby when she immigrated
to the United States from Russia at age 13.
Kozhenvikova then spent hours copying

from 11 p.m.-12 a.m. in
the Outpost.

out illustrations from her mother’s drawing
albums, intrigued by the familiar extremes of
fairytale princesses and monsters.

She regularly sketched throughout high
school, first through online comics and
illustrations of fantasy epics like “Lord of the
Rings,” then focused study through JB Art.

Eventually Kozhevnikova developed
an experimental process with watercolors,
charcoal and mixed media. She developed
a graphic, impressionist style instilled in a
visual narrative. “I’m still kind of developing
my style, figuring out things, learning,”
Kozhevnikova said. “I’m not an art major so
of course it’s hard, allocating time to practice
and explore.”

Kozhevnikova managed to find outlets
drawing comics occasionally for the
Davidsonian, and designing the logo and
website for DIA. After a summer trip to India
following her sophomore year, she auctioned
off a series of watercolors and donated the
money to an Indian charity that aids women

and children in city slums. In a more personal
project, however, her love for improvisation,
intensity and endurance has been found in
the artistic concept of “Duende.”

“Duende,” literally meaning demon,
remains illusive when concerning art. The
poet Federico Garcia Lorca defined “Duende”
as the “dark sound,” the “energetic instinct”
summoning primal emotions that he found
in Flamingo, Gypsy Music and “whatever is
sustaining in art.”

“Duende” places an emphasis on instict,
which also appealed to Kozhevnikova. “I’m
fascinated by the origins of it. It’s kind of
the flipside, the darker side of inspiration.
It comes out of the, struggle, an artist’s
own struggle with identity and the idea of
perfection. It’s also a survival mechanism...
but [others] choose to create because that
is how they deal with their situations. And
every society has it. This urge. That’s the
core of ‘Duende’.”

Kozhevnikova, a Watson Fellowship

Wed. 2/25 Thur. 2/26 Fri. 2/27 Sat. 2/28 Sun. 3/1 Tue. 3/3
Math Coffee: “Channel | CIAA Metrolina Final Day for RE/ Spring Break! Spring Break! Spring Break. No Spring Break. No
Assignment on Cay- Career Expo in the FORMATIONS: Dis- classes! classes!
ley Graphs” with Dr. Charlotte Conven- ability, Women, and
Patrick Bahls, UNCA in | tion Center from 10 Sculpture exhibit
Chambers 3155 at 6:30 | a.m. to 2 p.m. in the Visual Arts
p-m. Center. Open from 10

CIS lunch talk with a.m. to 5 p.m.
Ash Wednesday Service| Dr. Matt Samson
at 5:15 p.m. in Lingle & Cheli Bleda °10 Classes end, Spring
Chapel. at 12:15 p.m. in the Break begins!
Carolina Inn.
Outpost Trivia Night

finalist, has based her proposal on this search
for Duende.“1’l concentrate on Gypsy music
and dance and try to use it to as a channel to
paint,” she said.

If she does not receive the Watson, she
still plans to pursue art. “I’d return to Beijing
[where she studied junior year] and try the
graphic printing, functional art. Maybe
clothes, find a designer to collaborate with,
to make patterns for fabrics.”

Meanwhile “Duende’s” idea of “art
for survival” has inspired Kozhevnikova to

‘ranscend the limitations of time and major.

“You know the old cliché, that the
muse has no regard for time. And that’s ok.
Compartmentalizing is contradictory to the
nature of art. Art has to be unbridled. That
also means you have to be ok with juggling,
being imperfect in both. I had a hard time with
balancing sophomore year, but it teaches you
how to deal with opposing demands. That’s
how life operates. You have to let it happen,
yield.”

