4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

_

SGA approves new funding

FRANCISCO FIALLO
Staff Writer

During its meeting last Thursday, the
Student Government Association (SGA)
made preparations as student organizations
begin submitting their Spring Allocation re-
quests for funding. The SGA also voted to
allow the Cats Connect organization an SGA
liaison, further integrating the program—
which pairs first-year students with upper-
classmen—into the college community.
Student organizations that use school fund-
ing for their operations must submit a budget
to the Activities Tax Council (ATC).

Groups can apply for different types of
charters, each with requirements for mem-
bership levels, on-campus visibility and
unique mission. The charters have strict
budget ceilings along with unique privileges
available to each organization. The most

spring period, but retains some funds for
emergency allocations and a fall allocation
period. Remaining funds from student orga-
nizations are pooled together and rolled over
into the budget for the next academic year.

The ATC began receiving budgets and
meeting with student organizations last Friday.
In addition to the standard budget allocations,
the ATC also reserves $10,000 as part of the
Improve Davidson Fund (IDF). Groups-‘must
apply for access to the fund, which is given
to special projects that serve the spirit of the
college’s mission statement. Those propos-
als are read by the ATC, which recommends
what it considers to be the strongest.

This year, the ATC recommended a pro-
posal written jointly by the college’s three a
capella groups: The Generals, The Delilahs

and Androgyny. The project would let the

singers work with special needs children
in area schools and holding singing work-

a
Be
ee

sident Ross ape to present a draft
bof the implementation plan to the Trustees,

WEDpNnEsDAY, APRIL 8, 2009

more. intefdigciplinary- study and that the.
tae na interdisciplinary majors

‘sufficient rigor. surrounding those and that
“they ting § studi

fundamental charter level, Provisional, al-
lows groups to recruit at the Student Activi-
ties Fair, advertise in the Crier and reserve
campus buildings.

Over the past few weeks, the Charters
and Bylaws Committee of the SGA evalu-
ated all chartered organizations and made
recommendations as to their charter status.
The SGA received and approved those rec-
ommendations on Thursday; no student or-
ganizations received a charter for a category

shops with them. These workshops would
culminate in a winter benefit concert where
the children would perform alongside the
a capella groups. The SGA will vote to ap-
prove the IDF allocation next week.

In other news, the SGA took advantage
of its new Charter’ III-A status to complete
a year-old effort to add the paid position of
publicity chair to its rank. The SGA voted to
add compensation for its publicity chair and
vice chair, who will receive compensation

im’s carcer-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

hint recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Caroling.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Puller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skiffs, With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent o¢ celsinal
conduct of others. :

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning, Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attomey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years a3 a

P rosser D. “Sandy” Camegie. has spent almost 30)

lower than that which they applied for. The of $600 and $200 for the year, respectively. Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinaaker Cove, and commissioner with the Towa of Davidson, has served on
three student organizations that received Those positions, which are currently unfilled, | steed the Davidson United Methodist Church. A siete aaiaattesagess \i0us Town of Davidson commiters he isa member
Charter III-A status were the SGA itself, the are appointed by the SGA President. mabe ofthe Lions Club, Fim alo serves on the TERS Mec cia Devidson College Presbyterian Church, sa menber of
: : : j ss : : boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M, and in has
Davidsonian and the Union Board. The publicity committee will be. tasked Conservancy, andthe Davidson Commutity layers and coached youth fowball, basketball and baseball in the
Once an organization submits a budget with maintaining an SGA web site, complete _} was recently appointed o the Town Planning Board. Davidson, Comelins and Mooresville communities,

to the ATC, it is reviewed by the council.
Following SGA approval, that becomes the
organization’s budget for the following aca-
demic year. The ATC distributes most of the
approximately $500,000 budget during the

igs”

F Poputut Cateaoric ~

+Weekend Calendar

Nou Business
Restaurant Listings
Town Hall News
Arts Scene

-t Davidson Blogs
‘Traffic Aler

«Ha,

with blogs and podcasts of SGA meetings,
in addition to other responsibilities. Before
the measure passed, the only paid positions
within the SGA were that of chancellor and
treasurer.

PS

Aes

LAW FIRM

APPEALS « BANKRUPTCY ¢ BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANSING

Recesit Headline

selfaep ti.
de

To)

rar Jde. &

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 + (704) 892-1699 « www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

LITIGATION « PERSONAL INIURY
REAL ESTATE « WILIS& TRISTS

NATE
