14 Tue DaviIpsonIAN

Curis YOUNG
Staff Writer

Over the next few months, we sports fans
will be lucky enough to see a rare occurrence.
The NBA playoffs will show us an athlete,
just entering his prime, who is already on the
brink of being talked about with the greatest
ever hype.

LeBron James has been a basketball sen-
sation since his junior season in high school.
Before his senior season, he was featured on
the cover of Sports Illustrated. James is al-
ready worth tens of millions of dollars. But
just how amazing is the greatness that we’re
witnessing?

Many basketball fans have been quick to
condemn James because of the attention that
is lavished upon him by the sports media. He
was anointed the savior of basketball and the
“next Michael Jordan,” a blasphemous com-
parison to many die-hards. I agree that the
media love gets tiresome. His every move is
chronicled. Dozens of microphones record
nearly every word he says. “The King,” at
24, has become a sports icon without even
winning a title. It does tend to grind on the
nerves.

I am writing to plead that we, as basket-
ball fans, stop and smell the roses. We must
remember that James is only 24. At 24, Mi-
chael Jordan was still a high draft pick with
the potential to bust. At 24, Kobe Bryant was
just achieving stardom.

LeBron has already led a moribund Cav-
aliers franchise to an NBA Finals appearance
(in 2007). He will undoubtedly capture his
first MVP trophy some time in the next few
weeks. We should also not forget that James
has started on a USA Basketball team that re-
claimed Olympic gold.

That, however, is only the beginning.
James puts up remarkable statistics, record-

SPORTS _
Witnessing Greatness: King James

ing astronomical numbers in points, re-
bounds, assists and steals. For a player so
young, he has always shown impressive un-
selfishness and the desire to win above all. In
other words, James fills the stat sheet without
trying to do so. He plays to win.

For James, the winning has begun. to ar-
rive in spades. With the 2007 Finals appear-
ance already in his pocket, LeBron led the
Cavs to a league-best 66-16 record this sea-
son. That would be impressive even if a cast
of all-stars played around him.

Let’s examine James’ actual teammates.
A lineup boasting Zydrunas Iigauskas, Mo
Williams, Delonte West and Anderson Vare-
jao does not exactly strike fear into the hearts
of opponents. Without James, the Cavaliers
likely would-not even reach a .500 record.
With him, they were the best team in the
league.

One could argue that plenty of great play-
ers have won big with lesser supporting casts.
Let’s take the Lakers, the league’s second
best team, as an example. Led by Kobe Bry-
ant, the Lakers managed 65 wins. As great a
player as Bryant has become, his supporting
cast consists of former all-stars Lamar Odom
and Pau Gasol. He has a young center in An-
drew Bynum that is drawing comparisons to
great centers of old.

There is absolutely no comparison be-
tween the two supporting casts. In spite of
this, LeBron’s team captured the best record
in the league.

We are watching greatness before our
own eyes. LeBron James keeps getting bet-
ter. Most basketball players tend to hit their
primes somewhere around the age of 27. Yet,
at 24, we still haven’t even seen James per-
form at the highest of his athletic capability.
Already a phenomenal athlete, the game’s
brightest star is only getting better.

We are lucky enough to see James play

. Baseball

Golf Men’s Tennis
(13-21, 8-10) (6-16, 2-8)
Results:
Results: 4/13-4/14 Palisades Invitational Results:

4/17 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 7-12

4/18 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 8-20

4/19 @ #23 Ga. Southern L 2-11
4/21 @ Radford L 6-12

Next Up:
4/22 vs. N.C. A&T
4/24-4/26 vs. UNCG

Notes:

After dropping four straight, the
*Cats hope to get back on the
winning track in their upcoming
weekend series against UNCG.

im's career-long track record of achieving
successful results for his clients bas camed
bim recognition throughout NC and among his

peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named §
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently |

for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, fim Fuller
a widely respected itial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment fo justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
conduct of others.

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Charch. A
maenaber of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

ARPEALS « BANRRUPTCY « BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS ¢ ESTATE PLANNING

Charlotte, N.C. 4/16 vs. App. State L 0-7
12th Place 4/17 vs. Charlotte L 2-5
419-4/21 SoCon Championship
Florence, S.C. Next Up:
7th place 4/23 SoCon Tournament
Next Up: First Round
Season Complete vs. Samford
Notes:
Michael Saari ’09 led the Wild- Notes:
cats in the SoCon tourney and After finishing the regular

received All-Conference honors
while Jackson Taylor ’12 was
named to the All-Freshman

the Wildcats are looking for
a spark of life in the SoCon
Tourney.

team.

sosser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries doe to another person's segligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
ag well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

in addition to his many responsibilities as an attomey,

Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community,
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, curreatly live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as 2
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, bas served on
vatious Town of Davidson committees, be is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and is has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Cometins and Mooresville communities.

Jim Fuller and “§

in ‘
tIitfog,
ss f
LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

LITIGATION « PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE » WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 + (704) 892-1699 * www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

season on a disappointing note,

WEpDnEsDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

in an era that is burgeoning with great young
players. Carmelo Anthony, Dwight Howard,
Chris Paul and Bryant all possess some of
the best talent the game has ever seen. Their
stars shine brightly, and they will not simply
lie down for James to hog all of the glory.

These playoffs will provide plenty of
drama, suspense and great basketball. The
story to watch, though, is the maturation of
James into an all-time great. Yes, I said it.
LeBron James is a breed that we have not yet
seen. He has remarkable athleticism, but that
is not what sets him apart. LeBron plays a
beautiful, unselfish game that is absolutely
fun to watch.

You may get tired of the hype, but I sug-
gest you stop and watch greatness unfold.

pressive, Chase Pita 709 wet oh
and | Pat Bradys 09 picked up three hi

Lebron James (center) reacts to a long three-pointer made by Stephen Curry ’10
during the Wildcats’ 72-67 victory over N.C. State on December 6 i in Charlotte.

a Rep

Lacrosse Track an Field Women’s Tennis
(6-10) (11-11, 6-4)
Results
Results: 4/11 Joe Hilton UNC Invitational Results
4/17 vs. Stanford L4-19 4/18 vs. Furman L 1-6
4/19 vs. Duke L 5-17 Next Up:
4/21 @ Presbyterian W 20-9 4/25-4/26 SoCon Outdoor Next Up:
Championships 4/24 SoCon Tournament
Next Up: Statesboro, G.A. First Round

Season Complete vs. Ga. Southern
Notes:

Notes: Alex Hoyt ’09 set a new school

Davidson lacrosse ended their record in the 3,000-meter run in Despite a spoiled Senior Day,
season on an impressive note the Joe Hilton UNC Invitational the Wildcats finished the season
with a 20-9 shellacking of which was good enough for a third with a .500 mark overall and a
Presbyterian College. place finish in his event. The "Cats winning record in the SoCon as

are looking to finish strong inthe they hope to make a run in the

SoCon Championships. SoCon Tourney.

3BR/2BA Lakefront Condo

Furnished w/3-4 beds & Washer-Dryer

School-Year Rental: $1200/mo August — May
Portside @ Davidson Landing

Notes:

Leather sofa, 2. TV’s, desk, grill

Huge furnished patio w/lake view
Tennis courts and Lakefront pool
Largest sand beach on Lake Norman
Incredible Sunset views

Lakefront gazebo on docks

634 Portside Drive / Jpavers@aol.com
