ed. numerous mails regard ing 3 what man

oe ee a

The Davidsonian

@ ALENDA LUX. UBI ORTA LIBERTAS @

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
wa Managing Editor
Kate Kelly
News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris
Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editors
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers ¢
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright
Online Editor °
Greg Newman
Content Manager
Kelly Beggs
Assistant Copy Editor
Alex Kowaleski

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College. One copy per student. Please
address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box 7182,
Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
letters to the editors or commentaries do not necessarily reflect
the views of the Editorial Board of The Davidsonian. Subscrip-
tions cost $55.00 per year, or $30 per semester. Advertising rates are
available upon request.

Copyright is held by the Trustees of Davidson College.

~ LIVES

THE DaAvIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Fesruary 25, 2009

Sustainability not found on Court

KELLy BEGGS
Guest Columnist

I am probably the most incompetent bartender that
Patterson Court has ever seen. The first and only time I
bartended, I didn’t anticipate the rush and was doomed to
spend the -rest of the evening frantically opening cans.
Luckily, a friend had told me to open the cans with a spoon
because if you don’t, your hands will start to bleed—at a 25
case limit, you can open up to 600 cans in three and a half
hours. As I opened can after can and handed off Solo cup
after Solo cup, I realized that I was participating in one of the
most wasteful and environmentally irresponsible enterprises
on Davidson’s campus: the Patterson Court party.

My bartending experience showed me that the “play hard”
of our “work hard, play hard” mentality may be inherently
unsustainable. Sure, you can at least recycle the 600 beer
cans, but solo cups have a number six resin identification
code, and our campus only recycles 1’s and 2’s.

That means well over a thousand Solo Cups get thrown
away every weekend without even counting parties not
affiliated with Patterson Court. Plastic is not biodegradable,
so after the solo cup goes into the dumpster it will live a
long, full life, perhaps eventually retiring to the Great Pacific
Garbage Patch, a gyre of mostly plastic debris in the Pacific
Ocean which is larger-than the state of Texas.

Well over a thousand Solo Cups get

thrown away every weekend without

even counting parties not affiliated
with Patterson Court.

Despite plastic’s hazardous environmental impact, Solo
cups remain an integral part of our social scene, largely
because they help ease the tension between the campus
police and underage drinkers. The “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell”
policy we follow keeps Patterson Court more peaceful, as
the Solo Cup’s red or blue color shields the cup’s contents
from view. Because of Solo Cups, Davidson’s campus police
can enforce the law while remaining sensitive to the college
environment.

The relationship between the student body and campus
police will certainly suffer if policy creates a situation where
underage drinkers drink beer from clear compostable cups
under police supervision. A recyclable or compostable opaque
cup would be a solution, but unfortunately compostable
opaque cups cost about 40 cents per cup, twice as much as the

average Solo cup. To my knowledge, recyclable opaque cups
(for us, a one or two resin identification code) do not exist.
Kegs have often been brought up as a way to reduce our
consumption of cans, but unfortunately, when insurance
companies hear the word, they immediately think keg
stand. Copious studies discourage allowing kegs on college
campuses, as kegs typically encourage alcohol abuse.

The easiest Solo Cup reduction would
come not from a policy change, but
from individual effort

The EIC looked into bringing kegs back last year and
found that fraternities have national insurance policies that
prohibit kegs. Eating houses do not have national policies,
but are insured by the college, and Dean Shandley was highly
skeptical that the college’s insurance provider would accept a
keg comeback with open arms. He pointed out that even if we
did have kegs, the Solo Cup problem would persist.

In an ideally sustainable world we’d spend our weekends
sipping keg beer from compostable cups, but the road to this
vision is riddled with red tape. All of the problems mentioned
above make a sustainable Patterson Court seem inconceivable.
However, one solution that both Sustainability Fellow Kealy
Devoy and Dean Shandley cited was reducing the amount
of Solo Cups at parties even if we cannot eliminate them.
Reduction could be achieved by allowing 21-year-olds to
drink out of cans at parties, especially if they plan to drink
in the basement.

Still, the easiest Solo Cup reduction would come not
from a policy change, but from individual effort—simply
from people reusing their cups. About two people continually
reused when I was bartending, and more people certainly
could and should follow their example, myself included.

Finding a sustainable solution that works for the many
parties involved in our party scene may take quite some time,
as change is bound to happen at a slow pace when trying

‘to revise a policy that succeeds in many aspects. Creating a

dialogue about the wastefulness of Patterson Court’s policies,
however, is essential if Davidson is in fact committed to its
Year of Sustainability.

While we wait for a larger shift to sustainable drinking
policies, we can certainly try to reuse our cups—the
environment and studens who have to do house clean up will
thank us.

Kelly Beggs ’09 is an English major from Boca Raton,
Fla, Contact her at kebeggs@davidson.edu.

Star-Spangled Banner: drinking song

ANJAN MUKHERJEE
Perspectives Editor

A week ago, the Davidson Men’s Basketball team hosted
The Citadel at Belk Arena for a Southern Conference regular
season game. As is now customary with most (read: all) ma-
jor sporting events, the American national anthem —the Star-
Spangled Banner—was sung before the game began.

I don’t know when this phenomenon started, but some-
where along the road, performers of the Star-Spangled Ban-
ner began to take some liberties. Cut to Wednesday night, and
many were awkwardly frustrated at how the song was sung.

Let’s clear up a few points before going further. As we
were, taught many years ago, Francis Scott Key wrote the
words to the song after seeing Fort McHenry bombed during
the War of 1812. The melody of the song, however, was noth-
ing new. In fact, the tune is directly derived from an old Brit-
ish drinking song called, “To Anacreon In Heaven.” The song
is supposed to be sung (or played) at a march-like tempo.

Next time you’re at a bar, Patterson Court party, senior
apartment-or, better yet, sporting event, and everyone starts
singing a drinking song, think about how ridiculous it would
seem if someone tried to give the most soulful rendition of
“Ninety-nine Bottles of Beer on the Wall.” In fact, picture
that right now. I know if my friends did that, I would have no
choice but to pick up whatever is closest and hurl it at them.

The “Whitney Houston” version of the Star-Spangled
Banner only makes sense in a setting such as “American
Idol,” where contestants need to show off talent in a very
little amount of time in order to please some has-been who
has nothing better to do than critique a throng of youngsters.

Before you say, “But Anjan! Whitney Houston sang the
song at the Super Bow!! Isn’t that a sporting event?” Sure it

is. But it’s also one of the biggest shows of the year. The Su-
perbowI is 90 percent production. The halftime show and the
commercials are publicized greatly—sometimes more than
the actual matchup. The Star-Spangled Banner sung at the
Super Bowl is more for show than anything else.

Next, let us look at Jimi Hendrix’s version of the song.
He deviated from the traditional style of the song too. But
he had reasons for doing so. Hendrix would use bends and
slides to demonstrate the bombs and rockets mentioned in
the song. Also, he played the tune at his own concerts, where
he was the main attraction. People literally came to see him
perform; therefore, he was not crossing the line by stretching
the boundaries in which the song had previously existed.

I don’t know when this phenomenon
started, but somewhere along the
road, performers of the Star-Spangled
Banner began to take some liberties.

Don’t be mistaken; last Wednesday’s debacle wasn’t the
only instance of someone butchering the tune: it’s a continu-
ing trend that only seems to be getting worse. If I didn’t know
the melody of the song, I certainly wouldn’t have been able
to decipher it by the end. Consider this a plea above any-
thing else. Singers at sporting events must realize that people
don’t come to hear them sing; their job is to pay tribute to this
country and those who serve to protect it. Turning it into an
“American Idol” audition is insulting. Kids these days...

Anjan Mukherjee ’09 is a music major from Chevy Chase,
Mad. Contact him at anmukherjee@davidson.edu.
