THE DAVIDSONIAN

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Wildcat wrestlers fall at Duke, but rebound with

with strong perfromance at Davidson Open

PETER COSTA
Staff Writer

Davidson wrestling hosted Duke Univer-
sity on Wednesday, December 2, for their an-
nual clash.

The Wildcats got off to a nice start as Ben
Altman ’10 pinned Duke’s Nick Adamo in
3:40. This matchup in the 125 pound weight
class gave the Wildcats the start they desired.
In the 133 pound weight class, Nico Cortese
defeated Alex Radsky ’11 7-5. In the 141
pound weight class, Vitaly Radsky ’11 would
add onto the Wildcats’ early lead with a 10-2
win over Mike Bell. After Radsky’s win, the
Wildcats led 10-3, and it looked like they
would beat Duke for the second consecutive
meeting.

Blue Devil wins at 149 and 157 pounds
erased the Wildcat lead. Duke led by a slim
14-13 margin after Joe McGinley ’11 defeat-
ed Spencer Jasper in the 165 pound match.
Unfortunately, that is as close as the Wildcats
would get as Duke swept the 174, 184, 197,
and 285 pound weight matches. The final
score was Duke 36 Davidson 13.

The Wildcats hoped to bounce back
when it hosted several teams in the Davidson
Open. Each member of the Wildcats partici-
pated in their own weight class bracket. Scott
Ray 13 wrestled in the 133 pound weight di-
vision. After an early loss, Ray bounced back
advancing to the third place match, where he
lost to Virginia Tech’s Jared Jones.

Alex Radsky ’11 also wrestled in the 133
pound weight division. He was brilliant, ad-
vancing all the way to the final where he de-
feated Chris Spencer 3-1.

“Tt was a great day for Alex, and this win
was something he really needed for his con-
fidence coming off of an injury,” head coach
Bob Patnesky said. “This should kick-start
him as we move ahead in the season.”

Two Wildcats participated in the 125
pound division. Altman went all the way to
the semi-finals before bowing out to Gardner
Webb’s Michael Slaughter. Altman defeated
Chris Jones to take third place. Matt Zarth
713 also competed in the 125 pound weight
division. Like Altman, Zarth advanced to the
semi-finals before falling to CJ Hamilton.

In the 141 pound weight division, Vitaly
Radsky advanced to the quarterfinals before
bowing out to Spartanburg Methodist’s Chris
Teague. At 157, pound weight class, Brent
Mowry *13 and Joe McGinley ’11 lost in the
quarterfinals. Jorge Estrada ’12 advanced to
the semi-finals before losing to Newbury’s
TJ Cayruth.

In the 184 pound division, Ike Crews *13
lost in the semi-finals to Jonathan Velasquez
from Gardner Webb. In the 285 pound di-
vision, Charlie Wolff ’11, like Radsky, ad-
vanced all the way to the finals. He wrestled
exceptionally well before falling to Gardner
Webb’s Dustin Porter.

The Wildcats return to action on Decem-
ber 18 when they host Southern Conference
rival Chattanooga at Belk Arena.

Cork. It actually does grow on trees. To keep a natural balance
between manufacturing practices and the environment, Birkenstock
supports using renewable resources like cork.

Balance and support? Just like a pair of our clogs.

Now in stock at

WHIT MILLER’S
Shoe Store & Repair

122 North Main Street
Mooresville, NC 28115

704-664-4109
fax: 704-660-6461

Receive $20 off purchase price with this ad
Expires 2/1/10

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009 11

Women’s Basketball vs. Wofford
December 13, 2 p.m.
Belk Arena

The Wildcats look to continue
their hot start in conference
play when the take on the Terri-
ers in another SoCon match-up.
Alex Thompson ‘10 leads David-
son with 12.9 points per game
while Wofford counters with
Maddie Helms who averages
11.6 points per contest.

Outside the Den

College Football
Army (5-6) vs. Navy (8-4)
Philadelphia, P.A.
Saturday 2:30 p.m.

Army and Navy conclude the
college football regular season
with their 110th all-time meet-
ing. The Midshipmen have won
seven in a row in the series, but
the Black Knights hope to snap
that streak as a victory would
send them to a bowl game for

the first time since 1996.

’Cats, from page 12
taineer offense late in the game. But too late
perhaps. The post trio of Julia Paquette ’10
Kristen Johnson ’12, and Aleksandravicius
shaved the lead to seven—within range. But
the gap held constant as the game went to
free-throws, with the ’Cats falling 68-59.

Heading into the long winter break
stretch, the team narrows its focuses to the
next game, rather than the whole sweep of
matchups. “I only look to the next game —
the next game is a big one,” Watts said. “And
when you’ve gotateam as young as ours
is, you better believe the next one.”

In those close second half matchups, the
team condenses its attention to even smaller
time periods. Watts said, “every time in the
huddle we’re talking about our four minute
game,” the spaces of time between the media
timeouts. When those precious moments di-
vide the W and L columns, the team doesn’t
have to look long-term. But at this rate, the
long- term. looks eo

ronal: Injury Attorneys.

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

opped Davidson to
2f<in the: Southern Co

im’s career-long track record of achiewing

suocessful results for his clients has earned years representing clients who have suffered

hint recognition throughout NC and among his substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
peers in the legal field nationwide, He has been named or criminal conduc, always with the client’s best interest
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of law inchiding, contract preparation and review, residential

the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Caroling.
Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge. Jim Fuller's
a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,

and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
ag well a8 zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Vurgivia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedivated to his family and to his community.

he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, curreatly live
who have been injured by the negligent ox cxizainal in the family homeplace, Sandy and Robbie have two grown
conduct of others. children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a

commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
4 Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of

Jin and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church, Ag

member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the Jim Fuller and “Sandy °C

boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands S Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and in has
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and THe coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board. Davidson, Comnelivs and Mooresville conmaunities.

gcd ittogp

APPEALS » BANKRUPTCY ¢ BUSINESS LAW ( ‘ x TTIGATION * PERSONAL INJURY

LAW FIRM LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY
COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANNING Exceptional storeys. Clase 10 Home REAL ESTATE * WHES& THUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 * (704) 892-1699 « wew.meintoshlawfirm.com
