4 Tue DaAvIpSONIAN

ae =~. A
Russell Banks, from page 3

that feels and looks like the world you’ re try-
ing to place your characters in. And to do
that, you need information and details.

The setting for your novel “The Re-
serve” is your home. Why is it important
to you to write about your home, and to
fictionalize it like that?

Well, I’ve also written about places where
I’ve never lived, places I have visited, like
Liberia and Africa, Haiti and the Caribbean,
Jamaica, and so on. But specifically upstate
New York, I’ve only lived there since 1987.
I grew up in New Hampshire and Massachu-
setts. But it happens that that region has a
kind of resonance for me, an emotional live-
liness, I guess is the way to put it, or vitality,
for me.

Not for everybody else. I don’t know if
it’s the landscape or the people. You know,
so much depends upon what you bring to a
place when you go there. Other parts of the
country, New York City, ’ve never written
about. And I’m not sure why. But I think it’s
because of what I brought to that place, who
I was when IJ went there.

I was responsive in a way that I wasn’t
when I was in New York City or in New Jer-
sey or North Carolina. Can’t tell you why.
It’s like some places enter into your dream
life and others don’t. Why is that? Why are
your dreams set in one place and not in an-
other? One place where your dreams are set
may be a place you only lived briefly. And
then another place, where you lived a lot of
your life, you never dream about.

Do you have any advise for aspiring
writers at Davidson?

Yeah, don’t quit your day job! That’s the
first piece of advice! No, seriously, don’t
quit your day job. Get a day job! Here’s the
thing I found: you need three things for your
apprenticeship. You need your peers. You

APPLICATIONS DUE:
2/27/09

abroad.

ABERNETHY AWARDS
ROUND 2

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernety
Endowment will be available to support worthy initiatives
by current first year, sophomore, or junior students.

Individual awards fall into one of the following categories:

1) Independent student research, either in the US or
2) Cross-cultural study opportunities for students during
the academic year or the summer.

At the request of the donor, applications are limited
to projects that fall within the humanities and social sciences.

News

need to find other young writers and to have
regular access to them and their reading lists,
the books that excite them, their point of
view, the world that is moving them. What
issues are important to them are the same
ones likely to be true for you too.

You need to find your contemporaries,
other young writers. Be around them. Learn
from them. And sharpen your own blade
against their steel. And then you do need a
mentor, I think. You need someone in your
life. It doesn’t have to be for very long. It
can be rather brief, as it was in my own case.
But someone you can use not necessarily as
an editor or teacher, but as a model.

And the third thing you need in your ap-
prenticeship is some way to get out of the
economy, at least for a few years. I pumped
gas in Florida and lived in a little ten-dollar
a week trailer. Spent a couple of years bum-
ming around, you know, getting by. Writing
my first stories and poems. But I was out of
the economy.

Your parents will hate you for that, and
they'll try to get you not to do it. But you do
need that. You’ve got to find a way to step
outside.

It’s almost impossible to write and read as
much as you have to, especially during those
early years, unless you can somehow find a
way to get yourself out of the economy. And
I mean out of the rat race.

I basically cut myself loose from the
template that society was trying to move over
me to guide and organize my life for me. And
that’s difficult. I think it’s especially difficult
today, since there’s so much more coercion
on young writers and artists to conform.

You really have to be willing and able to
float freely for a few years and withstand the
kind of criticism you’re going to get when
people think you’re wasting your time and
your talent and your dreams. But you’re not.
You’re gaining experience that will stand
you in good stead later.

Application forms are available in the Office of the Vice
President for Academic Affairs (Chambers 1283). Completed
application forms are due back in this office no later than
5:00 p.m. on Friday, February 27, 2009.

The announcement of awards should occur prior to the exam
period of the spring semester.

Inauguration, from page 1

Capitol, some people found it impossible to
get through security in time to hear President
Obama take the oath.

Katherine Johnson ’10 woke up in D.C.
at 7:00 a.m. and, ticket in hand, walked to-
wards a very crowded Mall. After futilely
standing in line for two-and-a-half hours to
clear security, she turned back to go watch
the inauguration ceremony on the television
in her hotel’s lobby lest she miss the whole
event because of inefficient management.

Johnson, who worked for the Obama
campaign before and during the primaries,
put her disappointment into perspective. She
said “ultimately, it is a good thing that our
President can drive those crowds to D.C. and
get people enthusiastic about U.S. politics
again.”

In the end, it didn’t matter to people where
they watched the ceremony or that President
Obama and Chief Justice Roberts stumbled
through the oath of office. As the magazine
The Economist remarked, “for many, the
thrill of the moment lay not in what [Obama]
said, but in who he was.”

Watching the inauguration on TV, along
with the other 38 million Americans who did

‘ore the budget review’ was performed. ‘The
_ agreement stipulated that he would double
: funding s student nt supporters could raise ‘from

ould encounter. so much opposition from:
the student body. The Jabyrinth had. strong

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009

tion that Obama inspires. People everywhere
were crying and cheering simultaneously...
It was like one giant celebration,” she re-
marked.

Yet amid the cheers, neither the President
nor his audience forgot the country’s eco-
nomic downturn, the ongoing wars abroad in
Iraq and Afghanistan, or the looming energy
crisis.

In his address, President Obama con-
fronted such issues, asserting that “the chal-
lenges we face are real. They are serious and
they are many. They will not be met easily or
in a short span of time. But know this, Amer-
ica-they will be met.”

Now, a week after this exceptional event,
people are turning to see how the new presi-
dency acts on these real issues. “This appears
to be a new era of politics,” Matt Bondaryk
’09 said. “I simply hope that the interest and
the democratic participation that we saw
during the elections and on January 20" can
continue. If President Obama wants to en-
sure change, he’s going to have to engage the
American public in politics in a way that no
president has before.”

Based on the unprecedented enthusiasm
surrounding the inauguration ceremony, it
seems President Obama has already begun

If the ATC had sensed that the student bo
Jeemed this artistic and spiritual projec
worthy: addition to campus, dhe committee
could have voted, cut the check. and buil
labyrinth without much hassle.
While there. have: been serious discus
$ regarding ‘losses’ to the endowmen’
due to the falling market, and the Collegs
‘has considered areas in which to cut backs. :

many spending initiatives on campus seem |
to have-remained the same; Soi it seems odd ©

that something so promising as a labyrinth,

Crisis reporter to visit

Katie Lovett
Staff Writer

Jon Sawyer, director of the Pulitzer Cen-
ter on Crisis Reporting, will be speaking at
Davidson College on Feb. 2 at 7 p.m. in Ty-
ler-Tallman Hall, located in the Sloan Music
Center. The lecture is free and open to the
public with no ticket required. The Pulitzer
Center on Crisis Reporting is a non-profit or-
ganization that funds independent reporting
with the hope of raising the standard of me-
dia coverage regarding international affairs.

After a 31-year career with the St. Lou-
is Post-Dispatch, the only major citywide
newspaper in St. Louis, Missouri, Sawyer
became the center’s founding director earlier
this year. He was the Post-Dispatch Wash-
ington bureau chief from 1993 through 2005
and had been a member of the newspaper’s
Washington bureau since 1980. Prior to this,
he worked as an editorial writer before tran-
sitioning to work as a staff reporter.

Sawyer’s assignments have allowed
him to travel to about five-dozen countries,
including Cuba, Haiti, the former Soviet
Union, Bosnia, Israel, and China. However,
since September 11, the Middle East and
predominantly Muslim countries have been
Sawyer’s focus.

In 2003 he reported on a four-nation tour
through the Middle East prior to the Iraq War
before reporting from Afghanistan in 2004.

The National Press Club has named Saw-
yer the best foreign reporter three years in a
row, and the Overseas Press Club, the Inter-
American Press Association, and the School
of Foreign Service at Georgetown University
have also honored his work.

After reporting on defense procurement
contract abuses, Sawyer received the top
investigative reporting prize among large
newspapers from IRE (Investigative Report-
ers and Editors). Additionally, the Atomic
Industrial Forum and the American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science honored
his reporting on the issue of nuclear waste
disposal.

Sawyer was bor in Winston-Salem,
North Carolina and graduated from the Phil-
lips Exeter Academy. Sawyer’s educational
background includes a B.A. degree from
Yale University in 1974, where he majored in
English Literature and History before mov-.
ing on to be an Alfred Sloan Fellow in Eco-
nomics Journalism at Princeton University’s
Woodrow Wilson School of Public Policy
from 1978-1979.

Sawyer was a research fellow affiliated
with the Center on Press, Politics, and Pub-
lic Policy at Harvard University’s John F.
Kennedy School of Government in 1992.
Attending this lecture will be an excellent
opportunity for those wishing to gain expo-
sure to such a pioneering force in the field of
journalism.

