THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009 5

nal Asian cuisine, Also’a popilar: item.
$ the Taiwanese Bubble T éa madé- from:

“fal pings rear “Bubble

ae

Tatees in the “evening a cultural. pet
ormance took place on the bottom floor,
of the Alvarez College Union. Following.

» the acrobatic dancing of three traditional
_ Chinese dragons were martial arts demon-
_strations by: students of the Hungar Kung:

Foo Academy of Mooresville, Davidson.

. sophomore: Kim Zhang starred in his own.
" martial arts act. “This is a great event for.
' Davidson to have,” he said. “It. shows the:
community’s’ strong ‘sense of. diversity,
_Said Zhang. He enjoys partaking in the ce.
_ebration because he likes the fact that “it:
_a cultural advertisement that will educate.
_ people about the Chinese traditions.” Oth-:

_ er performances were put on by the Little:

é Lotus Troupe, which featured young girls:

"from the Davidson community performing

traditional Chinese dances.

“>The celebration ended with a fireworks

‘display located outdoors on the Davidson,

,Campus.. This year’s event. was an im-

2 Mense, success, as it drewsa plethora of,

2 Asian culture’ enthusiasts eager to partic.
» pate in the colorful festivities.

a8

SGA
Presidential
Debate

Ra Ra Riot Press

Opening acts Ra Ra Riot (top) and Cold War Kids (bottom) are scheduled to open for Death Cab
for Cutie at this semester’s Spring Concert.

Student Organization Charters

A Jan. 21 article, “Charter reform explored,” incorrectly
stated that student organization charters are never renewed.
at Davidson. In fact, charters must be renewed each year.

Thur. 1/29

7:30 p.m.

Misleading Basketball Headline

The Jan. 21 headline “Cats rolling as record SoCon
streak reached 37” was misleading. The Davidson men’s
basketball team currently holds the second-longest con-
ference-win streak in SoCon history. The record holder is
West Virgina, who tallied 44-straight league victories from
1956 to 1960.

900 Room

hosted by

The Davidsonian

The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any
errors in reporting through printed corrections.
Please conact us at
davidsonian @davidson.edu if you
identify any such errors.

aaa
