2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

a 4 7“

News

— a — a —

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009

Students from Davidson, abroad sow Seeds of Peace

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

This Monday, Muna Al-Hadeed visited
campus to discuss Seeds of Peace, a non-
profit summer camp dedicated to establish-
ing relationships and opening discussion be-
tween youth of war-torn nations.

A current junior at Lehigh University, Al-
Hadeed grew up in Amman, Jordan and first
visited the United States in 2004 as a camper
at Seeds of Peace near Portland, Maine. She
returned to the camp as a participant in 2006,
and again this summer, when she served as a
counselor for a new generation of campers.
In 2009 she met Kaela Frank ’11, who was
also working at the camp and encouraged A]-
Hadeed to visit Davidson.

Al-Hadeed explained that her family was
heavily invested in the dynamics of the con-

“Not every kid comes out of
Seeds of Peace saying, ‘In
ten years I just want to write
a peace treaty and make the
world a better place.’”

-Muna Al-Hadeed

flict and that she was well-versed in the rhet-
oric of the debate long before hearing about
Seeds of Peace. Her mother grew up on the
West Bank, which her family was forced to
vacate when she was eight years old.

“T didn’t know what to expect,” Al-Ha-
deed recalled, “other than that I had an im-
age in my mind of an Israeli being a person
in a uniform, holding a gun.” She explained
that her family had known many people who
had died and suffered as a result of the con-
flict, and that she called Israelis “the Enemy”
growing up.

Seeds of Peace was founded in 1993 by
John Wollach, editor of the Hearst newspa-
per, after he attended a dinner party where
several international presidents and ambas-

antage €, 80

must, § submit an nxn and: Personal,

We'd Like

im’s career-long track record of achieving

saceessful results for his clients has eamed

him zeoognition throughout NC and among bis
peers in the legal field nationwide, He has been named
fo the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Saper Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

Aza former NC Court of Appeals Judge, firs Fulleris

a widely respected trial lawyer known throught the
State for this commitment to justice and his excephonal
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he bas dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent o erieueal
conduct of others.

Jina and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Cherch. A
member of the Livns Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy. and the Davidson Commenity Players and
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS « BANKRUPTCY « BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

dim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie !

gicdtogy
LAW FIRM

Exceptional Adorneys... Close to Home

sadors were in attendance. Asked to give a
toast, Wollach proposed the idea of an inter-
active project for the national youth of war-
torn nations.

His speech was met with dismissive
laughter, but the next day, Wollach held a
press conference confirming his intention of
realizing the project. Although the founding
committee did not have access to the neces-
sary resources, they managed to pull their
venture off, and 46 Israeli, Palestinian and
Egyptian students participated in the first
Seeds of Peace camp in 1993.

Today, the camp serves about 160 to 190
students per session, focusing on two ma-
jor regions of conflict: the Middle East and
South Asia. Participants, who range from 14
to 17 years old, travel to Maine from Israel,
Palestine, Jordan, Egypt, India, Pakistan and
Afghanistan, and students from the United
States participate in the camp as well.

Students from every country are present
at each session, but discussion groups and
activities are divided so students from com-
bating nations can have a focused, productive
encounter with individuals they may have
once considered their country’s “enemy.”

Al-Hadeed explained that the selection
process differs by region: Israel is the strict-
est, sending candidates through administra-
tive hoops in the Ministry of Education and
other institutions. In India and Pakistan, stu-
dents are drawn from pre-selected schools
supported by the U.S. State Department. In
Jordan, news about Seeds of Change spreads
by word of mouth, since the program is not
well-regarded by many local individuals and
institutions.

Al-Hadeed recounted that she first heard
about the program through family friends
who suggested it to Al-Hadeed’s parents as
an alternative to sending her to study in the
USS. for an entire year. She explained that the
application process was rigorous and intense,
including interview panels with six or seven
interviewers grilling her on recent current
events and political awareness.

In addition to academic and social in-
quiry; Seeds of Peace introduces campers to

y Attorneys

rosser D. “Sandy” Camegic, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to anather person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest
above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as well as zoning. Sandy is ficensed to practice before ail
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia

In addition to his many responsibilities as an aitomey,

Sandy is dedicated to his family aud to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grawa
children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served mang years as
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, bas served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson Coliege Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE @ WHS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 « (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

WAS

WINN

courtesy pho

2009 campers participate in Seeds of Peace’s annual International dinner, when
students dress in traditional dress and counselors prepare their national cuisine.

other activities, like sports, music, art, drama
and dance. “It’s a different way for them to
interact with each other,” Al-Hadeed said.
“Instead of vocalizing what they want to say,
they can express their emotions through ac-
tivities.”

The core of the experience is daily two-
hour “dialogue sessions,” where students

share their own backgrounds and discuss
the international conflict. Al-Hadeed recalls
coming to her first dialogues prepared with
documents supporting her arguments about
the Israel-Palestine conflict.

“It definitely gets heated,” Al-Hadeed

See Seeds, page 3

VISIT 14316 REESE BLVD, STE B OR:
CALL 1- -888- 827- 5301 TODAY TO LEARN MORE

©2008, Paid for by the United States Army. All rights resery
