2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

hime

News

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

“ ~<a = -s

Bernard Society hosts renowned mathematician

CARLYLE GLANCE
Staff Writer

This past Sunday, Davidson College in-
vited renowned mathematician Joseph A.
Gallian, Professor of Mathematics at Univer-
sity of Minnesota Duluth, to give a lecture
to The Bernard Society of Mathematics. The
Bernard Society is made up of departmental
majors and others with outstanding interest
and ability in mathematics.

Each year the society invites a prominent
authority on mathematics to come and speak
at the college. Gallian was contacted to speak
this year as many members of the mathemat-
ics department have seen him at different
lectures at found him very approachable and
enthusiastic.

All of the Bernard society lectures are
open to alumni as well as the current student
body and the general public in order to pro-
mote interest and activity in mathematics.

This year Gallian was invited to give two
lectures, one on Sunday at 8 p.m. and a sec-
ond, different lecture at 4 p.m. Monday. Ac-
cording to Donna Molinek, Associate Profes-
sor of Mathematics (who acted as Gallian’s
host and guide for his stay in Davidson), his
lecture Sunday night used group actions to
create tilings of the hyperbolic plane pictures

‘ustrateg both the quality f the Davidson.
“education and the success of its ‘graduates,
‘It begins by naming Davidson as.a.“high-
ty selective” institution, and. this. phras

‘speaks for the rigorous admissions num

bers. “Its content aims to distinguish Da-*
“vidson from peer institutions, Gibson liked.
the final draft, saying, “Now employers can_,
see Davidson in a brief, easy format.” j
The cover letter is not a helpful tool to
all students, ‘however. For students who
have below or only slightly above the ave
18. GPA, employers and admissior

egistrar 1 Hansford. Epes _ said that- it
most eon that students: ‘know that

ast’ liberat arts ‘college of similar stand
1g ‘and. average GPAs There has been in

e don’t just mail it out in a blanket

n,” Dr, Epes said, “It is available to_
anyone, tat only: recommended for the stu
dents. to show that their GPA is among th
top in the class?

similar to those of M.C. Es-
cher.

Gallian’s lecture Monday
was on the codes used for driv-
er’s licenses and how to deci-
pher them. Both lectures were
well attended, with Monday’s
filling Hance Auditorium.

As a speaker, Gallian was
filled with energy. Throughout
his Monday afternoon lecture,
he seemed on the edge of ex-
cited laughter. It was clear that
despite the 20 years since the
beginning of his experiments
with the codes he still had a
passion for the subject. His
personality was contagious
and the lecture was informal
and fun. He took time to ex-
plain his processes of investi-
gation and took great pleasure
in describing all the details,
making it very easy to follow,
even for someone without
much knowledge of math-
ematics.

After explaining the pro-
cess he used to decipher the
license plate codes, which he
insisted was not mathematical
but a scientific recognizing
of patterns, he showed letters from various
states in reply to his letter to ask for samples
of their license codes. The letters he showed
were hilarious, with one state claiming to not
know how they code their numbers.

Both students and faculty enjoyed the lec-
ture. “I loved his talks,” Molinek said. “They
were relatively easy to follow, very entertain-
ing, and suggested questions that an audience
could think about on their own.”

Gallian is an incredibly popular speaker,
having given over 300 lectures at different
national and regional meetings, colleges
and universities. Despite his experiences, he

Above, Joseph Gallian meets Davidson stude:
sor of Mathematics at the University of Minnesota
the codes of driver’s licenses.

stated that Davidson “set a new standard for
hospitality.”

“He said that Davidson was very nice,”
Molinek said. “He loved the labels on the
plants and trees around campus, he appreci-
ated our hospitality and enjoyed his interac-
tions with the students.”

The Bernard Society hopes that the lec-
tures encourage more creative pursuits in
mathematics. Molinek said that she hoped
students learned that “any question can turn
into an interesting exploration that may or
may not have uses outside the original prob-
lem and that will almost always cause you to

nts and faculty after his lecture. Gallian is a Profes-
Duluth, and is known for his work on breaking

think about things in a new way, show sur-
prising patterns, and give lots of mathemati-
cal pleasure along the way.”

Indeed, Gallian’s deciphering of the
driver’s license codes allowed him to help a
scientist research a cure for cancer. The sci-
entist needed to find citizens of a state, but
was unable to find them, however through
the decoding of their driver’s license codes
(one of the few pieces of information the
state could find) Gallian brought out valu-
able information. It only goes to show that
the seemingly most trivial pursuit can yield
unexpected benefits.

Eco House’s “tour” to showcase local farms

CLAIRE ITTNER
Staff Writer

It is almost impossible to open a newspa-
per or magazine today without running across
a story about the Green Movement’s latest
development: locally grown food. There are
dozens of web sites devoted to helping the
environmentally conscious find community
farmers’ markets and organic stores, a new
bestseller about the trials and rewards of the
“100-mile diet” and a burgeoning public in-
terest in fresh sustenance. There is even a
term for those who swear to eat only food
grown near their homes: the locavore.

Davidson is no different: the local food
movement has recently made its presence
even more known on campus, thanks to the
efforts of the Eco House.

The aptly-named “Farm Tour” will take
place on Saturday, September 19 and will
allow Davidson students to get a behind the
scenes look at sustainable farming, see first-
hand how their food is grown, and (best of
all) eat along the way.

There a total are nine farms participating
in the program. The farms range from a gour-
met mushroom farm to an ostrich ranch. If a
visit to each of the farms proves too daunt-
ing, students may choose which farms appeal
most to them.

For the residents of the Eco House, now
in its third year, locally grown food is noth-
ing new. Kristina Johnson, a senior Religion
major and “foodie,” or food director, at the
Eco House, estimates that 90 percent of the
food that the Eco House buys is local. Only

chocolate, coffee and certain exotic fruits are
excluded—everything else is bought at the
Farmer’s Market, from farmers in the com-
munity, or at local stores such as the Brad-
ford Store or the Home Economist.

The benefits of buying close to home,
said the residents of the Eco House, are
worth the sacrifice of a one-stop grocery run.
Locally grown produce, for example, is not
only fresher, but also generally has more va-
riety than the genetically conformed fruits
and vegetables at the supermarket.

The local food movement, with its em-
phasis on neighborhood values, also seems

“If you buy from a Har-
ris Teeter, the percentage
of money that stays in the
community is in the single
digits.”
-Kristina Johnson ’10

custom-made for a tight-knit community
such as Davidson. “If you buy from a Har-
ris Teeter, the percentage of money that stays
in the community is in the single digits,”
Johnson said. Buying locally supports small
businesses and keeps revenue in the hands of
Davidson residents. Not to mention, Johnson
said, “the food tastes better.”

All nine farms on the tour are located
within a 30-mile radius of Davidson, but the
term “local” is one that is often used loosely.
“There are a lot of definitions,” Johnson said.

“All of the food we buy [at the Eco House]
is grown within 30 miles, but that is actually
a rather tight radius.” Many restaurants that
define themselves as “local” buy from pro-
ducers as far as 300 miles away.

Davidson’s Eco House, located on Main
Street across from the Student Health Cen-
ter, is the center of sustainability on campus.
The 10 residents, besides their commitments
to house duties and eating locally-grown
food, are responsible for educating the stu-
dent body about issues of sustainability and
the environment.

In addition to the farm tour, this semester
the Eco House is sponsoring “Tea Times,”
modeled after the weekly Dean Rusk inter-
nationally focused discussions, every other
Friday from 3-4 p.m. The topic of the first
Eco-House Tea Time, scheduled for Septem-
ber 11, will be the toxins in hygiene products.
A cheese-making course, environmentally-
themed films at the Union and a documentary
about the Eco House are also in the works for
this year.

For those Davidson students who are in-
terested in becoming at least more local in
their food choices, if not a complete locavore,
there are plenty of easy options available.

The Davidson Farmer’s Market, open on
Saturdays from 8-12 between Main Street
and Jackson street, sells delicious locally
grown and produced food, from bread to
produce to pastries. The Bradford Store is
located about five miles from campus, off of
Davidson-Concord, and the Home Econo-
mist is on Griffith Street in Davidson.

The Farm Tour will take place from 2:00-
6:00 p.m. on September 19.
