THE DAVIDSONIAN

ANNA STOCKMORE
Staff Writer

Saturday, Nov. 14 was a perfect day for
the NCAA Southeast Regional Cross-Coun-
try meet at the E.P. Tom Sawyer Park in Lou-
isville, Kentucky. The ground, untouched by
last week’s torrential downpours, made for a
fast course of finely mowed grass, small roll-
ing hills, and several straight-aways. A small
band serenaded the runners at the starting
line and continued playing after the sound of
the gun, as all 35 teams of seven runners each
charged across the field toward the fencing.
It was a great weekend for both the men and
women, who placed 12th and 17th, respec-
tively, in the Southeast Region.

In the men’s 10K race, Lance Harden
710, in his last ever college cross-country
race, ran first for Davidson and placed 34th
overall. Harden was followed by teammates,
Tom Divinnie ’10, 58th, also racing for the fi-
nal time, Ryan Hopkins ’12, 70th, Demetrios
Pagonis 713, 90th, and Charlie Schmitt, ’11,
108th, to close out the five scorers, followed
closely by finishers Thad Sieracki ’10 and
Peter Bruton 10.

“Tt was an outstanding effort by our team
today. Lance ran an outstanding race, so it
was great seeing he and Tom finish strong,”
Coach Gary Andrews said.

The Wildcats finished the regional meet
12th out of 35 teams. Davidson entered the
meet ranked at 14th but was able to beat both
Kentucky and High Point to secure their 12th
place finish, putting them only two points
behind SoCon Champion Appalachian State.

SPORTS

Wildcat Pulse

Harden ’09 leads strong showing NCAA Regionals fjmmz

William and Mary was the overall champion
on the men’s side for the second year in a
row, followed by North Carolina State and
Virginia. Overall, the men ended a fantastic
season marked by their best ever 2nd place
finish at the SoCon Championships and a
fantastic follow-up at Regionals.

The women’s team experienced a dramat-
ic improvement from their Sth place finish at
SoCon Championships two weeks ago. They
proved their place in the conference, as well
as, regaining their status in the region with
an overall 17th place finish. Natalie Atabek
*12 led the Wildcat pack with an overall 67th
place finish in the 6k race.

“Natalie ran really well for us once again.
But I am extremely proud of how our entire
team ran today! We finished 17th in a strong
field and turned in the best performance in
the Southern Conference today,” Coach Jen
Straub said.

It was a team effort that led the Wildcats
to their strong regional finish, with Lauren
Childs *11 (84th), Danielle Ruggieri °11
(86th), Heather Conarroe ’11 and Sarah Cline
11, closing out the five scorers, followed by
Anna Stockamore 12.

“It was great for us to finish our season
on such a strong note! We knew what we
were capable of doing and today we put it all
together.”

Duke swept the meet on the women’s side
with five runners in the top 30, followed by
Virginia and NC State. Overall, the Regional
meet was a success for men and women’s

cross-country teams and a great way to finish
off incredible seasons on both sides.

a

Christine Perezinski ’12 (left) recorded
10 digs while Jorden Benedict ’11
(right) added a career-best 16 kills in
the ’Cats’ victory over Chattanooga.

Benedict ’11 leads
Wildcats to season-end-

ing victory over Mocs

____ ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

The Mocs of the University of Tennes-
see at Chattanooga traveled to Davidson for
a conference match on Saturday afternoon.
The ’Cats upset the rival team, winning 3-1
(25-23, 25-18, 22-25, 25-23).

Jorden Benedict ’11 and Sarabeth Peele
*11 each had season high tallies of 16 kills
apiece. Madison Benedict 712 also was a
tough offensive player with 10 kills for the
*Cats. Anna Bradbury *11 and classmate
Hayley Lawson ’11 had 33 and 12 assists,
respectively. Christine Perezinski ’12 and
Molly Crenshaw 713 played tough defense,
with a combination of 30 digs.

The Wildeats out-shot. Butler, hitting

imn's careerlong track record of achieving
J saccessfil results for his clients has earned.

him recognition throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 yoars and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina,

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Sion Fuller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State (or this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated bis legal practice to helping people
who have beon injured by the negligent oy erisaieal
conduct of others.

Jinn and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson United Methodist Charli. A
member of the Lioos Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and
was receatly appointed to the Town Planning Board.

APPEALS « BANKRUPTCY » BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLANNING

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2009

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

grdittosy
LAW FIRM

Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home
209 Delberg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 » (704) 892-1699 + www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

11

Men’s Basketball vs. Rhode Island
November 28, 2 p.m.
Belk Arena

The Rams, picked to finish 8th in
the Atlantic-10 preseason poll,
will be the first Division | op-
ponent to visit Belk Arena this
season as the Wildcats continue
non-conference play. David-
son hosts Fredonia State in the
team’s home opener on Novem-
ber 25.

Outside the Den

Miami (4-5) at Carolina (4-5)
Charlotte, N.C.
Thursday 8:20 p.m.

Coming off a huge win over
Atlanta, the Panthers welcome
the Dolphins to Bank of America
Stadium for a pivotal Thursday
night contest. The winner of
the game will improve to .soo
and remain in the thick of their
respective conference’s playoff
race, while the loser falls two
games under .500.

led the Wildcats with four turnovers apiece,
Butler scored 18 points off of Wildcat tum

rasser D. “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30
P years representing clients who have suffered
substantial injuries due to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else, Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
a8 well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts ip North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities 4s an attomey,
Sandy is dedicated to his family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Ante and Prosser, Sandy served many years as a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF & AM. and in has
coached youth foothall, baskethall and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelins and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION « PERSONAL INJURY
REAL ESTATE * WILLS & TRUSTS
