12

z yidson bask e

ae

sea year of, watching that silky

x

e nets Of Belk Arena, but
career, Beyond t the implications { for baskethal ‘fan
ion has also prompted a healthy debate :

fthe : student-athlete at Davidsoné y

vill challenge: that notion, Without graduating, (
neligible: ‘for, the Davidson ‘hall of fame | or ‘havin,

mner in which he de ;
fort the modem student thle, While at Das sons
always Tepresented the College wi ity: Dés

th that he will likel ue drafted in the middle of th

eee a one athe ecto ‘choose: Se:
way fro David Soni pe

Editors-in-Chief
Katherine Miller & Brian Moran
Managing Editor
Kate Kelly
News Editors
Kelsey Litley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
A “ \, Anjan Mukherjee & Bryan Norris.
~« Arts & Living Editors
Zoe Balaconis & Jennifer Gambrell.
Yow! Editors
Alex Greening
* Sports Editors _
ike Frongello & Logan Lewis
* “Head Copy Editors ¢
<<” Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Cirenlation Managers ~~
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright ~,
Online Editor’
Greg Newman
Arontent Manager
2. Kelly Beggs”
Assistant Copy Editors
Alex Kowaleski & Joel Fineman
Photography Staff
Bill King, Aaron Robinson & Laney Schenk

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year”

by the students of Davidson College.

Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or
$30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for
advertising inquiries.

TIVES

Tue DavIDpSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Apri 29, 2009

Health Care for all children now

Davip Poms
Guest Columnist

In February, Congress passed and President Obama

- signed a bill expanding the State Child Health Insurance

Program (SCHIP) to cover 4 million more children, a bill
that Congress passed twice two years ago but vetoed each
time by then-President Bush. This is impressive progress, but
it is not the comprehensive health reform that we need, nor
does it fulfill the promise that President Obama made on the
campaign trail of health coverage for every child in America.
Considering that the bill was intended to pass under President
Bush, more reform is definitely possible.

Uninsured children cost the local
community $2,100 more than a child
with Medicaid or SCHIP.

Now is the time for real reform, not incrementation. 6
million children are still left without health coverage under
the current system, and millions more are under-insured
with coverage that falls short of children’s health needs. The
under-insurance issue is a real problem and works to mask
the real face of health care in America. Consider the story
of Deamonte Driver, a 12 year old from Maryland who died
February 25, 2007 of a toothache. He couldn’t find a dentist
who would accept Medicaid and his mother couldn’t afford
an $80 tooth extraction. But his condition soon took a turn
for the worse when he was rushed to surgery, where it was
discovered that the bacteria from his abscessed tooth had
infected his brain. Heroic efforts were made to save him,
including two operations and eight weeks of additional care
and therapy, totaling about $250,000. Unfortunately, it was
all too late.

The outrage is that Deamonte’ s life could have been saved
by a routine dental visit and an inexpensive extraction, if only
Medicaid’s reimbursement rates to providers weren’t so low,
causing Medicaid providers to be extremely scarce.

Deamonte’s story illustrates not only the immoral
and barbaric nature of the system even for those who are
insured, but the sheer stupidity of it, economically speaking.
In Deamonte’s case, the numbers are almost too much to
believe — would you rather pay $80 to save a boy’s life or pay
$250,000 in hospital costs and still lose him? This is a story
that turns into a pattern when the system is examined.

Prevention costs far less then illness, and primary care
doctor vists cost less then emergency rooms. According to
the Children’s Defense Fund, every $1 spent on vaccinations
saves $16 in later costs to the community. Uninsured children
cost the local community $2,100 more than a child with
Medicaid or SCHIP. At least 40 states are facing budget

shortfalls this year, many are considering cutting programs
that will affect low-income children’s or families’ eligibility
for health insurance. This is not only tragic but more costly
for us in the long run. Covering all children will have positive
stimulative effects on the economy by not wasting resources
in this manner.

Covering all children will also have positive effects
in many other areas. It has long been known that healthy
children do better in school. Those children without health
coverage are also often those most in need of mental health
services, as children often come to school from dysfunctional
or. damaging environments not conducive to learning. A
congressional study a few years ago found that there were
currently 15,000 children in the juvenile justice system due
solely to the lack of community mental health services.
Making those services available will reduce strain on the
justice system while increasing student achievement.

Covering all children will also greatly reduce the burden
on parents—especially homeowners. The number one cause
of bankruptcy in the country is a medical emergency, and
almost half of people with homes in foreclosure named
medical problems as a cause. And it is in line with free market
principles. When parents don’t have to consider whether they
should take or stay in a job due solely to health benefits for
their children (or themselves), they have more freedom as
economic actors.

Those children without health
coverage are also often those most in
need of mental health services.

Full disclosure: I have founded a group on campus this
semester called Students Advocating for Youth (SAY), which
is affiliated with the Children’s Defense Fund. CDF is the
foremost proponent of policies and programs that provide
children with the resources they need to succeed. CDF and
SAY believe that all children need affordable, comprehensive,
and seamless health coverage.

We also believe that in the upcoming health care reform
bill, children may be left out. As I noted at the beginning,
many in Washington believe the SCHIP expansion was
enough, but it is not. That is why we are collecting letters to
send to President Obama to tell him that ALL children need
health coverage. We will be collecting letters in the Union
until reading day. If inspired, I hope that you will contribute
a handwritten letter. Ensuring health coverage for all children
is a key moral test of the nation — one that I am confident we
can pass.

David Poms ’10 is a sociology major from Bethesda, Ma.
Contact him at dapoms@davidson.edu.

Connections: blues and hip hop

Evan Eskew
Guest Columnist

Maybe it was seeing Muddy Waters next to Nas
in my iTunes library that made me realize it was time for
an evaluation. These artists represent my two favorite, but
seemingly disparate, musical genres—blues and hip hop. I
wondered what common ground, if any, there was between
blues and hip hop music. .

After all, it’s difficult to hear very much similarity in the
sounds of, say, Mississippi John Hurt and T.I. After thinking
on the issue for a while, however, I began to see that there
are indeed some broad commonalities between these two
musical worlds.

First, and perhaps most obviously, both of these
genres are rooted in the social experience of blacks in America.
Although they have since been adopted by people of varied
races, ethnicities and nationalities, both matured as art forms
during eras of American history that were characterized by
significant struggles for blacks in particular.

The blues were born in the post-slavery environment of
the South ruled by Jim Crow laws and hip hop took off in
response to the realities of inner city life in the 1980’s which
were greatly affected by the crack cocaine epidemic and its
associated rise in crime. Artists in both genres use music as
an outlet to respond to their respective social conditions.

Scholar Cornel West has described the blues as an
“autobiographical chronicle of a personal catastrophe
expressed lyrically,” and with that framework it is unsurprising

that some of the best blues songs have a strongly personal
statement. For example, it seems to me that Eric Clapton’s
version of “Have You Ever Loved a Woman” with the band
Derek and the Dominoes wouldn’t have been nearly as an
affecting song had Clapton not recorded it while he was
actually falling in love with his best friend’s wife, as the song’s
lyrics describe (that friend happened to be George Harrison
and the relationship also inspired the song “Layla”).

In the realm of hip hop we also find raw statements of
personal experience: Jay-Z’s memories of a childhood
without a father (“Now all the teachers couldn’t reach me
/ and my momma couldn’t beat me / hard enough. to match
the pain of my pop not seeing me”), Tupac’s brutally honest
account of his most personal thoughts (“So much pressure in
this life of mine, I cry at times / I once contemplated suicide
and would’ve tried / But when I held that nine all I could
see was my momma’s eyes”), and Biggie’s portrait of the
only options available to a young black male from the ghetto
(“Either you’re slinging crack rock / Or you got a wicked
jump shot”).

Furthermore, I see both traditions as being strongly
referential to past works in the genre. In the blues, cover
songs are not the territory of amateur musicians, but rather
provide an artist the opportunity to put their original stamp on
a classic tune. I go back to the example of Clapton’s “Have
You Ever Loved a Woman” which was actually a cover of a
song by one of his idols, Freddie King. I find it remarkable

See Blues, page 13
