6 THe DAvIDSONIAN

Staff Writer

With the third week of classes underway
and the excitement of retuming to campus

disappearing i in the familiar cloud of stress,

a break: for entertainment entices thé senses
If music is your preferred method of escape;

look no further than this week’s Live Thursday:

performance featuring Alexis Valauri-Orton
#12: She will be joined for the first time by
a band comprised of Mark Crowley ’11 on
drums, Elizabeth Crowder? 12 oncello, Galen
Bradley 10 on bass, Michael ee on
guitar and Ryan Cockman.’10 on violin.” de

rites her own music: and lyrics and even

postponed Davidson fora year to develop <
her songwriting. She enrolled in a musical.
technology and production class this semester”

and plans to record some songs and hopefully:
an EP.

Arts & LIVING
Gamers rock at Union

oothing .and_ ethereal
oice won her many Davidson fans last year,
and. she has since developed her: style into
a more’ acoustic: sound, Valauri-Orton feels

‘pleased with her switch from solo artist to
full band-This change promises to delight.

“Tt i is. a] chance to show everyone what
y music¢-really: sounds’ like: in. my. “mind
9] it’s a better reflection of me than m old
stuff?” she said, : =
The. oppurtunity to view unseen facets

of students you always. see walking through
Chambers, munching. at ‘Commons or typin;

- more’ about. the people. you ‘attend school
‘ with, or jut want to hear some great music,

The Cook’s Corner

By ELLEN VISER
Staff Writer

North Carolina Pulled Pork Sandwiches

Barbequed, pulled pork is a southern
culinary staple, and one of my very favorite
treats. This version uses a slow cooker, so
it’s much easier to prepare than traditional
pulled pork from the grill, and the slow
cooking will tenderize tough cuts of meat,
so even inexpensive cuts will be delicious.
Enjoy!

3-4 pounds Pork Shoulder (or any cut of
pork that looks good)
1 onion, cut into wedges

%4 cup hot water
1 bottle of your favorite BBQ Sauce
6 Sandwich buns

Place wedges of onion on bottom of slow
cooker and, after trimming fat, place pork
on top of onions. Add water. Cook on high
setting for 4 hours.

Remove meat from cooker, and shred
using 2 forks. Remove onion wedges and
discard. Return meat to the slow cooker. Add
half the bottle of BBQ sauce, and cook on
low setting for 30 more minutes.

Serve on warm, soft buns and spoon extra
sauce on top of meat.

For an authentic southern sandwich, add
a scoop of crunchy, vinegar-based coleslaw.

Serves 6.

Pulled pork sandwiches are a southern institution! Cook them in your apartment or

dorm kitchen for a great Junch or dinner.

Wed. 9/9 Thur. 9/10 Sun. 9/13 Tue. 9/15
: This looks like a
. Homecoming 2009 i
“Turmoil in Iran: Brad Gooch Reading | Homecoming 2009 Homecoming 2009 3 Seinen 8 great day to your
What's Next?” with Tyler-Tallman Hall Lazy Sunday at the Lilly Femail cz ae homework. All day.
Robin Wright 7:30-9:00 p.m. “Applying Green Football Game v. Lake 6:30. 8:00 ton
Duke Family Chemistry in the Lenior-Rhyne Lake Campus me Pm
Performance Hall, Live Thursday: Pharmaceutical 1p.m. 1-4:00 p.m
8 p.m. Alexis V.O. Industry.” P leasky by Doug
900 Room Martin B25 Film Screenings: Premedical 900 R im
Outpost Trivia Night 11 p.m. 2:30 p.m. Disney Night Director's Meeting | 8 p ie
11 p.m. ae Room Lilly Family Gal.
pancake Breakfast & p-m. 6:30-8:00 pm The Davidson Show
Uxion xtrtam “Get Lost” by Doug 900 Room
10 p.m. 10 p.m.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

Board tournament

By_ Katie VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

Once upon a time, the boys of 4th Rich,
led by their patriarchal hall counselor Stephen
Pierce °10 passed their Friday nights in the
brotherly, sub-free pursuit of Rock Band
excellence. They were “just having fun.”

Those days are over, thanks largely to
Melissa Guzman ’11, who arranged a DDR
and Rock Band tournament last Saturday
night in the 900 Room. Besides procuring
the precious gaming equipment, she rustled
up lucrative prizes that included $50 gift
certificates to Best Buy.

Competition crackled in the 900 Room
as the former 4th Rich hall mates gathered
for an epic Rock Band face off.

The first band, who called themselves
Stephen Miracle Ryan Taylor (SMRT),
opened the night with their smashing single
“Float On” as team consisting of Alex Diel,
Aaron Diel and Benjamin Heimfeld 712
(AAB) scrambled for a lead singer.

Much to the young men’s surprise, three
new champs strutted to the scene, calling
themselves Blaze.

One member of the group, Max, stunned
the crowd by throwing back a bottle of root
beer with manly vigor while his sidekicks,
Preston and Ben, warmed up with a DDR
match.

Meanwhile, the DDR champ Jimmy
Rountree °11 reveled in uncontested
dominance. His graceful technique, refined
by four years of practice, has attracted fans
by the dozens in arcades across Mecklenburg
County. Crowds cannot help but gape with
awe as he taps out 300 string combos on the
expert level, feet flying.

Though a few foolhardy hopefuls tried
their luck against him over the course of
the evening, the ensuing slaughter was so
pronounced that their names did not even
make it into the bracket. Nor did Rountree
falter when the noise of Rock Band drowned
out DDR’s humble hum.

go anrosscaconnsept tac

Pena ,

1a ara ARR

late? With so many ways to enjoy America’s
favorite fruit, we can only hope: that it will «
bes saved,

Lansky

: will scientists :
ble to. save the banana before it is too ©

“I don’t like Guitar Hero,” said Rountree.
“Everyone played DDR before, but they
don’t want to get sweaty. And they’re afraid
of looking like idiots. I don’t mind looking
like an idiot.”

Guzman noted that Rock Band can be
just as intense. Band members often “rock
out too hard,” she said. “Drumsticks break.
Feet get sore hitting the pedal.”

Clearly, both games are fraught with
challenge and danger. But they forge heroes.
Late into the night, AAB recruited Jane
McGraw, a member of the Davidson Chorale
Group, to sing for them.

Wilson Mericle *12, the charming lead
singer of SMRT, looked on with complacency,
as his mind drifted away with dreams of a
future record deal.

As the minutes flew by, others broke onto
the scene. Jimmy the Juggler, a visitor from
Atlanta, GA, shadowed Rountree for some
time and at last challenged him to a duel.
Here, Rountree pulled yet another rabbit
from his hat by playing the game with only
his hands. Jimmy the Juggler was roasted in
seconds.

Needless to say, Rountree victoriously
left the stage, his hard-earned gift-card
nestled proudly in his pocket.

The battle of the bands raged on in a
thrilling three-round tournament. While
Blaze left after the second round, they
displayed admirable spirit. When Round 3
finally drew to a close, all the spectators held
their breath as Pierce pulled out a calculator.
Audience members balked and urged him to
compute the final scores mentally.

Pierce scoffed. “We’re Davidson
students,” he said. “We’re smarter than
that!”

In the end, SMRT triumphed with
1,621,101 point, and beat the second place
team by 946,968 points. Despite the
crushing defeat, good will and camaraderie
triumphed at the epic DDR and Guitar Hero
tournament.

és In banana bread
* Over your favorite éereal -,

