4 Tue DavipsoNniIAN

a ..

- os -—

’Cats on Main gran
opening a success

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

If you’ve walked on
Main Street this semester,
you will have noticed that
some new windows are
decorated by Davidson gear
and paraphernalia. It’s the
new store “Cats on Main,”
an extenstion of the campus
bookstore that has crossed
the street as a gesture of the
relationship between the
college and the town.

Last Saturday, many
Davidson students, _ staff
and townspeople attended
the grand opening of this
store. It was an event full of
prizes, special speakers and
a great deal of enthusiasm.

The invitation was set
for 10 a.m., when President
Ross, Mayor John Wood
and landlord Tom Clark all
gave small speeches that
shared some very thoughtful comments and
expressed their excitement about this new
partnership. This excitement was clearly
shared by the store employees, townspeople
and college faculty that were present. When
constructing this new store, planners tried
to preserve the character of the building and
its history by reusing some of the wooden
shelves and the signs from the Drug store.

The Davidson cheerleaders were present
all day supporting the event and welcom-
ing visitors. Chidsey Leadership groups also
stopped by to earn clues for a scavenger hunt
by singing the Davidson fight song.

Many students and townspeople stopped
by throughout the day. Some were curious as
to what was going on, but many expressed
their support for the college’s new store and
the idea that Davidson College should con-
nect and reach out to the town as much as
possible.

“Davidson is an amazing town, and this
new store on Main Street is a symbol of the
union between the town and the college” said

The new Davidson school spirit store,
opened Saturday morning, with President Tom Ross cut-
ting the ribbon.

CL se Z
Cats on Main,

Kiana Zakar ’12, one of the students who at-
tended the grand opening of ’Cats on Main.

“The event was very exciting for the staff
to plan and there were some wonderful mo-
ments in the day. The ‘liquid sunshine’ didn’t
dim the smiles of staff, distinguished guests
or cool customers,” said Gwen Gardner, the
Bookstore manager. “Tom Ross kindly shared
some thoughtful comments to the group, as
did town Mayor, John Wood, and landlord,
Tom Clark, before cutting the ribbon and of-
ficially opening the store. All are such kind
gentlemen and huge supporters of the store.”

The event was a complete success,
thanks to the hard work of the employees,
and because it brought the entire community
together.

Store manager Jill Lazarus said, “Tt is
such an honor to be part of Davidson Col-
lege. I look forward to growing this wonder-
ful exciting new venture. We have a terrific
staff, they come with experience, knowledge
and enthusiasm. We strive for great customer
service, fun atmosphere and helpful staff.”

CORRECTIONS

L.E.A.D.

A Sep. 23 article, “Students support Ada Jenkins program
for Latinas,” incorrectly stated that Marianne Daniels ’12 is

the president of L.E.A.D. Daniels is actually co-president
with Katherine Fahy °12.

The Davidsonian pledges to rectify any
errors in reporting through printed corrections.
Please contact us at
davidsonian @davidson.edu if you
identify any such errors.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2009

relating to.business, organizational and per
‘sonal ethics; public policy and the common
“good; “bioethics; and. personal experience,”
The symposium. will be: academic in nature,”
s students need to read. all the “assigned,
background ‘documents. and. cases. ” studies:
beforehand.
‘Interested ‘students
syme for more information, about applying,
"for the event. The, selection of four. seniors
> will be based on “why they are. interested,

what they can bring tc to >the symposium Gein

-

Vicia ch Churches of Hilton Head and is 4
2nd year,
Syi o

BLOTIER

! PPS oOliuar

09/24/09 02:24

Officer received a call advising Davidson Fire Department had been dispatched to
Ryburn in reference to a fire alarm activation. The fire alarm was activated when
Davidson student overcooked the hotdogs he was frying in apartment. Davidson Fire
Department permitted residents to reenter the dorm after clearing the smoke and reset-
ting the alarm.

09/25/09 09:33

Officer responded to the Davidson Laundry in reference to damage to property. Re-
porting officer met with Davidson College employee who stated that her vehicle had
minor scratches and was not sure what happened. She stated that she wanted to notify
campus police because she had seen a new scratch on her vehicle each day for the past
week. The officer observed minor scratches to the left and rear passenger doors, driver
side door and the left side of the trunk.

09/25/09 13:05

Officer responded to Sloan Music Center in reference to a suspicious female. Report-
ing officer received a call on the officer duty cell phone from a Davidson College em-
ployee who advised that he observed her in the music library. The officer met with the
female and advised her that she needed to leave the campus immediately. The officer
escorted and trespassed her off of the campus.

09/25/09 23:00

Officer was contacted in reference to a suspicious person near Martin Ct. F. The caller
advised of a black male approximately 35 years old about 5 foot 10 inches tall wear-
ing a dark blue rain jacket that was trying to party with students. Reporting officer
received a second call advising that the individual was now outside Ryburn. Reporting
officer searched the area by foot and vehicle but were unable to locate anyone match-
ing the above description. Reporting officer later received a call advising the subject
left on a bicycle and was last seen traveling north on Ridge Rd. towards N. Main St.

09/27/09 02:00

Officer, while conducting patrol at the Outpost, observed a subject come in with a

red cup. The officer requested that the subject take the drink outside because it is not
allowed in the Outpost. The subject then proceeded to try and finish the drink. The of-
ficer again told the subject to take it outside. He then threw the cup away and tried to
walk past the officer. The officer stepped in front of the subject and advised him that
he had to leave.

The officer went outside and observed the subject standing on the porch. He stated
that he was waiting on his friends. The officer asked if he was a student and he stated
yes. When the officer asked for his ID, he stated that he did not have to give it and
then walked away. The officer walked down to the curb and the subject then went
back inside the Outpost. The officer went in to the Outpost and brought the subject
back out. It was at this time he gave the officer his ID and stated that he was not a
student. The officer advised the subject that he was trespassed and he needed to leave
campus.

09/27/09 01:00

Officer received a call in reference to several students on the roof of Vail Commons.
Officer responded to the area and observed several students on the roof. Reporting of-
ficer climbed onto the rooftop and escorted the students from the roof.

09/27/09 13:19

Officer received a call from a Davidson College student, advising that his ‘girlfriend’ s
vehicle was broken into sometime during the night.. The student stated that while his
girlfriend was visiting, she was parked in the greenhouse parking lot when an un-
known subject smashed in her windows and tampered with the ignition in an attempt
to steal the vehicle. The student stated that he wanted to contact campus police in
hopes of additional patrol in the area.
