THE DAVIDSONIAN

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

Videogames, whether you like them or not, are a big
deal. If you don’t play them, then there is a pretty dam good
chance that someone you know plays and loves videogames.
According to the Entertainment Software Association
(ESA), 68 percent of American families play some kind
of videogames, and 42 percent of American homes own a
home videogame console. Every year, some kind of industry
analyst proclaims that the videogame market is now a bigger
part of the entertainment sector than movies. While this has
yet to actually be the case, there are more videogames solid
in a year than DVDs and Blu-Ray discs, which is nothing to
scoff at. While the total revenue of the videogame industry
may be behind total box office grosses and home video sales,
film studios have actually started to take into account the
weeks in which hit videogames are released so as to avoid
competing with their incredible consumer appeal and value
(indeed, why pay ten bucks for a two hour movie when
you can pay sixty for the endless replayability of Halo 37).
With the explosive popularity and innate simplicity of the
Nintendo Wii, videogames are reaching broader age groups
than ever before.

With more students and teachers
around the country recognizing the
increasing academic value and rele-
vance of videogames, it’s encouraging
to see that Davidson students have an
opportunity to be a part of this conver-
sation.

However, despite the astoundingly rapid growth of the
industry, videogames are still a tough sell for academics. And,
to be fair, colleges and universities have reason to worry. It is
temptingly easy to simply see my support for the serious study
of videogames as a legitimization of my hobby, and some
might even go so far as to call it an addiction (the American
Psychological Association considered classifying “video
game addiction” as a mental disorder in 2007). I completely
understand this perception of videogames, considering that
most of them are created solely for the purpose of profit
through entertainment.

Violence is also an issue, as it is strangely inescapable
in many popular and influential videogames (let’s not kid
ourselves, even Mario and Pac-Man kill and are killed).
Since the Columbine shooting, videogames have become a
popular whipping boy for social commentators, politicians
and the mass media. While it seems logical to blame poor
parenting or general craziness on tragedies like Columbine
or the Virginia Tech shooting, the fact that these shooters
played violent videogames is always given significant
airtime on news programs. Considering these popularly held
stigmas against videogames in general, it is unsurprising that
institutions of higher education would be wary of supporting
a field of study for interactive entertainment.

Ultimately, though, videogames deserve some serious
academic consideration. As a medium, videogames are quite
distinct from other forms of expression like film, music or
literature in that they are unavoidably interactive; there is no
defined, distinct separation from viewer and subject. There
are countless questions and considerations that arise from this
crucial and unique quality (and scholars like Bob Rehak and
Janet Murray try to answer these questions), but first among
them is the realization videogames provide a totally different
means to approach societal constructs and their elements
like morality, politics, culture, and religion. Videogames are
a fascinating lens through which we can examine not only
the artificial world constructed for our entertainment, but our
own real world as well. By engaging with videogames and
then examining the nature and results of that engagement,
it becomes abundantly clear that such software provides for
an examination of ourselves, our history and our society in a
way that other media cannot.

While it is most definitely true that there are a lot of
“kitschy” videogames out there, to disregard a mode of
communication entirely based on an incomplete examination
of the medium is downright irresponsible and close-minded.
There are a lot of best-selling and commercially successful
videogames that stand their own when examined under
an academic light. Consider the videogame “Sid Meier’s
Civilization IV,” a game that can be immediately identified
as hugely complex. For those of you out there who are
unfamiliar with Sid Meier or the title itself, certainly you

PERSPECTIVES

recognize the word civilization and the intricate, incredible
and almost indefinable nature of the term. Amazingly enough,
this game actually tries to not only define civilization, but
accurately and completely simulate the rise and fall of
nations and cultures. In the course of a single playthrough,
the player assumes the role of city planner, military general,
industrialist, scientist, diplomat, treasurer, political leader,
religious leader, educator, entertainer, and economist for the
people of his or her civilization. More staggering still is the
thought that the game functions as an illustration for how all
of these diverse elements of society interact not only with
each other, but with the idea of civilization as a whole. Then,
to top everything off, the game has the guts to tell us what
constitutes a successful civilization by laying out a myriad
list of victory conditions. There is not a painting, play, song
or film out there that can do all of these things at once while
simultaneously making the viewer or listener a fundamental
and active agent in determining the end result and message.
Also, the game is really gloriously fun (and sold 3 million
copies as of March, 2008), so there is that to consider as
well.

There are countless videogames out there that deserve
serious study, and slowly but surely academia is catching on.
Last month, the ESA pinned the number of higher education
institutions offering degrees in videogames at 254, with a 27
percent rise in programs since 2008. Keep in mind that most
of these establishments are not your local DeVry University
or ITT Tech campus, but highly-respected schools like the
University of Pennsylvania, New York University and the
University of California-Irving.

As for the study of videogames at Davidson, I’ve had
the good fortune of involving myself in the Film and Media
Studies Concentration here on campus. Excellent course
offerings and professors have allowed me to study new and
old media on their own, as well as where these mediums
have intersected. Returning this semester is a course titled
Interactive Digital Narratives, a class piloted by Professor
Neil Lerner in 2006. The course involves itself in directly
examining the uniqueness and significance of the videogame
game medium, and I would implore any student interested in
this developing field to take the course.

Outside of academics, various non-disciplinary
departments on campus like ITS, ResNet and the Connolly
Media Lab staff have been helpful in providing for a
favorable environment for the future expansion of videogame
study. With more students and teachers around the country
recognizing the increasing academic value and relevance of
videogames, it’s encouraging to see that Davidson students
have an opportunity to be a part of this conversation.

As a medium, videogames are quite
distinct from other forms of expression
like film, music or literature in that
they are unavoidably interactive; there
is no defined, distinct separation from
viewer and subject.

Having studied film theory a bit here at Davidson, friends
and family often come to me and ask me why I think such-
and-such a movie is particularly interesting, or why one film
is more important on some level than another film. With
my (extremely) limited knowledge, I attempt to answer and
address these questions put to me as best I can. Films seem to
be at a particular point in society where they are understood
by many people to be more than simple entertainment, and
that this deeper, more significant meaning is not immediately
available to those that haven’t put a significant amount of time
into studying the medium as an art form. It is my belief and
hope that videogames will get to that same point someday,
and someday soon. Perhaps it takes some kind of incredible
videogame equivalent of “Citizen Kane,” or a brilliant game
designer on par with Shakespeare. However, I see a much
different catalyst as necessary for this shift. If videogames
are to be taken as an inspired and legitimate art form, those
that understand the importance of videogames as a medium
will have to teach others why. This is happening now at major
colleges and universities around the country, and Davidson,
aS an institution, should be aware and responsive to this
changing dynamic. As for the students, this is a burgeoning
field of study with fresh ideas and ample room to flex some
cerebral muscle. It’d be a mistake to miss out on a golden
opportunity to examine what may be the most ground-
breaking and influential texts of the twenty-first century.

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from
Charlotte, NC. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

The rise of the videogame art form

0 > get off of the people’s backs has _
(Scott MarttHew made me start’ stain about the:

been a tru € democracy, herefor vin a country that t prides

jeself’o

Daina
‘stabilizing , the:

“our laws didn’t:foresee any of these- modern institutions. :
e Point 3 is that the government, was there-to back uD

ow, step outside of the financial crisis. and you will”
that the government has arms in all parts of our lives,

