THE DAVIDSONIAN

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 2009 7

MEET THE CANDIDATES

=.

Union Board
President

ALLISON RUHE

Hello! My name is Allison Ruhe and I am running for
Union Board President. Maybe you have seen me handing
out Chick-fil-A at After Midnights, at the Campus Christmas
Party, hanging out at the lake campus during Orientation, or
in the Union (it’s practically my second home).

This year, as Vice President, I have worked with the board
to plan campus-wide events every Monday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of every week. - Last year,
I was the Union Board Lake Campus Committee Chair and
Member-At-Large.

The year before that, I was an active member of the Recess
committee, As you can probably tell, Union Board has been
a major part of my life at Davidson since I got here, and I
couldn’t imagine not continuing my involvement next year.
I believe that my previous experience, creativity, motivation,
and organization make me a good candidate for the position
of President.

As President, I promise to continue to build upon the
progress we have made this year, and bring great events to

United

Community
Action President

ELIZABETH LACKS

Hi! As a junior just returning from abroad, I am excited
about returning to Davidson and looking forward to once
again becoming involved with the strong service community
here. I have been tutoring at a shelter in Charlotte, co-
coordinating the group of student tutors, and representing this
organization in UCA since my freslman year. I would love
to continue this involvement by serving as the president of
United Community Action. I have experience collaborating
with a variety of service organizations through Rusk Eating-
House and PS-Student Run Restaurant, and I have seen how
much can be accomplished when organizations compile their
forces and abilities.

As an umbrella service organization, UCA has the ability
to provide resources and connections to both Davidson
students and their community partners. UCA’s mission and
function on campus have recently undergone significant
changes, and I participated in this process of reevaluation and
restructuring. Having helped the organization evolve over the
last several years, J have an understanding of where UCA
stands and what it strives to become. I hope to have a chance
to help students and our community partners discover and
take advantage of this rich resource and network.

__ QUENTIN GRAHAM

This is Quentin Graham, the current Ambassador for the
Union Board. This year I have decided to run for the position
of Vice President. As Ambassador I was asked to not only send
out the Social Calendar, but also to act as a liaison between
the Union Board, and the other student groups on campus.
An example of this work would be the Election Night Party.
I was a voice that helped to piece together the Union Board
and the Political Connection, ultimately providing a great
event that was heavily attended.

AS a current member of the board, I have worked hard
on many events, even taking on some tasks that were not
required. I will bring a familiarity with the way things are
run and the way things should work. I enjoy working with
others and being apart of the process that provides events for

| all students to enjoy.

Vote for me because I’m knowledgeable and willing to
work as hard as necessary to help provide the student body
with fun and exciting events!

Union Board Vice President

TAN MAGNUM

T am Jan Mangum and IJ am running for Vice-president of
the Union Board. I have been affiliated with the Union Board
for two years now and am the current Recess Committee
Chair as well as a Member-at-Large. I feel as though the
Union Board is an amazing organization at Davidson College.
We provide a large array of events that put the joy in a lot
of people’s weekends whether it’s with After Midnight, our
concerts, or one of our other amazing events. Iam acommitted
member who wants to ensure the Union Board continues to
provide the students with entertainment that’s well worth that
student activity fee. Sometimes the court just doesn’t put
that razzle dazzle in your weekend that you need to get away
from the stress of Davidson academics. As vice president I
will make it my duty to make the Union Board grander than
ever with new events that will make Union Board the talk of
Davidson College. No student will ever have to sit through an
uneventful weekend again. So vote Ian Mangum for Union
Board Vice-president.

Activities Tax Council Chair

he:

JEssICA._GIVENS

My name is Jessica Givens, I am a junior, and I have
recently returned from studying abroad in France. Last year I
served on the Activities Tax Council, helping the council make
the allocation process go efficiently and without confusion.
Every year you pay a student activity fee of approximately
$200 for ATC to allocate the money to chartered student
organizations.

Have you ever wondered how you could get the most out of
your tuition? Do you want a smoothly run and straightforward
ATC allocation process? If elected as ATC Vice-Chairperson,
I ensure that the ATC will provide assistance with budgets
and proposals, consider co-sponsorships, create a stronger
bridge with SGA, and support organizations’ innovative
spirits in order to provide a diverse array of student events
and activities (speakers, artists, films, etc). I am organized,
approachable, determined, and I always want to find a way to
improve campus life and the overall student experience.

Ensure that you get the most out of your activity fee
and allow your organization to flourish - VOTE JESSICA
GIVENS for ATC VICE-CHAIRPERSON.

temon _

ELIZABETH KREBS

The Activities Tax Council is an important committee
that allocates the money gathered from your student activities

fees and funds any organizations with an SGA charter. Last
year, as yearbook editor, I got to see for the first time how this
ATC process works.

It was efficient and effective, and I especially liked how
it was almost fully student run. These factors influenced me
to run for the position of vice-chair. I am a math major who
loves numbers and my TI-89 calculator, so I would bring
enthusiasm and math skills to the position.

I am also organized, and have experience leading
meetings due to my involvement with yearbook, RLO, and
Davidson Outdoors. I have strong communication skills, and
I would be sure to listen and respond to any organizations
that had questions or concerns. I think I would make a strong
candidate for the ATC chair, and I would love to serve in the
position! Thanks!

CHRISTIE MASON

During these economic times, Davidson College will have
to pursue careful and prudent financial strategies. In running
for the Activities Council Chair, I would enjoy helping student
organizations most efficiently use our activity fees to enrich
our campus. As students, we all have an interest and a role in
helping Davidson make the best use of its funds. Together,
we can encourage further inter-organization collaboration
and strategic planning.

As a junior economics major, I possess the skills that
will foster the careful distribution of our campus resources.
Furthermore, my roles in the Women’s Leadership
Conference and Engage for Change have equipped me with
the group facilitation and budget management abilities need
for working with all sections of campus. I hope you will join
me in this financial challenge and give me the opportunity to
aid student organizations.
