THE DavIDSONIAN

: : ‘ So milfs. EO ee :
Steve Rossiter ’10 and Elinor Landess ’10 pause for

a picture after being named Homecoming King and
Queen at Saturday’s football game against Lenoir-
Rhyne. Homecoming included speeches from President
Tom Ross and reunion activities. The Class of 2004
celebrated their 5th year Reunion, while the classes

of 1963, 1964 and 1965 celebrated their 45th Cluster
Reunion. Also in attendance was the class of 1954 for
their 55th Reunion, the class of 1949 for their 60th Re-
union, and the class of 1939 for their 70th Reunion.

THIS WEEK THEY LEARNEO THE IMPERFE

RNATIONAL.

sig

fe
pps

yy

News

Grant

Funds Davidson

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2009 3

a!

Community Players

ALLIE COKER t we
Staff Writer .f

The Davidson Com-
munity Players have re-
ceived an outstanding grant
of $10,000 from the North
Carolina Arts Council to
produce a musical called
“Violet” during their spring
season. The show, which is
slated for March 2010, is a
work by Brian Crawley and
Jeanine Tesori that portrays
life during the beginning of
the Civil Rights movement.
According to the group, the
grant will help pay “hono-
rariums for professional art-
ists and royalties to produce”
the show. a:

“Tt’s very exciting,” Cin-
dy Rice, Executive Director
of the Davidson Community
Players, said. When asked a
about the process of applying ~
for the grant, she responded,
“We just completed the on-
line [grant] application, sent in supporting
information, and gave data about our bud-
get and audience statistics.” In the press re-
lease detailing the production for the spring,
Rice stated, “State funds from the N.C. Arts
Council allow Mecklenburg County to pro-
vide quality arts programming for adults and
students that would otherwise be outside this
organization’s financial means, while also
sustaining our local economy. Last year Da-
vidson Community Players provided enter-
tainment for over 12,000 children and adults.
A highlight was our production of “West Side
Story’ in June 2009, an unprecedented suc-
cess with audiences totaling over 4,300.”

With such audience expansion, both the-
atre professionals and enthusiasts are realiz-
ing the importance of sustaining funding dur-
ing these tumultuous economic times. Mary
B. Regan, the Executive Director of the NC
Arts Council, expressed her gratitude and re-
lief relating to the continuing grants support
from the General Assembly.

tit

ROVEGTRAND MADE GNOGGHI--1i

FQUR-GHEESE SAUCE

me LSACS
bour Garterarerry teste Jor,

The Davidson Community Players p
Story” in June.

4 photo by Bilt Giduz a |
erformed “West Side

And is there truly an impact from the
perseverance of funding the arts? According
to the press release, “More than 13.6 million
people participated in N.C. Arts Council-
funded projects last year in schools, senior
centers, museums, concert halls and commu-
nity centers. Nearly 4.3 million of these were
children and youth. The N.C. Arts Council
awards grant money each year to provide
diverse arts experiences for citizens in all
100 counties of North Carolina. In fiscal year
2009-10, the Arts Council is expected to dis-
tribute $7.4 million in state and federal grant
funds to arts organizations, schools and other
nonprofit organizations that sponsor arts pro-
grams.”

The collaboration between the N.C. Arts
Council and Davidson Community Play-
ers isn’t the only one happening this year,
however. In February, PARC and the Town
of Davidson will be screening the film “Boy-
cott” and holding a Gospel Choir Concert
to celebrate Black History Month and these
events will provide the lead-up to “Violet.”

By combining all these efforts, it should
send a powerful message from 1964 to the
current times of 2009. “Violet” which is ap-
parently based on a play titled, “The Ugliest
Pilgrim” by Doris Betts, follows the story
of a young woman who is traveling by bus
to Oklahoma. She is trying to leave behind
not only her town in North Carolina but the
memories of being accidentally scarred by
her father as she makes her way towards a
TV evangelist she hopes can heal her. During
her journey, she meets a young black soldier
who teachers her all about life.

Sure to be a crowd-pleaser as well as a
profound glimpse at life from the pre-Civil
Rights era, “Violet” will be produced with
enthusiasm by the Davidson Community
Players, thanks to the grant from the N.C.
Arts Council this upcoming March 2010.

The Davidson Community Players were
founded in 1965, when they performed
“Time’s Harvest” as their first production.
The theatre has been growing and develop-
ing with the town of Davidson and its com-
munity for the past five decades. The group
stresses the need for community engagement
and participation in local theatre and sees
their role as one of community enrichment.

The Davidson Community Players now
produces four plays a year, as well as chil-
dren’s productions and workshops. The 2009
season includes productions of “West Side
Story,” “It’s a Wonderful Life,” “Driving
Miss Daisy” and “Barefoot in the Park.”
