written staff editorials’ on the nature of free speech; freedom
of the press and what our: ‘Perspectives ‘section hopes: 10
accomplish, The Davidsonian staff would like to commend
Bryan and Clint on their thoughtful and eloquent articles and
Voice our support on their behalf, AS.an editorial staff, we
agree that the mission of our Perspectives section. isto generate
incisive. debate within an open. forum, We also agree that all
Students have the right to express their opinions, as long | as
the Opinions are reasoned and do not slander or. threaten
any ‘particular individual or group of people. On a personal
level, however, as Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, I feel
that L owe-the student body; the facultyy the administration,
andthe Davidson community” my. wn. explanation as. to

The Davidsonian sees it as a & douraliig responsibility

Free. and open. discourse: may be an essential right in
American ‘society,’ but itis an absolute necessity. in an
academic environment, professor of mine, speaking not on
the subject of free speech, but instead on the nature of college
commencement: addresses, made an extremely relevant point.
Tn an aside’ during class, he casually asserted that the worst
Gliche i ina ‘commencement address comes when the speaker
tells the. graduates to’ “go into the real world.” ‘The professor

Sigued that the academic world i is in fact the real worl

_ oar my: appreciation fo. the focal for
passing a resolution pledging to protect. Davidson. students
from such. attacks, \cademia, most: importantly, requires

ts: ‘to takes intellectual Soa eee teh our words:

, duty > community. bu setkeag
and ourselves s , scholars, If. we-learn the wor ings of this

The Dabvidsonian

Editor-in-Chief
_ Brett Willis
“" Managing Editor
, Brian Park
yf News Editors
A, 2 Kelsey Lilley’ & Caroline Wood
; Ah =, Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
wigs Arts & Living Editor.

’ MOREE ‘Jennifer Gambrell
iy a7 wa hf, Yow! Editor

(io OM
ex Greening
ivr . * Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Nami Patel
Business & Circulation Managers.
Jordan Wall & Lauren Wright 4
Assistant Copy Editors.”
Joel Fineman & Ryan Price _&
Photography Staff of
Tripp Bartholomew, Bill Giduz & Lindsay Howard

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College.

Please address all correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or
$30 per semester. Email Jordan Wall at jowall@davidson.edu for
advertising inquiries.

First off, we would like to issue
a quick statement on our 2 week
absence from the Davidsonian.
Like many of you, we have been
taking emergency precautions to
prepare for the big night. Webtree
hysteria has officially hit Davidson’s
campus. Every year around this
time, Davidson turns from a pleasant
community founded on the honor
code to a cut-throat frenzy filled with
questionable conduct and desperate
measures. As always, we have
compiled a thorough investigation
of the mystery and practices of the
Webtree.

To begin, most students are completely perplexed by the
workings of Webtree. It seems odd that we have two whole
centers dedicated to writing and speaking in a language that
most of us are fluent in, while we have no center devoted
to Webtree, a dialect that surpasses binary code in difficulty.
In fact, it would not be too farfetched to scrap both centers
in favor of a Webtree extra help room. It would certainly
help students like Steve Rossiter 710, who, in his 5 years
at Davidson, has yet to understand its intricacies, instead
opting to pay a neuroscience major for aid. This trend may
become quite common on campus as students versed in
Webtree could create quite a business, receiving cash under
the table in exchange for Webtree guidance; of course these
Mafiosos would only take cash as to avoid detection from
the administration or IRS. Webtree might also see the rise
of other shadowy activities, perhaps the formation of cartels
specializing in the monopoly of classes on Webtree. These
secret cells, claiming that they are triple majors, could sign
up for ten to twelve classes in an attempt to stockpile valued
courses that can be used as trade bait once add/drop season
opens up. The victims of these scams would be hopeless
second semester seniors who are forced to trade all four
of their classes, including their thesis, for Human Biology
with a lab. Those unable to get into their last major class
and unwilling to succumb to the ways of the black market
will drastically change majors at the last minute, adding ten

.
&
x

CuHaruic Reiter,
Mauricio Simms,
Mark MILLARD

| Davidson hit by Webtree hysteria

Tue DAvVIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
NOVEMBER 18, 2009

music classes, which are relatively in low-demand, in order
to graduate with some kind of major.

Other facets to this typology classifying Webtree players
include students on opposite sides of the spectrum, some
radicals who refuse to be controlled by the system and others
who seem to live and die with every branch of Webtree. The
radicals appear to believe that they are outside the control of
Webtree and refuse to fill it out, opting to add/drop their way
to victory. Clearly these apples fell far from the tree. In the
end, Webtree continuously wins out leaving these students
classless or stuck with four W courses; oddly enough these
extremists still believe they “won” and will stick to their guns
next year.

Alternatively, other students are enslaved by Webtree, and
will withdraw from current classes to memorize every five
digit CRN number in order to sign up first. These students
continuously click “refresh” on their computers three days
prior to add/drop to prepare themselves for the hunt. Of
course, when Webtree falls short of perfection or is late, as it
was this year, these students suffer a state of paralysis and go
on hunger strike until Webtree is revived.

Unfortunately our investigation suggests that students
really do not have a choice in the matter because, following
a Calvinistic society in which predestination rules, Webtree
does not allow for free will. Rumor has it that buried beneath
Hansford Epes’ office in Chambers, down a spiral staircase
over 100 feet underground, lives the magical Webtree. The
branches of the tree are covered in sticky webs, representative
of classes, and a witch named Shirley tosses names at the
tree; wherever the names stick determines their schedule.
There is a light at the end of the tunnel because, regardless of
how you complete Webtree and how you feel about its faults,
Davidson students still end up with four quality professors
even though you might be stuck in Earth Art-From Lascaux
to Lutyens, MTWRF 8:30-11:15.

Charlie Reiter ’10 is a Political Science major from
Westport, CT. Mauricio Simms’ 1] is a Philosophy major from
Bowie, MD. Mark Millard ’12 is undeclared. He is from Oak
Head, NC. They can be contacted at chreiter @davidson.edu,
masimms@davidson.edu) and mamillard@davidson.edu,
respectively.

Question the altars of intolerance

No.an Boyp
Guest Columnist

Two weeks ago, the Davidsonian ran an article by
Michael Spangler ’10 entitled “Homosexuality Against
Christian Tradition.” Mr. Spangler shared his opinion that
homosexuality is a sin and has no place in Christian life.
In addition to stating his personal religious opinions, Mr.
Spangler rebuked Davidson College for being supportive
of homosexuality, specifically for sponsoring the National
Coming Out Day faculty and staff panel discussion on
October 7. While Mr. Spangler is certainly entitled to believe
whatever he wishes, I believe that his charge to Davidson
College to “direct them [Davidson students] toward the
path of life: repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ”
represents a dangerous and irresponsible attempt to foist his
own religious views upon a community of his peers.

I believe that evil is born when one individual attempts to
force his or her opinions onto another. If Mr. Spangler wants
to follow a strict interpretation of “God’s word,” then that’s
his prerogative. Why, though, should he attempt to dictate
college policy? If he wishes, he can engage in civil intellectual
debate with another individual (as he and I did not so long
ago), for in that situation both individuals are on an equal
playing field and are mutually interested in exploring the
subject being debated. But for Mr. Spangler to ask Davidson
to discontinue certain events, such as the National Coming
Out Day panel and to embrace an intolerant philosophy is to
eradicate that level playing field and to force the issue at hand
on every Davidson student, many of whom may not agree
with his suggestions.

The truth is that Mr. Spangler’s biblical literalist
philosophy is out of touch with modern society. Though I
have no data to support this claim, I guarantee you that a
vast majority of Davidson College students are supportive of
homosexual people and do not believe that there is anything
elementally “wrong” with homosexuality. Why should
Davidson alter its acceptance of homosexuality to suit the
demands of a minority of the student body? The control of
Davidson College policy lies with the students; and until such
time as a majority of the student body holds disapproving

opinions of homosexuality, Mr. Spangler’s suggestions will
have no support.

Now I would like to present my own personal views on
the relationship between religion and homosexuality. Unlike
Mr. Spangler, I am not demanding that anyone change his
or her mind; I am merely presenting my own views for
contemplation. I think Mr. Spangler is right when he says that
homosexuality is against the Christian tradition; honestly,
anyone who is Christian and who supports homosexuality has
to be aware of this discrepancy. Many individual Christians
have made a separate peace with this issue; they would
agree with me in that they intuit, primally and simply, that
homosexuality is not wrong. They call themselves “liberal
Christians” to accommodate their viewpoints. But why should
they do this? It is obvious to me that Christianity, according
to its official teachings, rejects homosexuality. If this is true,
then Christians must either believe that homosexuality is a sin
or realize that the faith they practice is not true Christianity;
as Mr. Spangler says in his article, “such a god is an idol of
our own making.”

Mr. Spangler, however, assumes that making our own
god is a bad thing. I say that it is not. I am not Christian, but
I believe in God. My beliefs are guided by my sense of what
is right, by my own knowledge as a human being that love
is the chief end of all our pursuits and that evil is whatever
harms another or restricts his or her agency and free will.
The God I worship is the God of beauty, of life, of love, of
the knowledge that all we need in this world is to give our
love away with as much passion and fervor as we can and
to ask for nothing in return. I will not apologize for love. I
know in my heart of hearts that love could never be a crime;
and unless theological precepts of intolerance are surgically
removed from Christian dogma, then I can never endorse
Christianity.

Some may condemn me for my views and say that I will
end in Hell; to them, I can only say that I hope so, for if for
the sake of love I am cast down to their Hell, then it will seem
Heaven to me.

Nolan Boyd ‘12 is an English major from Dalton, GA.
Contact him at noboyd@davidson.edu.
