THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

In many ways, Barack Obama has
been very good to civil libertarians,
not to mention everyone else that
found the ACLU more and more
prescient as the Bush Administration
progressed. Obama repudiated the
“enhanced interrogation techniques”
of his predecessor and began the
closure of the Guantanamo Bay
prison camp in an executive order on
his first day in office, and last week,
he made the admirable decision
to declassify a number of memos
written by the Office of Legal
Counsel (OLC) in 2003. Those memos discussed the legality
of interrogation techniques which the CIA had used on
Khalid Sheik Mohammed and Abu Zubaydah, two Al-Qaeda
members that were captured in Pakistan.

What the memos contain confirms the iron rule of Bush-
era declassification: no matter how much incompetence and
criminality previous disclosures suggest, the truth is worse
than you thought. Not only did these memos somehow
determined that all manner of techniques were legal, like
waterboarding, sleep deprivation, “walling,” in which the
prisoner’s head is repeatedly struck against a wall, or even
enclosing a prisoners head in a container filled with insects,
ala 1984’s Room 101, but the memos went into excruciating
detail on the manner in which the techniques were applied.
They even established strict limits on the number of times
a prisoner could legally be waterboarded, a procedure for
which the United States executed Japanese war criminals
after World War II, at ninety times per month.

The politicians and pundits that defend these barbaric
practices are quick to evoke the ticking-time bomb scenario:
an elaborate counterfactual that purports to justify the
legalization of these techniques. In it, heroic Jack Bauer-
esque interrogators know that massive attack, usually nuclear,
is eminent, and only through torture can they coax life-saving
information out of some captured terrorist. It would be crazy
not to torture in such a situation, they argue, and it is — but
not as crazy as believing that such a fairy tale resembles the
world we’re living in.

Webster Doctrine

Do we really want our government
convinced that it can get away with
war crimes?

These memos, and the flurry of other disclosures that have
followed them, prove that Jack Bauer differs from the Bush
Administration in a crucial way: Jack’s methods might be
unethical, but at least he knows what he’s doing. This week, it
came out that the CIA employees and Administration officials
that cooked up the torture program borrowed techniques from
the Army’s SERE program, which trains servicemen to resist
torture in the event that they are captured. The program’s
planners were unaware that SERE models its techniques off
of the methods used by the Communist North Koreans and
North Vietnamese to elicit false confessions, even though
the Army warned that such techniques were ineffective and
would produce bad intelligence.

Ali Soufan, one of the CIA agents that questioned Abu
Zubaydah before traditional, legal techniques were discarded,
wrote in the New York Times last week that this is exactly,
what happened: Zubaydah provided useful information under
normal procedures, but Jed the CIA on a number of wild

rosser D, “Sandy” Camegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injuries due to another person’s negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client's best interest

im’s career-long track record of achieving
successful results for his clients has canned

him recognition thraughout NC and among his
peers in the lepal field nationwide. He has been named

to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistent) above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of law including, contract preparation and review, residential
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina, and cominercial closings, land development and acquisition

Asa formet NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller i as well as zoning. Sandy is licensed to practice before all
a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the state-and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional In addition to his many responsibilities as an attomey,
Hiigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience, Sandy is dedicated to his farnily and to his conmmunity.
hie has dedicated his legal practice to helping people Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, curreatly live
who have been injured by the negligent or crieninal in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
conduct of offers, children, Annie and Prosser. Sandy served many years as a
Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and 74 commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
attend the Davidson United Methodist Church. A ; 4 various Town of Davidson committees, he is a member
member of the Lions Chub, Jim also serves on the Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands : MT Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M, and in has

Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and THe coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board. ect Og Davidson, Cornelius and Mooresville communities.
APPEALS + BANKRUPTCY © BUSINESS LAW s by LITIGATION « PERSONAL INTL
LAW FIRM CATIO ALINJURY

COLLECTIONS « ESTATE PLANNING Exceptional Atorneys... Close to Home: REAL ESTATE + WILLS & TRUSTS

209 Delburg Street, Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Wepnespay, Aprit 29, 2009 = 13

a er en — -
Torture architects deserve justice

goose chases when he was tortured. According to Soufan,
Zubaydah did not produce any useful intelligence under
torture. Even more disturbingly, McClatchy’s News Service
reported last week that Zubaydah and other detainees were
tortured because the government believed, largely without
evidence, that he was withholding evidence of a connection
between Al-Qaeda and Saddam Hussein. Zubaydah had
no stich information because no such relationship existed,
but that didn’t stop the CIA from torturing Zubaydah and
sending another detainee, Ibn al Sheikh al Libi, to be tortured
in Egypt, where he confessed fictitious relationship with
Saddam Hussein’s regime in Iraq. In a very direct way, the
CIA’s torture program contributed to the agency’s biggest
intelligence failure since 9/11, and the Bush Administration’s
disastrous decision to invade Iraq.

It’s hardly surprising that the
hardliners in the Bush Administration,
who had long believed that executive
power had become too restrained to
properly defend the country, would
resort to extreme, illegal measures in
secret

To a certain extent, these actions are understandable,
if not exactly forgivable. It’s true that, when the decisions
were made, all of the relevant people were operating under
what Glenn Beck might call a 9/12 mindset: namely, a state
of shock and blind panic, coupled with a conviction that
the old rules didn’t apply and that we should do whatever it
takes to prevent another attack. It’s hardly surprising that the
hardliners in the Bush Administration, who had long believed
that executive power had become too restrained to properly
defend the country, would resort to extreme, illegal measures
in secret. But it’s also not surprising that decisions made in
this way would be horribly bad ones, and the evidence we
have now strongly suggests that the Bush Administration
harmed our intelligence-gathering operations and jeopardized
our security while dragging this country’s principles through
the mud.

This is precisely why we should make sure that the
architects of this policy pay a real price for their crimes, and
why it so troubling that Obama and the Democratic leadership
in the Senate have indicated that they won’t do so. In 2002,
Bush, Cheney, and their subordinates like David Addington
and John Yoo, probably expected not to pay a serious
professional price for their actions, and certainly not a legal’
one. After all, Richard Nixon was pardoned after he left office,
as was Oliver North after the Iran-Contra scandal broke. Yet
if the lawyers at the OLC or the interrogators at the CIA were
thinking clearly about the legality of their actions, or even
the long-term consequences, they might not have done this.
“Looking forward, not back,” as the President is suggesting,
won’t just confirm that the law means one thing for powerful
American politicians and another for the rest of the world,
it will create a powerful lesson for people managing future
emergencies. Do we really want our government convinced
that it can get away with war crimes?

Zeke Webster '09 is a political science major from
Clemmons, N.C. Contact him at zewebster @davidson.edu.

