THE DavIDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
Fesruary 25, 2009

VERONICA THOMAS
Staff Writer

While studying for exams in the Union
last semester, you may have been surprised
by the familiar tunes of the traditional holiday
treat, “The Nutcracker.” The eight leotard-
clad girls you saw maximizing the cramped
space of the 900 Room with pirouettes and
grand jetés were members of the student-
established dance company, Gamut.

In computer graphics and photography,
the “gamut” is a complete subset of colors.
Like such a spectrum of various shades,
Gamut Dance Company, founded in 2005 by
two Davidson students, Kendal Stewart ’05
and Lucy Marcil ’05, is a technically trained
group of dancers that performs a wide variety
of chorographical styles.

According to Gamut manager Diane
Kaliris ’11, the nine pieces in the third annual
spring show each have a unique theme,
movement and inspiration.

Out of the nine small-group pieces in the
March 13 show, six are choreographed and
casted by the students. The advisors must
approve each choreographer’s proposal, in
which the vision and style of the piece is
explained.

The advisors “focus on the artistry of the
dance and integrity of the choreography,”
said Kaliris. This enables the group to
fulfill its mission of providing an outlet
for experienced and dedicated dancers to
continue their growth as performers and
choreographers.

The styles of Gamut’s performances
range from the traditional schools of jazz,
tap and ballet to adventurous modern, lyrical

ope

and contemporary ballet. Each artistic
work is born from and structured around
the individual choreographer’s unique
inspiration, whether it is a story, a dream or
even a picture.

With its contemporary movements
evoked by one of the choreographer’s
favorite sculptures, “City Square,” one piece
in the spring show, gracefully fuses the
worlds of art and dance. Alex Zsoldos ’09,
the choreographer, explores the isolation that
can emerge in a busy, industrialized society.

The eight members of Gamut are
encouraged to both develop their creative
ingenuity and to also continue their technical
training by taking two mandatory dance
classes each week, including advanced

Live with Lexi

Jon WOLF
Staff Writer

This week’s Live Thursday will feature
the indie/pop/electronica music of Alexis
Valauri-Orton ’12, who goes by “Alexis
V.O.” on stage. Valauri-Orton took one year
off work on her songwriting and musical
development in her hometown of Seattle,
Washington before coming to Davidson.

Her current project has been going for
about a year and a half, during which she
has played between 15 and 20 shows both
in Seattle and in Davidson. Valauri-Orton
lists Radiohead, Death Cab for Cutie,
Sufjan Stevens and John Mayer as a few
of her -influences, and also bills some of
her music as a mellower version of Imogen

Ee

“|

; : by Jou Wolf
Alexis Valauri-Orton 12 will perform original songs at Live Thursdays this week.

Heap. Her newer material, she notes, is more
acoustically based.

Alexis V.O. will debut two songs on
Thursday, one of which will feature Jackie
Kim ’11 on cello. Jessie Parker ’12 will also
be featured for two or three songs. In addition
to having opened for Matt Costa’s 900 Room
show last fall, Valauri-Orton also plays flute
and sings in the student band “You and Your
Effects.”

For more information about Alexis
V.O., and to hear some of her music, see
her MySpace page at www.myspace.com/
alexisvo.

The doors of the 900 Room will open
at 10:00 p.m. for her Live Thursday event,
and she will begin performing shortly
thereafter.

ere + a ehe tet.

Hyon Os We

photo by Laney Schenk :

ballet In addition to these three hours
of professional instruction, the student
dancers rehearse for up to six hours per
week. According to Kaliris, the small group
works closely together like a team, and the
eclectic dynamic of different ages, styles and
personalities creates a cohesive balance.
Laura Swearingen ’09 choreographed her
departing piece to Zoe Keating’s “Walking

ho anonymously howered her with Pits.

shane

_ for five, consecutive, days This tradition.

OOS:

come around ‘faster than you might think. -

photo by Laney sehen
The members of Gamut rehearse in

preparation for their spring show Fri.
March 13. Tickets are on sale now.

Man,” in which she features a soloist pitted
against a core of dancers in a contemporary
ballet style. This piece represents
Swearingen’s sadness with the end of her
Davidson dance career.

The dance also illustrates the truly
unique nature of Gamut Dance Company as
an opportunity to not only challenge one’s
dance skills, but to also push the limits of art
and choreography.

Gamut’s spring performance is March 13
at 8 p.m. in the Duke Family Performance
Hall. Tickets are $5 for students and -$9
general admission.

name. on. a cooler i in your ‘eating house’:

Freshman it’s already time to. start planning‘ “colors. Fill it with coozies, sunglasses and:

- : Table Dancing T day: § Sure to delight. 6 “into the Davidson family

Be ae i

Exhibition aids NOLA.

Carey LeicH Evans
Staff Writer

This month The Mint Museum of
Charlotte is showing pieces from the New
Orleans Museum of Art’s collection as a
fundraiser for the Katrina Recovery Fund.

The traveling exhibition, Masterworks
from the New Orleans Museum of Art,
includes a variety of well-known artists
spanning from the sixteenth to the twentieth
century.

During Hurricane Katrina, the NOMA
suffered over six million dollars in damage,
which is a tragic blow to the 100 year old
museum.

The NOMA has since received numerous
dontations to purchase works spanning many
periods and provenances. This is the first time
that the resulting collection, the “stars” of the
NOMA, have been allowed to tour for such
an exhibition. The money raised during the
tour will go towards repairing the NOMA’s

damaged structure, as well as its sculpture
garden.

The exhibition will include pieces by
Claude Lorrain, Giambattista Tiepolo,
Francois Boucher, John Singleton Copley,
Benjamin West, Edgar Degas, Auguste
Rodin, Mary Cassat and Jackson Pollock.
A complete list of the works is available at
www.mintmuseum.org.

The director of the NOMA, Charles Mo,
will be giving alecture entitled “Masterworks”
from the New Orleans Museum of Art on
Sunday, March 15, at 3 p.m. The museum
will also host two Curators’ Tours on April
2 and May 7 from 2:00-2:45 p.m. These
events are free with admission, and the cause
is a worthy one.

The exhibition will run from Saturday,
March 14 until Sunday, June 21. The museum
hours are Tuesday 10-9 p.m.; Wednesday-
Saturday 10-5 p.m.; Sunday 12-5 p.m.

For more information, call Charles Mo,
704-337-2001.
