THE DAVIDSONIAN

I )=3—

SPORTS

, = —----

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 29, 2009

15

Wildcats’ season ends with Pm Feeling Lucky
SoCon quarterfinal loss

ZACHARY ZIMMERMAN
Staff Writer

Davidson faced Samford on Thursday to
open this year’s SoCon Men’s Tennis Tour-
nament in Elon, N.C.

After a thrilling comeback win, David-
son took on the top-seeded Furman Paladins
on Friday in the SoCon Quarterfinals, drop-
ping the match 4-0 and ending the season.

At first, things looked grim for Davidson
on Thursday. Samford came out with heat
in the beginning and got off to an early 3-0
lead, seizing the doubles points and wins at
the No. 6 and No. 2 singles spots.

Calum Gee ’12 ignored the lead and cut
it to 3-1 for Davidson, winning by a score
of 7-5 6-1 at the No. 4 singles spot. David-
son then registered the last three points of the
match to win 4-3. Eric Noble 10 sent the
No. | singles match to a third set, winning by

Baseball, from page I 6

straight day withough yeilding a run; he end-
ed up giving up only three hits over 8 and 2/3
innings in the series against UNC-G batters.

Tuesday, April 28, the Wildcats had their
four-game winning streak snapped as they
lost 11-3 to the Demon Deacons of Wake
Forest University. The out-of-conference
defeat should serve as a wake-up call as the
’Cats prepare for the final stretch of confer-
ence play.

Davidson travels to Charleston, S.C. to
face conference foe, College of Charleston,
this weekend in a three game series. The
Wildcats will look to ride this wave of timely
hitting and stifling relief to improve upon
their 11-10 record in the Southern Confer-
ence.

Baseball
(17-22, 11-10)

Results:

4/22 vs. N.C. A&T W 7-0
4/24 vs. UNCG W 5-4
4/25 vs. UNCG W.4-2
4/26 vs. UNCG W 5-4

4/28 @ Wake Forest L 3-11

Next Up:
5/1-5/3 @ CofC
5/5 vs. Duke
5/6 vs. Va. Tech

Notes: The Wildcats swept UNCG over the
weekend to earn their first SoCon series sweep
sinee sweeping App. State in 2005.

a score of 3-6, 6-3, 7-5.

Following Noble’s stellar performance,
Scott Myers ’09 captured a victory at the No.
3 spot by a score of 5-7, 7-5, 7-5. This was
Myers’ team leading 12th singles win on the
season.

With things all knotted up at 3-3, the
match was left to be decided by Arie Hefter
’11. At the No. 5 spot, Hefter won in a thrill-
ing third set tiebreaker to clench the match
for Davidson and to advance in the tourna-
ment. Hefter not only captured the tiebreak-
er, but rallied from being down 5-1 to win in
an exciting match.

After dropping the doubles point on Fri-
day to Furman, Davidson lost at the 1, 4 and
6 spots. The season ended in a blanking for
Davidson, but definitely had a positive out-
come as Davidson advanced to the second
round. Davidson’s record declined to 7-17
overall and Furman advanced to 20-7.

LAO isos aypapennass ament tithe sf

ment tf

ie
7

Lance Harden '09 led the ’Cats in the _
SoCon Championships, winning the
10,000 meter run.

Men’ Ss Tennis
(7-17, 2-8)

‘Results:
SoCon Tournament
4/23 vs. #8 Samford W 4-3
4/24 vs. #1 Furman L 0-4

Next Up:
Season Complete

Notes:
The ’Cats won the final three singles matches to
overcome a 3-1 deficit in their first round SoCon
tournament victory over Samford.

Curis YOuN'
Staff Writer

This year, it has been my job in this space
to bring you articles that directly engaged
prominent issues in the sports world. This
column has discussed myriad issues and
sports, ranging from the NBA playoffs and
the Super Bowl to women’s college basket-
ball and field hockey. I have expressed opin-
ions that have generally tried to deal with
very broad issues in sports. I want to discuss
one more that Davidson students are lucky
enough to be able to understand.

Individual Davidson teams do not lack
coverage in this publication. They receive
plenty of ink each week during their respec-
tive seasons, I choose not to address any par-
ticular sport but rather address the Davidson
athletic program as a whole. As one of the
smallest Division I schools in the country,
Davidson focuses on trying to compete at the
highest level of intercollegiate athletics with-
out compromising academic standards.

I walked out of CVS today to the sight
of Frank Ben-Eze ’12 interacting with small
children in the parking lot. How many of us
have figured out some way to get Stephen
Curry ’10 to sign something for us so that we
can have a lasting memory of the recent bas-
ketball success? I am not saying that athletes
at other schools do not interact with fans and
participate in their communities. They do. I
do think it’s important to realize how much
we take it for granted, though. Case in point:
I did not bat an eye at seeing Ben-Eze’s in-
teraction today until I sat down to write this
article.

Being our school’s flagship program,
the basketball team obviously receives more
press and attention than the numerous oth-
er athletes on campus. But those athletes
should be recognized for their contributions
as well. Athletes do not come to Davidson
seeking glory or having delusions of gran-
deur regarding where sports are going to take
them. Rather, they come to receive a world
class education in a special place.

Distance runner Lance Harden ’09 did
not arrive on campus hoping to turn into an
Olympic athlete. I lived next to Lance fresh-
man year and did not even realize that he was
a runner until he ran circles around the rest
of our class in the cake race. Lance just fin-

Track an Field

Results
4/25-4/26 SoCon Outdoor
Championships
Statesboro, G.A.
Men- Sth
Women-- 9th

Next Up:
Season Complete

Notes:

Danielle Ruggieri ’11 won the 10,000 meter
event at the SoCon Outdoor Championships
with a time of 37:45.13. Ruggieri also ran to a
fifth place finish in the 5,000 meters.

ished a stellar track career with a Southern
Conference championship in the 10,000 me-
ter event. Similarly, swimmers Merritt Peele
’09 and Alanna Ream ’09 did not arrive on
campus solely trying to re-write the David-
son record books. But they did.

Even when an athlete does achieve the
pinnacle of athletic glory on this campus, as
Stephen Curry has done, he stays the same
guy as when he arrived. Curry might be
leaving early for the draft, but even he could
not have dreamed the level of success he
achieved on the basketball court here. He,
too, understood that he was receiving an edu-
cation first.

With the disappointment at his decision
to leave, we can take solace in the fact that
a finer ambassador for the school would
have been difficult to find. He handled his
role as the face of Davidson College with
dignity, grace and class. Never once did we
see a negative headline as is typical at many
schools that place athletics over academics.
For-that, I will always be grateful.

We are very lucky to have the ability to
watch our athletic teams play under coach-
es that understand Davidson and its values.
Everyone wants our teams to succeed at the
highest level possible, but certainly not at the
expense of academics and citizenship. Our
coaches and administration have refused to
give in to growing pressure to win at all costs.
For that, we should be thankful as well.

No Davidsonian writer has needed to
write about steroids, drug issues or arrests
with our athletes. Complaints from the stu-
dent body are few and far between. At such
a small school, Davidson athletes have no
choice but to infuse themselves into the Da-
vidson community like every other Davidson
student. They ask for no special treatment
and receive none.

With my career winding down, I look
back and am thankful for getting to have
such positive interactions with our athletes,
coaches and teams. College sports may fast
be becoming more like professional sports,
but in our small bubble in North Carolina,
our teams have managed to avoid that temp-
tation.

For having teams actually worth pulling
for and athletes worth getting to know, we
should all feel lucky.

Women’s Tennis
(12-12, 6-4)

Results
SoCon Tournament
4/24 vs. Ga. Southern W 4-1
4/25 vs. Furman L 1-4

Next Up:
Season Complete

Notes:

Michelle Fanney ’09 and Virginia Berry ’10
each earned All-SoCon honors prior to winning
their singles matches in the Wildcats’ quarterfi-

nal win over Ga. Southern.
