2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

KATHERINE JOHNSON
Staff Writer

The term “revolutionary” might not be
one that students would normally use to
describe E.H. Little Library, but behind the
fagade of this stoic, neoclassical Davidson
College icon, a technological revolution is
taking place.

Over the past several months, the library
has significantly augmented its electronic da-
tabase collection in order to address students’
changing needs, weather a rough economy
and adapt to a rapidly digitalizing world.

While the library still has printed aca-
demic and news journals available for student
use, it now subscribes almost exclusively to
electronic resources.

According to E.H. Little Library Director
Jill Gremmels, “It’s really clear that students
want e-resources” in lieu of hard-copy jour-
nals. These e-resources enable students to
access myriad journals at the click of a mouse
instead of having to scour library stacks for
printed journals.

“Faculty members on sabbatical and stu-
dents who are studying abroad or on break
can benefit from e-journals,” Gremmels said,
“because they do not have to be on campus to
access journals.”

In addition to enhancing journal accessi-
bility, the library’s use of electronic resourc-
es has allowed it to substantially increase
its collection of journals. Head of Library
Instruction and Collection Development Su-
sanna Boylston shared a few figures, reveal-

~—“e

“o qumeis

2/21/09 21:51

News
Library reconsiders electronic resource holdings

ing that the library has a collection of 46,750
e-journals. This figure is significantly larger
than “the 2,200 print subscriptions we would
have had if we had not [switched to e-jour-
nals,]” Boylston said.

Comparing Davidson’s e-journal collec-
tion with those of peer institutions, Grem-
mels claimed that most other small liberal
arts colleges have “anywhere from 18,000 to
30,000” e-journals. “We could have as many
as 50,000 e-journals by the end of the year,”
Gremmels added, which would make Da-
vidson’s e-resource collection substantially
larger than those of similarly sized schools.

One particularly intriguing new e-re-
source is a collection of Latin American
newspapers which “was a gift from a David-
son parent and really filled in a big gap in our
collections,” Boylston said. “Students major-
ing in Political Science, Spanish and History
could really benefit from such a collection.”

A large impetus behind the growth of
e-resources has been the economy: in these
troubled economic times, publishers of aca-
demic journals prefer publishing electroni-
cally. As Gremmels sums it up, “publishers
save money by not publishing on paper.”

E-resources could also contribute to en-
vironmental sustainability efforts, as publish-
ing electronically clearly saves paper. Grem-
mels advised that students should be mindful
of how much they are printing, as that could
limit the impact that e-resources have on im-
proving environmental sustainability.

Both Boylston and.Gremmels stress that
the library has tried to digitalize its resource

: ICTR Oe TER

Zone Check

While conducting a zone check, an officer found the basement door of WDAV Radio
Station unlocked. The reporting officer observed many expensive items left unsecured
in the basement, including a Honda generator and misceHaneous electronics. The of-.
ficer searched and secured the basement; nothing appeared to be missing or damaged,

and there were no signs of forced entry.

2/20/09 16:39 Other

Baseball Field

An officer was dispatched to the Baseball Field, 200 Martin Ct. Dr. Upon arrival, offi-
cer observed a group of about 25 students with six cases of beer. Reporting officer told
the students to remove the alcohol and clean up the cans. Several students confronted
this officer and advised that they had been allowed to drink at baseball games for the
last ten years and asked for Chief Walker's personal cell phone number. Reporting of-
ficer stated he would not give out personal information on any Campus Police officer.
They then stated they wanted to speak with Chief Walker, so the reporting officer
contacted the chief, advised him of the situation and let the students talk to him.

2/20/09 17:26 Suspicious Person

An officer was contacted on the officer cell phone by a Davidson College employee.
He advised that his kids were in his back yard with the neighbor’s kids jumping on
trampoline when a man jumped over the fence, located in the Upper Satellite parking
lot, onto his property and then back again. The kids stated the man looked at

them from a distance, started to walk towards them and then turned and jumped back
over the fence. They described the man as middle-aged white male, non-student, with
a mustache, dressed in all black.

2/20/09 23:00 Hit and Run 2nd Tomlinson
An officer contacted the Sgt in reference to being struck by a vehicle. The officer
stated that three unknown subjects carrying a funnel tried to enter the Connor House
Party. The officer stated that when he confronted them the subjects took off running

to the 2nd Tomlinson Lot and he followed them. He stated that they got into a Honda
Accord. The officer stated that he was standing in the parking lot when the vehicle
approached. He stated that he moved to the side and the driver’s side mirror stuck his
dutybelt and his hand that had the funnel in it hit the windshield. The officer had a
BOLO sent out to the surrounding agencies in reference to the vehicle.

2/24/09 04:50

Suspicious Persons Soccer Field

The officer was contacted on the officer cell phone in reference to two subjects sitting
in a vehicle parked near the cemetery. The reporting officers observed two unoccupied
vehicles parked at the practice soccer field. The officers located the keys to both vehi-
cles laying on each. The officers checked the area and observed 10-15 subjects running
in to the back woods of the field. The officers spoke with one subject who advised that
he and some others were playing a game, but would not give specifics.

collections in a prudent fashion. “We can

only switch [from in-print format to electron--

ic format] if it’s safe for archival reasons,”
Gremmels said, stressing that they’ll only
switch to a digital format of a particular jour-
nal “if we’re confident we have the backup.”

Additionally, library staff has tried hard
to ensure that no academic departments have
been aversely effected by the increasing use
of digital journals.

For example, according to Gremmels,
the library still uses hard-copy art journals,
as they have higher quality photos than elec-
tronic art journals. Similarly, the library still
subscribes to in-print literary journals, as
they are “easier to read by hand.”

In addition to expanding and diversifying
e-subscriptions, the library is hoping to im-

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 25, 2009

plement further developments that students
could benefit from. According to Gremmel,
an Anthropology class is currently conduct-
ing a focus group on how students use the
library and how they see it growing in the
future.

Students might also remember filling out
a survey at the end of last year asking them
about potential library expansions and refur-
bishments. The results of these surveys were
seriously assessed, and library staff even
found an architect to do a feasibility study
in order to determine how the library could
expand in the coming years.

Unfortunately, “these sorts of projects are
dead in the water until the economy revises,”
Gremmels said “We’re hoping we can use
this time to listen more to our users.”

New locavore initiative

ALEX KOWALESKI
Staff Writer

The majority of produce Americans con-
sume every year is picked long before it is
fully ripe. It is then shipped long distances,
requiring great quantities of fossil fuels. Kris-
tina Johnson *10 is seeking to remedy this
problem by promoting Know Your Farms,
an arrangement where students and faculty
invest in local agriculture in exchange for a
share of the crop. «

A recent stay in India inspired Johnson to
promote this initiative. She spent her time at
a Buddhist monastery surrounded by farms,
where nearly all food came from “less than
200 yards away,” and markets were festooned
with “beautiful eggplants and cauliflowers.”

When Johnson returned to the United
States in December, she realized how our
food pales in comparison. Johnson’s first
meal in the U.S., at a Tucson sushi restau-
rant, caused her to realize that she had no
idea where the ingredients originated, and
that half of the meal was tasteless. This, she
claims, is typical of American food.

Seeking to improve Davidson students’
diets and inspired by her experience with lo-
cal consumption abroad, Johnson contacted
Christy Shy °96. Shy, whose diet is com-
prised almost entirely of food grown within
30 miles of Davidson, started Know Your
Farms for northern Mecklenburg County.

Johnson met with Shy to adapt Know
Your Farms for Davidson students and fac-
ulty. In the plan they developed, Davidson
students and faculty can purchase a box of
food that comes either once a week or every
two weeks, depending on the plan.

The boxes, according to Johnson, include
everything necessary to prepare a four-serv-
ing meal, including recipes. Johnson states
examples of foodstuffs will include “local
eggs...honey...cheese, greens, pork, chicken

Ds

“We thought: we needed to add some

ore: layers,” Blackburn said. <The gen-_

: ral public: should not only. hear about th

and ostrich.” She adds that “it all depends on
what is available” at any given time.

The price of the plan is four boxes for
$220 or eight boxes for $384. However,
Johnson stresses that education about local
agriculture is a critical part of the program.
Therefore, purchasers who volunteer four
hours at a local farm can purchase the four
box plan for $180 or the eight box plan for
$344.

Because each meal can serve four people,
says Johnson, and the cost can be split among
friends, the meals are less expensive than
eating at a local restaurant. Furthermore, she
adds that this is the “purest quality food, with
no chemicals or antibiotics.”

Johnson also lauds the positive effect that
the Know Your Farms initiative will have on
local farmers. “Small farmers,” she states,
“have a hard time keeping land because of
developers.” Developers usually pave the
land they’ve acquired, indirectly forcing
Americans to rely on large agribusinesses.

Johnson cited the talk by Paul Roberts on
his book “The End of Food,” and argued that
because of American’s increasingly central-
ized agriculture, a single health scare, such
as the recent one involving peanut butter,
can imperil a food’s availability in the whole
country. “We need new models which are
more regionally based,” Johnson said.

Whether investing in Know Your Farms
for gastronomical, economic or sustainability
reasons, Johnson’s efforts promise to supply
Davidson students and faculty with freshly-
grown, local food, while helping them gain
an appreciation for the local farmers who
make their living off the land.

Individuals interested in buying a local
food share are advised to contact Kristina
Johnson by e-mail and to sign up by Feb.
28. The boxes will be delivered to Duke
dormitory and the senior apartments every
Wednesday in March and April.

“more local. view of the
tt, On March. 16, elected.

