10 THe DavipsoniaAN WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 2009

SPORTS |
Current BCS system pleases no one

Sree, hel

ZERO LEE
“

Afhle

Locan LEwI
Sports Section Editor

Now that the conference championships
have been decided, college football enthusi-
asts who are not residents of Tuscaloosa, AL
or Austin, TX have an age-old bone to pick
with the BCS. Once again, an entire college
football season full of excitement and breath-
taking performances has culminated in an ul-
timately inconclusive national championship
match-up.

With no playoff system in place and five
undefeated teams remaining from various
conferences, critics of the BCS rear their
ugly heads, complaining that college foot-
ball has become more about the money than
the game. The bowl games are sponsored
by various companies and organizations and
they all bring in a substantial amount of mon-
ey, especially the popular BCS games.

A restructuring ofthe current bowl sys-
tem could allow-for sponsors to keep bringing
in the dough while leaving fans even more
enthused by crowning a legitimate national
champion—an accomplishment the current
system cannot boast this year, no matter the
result of the Jan. games.

This restructured system would maintain
the current BCS ranking system but would
eliminate the conference championship
games. The new system would limit sched-
ules to 11 games, removing an unnecessary
game with an FCS opponent.

The conclusion of the regular season
would be the weekend before Thanksgiving.
The top 8 teams at that point according to the
BCS would be awarded a chance to decide
the national championship on the field in a
playoff format. The remaining teams would

participate in the same lackluster bowl games
which exist now in order to appease the fans
of those teams and to fill the pockets of cor-
porate sponsors.

This new system would take the top
seven bowl game venues and use them for
playoff sites, rotating each year so each
sponsor would have its turn to host the na-
tional championship game. In this way, the
national championship would still be set by
this time of December and the championship

game would be played on Jan. 1, beginning:

the New Year with a bang.

Under this new system, no team would
play more than 14 games, the same number
of games Boise State could win this season,
without so much as sniffing the national
championship.. This new system would help
to eliminate conference bias and unfounded
assumptions.

This year’s second-ranked Texas Long-
horns made into the national championship
by about eight inches when their placekicker
Hunter Lawrence squeezed in a 46 yard field
goal as time expired.

Texas has narrowly escaped with victo-
ries in their last two games in a subpar Big
12 Conference, but will participate in the
national championship because their confer-
ence is considered stronger that TCU’s.

While TCU’s Mountain West Conference
is often considered weak, it currently boasts
three teams ranked in the top 25 compared
to the same number in the Big 12. TCU has
also defeated their opponents by a large mar-
gin of victory this year, averaging nearly 41
points per game and allowing only about 12.

Texas has similar numbers to its credit,
scoring about 41 points and giving up about
15. Why is it then so clear that Texas should

Martin ’11 leads ’Cats at Nike Invitational

ANNA STRINGFIELD
Staff Writer

Davidson swimming finished off its 2009
season with a tough meet in Gambier, Ohio
against various other schools at Kenyon’s
Nike Invitational. On Thursday, the competi-
tion heated up in the 800 free relay and the
miles. Starting things off for Davidson was
the women’s 800 free relay where the ’Cats’
A and B squads took third and ninth, respec-
tively. For the men’s same relay, Davidson
brought home 10th and 15th place finishes.

For the distance contestants, the ’Cats
swam well in both the men’s and women’s
miles. For the ladies’ 1650 yard event, Jes-
sica Delgehausen *11 took home seventh
place. Her teammates Caitlin Sheetz 710 and
Meagan Madden 712 also swam the race,
finishing in 11th and 19th places. For then
men’s mile, the David Kerman ’12 and Chris
Leonard ’13 finished in 17th and 19th places,
respectively.

Competition continued on Friday with
another prelims and finals session. Multiple

Wildcat

Davidson swimmers made it back for the
Friday night swimming. The evening started
with the women’s 200 freestyle relay which
the Davidson A Relay dominated. The team
of Emily Castle ’11, Jean DeOrnellas 713,
Alexa Richardson 711 and Lindsey Martin
’11 finished the race in a time of 1:36.17. For
the men’s relay, Davidson took home seventh
place. Other top finishers for Friday night in-
cluded Kelsi Hobbs ’13 with a fourth place
finish in the 200 yard fly, Lauren Kamper-
man °12 with a sixth place finish in the 400
IM. Martin won in the 200 yard freestyle
and Drew Onken’s ’13 swam the 400 IM in
school record time.

Saturday was full of tough racing once
again as the Cats competed in both prelims
and finals. Highlights for Saturday night in-
cluded Emily Castle’s first place finish in the
100 yard fly with a time of 56.41 seconds.
Other stellar performers included Martin with
another first place finish, this time in the 100
yard freestyle. The ’Cats will continue train-
ing and competing into second semester.

play for the national championship and TCU
should be snubbed?

It doesn’t make sense to me either.

The numbers do not lie. When Texas
has played legitimate defenses in Nebraska
and Oklahoma, the Longhorns have failed to
score more than 16 points. This past week-
end, golden boy McCoy and the high-and-
mighty offensive attack from Texas were
snuffed out for only 202 total yards and one
touchdown. They won because they played
‘against a team with an inferior offense.

A new system would allow all of this
to be settled on the gridiron instead of on
spreadsheets. Each of the five undefeated
teams along with Florida, Oregon and Ohio
State would be allowed to write their own
script, rather than have it done for them by a
faulty computer system.

Men’s Basketball § Swimming and Tennis Track and Field Women’s Basketball Wrestling

(2-6, 1-1) Diving (2-7, 2-1) (0-5, 0-0)

Results: Results: Results: Results: Results:
12/3 @ The Citadel W 74-63 . Fall Season Over Offseason 11/30 @ Furman W 81-78 12/2 @ Duke L 13-36

12/5 @ C of CL 55-67 10/3 Nike Results lat K 12/5 @ Western W 62-51 12/5 Davidson Open NTS
tonal at Ke- Next Up: Next Up: 12/7 vs. App. State L 59-68
Next Up: M nyon oles 5 Men 1/24 UNC Classic Next Up:
12/12 @ Gonzaga en- 4th (out of 5) 1/16 @ Clemson @ Chapel Hill, NC Next Up: 12/18 vs. Chattanooga
12/7 vs. TCNI Women- 3rd (out of 5) Women 12/13 vs. Wofford
1/16 vs. Presbytenan 12/18 @ Radford Notes: Alex Radsky ’11 won his

Next Up:

Notes: Jake Cohen ’13 and 1/16 @ Virginia Tech

JP Kuhlman ’13 each tallied
career-highs in points in their
first collegiate starts as the ’Cats
topped Citadel on Thursday for
their first SoCon win.

Notes: The Wildcats continue to first career tournament title in
Notes: Both the men’s and prepare for their season opener, Notes: Sophia Aleksandravicious the 133-Ib class at the Davidson
women’s team are hopeful that. the UNC Classic, scheduled for °13 registered her second double- Open. Charlie Wolff ’11 and Ben
their’strong play in the fall will January 24. double of the week, also the first Altman ’10 also placed in their
carry over to the spring as both two of her career, in Monday’s respective classes.
teams open play January 16. loss to App. State.

Notes: Drew Onken 713 led the
Wildcat men with three titles in
the 200 backstroke, breastroke
and individual medley events.
