THe BLOTTER ISSUE WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009 11

GREEK WEAK
COMPETITION HEATS | -
UP WITH “‘SMALLEST | - ©

ARMS”? CONTEST oo 7 nT J : :
SEE PAGE 3

SS

SERS MRSS

U BI ORTA UBERTAS

DAVIDSON'S NEWS FOLLOWER

Greek Week April 22, 2009 ~ i _ a Bee THE Davinsonian

Tik1, Trk1, LET’s
GET FREAKY: HO,

HUM, THAT SOUNDS ‘
, The Yowl Ayts Section, LO Innovates New Housing
DUMB a
SEE PAGE 10. Davidson—Due to the size of will also a serve as the derelict
Here at the Yowl we pride ourselves on excellence in reporting, often the Class of 2013, RLO is facing themed hall.
n events and occurences that ordinarily escape the public eye. Our staff is | a serious housing crisis. It appears RLO Director Joseph
ommitted 110% to bringing you, our reader, the most up-to-date informa-_ | that there are literally not enough Fitzgerald commented “We

ion regarding all the insignificant happenings on campus and elsewhere.
Reporting the news is no small task. The endless interviews and inves-
igations we must undertake after long periods of travel can be taxing. The
owl staff has found that one of the best releases from these pressures is the
leasure of reading. We are proud to present to you a Yowl favorite of the
ighest literary caliber. Its genius lies in its universality: everybody poops.

rooms on campus to accommodate _ hope to convert the 900 room
all students. RLO insists that they into a female quad. Things

do not want to alter the freshmen might get a little awkward dur-
experience and as a result a group ing Live Thursdays but the girls
of rising sophomores have no can deal with it.”

housing at the moment. But unbe- Tom Ross was unusually ex-
knownst to many, RLO has been cited to have sophomores sleep
testing a number of solutions that over at his house every week-
should provide adequate housing end. Ross stated emphatically
for all students. “The first person to fall asleep

Ode to the Public Restroom
Toilet paper on the seat

Sometimes there are drops of water or other things, and it gets wet Last semester’s “Do It In the is a weiner!” Visitors will have
. in patches Dark” sleepover on the Cham- to vote on watching either “10
But you really gotta go, so you have no choice bers lawn in tents was actually a Things I Hate About You” or “A
but to sit down. social experiment with very real. Walk to Remember.” Rumors of
A powerful rush of synchronized peeing consequences for participating pillow-fight mixers with Fifth
Like a waterfall students. RLO would ideally like Cannon residents have yet to be
: Or eerily eccentric music. those students to rent tents from confirmed.
CONNECTION TO | Hopefully you don’t have to take a dump, because if you do, you know | Davidson Outdoors for the entirety Many students also have
S OMALI PIRATES she’ ll be listening in the next stall. of the next acddemic year. While been found sleeping in the
SEE PAGE 5 And judging you. not traditionally a hall, the site — library, which should also pro-
Even though she poops too, sometimes. will be included with the Cannon vide housing. Fitzgerald com-
She also might recognize you by your shoes, and see you outside the building for administrative pur- mented “people already sleep
bathroom somewhere, and know exactly what you were just doing | poses. Besides a few cold months on those library couches. There

in there. from December through February, are two beds right there.” RLO
Especially if it smells a little funny. North Carolina’s temperate climate —_ will continue to use its creativ-
SPRING FROLICS . Flush with your foot, open the door of the stall while you fasten your should make the “Fifth Cannon” ity to accommodate all students
belt hall very enjoyable. The lawn seeking on-campus housing..
AND ALCOHOLICS: Look at yourself in the mirror
turn your head from side to side, touch your hair
CLOSER THAN and lean in

PB &J? and make a face
° and a noise of disgust.
SEE PAGE 4 Someone on your left is doing the same thing
But you don’t really know her, so you smile awkwardly into the
mirror
and hope she sees you, because if not
it just looks like you’re admiring your reflection.
She smiles back, and you both emit slurred gutteral squeaks that sort of
sound like the word “hi”, which is how unacquainted girls say hello to each
OF THE WEEK better in situations like this.
You look back at yourself in the mirror and continue to scrub your
SEARCH: hands.
(73 You’re pretty sure they have to be clean by now.
‘APACHE INDIAN You both make a move for the paper towel rack at the same time.
Boom SHACK-A-LAK” She stumbles backward to let you go first. You mumble
something that’s supposed to be “Thanks.”

You get there, and it seems to be stuck. You struggle
with it.

1 She says, “Oh, is it stuck?”
You say, “Yup.”
You both titter uncomfortably.

You wipe your hands on the seat of your pants and walk out as quickly
as possible, hoping she will not be heading in the same direction.

You wait outside for her to leave, pretending to be on the phone
Your Davidson Honor Section then sneak back in

Editors: to excrete your fecal matter
Alex Greening in peace.

or
who advised that he was speaking with his girlfriend. The bouncer
advised the subject that he was to leave the establishment because.
he \ was underage: and in an intoxicated state’The subject proceedec
j to argue with the bouncer and other club employees who had arriv
as backup. The bouncers Proeeaes to rock the ables in the face:

2G EEQEBE GES

fficials: were notified. ‘after the subject went
aft ‘organized formal activities concluded The. subjec
the 1 pone morning in his own bed, bathed i in several different be

Chevy Chase

Writers:
Brett Chikowski
Peter Bruton
Amanda Ottaway

Note: The Yow! is a satirical supple-
ment to The Davidsonian. Hence,
nothing i in it should be taken as
truth. Word.

