4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Tuesday, Nov. 3 will bring many impor-
tant developments for the town of Davidson,
including the election of new seats on the
Town Board and the School Board.

Eight candidates will vie for the position
of Town Commissioner; five seats are avail-
able. The candidates are a diverse group of
leaders representing a number of different
professions and background experiences.

Three of the candidates are incumbents
already serving on the Town Board: Margo
Williams, who has been a Board member
for fourteen years, has also served on the
town Planning Board, Community Relations
Committee and the Public Arts Commis-
sion and was the founding president of the
Davidson Housing coalition; Laurie Venzon,
a two-year Board member and former Bank.
of America executive who hopes to focus on
maintaining community despite Davidson’s
continued growth; and Brian Jenest, an archi-
tectural firm director who is concerned about
the town’s transportation issues, including
the commuter rail.

Candidates also include Drew Crawford
01, owner of the Wooden Stone gallery, who
believes the town must focus on economic
and commercial issues (including small busi-
ness development) as well as the preserva-
tion of public space, and Mickey Pettus, a lo-
cal pharmaceutical and medical device pro-
fessional. Connie Wessner, who has worked
on the Davidson Housing Coalition and the
town Planning Board, stresses the impor-
tance of building relationships in order to
develop collaborative solutions to issues the

re a a

News
Town prepares for elections

Town Commissioner, School Board up for vote

town faces.

Nick Gibietis, an employ of Apple Com-
puters and a town resident of 18 months,
hopes to use his experience working in simi-
lar suburban towns to educate his service to
Davidson and is particularly interested in the
development of the commuter rail project.
Tim Dreffer, who has served on the Down-
town Davidson board and the Davidson El-
ementary School leadership team, stressed
the importance of re-prioritizing the financial
investments and concerns of the town.

Davidson Police Chief Fountain Walker
also planned to run for the position; however,
he dropped out of the race in September.

On Oct. 15, the Lake Norman Chamber
of Commerce hosted a community forum in
which candidates could express their views
and speak with voters directly. The forum was
divided into six segments, in which candi-
dates discussed several relevant town issues,
including ways of preserving Davidson’s
sense of community, affordable housing, the
financial condition of the town-owned cable
system and their own plans for unpopular but
necessary developments and legislation.

One seat on the Charlotte Mecklenburg
Schools District 1 board (which includes Da-
vidson, Cornelius and Huntersville) is also
open, and three candidates will vie for that
position: Strayer University writing profes-
sor and former primary and secondary level
educator Gail Summerskill; Rhonda Lennon,
founder of Families United for North Meck-
lenburg Education; and Huntersville resident
Robin Bradford.

Another community forum will take place
on October 22 at 7:00 at St. Alban’s Church.

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2009

emma a.

AG

photo by Bill Giduz

|

Students participate in a sushi-eating contest during halftime of the football

game versus Morehead State Oct. 10. The contest, sponsored by Sabi,
a season long football promotion called the Red and Black campaign.

costa,

is part of

‘hair of the: Theatre Department,

The pla will be in the Duke. Family Per
formance Hall at 8:00 p.m, on Friday an

co

To the Davidson Family,
Before | begin the next chapter in my life, |

and at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday./

wanted to take this opportunity to personally
thank all of the loyal alumni, students and fans
_of Davidson College who have so passionately
supported me over the past three years.
Davidson has been a part of making me

the person who | am today and I will always
remain a Wildcat at heart

it is my hope that you will continue to support me
as | begin my NBA journey. Whether in Golden
State or wherever my basketball travels take me,

_ you can be assured that | will always represent
Davidson to the best of my ability. | plan on
remaining an active member of the Charlotte |
and Davidson communities and intend on
achieving my goal by earning my college degree.

_ My time at Davidson has left me with many lasting
memories that | will cherish forever. | would also
like to thank all of the coaches, teammates,
professors, fans, alumni, trustees and staff who
have mentored me along the way. | am proud

to be a member of the Davidson family and

look forward to giving back to the school

and community that means so much to me.

Go Wildcats!

God Bless,

Stephen Curry
Phil. 4:13 |

sececcecnrortsensennastncdh
