THE DAVIDSONIAN WEDNESDAY, Marcu 18, 2009 11

SPORTS

-_ : ts ” oy, :
cee

Wildcat Pulse

MARCH MADNESS:
NIT CENTRAL

Tee

oF
Le.

Men’s Tennis vs. Illinois-Chicago
Women’s Tennis vs. Brown
Mon. @ 2:00, Covington Courts

Davidson’s men’s and women’s
tennis host a pair of nonconfer-
ence opponents at Covington
Courts this week.

Outside the Den

NBA Basketball
Portland TrailBlazers
at Cleveland Cavaliers
Thur. @ 8:00, TNT

LeBron James and the Cleve-
land Cavaliers continue their
quest for the top seed and home
court advantage in the Eastern
Conference when they take on
Brandon Roy and the Portland

Davidson’s path to MSG

Second Round
March 19, 20, 21, 23

San Diego St, (23-9) 1

San Diego St.

Weber St, (21-9)

Kansas St, (21-11)

Tllinois St; (24-9)

South Carolina (21-9)

Davidson

Davidson (26-7)

St. Mary’s (CA) (26-6)

Washington St, (17-15)

CC

inn’s career-long track record of achieving

successful results for his clients has earned

hima recognifion throughout NC and among his
peers in the legal field nationwide. He has been named
to the Best Lawyers In America publication consistently
for the past 23 years and was recently named as one of
the Top Super Lawyers in the state of North Carolina.

Asa former NC Court of Appeals Judge, Jim Fuller is

a widely respected trial lawyer known throughout the
State for this commitment to justice and his exceptional
litigation skills. With 32 years of courtroom experience,
he has dedicated his legal practice to helping people
who have been injured by the negligent or criminal
conduct of others,

Jim and his wife Jean live in Spinnaker Cove, and
attend the Davidson Untied Methodist Church, A
member of the Lions Club, Jim also serves on the
boards of the Ada Jenkins Center, Davidson Lands
Conservancy, and the Davidson Community Players and THE
was recently appointed to the Town Planning Board. ff J nt 0

LAW FIRM
Exceptional Attorneys... Close to Home

APPEALS ¢ BANKRUPTCY « BUSINESS LAW
COLLECTIONS + ESTATE PLAN

the
ersond nny Atfameys

Jim Fuller and “Sandy” Carnegie

Quarterfinals
March 24, 25

Semfinals
Madison Square Garden
March 31

rosser D. “Sandy” Carnegie, has spent almost 30

years representing clients who have suffered

substantial injeries due to another person's negligence
or criminal conduct, always with the client’s best interest
above all else. Sandy is well qualified in other areas of the
law including, contract preparation and review, residential
and commercial closings, land development and acquisition
as Well as zoning, Sandy is licensed to practice before all
state and federal courts in North Carolina and Virginia.

In addition to his many responsibilities as an attorney,
Sandy is dedicated to bis family and to his community.
Sandy, Davidson native, and his wife, Robbie, currently live
in the family homeplace. Sandy and Robbie have two grown
children, Annie and Prossex. Sandy served many years as a
commissioner with the Town of Davidson, has served on
various Towo of Davidson committees, he is a member
Davidson College Presbyterian Church, is a member of
Williams Masonic Lodge #176, AF. & A.M. and in has
coached youth football, basketball and baseball in the
Davidson, Comelius and Mooresville communities.

LITIGATION + PERSONAL ISIURY
REAL ESTATE « WILLS & TRUSS

209 Delburg Street. Suite 203 (in the Historic Davidson Cotton Mill) Davidson, NC 28036 + (704) 892-1699 » www.mcintoshlawfirm.com

Trailblazers Thursday night.

Substantial scholarships, up to full-tuition, are
now being awarded to top applicants for a
new one-year Master's Program in Finance
beginning Fall 2009.

Acquire the expertise you will need to
succeed in the market place of the future.
Leverage a dedicated career specialist and
extensive alumni network in entering the
market.

Build your leadership potential in the co-
curricular program and meet with
distinguished speakers.

For more information, or to apply, visit
www.claremontmckenna.edu/rdsgraduate or
contact us at rdsadmission@cmc.edu.

THE ROBERT Day SCHOOL
CLAREMONT McKENNA COLLEGE

500 E. NINTH STREET, CLAREMONT, CA 91711 TEL: 909-607-3347

