2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Kara JONES
Staff Writer

Decision Davidson, an event intended to
allow admitted prospective students to have
a close encounter with Davidson and many
of its aspects, took place on campus this past
Saturday. 848 students were offered admis-
sion into the Class of 2013, and the majority
are still deciding between their options.

Prospective students who received schol-
arships, or are still competing for awards,
were invited to campus on Thursday and
Friday. Saturday was a full days of events
geared towards students learning more about
the people on campus and opportunities that
Davidson has to offer.

This year’s Decision Davidson did not
change much by way of program, as the
school annually seeks to present a general
overview of the different aspects of being a
student.

The day began with campus tours, and
an introduction by President Ross ’72, SGA
president Meikaela Zwieryznski °10 and
Dean Gruber, Vice President of Admissions
and Financial Aid.

Afterwards, prospective students had the
choice to attend lectures by Dr. Gail Gibson
of the English department on ninth and tenth
century “riddle poems,” Dr. Fuji Lozada in
Anthropology on the changing nature of pol-
itics and Dr. Julio Ramirez in Psychology on
the brain’s ability to function after an injury.
The students also had opportunities to meet
with professors of different departments, en-

4/13/09 01:27 Fire

NEws
dmitted students visit for Decision Davidson

Professor of Biology Jerry F Putnam speaks to prospective students about David-

son’s Pre-Medical program.

joy a delicious lunch on the Chambers lawn
while being serenaded by the Generals, and
explore student organizations at an activi-
ties fair. This year over 80 organizations in-
volved themselves in the program, up from

Chambers

Officer was dispatched to Chambers in reference to a fire alarm. The alarm had been
set off in the mechanical room in the basement. Upon checking that area there was a
strong odor of marijuana coming from inside the room. There were also several beer
cans located inside along with a fire cracker. The officer was informed by one of the
fireman that the students remove the foundation vent and crawl inside. The officer
located the vent and it had been removed from the wall. The officer replaced the vent
and will send the Physical Plant an e-mail to get that fixed. Davidson fire reset the

alarm.

4/16/09 16 :40

Vehicle Accident

Patterson Ct.

Jast year’s 60. :
One of the other special opportunities that
Decision Davidson provides for prospective
students is a panel for students independent
of their parents so that they can hear from
Davidson students by themselves and feel
comfortable asking any sort of question.

ne i goal of the EAC ‘education,

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 2009

In the introduction, they are encouraged
to walk around in their free time and get to
know who Davidson students are by asking
them anything, for instance help with some-
thing, or what they think of the dining ser-
vices, or if they think professors are really
accessible. Davidson has great confidence
in itself, in the place and in the people, as
everyone has been carefully selected and
has also made a conscientious decision to
be here. , Together with the organized group
sessions, they get a very real picture of Da-
vidson and learn how to see themselves as a
student here.

Since this is a program for admitted stu-
dents, the college seeks to have them under-
stand that their message is still the same, that
it is true to what is says it is in pamphlets and
brochures.

These students have been admitted in-
tentionally, and in this critical time they are
weighing their college decision between a
number of excellent institutions to which
they have been admitted.

“Now what we want.them to do is pull
back that curtain and find what it is about
this place that will allow them to achieve the
greatest opportunity,” Dean Gruber said. In
their admissions process, these students tried
to make themselves wanted by Davidson.
Now that Davidson wants them, they are tak-
ing a step back to survey Davidson alongside
their other options.

“We have made the marriage proposal,
and now we are waiting to see if it has been
accepted or not,” Gruber said. “This is an
opportunity to put ourselves in front of them
and let them enter the world of Davidson.”

Change a issue is the de oro AS

Officer was advised of a vehicle accident with property damage that occurred near the
Outpost, 120 Patterson Ct Cir. Reporting officer spoke with a Davidson College em-
ployee who advised around 14:30 he was driving a Davidson College owned golf cart
and attempted to make a right hand turn onto a sidewalk just past the Outpost. As he
was turning, a silver Volvo tried to pass him on the right side of the road. The employ-
ee advised he spoke with the female driver; neither vehicle had any visible damage so
they both drivers decided to leave scene. The employee stated that later that afternoon
he noticed that the golf cart was not steering properly. Reporting officer inspected the
golf cart and it appears that the right front tire is now turned inwards.

campus. T |
mittee works cel) ‘with Patterson Court

4/17/09 23:55 Disturbance Library
Officer received a phone call in reference to people running inside Little Library.
Upon arrival at the library, the officer was met by another officer. Both officers can-
vassed the library, finding a large group of Davidson College students on the second
floor. All students were escorted to the main floor.

Upon getting the students grouped together downstairs, the was able to find out that
the students were playing a game called Mafia which was described as a live action
game of Clue. The officer was advised that someone stayed inside the library until the
employees left and allowed the other students to enter after hours. All students were
cooperative when confronted by the officers.

4/16/09 15:39 Suspicious Person WDAV
Officer was advised of a suspicious person near WDAV Radio Station, 423 N Main St.
Upon arrival, reporting officer searched the area but were unable to locate the indi-
vidual. The suspect was described as a man in his mid sixties to early seventies with

a scruffy face wearing a green jacket and green hat. The man walked into the WDAV
Radio Station and asked to speak with Davidson College employee. He advised he
was a donor to Davidson College and was just visiting. k
Davidson College employee received a voice message just before this incident oc-
curred on her campus phone from a man who advised his name. In the voice message,
he left a contact number. He advised in conversation that he was from the Virginia
area and now lives in the mountains of North Carolina.The officer contacted him on
the above phone number and explained not to come around the Campus or the WDAV te
Radio Station.

