10 Te DavipsoniAN

ae ~<a

’Cats end losing streak

JouN MORGAN
Staff Writer

After enduring a three-game road trip to
open the season, the women’s soccer squad
returned home this weekend for competition
against Villanova and Francis Marion. The
teams netted 10 goals on the weekend, with
one lopsided loss and one equally lopsided
win for the Wildcats.

Friday night’s action at Alumni Stadium
witnessed Davidson taking on the Villanova
Wildcats. In the first ever meeting between
these two programs, the visiting squad from
Pennsylvania unleashed a brief offensive
fury from which the home team couldn’t re-
bound.

For the first 20 minutes or so, the game.
shifted back and forth inside the lines, sug-
gesting an even match between the blue and
white jerseys. If anything, the ’Cats con-
trolled the flow of the game. Following a
Villanova corner in minute 22, however, a
scramble in Davidson’s box led to the visit-
ing Wildcats’ first goal of the game.

Five chaotic minutes later and the visiting
team had extended that lead to 3-0. Each goal
provided a distinct challenge for the David-
son defense, ranging from goalpost deflec-
tions to long crosses across the box. It was a
prime exercise, if nothing else, for the variety
of situations the team will face heading into

Ma oS ~

, SPORTS

conference play in three weeks.

Even during those frantic minutes in
the first half, the Wildcat offense frequently
struck at Villanova’s back line, sending a
slew of shots on goal. But despite the repeat-
ed efforts of Allison Drutchas *11, Blakely
Low ’10 and Courtney Hart ’10, the attempts
narrowly missed grazing the back of the net.

The second half started off as evenly as
the first, while Villanova refused to budge to
the Davidson advances. Fifteen minutes in,
another Villanova goal more or less put the
game away at 4-0. In the midst of the scat-
tered and sporadic gameplay, Jessie Baxa’s
’12 solid four saves in goal prevented a more
lopsided score.

The home team wasn’t quite through.
Shifting substitutions in and out throughout
the half, the team finally let its veteran star
work her magic in the match’s closing min-
utes. After a loose ball reached the Villanova
end of the field, Kyri Bye-Nagel 10 took a
rip from the corner of the box, putting David-
son on the board.

Sunday’s game against Francis Marion
began slowly, as the ’Cats were still rebuild-
ing their composure from Friday’s loss. The
first 44 minutes saw an empty scoreboard,
though the home team steadily improved its
offensive possession in front of the support-
ive Alumni Stadium crowd. Veteran attack-
ers Bye-Nagel, Low, Drutchas and Katharine

Laco ’10 pelted Francis Marion with shots on
goal.

Eventually, the Patriots from Florence,
SC, gave in to the continuous assault. The
final push would come from a rookie ren-
egade. As a Davidson lob sailed high into
the Francis Marion box, several defenders
jumped for a header. Rachael Newmister ’13
thwarted their attempts and sent the ball into
the back the net for a 1-0 Davidson lead.

For the first time in three games, the ’Cats
rallied in the halftime locker room with all
the game’s momentum behind them. From
Newmister’s first collegiate goal, the squad
propelled itself into a second half offensive
fury.

Drutchas tallied her first career goal just
a minute and a half into the period off a free
kick from just outside the box. Her corners
and set balls provided the Wildcats a danger-
ous threat on offense that played to their ad-
vantage for the rest of the game.

Finding the net for the third Davidson
score of the afternoon, Low shook her de-
fender right in front of the goal and wrapped
a volley past the near post. Less than seven
minutes after Low’s performance, another
freshman etched her name into the scoring
column. Rachel Barnett ’13 earned her first
NCAA score, releasing a laser from 25 yards
out.

In the first four instances, Wildcat scor-

Oregon makes right call on punch

MIKE FRONGELLO
Sports Section Editor

The University of Oregon football team
entered the 2009 season with a preseason na-
tional ranking and national title aspirations.
Ducks’ star running back LaGarrette Blount
fostered Heisman and NFL dreams of his
own. In Thursday’s season-opening 19-8 loss
at No. 14 Boise State, all of those dreams
were shockingly crushed. Blount ran eight
times for a loss of five yards, but it was his
actions after the game that proved to be far
worse than his ugly rushing performance.

During the postgame handshake at mid-
field, Blount was tapped on the shoulder pad
by celebrating Boise State defensive end
Byron Hout. Before Boise State head coach
Chris Peterson could pull! his taunting player
away, Blount landed a right hook to Hout’s
jaw.

Had Blount’s unsportsmanlike display
stopped there, I may not be writing this ar-
ticle. Unfortunately for Blount, he was did
not seize control of his emotions after the
initial punch. As teammates and coaches at-
tempted to restrain him, Blount began fight-
ing his own team, including hitting two of his
own teammates in the facemask. Just when it
seemed that he was finally restrained, Blount
began bickering with the Boise State fans as
he exited the field. Police had to restrain the
senior running back from the heckling fans,

fal 2

and he finally made his way to the visiting
locker room.

To his credit, immediately following the
game, Blount did apologize for his actions
during an interview with reporters. “It was
just something that I shouldn’t have done. I
lost my head... I couldn’t have envisioned
anything worse than this right here,” Blount
told reporters after the game.

Unfortunately for Blount, it did get worse
on Friday when Oregon head coach Chip
Kelly suspended his star running back for the
entire 2009 season. It was obviously a very
difficult decision for the first-year coach, but
one that needed to be made. Some will con-
sider the penalty too harsh. Some will con-
sider the penalty too light and believe Blount
should no longer be a member of the Oregon
football team. As the Oregon President and
Athletic Director pointed out, Blount’s ac-
tions were the kind that cannot be condoned,
but ultimately a stern, yet fair punishment
was reached.

Now, Oregon will be without one of
their best players for the rest of the season,
making their goal of a Pac-10 conference
championship that much more difficult. But
all is not lost for Blount who still has ample
opportunity to redeem himself. Rather than
dismiss Blount from the team, Kelly merely
suspended which means Blount will still be
on scholarship and still be able to practice
with the team.

Football Field Hockey Men’s Soccer

(0-1) (2-2) (1-0)

Results: Results: Results:

9/5 @ #11 Elon LO-56 9/4 @ Georgetown W 1-0 (OT) 9/5 vs. USC-Upstate W 3-2
9/5 vs. Cornell L 1-3 (OT)
9/8 vs. #4 UNC
Next Up:
Next Up: Next Up: Davidson adidas Classic

9/12 vs. Lenoir-Rhyne

Notes: Justin Williams ’11 led
the Wildcat offense with 132
all-purpose yards in the loss at
Elon.

9/12 vs. Indiana

9/11 vs. UNC-Asheville
9/13 vs. Coastal Carolina

Notes: Annie Evans’ ’13 first
career goal was the difference
in the ’Cats’ overtime road vic-
tory over Georgetown.

Notes: Preseason All-SoCon
selection Alex Caskey ’11
recorded his first goal of the
season in the 3-2 victory over
USC-Upstate.

Notes: Rachel Barnett ’13 and

in the Wildcats’ 5-0 win over

The political science major should make
this most of this opportunity by completing
his degree and helping his team get better in
practice every day. Blount will most likely
have a long way to go in repairing his im-
age with his teammates and NFL scouts.
Experts say Blount entered the season as a
2™ or 3 round NFL draft prospect, but after
Thursday’s incident he is no longer a draft-
able prospect.

Blount may still have a shot at making an
NFL roster as an undrafted free agent next
fall, but much of that will depend on how
much he grows as a person in the next year.
With his NFL prospects appearing dim, it’s
more important than ever that Blount earn a
college degree to prepare himself for a life
without football.

It is sad to see a young man throw so
much away with one foolish act, but Blount
still has everything ahead of him. Being
forced to watch his team play without him
this season will undoubtedly be difficult, but
hopefully this situation will have a lasting ef-
fect on him. By allowing him to retain his
scholarship, Coach Kelly and Oregon have
given Blount a chance to redeem himself.
I hope Blount learns from his mistake, and
one day I hope to see him on an NFL football
field, but at the very least he'll have a college
degree to fall back on if he makes the most of
this opportunity.

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2009

with five-goal outburst against FMU-

ers took matters into their own hands with
unassisted performances. But thanks to the
adept coordination of Newmister and Callan
Elswick ’11, Davidson put together a team
effort for the fifth and final goal of the game.
Elswick received a through ball from the
freshman inside the box that she deftly ma-
neuvered into the near side of the net.

The ’Cats dominated the record books
for this match. The squad more than tripled
the Patriot shot total, 27-7, with Davidson
providing two-thirds of that tally in its sec-
ond half barrage. Nearly every player on the
home team sent one shot toward the net, in-
cluding almost all of the relief players. For a
team that struggled through a long road trip
and tough home opener, this game gracefully
capped off the weekend.

Of course, credit must be allotted to the
defensive ferocity of the Wildcats, who post-
ed their first shutout of the season. Between
the pipes, Loring Ward ’10 recorded her first
shutout of the season. With support from se-
niors and freshmen alike, the team spread out
its array of talents. °

This week, the squad hosts local rival
UNC-Charlotte in Alumni Stadium at 7 p.m.
on Thursday, September 10. The ’Cats then
embark on a five-game road trip, with a Sun-
day game at High Point leading into the final
stretch of the pre-conference schedule.

Callan Elswick ’11 knotched her first
goal of the season in the Wildcats’ 5-0
rout of Francis Marion on Sunday. Els-
wick was one of five different wildcats
to score in the game.

9/13 @ High Point

9/11 vs. UNCW

Women’s Soccer Volleyball Men’s and Women’s
(2-3) (2-5) Cross Country
Results: Results: Results:
9/4 vs. Villanova L 1-4 9/5 @ High Point W 3-0 :
9/6 vs. Francis Marion W 5-0 9/5 vs. Marshall L 1-3 9/5 Bye Opener at USC Upstate
9/6 vs. WSSU W 3-0 ene is
Women- 2nd
Next Up: Next Up: .
9/10 vs. Charlotte Wildcat Classic Next Up:

9/19 Winthrop Invitational

9/12 vs. Radford

Rachael Newmister ’13 each
scored their first career goals

Francis Marion.

9/12 vs. Canisius

Notes: After opening with two
road tournaments, the ’Cats play
three home games this weekend.

Notes: After their impressive
showing at the Eye Opener the
’Cats have a week off to prepare
for the Winthrop Invitational.
