4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

school students with MLK-

News

oe phot
spired art

a” Mine De.

With just eight weeks remaining in his
term, Student Government Association
(SGA) President Davis Greene ’09 used last
Thursday’s SGA meeting to outline his agen-
da for 2009: possible changes to the campus
TV network, reforms of the chartering pro-
cess for campus organizations, and a series
of student forums related to a comprehensive
curriculum review.

The CAT-TV system currently consists of
56 channels. The package allows for some
channels to be swapped for others: alterna-
tives to the current channels include Food
Network, Oxygen, Military and Country Mu-
sic Television.

In the next few weeks, an e-mail survey
will be conducting asking students about
their satisfaction with the current channel se-
lection, and their preferences for which chan-
nels (if any) to drop and which to add.

The charter reform effort will be led by
Greene and SGA Senator Emily Cannon ’09.
Greene felt there was a need to reform the
process after noticing that 56 organizations
were currently chartered and there was a
rising trend. Such growth would dilute the
funds available to organizations and leave
them without enough resources to meet their
goals.

Currently, students need only meet three
requirements to receive a charter: they must
have an active membership, be registered
with the Director of Student Activities, and
have a written statement of purpose. Charters
are never renewed, and once an organization
has a charter it can begin receiving funding
from the Activities Tax Council.

Some students already had suggestions
about the process. Senator Severin Tucker 09
suggested that the SGA taking into account
the ratio of dollars spent to active members
of a given organization. Senator Kate Stern-
stein ’09 expressed concerned about using
that metric to evaluate organizations— such
as the equestrian club—that have a high cost
per student but add significantly to student
life at the college.

The student curriculum review forums

Charter reform explored

will be a joint effort between the SGA and
J.T. Kimbrough Professor of Mathematics
John Swallow. Swallow is currently heading
a comprehensive curriculum review under
the broader effort of the college’s Strategic
Assessment.

The review is exploring a wide range of
topics including distribution requirements,
as well as evaluating the success and future
of team taught and interdisciplinary courses.
Those recommendations may shape future
decisions for faculty hires and capital proj-
ects.

The SGA is discussing a format for the
forums. Senator Meikaela Zwieryznski ’10
suggested that a series of forums be hosted
with varying themes, with the intention of
generating feedback from multiple groups.

A new campus publication was also an-
nounced at the meeting. Athletic Policy
Committee chair Stephen Pierce °10 un-
veiled a new student newspaper that would
be distributed exclusively at Davidson home
basketball. games.

The currently-unnamed publication will
consist of one to two articles, one full-page
ad, information on the Wildcats’ progress
and recommended chants—including such
things as “the names of opposing players’
girlfriends,” according to Pierce. The first
issue will debut at Wednesday’s game.

The topic of basketball prompted a sug-
gestion from Greene. At earlier basketball
games in the season, he had noticed that
cheering and chants were not coordinated
across the audience. Greene suggested creat-
ing the position of cheer coordinator in order
to prevent this problem from recurring.

The SGA has also formed a committee in
response to the worsening economic situation
and its impact on the college. The Economic
Situation Committee will be chaired by Rich-
mond Blake ’09, and the committee’s focus
is to generate student feedback on ways to

cut costs and better inform the student body:

on any changes to college operations. Blake
also pointed out that the college is committed
to maintaining current financial aid packages,
and that the Davidson Trust will remain fi-
nancially solvent, despite significant declines
in the college’s endowment.

Campaigns, from page 1

friends with individuals in the Maine Demo-
cratic Party during the midterms, and they
were influential in my decision to apply for
a summer internship,” said Watson. He re-
placed a woman who was quitting because
of the time commitments and started to work
full time—“Seven days a week starting in
June,” usually working between 12 and 15
hours a day.

“My main motivation was the U.S. Sen-
ate race” in Maine, said Watson, who worked
most specifically for the Tom Allen cam-
paign. “TI really got involved with Tom Al-
len because I knew that he was an intelligent,
compassionate man who is a very skilled
legislator.”

Watson stressed the value of having solid

Democratic candidates all the way down the
ticket. “Obama was a spark, but the rest of
the ticket provided so much substance that
[the voters] could feel confident about the
whole ticket...there was a lot of faith in the
ticket,” he said.

While Watson’s emphasis was on local
races as well as the national race, the Young
Democrats here at Davidson College were
more exclusively focused on the Obama
campaign, said Carella.

The Democrat’s goal was to do “ev-
erything we possibly could” to get Obama
elected; there was much less emphasis on
the local elections, although Carella noted
that other Democratic candidates like Kay
Hagan, N.C.’s new Senator, were included in
the Obama campaign’s canvassing efforts.

Davidson College students were the
main staffers of an Obama campaign office
in Kannapolis, and on the day of the elec-
tion, Obama campaign volunteers, including
Davidson students, “knocked on a thousand
doors and made over a thousand phone calls,”

PATTERSON AWARDS
APPLICATIONS DUE 02701709

The Department of Economics will grant up to a total of $1,200 a year

College (1957-1979) and social activist.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2009

———— & &
said Carella on election night.

While the Young Democrats were very
focused on the campaign results, the College
Republicans had a different sort of goal, said
Mike Jucewicz ’10.

Jucewicz said that the Republican’s goal
was to positively impact the historically neg-
ative image the Republicans had on campus.

The Republicans did sponsor some cam-
paign events and activities. N.C. Republican
Senator Richard Burr came to Davidson,
students canvassed the town with Fountain
Walker and some students went to the local
McCain campaign office off of exit 28. Over-
all, however, the group was much more fo-
cused on the Davidson College community.

“That’s the way we had to be,” said Juce-
witz. The Republicans generally took much
more passive efforts in the campaign. Juce-
wicz said that the group was much more di-
‘alogue-centered, for example the bi-partisan
Political Connection events co-sponsored
by the campus Democrats and Republican.
Jucewicz pointed to the group’s fundraising
efforts for charity on September 11 as an
example of the group’s magnanimous under-
takings.

Both groups are looking toward the fu-
ture, hoping to continue the progress they
have made, although in two different arenas.
Jucewicz wants to “keep the positive mo-
mentum going” here on campus by keeping
“the profile raised on campus...in a positive
way.”

Carella hopes that the Democratic voices
will continue to be heard and supported over
the next four to eight years, hoping that the
efforts this campaign cycle translate into
larger involvement and support for the Dem-
ocratic Party in the future.

Powers, who worked for the McCain
campaign, did not return a request for an in-
terview.

The Ernest Finney Patterson Awards recognize and honor the life of

Ernest Finney Patterson, beloved professor of economics at Davidson

to subsidize formal study, research, field work, or community service

by currently enrolled students at Davidson College that promotes

improving society and bettering the human condition consistent with

the personal ideals of Professor Patterson.

. Application forms are available at

www.davidson.edu/academics/economics/economics.html

and the completed applications are due by

February 1 to Dr. David Martin,

chair of the Department of Economics.

|
