THE DAVIDSONIAN

Connor supports Race for the Cure

CRISTINA BUSTILLO
Staff Writer

According to the American Cancer Soci-
ety, one in eight women will get breast can-
cer at some point in the life, making breast
cancer the second leading cause of death for
women. Around 40,000 American women
will die every year battling breast cancer.

Since 2001 Connor House has been
organizing an annual event, Bosom Bud-
dies, with the purpose of creating aware-
ness about the disease and raising funds for
“Friends for an Earlier Breast Cancer Test.”
Over the past two years, Connor has raised
over $70,000 for this organization.

Last Saturday, in their strive for promot-
ing awareness and finding a cure for breast
cancer, Connor participated in Race for the
Cure in Charlotte, an event organized by the
Susan G. Komen for the Cure foundation,
with around 50 Connor members and 10
freshmen girls participating.

For the second year, Connor House par-
ticipated in the event with the team “Circle
Up,” a social network of friends dedicated
to finding a cure for breast cancer. Circle Up
came together around 10 years ago with the
purpose of giving strength to women who
were battling or had battled the disease.

Circle Up first contacted Connor after
a Circle Up member and Davidson class of
°77 graduate read about Bosom Buddies’
success in the Davidson Journal two years
ago. This year, Circle Up was the biggest
group in the Friends and Family division,
with 359 members, raising $90,000. In total,
Race for the Cure had 14,000 participants
who raised over $1.3 million.

The event began very early for the Con-

News

nor girls, who left Davidson at 5:50 a.m. in
order to get to Charlotte before 7:00 am when
they were to meet the others members of Cir-
cle Up. The 5k race began at 8:00 am. After
the race was over, a very touching ceremony
took place where breast cancer survivors re-
leased a pink balloon for every year they had
survived the disease. The times ranged from
4 days to 54 years.

Connor’s participation in the event was
greatly appreciated by many, including the
leaders of Circle Up, one of the founding

Connor girls finish strong during this year’s Race for the Cure.

members of Connor’s Bosom Buddies, and
even a 2003 Davidson alum who is now her-
self battling with breast cancer.

In addition to this, Friends for an Ear-
lier Breast Cancer Test is naming one of
its research grants in honor of Connor
House and Kappa Kappa Gamma at Cha-
pel Hill, because both organizations raised
in excess of the equivalent of a $40,000
research grant in a year. Friends for an
Earlier Breast Cancer Test has only done
this five other times in its 14 year history.

Novelist Sheri Reynolds visits campus
Davidson graduate presents her work alongside Pro-
fessor Brenda Flanagan’s for annual Davidson Reads

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Last night, author Sheri Reynolds ’89 vis-
ited Davidson to read from her work along-
side Davidson professor Brenda Flanagan
in this year’s annual Davidson Reads event.
Reynolds, who serves as a professor of cre-
ative writing at Old Dominion University, is
the author of six books, including “The Rap-
ture of Canaan,” “The Firefly Cloak” and
“The Sweet In-Between.” Reynolds also met
with several classes on campus to discuss her
work.

Reynolds, like many southern writers,
faces the pressure of fitting into expected ste-
reotypes. She recalled meeting with an agent
after a book draft was rejected and being told
that she should just stick to tobacco farms
and religion. She recalls being frustrated by
the advice but also taking it as a challenge.
“Tt was fire, it was fury that pushed out ‘Rap-
ture of Canaan,’ because I was just so mad,”
she said. “Anger can be very useful.”

When asked about the influence of her
real-life experiences on her novels, Reyn-
olds explained that the relationship is com-
plicated. “I don’t want to write what really
happened,” she said. “I don’t want people in
my business. I don’t want my family mad at
me. I don’t want to get sued.” She also ex-
plained that authors’ reliance on true stories
can be problematic: “You get stuck in the
idea that it’s really happened, so it must be
valid. That’s not true. As soon as you put it
on the page, it’s not the event. It has to be real
to the reader.”

She did credit her childhood for many

of her literary characters, however, citing her
Strict religious upbringing and the different
standards held up for men and women: “The
men were total outlaws, and the women were
holy rollers,” she said.

Reynolds has also published a play,
which she explained was a “translation” proj-
ect from a novel that had stalled. She asked
a friend who was teaching a play-writing
workshop if she could sit in, and “Orabelle’s
Wheelbarrow,” which won the Women Play-
wrights’ Initiative Playwrighting Competi-
tion for 2005, was born.

Reynolds explained that producing the
play was a struggle of its own, with staging
problems demanding significant changes to
the plot and characters that she had not imag-
ined. She recounted that at the first rehearsal,
the director decided that half the play needed
to be cut. “I’m not good at collaborating,”
she said. “I learned that too.”

Reynolds talked extensively about the
struggle the author faces with the forces of
marketing and publishing. Shortly after being
cut from her publisher, Putnam Books, her
novel “The Rapture of Canaan,” was chosen
as a selection for Oprah’s book club. “I just
said, ‘Thank you Jesus,”” she laughed.

A flood of offers came in after the selec-
tion, and a bidding war over Reynolds began.
“They were flying in on airplanes to seduce
me,” she recalled. Putnam offered her 1.5
million dollars to have the manuscript they
had rejected back, but although no other
publisher was willing to pay nearly as much,
Reynolds’ pride and self-respect prevented
her from accepting the offer.

Reynolds was also looking for a professo-

rial job at the time, and she remembers won-
dering whether offers that came after Oprah’s
book club would be genuinely concerned
with her writing: “I would never know if they
wanted me, or if they just wanted Oprah.” So
she accepted a professorship at Old Domin-
ion University, which had offered her a job
before the news broke. “My work is not to
sell books,” she concluded, “though I’ll do
what I can to get them out in the world. My
work is to do my writing.”

‘program ‘also sponsors the Olive Branch

WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2009 3

which Al-Hadeed cae

whom she’ would compete ‘develop t the
best and most forceful argume :

Fall Break Plans?

Contribute to the
Davidsonian’s Fall Break Issue

10/22/09

Send pictures and stories to cawood or
kelilley by 10/18/09

