THE SUPERFICIAL ISSUE

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 7

LOCAL INCOMING
FRESHMAN EXCITED
TO SPEND NEXT
FOUR YEARS IN SAME
TOWN

SEE PAGE 8

FRATERNITY UNSURE
WHAT TO DO WITH
EXTRA BEER

SEE PAGE 3

JUNIOR GIRL TRIES
TO REINVENT HER-
SELF UPON RETURN
FROM ABROAD; No
ONE IS IMPRESSED

SEE PAGE 6

SOPHOMORE
ENVISIONS

BRIGHT FUTURE

IN DAVIDSON
ADMISSIONS OFFICE

PAGE 7

OF THE WEEK

SEARCH:
**SLIM JIM-INDUCED
BLOODLUST”’

Your Davison Honor Section
Editors:
Alex Greening
Raekwon the Chef

Writers:
Peter “PBR” Bruton
Scooter Schreib

Note: The Yow] is a satirical supple-
ment to The Davidsonian. Hence,
nothing in it should be taken as
truth. Word.

Republicans Brine B Back What

Boston, Massachusetts — Voters
and media alike are in a frenzy
after a nude centerfold of U.S.
Senator-Elect Scott Brown recently
surfaced. While the Massachusetts
politician is not shying away from
his past exploits many analysts see
this ploy as a return to earlier Re-
publican campaign tactics.
“Traditionally, Republican can-
didates have flaunted their bodies
in the hopes to win various cam-
paigns. From Taft to Eisenhower,
many of our most famous and suc-
cessful politicians have posed nude
to help bolster popularity. Nothing
says low taxes like ripped abs,”
said Robert Bledsole, a member of
the Woodrow Wilson Institute for ss
Scholars, a think tank in Washing- By the 1940s the tactic was
ton, DC. commonplace; this 1948 campaign
Republicans have long embraced Poster contributed to a blowout win
their dashing good looks in attempts of a number of seats in the House.
to counter the Democrats, using However, with the changing face of
a toned, sexy core as a rebuttal politics and the increasing number
against claims of a lack of scruples. Of female politicians, the “Saucy
“They have taken the Democratic GOP” movement fell out of style.
criticism in stride and the confi- The Neo-conservative movement,
dence they display while baring which put clothes back on all of
themselves is making a huge impact its public figures, blossomed in
on the voting public. It is a brilliant the early 1980s, though extremists

move politically,” Bledsole said. on the far-right still criticized Bob
Dole for keeping his pants on dur-

ing all of his press conferences.

Clearly Brown is making a bold
move and trying to bring back a
sexier, edgier side of American
politics, celebrating the beauty of
the male form and the benefits of
a full-time gym membership. The
selection of Gov. Sarah Palin as
the Republican Vice Presidential
Candidate two years ago was a bold
move, but it didn’t pay off. -

“The female side of it is harder
to control,” Bledsole explained.

Scott Brown: “Do you really
think I have to stoop for some
underage Congressional page
with a body like this?”

William “Ladykiller” H. Taft

Brown represents a revival of a
classic Republican campaign prac-
tice of appearing in risqué photos. “A beautiful woman makes people
The most famous incident in the nervous, and therefore more prone
tradition involved the publication of ‘© taking offense. But think about
Playgirl photos of William Howard Michelangelo’s David— if a dude
Taft, released right before the 1908 dares to let it all dangle, it becomes
election came to a close. While one of the most treasured objects in

women could not vote at the time, the world.”

the photos won over rising gay The Democratic Party has yet to
populations in Southern California, respond to this new, sexy assault.
San Francisco and Massachusetts. / Rumors that Bill Clinton was being
Engravings and Daguerreotypes called out of retirement to “bring

of a scantily-clad Ulysses S. Grant Sexy back” to the left have not been
circulated before his election. confirmed, though an inside source

did confirm that Monica Lewinski
has been hired on as a consultant. A
White House representative also an-
nounced that new wardrobes were
being developed for the Obamas,
with “more muscle shirts for Barack
and some skanky halter tops for
Michelle and the girls.”

The iconic 1948 poster

Not- SO- -wild- -any-
more-cat Reflects
on Crazy Youth

be it's their unique ability to mak
gentlemen both | Young and creepil

that is that special pair of butt-hug
gers never fails to raise heads (ha):

Our Davidson Wildcat, reflect-
ing with the maturity of age, now
considers himself a Mildcat.

The Wildcat Den— In his first

advice to current students. The
wisdom and maturity he now pos-
sesses, he claims, have shown him wrong I was;
the pleasures of a slower, calmer io
routine than the “life in the fast
lane” he led at one of America’s
most notorious party campuses.

The Wildcat, or Mildcat, as he
now prefers to be called, arrived at |
Davidson in 1971, two years before |
women were allowed to enroll.
“Things were pretty crazy before
the chicks got here,” he said. “You
didn’t have to worry as much about
embarrassing yourself, although =|
the midnight raids we took down to :
Queen’s College in Charlotte were
always a good time.”

The Mildcat was enrolled at
Davidson as a student for a decade
before dropping out, but has held |:
various odd jobs around campus
for the past 29 years anyway. His
unbridled enthusiasm and school
spirit made him forever welcome at
Davidson, despite his struggles with
drug and gambling addiction. “I
would steal paper from the Library
printers and sell it to pay my dealer.
I would break into Commons at
night because I couldn’t afford a
meal plan, or I gambled away all
my Bonus Bucks. Those were dark
days.”

The Mildcat says the loving sup-
port of his longtime girlfriend and
now fiancée, Lula Bell Houston,
helped him fight through his addic-
tions and become a stable, produc-
tive member of the Davidson com-
munity.

“Tt’s been great to watch the
school develop as it has,” he said
before looking over his shoulder
and whispering, “I have to say,
though...the best part is, I get older,
but freshmen girls...they just stay
the same age.”

30 these head-turning pants,
| which magically grow from approx:

