PERSPECTIVES

y

the Union: Winter Fest; It was fiteetstinig to say the least, fo
see :the court brought up the hill and under the watchful eye
of the: school administration, During the event, the Union
was split up into three tiers with waning levels of debauchery.
The atrium was reserved for the true. partiers, the types of
people who are on a first name basis with the people who
work at.the Outpost. This floor featured a dance floor and the.
musical styles of Mike Posner and Chiddy Bang, Throughout
the night, the atrium level was filled with. 1 people dancing | ind
setting reminiscent ofa court partys
eThe café. level. of the Union was where-the fo
served. The food was eclectic to say the least. Trays ofkebabs
on : the. same ‘table as “pasta, is something one does not ‘see
‘ ee ten. Regardless of: what was ‘served, the quality was

Sata Davidson ee
of cheap: beer Instead, she

4o create an event that would bing the Davidson community
Koger and

The Davidsonian

Editor-in-Chief
Brett Willis”
Managing Editor
wn Brian Park
a =" News Editors
Kelsey Lilley & Caroline Wood
Perspectives Editors
Bryan Norris & Clint Smith
: Arts & Living Editor
* Jennifer Gambrell
Yow! Editor
Alex Greening
Sports Editors
Mike Frongello & Logan Lewis
Head Copy Editors
Christy Carry & Natasha Rivera
Business & Circulation Managers -
Liz Shevock & Lauren Wright
Online Editor
Elizabeth Watts
Assistant Copy Editors
Joel Fineman & Alex Kowaleski
Photography Staff
Tripp Bartholomew & Bill Giduz

The Davidsonian is published Wednesdays during the academic year
by the students of Davidson College.

Please address alt correspondences to: The Davidsonian, P.O. Box
7182, Davidson, NC 28035-7182.

E-mail Davidsonian@ davidson.edu. Our offices are located in
Room 411 of the Alvarez College Union. Opinions expressed in
articles do not necessarily reflect the views of the Editorial Board
of The Davidsonian. Only the staff editorial represent the views
of The Davidsonian staff. Subscriptions cost $55.00 per year, or $30
per semester. Email Elizabeth Shevock at elshevock @davidson.edu
for advertising inquiries.

Obama 2.0: It’s

On Politics The Democrats were . surely

eo delivered a blow last Tuesday
night in losing their super Senate
majority; however, I concede that
it may be good for our country as
a whole. Without sixty seats in the
Senate, the Democrats must work
in a bi-partisan manner; they can
now champion the post-partisan
movement. While the political
environment in Washington DC
has become overly polarized,
the uneasy feeling that is ripping
through the country remains
centrist by nature. Because both the liberal and conservative
extremes are unpopular with the other half of the dissenting
population, the President now has a chance to re-invent
his message, agenda, and politics to champion the center
majority of the United States. Said another way, President
Obama needs to throw out his first year in office and pioneer
the first three-year Presidency in US history.

The “reset” that we need for the executive branch,
however, must not be confined to goals of the existing policies
on the table. President Obama needs to address the country
tonight and deliver a somber State of the Union Address. The
President needs to re-invigorate the hope and the passion for
progress that he cultivated during the 2008 campaign, laying
out an ambitious yet reasonable roadmap for his second year
in office. I still believe that this President has the capacity to
accomplish a great deal during his first term in office, but,
in order to do so, he needs to live up to the promise of his
campaign. He needs to get his wheels back on the road.

On healthcare, the President needs to let our senators and
representatives know that the bill that they have worked on
to date is old news. Our leaders need to sit down at a table
with him and craft a deal to assist the thirty-five to fifty
million Americans that remain uninsured. Our leaders need
to remember the pressing reasons why they are tackling the
issues that were highest on the “first” agenda of the Obama

need 7
Scott MattHew§}

THE DaviDSONIAN
WEDNESDAY,
January 27, 2010

time for a reset

Administration. The President needs to make sure that the
whole process is featured on a live feed on C-Span, and both
sides need to compromise. That is, after all, the reason why
the two party system has prevailed to this day.

After working in an open session with House and Senate
members of both parties and reaching a deal on healthcare,
the President needs to move on to the other issues that face
our country domestically. For example, the President needs
to make the environment a staple issue of his administration.
The President needs to work with Congressional leaders to
produce a series of tax-cuts and stimulus programs to boost
the transition to alternative energies. He needs to create a blue-
ribbon commission to study the effectiveness of a federal gas
tax and the effectiveness of a cap-and-trade system versus a
carbon tax.

In his re-assessment of our national goals, the President
needs to make deficit reduction a major issue and educate
the American people about the ways that he plans to bring
down the deficit - and ultimately the national debt - over
the next decades. The President needs to comfort citizens
worried about the precarious economic position of the United
States and assure our foreign investors that the American
government has a plan to settle our debts.

I still think that the American people will respond to
action, to constant steps forward by our leaders. Our leaders
need to placate frustrated citizens, cultivate patriotism and
hope for the future, spur lagging markets and ultimately make
people feel that the United States is finally headed in the righ
direction. It’s time for a reset. It’s time to be realistic and it’s
time for the President of the United States to start publically
holding legislators to their promises to work together. This
President needs to treat his next three years in office as the
beginning of a new term. He needs to draw from the bes!
ideas of all political ideologies and govern representing the
viewpoints of all of the people rather than just those of hi:
own party. It’s time for Obama 2.0.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich
CT. Contact him at samatthews @davidson.edu.

ANG compromises in War on Terror

are currently _ being
whitewashed Every time an attack
occurs our government puts another
coat of paint over the truth. We
are plagued not by an inability to
connect the dots, but an inability
to see the biggest dot of all. The
government believes they are trying
to find needles in a haystack. We
would be better off if they simply
found the haystack.

The government acts as if
everyone has the same likelihood
of blowing up a plane. Thus my 18
year old sister and 78 year old grandmother face pat downs
and bag searches. The government acts as if poverty or lack
of education leads to terrorism, so it spends billions on aid
and nation building. Finally, the government ignores radical

sin cera

' Islam as acause. Want a link between Mutallab and terrorism?

Want a link between Ramzi Mohammed and terrorism? Want
a link between Hasan and terrorism? The military does, but
cannot seem to find one without using jihad or Muslim.
The Department of Defense report on the jihad massacre
at Fort Hood lacks such terms as “jihad,” “Muslim,” and
“Islam.” The report recommends the military advances its
ability to recognize and survey “potential threats,” and yet
it is unwilling to identify the Islamic doctrine, which urged
Hassan to shoot up an unarmed military base.

In his Christmas Day bombing speech, President Obama
admirably announced to the world that the United States is at
war. However, couple this with the decision to allow Khalid
Sheik Mohammed access to a New York City civilian trial and
to Mirandize Mutallab, and we find that Obama’s declaration
of war turns out to be just like the rest of him: pure rhetoric
and hype. Except for our soldiers and their families, this
country hardly seems to be at war. Mutallab’s one-step-from-
successful-bomb plot proved this. How is it that once again
our counterterrorism agencies were caught off-guard?

President Obama declared the attempted bombing “was
not the fault of a single individual or organization, but rather
a systemic failure across organizations and agencies.” In
other words, since everyone is at fault, no one is at fault. In
reality, individuals and organizations did fail. Just because
Mutallab outwitted the CIA, does not mean the chaps at the

CIA should not be run out of town. The same goes for th
National Counterterrorism Center, State Department, anc
Homeland Security. Instead, no one lost a job... just lik
9/11.

The government’s failures ‘did not end at the plane
In the aftermath, no one knew who was in charge. Ove
the past weeks, FBI director Robert Mueller, Nationa
Counterterrorism Center director Michael Leiter, Director o
National Intelligence Dennis Blair, and Homeland Securit
Secretary Janet Napolitano have all testified before Congress
All have said the same thing: it was not their decision t
Mirandize Mutallab but that of the agents on the grounc
However, do not blame the agents; there simply are n
procedures in place for this sort of event. Exactly what ha
the United States been doing in the years since 9/11? How d
we lack any sort of protocol and procedure?

In the aftermath of an attack inside the United States, th
plan should be clear-cut and simple. First, any and all attacker
should be immediately transferred to Guantanamo Bay c
wherever the counterterrorism agencies deem maximur
security. There, the terrorists should be interrogated an
debriefed immediately. The focus should not be to build
case for the federal courts but rather to gain more informatiot
Captured detainees should not be Mirandized or give
counsel. They should be broken and forced to divulge an
and all knowledge pertinent to United States counterterroris!
activities.

Regardless of whether or not this knowledge is of a futu
attack or the inner workings of terrorist networks and cell
we need it. Can our beloved satellite imaging do this? N
Thus, unless we have turned one of bin Laden’s inner circl
the only way to get such knowledge is through the captur
interrogation, and debriefing of terrorists. As of late, we ai
only reacting to attacks and reacting poorly. Interrogatic
and debriefing allows counterterrorism agencies the chanc
to preempt attacks and avoid the entire notion of flamir
underpants at 35,000 feet.

President Obama is correct: The United States of Americ
is at war. The question remains, however, are we in it to w
or will we slowly compromise our way to a then-inevitab
defeat?

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Lou
MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu.
