THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

Where are America’s war heroes?

On January, 26 1945, the soldiers
of the United States Army’s B
Company, 15th Regiment of the
3rd Infantry Division were holding
a position near Holtzwihr, France
in two feet of snow and fourteen
degree temperatures. The company
(especially the officers) had been
decimated by previous days fighting
and was currently at less than half
strength. Thus, the leadership fell
Fi - squarely on the nineteen year-old
shoulders of 2nd Lt. Audie Murphy.
The Texan, at age fifteen, tried to
enlist in the military just after Pearl Harbor, but was rejected
on account of his age. At sixteen his sister helped him forge his
date of birth and the Army accepted his enlistment. Though
only nineteen, Murphy had seen heavy action throughout
Italy and France and was a seasoned veteran on January 26.
Just miles from the German border, the American company
was attacked by six tanks and a 250-strong fofce of elite
German infantry from the ever-so-cooly named Mountain

Hunter Division. They soon found Mountains preferable to’

Texans. Murphy ordered ‘his outnumbered and outgurined
company back to a tree line while he, in a forward post, called
in artillery support. When the officer on the end of the call
inquired how close the Germans were to his position, Murphy
brazenly replied, “If you just hold the phone a minute, I’ll let
you talk to one of the bastards.”

As the enemy tanks began to rumble past his position,
Murphy retreated and climbed on top of a burning tank
destroyer that had been ditched by its American crew. Even
though he had been shot in the leg, he continued to pick off
Germans with a .50 cal. machine gun. For the next hour he
single-handedly held the enemy back, at some points only by
ten yards. Finally out of ammunition, he crawled back to his
troops, refused medical treatment, re-organized the company,

field. Eight months later, he was awarded the Congressional
Medal of Honor for his service above and beyond the call of
duty.

For Audie Murphy, above and beyond was his call of duty.
His actions on January 26th were not an isolated incident. He
won the Bronze star for sneaking up on a tank and dropping
grenades down the hatch. He won the Distinguished Service
Cross for charging up a hill to an entrenched German machine
gun position, eliminating that position and then, after his best
friend is killed, goes on a rampage and wipes out several
more enemy nests.

After spending two weeks in a hospital for shrapnel
wounds, Murphy returns to his company. Within three days,
he earns two Silver Stars. Murphy won every available
American medal for bravery, not to mention four French
awards and one Belgian honor. At nineteen, Audie Murphy
was already more hero than man (or in his case, teenager).

We are roughly 65 years past Audie Murphy’s heroics.
During his time, his name and the names of Doolittle,
Boyington, Bradley, Patton, MacArthur, and Nimitz meant
something to this country. What names mean something to
our country today? During his time, the United States had
a President willing and meaning to say “As Commander-in-
Chief of the Army and Navy I have directed that all measures
be taken for our defense, that always will our whole nation
remember the character of the onslaught against us. No
matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated
invasion, the American people, in their righteous might, will
win through to absolute victory... Hostilities exist. There is
no blinking at the fact that our people, our territory and our
interests are in grave danger. With confidence in our armed
forces, with the unbounding determination of our people,
we will gain the inevitable triumph. So help us God.” Is this
the attitude we witness today? Is this the action we witness
today?

Bobby DesPain ’11 is a biology major from St. Louis,

led the counter-attack and forced the Germans to cede the i i avi edu.

The pendulum of

Ros O’ DONNELL
Guest Columnist
Case One: A sovereign nation assists tribal elders in
their efforts to expel foreign invaders from one of the most
uninhabitable countries on earth. This nation provides
significant logistical support and military ammunitions to aid
the tribal “freedom fighters” as part of their own proxy war
against the foreign aggressor. As casualties mount and the
freedom fighters’ resolve stands firm, the foreign invaders
cut their losses and flee back over their own border. Years
go by and this desolate country quickly slips back into the
irrelevant oblivion of the nation’s foreign affairs. Hardened by
thousands of year of war against foreign armies, ravaged by a
booming drug trade and increasingly powerful tribal warlords
and Godforsaken by its economic destitution, mountainous
landscape and lack of infrastructure, this country quickly
becomes a safe haven for terrorists.

Terrorists use this country as a training ground and.

launch point for the deadliest terrorist attack in human
history against the sovereign nation, who once helped expel
foreign aggressors. The sovereign nation once again takes
an active role in the isolated country: overthrowing the
country’s repressive regime and initiating special operations
to eliminate terrorist threats within the region. Years go
by and once again the country slips back into to irrelevant
oblivion. The ousted repressive regime regains its foothold
and makes inroads towards provincial control and terrorists
once again exploit the country as a safe haven. For the third
time, the sovereign nation dispatches significant resources to
this desolate country.

Case Two: An upstart automobile company revolutionizes
the manufacturing industry by incorporating the assembly line
into its production. Over the subsequent decades, the company
grows at a prodigious rate, becoming synonymous with name
brands like Coca-Cola and US Steel. As the company’s
empire expands, other foreign automobile companies come
to their headquarters to study their business plan and world-
renowned manufacturing assembly lines in order to emulate
their success. Decades go by with year after year of financial
success, but its workforce grows along with the strength of its
union and the size of its compensation packages. Laden with
bourgeoning costs stemming from an untenable long-term
business plan and losing revenue from foreign competition in
the marketplace, the company surrenders its once dominant
perch in the automobile industry. After years of bottom lines
marked by red ink and a brain drain of innovative vehicles, the
company faces the imminent risk of bankruptcy. Confronted
with the harsh reality of reform-or-die, the company changes
leadership and makes several bold decisions to stave off

MO. Contact him at bodespain@davidson.edu

American politics

bankruptcy. For the first time in years, the company posts a
profit.

Case Three: A political party sweeps the election cycle,
winning the presidency and picking up seats in both the House
and the Senate. Having garnered a super majority in both
chambers, the party is poised to pass health care legislation
that they’ve been clamoring over for more than four decades.
Months are spent deliberating and debating; Senators and
Congressmen spend day and night slaving over a single issue.
While unemployment rises to double digits, health care stays
at the forefront of the legislative calendar. Job creation and
stagnant wages stay on the backburner. Just as the House and
Senate have passed the bill and the final deals are being cut
to ensure finalization in time for the president’s State of the
Union speech, the party stumbles over the final hurdle in their
way: the special election in Massachusetts. The party stands
humbled and embarrassed. The following morning after the
special election, the party awakes from its soporific slumber:
jobs are now priority number one.

The human psyche is like a pendulum swinging back and
forth as we confront the challenges of the hour. But too often,
the swing of the pendulum dictates our policy. For we focus
not on the ball swinging towards us, but the force upon which
the ball is being sent. And as we move from one issue to the
next, our eyes focus solely on a single ball casting all others
deep into the periphery. It’s our inability to juggle multiple
balls and gauge the actual speed at which they’re being sent
that shake the foundation of long term strategic planning and
prudent judgment on the macro and micro levels. As you’ve
determined by now, the three sample cases were America’s
intervention in Afghanistan, the rise and near fall of Ford
Automobiles and the Democrats failure to enact health care
legislation in 2009.

In Afghanistan, we had to be reminded twice that our
commitment to National Security runs through the Khyber
Pass. Ford had to be brought to a knee by the companies
it once inspired in order to set out on the path to fiscal
responsibility and the Democrats had to lose Kennedy’s seat
to discover priority number one. All three instances showcase
where success early on led to stagnation or oversight at a later
date, only to be once again resurrected in dire circumstances.
These cases highlight that the solution lies in not in reactionary
policy but in taking a broader perspective of the balls in play
and placing an emphasis on the clarity and continuity of our
mission. Now, the balls have once again been reshuffled. And,
as we focus upon job growth, upcoming midterm elections
and a mounting deficit, we must remember the pendulum is
always swinging.

Rob O'Donnell ’10 is a Classics major from Chevy Chase,
MD. Contact him at roodonnell @davidson.edu.

9

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

single~ ‘calendar year: is; only 's “Ranking ‘Barcelona’
_ accomplishment-in, history i is difficult, and to call this 8
_ the best of. all time is:a difficult claim to make
There will always be those that swear the Real Madri
/ squad of the’60s that won 6 straight European crowns, or
_ the Scoftish team Celtic of 1964 that won 4/trophies in,
: ‘single: season, is the best side of all time. Enter Mancheste.
nited, Ajax or PSV Eindhoven into the debate (all three -
sides took home the European, the Domestic League and” x

“the Domestic. Tournament..Crowns in one. “season),. an
_ one has an argument that could last until the end of time
‘ - However, one would have-a tough time not crowning the:
2009 Barcelona squad as the best team of all time because.’
f how the team achieved succe $
Bareelona’s accomplishments are unique because thi
ad won by ‘playing soccer with such grace. that th
ould rival the brilliance of a Mozart symphony, In a da:
when Physical brutishness and rigid Gefensive discipline’

en of the wey that Gite made up Barcelona’
arting line-up: were players. molded i in the club’s “world.
‘ : z

cand ability,: ‘Sure, the Yankees can do it in baseball, bu
“soccer i is an ‘entirely ‘different. ‘animal when taking int
account that eleyen: big egos need to be: set aside for 9
on inuous minutes in order to achieve a common goa
, should also mention that Barcelona’s coach. was. i
is first season with the team after growing up in the youth. :
ystem and playing for the team for several seasons, Pep:
Guardiola was coach of the Barcelona B team before Jo.
Laporta decided to take-what seemed to be an immense,
isk: and hand over: the xeins.:The team’s first official.
match ‘was a defeat to Numancia at home in front 0
6,000 demanding fans, and it looked like the season w:
estined to be-a disaster. Barcelona’ ‘compounded the
difficult position by tying the next match: Nobody in the:
“crowd. that. day” could have predicted that. Barcelona, at
he end of Décember, would have: the - Spanish La Li
Copa Del Rey, UEFA Champions League, Spanish Super:

thrashing of Real Madrid, Andres Iniesta’ sremarkable*
_goal in London in stoppage time. {a goal that booked:
arcelona’s ticket. to Rome where they saw’ off heavy:
avorite Chelsea in typical Barcelona fashion) and Lionel:
Messi’s game winning goal in overtime in the Club World” :
Cup Final. After the whistle in the United Arab Emirates,

_ Guardiola just stood in the middle of the field surrounded”

“by jubilant players and started sobbing, Finally the man,
_ who led Barcelona through battle after battle was able toy
_take-a break from his usual calm demeanor and let tears «
:, of joy stream down his tired face. For as long as humanity”
~has the privilege of watching the beautiful game, no team,,
_ will ever outdo Barcelona’s 2009 season. The best any®
_ another side can do is to equal! Barcelona’s record. :

uccess this season, but consider the point that the team is.,

_ undefeated i in the league: No one can argue the squad has -

