THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

State of the Union chance for change

___—CO ROBO DONNELE
Guest Columnist

As President Obama prepares for his first State of the
Union, questions abound about the nation’s path forward.
From healthcare to double-digit unemployment, there is no
set course on how the country will deal with its most pressing
issues. In the wake of Sen. Brown’s come from behind
victory over the anemic Coakley campaign, seismic shocks
have been sent through the political landscape in Washington

~ D.C. Take heart. There is a way forward. A light stands at the
end of the tunnel. If Democrats can retool their message and
tighten up their belts, they will soften congressional losses in
the midterm elections and enact the agenda they were elected
for in 2008.

From a messaging standpoint, it’s clear the economy
has to take the driver’s seat. Spending too much time in the
public forum debating how best to enact healthcare will only
reaffirm voters’ beliefs that the administration is not in touch
with the core concerns of the middle class: stagnant wages,
high unemployment and a rising deficit. Now, I know how
tempting it is to push forward with healthcare and pass the
legislation that we’ ve spent nine months slaving over but, as
elected representatives of the people, that would be an assault
on their intelligence.

While rising premiums are a strain on the American
family and our inability to bend the healthcare cost curve
may forsake our long-term GDP, the American people are
more worried about their next paycheck and how they are
going to pay their mortgages this month. Until we stabilize
the middle class and get people back to work, there should
be no other priority. You can’t solve issues, like healthcare,
that have plagued the American political landscape since LBJ
before you address the economic plight of our middle class.

‘From a political standpoint, the Democratic Party needs to
own its agenda. No more blaming former President Bush, no
more days spent admonishing deregulation and Greenspan’s
misguided Age of (future) Turbulence. The path to legislative
and electoral success rests upon the shoulders of our current

administration and congressional leaders. Accepting anything
less would be political suicide.

With an eye towards the midterm elections, it’s certainly
going to be a bumpy election year for Democrats. Real Clear
Politics analysts have projected the Republicans have a | in
3 chance to take back the House and a 1 in 30 chance to take
back the Senate. Democratic casualties will certainly be high,
but there is the opportunity of creating a more bipartisan
Congress when significant Republican support will be needed
to pass any major initiative.

With regards to the 2010 legislative calendar, it would
behoove Democrats to reach out to their Republican
counterparts to help pare back the healthcare bill and to
start getting the ball rolling on financial reform. (Side note
for the econ majors out there: taking hundreds of billions of
dollars in government funds to salvage the financial sector
and expecting to wake up to the same financial landscape as
before the crisis sounds pretty unreasonable to the millions
of Americans who aren’t making six, seven and eight
figure bonuses as part of their executive pay compensation
packages.) In 2008, Democrats, most notably our President,
were elected to their positions on a post-partisan platform that
sought to bridge the divide between the two parties. They have
admittedly fallen short of the change we thought possible just
over a year ago. While I’m aware that Republicans have made
the political calculation that by saying “no” their electoral
chances increase, token engagement in 2010 will only further
the narrative of arrogance within the Democratic party.

President Obama must search for the right words to
bestow upon the American public in his State of the Union
address because his domestic agenda. hinges upon restoring
the American public’s confidence in: Democrat’s ability to
solve the economic crisis and resolve the pressing issues of
the moment. The stakes cannot be higher, and the President
must find the words to inspire and shape a year that hopefully
ends better than it began. :

Rob O’Donnell ’10 is a Classics major from PLACE,
MD. Contact him at roodonnell @davidson.edu.

‘The future of an open internet at risk

Bryan Norris
Perspectives Editor

The Davidsonian’s Perspectives section has run countless
pieces on American politics. From arguments against recent
health care legislation to examinations of our two-party
system, Davidson students have shown a clear interest in
keeping abreast of major national concerns. Their articles are
keenly attuned to the “front-line” issues that grace headlines
and TV news tickers around the country. However, despite our
student body’s desire to be completely knowledgeable about
nearly everything, there are significant gaps in the political
discussion: ugly little legislative battles borne solely of the
incredible technological developments of the 21 century.

I’m speaking, of course, of net-neutrality and other
similarly ignored conflagrations where the internet and
government regulation intersect, with institutions like the
free market, the two-party system, and our own basic
understanding of political theory and personal liberty. I'd
like to bring the concept of net-neutrality up for examination,
and I hope that my words can convince you that the Internet
Freedom Preservation Aet of 2009 (H.R. 3458) deserves
greater attention.

If you are reading this, chances are you are unfamiliar with
net-neutrality, and I’d bet my tuition that most of you have
never read H.R. 3458, let alone heard of it. With that in mind,
here is a crash-course on the legislation and its underlying
principles. Net-neutrality, if examined at a fundamental level,
seeks to keep the internet a completely open environment for
web-surfers and websites alike. The train of thought goes that
if someone purchases access to the internet, then that person
should have equal access to all websites (content providers),
be they Amazon.com or your small, highly-selective liberal
arts college’s homepage.

This basic premise is difficult to argue against, and yet,
some internet service providers (ISPs) like Comcast or Time
Warner Cable are lobbying against net-neutrality. These ISPs
want to offer two tiers to the internet’s content providers. In
theory, major websites like Google or YouTube would pay
Time Warner Cable or AT&T to provide reliable, speedy
access to their webpage for visitors looking for “Davidson
University” or clips of Stephen Curry’s latest highlight reel.
Meanwhile, the everyday blogger, who is unable to pay for
the first tier, would be relegated to a low-speed, potentially
unreliable means of connection to his or her readership.
For the everyday user, this would result in slower, reduced
quality access to smaller (read: most) websites, and normal
speed access to major websites that are able to pay for it. H.R.

3458 has been introduced to prevent ISPs from violating the
tenets of net-neutrality.

Proponents of net-neutrality believe the ramifications
of this tiered system would be dire for consumers and a
death-blow to the democratic nature of the internet. And,
to a certain extent, they are right. Over Winter Break, my
parents contemplated switching their TV service from Time
Warner to satellite, and they hopped on their Time Warner
Cable internet connection to check out DirectT V’s website.
If a tiered system were implemented, Time Warner could
potentially prevent my parents from accessing its competitor’s
webpages, DirectT V included. Consumers would be further
hurt by those websites that pay for a higher tier connection,
as the extra cost would undoubtedly be translated into
subscription fees for webpage content.

On the flip side, critics of net-neutrality, and specifically
of H.R. 3458, argue that net-neutrality is an unnecessary
government intervention into the private sector. After all, ISPs
have to recoup infrastructure and upgrade costs, and they can
recover these funds from subscribers however they see fit.
If consumers don’t like the practices of their ISP, they are
free to vote with their wallet and switch to a service provider
that does not operate on a tiered system. For many of these
skeptics, net-neutrality is a made up issue to begin with; ISPs
already police the data travelling through their networks in an
attempt to prohibit high-speed connections to users pirating
software through peer-to-peer programs like Limewire or
BitTorrent, and the average user is largely satisfied with their
service. In fact, many users experience better connection
speeds through the monitoring and redistribution of data-
flow. In some people’s minds, H.R. 3458 could threaten an
ISP’s ability to guard against piracy and provide high-quality
service.

In reality, both parties are operating on some problematic
assumptions. Proponents for net-neutrality are, I believe,
right in railing against a tiered system of access. Because

a broadband ISP will often operate as a monopoly within a.

region, consumers simply do not have the ability to vote with
their wallet and switch service providers. At the same time,
ISPs should be able to control their networks in response to
illegal activities and to-provide a better overall experience for
their users. H.R. 3458, if passed into law, could revolutionize
what has become a critical resource for millions of Americans,
and Davidson students would do well to contribute to the
national discussion surrounding net-neutrality.

Bryan Norris ’10 is a political science major from
Charlotte, NC. Contact him at brnorris@davidson.edu.

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 27, 2010

ae

but Be erty 1 ‘in New Ole sa

BEB REE OB Sy

_the two Geova similar, Fy ioe: that 48: the unprecedent

Bhi. SB lhe ae

FOES Sere tte ci Biel hn,

“rniti’s fature Pont promising than it’ 8 past, The s sam
goes for New Orleans, ir

