4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

On Monday, theologian Shane Claiborne
delivered Davidson’s annual Staley Lecture,
speaking on “Radical Community: Celebrat-
ing Jesus’ Prophetic Imagination.” Campus
chaplain Rob Spach welcomed the audience
to the event, explaining that the Staley Lec-
ture Series was endowed in 1970 by Thomas
Staley °24, who wanted to use his resources
to créate opportunities “to further the evan-
gelical witness of the Christian church.” Jes-
sica Degelhausen ’11, one of the organizers
of the lecture, then introduced Claiborne.

The best-selling author of five books,
including “Follow Me To Freedom: Lead-
ing and Following as an Ordinary Radi-
cal,” which was published by Regal Books
in 2009, Claiborne is also the founder of the
Simple Way, an intentional faith community
in Philadelphia, Pennsylyania.

Claiborne began his talk with an anec-:

dote from his recent travels, when a fellow
airplane passenger asked what he did for a
living. Claiborne explained that when he said
he was a preacher, his neighbor joked, “They
must not make preachers like they used to.”

News
Staley lecture brings radical theologian Shane Claiborne

—_,

Claiborne said that the man then began to talk
about a current apocalypse, and Claiborne
commented that although he “may have been
reading too many Tim LaHay books,” “I do
think these are interesting times we.are liv-
ing in.”

“People are saying, ‘Maybe there’s a dif-
ferent dream other than the American dream,”
he continued. “We’re invited to have a new
imagination about the world we live in.”

Claiborne’s suggestion of imagination
echoes his emphasis on creativity in the
Christian faith and way of life. He said that
Jesus’ creativity allowed him to “transcend
the questions” of his detractors.

Demonstrating his point with a reading
from Luke chapter seven, Claiborne said,
“Jesus is always fascinating people with his

love,” adding that Jesus-was “rarely forcing -

that down their throat.”

Next, Claiborne contrasted this gentle
approach with a recent study in which non-
Christians were asked to name their impres-
sions of Christians. The top three answers
were that Christians were anti-homosexual,
judgmental and hypocritical. “We have a
little bit of an image crisis, and much of it
is very well deserved,” he said. “We want a

Christianity that reminds the world of Jesus
again.”

Turning his attention to the widespread
emphasis many religious leaders place on
doctrine, Claiborne said, “I think the things
we believe are important,” but what is more
important is “the way our beliefs work them-
selves out in love and action.”

Claiborne then cited Matthew chapter
25, in which Jesus asks his disciples a se-
ries of questions about their good deeds on
earth. Claiborne pointed out that these ques-
tions are not issues of doctrine, but of action.
‘What are these peculiar marks of God’s holy
counter-culture?” Claiborne asked.

He compared this radicalism with the
lifestyle practiced by the Amish. “Their
seeming irrelevance is seeming more and
more relevant to our world, he said, remind-
ing the audience of the Amish community’s
response to the school shooting in 2006. “It
fascinated the world with grace,” he said.

Claiborne then began a discussion about
the attitudes that have proven to be core val-
ues in his community, The Simple Way. “We
are the move ourselves closer to suffering,
rather than away from it,” he said, explaining
their decision to settle in a dangerous neigh-

——

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2010

borhood of Philadelphia.

He explained that the community shares
their economic resources according to the
model of the early church. “They ended pov-
erty because they had this reckless vision that
they were born again,” he said. “We’re not
talking about an ‘ism’ but an economy that is
rooted radically in love.” In a world of love,
Claiborne said, “Marxism won’t be neces-
sary and capitalism as we know it won’t be
possible.”

He then stressed the importance of diver-
sity and racial reconciliation for the Chris-
tian faith, citing an example of Mexican and
American Christians who meet at a border
wall to worship together, tossing communion
over the boundary.

Claiborne then elaborated on the Chris-
tian responsibility of environmental stability,
warning the audience to resist theologies that
do not value caring for creation. “Bringing
dead things to life and making ugly things
beautiful is part of what God is,” he said.

The lecture concluded with Claiborne’s
vision of Christianity’s future place in the
world. When people are asked what they
think of Christians, “they will’ say justice,
grace, peace and compassion. May it be so.”

Wal-Mart, from page I

ing interests given contemporary living wage

standards?’ Should the collective societal °

good Wal-Mart achieves trump any analysis
of whether the company pays adequate wag-
es and proper benefits?”

According to Christian ethicists, the
answer is no. “The highest consideration
should be given to the value and respect of
the individual,” Harmon said. “Distinguish-
ing between individual and social welfare
safeguards the dignity of the individual and
helps to protect against the denigration of
ethical analysis to a form crass utilitarianism.
A Christian examination of Wal-Mart’s wage
practices should therefore look at uphold-
ing the individual dignity of each employee,
rather than simply the broad maximization of
social benefits.”

The average full-time hourly wage rate at:

Wal-Mart is about $11 per hour. Its average
starting salary is about seven dollars per hour.
However, only about 60 percent of Wal-Mart
workers qualify as full-time employees. And
even these full-time employees earn only
about $17,600 per year on average.

Another approach Harmon used to assess
the fairness of Wal-Mart’s wages had to do
with measuring what percent of associates’
incomes was applied toward healthcare
costs. “In an embarrassing memo that
was leaked to the press in 2005, the ex-
ecutive of Wal-Mart’s people division
admitted that ‘On average, associates
spend about 8 percent of their income
on healthcare for themselves and their
family’ — nearly twice the national av-
erage,” Harmon said.

“Judging these figures against the
Christian conception of a living wage,
the salary Wal-Mart pays its workers
falls short of the mark,” she continued.
“Clearly, the current wage rate does
not honor Wal-Mart’s workers’ person-
al development, and it stifles their par-
ticipation as individuals in society.”

Using an online “Living Wage Cal-
culator” Harmon was able to examine
living wage estimates for thousands of
communities across the country. She
found that the current wage Wal-Mart
pays its employees in Charlotte, for ex-
ample, falls well below the benchmark
the living wage calculator listed for
this community. Additionally, a newly
hired Wal-Mart employee can expect
to earn only about $3,000 more than
the current abject poverty standard for
an individual.

From this analytical approach,

Harmon reiterated that the dignity of an in-
dividual and his or her needs must outweigh
any benefit society reaps as a whole. “Not-
ing the disparity between living wage stan-
dards and Wal-Mart employee salaries, any
societal good that the company delivers in
the form of lower prices does not justify
its underpayment of its workers,” she said.

“At the heart of religious resistance lies the -

fundamental Christian conviction that social
forces that exploit individual dignity in the
name of business violate God’s will.”

A study conducted at the University of
California-Berkley found that “not only is
the Christian conception of a just wage spiri-
tually desirable, it-is economically feasible
as well. If Wal-Mart unilaterally increased
all employee’s pay to $10 per hour, even if
Wal-Mart passed on these increases in wages
entirely to the consumer in the form of price
mark-ups (an unlikely occurrence), this
would translate to a mere price increase of
$1.47 per shopping trip.”

From this perspective, the amount Wal-
Mart would have to increase its prices in or-
der to pay workers a living wage would be
virtually negligible and would thus not hurt
the welfare of society. Furthermore, if Wal-
Mart instituted these wage increases, “this

would make healthcare coverage for all em-
ployees a feasible option,” Harmon said.

Wal-Mart’s current healthcare policies
emphasize their coverage of crisis care over
preventative care. But from a Christian eth-
ics perspective, Harmon argued, “Christians
should not view critical and preventative
care as competing choices. In light of this
appreciation for both preventative and crisis
care treatment, an evaluation of Wal-Mart’s
current health insurance philosophy exposes
the ethical problems associated with its cur-
rent plan. Wal-Mart fails to meet a Christian
standard in that the corporation essentially
drops preventative care out of the healthcare
equation.”

A separate issue complicating the analy-
sis of ethical wages has to do with how many
people one person’s wage is supporting. Har-
mon noted that many laborers work to sup-
port not only themselves but family depen-
dents as well. This brings the idea of a family
living wage into the discussion. However,
the adoption of such a wage would nearly
double the figure Wal-Mart would have to
pay its employees.

Harmon presented several options that
would make the family living wage “a sort
of moral target — a wage that allows for a de-

Discover where you'll study abroad at usac.unr.edu

cent livelihood and respects the sanctity of
personhood incorporates the realization that
people have social needs to be part of fam-
ily structure,” she said. “While Christians
rightly recognize the economic infeasibility
of a living wage that supports ‘a family, re-
gardless of the number of dependents,’ this
does not mean that the target of a wage that
compensates beyond an individual should be
abandoned. As Christians fight for wage jus-
tice, they will necessarily encounter the ten-
sion between norms and ideals.”

Harmon concluded that “believers can
reasonably ascertain that the current wage
rate does not adequately meet a Christian
standard. The intractable problem of limited
financial and medical resources and unlim-
ited claims on such resources makes explain-
ing away all tension virtually impossible.”

Following her presentation, Harmon
opened a forum for questions in which she
explained, “Wal-Mart is very effective any
time there is any sort of collaboration” by
workers to protest their wages. “They shut it
down right away, so there really hasn’t been
any sort of collective bargaining. Most of the
headway that people have made has come
from outside organizations like Christian-
based groups.”

UNIVERSITY y EN
STUDIES , ae
ABROAD wy
CONSORTIUM

LEAT SCS
Your Gaterrary tte (orth.
