THE DAVIDSONIAN

PERSPECTIVES

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010 9

Party politics must take a backseat

“We have never been just
a collection of individuals or a
collection of Red States and Blue
States. We are and always will be
the United States of America.” Over
Davidson’s holiday break, I had the
great opportunity to travel with the
Davidson Jazz Band and Symphony
Orchestra through North and South
Carolina, Georgia, and Florida,
stopping for gigs in numerous towns
along the way. Some stops were in
major cities like Sarasota and Ft. Lauderdale while others
were in small towns like Ocala and Arcadia. During the
course of our week on the road, I met of all sorts of people
with many viewpoints. There is no doubt in my mind that we
-are, and will remain, united as the United States of America.
It is safe to say that every student at Davidson has taken
a class in American History at some point in his or her
career, whether it be in college or grade school. Assuming
the aforementioned, everyone at Davidson would know that
in his farewell address upon retiring from the Presidency,
George Washington warned us that we should not assume
political parties would keep the states united. Nowadays,
as we stare the hyper-partisan political environment in the
face and work to resolve a series of national crises, it is more
important than ever that our leaders remember that the fiber
of our country remains united. It is more important than ever
that they remember the warning of George Washington some
and realize that if the people whom they represent can reach
respectful compromise in discussion, they should as well.
Over the break, I wondered if the gigantic influence of
political parties over our legislators is really good for America,
and I have found myself thinking that party influence takes
away from the sincerity of our leaders. Political parties are

On Politics

Scott MattHews

heard. Still, parties should not dictate political strategy or be
the reason why a member of Congress is unwilling to work
with his or her colleague of opposing viewpoints to reach
mutually satisfactory agreements. Furthermore, it is not the
role of the political parties to dominate, eliminate or seek the
destruction of the opponent; party members must remember
that they exist historically to complement each other, to draw
out the best ideas within opposing viewpoints.

Ultimately, it is unfortunate that today’s two parties and
their leaders find themselves unable to get out of their all-or-
nothing positions. It is a shocking and unfortunate reality that
the Republicans in particular can work to block the entire
Democratic agenda, without passing any alternative legislation
of their own, and yet come out in a better political position
than they did after the 2008 elections. The Democrats are no
better, as they too are trying to muscle through legislation
without agreeing to several positive Republican ideas. In the
end, one party is no better than the other:and, in order to
maximize the beneficial results from the legislation that is
passed by Congress, the members must all work together.

As the 2010 campaigns begin, it is interesting to see
new Officials rising through the ranks of state governments,
all of whom promise to pursue compromise and work with
the other side when in reality none of them actually do.
Politicians can pursue a “bipartisan” agenda only if they can
break out of the party institutions that keep Congressmen in
a headlock. I suppose these thoughts are ultimately an appeal

to respect the institutions of old. There always have been .

partisan issues that face our country and there always will
be. However, not every issue is political. Some are simply for
the national good, and the institutions that compromise our
leaders in turn compromise our nation and must be removed
from the system.

Scott Matthews ’13 is undeclared. He is from Greenwich,
CT. Contact him at samatthews @davidson.edu.

nothing new and, by design, énsure that the minority voice is

The dangers of Democrat health care

RyAN GouGH
Guest Columnist

So the historic health care bill has finally passed the
Senate. After lying behind the Majority Leader’s closed
doors for over a month and buying off dozens of Senators,
the Senate legislation will be whisked away to a special
committee where it will be joined with the House bill and
rushed to the floor for another party-line vote. Indeed,
the only historical aspect of the Senate bill is that it is the
largest and most unpopular piece of legislation ever to be
rammed through a house of Congress on a straight party-
line vote. Naturally, the President immediately praised this
“unprecedented achievement” — unprecedented indeed.

This latest fiasco means that every major piece of
legislation that has passed either house of Congress in 2009
was crammed, jammed, pushed, prodded, bribed and beaten
through on a party-line vote. Mmmmmmm, ...that Hope and
Change sure tastes good! ‘When Joe Scarborough inquired
White House Chief of Staff David Axelrod why the American
people did not support reform, Axelrod.responded that the
American people just don’t understand what is in it.

First, it is difficult for a citizen to know what is in a bill
when the Leader holds it behind closed doors and rushes it to
the floor once all the votes have been secured — especially at
Christmas time. Indeed, I would be impressed if the Senators
that passed the bill know what is in it.

Second, Axelrod’s statement is unbelievably arrogant, and
yet, sadly expected of this administration. Axelrod essentially
said, “The people just don’t know what’s best for them. We
do, and we’ve put it in this bill. This health care bill is best
for Americans, whether they know it or not. If we explained
it to them, they would support it.”

T bet I could explain a lot of things to a lot of people and
they would provisionally support me. That is no argument for
sincere support, however, especially in light of the fact that
composite polls show that less than 40% of Americans want
this “reform,” regardless of what’s in it. Furthermore, it is
impossible to know if the provisions in the bill will work as
envisioned when signed into law; it is no stretch to assert that
passing a 2,000-page bill that no one understands promises
very little. Sure, the provisions may be in there, and Americans
may like the ideas, but God only knows if it’ll work the way
they think it will. Regardless, analysis has shown that even if
it does work, it is economically unsustainable.

The health care debate has been a year-long struggle.
By now, I think the American people know what they are
receiving: health care the Democrats’ way. What does that
mean? Well, no one really knows, but the public does not
like it. In fact, Americans have consistently repudiated the
Democrats’ efforts, and yet they continue to beat the dead

horse, justified, of course, by the phantom “mandate” they

“earned.”

To claim that this bill will concurrently “bend the cost
curve of health care,” “bring down the price of health
insurance,” achieve deficit-neutrality and increase coverage
without increasing taxes on the middie class is more than
misleading. With this bill, it’s impossible.

The health care bill is attempting to slow the rate of growth
of health care costs, but it will not cut health care costs.
Therefore, costs will continue to rise. As a result, insurance
costs will continue to rise, and as they do, more middle
class families will be forced to purchase what qualifies as
“Cadillac Plans” (insurance with a $23,500+/year price tag).
Those plans will have an excise tax. Middle-class families
will be hit in the near future —- so much for that claim.

Achieving deficit-neutrality assumes two things: the
government raises billions in taxes and cuts billions it
Medicare/Medicaid. I have no doubt Congress can achieve
the former, but representatives have already stated the latter
cannot be achieved. If spending is cut, it will be to the
detriment of doctors who can already barely cover costs for
Medicare/Medicaid patients. Thus, private insurance holders
will bear the extra cost, raising prices even higher.

Furthermore, this legislation will lead to increased
government infiltration of the health care market; the current
legislation is merely a foundation to build upon. The Senate
legislation may not have a public option because they can’t
get it now. Just wait.

In order to achieve lower health care costs, we need
immigration reform, tort reform and increased competition
in the marketplace. More importantly, we need to reform
America’s consumption and dietary habits. 34% of
Americans are obese. 33% are overweight. That means 67%
of the population is at a higher risk for heart disease, stroke,
diabetes, some cancers and arthritis. Heart disease, cancer
and stroke are the three leading causes of death in the United
States. A fifth of the nation smokes. We wonder why we
spend more on health care than any nation in the world but
have an age expectancy of 77. The equation is simple: lower
health care costs = diet and exercise.

The federal government, at this moment in time, owes"

$56 trillion in unfunded liabilities, holds a debt six-sevenths
of GDP, and possesses the highest deficit since WWII.
Medicare will be bankrupt in a decade, as will Social Security.
We are merely perpetuating an. unsustainable status-quo
and exacerbating an economic catastrophe by allowing this

“reform” effort to continue. Davidson College boasts New ~
Ivy status, full of intelligent and driven students who will

lead tomorrow’s battles. ] challenge you to lead on this issue.
Call your representatives today.

Ryan Gough ’10 is ‘a political science major from
Elizabethton, TN. Contact him at rygough @davidson.edu.

Hocal liquor Se s this the. standard. of accountability
‘Ahat North Carolina wishes to hold. our ‘eivil servants?

_dusiness odel. In more than one, instance I have seen, a
€. tom. down, and scbinle in th

efrom the incentives created by free: market competition,
* Privatization, of, Tiquor.- ‘sales’ “would.” ‘provide - “broader.
_ opportunity. “for state fevenue and bring convenience. and
i flexibility to, the consumers while removing the ; potential

“Through the: implementation of state and. local taxes S. On
“the sale of Tiquor, I have no doubt that: a privatized systen

_remain. "Governor Perdue and state e legislative leaders have.
promised to take-a hard look-at reforming t the system. Let

4

“us hold them accountable: ‘to, their promise, ote 18- time. to

a Wilmington, NC. Contact him at srjonas@odavidson edu. ' .
