THE DAvVIDSONIAN

News

WEpnespay, FEBRUARY 10, 2010 3

Student, expert panel explores influence of hip-hop

KatigE VOEGTLI
Staff Writer

The Pi Mu chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi
and the Black Student Coalition recently co-
sponsored a panel discussion about hip-hop,
a salient feature of American culture. The
hip-hop movement began in the late 1970s,
the result of musical experimentation by Af-
rican-American and Jamaican-American disc
jockeys in the Bronx. The new genre quickly
spread across the country and has now diver-
sified to include artists from Snoop Dogg to
Wale to Eminem.

In a tribute to the cultural significance of
hip-hop, President Barack Obama recently
remarked, “The thing about hip hop today is
it’s smart, it’s insightful. The way they can
communicate a complex message in a very
short space is remarkable.”

To be, sure, the industry has enjoyed its
praises and glories, but some worry that the
creativity of artists has waned in recent years.
Last week, panelists explored issues from the
cultural meaning of hip-hop to its controver-
sial effects on youth in America.

Panelists included Theresa Dickson ’13,
Joshua Arthur ’12, Imani Bowen °10, and

i

Kwain Bryant, a program developer and Student panel members discuss the culture and effects of hip-hop during last week’s panel discussion.

training specialist with Empowerment Ex-
change. Each of the panelists lauds hip-hop
as a steady source of inspiration and empow-
erment. Affirming the constructive effects
of hip-hop, Dickson shared her own special
connection to Kanye West’s album “The Col-
lege Dropout,” which offered her a message
of courage and freedom that forever changed
her life.

Many celebrate hip-hop as a medium that
allows for the artistic expression of oppres-
sion and poverty. Otherwise invisible frustra-
tions and wounds are bared to society, pro-
voking thought and demanding action. Al-
though groups like N.W.A.—a group known
for their explicit and controversial lyrics—
may be labeled as offensive, Bryant pointed
out that they simply depicted what they saw
as true in their own lives. Hip-hop artists are

disqualification, t no matter how. mi-
nor or major the offence is”? The person who.
gave | Rathore the probation h had “no authorit

fied after making his transgression known a/ + ge steps to reform the~ ee process,
¥ week before;Zwieryznski responded that the | eBovieryanski declared. that actions are being
»- made to. “make the process more transparent

Beuaton was handled this way: “for two rea.

d squality “Rathore,: no. announcement» was
made oem the status of his: candidac

that the decision to not reveal the disquali-

fication was made because the jransgréssion ..

something,” one =.
2 ae ae Elections oGouneil and a

A fter Rathore went public with hi i sinuation, 2
SL Ahink the

thore. w:

his disquali

It Pare kno F whethier ¢ or not |

leading in the election prior to ig are working to fix them.

not afraid to express raw passion in lyrics
like 50 Cent’s warning, “Right now I’m on
the edge / So don’t push me.” Such words
give voice to the emotions of thousands.

The discussion also touched on racial is-
sues in America and the color barriers that
exist within the African-American popula-
tion. In “Shades,” Wale proclaimed, “I never
fit in with them light skins / I thought the
lighter they was, the better they life is / So
I resented them / And they resented me.”
Bowen suggested that beauty and privilege
continue to be equated with whiteness. After
all, “red bones,” or light-skinned women, are
more able to “pass” as white.

Hip-hop was praised for its insightful
commentary on the unfortunate continuance
of traditional, culturally imposed notions of

isque lification. The survey system that
the school uses for voting has the. same link

+forall elections, meaning that each time there
ods a new election, the results of the old elec-

fions. are: erased.’ ‘Since there: Was. a run-off

race are unknown. Furthermore, John Mer:
ill said, “We [the Elections Couneil do n

and re sponsive,” 21n the name oft teform, three

>with “disqualification,” ‘Dean ‘Shandley’ aid,
The ie biggest issue i in all of thisis that thet

‘ee De

beauty. Once again, the music voiced ten-
sions that might otherwise remain unvoiced.

Despite the redemptive qualities of hip-
hop, critics complain that the often profane
lyrics shamelessly. glorify violence, misog-
yny and drug abuse. Does responsibility for
the graphic content of many hip-hop songs
fall on the consumers who buy them or the
artists who produce them? Arthur argued that,
according to the basic principles of business,
the consumers make the ultimate decisions.

Panelists also pointed out that parents bear
ultimate responsibility for promoting posi-
tive values and for controlling the music to
which their children are exposed.

In the past decades, hip-hop has touched
many lives. Despite the difficulties of navigat-
ing the coming years, the art form will surely
adapt and continue to fulfill its mission. As
Doug E. Fresh says, “Hip-hop is supposed
to uplift and create, to educate people ona .
larger level, and to make a change.”

