4 THE DAVIDSONIAN

- ~~“

News

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 20, 2010

Studio art majors showcase works in Smith Gallery

CAROLINE Woop
News Editor

Last Friday, the opening reception for “A

Subtle Sanity,” a collection of paintings by -

Grant Clark ’10, kicked off a semester-long
series of student art shows. Each week, the
Edward M. Smith gallery of the Belk Visual
Arts Center will host the work of one of the
senior art majors of the class of 2010.

Clark said that he did receive some
strong criticism at the reception, especially
in regards to his decision not to offer an art-
ist’s statement, a written explanation of the
ideas and processes behind his pieces. He
explained that much of the theory behind his
work involves a subconscious level of choice
and the artist’s reaction to those choices. He
summed up his thoughts with a quotation
from the painter Paul Gauguin: “Understand-
ing later, feeling now.” .

Clark suggested that much of the pressure

Kania, from page 1

ing this economic downtum, we hit 60% last
year.”

Kania noted that the college also has the
support of the Duke Endowment, a resource
available to only three other colleges. To
date, the Duke Endowment has pledged over
$15 million to the Davidson Trust and con-
tinues to support the college in many other
ways. The Davidson Trust was introduced in
2007 and replaces student loans with grants.
Davidson was the first liberal arts college
in the country to guarantee that no student
would graduate with financial debt as a result
of funding a college education.

“The college has raised and will continue
to raise monies from its generous donors and
from philanthropic organizations like the
Duke Endowment to fund the cost of the Da-
vidson Trust,” Kania said. “This fundraising
is focused on monies that may be spent to
cover costs in the short-term and gifts to the
college’s endowment that will support the
Trust in perpetuity.

“We keep the student experience here in-
sulated from the economy,” Kania explained.
“It’s not that we’re not making some chang-
es, but we want the fact that the market’s not
doing well to not have an impact on the ex-
cellence of the education students get here.
When we make budget cuts we think about
that a lot’ What can we cut, what can we
do more efficiently, how can we spend less
money on things that aren’t as important to
the student experience?”

Such cuts have been made in travel and
by hosting more in-house retreats led by
Davidson’s own professors and staff as op-
posed to more expensive off-campus experi-
ences. Davidson also worked with other col-
leges and professional organizations to try to
save money by purchasing together in larger
amounts.

In order to specifically address the eco-
nomic downturn, Davidson’s financial lead-
ership instituted a 2.5% budget cut in the
2008-2009 school year and a 3% budget cut
for 2009-2010. Additionally, there were no
salary increases for the 2009-2010 school
year, which is consistent with other colleges
and universities across the country.

“We are also considering an additional
1% budget cut for the year ending June ‘30,
2011,” Kania said. “Going forward, we will
continue to Iook at ways to reduce or real-
locate budgeted expenses to support the mis-.
sion of the college and to enable the college
to finance the priorities contained in the col-
lege’s Strategic Plan, which will be the filter
that we use for evaluating decisions.

“In order to reallocate budget expenses
to free up money to fund the Strategic Plan,
the President has appointed an ad-hoc budget

to provide an artist’s statement grows out of a
cultural climate in which people want a tan-
gible meaning for works of art, and feel the
need to contextualize their own experiences
viewing art. Clark said he hopes to encour-
age a more “primal” level of response, in
which viewers question themselves on their
emotional and visceral reactions to pieces.

This pressure has also affected Clark’s
decisions in titling his work. Two of the
paintings showcased in “A Subtle Sanity”
are left “Untitled,” which incited criticism
from some viewers. Clark said that he would
have preferred to leave more of his works
untitled, but that he chose to title them to
avoid distressing or confusing his viewers.
Clark agreed that a title can provide an im-
portant foothold for viewers who might oth-
erwise not know where to begin approaching
a painting.

Clark explained that his ten-foot paint-
ing “Full Moon” was completed during fi-

committee of faculty and staff representa-
tives to examine all areas of the college’s fi-
nances,” he continued. “There are currently
21 teams of faculty and staff responsible for
developing implementation plans for each of
the college’s main strategic objectives. The
work: of the committees will be used to esti-
mate what each objective will cost, and those
estimates will inform future budget: reduc-
tions and reallocations. Both a comprehen-

' sive campaign and budget cuts will be uti-

lized to help pay for these objectives.
“When you have a bad economy, the
temptation that people have is to focus on
the short-term,” Kania cautioned. “The tim-
ing of our strategic plan is perfect. We are
focused both on the Davidson of the present
and the Davidson of the future. We’re going
to be well served by that so we come out of a

“T want to support the Da-
vidson Trust’s objective of
making a Davidson educa-
tion available to all quali-
fied students regardless of
their socioeconomic
backgrounds.”
-Ed Kania

strategic plan into a capital campaign with a
good sense of who we are and who we want
to become.”

Both students and professors can help
play a role in improving college finances,
Kania noted. “Our students can help save
money by focusing on being green through
recycling, turning off lights, and limiting
their use of paper by printing and copying
responsibly.

“The quality of our faculty attracts amaz-
ing students to Davidson College, so it is
vital that they continue to provide excellent
teaching and mentoring for students within
and beyond the classroom regardless of
the economic environment,” he continued.
“Also, the faculty can and do maintain their
focus on responsible use of Davidson’s re-
sources, so that the college can achieve its
most important strategic initiatives.”

Outside of his professional responsibili-
ties to the college, Kania has also been in-
volved with the Leadership Davidson pro-
gram.

“T was fortunate to serve as a co-leader
with Julia Jones during the 2008-09 academic
year,” he said. “Ms. Jones and Dean Shand-
ley asked. me to serve because I have twice
been a mentor in the program and because
they know how much I enjoy opportunities

nals week of his junior year. “That’s another
reason for the title of the show” he said. “I
nearly went insane.”

Clark is one of two candidates for honors
in the Studio Art major; he and Rachel Marks
710 each had a fall show displaying their
works. Clark explained that his experience
putting together his fall show was invalu-
able in preparing for his show this semester.
“The student art show is the one aspect of
Davidson’s art major that is geared towards
professional preparation rather than graduate
school,” he said. “The show forces you to do
everything you would have to do to put on a
show once you graduate.”

Six of Clark’s 11 paintings have already
sold to students, faculty and friends. Ranging
from $45 to $550, the prices of the works just
cover the price of the materials and supplies.
Clark said that several visiting artists ap-
proached him at his show to tell him that he
was selling his work too cheaply. Although he

to interact with and encourage Davidson’s
amazing students, within and beyond the
confines of my job responsibilities.”

Kania also enjoys traveling with his fam-
ily, photography, mentoring, reading and the-
ater.

Kania came to Davidson in 1990 as Col-
lege Controller after working at the Charlotte
architectural firm Clark Tribble Harris & Li.
“T wanted a position in a financially stable
institution that would be challenging and
would allow me to make a difference,” he
explained. “I was excited by the way the mis-
sion of the college was and is in alignment
with my passion for education.”

and a friendly atmosphere.

public service.

Contact Stetson Law today:
(877) LAW-STET
lawadmit@law.stetson.edu
www.law.stetson.edu
facebook.com/StetsonLaw

e* 0e@@ ¢

available to answer questions and to meet with you to
talk about career goais (or life in general). My fellow
classmates are not competitors, but friends. People
work hard, but they respect and support each other.”

Earn your law degree in a balanced
environment with the nation’s #l-ranked
advocacy program, outstanding professors

Through its full-time and part-time
programs, Stetson prepares lawyers through
practical experience, leadership training and

"The academics are rigorous, but professors are always

~» Sarah Hanafin, 2L

admitted that the prices reflect the minimum
he could ask for the pieces, Clark explained
that the market is too difficult for students to
find buyers for higher-priced works.

The next exhibit will display the work of
Andy Knauss ’10. The show, which opens on
January 22, will be called “Endgames” and
deals in part with the themes and questions of
the biblical book of Revelations. Clark said
that the show will be a “complete 180” from
his own. A reception will take place January
25 at 3:00 p.m.

The semester will proceed with roughly
one show a week from the nine remaining
Studio Art majors: Galen Bradley, Mary Ean-
narino, Alice Grant, Alex Hernandez, Chris
Kennedy, James Knowles, Rachel Marks,
Emily Mehta and Emily Miller. Visitors
throughout the semester can expect a wide
array of works in a variety of media, from
sculpture to drawing, as well as a broad range
of artistic and thematic concerns.

Kania continues to remain enthusiastic
about his decision to work at Davidson. “I
value living in a community based on honor
and servant. leadership in which everyone is
excited about lifelong learning,” he said: “I
believe that a liberal arts education is more
important than ever in navigating a complex
world, and I want to support the Davidson
Trust’s objective of making a Davidson
education available to all qualified students
regardless of their socioeconomic back-
grounds. Most of all, I want to continue to do
all I can to assist our students, faculty, staff
and alumni in their efforts to make our world
a better place.”

