2 THE DAVIDSONIAN

Elections, from page 1

the importance of standing up for her con-
stituents. “I am dedicated and committed,”
she said. “I’m a fighter.” She continued, “I
want everything to be open. I want to start an
initiative where more people come to SGA
meetings.”

Hubbard was slightly more aggressive
about his approach. Explaining that he loves
to talk with administrators, he said, “I love to
be personable and get in their face and shake
hands and have fun.” If opposed by adminis-
trators, he promised to help the campus “rally

“I am dedicated and
committed. I’m a fighter.”

-Rayna McKenzie ’ 11

and fight them.”

McCann also promised to be faithful to
student wishes. “I am not the trustees’ presi-
dent,” she said. She mentioned that she has
worked with administrators on a number
of projects, including the Bank of America
Global Energy Conference, for which she
worked with College Communications and
other administrators.

Willis then questioned candidates on how
they plan to motivate SGA members to be ac-
tive in their roles. Hubbard said, “One thing
I would hope to do is bond SGA from the
get-go.” He suggested that a past problem
has been a few members “running the con-
versation.”

McCann emphasized the importance of
personal communication. “If you can get
people personaily interested, that is the way
to get things done,” she said. McKenzie said

—_— ad

News

Fob ull

_

she would be clear in delegating responsi-
bilities, promising that senators would know
exactly what they are supposed to be doing
in any given timeframe. “Without that drive,
there is no commitment,” she said.

Willis then asked the candidates to name
their first policy initiative if elected. Mc-
Cann cited “campus improvements to ensure
that every student is getting the things they

“T want to bring
improvements you can
actually see.”

-Kevin Hubbard ’11

need,” focusing on study space. McKenzie
named “staff and faculty relations,” stating
that she was “really concerned” about the
state of relationships on campus. She sug-
gested the inauguration of appreciation days
as one way of alleviating this problem. Hub-
bard returned to his CatCard plan, saying that
he would immediately go to Ruth French to

“If you can get people per-
sonally interested, that is the
way to get things done.”

-Kayla McCann ’11

begin ironing out the details of the Harris
Teeter arrangements.

The next question focused on how can-
didates would go about choosing students
to fill SGA roles. McKenzie stated that she
would work on gauging individual interests,
while McCann said that it was imperative

Abernethy Endowment

Again this year, funds from the George L. Abernethy
Endowment will be available to support worthy
initiatives by current first-year, sophomore, or junior
students. [It is possible for us to fund a senior who
expents to complete all research work prior to
graduation.] Individual awards fall into one of the
following categories:

1) Independent student research in the humanities or
social sciences, either in the US or abraod.

|2) Cross-cultural sstudy opportunities for students
during the academic year or the summer.

[At the request of the donor, applications are limited to
projects that fall within the humanities and social

sciences.]

Application forms are available at
http://inside.davidson.edu/committees/faculty/Fac
ulty%20Forms/Forms/Alltems.aspx or in the Office
of the Vice President for Academic Affairs (Chambers
1283). Completed application forms are due back in
this office no later than 5:00 p.m. on Thursday,
February 25, 2010. The announcement of awards
should occur prior to the exam period of the spring

semester.

to develop networks of students in order to
“look to the people we know to find the peo-
ple they know.”

Hubbard said, “I have a lot of friends in a
lot of different social groups, so I think it will
be easy” to find good candidates.

Candidates then faced a question about
Davidson’s relationship with the town. Hub-
bard said that he wanted to return good feel-
ings to the level of the high achieved during
the NCAA tournament two years ago.

“T would try to facilitate that, maybe con-
tact the leaders of the town,” he said. Mc-
Cann stated that “the key is proving to the
community that each one of us is a truly good
person” through community service organi-
zations. McKenzie focused on the impor-
tance of “specialized events on campus for
members of the town,” like a Senior Citizen
ball and a campus auction.

The Davidsonian
is currently seeking
editorial staff.

Students with experience
working on campus
publications are encouraged
to apply. Please contact
Caroline (cawood) or Kelsey

(kelilley) for deadlines
and details.

ot interested in editing, but have questions abou
writing for News? Contact cawood or kelilley.

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2010

When the moderators had exhausted
their questions, the floor turned to questions
submitted by the audience. The first was a
particularly challenging question about the
Alcohol Task Force, to which Hubbard re-
plied, “I don’t believe that making a bunch
of rules and regulations and having cops go
around...is good for Davidson.” All candi-
dates stressed the need for a safe drinking
environment.

Other questions from the audience ad-
dressed course shortages and policy initia-
tives that require extension or correction.
While the debate lasted less than an hour,
the three candidates demonstrated significant
differences of opinion about the drinking cul-
ture on campus, as well as the best ways of
dealing with administrators and constituents,
while still highlighting their mutual concern
for the welfare of Davidson students.

